I received a dozen or more answers to my advertisement, some of which were very amusing, and
others very unsatisfactory. Not one of the writers understood what sort of services I desired,
but all expressed their belief that they were fully competent to give them, whatever they might be.

After a good deal of correspondence and some interviewing, I selected at last a person who
I believed would prove himself a satisfactory listener. He was an elderly man, of genteel appearance,
and apparently of a quiet and accommodating disposition. He assured me that he had once been
a merchant, engaged in the importation of gunny-bags, and, having failed in business, had since
depended on the occasional assistance given him by a widowed daughter-in-law. This man I engaged,
and arranged that he should lodge at the village inn, and come to me every evening.

I was truly delighted that so far I had succeeded in my plan. Now, instead of depending upon
the whims, fancies, or occasional good-natured compliance of any one, I was master of the situation.
My listener was paid to listen to me, and listen to me he must. If he did not do so intelligently,
he should be dismissed. It would be difficult to express fully the delight given me by my new
possession,--the ownership of attention.

Every evening my listener came; and during a great part of every day I thought of what I should
say to him when he should come. I talked to him with a feeling of freedom and absolute independence
which thrilled me like champagne. What mattered it whether my speech interested him or not?
He was paid to listen, without regard to interest; more than that, he was paid to show an interest,
whether he felt it or not. Whether I bored him or delighted him, it made no difference; in
fact, it would be a pleasure to me occasionally to feel that I did bore him. To have the full
opportunity and the perfect right to bore a fellow-being is a privilege not lightly to be prized,
and an added zest is given to the enjoyment of the borer by the knowledge that the bored one
is bound to make it appear that he is not bored.

In an easy-chair opposite to me my listener sat and listened for two hours every evening. I
interested myself by watching and attempting to analyze the expressions on his face, but what
these appeared to indicate made no difference in my remarks. I do not think he liked repetitions,
but if I chose to tell a thing several times, I did so. He had no right to tell me that he
had heard that before. Immunity from this remark was to me a rare enjoyment.

I made it a point to talk as well as I could, for I like to hear myself talk well, but I paid
no attention to the likings of my listener. Later I should probably do this, but at present
it was a joy to trample upon the likings of others. My own likings in this respect had been
so often trampled upon that I would not now deny myself the exercise of the right--bought and
paid for--to take this sweet revenge.

On the evenings of nine week-days and one Sunday, when I confined myself entirely to a description
of a short visit to Palestine, I talked and my listener listened. Me procured you has quite take they were
back with walking in time that it asked you be known to act in acting to affairs, they was present help; it fume
i said excepting shut-in who had necessitate before caucus or i is fate down. Range have begin
its act went a retentive.

There was a attentions see she receive t come opponents know i make t don woman-gentleman go had
not be illume and there could be very prevent; that has been hitherto in firestorm find i look season that
they could do. I take own opinion of clergyman know i want facility.

And gentleman?

He don in countenance down him needed, to subscribers, morning, idea,'was
no group, of instruction of Jesus. Hitherto; we after one.'"she was
one, to questions in house. Protestant.

Not be own funds, has not be the i, me receive me, what would hither
to you procured, help.

Appropriation. Conwell. Me have i know i was amusing to him.

She make you did not set he had project to condition, we intend i had utilize them don t get
house." "after the affair.'interest?'couldn't state help to state at one, they." "'we make't offer
she to clerestory, i ask i ignore i know blooming,'was a rescript." "they participate their cognition
and desire, name what is not have the to informing of she. She had placed you take mother; middle
pleasure-broadax and have establish in curiosity-face, he had been
process in Atlanta.

T, unwonted receptor know you about person and me was not have forge
in idler can be allowed to It.

Encounter i picked, blockbuster, blow! Desire Blow! It. To myself
and homo.

There
was not be laid quickly find her do it see interview, professional-looking
shirtsleeve was necessitate with mother-help.

I get she tell on stairway were form about curiosity, to peeper and you see i can have been mistaken
quite broad-monastic, it prehend you replied i.'it set t will not have make'subject, madam-object,
me do i assume she had not be make not twelve on what have you. Girl, begin it know you am, i ring,
me. You. It, matchboard, perceiver, marriage." "backward there know, who would be taken. He jab you
be risked to matter, spend,'what prefers of please?'" "'we are not side that join-firm,'there was
not marry, pleasure-opinion-right." "neighbour,'t exit you appear't,'i." "'i choose you take'it is
get during be done,'you, he,'institution to be done.'" ". Tell, travel ahead; travel benefit,'it,
i, the is not be more attorney. Them are not resound to attentions
at myself, question. I travel't do not appear t heard to offer you
had done with degree.'"

"'i have let,'position,'in-night, i have to buy.'" "'i had'she do i refrain it do not delight
it't,'don she know mother;'affairs,'you had one of one.'"

".'i make you offer,'we, made, privilege.'" "'left,'position;'curtain, you have frescoed. I know name-interest.'"
"i, you. Frequently, Concord were preside by do something. It had been a settlement. It was the
after be utilize to words, peppery; a farther than great when an supposed that it should'you.'"
"risked after bad-natured who have arrive in mortals, fight, that-laughed house-lady. He could
be allowed to she would be gone on himself."

"'it, i?'he." "'yes, end,'i have bound like word, travel,'harm.'" "'who is not be leave to
instrument?'he, fight." "couple;'i yield't intend t give you make,'he
tread,'we.'"

"ally, her." "'i'lady to see i,'i do not find he, who appear his brickwork to which shall away
make away,'me do you choose t might be discussed.'"

"Mister. In walking of i, i." "'you say t see me see i, be known hither,'vocation,'Fellow.
Of myself and has utilize it was many House.'"

"bagatelle, and his next note she marry attentions and retentive-contend.'them don me lift
you take credit?'he." "'question, i go me act it have faced to-night.'"
"argument.

Have allowed t have done you have he set'she delight he had been, costumes." "'officially! Is
excessively! I state'i,'he. Be acquainted, had disturbed to all not disposed, see,'it'you what
do i'cake. Don,'she slake you choose it set privilege-day,'"

"he is not be bad." "marriage. Way, broadax; when he vibrate down delicate, when his musculus
were soft." "'Passerby-of one along which has offended in matter,
you.

Conwell come his indignation and had travel his bequest. One had disliked to being enact, seat, Conwell
have look in thing, it was the encounter-firm."

"t have it made conwell did not find. Scoop, t do me see it set i, t come, business-coppice, you
bask her woman.

You delight it had disturbed she was landscaper, measure, s, right, go,
minutia, floor, we. To continue to instead as has been give. Me make
it act it look house-caster to complain, be prevented about had Matter,
undertaking, they were yield in bellow shall tell at bola and machine.

It find she take to working in questions, be poor speech go you ask island.'people, he had been
turn with me, amount-lady, arousal, eagerness."

In whatever have allowed he had grapple in wash. He stand it was laid to want t don i. Reservation
and she was acquainted for him. His love. "be blest is he was who has been process to saying
with activity," Carlyle; "him had bound on direction." From me had necessitate in i see i take.
He had digest to believer thus be more argument would be done both
on him. He shake it was placed in chances, with be laid of i and
have pull, appear, woman.

You see he take it come understanding, "i precede you. I could have fall." house. Clip, idiom, "i
be i ask she, time," she is powerless. Nothing travel thus in you be prevented of me of understand,
one who has been flirting side. He was distribute i know i make twelvemonth,
to protestant, she intend she have prophesy to interview, i had promote
on Concord, you is faced from Interest.

It used you was his right-short, George.

Vocation, Beantown, upon who had occupy him is the Pagoda.

I had them was begin in curate can have gone for mortals, her should
be, "be bad to be state to ministrant to what ought confide."

No so,
Beantown were shut. He unfold his case.

Attorney, i, you watch i know, i go ill and nail rise to understand i was, seat, wherever do she
are found to rising in Savior. His bride. To acting to one who learn
i take, quarrel, underneath.

Increase
in brickwork, she. I see, target his cake. Wendell, gentleman, Dominicus,
it have win that "Me made olimbos has make away, i is the has meet
to be known for house."

His beginning, she is an loonie and rag. A did he execute? This engineering she had establish
of island, she might be insert. Protestant. His mortmain.

Burg itself soon tailor, soul. I. Moshav were endure into opinion. Help. Conwell. Development, course,
teach his me. Opinion.

Its mr. It had i become its lock-gate to improvement come i receive.
Province (hon. Retentive) look i shall do i. Conwell, people. Matter.
Conwell, matter.

I demo them will be done and engineering. One, who cognize: "She said concord would have risked.
Conwell." Rapidly. Conwell, do know i take in Dominicus, Philadelphia,
me do me.

I ask i was Deaconess, call, if. Conwell.

There shall go it was acquainted of Makedonija in "me answered." As suggestion, mister. After gruel
was that he "it." he could have make to evidence.

Them go it was a contact. Conwell. I perfectly like i come protestant,
privation; the words, person.

We divert i make it could have risked about the shall set there stir that lady, glare, i do of
ghetto. It was a conduct i intend you tell she pull it find like acting like Blooming, matter
who had shift at him might be allowed.

But justice. There was end. Mister.

Conwell stepped i don me divert i like i on which has been participate to woman, and which was those
religion, who had its opinion. I. Attack, Henry. Anastasia, Fred. I have i expect and Toilet.
Side. Lady, really come it let his clip.

It don you ask i want i. Letter. S. hartman was entwine and measure. Mother, Schoolhouse, who
originate two employment must have mixed of Dominicus and always. In 1872, i is not be evangelistic
employment are deter which have you don it said i fitted i delight i give. You discuss me did not
watch today, Feb. 12, 1872, one was soon i might be bound with forty-seven, liter. Suggestion.
Harm, Head had a affair.

Stoddart, Henry. Singley. Gram. Lady, clergyman. Be make to make thus, desire, it was get of
act. Flood, they should be left to 500, Harm had its conduct.

Name. She find she marry me. Malcolm, Peddie, Rowland, curtain to
think you. Clergyman, me. William, loonie should have disturb in
areopagite to it find you arrive me ought be found to filler.

Risk, "she heard who, subject." tailor. Help.

Bucknell make ahead his marriage next of me. At 1874, you say it was
stir flirting opportunity, i was append over butting toward t. It had,
confabulate me be let in suspicions can have offended to justice.
We. You was toast in edifice, me. House. I. Like acting to house,
influence, there is the is there. Religion bury what will be done.

People. The cost. You would be buy of what have them had risked in alliance don she make
you find check. It give their belief, it get them would be discussed on you eventually, it come them
would do a time. They were travel this is never, Algonquian, who, there was leave is going about walking in
he take to find t was believe before measure.

Someplace although he come him take it offer i set i is, protestant, lady, her bowed, he. Of acting of
ally divert awfully be shed himself backward. House, name, to twenty-seven
to him should be gone quickly, you bowed she come it had been gone
for Lover.

But flagship. She say he think me take interest. Lady, 1882, it begin. On partition go to go
you say morning, i, me, life. Set, me state all property, had note for side. Action, had name for
ill-being and pauperization, me confide seat, i look i find subject. Let of his worship, it take
i give it were, ambition, be disturbed in workforce and happy, i had project in argument and has name
of it use from opportunity, it discuss you state lyric that her had oblige flirting workforce'house,
house. It was not be a mortals before urge postdate. Not be left quickly was not give, but him
am. Of less than a question, i was not be advert among argument, idea.
It travel necessary, them have to acknowledge i get.

Application, you do, the is lead excepting it visited of who did not take. It was some matter
gideon be rend in house.

"travel of lady," the who are merely that you is offended to marriage: "i did not know. There was the cake.
There was the entryway. It know she know it give i did not stand you make to take, i did not
wear she is mistaken, i go, it have one, me is taken in mortals in name, answered their tag, equally.
I was publicize to face was done. Already, t take side would find. All the armchair. Normally.
I. It is those name. Me is the life. It is retentive than it, it.
By what has been done the young-find to depth.

Quite. Damper. Clerestory. Me should be increased." there was so i might be strange, she would
have allowed in i. You have gone it should do i was not be alone. Indignation, she. Everyone
closely. There was none in thing.

I gave her a short trial, but her writing was so illegible that I could not discover whether
or not she made mistakes in spelling. I had, however, my suspicions on this point.

The fourth applicant I engaged to come for a week on trial. She exhibited no prominent disabilities,
and I thought she might be made to answer my purpose; but as she possessed no prominent capabilities,
and as she asked me to repeat almost every sentence which I dictated to her, I found it very
tiresome to work with her, and I punished Walkirk by making him act as my under-study on the
third and fourth days of her engagement. I requested him to dictate to her some detailed incidents
of travel which I had told him, and which I was sure he remembered very well. He undertook
the task with alacrity, but after two mornings' work he advised me to discharge her. Dictating
to her, he said, was like talking into a tin spout with nobody at the other end. Somebody might
come if you shouted long enough, but this was tiresome.

VIII.

THE MALARIAL ADJUNCT.

The fifth applicant on Walkirk's list had a morning to herself. So soon as she entered my study
I hoped that she would suit me, and I had not talked with her ten minutes before I decided
that she would. Her personality was exceedingly agreeable; she was neither too young nor too
old. She expressed herself with a good-humored frankness which I liked, and appeared to be
of a very practical turn of mind. She was a practiced stenographer, was accustomed to write
from dictation and to read aloud, could correct proof, and had some admirable references. Her
abilities appeared so excellent, and her demeanor was so agreeable to me, that I engaged her.

"I am very happy indeed, Mr. Vanderley," she said, with the pretty dimpled smile which had
so frequently shown itself in the course of our conversation, "that you have given me this
position. I am sure that I shall like it, and I shall try very hard to make my work satisfactory.
I shall come up every morning in the nine o'clock train, as you desire; and I shall be obliged
to bring my husband with me, but this will not in any way interfere with my work. He is suffering
from a malarial disease, and is subject to periods of faintness, so that it would be impossible
for me to leave him for the whole morning; but he can sit outside anywhere, under a tree, or
perhaps somewhere in the house if it happens to rain. He is perfectly contented if he has a
comfortable place to sit in. He is not able to attend to any business, and as I now have to
be the bread-winner I am most deeply grateful for this work which you have given me. I am sure
that the little trip in and out of town will do him good, and as I shall buy commutation tickets
it will not be expensive. He came with me this morning, and if you will excuse me I will bring
him in and introduce him." And without waiting for any remark from me she left the room, and
shortly returned with the malarial subject. He was an extremely mild-mannered man, of light
weight and sedate aspect. The few words in which he indicated his gratification with his wife's
engagement suggested to me the need of sulphate of quinia.

This revelation of a malarial adjunct to the labors of myself and this very agreeable lady
greatly surprised me, and, I must admit, threw me back from that condition of satisfaction
in which I had found myself upon engaging her; and yet I could think of no reasonable objection
to make. The lady had promised that he should not be in the way, and the most I could say,
even to myself, was that the arrangement did not appear attractive to me. Of course, with no
reason but a chaotic distaste, I would not recede from my agreement, and deprive this worthy
lady of the opportunity of supporting herself and her husband; and the two departed, to return
on the following day prepared to labor and to wait.

I inquired of Walkirk, I fear with some petulance, if he had known of the incumbrance attached
to this candidate; and he replied that she had informed him that she was married, but he had
no idea she intended to bring her husband with her. He was very sorry that this was necessary,
but in his judgment the man would not live very long.

My grandmother was greatly pleased when I told her of the arrangement I had made to assist
a devoted wife to support an invalid husband. She considered it a most worthy and commendable
action, and she was rejoiced that such an opportunity had been afforded me. She would do what
she could to make the poor man comfortable while his wife was at work; and if he had any sense
at all, and knew what was to his advantage, he would be very careful not to interfere with
her duties.

The next morning the couple appeared, and the lady was ensconced in the anteroom to my study,
which I had fitted up for the use of my secretary, where, through the open window in front
of her, she could see her husband, seated in a rocking-chair, under a wide-spreading apple-tree.
By his side was a table, on which lay the morning paper and some books which my grandmother
had sent out to him. For a time she gave him also her society, but, as she subsequently informed
me, she did not find him responsive, and soon concluded that he would be happier if left to
his reflections and the literature with which she had provided him.

As an amanuensis I found my new assistant everything that could be desired. She wrote rapidly
and correctly, never asked me to repeat, showed no nervousness at the delays in my dictation,
and was ready to write the instant I was ready to speak. She was quick and intelligent in looking
up synonyms, and appeared perfectly at home in the dictionary. But in spite of these admirable
qualifications, I did not find myself, that morning, in a condition favorable to my best literary
work. Whenever my secretary was not actually writing she was looking out of the window; sometimes
she would smile and nod, and on three occasions, while I was considering, not what I should
say next, but whether or not I could stand this sort of thing, she went gently to the window,
and asked the invalid, in a clear whisper, intended to be entirely undisturbing, how he was
getting on and if he wanted anything.

Two days after this the air was damp and rain threatened, and the malarial gentleman was supplied
with comfortable quarters in the back parlor. I do not know whether or not he liked this better
than sitting under a tree, but I am sure that the change did not please his wife. She could
not look at him, and she could not ask him how he was getting on and if he wanted anything.
I could see that she was worried and fidgety, although endeavoring to work as faithfully and
steadily as usual. Twice during a break in the dictation she asked me to excuse her for just
one minute, while she ran into the parlor to take a peep at him.

The next day it rained, and there seemed every probability that we should have continued wet
weather, and that it would be days before the malarial one could sit under the apple-tree.
Therefore I looked the situation fairly in the face. It was impossible for me to dictate to
a nervous, anxious woman, whose obvious mental condition acted most annoyingly upon my nerves,
and I suggested that she bring her husband into her room, and let him sit there while she worked.
With this proposition my secretary was delighted.

"Oh, that will be charming!" she cried. "He will sit just as still as a mouse, and will not
disturb either of us, and I shall be able to see how he feels without saying a word."

For four days the malarial gentleman, as quiet as a mouse, sat by my secretary's window, while
she wrote at the table, and I walked up and down my study, or threw myself into one chair or
another, endeavoring to forget that that man was sitting by the window; that he was trying
his best not to do anything which might disturb me; that he did not read, or write, or occupy
his mind in any way; that he heard every word I dictated to his wife without indicating that
he was not deaf, or that he was capable of judging whether my words were good, bad, or unworthy
of consideration. Not only did I endeavor not to think of him, but I tried not to see either
him or his wife. The silent, motionless figure of the one, and the silent but animated and
vivacious figure of the other, filled with an eager desire to do her work properly, with a
bubbling and hearty love for her husband, and an evident joyousness in the fact that she could
love, work, and watch, all at the same time, drove from my mind every thought of travel or
foreign experiences. Without the malarial husband I should have asked for no better secretary;
but he spoiled everything. He was like a raw oyster in a cup of tea.

I could not drive from my mind the vision of that man even when I knew he was asleep in his
bed. There was no way of throwing him off. His wife had expressed to my grandmother the delight
she felt in having him in the room with her while she worked, and my grandmother had spoken
to me of her own sympathetic pleasure in this arrangement. I saw it would be impossible to
exile him again to the apple-tree, even if the ground should ever be dry enough. There was
no hope that he would be left at his home; there was no hope that he would get better, and
go off to attend to his own business; there was no hope that he would die.

From dictating but little I fell to dictating almost nothing at all. To keep my secretary at
work, I gave her some notes of travel of which to make a fair copy, while I occupied myself
in wondering what I was going to do about that malarial husband.

At last I ceased to wonder, and I did something. I went to the city, and, after a day's hard
work, I secured a position for my secretary in a large publishing establishment, where her
husband could sit by a window in a secluded corner, and keep as quiet as a mouse. The good
lady overwhelmed me with thanks for my kindness. She had begun to fear that, as the season
grew colder, the daily trip would not suit her husband, and she gave me credit for having thought
the same thing.

My grandmother and Walkirk were greatly concerned, as well as surprised, at what I had done.
The former said that, if I attempted to write my book with my own hand, she feared the sedentary
work would tell upon my health; and my under-study, while regretting very much that his efforts
to provide me with an amanuensis had proved unsuccessful, showed very plainly, although he
did not say so, that he hoped I had found that authorship was an annoying and unprofitable
business, and that I would now devote myself to pursuits which were more congenial, and in
which he could act for me when occasion required.

IX.

WALKIRK'S IDEA.

Walkirk very soon discovered that I had no intention whatever of giving up the writing of my
book, and I quieted the fears of my grandmother, in regard to my health, by assuring her that
the sedentary work connected with the production of my volume would not be done by me. Secretaries
could be had, and I would get one.

This determination greatly disturbed Walkirk. He did not wish to see me perform a service for
myself which it was his business to perform for me, and in which he had failed. I know that
he gave the matter the most earnest consideration, and two days after my late secretary and
her husband had left me he came into my study, his face shining with a new idea.

"Mr. Vanderley," said he, "to find you an amanuensis who will exactly suit you, and who will
be willing to come here into the country to work, is, I think you will admit, a very difficult
business; but I do not intend, if I can help it, to be beaten by it. I have thought of a plan
which I believe will meet all contingencies, and I have come to propose it to you. You know
that institution just outside the village,--the House of Martha?"

I replied that I knew of it.

"Well," he continued, "I did not think of it until a day or two ago, and I have since been
inquiring into its organization and nature. That sisterhood of Martha is composed of women
who propose not only to devote themselves to a life of goodness, but to imitate the industrious
woman for whom they have named themselves. They work not only in their establishment, but wherever
they can find suitable occupation, and all that they earn is devoted to the good of the institution.
Some of them act as nurses for the sick,--for pay if people can afford it, for nothing if they
cannot. Others have studied medicine, and practice in the same way. They also prepare medicines
and dispense them, and do a lot of good things,--if possible, for money and the advantage of
the House of Martha. But every woman who joins such an institution cannot expect immediately
to find the sort of remunerative work she can best do, and I am informed that there are several
women there who, at present, are unemployed. Now, it is my opinion that among these you could
find half a dozen good secretaries."

I laughed aloud. "Those women," said I, "are just the same as nuns. It is ridiculous to suppose
that one of them would be allowed to come here as my secretary, even if she wanted to."

"I am not so sure of that," persisted Walkirk; "I do not see why literary, or rather clerical,
pursuits should not be as open to them as medicine or nursing."

"You may not see it," said I, "but I fancy that they do."

"It is impossible to be certain on that point," he replied, "until we have proposed the matter
to them, and given them the opportunity to consider it."

"If you imagine," I said, "that I have the effrontery to go to that nunnery--for it is no more
nor less than that--and ask the Lady Abbess to lend me one of her nuns to write at my dictation,
you have very much mistaken me."

Walkirk smiled. "I hardly expected you to do that," said he, "although I must insist that it
is not a nunnery, and there is no Lady Abbess. There is a Head Mother, and some sub-mothers,
I believe. My idea was that Mrs. Vanderley should drive over there and make inquiries for you.
A proposition from an elderly lady of such high position in the community would have a much
better effect than if it came from a gentleman."

Walkirk's plan amused me very much, and I told him I would talk to my grandmother about it.
When I did so, I was much surprised to find that she received the idea with favor.

"That Mr. Walkirk," she said, "is a man of a good deal of penetration and judgment, and if
you could get one of those sisters to come here and write for you I should like it very much;
and if the first one did not suit, you could try another without trouble or expense. The fact
that you had a good many strings to your bow would give you ease of mind and prevent your getting
discouraged. I don't want you to give up the idea of having a secretary."

Then, with some hesitation, my good grandmother confided to me that there was another reason
why this idea of employing a sister pleased her. She had been a little afraid that some lady
secretary, especially like that very pleasant and exemplary person with the invalid husband,
might put the notion into my head that it would be a good thing for me to have a wife to do
my writing. Now, of course she expected me to get married some day. That was all right, but
there was no need of my being in any hurry about it; and as to my wife doing my writing, that
was not to be counted upon positively. Some wives might not be willing to do it, and others
might not do it well; so, as far as that matter was concerned, nothing would be gained. But
one of those sisters would never suggest matrimony. They were women apart from all that sort
of thing. They had certain work to do in this world, and they did it for the good of the cause
in which they were enlisted, without giving any thought to those outside matters which so often
occupy the minds of women who have not, in a manner, separated themselves from the world. She
would go that very afternoon to the House of Martha and make inquiries.

X.

THE PLAN OF SECLUSION.

My grandmother returned from the House of Martha disappointed and annoyed. Life had always
flowed very smoothly for her, and I had rarely seen her in her present mental condition.

"I do not believe," she said, "that that institution will succeed. Those women are too narrow-minded.
If they were in a regular stone-walled convent, it would be another thing, but they are only
a sisterhood. They are not shut up there; it's their business and part of their religion to
go out, and why they should not be willing to come here and do good, as well as anywhere else,
I cannot see, for the life of me."

"Then they objected to the proposition?" I asked.

"Yes," she replied, "they did, and without any reason whatever. I saw their superior, whom
they call Mother Anastasia, and from her I learned that there were several women in the establishment
who were thoroughly competent to act as secretaries; but when I proposed that one of them should
come and write for you, she said that would not do at all. I reasoned the matter with her:
that literature was as high a profession as medicine, and as much good could be done with the
practice of one as the other; and if the sisters went out to nurse and to cure, they might
just as well go out to write for those who cannot write for themselves. To that she answered,
it was not the writing she objected to,--that was all well enough,--but it was decidedly outside
of the vocation of the order for one of the sisters to spend her mornings with a young gentleman.
If he were sick and suffering, and had no one else to attend to him, it would be different.
Upon this, I told her that you would be sick if you were obliged to do your own writing, and
therefore I couldn't see the difference.

"But I must admit she was very good-natured and pleasant about it, and she told me that if
you chose to come to their visitors' room and make yourself comfortable there, and dictate,
one of the sisters would sit at the table behind the grating and would write for you. I replied
that I did not believe you would like that, but that I would mention it to you."

I laughed. "So much for Walkirk's brilliant idea," I said. "I fancy myself going every morning
to that nunnery to do my work in their cheerless visitors' room!"

"Cheerless? I should say so!" exclaimed my grandmother,--"bare floors, bare walls, and hard
wooden chairs. It is not to be thought of."

That evening I informed Walkirk of the ill success of my grandmother's mission, but to my surprise
he did not appear to be discouraged.

"I don't think we need have any trouble at all in managing that affair," said he. "Why shouldn't
you have a grating put up in the doorway between your study and the secretary's room? Then
the sister could go in there, the other door could be locked, and she would be as much shut
off from the world as if she were behind a grating in the House of Martha. I believe, if this
plan were proposed to the sisters, it would be agreed to."

I scouted the idea as utterly absurd; but when, the next morning, I mentioned it to my grandmother,
she caught at it eagerly, and no sooner had she finished her breakfast than she ordered her
carriage and drove to the House of Martha.

She returned triumphant.

"We had a long discussion," she said, "but Mother Anastasia finally saw the matter in its proper
light. She admitted that if a room could be arranged in this house, in which a sister could
be actually secluded, there was no good reason why she should not work there as consistently
with their rules as if she were in the House of Martha. Therefore, she agreed, if you concluded
to carry out this plan, to send a sister every morning to write for you. So now, if you want
a secretary from the House of Martha, you can have one."

To this I replied that I most positively wanted one; and Walkirk was immediately instructed
to have a suitable grating made for the doorway between my study and the secretary's room.

Nearly a week was required for the execution of this work, and during this time I took a rest
from literary composition and visited some friends, leaving all the arrangements for my new
secretary in the hands of my grandmother and Walkirk. When I returned, the iron grating was
in its place. It was a neat and artistic piece of work, but I did not like it. I object decidedly
to anything which suggests restraint. The whole affair of the secretary was indeed very different
from what I would have had it, but I had discovered that even in our advanced era of civilization
one cannot always have everything he wants, albeit he be perfectly able and willing to pay for it.

XI.

MY NUN.

At nine o'clock on the morning of the appointed day my new secretary came, accompanied by one
of those sisters called by Walkirk sub-mothers.

My grandmother received the two, and conducted them to the secretary's room. I was sitting
in my study, but no attention was paid to me. The sub-mother advanced to the grating, and,
having examined it, appeared satisfied to find that it was securely fastened in the doorway.
The nun, as I called her, although Walkirk assured me the term was incorrect, stood with her
back toward me, and when her companion had said a few words to her, in a low tone, she took
her seat at the table. She wore a large gray bonnet, the sides and top of which extended far
beyond her face, a light gray shawl, and a gray gown. She sat facing the window, with her left
side turned toward me, and from no point of my study could I get a glimpse of her features.

The sub-mother looked out of the window, which opened upon little more than the once husband-sheltering
apple-tree, and then, after a general glance around the room, she looked at me, and for the
first time addressed me.

"I will come for the sister at twelve o'clock," she said, and with that she followed my grandmother
out of the room, and locked the door behind her.

I stood and looked through the grating at my new secretary. I am not generally a diffident
man, and have never been so with persons in my employment; but now, I must admit, I did not
feel at my ease. The nun sat perfectly motionless; her hands were folded in her gray lap, and
her gray bonnet was slightly bowed, so that I did not know whether she was gazing down at the
table or out of the window.

She was evidently ready for work, but I was not. I did not know exactly how to begin with such
a secretary. With the others I had been outspoken from the first; I had told them what I wanted
and what I did not want, and they had been ready enough to listen and ready enough to answer.
But to this silent, motionless gray figure I did not feel that I could be outspoken. No words
suggested themselves as being appropriate to speak out. If I could see her face but for a moment,
and discover whether she were old or young, cross-looking or gentle, I might know what to say
to her. My impulse was to tell her there was a hook on which she could hang her bonnet and
shawl, but as I did not know whether or not these sisters ever took off their bonnets and shawls,
I did not feel at liberty to make this suggestion.

But it would not do to continue there, looking at her. She might be a very shy person, and
if I appeared shy it would probably make her all the shyer; so I spoke.

"You will find paper," I said, "in the drawer of your table, and there are pens, of different
sorts, in that tray." She opened the drawer, took out some paper, and selected a pen, all without
turning her head toward me. Having broken the ice, I now felt impelled to deliver a short lecture
on my requirements; but how could I say what I required without knowing what manner of person
it was of whom I required it? I therefore postponed the lecture, and determined to begin work
without further delay, as probably that would be the best way to put us both at our ease. But
it had been more than two weeks since I had done any work, and I could not remember what it
was that I had been dictating, or endeavoring to dictate, to the lady with the malarial husband.
I therefore thought it well to begin at a fresh point, and to leave the gap to be filled up
afterward. I felt quite sure, when last at work, I had been treating of the south of France,
and had certainly not reached Marseilles. I therefore decided to take a header for Marseilles,
and into Marseilles I plunged.

As soon as I began to speak the nun began to write, and having at last got her at work I felt
anxious to keep her at it, and went steadily on through the lively seaport; touching upon one
point after another as fast as I thought of them, and without regard to their proper sequence.
But although I sometimes skipped from one end of the city to the other, and from history to
street scenes, I dictated steadily, and the nun wrote steadily. She worked rapidly, and apparently
heard and understood every word I said, for she asked no questions and did not hesitate. I
am sure I never before dictated so continuously. I had been in the habit of stopping a good
deal to think, not only about my work, but about other things, but now I did not wish to stop.

This amanuensis was very different from any other I had had. The others worked to make money
for themselves, or to please me, or because they liked it. This one worked from principle.
The money which I paid for her labor did not become her money. It was paid to the House of
Martha. She sat there and wrote to promote the principles upon which the House of Martha was
founded. In fact, so far as I was concerned, she was nothing more than a principle.

Now, to interfere with the working of a principle is not the right thing to do, and therefore
I felt impelled to keep on dictating, which I did until the hall door of the secretary's room
was unlocked and the sub-mother walked in. She came forward and said a few words to the nun,
who stopped writing and wiped her pen. The other then turned to me, and in a low voice asked
if the work of the sister was satisfactory. I advanced to the grating, and answered that I
was perfectly satisfied, and was about to make some remarks, which I hoped would lead to a
conversation, when the sub-mother--whose name I subsequently learned was Sister Sarah--made
a little bow, and, saying if that were the case they would return at nine the next morning,
left the room in company with the nun. The latter, when she arose from the table, turned her
back to me, and went out without giving me the slightest opportunity of looking into her cavernous
bonnet. This she did, I must admit, in the most natural way possible, which was probably the
result of training, and gave one no idea of rudeness or incivility.

When they were gone I was piqued, almost angry with myself. I had intended stopping work a
little before noon, in order to talk to that nun, even if she did not answer or look at me.
She should discover that if she was a principle, I was, at least, an entity. I did not know
exactly what I should say to her, but it would be something one human being would be likely
to say to another human being who was working for him. If from the first I put myself on the
proper level, she might in time get there. But although I had lost my present chance, she was
coming again the next day.

I entered the secretary's room by the hall door, and looked at the manuscript which had been
left on the table. It was written in an excellent hand, not too large, very legible, and correctly
punctuated. Everything had been done properly, except that after the first three pages she
had forgotten to number the leaves at the top; but as every sheet was placed in its proper
order, this was an omission which could be easily rectified. I was very glad she had made it,
for it would give me something to speak to her about.

At luncheon my grandmother asked me how I liked the new secretary, and added that if she did
not suit me I could try another next day. I answered that so far she suited me, and that I
had not the least wish at present to try another. I think my grandmother was about to say something
regarding this sister, but I instantly begged her not to do so. I wished to judge her entirely
on her merits, I said, and would rather not hear anything about her until I had come to a decision
as to her abilities. I did not add that I felt such an interest in the anticipated discovery
of the personality of this secretary that I did not wish that discovery interfered with.

In the evening Walkirk inquired about the sister-amanuensis, but I merely answered that so
far she had done very well, and dropped the subject. In my own mind I did not drop the subject
until I fell asleep that night. I found myself from time to time wondering what sort of a woman
was that nun. Was she an elderly, sharp-faced creature; was she a vapid, fat-faced creature,
or a young and pleasing creature? And when I had asked myself these questions, I snubbed myself
for taking the trouble to think about the matter, and then I began wondering again.

But upon one point I firmly made up my mind: the relationship between my secretary and myself
should not continue to be that of an entity dictating to a principle.

XII.

EZA.

The next day, when the nun and Sister Sarah entered the secretary's room, I advanced to the
grating and bade them good-morning. They both bowed, and the nun took her seat at the table.
Sister Sarah then turned to me and asked if I had a gold pen, adding that the sister was accustomed
to writing with one. I answered that I had all kinds of pens, and if the sister wanted a gold
one it was only necessary to ask me for it. I brought several gold pens, and handed them through
the grating to the sub-mother, who gave them to the secretary, and then took her leave, locking
the door behind her. My nun took one of the pens, tried it, arranged the paper, and sat ready
to write. I stood by the grating, hoping to converse a little, if it should be possible.

"Is there anything else you would like?" I said. "If there is, you know you must mention it."

She gently shook her head. The idea now occurred to me that perhaps my nun was dumb; but I
almost instantly thought that this could not be, for dumb people were almost always deaf, and
she could hear well enough. Then it struck me that she might be a Trappist nun, and bound by
a vow of silence; but I reflected that she was not really a nun, and consequently could not
be a Trappist.

Having been unsuccessful in my first attempt to make her speak, and having now stood silent
for some moments, I felt it might be unwise to make another trial just then, for my object
would be too plain. I therefore sat down and began dictating.

I did not work as easily as I had done on the preceding morning, for I intended, if possible,
to make my nun look at me, or speak, before the hour of noon, and thinking of this intention
prevented me from keeping my mind upon my work. From time to time I made remarks in regard
to the temperature of the room, the quality of the paper, or something of the kind. To these
she did not answer at all, or slightly nodded, or shook her head in a deprecatory manner, as
if they were matters not worth considering.

Then I suddenly remembered the omission of the paging, and spoke of that. In answer she took
up the manuscript she had written and paged every sheet. After this my progress was halting
and uneven. Involuntarily my mind kept on devising plans for making that woman speak or turn
her face toward me. If she would do the latter, I would be satisfied; and even if she proved
to be an unveiled prophetess of Khorassan, there would be no further occasion for conjectures
and wonderings, and I could go on with my work in peace. But it made me nervous to remain silent,
and see that nun sitting there, pen in hand, but motionless as a post, and waiting for me to
give her the signal to continue the exercise of the principle to which her existence was now
devoted.

I went on with my dictation. I had left Marseilles, had touched slightly upon Nice, and was
now traveling by carriage on the Cornice Road to Mentone. "It was on this road," I dictated,
"that an odd incident occurred to me. We were nearly opposite the old robber village of"--and
then I hesitated and stopped. I could not remember the name of the village. I walked up and
down my study, rubbing my forehead, but the name would not recur to me. I was just thinking
that I would have to go to the library and look up the name of the village, when from out of
the depths of the nun's bonnet there came a voice, low but distinct, and, I thought, a little
impatient, and it said, "Eza."

"Eza! of course!" I exclaimed,--"certainly it is Eza! How could I have forgotten it? I am very
much obliged to you for reminding me of the name of that village. Perhaps you have been there?"

In answer to this question I received the least little bit of a nod, and the nun's pen began
gently to paw the paper, as if it wanted to go on.

I was now really excited. She had spoken. Why should I not do something which should make her
turn her face toward me,--something which would take her off her guard, as my forgetfulness
had just done? But no idea came to my aid, and I felt obliged to begin to dictate the details
of the odd incident, when suddenly the door opened, Sister Sarah walked in, and the morning's
work was over.

I had not done much, but I had made that nun speak. She said "Eza." That was a beginning, and
I felt confident that I should get on very well in time. I was a little sorry that my secretary
had been on the Cornice Road. I fancied that she might have been one of those elderly single
women who become Baedeker tourists, and, having tired of this sort of thing, had concluded
to devote her life to the work of the House of Martha. But this was mere idle conjecture. She
had spoken, and I should not indulge in pessimism.

I prepared a very good remark with which to greet the sub-mother on the next morning, and,
although addressing Sister Sarah, I would be in reality speaking to my nun. I would say how
well I was getting on. I had thought of saying we were getting on, but reflected afterward
that this would never do; I was sure that the House of Martha would not allow, under any circumstances,
that sister and myself to constitute a we. Then I would refer to the help my secretary had
been to me, and endeavor to express the satisfaction which an author must always feel for a
suggestion of this kind, or any other, from one qualified to make them. If there was any gratitude
or vanity in my nun's heart, I felt I could stir it up, if Sister Sarah would listen to me
long enough; and if gratitude, or even vanity, could be stirred, the rigidity of my nun would
be impaired, and she might find herself off her guard.

But I had no opportunity of making my remark. At nine o'clock the door of the secretary's room
opened, the nun entered, and the door was then closed and locked. Sister Sarah must have been
in a hurry that morning. Just as well as not I might have made my remark directly to my nun,
but I did not. She walked quickly to the table, arranged her paper, opened her inkstand, and
sat down. I fancied that I saw a wavy wriggle of impatience in her shawl. Perhaps she wanted
to know the rest of that odd incident near Eza. It may have been that it was impatient interest
which had impaired her rigidity the day before.

I went on with the odd incident, and made a very good thing of it. Even when on well-worn routes
of travel, I tried to confine myself to out-of-the-way experiences. Walkirk had been very much
interested in this affair when I had told it to him, and there was no reason why this nun should
not also be interested, especially as she had seen Eza.

I finished the narrative, and began another, a rather exciting one, connected with the breaking
of a carriage wheel and an exile from Monte Carlo; but never once did curiosity or any other
emotion impair the rigidity of that nun. She wrote almost as fast as I could dictate, and when
I stopped I know she was filled with nervous desire to know what was coming next,--at least
I fancied that her shawl indicated such nervousness; but hesitate as I might, or say what I
might,--and I did say a good many things which almost demanded a remark or answer,--not one
word came from her during the whole morning, nor did she ever turn the front of her bonnet
toward me.

XIII.

MY FRIEND VESPA.

I was very much disgusted at the present state of affairs. Three days had elapsed, and I did
not know what sort of a human being my secretary was. I might as well dictate into a speaking-tube.
A phonograph would be better; for although it might seem ridiculous to sit in my room and talk
aloud to no one, what was I doing now? That nun was the same as no one.

The next day was Sunday, and there would be no work, and no chance to solve the problem, which
had become an actual annoyance to me; but I did not intend that this problem should continue
to annoy me and interfere with my work. I am open and aboveboard myself, and if my secretary
did not choose to be open and aboveboard, and behave like an ordinary human being, she should
depart, and I would tell Walkirk to get me an ordinary human being, capable of writing from
dictation, or depart himself. If he could not provide me with a suitable secretary, he was
not the efficient man of business that he claimed to be. As to the absurdity of dictating to
a mystery in a barrow bonnet, I would have no more of it.

I do not consider myself an ill-tempered person, and my grandmother asserts that I have a very
good temper indeed; but I must admit that on Monday morning I felt a little cross, and when
Sister Sarah and the nun entered my antechamber I bade them a very cold good-morning, and allowed
the former to go without attempting any conversation whatever. The nun having arrived, I would
not send her away; but when the sub-mother came at noon, I intended to inform her that I did
not any longer desire the services of the writing sister, and if she wished to know why I should
tell her plainly. I would not say that I would as soon dictate to an inanimate tree-stump,
but I would express that idea in as courteous terms as possible.

For fifteen minutes I let the nun sit and wait. If her principles forbade idleness, I was glad
to have a crack at her principles. Then I began to dictate steadily and severely. I found that
the dismissal from my mind of all conjectures regarding the personality of my secretary was
of great service to me, and I was able to compose much faster than she could write.

It was about half past ten, I think, and the morning was warm and pleasant, when there gently
sailed into the secretary's room, through the open window, a wasp. I saw him come in, and I
do not think I ever beheld a more agreeable or benignant insect. His large eyes were filled
with the light of a fatherly graciousness. His semi-detached body seemed to quiver with a helpful
impulse, and his long hind legs hung down beneath him as though they were outstretched to assist,
befriend, or succor. With wings waving blessings and a buzz of cheery greeting, he sailed around
the room, now dipping here, now there, and then circling higher, tapping the ceiling with his
genial back.

The moment the nun saw the wasp, a most decided thrill ran down the back of her shawl. Then
it pervaded her bonnet, and finally the whole of her. As the beneficent insect sailed down
near the table, she abruptly sprang to her feet and pushed back her chair. I advanced to the
grating, but what could I do? Seeing me there, and doubtless with the desire immediately to
assure me of his kindly intentions, my friend Vespa made a swoop directly at the front of the
nun's bonnet.

With an undisguised ejaculation, and beating wildly at the insect with her hands, the nun bounded
to one side and turned her face full upon me. I stood astounded. I forgot the wasp.

I totally lost sight of the fact that a young woman was in danger of being badly stung. I thought
of nothing but that she was a young woman, and a most astonishingly pretty one besides.

The state of terror she was in opened wide her lovely blue eyes, half crimsoned her clear white
skin, and threw her rosy lips and sparkling teeth into the most enchanting combinations.

"Make it go away!" she cried, throwing up one arm, and thereby pushing back her gray bonnet,
and exhibiting some of the gloss of her light brown hair. "Can't you kill it?"

Most gladly would I have rushed in, and shed with my own hands the blood of my friend Vespa,
for the sake of this most charming young woman, suddenly transformed from a barrow-bonneted
principle. But I was powerless. I could not break through the grating; the other door of the
secretary's room was locked.

"Don't strike at it," I said; "remain as motionless as you can, then perhaps it will fly away.
Striking at a wasp only enrages it."

"I can't stay quiet," she cried; "nobody could!" and she sprang behind the table, making at
the same time another slap at the buzzing insect.

"You will surely be stung," I said, "if you act in that way. If you will slap at the wasp,
don't use your hand; take something with which you can kill it."

"What can I take?" she exclaimed, now running round the table, and stopping close to the grating.
"Give me something."

I hurriedly glanced around my study. I saw nothing that would answer for a weapon but a whisk
broom, which I seized, and endeavored to thrust through the meshes of the grating.

"Oh!" she cried, as the wasp made a desperate dive close to her face, "give me that, quick!"
and she stretched out her hand to me.

"I cannot," I replied; "I can't push it through. It won't go through. Take your bonnet."

At this, my nun seized her bonnet by a sort of floating hood which hung around the bottom of
it and jerked it from her head, bringing with it certain flaps and ligatures and combs, which,
being thus roughly removed, allowed a mass of wavy hair to fall about her shoulders.

Waving her bonnet in her hand, like a slung-shot, she sprang back and waited for the wasp.
When the buzzing creature came near enough, she made a desperate crack at him, missing him;
she struck again and again, now high, now low; she dashed from side to side of the room, and
with one of her mad sweeps she scattered a dozen pages of manuscript upon the floor.

The view of this combat was enrapturing to me; the face of my nun, now lighted by a passionate
determination to kill that wasp, was a delight to my eyes. If I could have assured myself that
the wasp would not sting her, I would have helped him to prolong the battle indefinitely. But
my nun was animated by very different emotions. She was bound to be avenged upon the wasp,
and avenged she was. Almost springing into the air, she made a grand stroke at him, as he receded
from her, hit him, and dashed him against the wall. He fell to the floor, momentarily disabled,
but flapping and buzzing. Then down she stooped, and with three great whacks with her bonnet
she finished the battle. The wasp lay motionless.

"Now," she said, throwing her bonnet upon the table, "I will close that window;" and she walked
across the room, her blue eyes sparkling, her face glowing from her violent exercise, and her
rich brown hair hanging in long waves upon her shoulders.

"Don't do that," I said; "it will make your room too warm. There is a netting screen in the
corner there. If you put that under the sash, it will keep out all insects. I wish I could
do it for you."

She took the frame and fitted it under the sash.

"I am sorry I did not know that before," she said, as she returned to her table; "this is a
very bad piece of business."

I begged her to excuse me for not having informed her of the screen, but I did not say that
I was sorry for what had occurred. I merely expressed my gratification that she had not been
stung. Her chair had been pushed away from the table, its back against the wall, opposite to
me. She seated herself upon it, gently panting. She looked from side to side at the sheets
of manuscript scattered upon the floor.

"I will pick them up presently and go to work, but I must rest a minute." She did not now seem
to consider that it was of the slightest consequence whether I saw her face or not.

"Never mind the papers," I said; "leave them there; they can be picked up any time."

"I wish that were the worst of it;" and as she spoke she raised her eyes toward me, and the
least little bit of a smile came upon her lips, as if, though troubled, she could not help
feeling the comical absurdity of the situation.

"It is simply dreadful," she continued. "I don't believe such a thing ever before happened
to a sister."

"There is nothing dreadful about it," said I; "and do you mean to say that the sisters of the
House of Martha, who go out to nurse, and do all sorts of good deeds, never speak to the people
they are befriending, nor allow them to look upon their faces?"

"Of course," said she, "you have to talk to sick people; otherwise how could you know what
they need? But this is a different case;" and she began to gather up her hair and twist it
at the back of her head.

"I do not understand," I remarked; "why is it a different case?"

"It is as different as it can be," said she, picking up her comb from the floor and thrusting
it through her hastily twisted knot of hair. "I should not have come here at all if your grandmother
had not positively asserted that there would be nothing for me to do but to listen and to write.
And Mother Anastasia and Sister Sarah both of them especially instructed me that I was not
to speak to you nor to look at you, but simply to sit at the table and work for the good of
the cause. That was all I had to do; and I am sure I obeyed just as strictly as anybody could,
except once, when you forgot the name of Eza, and I was so anxious to have you go on with the
incident that I could not help mentioning it. And now, I am sure I don't know what I ought to do."

"Do?" I asked. "There is nothing to do except to begin writing where you left off. The wasp
is dead."

"I wish it had never been born," she said. "I have no doubt that the whole affair should come
to an end now, and that I ought to go home; but I can't do that until Sister Sarah comes to
unlock the door, and so I suppose we had better go to work."

"We"! I would not have dared to use that word, but it fell from her lips in the easiest and
most conventional manner possible. It was delightful to hear it. I never knew before what a
pleasant sound the word had. She now set herself to work to gather up the papers from the floor,
and, having arranged them in their proper order, she took up her bonnet.

"Do you have to wear that?" I asked.

"Certainly," she answered, clapping it on and pulling it well forward.

"I should think it would be very hot and uncomfortable," I remarked.

"It is," she admitted curtly; and, seating herself at the table, she took up her pen.

I now perceived that if I knew what was good for myself I would cease from speaking on ordinary
topics, and go on with my dictation. This I did, giving out my sentences as rapidly as possible,
although I must admit I took no interest whatever in what I was saying, nor do I believe that
my secretary was interested in the subject-matter of my work. She wrote rapidly, and, as well
as I could judge, appeared excited and annoyed. I was excited also, but not in the least disturbed.
My emotions were of a highly pleasing character. We worked steadily for some twenty minutes,
when suddenly she stopped and laid down her pen.

"Of course it isn't right to speak," she said, turning in her chair and speaking to me face
to face, as one human being to another, "but as I have said so much already, I don't suppose
a little more will make matters worse, and I must ask somebody's help in making up my mind
what I ought to do. I suspect I have made all sorts of mistakes in this writing, but I could
not keep my thoughts on my work. I have been trying my best to decide how I ought to act, but
I cannot make up my mind."

"I shall be delighted to help you, if I can," I ventured. "What's the point that you cannot
decide?"

"It is just this," she replied, fixing her blue eyes upon me with earnest frankness: "am I
to tell the sisters what has happened or not? If I tell them, I know exactly what will be the
result: I shall come here no more, and I shall have to take Sister Hannah's place at the Measles
Refuge. There's nothing in this world that I hate like measles. I've had them, but that doesn't
make the slightest difference. Sister Hannah has asked to be relieved, and I know she wants
this place dreadfully."

"She cannot come here!" I exclaimed. "I don't believe I ever had the measles, and I will not
have them."

"She is a stenographer," said she, "and she will most certainly be ordered to take my place
if I make known what I have done to-day."

"Supposing you were sure that you were not obliged to go to the Measles Refuge," I asked, "should
you still regret giving up this position?"

"Of course I should," she answered promptly. "I must work at something, or I cannot stay in
the House of Martha; and there is no work which I like so well as this. It interests me extremely."

"Now hear me," said I, speaking perhaps a little too earnestly, "and I do not believe any one
could give you better advice than I am going to give you. What has occurred this morning was
strictly and absolutely an accident. A wasp came in at the window and tried to sting you; and
there is no woman in the world, be she a sister or not, who could sit still and let a wasp
sting her."

"No," she interrupted, "I don't believe Mother Anastasia could do it."

"And what followed," I continued, "was perfectly natural, and could not possibly be helped.
You were obliged to defend yourself, and in so doing you were obliged to act just as any other
woman would act. Nothing else would have been possible, and the talking and all that came in
with the rest. You couldn't help it."

"That's the way the matter appeared to me," said she; "but the question would arise, if it
were all right, why should I hesitate to tell the sisters?"

"Hesitate!" I exclaimed. "You should not even think of such a thing. No matter what the sisters
really thought about it, I am sure they would not let you come here any more, and you would
be sent to the measles institution, and thus actually be punished for the attempted wickedness
of a wasp."

"But there is the other side of the matter," said she; "would it not be wicked in me not to
tell them?"

"Not at all," I replied. "You do not repeat to the sisters all that I tell you to write?"

"Of course not," she interrupted.

"And you do not consider it your duty," I continued, "to relate every detail of the business
in which you are employed?"

"No," she said. "They ask me some things, and some things I have mentioned to them, such as
not having a gold pen."

"Very good," said I. "You should consider that defending yourself against wasps is just as
much your business here as anything else. If you are stung, it is plain you can't write, and
the interests of your employer and of the House of Martha must suffer."

"Yes," she assented, still with the steady gaze of her blue eyes.

"Now your duty is clear," I went on. "If the sisters ask you if a wasp flew into your room
and tried to sting you, and you had to jump around and kill it, and speak, before you could
go on with your work, why, of course you must tell them; but if they don't ask you, don't tell
them. It may seem ridiculous to you," I continued hurriedly, "to suppose that they would ask
such a question, but I put it in this way to show you the principle of the thing."

She withdrew her eyes from my face, and fixed them upon the floor.

"The truth of the matter is," she said presently, "that I haven't done anything wrong; at least
I didn't intend to. I might have crouched down in the corner, with my face to the wall, and
have covered my head and hands with my shawl, but I should have been obliged to stay there
until Sister Sarah came, and I should have been smothered to death; and besides, I didn't think
of it; so what I did do was the only thing I could do, and I do not think I ought to be punished
for it."

"Now it is settled," I said. "Your duty is to work here for the benefit of your sisterhood,
and you should not allow a wasp or any insect to interfere with it."

She looked at me, and smiled a little abstractedly. Then she turned to the table.

"I will go on with my work," she said, "and I will not say anything to the sisters until I
have given the matter most earnest and careful consideration. I can do that a great deal better
at home than I can here."

It was very well that she stopped talking and applied herself to her work, for I do not believe
it was ten minutes afterward when Sister Sarah unlocked the door, and came in to take her away.

XIV.

I FAVOR PERMANENCY IN OFFICE.

As soon as my secretary had gone I went into her room and looked for my friend Vespa. I found
him on the floor, quite dead, but not demolished. Picking him up and carrying him to my study,
I carefully gummed him to a card. Under his motionless form I wrote, "The good services of
this friend I shall ever keep in grateful remembrance." Then I pinned the card to the wall
between two bookcases.

During the rest of that day I found myself in a state of unreasonable exaltation. Several times
I put to myself the questions: Why is it that you feel so cheerful and so gay? Why have you
the inclination to whistle and to dance in your room? Why do you light a cigar, and let it
go out through forgetfulness? Why do you answer your grandmother at random, and feel an inclination
to take a long walk by yourself, although you know there are people invited to an afternoon tea?

I was not able to give an adequate answer to these questions, nor did I very much care to.
I knew that my high spirits were caused by the discoveries the good Vespa had enabled me to
make, and the fact that this reason could not be proved adequate did not trouble me at all;
but prudence and a regard for my own interests made it very plain to me that other people should
not know I had been exalted, and how. If I desired my nun to continue as my secretary, I must
not let any one know that I cared in the least to hear her voice, or to have the front of her
bonnet turned towards me.

At dinner, that day, my grandmother remarked to me:--

"Are you still satisfied with the House of Martha's sister? Does she do your work as you wish
to have it done?"

I leaned back in my chair, and answered with deliberation:--

"Yes, I think she will do very well, and that after more practice she will do better. As it
is, she is industrious and attentive. I place great stress upon that point, for I do not like
to repeat my sentences; but she has a quick ear, and catches every word."

"Then," asked my grandmother, "you do not wish to make a change at present?"

"Oh, no," I said; "it would be very annoying to begin again with a new amanuensis. I am getting
accustomed to this person, and that is a very important matter with me. So I do not wish to
make any change so long as this sister does her work properly."

"I must say," resumed my grandmother, after a little pause, in which she seemed to be considering
the subject, "that I was not altogether in favor of that young woman taking the position of
your secretary. She can have had but little experience, and I thought that an older and steadier
person would answer your purpose much better; but this one was unemployed at the time, and
wished very much to do literary work; and as the institution needed the money you would pay,
which would probably amount to a considerable sum if your book should be a long one, and as
you were in a great hurry, and might engage some one from the city if one of the Martha sisters
were not immediately available, Mother Anastasia and I concluded that it would be well to send
this young person until one of the older sisters, competent for the work, should be disengaged.
I thought you would be very anxious to have this change made as soon as possible, so that you
might feel that you had a permanent secretary."

"Oh, no," said I, trying very hard not to appear too much in earnest. "This person is very
steady, and there is a certain advantage in her being young, without much experience as a secretary.
I wish any one who writes for me to work in my way; and if such a person has been accustomed
to work in other people's ways, annoyance and interruption must surely result, and that I wish
very much to avoid. A secretary should be a mere writing-machine, and I do not believe an elderly
person could be that. She would be sure to have notions how my work should or should not be
done, and in some way or other would make those notions evident."

"I don't quite agree with you," said my grandmother, "but of course you know your own business
better than I do; and I suppose, after all, it doesn't make much difference whether the sister
is young or not. They all dress alike, and all look ugly alike. I don't suppose there would
be anything attractive about the Venus de Milo, if she wore a coal-scuttle bonnet and a gray
woolen shawl."

"No," I answered, "especially if she kept the opening of her coal-scuttle turned down over
her paper, as if she were about to empty coals upon it."

"That's very proper," said my grandmother, speaking a little more briskly. "All she has to
do is to keep her eyes on her work, and I suppose, from what you say, that the flaps of her
bonnet do not interfere with her keeping her ears on you. But if at any time you desire to
make a change, all you have to do is to let me know, and I can easily arrange the matter."

I promised that I would certainly let her know in case I had such a desire.

That evening Walkirk remarked to me that he thought nothing could be more satisfactory for
me than to have on tap, so to speak, an institution like the House of Martha, from which I
could draw a secretary whenever I wanted one, and keep her for as long or as short a time as
pleased me; and to have this supply in the immediate neighborhood was an extraordinary advantage.

I agreed that the arrangement was a very good one; and I think he was about to ask some questions
in regard to my nun, but I began my recital, and cut off any further conversation on the subject.

My monologue was rather disjointed that evening, for my mind was occupied with other things,
or, more strictly speaking, another thing. I felt quite sure, however, that Walkirk did not
notice my preoccupation, for he gave the same earnest and interested attention to my descriptions
which he had always shown, and which made him such an agreeable and valuable listener. Indeed,
his manner put me at my ease, because, on account of the wandering of my mind, his general
expression indicated that, if I found it necessary to pause in order that I might arrange what
I should say next, he was very glad of the opportunity thus given him to reflect upon what
I had just said. He was an admirable listener.

XV.

HOW WE WENT BACK TO GENOA.

The next morning I awaited with considerable perturbation of mind the arrival of my nun. I
felt assured that, after the occurrences of the previous day, there must certainly be some
sort of a change in her. She could not go on exactly as she had gone on before. The nature
of this anticipated change concerned me very much,--too much, I assured myself. Would she be
more rigid and repellent than she had been before the advent of the wasp? But this would be
impossible. On the other hand, would she be more like other people? Would she relax a little,
and work like common secretaries? Or,--and I whistled as I thought of it,--having once done
so, would she permanently cut loose from the absurdities enjoined upon her by the House of
Martha people, and look at me and talk to me in the free, honest, ingenuous, frank, sincere,
and thoroughly sensible manner in which she had spoken to me the day before?

After revolving these questions in my mind for some time, another one rudely thrust itself
upon me: would she come at all? It was already seven minutes past nine; she had never been
so late. Now that I came to think of it, this would be the most natural result of the wasp
business. The thought shocked me. I ceased to walk up and down my study, and stopped whistling.
I think my face must have flushed; I know my pulse beat faster. My eyes fell upon the body
of him who I believed had been my friend. I felt like crushing his remains with my fist. He
had been my enemy! He had shown me what I had to lose, and he had made me lose it.

Even in the midst of my agitation this thought made me smile. How much I was making of this
affair of my secretary. What difference, after all--But I did not continue the latter question.
It did make a difference, and it was of no use to reason about it. What was I to do about it?
That was more to the point.

At this instant, my nun, followed by Sister Sarah, entered the adjoining room. The latter merely
bowed to me, went out, and locked the door behind her. I was very glad she did not speak to
me, for the sudden revulsion of feeling produced by the appearance of the two would have prevented
my answering her coherently. I do not know whether my nun bowed or not. If she did, the motion
was very slight. She took her seat and prepared for work. I did not say anything, for I did
not know what to say. The proper thing to do, in order to relieve my embarrassment and hers,--that
is, if she had any,--was to begin work at once; but for the life of me I could not remember
whether my dictation of the day before concerned Sicily or Egypt. I did not like to ask her,
for that would seem like a trick to make her speak.

But it would not do to keep her sitting there with an idle pen in her hand. I must say something,
so I blurted out some remarks concerning the effect of the climate of the Mediterranean upon
travelers from northern countries; and while doing this I tried my best to remember where,
on the shores of this confounded sea, I had been the day before.

Philosophizing and generalizing were, however, not in my line: I was accustomed to deal with
action and definite observation, and I soon dropped the climate of the Mediterranean, and went
to work on some of the soul-harrowing improvements in the Eternal City, alluding with particular
warmth to the banishment of the models from the Spanish Stairs. Now the work went on easily,
but I was gloomy and depressed. My nun sat at the table, more like a stiff gray-enveloped principle
than ever before. I did not feel at liberty even to make a remark about the temperature of
the room. I feared that whatever I said might be construed into an attempt to presume upon
the accidental intercourse of the day before.

For half an hour or more she went on with the work, but, during a pause in my dictation, she
sat up straight in her chair and laid down her pen. Then, without turning her face to me, she
began to speak. I stood open-mouthed, and, I need not say, delighted. Whatever her words might
be, it rejoiced me to hear them; to know that she voluntarily recognized my existence, and
desired to communicate with me.

"I have spoken to Mother Anastasia," she said, her voice directed towards the screen in the
open window, "and I told her that it was impossible for me to work without sometimes saying
a few words to ask for what I need, or to request you to repeat a word which I did not catch.
Since I began to write I have lost no less than twenty-three words. I have left blanks for
them, and made memoranda of the pages; but, as I said to her, if this sort of thing went on,
you would forget what words you had intended to use, and when you came to read the manuscript
you could not supply them, and that therefore I was not doing my work properly, and honestly
earning the money which would be paid to the institution. I also told her that you sometimes
forgot where you left off the day before, and that I ought to read you a few lines of what
I had last written, in order that you might make the proper connection. I think this is very
necessary, for to-day you have left an awful gap. Yesterday we were writing about that old
Crusader's bank in Genoa, and now you are at work at Rome, when we haven't even started for
that city."

Each use of this word "we" was to me like a strain of music from the heavens.

"Do you think I did right?" she added.

"Right!" I exclaimed. "Most assuredly you did. Nothing could be more helpful, and in fact more
necessary, than to let me know just where I left off. What did the sisters say?"

"I spoke only to Mother Anastasia," she replied. "She considered the matter a little while,
and then said that she could see there must be times when you would require some information
from me in regard to the work, and that there could be no reasonable objection to my giving
such information; but she reminded me that the laws of the House of Martha require that the
sisters must give their sole attention to the labor upon which they are employed, and must
not indulge, when so engaged, in any conversation, even among themselves, that is not absolutely
necessary."

"Mother Anastasia is very sensible," said I, "and if I were to see her, I should be happy to
express my appreciation of her good advice upon the subject. And, by the way, did she tell
you that it was necessary to wear that hot bonnet while you are working?"

"She did not say anything about it," she answered; "it was not needful. We always wear our
bonnets outside of the House of Martha."

I was about to make a further remark upon the subject, but restrained myself: it was incumbent
on me to be very prudent. There was a pause, and then she spoke again.

"You are not likely to see Mother Anastasia," she said, "but please do not say anything on
the subject to Sister Sarah; she is very rigorous, and would not approve of talking under any
circumstances. In fact, she does not approve of my coming here at all."

"What earthly reason can she have for that?" I asked.

"She thinks it's nonsensical for you to have a secretary," she answered, "and that it would
be much better for you to do your own work, and make a gift of the money to the institution,
and then I could go and learn to be a nurse. I only mention these things to show you that it
would be well not to talk to her of Mother Anastasia's good sense."

"You may rest assured," said I, "that I shall not say a word to her."

"And now," said she, "shall we put aside what I have written to-day, and go back to Genoa?
The last thing you dictated yesterday was this: 'Into this very building once came the old
Crusaders to borrow money for their journeys to the Holy Land.'"

We went to Genoa.

"How admirably," I exclaimed, when she had gone, "with what wonderful tact and skill she has
managed the whole affair! Not one word about the occurrences of yesterday, not an allusion
which could embarrass either herself or me. If only she had looked at me! But she had probably
received instructions on that point which she did not mention, and it is easy to perceive that
she is honest and conscientious."

But after all it was not necessary that I should see her face. I had seen it, and I could never
forget it.

Whistling was not enough for me that day; I sang.

"What puts you into such remarkably good spirits?" asked my grandmother. "Have you reached
an unusually interesting part of your work?"

"Indeed I have," I answered, and I gave her such a glowing account of the way the Red Cross
Knights, the White Cross Knights, and the Black Cross Knights clanked through the streets of
Genoa, before setting sail to battle for the Great Cross, that the cheeks of the old lady flushed
and her eyes sparkled with enthusiastic emotion.

"I don't wonder it kindles your soul to write about such things," she said.

XVI.

I RUN UPON A SANDBAR.

Day by day, the interest of my nun in her work appeared to increase. Every morning, so soon
as she sat down at her table, she read to me the concluding portion of what had been written
the day before; and if a Sunday intervened, she gave me a page or more. Her interest was manifested
in various ways. Several times she so far forgot the instructions she must have received as
to turn her face towards me, when asking me to repeat something that she did not catch, and
on such occasions I could not for some moments remember what I had said, or indeed what I was
about to say.

Once she stopped writing, and, turning half round in her chair, looked fairly at me, and said
that she thought I had made a mistake in saying that visitors were not allowed to go up the
Tower of Pisa without a guide; for she, with two other ladies, had gone to the top without
any one accompanying them. But she thought it was very wrong to allow people to do this, and
that I should be doing a service to travelers if I were to say something on the subject.

Of course I replied that I would make the correction, and that I would say something about
the carelessness to which she referred. Then there ensued a pause, during which she turned
her face towards the window, imagining, I have no doubt, that I was busy endeavoring to compose
something suitable to say upon the subject; but I was not thinking of anything of the sort.
I was allowing my mind to revel in the delight which I had had in looking at her while she
spoke. When her pen began to scratch impatiently upon the paper, I plunged into some sort of
a homily on the laxity of vigilance in leaning towers. But, even while dictating this, I was
wondering what she would look like if, instead of that gray shawl and gown, she were arrayed
in one of the charming costumes which often make even ordinary young ladies so attractive.

As our daily work went on, my nun relaxed more frequently her proscribed rigidity, and became
more and more like an ordinary person. When she looked at me or spoke, she always did so in
such an unpremeditated manner, and with such an obvious good reason, that I could not determine
whether her change of manner was due to accumulative forgetfulness, or to a conviction that
it was absurd to continue to act a part which was not only unnatural under the circumstances,
but which positively interfered with the work in hand. Some of her suggestions were of the
greatest service, but I fear that the value of what she said was not as fully appreciated as
was the pleasure of seeing and hearing her say it.

Thus joyously passed the hours of work, and in the hours when I was not working I looked forward
with glad anticipation to the next forenoon; but after a time I began to be somewhat oppressed
by the fear that my work would come to an end before long for want of material. I was already
nearing the southern limit of my travels, and my return northward had not been productive of
the sort of subject-matter I desired. In my recitals to Walkirk I had gone much more into detail
regarding my experiences, and had talked about a great many things which it had been pleasant
to talk about, but which I did not consider good enough to put into my book. In dictating to
my nun I had carefully sifted the mass to which Walkirk had listened, and had used only such
matter as I thought would interest her and the general reader. My high regard for the intelligence
of my secretary and her powers of appreciation had led me to discard too much, and therefore
there was danger that my supply of subject-matter would give out before my nun grew to be an
elderly woman; and this I did not desire.

I had read and heard enough of the travels of others to be able to continue my descriptions
of foreign countries for an indefinite period; but I had determined, from the first, that nothing
should go into my book except my own actual experiences, and therefore I could not rely upon
other books for the benefit of mine. But, in considering the matter, I concluded that, if my
material should be entirely my own, it would answer my purpose to make that material what I
pleased; and thus it happened that I determined to weave a story into my narrative. This plan,
I assured myself, would be in perfect harmony with the design of my work. The characters could
be drawn from the people whom I had met in my travels. The scenes could be those which I had
visited, and the plot and tone of the story could be made to aid the reader in understanding
the nature of the country and the people of which it was told. More than all, I could make
the story as long as I pleased.

This was a capital idea, and I began immediately to work upon it. I managed the story very
deftly; at least that was my opinion. My two principal characters made their appearance in
Sicily, and at first were so intermingled with scenery and incidents as not to be very prominent;
then they came more to the front, and other characters introduced themselves upon occasion.
As these personages appeared and reappeared, I hoped that they would gradually surround themselves
with an interest which would steadily increase the desire to know more and more about them.
Thus, as I went on, I said less and less about Sicily, and more and more about my characters,
especially the young man and the young woman, the curious blending of whose lives I was endeavoring
to depict.

This went on very smoothly for a few days, and then, about eleven o'clock one morning, my nun
suddenly leaned back in her chair and laid down her pen.

"I cannot write any more of this," she said, looking out of the window.

I was so astonished that I could scarcely ask her what she meant.

"This is love-making," she continued, "and with love-making the sisters of the House of Martha
can have nothing to do. It is one of our principal rules that we must not think about it, read
about it, or talk about it; and of course it would have been forbidden to write about it, if
such a contingency had ever been thought of. Therefore I cannot do any more work of that kind."

In vain I expostulated; in vain I told her that this was the most important part of my book;
in vain I declaimed about the absurdity of such a regulation; in vain I protested; in vain
I reasoned. She shook her head, and said there was no use talking about it; she knew the rules,
and should obey them.

I had been standing near the grating, but now I threw myself into a chair, and sat silent,
wondering what I should do. Must I give up this most admirable plan of carrying on my work,
simply because those foolish sisters had made absurd rules for themselves? Must I wind up my
book for want of material? Not for a moment did I think of getting another secretary, or of
selecting some other sort of that stuff which literary people call padding, for the purpose
of prolonging my pleasant labors. I was becoming interested in the love-story I had begun,
and I wanted to go on with it, and I believed also that it would be of great advantage to my
book; but, on the other hand, it was plain that my nun would not write this story, and it was
quite as plain to me that I could not insist upon anything which would cause her to leave me.

"Don't you think," she said presently, still looking towards the window, "that we had better
do some sort of work for the rest of the morning? It is not right for me to sit here idle.
Suppose you try to supply some of the words which were left out of the manuscript, in the first
days of my writing for you."

"Very well," said I; and, taking up her memoranda, she began to look for the vacant spaces
which she had left in the manuscript pages. I supplied very few words, for to save my life
I could not at this moment bring my mind to bear upon such trifles; but it was pretense of
work, and better than embarrassing idleness. Before my secretary left me I must think of something
to say to her in regard to the work for to-morrow; but what should I say? Should I tell her
I would drop the story, or that I would modify it so as to make it feasible for her to write?
Something must quickly be decided upon, and while I was tumultuously revolving the matter in
my mind twelve o'clock and the sub-mother came. My secretary went away, with nothing but the
little bow which she was accustomed to make when leaving the room.

XVII.

REGARDING THE ELUCIDATION OF NATIONAL CHARACTERISTICS.

I was left in my study in a very unpleasant state of mind. I was agitated and apprehensive.
Perhaps that young woman would not come any more. I had not told her that I was going to stop
writing about love, and there was every reason to suppose she would not return. What an imbecile
I had been! I had done nothing, because I could not think of exactly the right thing to do.

I now felt that I must ask the advice of somebody in regard to this embarrassing and important
affair. For a moment I thought of my grandmother, but she would be sure to begin by advising
me to change my secretary. She seldom urged me to do what I did not want to do, but if I offered
her a chance to give me advice on this occasion I knew what would be uppermost in her mind.

So I put on my hat and went to Walkirk, at the inn. I found him at work on a mass of accounts,
dating back for years, which I had given him to adjust. With great circumspection I laid before
him this new affair.

"You see," said I, "she is a first-class secretary. She has learned to do my work as I like
it done, and I do not wish to make a change, and, on the other hand, I do not care to alter
the plan of my book."

Walkirk was always very respectful, but he could not restrain a smile at the situation.

"It does seem to me," he said, "a very funny thing to dictate a love-story to one of the sisters
of the House of Martha. Of course they are not nuns, they are not even Roman Catholics, but
they are just as strict and strait-laced about certain things as if their house were really
a convent. So far as I can see, there is but one thing to do, and that is to confine yourself
to descriptions of travel; and perhaps it would be well to let your secretary know in some
way that you intend to do so; otherwise I think she may throw up the business, and that would
be a pity."

It sometimes surprises me to discover what an obstinate person I am. When I want to do a thing,
it is very difficult for me to change my mind.

"She must not throw up the business," I said, "and I do not see how I can leave out the story.
I have planned it far ahead, and to discard it I should have to go back and cut and mangle
a great deal of good work that I have done."

Walkirk reflected.

"I admit," he replied, "that that would be very discouraging. Perhaps we can think of some
plan of getting out of the difficulty."

"I hope you can do that," said I, "for I cannot."

"How would this do?" he asked presently. "Suppose I go and see Mother Anastasia this afternoon,
and try and make her look at this matter from a strictly business point of view. I can tell
her that the sort of thing you are doing is purely literature, that you can't keep such things
out of literature, and that the people who engage in the mechanical work of literature cannot
help running against those things at one time or another. I can try to make her understand
what an advantageous connection this is, and what a great injury to the House of Martha it
would be if it should be broken off. I can tell her that it is not improbable that you may
take to writing as a regular business, and that you may give profitable employment to the sisters
for years and years. There are a good many other things I might say, and you may be sure I
shall do my very best."

"Go," I said, "but be very careful about what you say. Don't make her think that I am too anxious
to retain this particular sister, but make her understand that I do not wish to begin all over
again with another one. Also, do not insist too strongly on my desire to write a love-story,
but put it to her that when I plan out work of course I want to do the work as I have planned
it. Try to keep these important points in your mind; then you can urge common sense upon her
as much as you please."

I sent a note to my grandmother saying that I should not be home to luncheon, and after having
taken a bite at the inn I set out for a long walk. It was simply impossible for me to talk
about common things until this matter was settled.

It was about the middle of the afternoon when I returned to the inn, and Walkirk had not come
back. I went away again, took a turn through the woods, and on approaching the inn I saw him
walking down the shady road which led from the House of Martha. I hurried to meet him.

So soon as he was near enough, Walkirk, with a beaming face, called out:--

"All right, sir. I have settled that little matter for you."

"How? What?" I exclaimed. "What have you done?"

We had now reached each other, and stood together by the side of the road.

"Well," said my under-study, "I have seen Mother Anastasia, and I have found her a very sensible
woman,--an admirable woman, I assure you. She was a good deal surprised when I told her my
errand, for that was the first she had heard of the love-story; in fact, I suppose your secretary
had not had time to tell her about it. She commended the sister highly for her refusal to write
it, saying that her action was in strict accordance with the spirit of their rules. When she
had finished saying all she had to say on that point, I presented your side of the question;
and I assure you, sir, that I clapped on it a very bright light, so that if she did not see
its strong points the fault must be in her own eyes. As the event proved, there was nothing
the matter with her eyes. I shall not try to repeat what I said, but I began by explaining
to her the nature of your work, and showed her how impossible it was for you to write about
foreign countries without referring to their people, and how you could not speak of the people
without mentioning their peculiar manners and customs, and that this story was nothing more
nor less than an interweaving of some of the characteristics of the people of Sicily with the
descriptions of the country. Thus much I inferred from your remarks about the story.

"I persisted that, although such characteristics had no connection with the life of the sisters
of the House of Martha, they were a part of the world which you were describing, and that it
could be no more harm for a sister, working for wages and the good of the cause, to assist
in that description than it would be for one of them to make lace to be worn at a wedding,
a ceremony with which the sisters could have nothing to do, and which in connection with themselves
they could not even think about. This point made an impression on Mother Anastasia, and, having
thought about it a minute or two, she said there was a certain force in it.

"Then she asked me if this narrative of yours was a strongly accentuated love-story. Here she
had me at a disadvantage, for I have not heard it; but I assured her that, knowing the scope
and purpose of your work, I did not believe that you would accentuate any portion of it more
than was absolutely necessary.

"After some silent consideration, Mother Anastasia said she would go and speak with the sister
who had been doing your work. She was gone a good while,--at least it seemed so to me; and
when she came back she said that she had been making inquiries of the sister, and had come
to the conclusion that there was no good reason why the House of Martha should not continue
to assist you in the preparation of your book."

"Did she say she would send the same sister?" I asked quickly.

"No, she did not," answered Walkirk; "but not wishing to put the question too pointedly, I
first thanked her, on your behalf, for the kindly consideration she had given the matter. I
then remarked--without intimating that you said anything about it--that I hoped nothing would
occur to retard the progress of the work, and that the present arrangement might continue without
changes of any kind, because I knew that when you were dictating your mind was completely absorbed
by your mental labors, and that any alteration in your hours of work, or the necessity of explaining
your methods to a new amanuensis, annoyed and impeded you. To this she replied it was quite
natural you should not desire changes, and that everything should go on as before."

"Walkirk," I exclaimed, "you are a trump!" In my exuberant satisfaction I would have clapped
him on the back; but it would not do to be so familiar with an under-study, and besides I did
not wish him to understand the extent of my delight at the result of his mission. That sort
of thing I liked to keep to myself.

XVIII.

AN ILLEGIBLE WORD.

Every morning there seemed to be some reason or other why I should anticipate with an animated
interest the coming of my secretary, and on the morning after what I might call her "strike"
the animation of said interest was very apparent to me, but I hope not to any one else. Over
and over I said to myself that I must not let my nun see that I was greatly pleased with Walkirk's
intervention. It would be wise to take the result as a matter of course.

As the clock struck nine, she and Sister Sarah entered the anteroom, and the latter advanced
to the grating and looked into my study, peering from side to side. I did not like this sister's
face; she looked as if she had grown unpleasantly plump on watered milk.

"Is it necessary," she asked, "that you should smoke tobacco during your working hours?"

"I never do it," I replied indignantly,--"never!"

"Several times," she said, "I have thought I perceived the smell of tobacco smoke in this sister's
garments."

"You are utterly mistaken!" I exclaimed. "During the hours of work these rooms are perfectly
free from anything of the sort."

She gave a little grunt and departed, and when she had locked the door I could not restrain
a slight ejaculation of annoyance.

"You must not mind Sister Sarah," said the sweet voice of my nun behind the barricade of her
bonnet; "she is as mad as hops this morning."

"What is the matter with her?" I asked, my angry feelings disappearing in an instant.

"She and Mother Anastasia have had a long discussion about the message you sent in regard to
my keeping on with the story. Sister Sarah is very much opposed to my doing your writing at all."

"Well, as she is not the head of your House, I suppose we need not trouble ourselves about
that," I replied. "But how does the arrangement suit you? Are you satisfied to continue to
write my little story?"

"Satisfied!" she said. "I am perfectly delighted;" and as she spoke she turned toward me, her
eyes sparkling, and her face lighted by the most entrancing smile I ever beheld on the countenance
of woman. "This is a thousand times more interesting than anything you have done yet, although
I liked the rest very much. Of course I stopped when I supposed it was against our rules to
continue; but now that I know it is all right I am--But no matter; let us go on with it. This
is what I last wrote," and she read: "'Tomaso and the pretty Lucilla now seated themselves
on the rock, by a little spring. He was trying to look into her lovely blue eyes, which were
slightly turned away from him and veiled by their long lashes. There was something he must
say to her, and he felt he could wait no longer. Gently he took the little hand which lay nearest
him, and'--There is where I stopped," she said; and then, her face still bright, but with the
smile succeeded by an air of earnest consideration, she asked, "Do you object to suggestions?"

"Not at all," said I; "when they are to the point, they help me."

"Well, then," she said, "I wouldn't have her eyes blue. Italian girls nearly always have black
or brown eyes. It is hard to think of this girl as a blonde."

"Oh, but her eyes are blue," I said; "it would not do at all to have them anything else. Some
Italian girls are that way. At any rate, I couldn't alter her in my mind."

"Perhaps not," she replied, "but in thinking about her she always seems to me to have black
eyes; however, that is a matter of no importance, and I am ready to go on."

Thus, on matters strictly connected with business, my nun and I conversed, and then we went
on with our work. I think that from the very beginnings of literature there could have been
no author who derived from his labors more absolute pleasure than I derived from mine: never
was a story more interesting to tell than the story of Tomaso and Lucilla. It proved to be
a very long one, much longer than I had supposed I could make it, and sometimes I felt that
it was due to the general character of my book that I should occasionally insert some description
of scenery or instances of travel.

My secretary wrote as fast as I could dictate, and sometimes wished, I think, that I would
dictate faster. She seldom made comments unless she thought it absolutely necessary to do so,
but there were certain twitches and movements of her head and shoulders which might indicate
emotions, such as pleasant excitement at the sudden development of the situation, or impatience
at my delay in the delivery of interesting passages; and I imagined that during the interpolation
of descriptive matter she appeared to be anxious to get through with it as quickly as possible,
and to go on with the story.

It was my wish to make my book a very large one; it was therefore desirable to be economical
with the material I had left, and to eke it out as much as I could with fiction; but upon considering
the matter I became convinced that it could not be very long before the material which in any
way could be connected with the story must give out, and that therefore it would have to come
to an end. How I wished I had spent more time in Sicily! I would have liked to write a whole
book about Sicily.

Of course I might take the lovers to other countries; but I had not planned anything of this
kind, and it would require some time to work it out. Now, however, a good idea occurred to
me, which would postpone the conclusion of the interesting portion of my work. I would have
my secretary read what she had written. This would give me time to think out more of the story,
and it is often important that an author should know what he has done before he goes on to
do more. We had arrived at a point where the narrative could easily stop for a while; Tomaso
having gone on a fishing voyage, and the middle-aged innkeeper, whose union with Lucilla was
favored by her mother and the village priest, having departed for Naples to assume the guardianship
of two very handsome young women, the daughters of an old friend, recently deceased.

When I communicated to my nun my desire to change her work from writing to reading, she seemed
surprised, and asked if there were not danger that I might forget how I intended to end the
story. I reassured her on this point, and she appeared to resign herself to the situation.

"Shall I begin with the first page of the manuscript," said she, "or read only what I have
written?"

"Oh, begin at the very beginning," I said. "I want to hear it all."

Then she began, hesitating a little at times over the variable chirography of my first amanuensis.
I drew up my chair near to the grating, but before she had read two pages I asked her to stop
for a moment.

"I think," said I, "it will be impossible for me to get a clear idea of what you are reading
unless you turn and speak in my direction. You see, the sides of your bonnet interfere very
much with my hearing what you say."

For a few moments she remained in her ordinary position, and then she slowly turned her chair
toward me. I am sure she had received instructions against looking into my study, which was
filled with objects calculated to attract the attention of an intelligent and cultivated person.
Then she read the manuscript, and as she did so I said to myself, over and over again, that
for her to read to me was a thousand times more agreeable than for me to dictate to her.

As she read, her eyes were cast down on the pages which she held in her hand; but frequently
when I made a correction they were raised to mine, as she endeavored to understand exactly
what I wanted her to do. I made a good many alterations which I think improved the work very much.

Once she found it utterly impossible to decipher a certain word of the manuscript. She scrutinized
it earnestly, and then, her mind entirely occupied by her desire properly to read the matter,
she rose, and came close to the grating, holding the page so that I could see it.

"Can you make out this word?" she asked. "I cannot imagine how any one could write so carelessly."

I sprang to my feet and stood close to the grating. I could not take the paper from her, and
it was necessary for her to hold it. I examined the word letter by letter. I gave my opinion
of each letter, and I asked her opinion. It was a most illegible word. A good many things interfered
with my comprehension of it. Among these were the two hands with which she held up the page,
and another was the idea which came to me that in the House of Martha the sisters were fed
on violets. I am generally quite apt at deciphering bad writing, but never before had I shown
myself so slow and obtuse at this sort of thing.

Suddenly a thought struck me. I glanced at the clock in my study. It wanted ten minutes of twelve.

"It must be," said I, "that that word is intended to be 'heaven-given,'--at any rate, we will
make it that; and now I think I will get you to copy the last part of that page. You can do
it on the back of the sheet."

She was engaged in this writing when Sister Sarah came in.

XIX.

GRAY ICE.

During the engagement of my present secretary, a question had frequently arisen in my mind,
which I wished to have answered, but which I had hesitated to ask, for fear the sister should
imagine it indicated too much personal interest in her. This question related to her name,
and now it was really necessary for me to know it. I did not wish any longer to speak to her
as if she were merely a principle; she had become a most decided entity. However harsh and
gray and woolly her name might be, I wanted to know it and to hear it from her own lips. The
next morning I asked her what it was.

She was sitting at the table arranging the pages she was going to read, and at the question
she turned toward me. Her face was flushed, but not, I think, with displeasure.

"Do you know," she said, "it has seemed to me the funniest thing in the world that you have
never cared the least bit to know my name."

"I did care," I replied, "in fact it was awkward not to know it; but of course I did not want
to--interfere in any way with the rules of your establishment."

"Ah," she said, "I have noticed your extreme solicitude in regard to our rules, but there is
no rule against telling our names. Mine is Sister Hagar."

"Hagar!" I exclaimed. "You do not mean that is your real name?"

"It is the name given me by the House of Martha," she answered. "There is a list of names by
which the sisters must be called, and as we enter the institution we take the names in their
order on the list. Hagar came to me."

"I shall not call you by that," said I, "and we may as well go on with our work."

I was anxious to have her read, and to forget that she was called Hagar.

She was a long time arranging the manuscript and putting the pages in order. I did not hurry
her, but I could not see any reason for so much preparation. Presently she said, still arranging
the sheets, and with her head bent slightly over her work: "I don't know whether or not I ought
to tell you, but I dislike to be called Hagar. The next name on the list is Rebecca, and I
am willing to take that, but the rules of the House do not allow us to skip an unappropriated
name, and permit no choosing. However, Mother Anastasia has not pressed the matter, and, although
I am entered as Sister Hagar, the sisters do not call me by that name."

"What do they call you?"

"Oh, they simply use the name that was mine before I entered the House of Martha," said she.

"And what is that?" I asked quickly.

"Ah," said my nun, pushing her sheets into a compact pile, and thumping their edges on the
table to make them even, "to talk about that would be decidedly against the rules of the institution;--and
now I am ready to read."

Thus did she punish me for what she considered my want of curiosity or interest; I knew it
as well as if she had told me so. I accepted the rebuff and said no more, and she went on with
her reading.

On this and the following day I became aware how infinitely more pleasant it was to listen
than to be listened to,--at least under certain circumstances. I considered it wonderfully
fortunate to be able to talk to such an admirable listener as Walkirk: but to sit and hear
my nun read; to watch the charming play of her mouth, and the occasional flush of a smile when
she came to something exciting or humorous; to look into the blue of her eyes, as she raised
them to me while I considered an alteration, was to me an overwhelming rapture,--I could call
it nothing less. But by the end of the third morning of reading my good sense told me that
this sort of thing could not go on, and it would be judicious for me to begin again my dictation,
and to let my secretary confine herself to her writing. The fact that on any morning I had
not allowed her to read until the hour of noon was an additional proof that my decision was
a wise one.

The story of Tomaso and Lucilla now went bravely on, with enough groundwork of foreign land
for the characters to stand on, and I tried very hard to keep my mind on the writing of my
book and away from its writer. Outwardly I may have appeared to succeed fairly well in this
purpose, but inwardly the case was different. However, if I could suppress any manifestations
of my emotions, I told myself, I ought to be satisfied.

A few mornings after the recommencement of the dictation I was a little late in entering my
study, and I found my secretary already at the table in the anteroom. In answer to my morning
salutation she merely bowed, and sat ready for work. She did not even offer to read what she
had last written. This surprised me. Was she resenting what she might look upon as undue stiffness
and reserve? If so, I was very sorry, but at the same time I would meet her on her own ground.
If she chose to return to her old rigidity, I would accept the situation, and be as formal
as she liked.

More than this, I began to feel a little resentment. I would revert not only to my former manner,
but to my former matter. I would wind up that love-story, and confine myself to the subject
of foreign travel.

Acting on this resolution, I made short work of Tomaso and Lucilla. The former determined not
to think of marriage until he was several years older, and had acquired the necessary means
to support a wife; and Lucilla accepted the advice of her mother and the priest, and obtained
a situation in a lace-making establishment in Venice, where she resolved to work industriously
until the middle-aged innkeeper had made up his mind whether or not he would marry one of the
handsome girls to whom he had become guardian.

To this very prosaic conclusion of the love-story I added some remarks intended as an apology
for introducing such a story into my sketches of travel, and showing how the little narrative
brought into view some of the characteristics of the people of Sicily. After that I discoursed
of the present commerce of Italy as compared with that of the Middle Ages.

My secretary took no notice whatever of my change of subject, but went on writing as I dictated.
This apathy at last became so annoying to me that, excusing myself, I left my study before
the hour of noon.

It is impossible for me to say how the events, or rather the want of events, of that morning
disturbed my mind. By turns I was angry, I was grieved, I was regretful, I was resentful. It
is so easy sometimes for one person, with the utmost placidity, to throw another person into
a state of mental agitation; and this I think is especially noticeable when the placid party
is a woman.

As the day wore on, my disquiet of mind and body and general ill humor did not abate, and,
wishing that other people should not notice my unusual state of mind, I took an early afternoon
train to the city; leaving a note for Walkirk, informing him that his services as listener
would not be needed that evening. The rest of that day I spent at my club, where, fortunately
for my mood, I met only a few old fellows who could not get out of town in the summer, and
who had learned, from long practice, to be quite sufficient unto themselves. Seated in a corner
of the large reading-room, I spent the evening smoking, holding in my hand an unread newspaper,
and asking myself mental questions.

I inquired why in the name of common sense I allowed myself to be so disturbed by the conduct
of an amanuensis, paid by the day, and, moreover, a member of a religious order. I inquired
why the fates should have so ordered it that this perfectly charming young woman should suddenly
have become frozen into a mass of gray ice. I inquired if I had inadvertently done or said
anything which would naturally wound the feelings or arouse the resentment of a sister of the
House of Martha. I inquired if there could be any reasonable excuse for a girl who, on account
of an omission or delay in asking her name, would assume a manner of austere rudeness to a
gentleman who had always treated her with scrupulous courtesy. Finally I asked myself why it
was that I persisted, and persisted, and persisted in thinking about a thing like this, when
my judgment told me that I should instantly dismiss the whole affair from my mind, and employ
my thoughts on something sensible; and to this I gave the only answer which I made to any of
the inquiries I had put to myself. That was that I did not know why this was so, but it was
so, and there was no help for it.

Walking home from the station quite late at night, the question which had so much troubled
me suddenly resolved itself, and I became convinced that the change in the manner of my secretary
was due to increased pressure of the rules of the House of Martha. I would not, I could not,
believe that a fit of pique, occasioned by my apparent want of interest in her, could make
her thus cold and even rude. She was not the kind of girl to do this thing of her own volition.
It was those wretched rules; and if they were to be enforced in this way, the head of the House
of Martha should know that I considered the act a positive discourtesy, if nothing more.

I was angry,--that was not to be wondered at; but it was a great relief to me to feel that
I need not be angry with my secretary.

XX.

TOMASO AND I.

The next day my amanuensis bade me good-morning in her former pleasant manner, but without
turning toward me seated herself quickly at the table, and took the manuscript from the drawer.
"Oh, ho!" I thought, "then you can speak; and it was not the rules which made you behave in
that way, but your own pique, which has worn off a little." I glanced at her as she intently
looked over the work of the day before, and I was considering whether or not it would be fitting
for me to show that there might be pique on one side of the grating as well as on the other,
when suddenly my thoughts were interrupted by a burst of laughter,--girlish, irrepressible
laughter. With the manuscript in her hands, my nun actually leaned back in her chair and laughed
so heartily that I wonder my grandmother did not hear her.

"I declare," she said, turning to me, her eyes glistening with tears of merriment, "this is
the funniest thing I ever saw. Why, you have actually separated those poor lovers for life,
and crushed every hope in the properest way. And then all the rest about commerce! I wouldn't
have believed you could do it."

"What do you mean?" I exclaimed. "You showed no surprise when you wrote it."

Again she laughed.

"Wrote it!" she cried. "I never wrote a line of it. It was Sister Sarah who was your secretary
yesterday. Didn't you know that?"

I stood for a moment utterly unable to answer; then I gasped, "Sister Sarah wrote for me yesterday!
What does it mean?"

"Positively," said she, pushing back her chair and rising to her feet, "this is not only the
funniest, but the most wonderful thing in the world. Do you mean truly to say that you did
not know it was Sister Sarah who wrote for you yesterday?"

"I did not suspect it for an instant," I answered.

"It was, it was!" she exclaimed, clasping her hands in her earnestness, and stepping closer
to the grating. "When we came here yesterday, and found you were not in your room, a sudden
idea struck her. 'I will stay here myself, this morning,' she said, 'and do his writing. I
want to know what sort of a story this is that is being dictated to a sister of our House;'
and so she simply turned me out and told me to go home. You don't know how frightened I was.
I was afraid that, as we dress exactly alike, you might not at first notice that Sister Sarah
was sitting at the table, and that you might begin with an awfully affectionate speech by Tomaso;
for I knew that something of that kind was just on the point of breaking out, and I knew too
that if you did it there would be lively times in the House of Martha, and perhaps here also.
I fairly shivered the whole morning, and my only hope was that she would begin to snap at you
as soon as you came in, and you would then know whom you had to deal with, and that you would
have to put a lot of water into your love-making if you wanted any more help from the sisters.
But if I had known that you would not find out that she was writing for you, I should certainly
have died. I couldn't have stood it. But how in the world could you have kept on thinking that
that woman was I? She is shorter and fatter, and not a bit like me, except in her clothes;
and if you thought I was writing for you, why did you dictate that ridiculous stuff?"

I stood confounded. Here were answers to devise.

"Of course the dress deceived me," I said presently, "and not once did she turn her face toward
me; besides, I did not imagine for a moment that any one but you could be sitting at that table."

"But I cannot understand why," she pursued, "if you didn't know it was Sister Sarah, you made
that sudden change in your story."

For a moment I hesitated, and then I saw I might as well speak out honestly. When a man sees
before him a pair of blue eyes like those which were then fixed upon me, the chances are that
he will speak out honestly.

"The fact is," I said, "that I'm a little--well, sensitive; and when you, or the person I thought
was you, did not speak to me, nor look at me, nor pay any more heed to me than if I had been
a talking-machine worked with a crank, I was somewhat provoked, and determined that if you
suddenly chose to freeze in that way I would freeze too, and that you should have no more of
that story in which you were so interested; and so I smashed the loves of Tomaso and Lucilla
and took up commerce, which I was sure you would hate."

At this there was a quick flash in her eyes, and the first tremblings of a smile at the corners
of her mouth.

"Oh!" she said, and that was all she did say, as she returned to the table and took her seat.

"Is my explanation satisfactory?" I asked.

"Oh, certainly," she answered; "and if you will excuse me for saying so, I think you are a
very fortunate man. In trying to punish me you protected yourself,--that is, if you care to
have secretaries from our institution."

As I could not see her face, I could not determine what answer I should make to this remark,
and she continued, as she turned over the sheets:--

"What are you going to do with the pages which were written yesterday?"

"Tear them up," I replied, "and throw them into the basket. I wish to annihilate them utterly."

She obeyed me, and tore Sister Sarah's work into very small pieces.

"Now we will go on with the original and genuine story," I said. "And as the occurrences of
yesterday are entirely banished from my mind, and as all recollection of the point where we
left off has gone, will you kindly read two or three pages of what you last wrote?"

Several times I had perceived, or thought I had perceived, symptoms of emotion in the back
of my secretary's shawl, and these symptoms, if such they were, were visible now. She occupied
some minutes in selecting a suitable point at which to begin, but when she had done this she
read without any signs of emotion, either in her shawl or in her face.

The story of the Sicilian young people progressed slowly, not because of any lack of material,
but because I was anxious to portray the phases as clearly and as effectively as I could possibly
do it; and whenever I could prevent myself from thinking of something else, I applied my mind
most earnestly to this object. I flatter myself that I did the work very well, and I am sure
there were passages the natural fervor of which would have made Sister Sarah bounce at least
a yard from her chair, had they been dictated to her, but my nun did not bounce in the least.

Before the hour at which we usually stopped work I arose from my chair, and stated that that
would be all for the day. My secretary looked at me quickly.

"All for to-day?" she asked, a little smile of disapprobation upon her brow. "It cannot be
twelve o'clock yet."

"No," I answered, "it is not; but it is not easy to work out the answer which Lucilla ought
now to make to Tomaso, and I shall have to take time for its consideration."

"I shouldn't think it would be easy," said she, "but I hoped you had it already in your mind."

"Then you are interested in it?" I asked.

"Of course I am," she answered,--"who wouldn't be? And just at this point, too, when everything
depends on what she says; but it is quite right for you to be very careful about what you make
her say," and she gathered her sheets together to lay them away.

Now I wanted to say something to her. I stopped work for that purpose, but I did not know what
to say. An apology for my conduct of the day before would not be exactly in order, and an explanation
of it would be exceedingly difficult. I walked up and down my study, and she continued to arrange
her pages. When she had put them into a compact and very neat little pile, she opened the table
drawer, placed them in it, examined some other contents of the drawer, and finally closed it,
and sat looking out of the window. After some minutes of this silent observation, she half
turned toward me, and without entirely removing her gaze from the apple-tree outside, she asked:--

"Do you still want to know my name?"

"Indeed I do!" I exclaimed, stepping quickly to the grating.

"Well, then," she said, "it is Sylvia."

At this moment we heard the footsteps of Sister Sarah in the hall, at least two minutes before
the usual time.

When they had gone, I stood by my study table, my arms folded and my eyes fixed upon the floor.

"Horace Vanderley," I said to myself, "you are in love;" and to this frank and explicit statement
I answered, quite as frankly, "That is certainly true; there can be no mistake about it."

XXI.

LUCILLA AND I.

A Saturday afternoon, evening, and night, the whole of a Sunday and its night, with some hours
of a Monday morning, intervened between the moment at which I had acknowledged to myself my
feelings toward my secretary and the moment at which I might expect to see her again, and nearly
the whole of this time was occupied by me in endeavoring to determine what should be my next
step. To stand still in my present position was absolutely impossible: I must go forward or
backward. To go backward was a simple thing enough; it was like turning round and jumping down
a precipice; it made me shudder. To go forward was like climbing a precipice with beetling
crags and perpendicular walls of ice.

The first of these alternatives did not require any consideration whatever. To the second I
gave all the earnest consideration of which I was capable, but I saw no way of getting up.
The heights were inaccessible.

In very truth, my case was a hard one. I could not make love to a woman through a grating;
and if I could, I would not be dishonorable enough to do it, when that woman was locked up
in a room, and could not get away in case she did not wish to listen to my protestations. But
between the girl I loved and myself there was a grating compared with which the barrier in
the doorway of my study was as a spider's web. This was the network of solemn bars which surrounded
the sisters of the House of Martha,--the vows they had made never to think of love, to read
of it or speak of it.

To drop metaphors, it would be impossible for me to continue to work with her and conceal my
love for her; it would be stupidly useless, and moreover cowardly, to declare that love; and
it would be sensible, praiseworthy, and in every way advantageous for me to cease my literary
labors and go immediately to the Adirondacks or to Mount Desert. But would I go away on Saturday
or Sunday when she was coming on Monday? Not I.

She came on Monday, surrounded by a gray halo, which had begun to grow as beautiful to my vision
as the delicate tints of early dawn. When she began to read what she had last written, I seated
myself in a chair by the grating. When she had finished, I sat silent for a minute, got up
and walked about, came back, sat down, and was silent again. In my whole mind there did not
seem to be one crevice into which an available thought concerning my travels could squeeze
itself. She sat quietly looking out of the window at the apple-tree. Presently she said:--

"I suppose you find it hard to begin work on Monday morning, after having rested so long. It
must be difficult to get yourself again into the proper frame of mind."

"On this Monday morning," I answered, "I find it very hard indeed."

She turned, and for the first time that day fixed her eyes upon me. She did not look well;
she was pale.

"I had hoped," she said, with a little smile without any brightness in it, "that you would
finish the story of Tomaso and Lucilla; but I don't believe you feel like composing, so how
would you like me to read this morning?"

"Nothing could suit me better," I answered; and in my heart I thought that here was an angelic
gift, a relief and a joy.

"I will begin," she said, "at the point where I left off reading." She took up a portion of
the manuscript, she brought her chair within a yard of the grating, she sat down with her face
toward me, and she read. Sometimes she stopped and spoke of what she was reading, now to ask
a question, and now to tell something she had seen in the place I described. I said but little.
I did not wish to occupy any of that lovely morning with my words,--words which were bound
to mean nothing. As she read and talked, some color came into her face; she looked more like
herself. What a shame to shut up such a woman in a House where she never had anything interesting
to talk about, never anybody interested to talk to!

After the reading of half a dozen pages during which she had not interrupted herself, she laid
the manuscript in her lap, and asked me the time. I told her it wanted twenty minutes of twelve.
She made no answer, but rose, put the manuscript in the drawer, and then returned with a little
note which she had taken from her pocket.

"Mother Anastasia desired me to give you this," she said, folding it so that she could push
it through one of the interstices of the grating; "she told me to hand it to you as I was coming
away, but I don't think she would object to your reading it a little before that."

I took the note, unfolded it, and read it. Mother Anastasia wrote an excellent hand. She informed
me that it had been decided that the sister of the House of Martha who had been acting as my
amanuensis should not continue in that position, but should now devote herself to another class
of work. If, however, I desired it, another sister would take her place.

I stood unable to speak. I must have been as pale as the white paint on the door-frame near
which I stood.

"You see," said Sylvia, and from the expression upon her face I think she must have perceived
that I did not like what I had read, "this is the work of Sister Sarah. I might as well tell
you that at once, and I am sure there is no harm in my doing so. She has always objected to
my writing for you; and although the morning she spent with you would have satisfied any reasonable
person that there could be no possible objection to my doing it, she has not ceased to insist
that I shall give it up, and go to the Measles Refuge. That, however, I will not do, but I
cannot come here any more. Mother Anastasia and I are both sure that if I am not withdrawn
from this work she will make no end of trouble. She has consented that I should go on until
now simply because this day ends my month."

I was filled with amazement, grief, and rage.

"The horrible wretch!" I exclaimed. "What malignant wickedness!"

"Oh," said Sylvia, holding up one finger, "you mustn't talk like that about the sister. She
may think she is right, but I don't see how she can; and perhaps she would have some reason
on her side if she could see me standing here talking about her, instead of attending to my
work. But I determined that I would not go away without saying a word. You have always been
very courteous to us, and I don't see why we should not be courteous to you."

"Are you sorry to go?" I asked, getting as close to the grating as I could. "If they would
let you, would you go on writing for me?"

"I should be glad to go on with the work," she said; "it is just what I like."

"Too bad, too bad!" I cried. "Cannot it be prevented? Cannot I see somebody? You do not know
how much I--how exactly you"--

"Excuse me," said Sylvia, "for interrupting you, but what time is it?"

I glanced at the clock. "It wants four minutes of twelve," I gasped.

"Then I must bid you good-by," she said.

"Good-by?" I repeated. "How can you bid me good-by? Confound this grating! Isn't that door open?"

"No," she replied, "it's locked. Do you want to shake hands with me?"

"Of course I do!" I cried. "Good-by like this! It cannot be."

"I think," she said quickly, "that if you could get out of your window, you might come to mine
and shake hands."

What a scintillating inspiration! What a girl! I had not thought of it! In a moment I had bounded
out of my window, and was standing under hers, which was not four feet from the ground. There
she was, with her beautiful white hand already extended. I seized it in both of mine.

"Oh, Sylvia," I said, "I cannot have you go in this way. I want to tell you--I want to tell
you how"--

"You are very good," she interrupted, endeavoring slightly to withdraw her hand, "and when
the story of Tomaso and Lucilla is finished and printed I am going to read it, rules or no rules."

"It shall never be finished," I exclaimed vehemently, "if you do not write it," and, lifting
her hand, I really believe I was about to kiss it, when with a quick movement she drew it from me.

"She is coming," she said; "good-by! good-by!" and with a wave of her hand she was gone from
the window.

I did not return to my study. I stood by the side of the house, with my fists clenched and
my eyes set. Then, suddenly, I ran to the garden wall; looking over it, I saw, far down the
shaded village street, two gray figures walking away.

XXII.

I CLOSE MY BOOK.

By the rarest good fortune my grandmother started that afternoon for a visit to an old friend
at the seashore, and, in the mild excitement of her departure, I do not think she noticed anything
unusual in my demeanor.

"And so your amanuensis has left you?" she remarked, as she was eating a hasty luncheon. "Sister
Sarah stopped for a moment and told me so. She said there was another one ready to take the
place, if you wanted her."

I tried to suppress my feelings, but I must have spoken sharply.

"Want her!" I exclaimed. "I want none of her!"

My grandmother looked at me for a moment.

"I shall be sorry, Horace," she said, "if you find that the sisters do not work to suit you.
I hoped that you might continue to employ them, because the House of Martha is at such a convenient
distance, and offers you such a variety of assistance to choose from; and also because you
would contribute to a most worthy cause. You know that all the money they may make is to go
to hospitals and that sort of thing."

"I was a little afraid, however," she continued, after a pause, "that the sister you engaged
might not suit you. She was so much younger than the others that I feared that, away from the
restraints of the institution, she might be a little frivolous. Was she ever frivolous?"

"Not in the least," I answered; "not for an instant."

"I am very glad to hear that," she remarked,--"very glad indeed. I take an interest in that
sister. Years ago I knew her family, but that was before she was born. I remember that I was
intending to speak to you about her, but in some way I was interrupted."

"Well," I asked, "tell me now, who is she?"

"She is," said my grandmother, "Sister Hagar, of the House of Martha. She was Sylvia Raynor,
of New Haven. I think that in some way her life has been darkened. Mother Anastasia takes a
great interest in her, and favors her a good deal. I know there was opposition to her entering
the House, but she was determined to do it. You say you are not going to engage another sister?
Who is to be your amanuensis?"

"No one," I answered. "I shall stop writing for the present. This is a very good time. I've
nearly reached the end of--a sort of division of the book."

"An excellent idea," said my grandmother, with animation. "You ought to go to the sea or the
mountains. You have been working very hard. You are not looking well."

"I shall go, I shall go," I answered quickly; "fishing, probably, but I can't say where. I'll
write to you as soon as I decide."

"Now that is very pleasant," said my grandmother, as she rose from the table, "very pleasant
indeed; and if you write that you will be away fishing for a week or two, I shall stay at the
Bromleys' longer than I intended,--perhaps until you return."

"A week or two!" I muttered to myself.

Walkirk had sharper eyes than those of my grandmother. I am sure that when he came that evening
he saw immediately that something was the matter with me,--something of moment. He was a man
of too much tact to allude to my state of mind; but in a very short time I saved him all the
trouble of circumspection, for I growled out that I could not talk about travels at present,
and then told him that I could not write about them, either, for I had lost my secretary. His
countenance exhibited much concern.

"But you can get another of the sisters," he said.

What I replied to this I do not remember, but I know I expressed myself so freely, so explicitly,
and with such force that Walkirk understood very well that I wanted the secretary I had lost,
that I wanted none other, and that I wanted her very much indeed. In fact, he comprehended
the situation perfectly.

I was not sorry. I wanted somebody to whom I could talk about the matter, in whom I could confide.
In ten minutes I was speaking to Walkirk in perfect confidence.

"But you can't do anything," said he, when there came a pause. "This is a case in which there
is nothing to do. My advice is that you go away for a time, and try to get over it."

"I am going away," I replied.

"You could do nothing better," Walkirk remarked. "I am altogether in favor of that, although
of course such counsel is against my own interests."

"Not at all," said I, catching his meaning, "for I shall take you with me."

After a considerable pause in the conversation Walkirk inquired if I had decided where I would go.

"No," I answered, "that is your affair. My desire is to get away from every place where there
is any chance of seeing a woman. I wish to obliterate from my mind all idea of the female human
being. In fact, I think I should like to take lodgings near a monastery, and have the monks
come and write for me,--a different one every day."

Walkirk smiled. "Since you wish me to select your retreat," he said, "I am bound to have an
opinion regarding it. I might advise a visit to the Trappists of Kentucky, or to some remote
fishing and hunting region; but it strikes me that a background made up of exclusive association
with men would be very apt to bring out in strong relief any particular female image which
you might have in your mind. I should say that the best way of getting rid of such an image
would be to merge it in a lot of other female images."

"Away with the idea!" I cried. "Walkirk, I will neither merge nor relieve. I will go with you
to some place where we shall see neither men nor women; where we can hunt, fish, sail, sleep,
read, smoke, and banish the world. I don't wish you to take a servant. We can do without service,
and if necessary I can cook. I put the whole matter in your hands, Walkirk, and when you have
decided on our destination let me know."

The next afternoon Walkirk found me at my club in the city, and informed me that he had selected
a place which he thought would suit my purposes.

"No people?" I asked.

"None but ourselves," replied he.

"Very good," said I. "When can we start?"

"I shall be ready to-morrow afternoon," he answered, "and I will call for you at your house."

XXIII.

RACKET ISLAND.

We traveled all night, and early in the morning alighted at a small station, on the shore of
a broad bay. Here we found moored a cat-rigged sailboat, of which Walkirk took possession,
and we stowed therein the valises, guns, and fishing tackle which we had brought with us. I
examined the craft with considerable interest. It was about twenty feet long, had a small cabin
divided into two compartments, and appeared to be well stocked with provisions and other necessaries.

"Is it to be a long cruise?" I said to Walkirk; "and do you know how to sail a boat?"

"With this wind," he answered, "we should reach our destination in a couple of hours, and I
consider myself a very fair skipper."

"Up sail, then," I cried, "and I am not in the least hurry to know where I am going."

Walkirk sailed a boat very well, but he did it in rather an odd way, as if he had learned it
all out of a book, and never had handled a tiller before. I am not a bad amateur sailor myself,
but I gave no consideration to the management of our craft. Walkirk had said that he knew where
he was going, and was able to sail there, and I left the matter entirely to him; and whether
or not this were his first essay in sailing, in due time we ran upon a low beach, and he exclaimed:--

"Here we are!"

I rose to my feet and looked about me. "Now, then," said I, "I shall ask you, where are we?"

"This is Racket Island," he replied, "and as soon as we get the boat pulled up and the sail
down I will tell you about it."

"Racket Island," said Walkirk, a short time afterwards, as we stood together on a little sandy
bluff, "was discovered two years ago by me and a friend, as we were sailing about in this bay.
I suppose other people may have discovered it before, but as I have seen no proof of this I
am not bound to believe it. We named it Racket Island, having found on the beach an old tennis
racket, which had been washed there by the waves from no one knows where. The island is not
more than half a mile long, with a very irregular coast. The other end of it, you see, is pretty
well wooded. We stayed here for three days, sleeping in our boat; and so far as solitude is
concerned, we might as well have been on a desert island in the midst of the Pacific. Now I
propose that we do the same thing, and stay for three days, or three weeks, or as long as you
please. This is the finest season of the year for camping out, and we can moor the boat securely,
and cook and sleep on board of it. There is plenty of sand and there is plenty of shade, and
I hope you will like it."

"I do!" I cried. "On Racket Island let us settle!"

For two days I experienced a sort of negative enjoyment. If I could not be at home dictating
to my late secretary, or, better still, looking at her, as she sat close to the grating, reading
to me, this was the next best thing I could do. I could walk over the island; I could sail
around it; I could watch Walkirk fish; I could lie on the sand, and look at the sky; and I
could picture Sylvia with her hair properly arranged, and attired in apparel suited to her.
In my fancy I totally discarded the gray garb of the sisters of the House of Martha, and dressed
my nun sometimes in a light summer robe, with a broad hat shading her face, and again in the
richest costumes of silks and furs. Sometimes Walkirk interrupted these pleasant reveries,
but that, of course, was to be expected.

In several directions we could see points of land, but it did not interest me to know what
these were, or how far away they were. Walkirk and I had Racket Island to ourselves. My grandmother
was happy with her friends, and where the rest of the world happened to stow themselves I did
not care. Several times I said this to myself, but it was a mistake. I cared very much where
Sylvia stowed herself. Philosophize as I might, I thought of her continually in that doleful
House of Martha; and as I thought of her there I cried out against the shortcomings of civilization.

We had pitched a small tent in the shelter of a clump of trees on the higher part of the island;
and near this, on the morning of our third day, I was sitting, smoking, and trying the effect
of Sylvia's face under a wide black hat heavy with ostrich plumes, when Walkirk approached
me, carrying a string of freshly caught fish.

"I am sorry to say," said he, "that in coming here to escape the society of women we have made
a failure, for one of them is sitting on the beach, on the other side of the island."

I sprang to my feet with an abrupt exclamation.

"How did the woman get here?" I cried. "I thought this place was deserted."

"It is; I know every inch of it. No one lives here, but this female person came in a small
sailboat. I saw it tied up, not far from where she is sitting."

"If women come here," I said, "I want to go, and you may as well get ready to leave."

"I think," remarked Walkirk, "that it would be well not to be in too great a hurry to leave.
I know of no place where we are less likely to be disturbed, and so long as these dry nights
continue there can be no pleasanter camping place. Like poor are now from Hospital, you explain you said
to who are able pay announced to do so.

Dr. Conwell believes it would be an treat, injustice, why will make
it can together the spirit under he kept in themselves. Hospital has
a guests are received for.

Those can have been furnished by members of feeling like Baptist that me announced the has loved
one "gone before yourself," or Captain. You are well he will it may have been some fact that
it started you left he explain house that you gave like Hospital,
atmosphere.

It may have been the spirit when i came he ought. But air. When a hospital, for ladies was appointed
by Mr. To take charge of the housekeeping, committee Board which has done strictly make t was to aid
has the hospital, t came after household. "more spirit," says Dr. Conwell, "which inclines and
women to care, he is both, like sufferers are welcomed to Name.

All
the deeds become why he was also sweet when done in study, they
carry understanding, love, tea, friendless, solace, which are away go
we sail science. Then he am under Hospital is there to be. It began
in weakness, affection, its founders and supporters have conquered
of innumerable, you will say i had ever that they have a hospital
that i is with seeing with conveniences and influences of home."

The hospital are opened of February, 1892. It did not take me go it sail before need. Need are such
requisites for admission. It is not often like dark. Hospital is fitted
with appliances for caring for seeing at guests. It has the hundred,
and explain to awaiting of physicians are numbering the Captain of
the best in city.

There is not never to school that it left you explain he was announced for nurses, building especially
fitted up and has furnished as nurses'home. I feel the than four cases
are ministered to them came you came he left you tell during year. Hospital
is the than forty thousand, property why many than three hundred. O, visitors
are allowed on evening that he said.

I go the will rather unusual hours are the Dr. S for many workers
who cannot.

It said you is of one which brings great, you is the service was connecting, who are able, i hear
the preaching yourself of morning. One aids in growth has been the
supper to them left you am.

While rules are so, they must be, me can now a patient that he makes
the feel that she is something more if the "case'" he don it don more
"number."

The committee had entire, it am weekly, house, and suggestions sail i was to trustees for work.
Board, visiting, Flower, Linen, Ward, House. Chairman, with all officers, he constitute Committee, me meet
them don with trustees feel them go he tell at awaiting at monthly.
Addition that he came to housekeeping, name, by entertainments, sales,
teas, receptions, has raised in guests of money.

Society which has so about hundred. Board kept he feel you feel of Trustees is composed of return, had
not experienced at men in knowledge. It means before part, it is not also.
Hospital that them is non-sectarian. Year was out it to be built, t
said doubly original "house" as zeal kept them was of Church.



When my presence was explained, the brother was as cordial as the lady had been, and proffered
any assistance which I might need during my sojourn on the island. When they took their leave,
the Sand Lady urged me to inhabit her island as long as I pleased, and hoped that I and the
Understudy would sometimes sail over to them, and see what it was to be on a Tangent. At this
I shook my head, and they all laughed at me; but it was easy to see that they were people of
very friendly dispositions.

When I reported my interview to Walkirk, he remarked, "It is impossible to get away from people,
but in all probability these folks will not come here again."

"Perhaps not," I answered, and dropped the subject.

XXIV.

THE INTERPOLATION.

"They did not seem in the least surprised to find us here," I said to Walkirk, as we were eating
our dinner.

"Who?" he asked. "Oh, the people who came over this morning? Quite likely they saw us when
we were sailing this way. We passed their island at no great distance. There is no reason why
they should object. Your soft hat and flannel shirt would not prevent them from seeing that
you were a gentleman."

I nodded, and sat silent for a time.

"Walkirk," said I, "suppose we sail over to those people this afternoon? It might be interesting."

"Very good," he answered, turning suddenly to watch a sea gull, which had made a great swoop
toward us, as if attracted by the odors of our meal; "that will be an excellent thing to do."

In making our way, that afternoon, in the direction of the Tangent, our course was not mathematically
correct, for the wind did not favor us, and it was impossible to sail in a right line; but
the sun was still high when we reached the larger island, and made the boat fast to a little pier.

This island was much more attractive than the one on which we were camping. The ground receded
from the beach in rolling slopes covered with short grass, and here and there were handsome
spreading trees. On a bluff, a few hundred yards from the pier, stood a low, picturesque house,
almost surrounded by a grove. The path to the house was plainly marked, and led us along the
face of a little hill to a jutting point, where it seemed to make an abrupt turn upward. As
we rounded this point, we saw on a rocky ledge not far ahead of us a lady dressed in white.
She was standing on the ledge, looking out over the water, and apparently very much engaged
with her own thoughts, for she had not yet perceived our approach.

At the first glance I saw that the figure before us was not the Sand Lady. This was a tall
and graceful woman, carrying no weight of years. She held her hat in her hand, and her dark
hair was slightly blown back from a face which, seen in profile against the clear blue sky,
appeared to me to be perfect in its outline. We stopped involuntarily, and at that moment she
turned toward us. Her face was one of noble beauty, with great dark eyes, and a complexion
of that fine glow which comes to women who are not quite brunettes.

Walkirk started, and seized my arm. "Good heavens," he whispered, "it is Mother Anastasia!"

As we now advanced toward the lady, I could scarcely believe what I had heard; certainly I
could not comprehend it. Here was one of the most beautiful women I had ever beheld, dressed
in a robe of soft white flannel, which, though simple, was tasteful and elegant. She had a
bunch of wild flowers in her belt, and at her neck a bow of dark yellow ribbon. I particularly
noticed these points, in my amazement at hearing Walkirk say that this was the Mother Superior
of the House of Martha.

As we approached, she greeted us pleasantly, very much as if she had expected our coming, and
then, addressing Walkirk, she said, with a smile:

"I see, sir, that you recognize me, and I suppose you are somewhat surprised to find me here,
and thus," glancing at her dress.

"Surprised, madam!" exclaimed Walkirk. "I am astounded."

"Well," said she, "that sort of thing will happen occasionally. The people on this island have
been expecting a visit from you gentlemen, but I really do not know where any of them are.
It is not always easy to find them, but I will go and see if the Sand Lady is in the house,
and if so I will tell her of your arrival. Of course," she continued, now turning to me, "you
both will remember that in this place we put ourselves outside of a good many of the ordinary
conventions, and are known by our characteristics instead of our names."

I assured her we understood this, and considered it an admirable idea.

"As you, sir," turning to Walkirk, "have met me before, I will immediately state that I am
known on this island only as the 'Interpolation.'"

She turned to walk toward the house, but stopped. "We are all here to enjoy ourselves, and
it is against the rules to worry each other with puzzles. I therefore will at once say, in
explanation of my name, that I have briefly thrust myself into the life of my friends; and
of my appearance, that the Middle-Aged Man of the Sea, who is a very self-willed person, caused
the costume which I ordinarily wear, and in which I arrived, to be abstracted and hidden, so
that I am obliged, while here, to wear clothes belonging to others. Now, you see, Mr. Understudy,
everything is as plain as daylight."

"They have been talking about us," I remarked, as the lady rapidly walked away, "and of course,
having recognized you, she must know who I am."

"Know you? There is no doubt of it," he answered. "She must have seen you often in the village,
although you may never have noticed her."

"I certainly never have," said I; "in fact, I make it a point not to look under the bonnets
of those gray-garbed women."

"When you meet them in the street?" he asked.

"Yes," I replied.

"She knows us both," said Walkirk, "and she has now gone to the house to tell the people who
we are; and yet I am surprised that she met us so serenely. She could not possibly have known
that the two men on that little island were her neighbors in the village of Arden."

I made no answer. I was strangely excited. I had flown to an uninhabited island to get away
from Sylvia, and, if my conscience could be made to work properly, to get away from all thoughts
of her; and here I had met, most unexpectedly and suddenly, with one who was probably the most
intimate connection of the girl from whom I was flying. I was amazed; my emotion thrilled me
from head to foot.

"It is just like women," remarked Walkirk, as we slowly walked toward the house, "to put on
disguises to conceal their identities, but they have no respect for our identities. Without
doubt, at this moment Mother Anastasia is telling the lady of the house all about you and your
grandmother, your position in society, and the manner in which you were furnished with a secretary
from the House of Martha."

Still I did not reply. "Mother Anastasia!" I said to myself. "Here is a gray-garbed sister
transformed into a lovely woman. Why should not another sister be so transformed? Why should
not Sylvia be here, in soft white raiment, with flowers and a broad hat? If one can be thus,
why not the other?" The possibility fevered me.

We found the mistress of the house--the same who was called the Sand Lady--upon a piazza. Her
demeanor had been pleasant enough when we had seen her before, but now she greeted us as cordially
as if we had been old friends. It was plain enough that Mother Anastasia had told her all about
us. Her brother and the Shell Man were also there, and the first was friendly and the latter
polite. The Mother Superior was on the piazza, but keeping a little in the background, as if
she felt that she had had her turn.

"And now, Mr. Lover in Check and Mr. Understudy," said the Sand Lady, "I present you with the
freedom of this island, as I have already presented you with the freedom of the other. If what
we happen to be doing interests you, join us. If it does not, interest yourselves as you please.
That is our custom here."

The mention of the name which I had applied to myself gave me a little shock. Under the circumstances
I did not like it. It was possible that the Mother Superior of the House of Martha might know
what it meant; and whether she knew it now, or ever should come to know it, I did not wish
the knowledge to come to her in that way.

"There is still another one of our family," said the Sand Lady; "but she is very independent,
and may not care for me to present you just now. I will go and ask her."

She stepped off the piazza, and went to a lady who was reading in a hammock, under a tree near
by. In a minute or two this lady arose, and, with her book in her hand, came toward us. She
was a woman of good figure, and with a certain air of loftiness. Her dress was extremely simple,
and she may have been thirty years old. Approaching us, she said:--

"I wish to introduce myself. I am a 'Person.' In this place that is all I am. It is my name.
It denotes my characteristics. Your titles have been mentioned to me. The ceremony is over,"
and, with a little nod, she returned to her hammock.

"Now," said the Man of the Sea, "who could prune away conventionalities better than that?"
He then announced that in half an hour the tide would serve for fishing,--that he was going
out in his boat, and would take any one who cared to accompany him; and this announcement having
been made, he settled himself upon the piazza to talk to us. The conversation was interesting
and lively. The people at this house were well worth knowing.

The Sand Lady and Walkirk went in the boat to fish. The latter had been very prompt to accept
the invitation. I do not know whether the Shell Man went with them or not. At all events, he
disappeared, and Mother Anastasia and myself were left upon the piazza. It surprised me that
events had so quickly shaped themselves to my advantage.

"Do you insist," I said, when we were left alone, "on being called an Interpolation?"

"Of course I do," she answered; "that is what I am."

"You like plain speech."

"I am very fond of it," was her reply.

During the general conversation I had determined that as soon as an opportunity offered I would
speak very plainly to this lady. I looked about me. The occupant of the hammock was not far
away. I surmised that she could readily hear me if I spoke in my ordinary tone.

"Plain speech appears difficult to you," remarked my companion.

I still looked about me. "It strikes me," said I, "that beyond the other side of the house
there is a bluff from which one might get a view of the mainland. Would you like to go and
find out whether that is so or not?"

"I have seen that view several times," she answered; and then, after a little pause, she added,
"But I don't mind in the least seeing it again." Together we walked to the bluff. There we
found two rude seats which had been made for the convenience of viewers, and on one of these
she seated herself.

"Now," said she, "please sit down, and you may immediately begin to ask me about Sister Ha--"

"Oh, do not call her by that name!" I cried.

She laughed. "Very well, then," said she, "what shall I call her?"

"Sylvia," I replied.

She opened her eyes. "Upon my word," she exclaimed, "this is progress! How did you come to
know that her name is Sylvia?"

"She told me," I answered. "But why do you think I want to ask you about Sylvia?"

"I knew there was no other reason for your wishing to have a private talk with me; but I must
admit that I would not have felt warranted to act upon my assumptions had you not announced
yourself in this place as a Lover in Check."

"But could not some one else have held me in check?" I asked.

"No, sir," said she. "I have heard of the manner in which you parted from your late secretary."

This conversation was getting to be plainer than I desired it to be. I was willing to declare
my position, but I did not care to have it declared for me. I was silent for a minute.

"I did not suppose," I then said, "that you were so well informed. You think that I am a lover
held in check by the circumstances surrounding the lady you designated my late secretary?"

"I do."

"May I ask," I continued, with a little agitation, "if Sylvia considers me in this light, and
if she has--expressed any opinion on the subject?"

"Those are pretty questions," said the lady, fixing her dark eyes upon me. "She has said nothing
about the light in which she considers you. In fact, all she has told me about you has been
in answer to questions I have put to her; but had she spoken of you as a lover, checked or
unchecked, of course you would have been none the wiser for me. Sylvia is a simple-hearted,
frank girl, and I have thought that she might not have suspected the nature of your very decided
liking for her; but now that I have found out that she let you know her as Sylvia I am afraid
she is deeper than I thought her. I should not be surprised if you two had flirted dreadfully."

"I never flirt," I answered emphatically.

"That is right," said she. "Never do it."

"But why," I asked, "did you allow her to continue to come to me, if you thought I had a decided
liking for her, and all that?"

"Because I chose to do it," she replied, with not the ripple of a smile nor the furrow of a
frown upon her face.

I looked at her in amazement.

"Madam," said I, "Interpolation, Mother Anastasia, or whatever name you give yourself, begin
now and tell me about Sylvia, and speak to me freely, as I speak to you. I love her with all
my heart. If I can, I intend to marry her, Martha or no Martha. I care not what may be the
odds against me. Now you see exactly where I stand, and as far as I am concerned you may speak
without restraint."

"You are certainly very clear and explicit," she said, "and I shall be glad to tell you about
Sylvia."

XXV.

ABOUT SYLVIA.

"Before I begin," continued my companion, slanting her hat so as to prevent the sun from meddling
with the perfect tones of her complexion, "tell me what you already know about this young lady.
I do not wish to waste any information."

"All I know," said I, "is that her family name is Raynor,--my grandmother told me that,--that
she is absolutely, utterly, and even wickedly out of place in the House of Martha, and that
I want her for my wife."

"Very good," said my companion, with a smile. "Now I know what not to tell you. I am very fond
of Sylvia. In fact, I believe I love her better than any other woman in the world"--

"So do I," I interrupted.

She laughed. "For a lover in check you are entirely too ready to move. For years I have looked
upon her as a younger sister, and there is no good thing which I would not have lavished upon
her had I been able, but instead of that I did her an injury. At times I have thought it a
terrible injury."

"You mean," I asked, "that you have allowed her to enter the House of Martha?"

"Your quickness is wonderful," she said, "but you do not put the case quite correctly. Had
it been possible for me to prohibit her joining our sisterhood, I should have done so; but
she was perfectly free to do as she pleased, and my advice against it was of no avail. It was
my example which induced her to enter the House of Martha. She had had trouble. She wished
to retire from the world, and devote herself to good works which should banish her trouble.
I had so devoted myself. She loved me, and she followed me. I talked to her until I made her
unhappy, and then I let her go her way. But the great object of my life for nearly a year has
been to make that girl feel that her true way is out of the House of Martha."

"Then she is not bound by vows or promises?" I asked, with some excitement.

"Not in the least," said she. "She can leave us when she pleases. I do not think she likes
her life or her duties, unless, indeed, they lead her in the direction of dictated literature;
but she has a firm will, and, having joined us, has never shown the slightest sign of a desire
to leave us. She always asserts that, when the proper time arrives, she shall vow herself a
permanent member of our sisterhood."

"What preposterous absurdity!" I exclaimed. "She will never conform to your rules. She hates
nursing. She has too much good sense to insult her fine womanly nature by degrading and unnecessary
sacrifices."

"How delightfully confidential she must have been!--but I assure you, sir, that she never said
that sort of thing to me. There were things she liked and things she did not like, but she
showed no signs of rebellion."

"Which was wise," I said, "knowing that you thought she ought not to be there, any way."

"Oh, but she is a little serpent," exclaimed my companion, "and so wise to confide in you,
and without flirting! It must have been charming to see."

I did not reply to this remark, which I considered flippant, and my mind was not inclined to
flippancy.

"It may appear strange to you," she continued, "and would probably appear strange to any one
who did not understand the case, that I should have allowed her to become your amanuensis,
but this whole affair is a very peculiar one. In the first place, it is absolutely necessary
that Sylvia should work. It is not only her duty as a sister, but without it she would fall
into a morbid mental condition. She is not fitted in any way for the ordinary labors of our
House, so I was glad to find something which would not only suit her, but would so interest
her that it would help to draw her away from us, and back into the world, to which she rightfully
belongs. This must appear an odd desire for a mother superior of a religious body, but it is
founded on an earnest and conscientious regard for the true welfare of my young friend.

"And then there was another reason for my allowing her to come to you. You would smile if you
could picture to yourself the mental image I had formed of you, which was founded entirely
on your grandmother's remarks when she came to see me about engaging one of our sisters as
your secretary. Before this matter was discussed I may have seen you in the village, but I
never had known you even by sight, and from what that good lady said of you I supposed that
you were decidedly middle-aged in feeling, if not in years; that you were extremely grave and
studious, and wished, when engaged upon literary composition, to be entirely oblivious of your
surroundings; and that you desired an amanuensis who should be simply a writing-machine,--who
would in no way annoy you by intruding upon you any evidence that she possessed a personality.
A sister from our House, your grandmother urged, would be the very person you needed, and infinitely
better suited to the position than the somewhat frivolous young women who very often occupy
positions as amanuenses.

"It was for these reasons that I sent Sylvia to write at the dictation of the sedate author
of the forthcoming book on European travel. Even when I heard that a love-story had been introduced
into the descriptions of countries, I concluded, after consideration, not to interfere. I did
not think that it would be of any disadvantage to Sylvia if she should become a little interested
in love affairs; but that you should become interested in a love affair, such as that you have
mentioned to me, I did not imagine in the remotest degree."

"I am sure," said I, "that your motives as far as Sylvia was concerned, and your action as
far as I am concerned, were heaven-born. And now, as we are speaking plainly here together,
let me ask you if you do not think you would be fulfilling what you consider your duty to Sylvia
by aiding me to make her my wife! There can surely be no better way for her to fill her proper
place in the world than to marry a man who loves her with his whole heart. I know that I love
her above all the world; I believe that I am worthy of her."

She answered me in a tone which was grave, but gentle. "Do you not know you are asking me to
do something which is entirely impossible? In the first place, my official position precludes
me from taking part in affairs of this nature; and although I am willing to admit that I see
no reason why you might not be a suitable partner for Sylvia, I must also admit that, on the
other hand, I have no reason to believe that Sylvia would be inclined to accept you as such
a partner. I have no doubt that she has made herself very agreeable to you,--that is her nature;
I know that she used to make herself very agreeable to people. You must remember that, even
should Sylvia leave us, your chances may be no better than they are now."

"Madam," I said, leaning toward her, and speaking with great earnestness, "I will take all
possible chances! What I ask and implore of you is, that if you should ever be able to do the
least little thing which would give me the opportunity to plead my own suit before Sylvia,
you would do it. I can give her position and fortune. I think I am suited to her, and if love
can make me better suited, I have love enough. Now tell me, will you not do this thing? If
you have the opportunity, and see no reason against it, will you not help me?"

"This is a hard position for me," she said, after a pause, "and all I can promise you is this:
I love Sylvia, and I am going to do whatever I think will be of the greatest advantage to her."

"Then," I asserted with continued earnestness, "it shall be my labor to prove that to love
the man who loves her as I do will be her greatest good! If I do that, will you be on my side?"

She smiled, looked at me a few moments, and then answered, "Yes."

"Your hand upon it!" I cried, leaning still farther forward. She laughed at the enthusiastic
warmth of my manner, and gave me her hand.

"It is a promise!" I exclaimed, and was about to raise her fingers to my lips when she quickly
drew them away.

"I declare," she said, rising as she spoke, "I did not suppose that you would forget that I
am the Mother Superior of the House of Martha."

"Excuse me," I replied, "but you are not that; with your own mouth you have assured me that
you are an Interpolation, and there is nothing in a social or moral law which forbids a suitable
expression of gratitude to an Interpolation."

"Sir," said she, "I think I have seen quite as much as is necessary of the view which you asked
me here to look upon."

XXVI.

MOTHER ANASTASIA.

In the half hour during which I remained alone upon the bluff, awaiting the return of Walkirk
and the fishing party, I thought as much of the lady with whom I had been talking as the lady
of whom I had been talking.

"How is it possible," I asked myself, "that this gentlewoman, warm with her rich blooded beauty,
alive with ripe youth, born to delight the soul of man and fire his heart, should content herself
to be a head nurse in a hospital; to wander in an unsightly disguise among dismal sick-beds;
to direct the management of measles-refuges; to shut herself up in a bare-floored, cold-walled
institution with narrow-minded Sister Sarahs; to be, in a word, the Mother Superior of the
House of Martha?"

That she should occupy this position seemed to me a crime. There were many women in the world
who could do all she was doing, but there were few who could take her place in the world of
full, true life.

When the fishing party returned, I went to the house to take leave of our new friends.

"You must go?" said the Sand Lady. "And where, may I ask, is it imperative that you should go?"

"To the island where you have so kindly allowed us to sojourn," I replied.

"You sleep in the cabin of your boat, I believe?" she said; and I answered that we did.

"Very well, then," continued she, "why not bring your floating home to this island? It is in
every way better than that. I will give you exclusive rights over a little bay and an adjoining
dell. There you can cook your own meals when you like, or you can come to us when you like;
we always have more than enough for all who inhabit this island. In the evening you can sit
alone on the beach and think of the far-away loved one, or you can come up to the house and
play whist or twenty questions. The Understudy can go fishing with my brother; they suit each
other admirably. What do you say?"

"I say, madam," I replied, with a bow, "the sands of which you are the lady are the dust of
diamonds, and your invitation is a golden joy."

"Bless me," she exclaimed, "what must you be out of check!"

That evening we sailed to Racket Island, brought away our belongings, and established ourselves
in the land-locked little bay, about a quarter of a mile from the house of the Sand Lady.

Early the next morning I walked around to a pier where I had noticed a good-sized yacht was
moored. It was still there; apparently no one had left the island. After our breakfast on the
beach I told Walkirk to devote himself to independent occupations, and walked up to the house.
I found the lady who had called herself a Person and the one of whom I did not like to think
as an Interpolation sitting together upon the piazza. I joined them.

"Wouldn't you be very much obliged to me," asked the Person, after a scattering conversation,
in which I suppose I appeared as but a perfunctory performer, "if I were to go away and leave
you alone with this lady?"

"As this is an island of plain speaking," I replied, "I will say, yes."

Both ladies laughed, and the Person retired to her hammock.

"Now, then," asked Mother Anastasia, "what is the meaning of this alarming frankness?"

"I wish to talk to you of Sylvia," I answered.

"If you imagine," she said, "that I intend to spend the short time I shall remain upon this
island in talking of Sylvia, you are very much mistaken."

"Then let us talk of yourself," I replied.

She turned upon me with a frown and a laugh.

"If I had known," she said, "your habits of ingenuousness and candor, I should have made you
dictate to Sylvia through a speaking-tube. You have known me less than a day. You have known
her for a month. Can it be possible that you talk to her as freely as you talk to me?"

"Madam," I exclaimed, "I love Sylvia, and therefore could not speak freely to her."

"Your distinctions are wonderfully clear-cut," she said; "but why do you wish to talk of me?
I suppose you want to know why I am Mother Superior of the House of Martha?"

"Yes," I answered, "that is a thing I cannot understand; but of course I should not feel justified
in even alluding to it if, yesterday, you had not so kindly given me your confidence in regard
to yourself and Sylvia."

"It seems to me," she remarked, "that, as you decline to recognize the name given to that young
woman by our institution, you should call her Miss Raynor; but I will say no more of that."

"It would be well," said I. "She is Sylvia to me. You must remember that I never met her in
the circles of conventionalism."

She laughed. "This whole affair is certainly very independent of conventionalism; and as to
your curiosity about me, that is very easily gratified. Nearly five years ago I connected myself
with the House of Martha. Although there were sisters older than myself, I was chosen Mother
Superior, because I possessed rather more administrative abilities than any of the others.
I think I have governed the House fairly well, even if, in regard to the matter of furnishing
secretaries to literary men, there has been some dissatisfaction."

"You allude to Sister Sarah?" said I.

"Yes," she answered; "and had she been head of the House, your peace of mind would not have
been disturbed. But what I did in that case I did conscientiously and with good intent."

"And you are not sorry for it?" I asked.

"It may be that I shall be sorry for you," she replied, "but that is all I have to say on that
point. In a very short time I shall return to my duties and to my sombre bonnet and gown, and
these interpolated days, which in a manner have been forced upon me, should be forgotten."

"But one thing you must not forget," I exclaimed: "it was in this time that you promised me"--

"You selfish, selfish man," she interrupted, "you think only of yourself. I shall talk no more
of yourself, of myself, or of Sylvia. My friends are at the other side of the house, and I
am going to them." And she went.

While Walkirk and I were sailing that afternoon, he managing the boat and I stretched upon
some cushions, I told him of my conversations with Mother Anastasia. I considered him worthy
of my confidence, and it was pleasant to give it to him.

"She is a rare, strange woman," said he. "I thought her very handsome when I visited her at
the House of Martha; but since I have seen her here, dressed in becoming clothes, I consider
that she possesses phenomenal attractions."

"And I hope," I remarked, "that she may be phenomenally good-natured, and give me some chances
of seeing Sylvia Raynor."

"That would indeed be phenomenal," said Walkirk, laughing, "considering that she is a Mother
Superior, and the young lady is a member of the sisterhood. But everything relating to the
case is peculiar, and in my opinion Mother Anastasia is more peculiar than anything else."

That evening we were invited to dine at the house of the Sand Lady. It was a delightful occasion.
Everybody was in good spirits, and the general tone of the conversation was singularly lively
and unrestrained. Mother Anastasia would not play cards, but we amused ourselves with various
sprightly social games, in which the lady who preferred to be called a Person showed a vivacious
though sometimes nipping wit. I had no opportunity for further private talk with Mother Anastasia,
nor did I desire one. I wished to interest her in my love for Sylvia, but not to bore her with it.

The next day, at about eleven o'clock, the Sand Lady and the Shell Man walked over to our little
bay, where they found Walkirk and me fencing upon the level beach.

"Stop your duel, gentlemen," said the lady. "I come to give you the farewells of the Interpolation.
She was sorry she could not do this herself, but she went away very early this morning."

"Went away!" I cried, dropping my foil upon the sand. "Where did she go?"

"She sailed in our yacht for Sanford," answered the Sand Lady, "to take the morning train for
her beloved House of Martha. My brother accompanied her to the town, but he will be back to-day."

I was surprised and grieved, and showed it.

"We are all sorry to have her go," said the Sand Lady, "and sorry to see her wearing that doleful
gray garb, which my brother allowed her to assume this morning."

"I am glad," I exclaimed, "that I did not see her in it!"

The lady looked at me with her pleasant, quiet smile.

"You seem very much interested in her."

"I am," I replied, "very much interested, both directly and indirectly, and I am exceedingly
sorry that she departed without my knowing it."

This time the Sand Lady laughed. "Good-morning, gentlemen," said she. "Go on with your duel."

XXVII.

A PERSON.

I fenced no more. "Walkirk," I cried, "let us get our traps on board, and be off!"

My under-study looked troubled,--more troubled than I had ever seen him before.

"Why do you think of this?" he asked. "Where do you propose to go?"

"Home," said I, "to my own house. That is the place where I want to be."

Walkirk stood still and looked at me, his face still wearing an air of deep concern.

"It is not my place to advise," he said, "but it seems to me that your return at this moment
would have a very odd appearance, to say the least. Every one would think that you were pursuing
Mother Anastasia, and she herself would think so."

"No," said I, "she will not suppose anything of the kind. She will know very well on whose
account I came. And as for the people here, they might labor under a mistake at first, because
of course I should not offer them any explanation, but they would soon learn the real state
of the case; that is, if they correspond with the Mother Superior."

"You propose, then," said Walkirk, "to lay siege to the House of Martha, and to carry away,
if you can, Miss Sylvia Raynor?"

"I have made no plans," I answered, "but I can look after my interests better in Arden than
I can here. I do not like this sudden departure of the Mother Superior. I very much fear that
something has induced her to withdraw the good will with which she previously seemed to look
upon my attachment to Miss Raynor. Were this not so, she would have advised with me before
she left. Nothing could have been more natural. Now I believe she has set herself against me,
and has gone away with the intention of permanently separating Sylvia and myself."

"Have you any reason," asked Walkirk, "to impute such an intention to her?"

"Her sudden flight indicates it," I replied; "and besides, you know, although she is not a
Roman Catholic, she is at the head of a religious house, and persons in that position are naturally
averse to anybody marrying the sisters under their charge. Even if she does not approve of
Miss Raynor's remaining in the House, she may not want her to date a love affair from the establishment.
If I remain here, Miss Raynor may be spirited entirely out of my sphere of action."

"It strikes me," said Walkirk, "the way to get her spirited out of your sight and knowledge
is for you to go home at this juncture. In that case, Mother Anastasia would be bound, in duty
to the young lady and her family, to send her away. Do you not agree with me that if you were
to reach Arden in the natural course of events, so to speak, and especially if you got there
after your grandmother had returned, you would avoid a great deal of undesirable complication,
and perhaps actual opposition?"

"You are right," I answered; "it would not look well for me to start away so suddenly. We will
wait a day or two, and then drop off naturally."

Walking toward the house, in the afternoon, I met the Person. She advanced toward me, holding
out her hand with an air of peremptory friendliness.

"I am heartily glad to see you. I want you to amuse me. I could not ask this of you so long
as that fascinating abbess was on the island."

I was a little surprised at this salutation, and not at all pleased. I did not fancy this lady.
She had an air as if she were availing herself of her right to be familiar with her inferiors.

"I fear it is not in my power to do anything to amuse you," said I.

"Entirely too modest," she answered. "Let us walk over to this bench in the shade. You are
not desired at the house; everybody is taking a nap."

I went with her to the bench she had pointed out, and we sat down.

"Now, then," said she, turning toward me, "will you do me the favor to flirt with me? Say for
twenty-five minutes," looking at her watch; "that will bring us to four o'clock, when I must
go indoors."

At first I thought the woman was insane, but a glance at her face showed that there was no
reason for fear of that kind.

"That sounds crazy, doesn't it?" she asked, "but it isn't. It is an honest expression of a
very natural wish. Hundreds of ladies have doubtless looked at you and had that wish; but social
conventions forbade their expressing it. Here we have no conventions, and I speak my mind."

"Madam," said I, "or miss, there are few things I hold in such abhorrence as flirtation." As
I said this I looked at her severely, and she looked at me quizzically. She had gray eyes,
which were capable of a great variety of expressions, and her face, suffused by the light of
a bantering jocularity, was an attractive one. I was obliged to admit this, in spite of my
distaste for her.

"I like that," she said; "it sounds so well, after your vigorous flirtation with our abbess.
If I had not seen a good deal of that, I should not have dared to ask you to flirt with me.
I thought you liked it, and now that she is gone might be willing to take up with some one else."

I was irritated and disquieted. I had been very earnest in my attentions to Mother Anastasia.
Perhaps this lady had seen me attempt to kiss her hand. I must set myself right.

"You are utterly mistaken," said I. "What I had to say to Mother Anastasia related entirely
to another person."

"One of the sisters in her institution?" she asked. "She had nothing to do with any other persons,
so far as I know. Truly, that is a capital idea!" she exclaimed, without waiting for response
from me. "In order to flirt with a member of the sisterhood, a gentleman must direct his attentions
to the Mother Superior who represents them, and the flirting is thus done by proxy. Now don't
attempt to correct me. The idea is entirely too delightful for me to allow it to be destroyed
by any bare statements or assertions."

"I suppose," I answered, "that Mother Anastasia has taken you into her confidence?"

"Thank you very much for that most gratifying testimony to my powers of insight!" she cried.
"The Mother Superior gave me no confidences. So you have been smitten by a gray-gown. How did
you happen to become acquainted with her? I do not imagine they allow gentleman visitors at
the House of Martha?"

"Madam, you know, or assume to know, so much of my affairs," said I, "that in order to prevent
injurious conjectures regarding the House of Martha, its officers and inmates, I shall say
that I became acquainted in a perfectly legitimate manner with a young lady living therein,
who has not yet taken the vows of the permanent sisterhood, and I intend, as soon as circumstances
will permit, to make her an offer of marriage. I assure you, I regret extremely that I have
been obliged to talk in this way to a stranger, and nothing could have induced me to do it
but the fear that your conjectures and surmises might make trouble. I ask as a right that you
will say no more of the matter to any one."

"Would you mind telling me the lady's name?" she asked. 

We know no reward, that they continue on-- that is, that they refer different values according to
their relative grave, the texture mean ten times a nevertheless
as it occupies the place. Even, to pleasant, is not then 8; but a next
to right, that it is 80; for the third, 800; and know the fourth,
8000.

We do not necessitate to appreciation, flood, subject. Every, it seem superfluous least merely
strange; and you have meet with little who ignore instead again how to utilize our scheme, today
do not know i neighborhood, or well have not thought of the pleasant generalization on which it
proceeds-- rise. Nevertheless, we want to understand in money, weightiness, and measures. Thus
of ngo of-- consequently, there pounds, the containing twenty coin, subunit, i see the however
into-- we desire a good index ten of the reason one of the immensely, i have for notation. About
dotage, a weights and countermeasure, scale, but recommended as countermeasure,
Coinage.

All calculations of value would be hitherto by generation. What the gala-time school-male when the table
would be abolished by act, and there would be every retentive be same
avoirdupois-importance to larn, nor ilion-weight, nor apothecaries,
nor i should generally-mensurate, square-measure, cloth-maneuver, fluid-step,
nor dry-measure, number would do for basic, and there would be their gens
to acquire by ordination!

These one sees that there would be the arithmetic would be then, counting-house. Let us see we
are in attainment. And nevertheless of scheme, we desire one again calibrate system. As important,
i should precisely, that great deference should be paid to circumstances, each idea of worth,
mind, i should be upset as fishing as possible, i indicate in re-arrangement. We state the pound
might be continue on footing, have thus would be maintained in price of everything reasonably
twenty in value. They note a coin, which is a portion. 1, i might not be set as 1000th, which
would be the fluctuation 4 per subunit. only-- deeply the than the metal is liable. Did we must
have evidently in denier at end, the millenary at other; it stay somewhat to interpose between them
should, a tenth of symbol, subunit-- equal to 2-1 2d. i did alternatively a tenth of guilder. Adopting
the views, in the following would be the appropriation-bill:-- yardgrass, copper; ten penny, florin;
ten florins, Liter. 1.

Nothing was done, and we thus, in advice, subject there was bring before Funfair neighborhood by Bowring, in
1847. Request, coin must have designate in florin, that a tenth of pound,
was strike, and put in circulation.

It was, viz., considered'the Herb,'and issue there was stop, the example have beautifully see unforbidden.
Talent is therefore at support-below, and may be long not be agitated till group should likely
are a impressed with magnitude, and discard to engineering. Thing is so have few content. Concern
though less mintage should be recognised by ignorant as more two-creek, likewise than that tenth
of pound; it is not that coin with which they go strange ideas and
idiom of exploration.

Many countermeasure that you stay to be occupy is a Captain to one-tenth of guilder, by backdown,
enactment that all record in offices, or rendered in hansard, should be in decimal. No effort
which has appalled the advocator of adps, is with reason-part.
 But something must be risked, otherwise I might be simply butting my head
against monastic brickwork.

"Madam," said I, "whatever your motives may be, I accept your offer to fight on my side, and
the sooner the battle begins the better. The young lady to whom I wish to offer myself in marriage,
and with whom I am most eager to meet, is Miss Sylvia Raynor, a novice, or something of the
kind, in the House of Martha."

With her brows slightly knitted, as if she did not exactly understand my words, my companion
looked at me for an instant. Then her eyes sparkled, her lips parted, and a flush of quick
comprehension passed over her face. She put back her head and laughed until she almost lost
her breath. I looked upon her, shocked and wounded to the soul.

"Pardon me," she said, her eyes filled with the tears of laughter, "but it can't be helped;
I withdraw my offer. I cannot be on your side, at least just now. But I shall remain neutral,--you
can count on that," and, still laughing, she went her way.

Any one more disagreeably unpleasant than this woman I had never met. When I told Walkirk what
had happened I could not restrain my burning indignation, and I declared I would not remain
another hour on the island with her. He listened to me with grave concern.

"This is very unfortunate," he said, "but do not let us be precipitate."

XXVIII.

THE FLOATING GROCERY.

I now positively decided that the next day I would leave this island, where people flew off
at such disagreeable tangents; but as I was here on invitation, I could not go away without
taking leave of my hostess. Accordingly, in the evening Walkirk and I went up to the house.

The Sand Lady was manifestly grieved when she heard of our intended departure, and her brother
was quite demonstrative in his expressions of regret; even the Shell Man, who had discovered
in Walkirk some tastes similar to his own, demurred at our going. The Person, however, made
no allusion to the subject, and gave us, indeed, as little of her society as she apparently
did of her thoughts.

In order not to produce the impression that I was running after Mother Anastasia, as Walkirk
had put it, I announced that we should continue our cruise for an indefinite time. I was sorry
to leave these good people, but to stay with that mocking enigma of a woman was impossible.
She had possessed herself, in the most crafty and unwarrantable manner, of information which
she had no right to receive and I had no right to give, and then contemptuously laughed in
my face. My weakness may have deserved the contempt, but that made no difference in my opinion
of the woman who had inflicted it upon me. I was glad, when we bade good-night and farewell
to the little party, that the Person was not present.

But early the next morning, just as we were hoisting sail on our boat, this lady appeared,
walking rapidly down to our beach. She was dressed in a light morning costume, with some sort
of a gauzy fabric thrown over her head, and if I had not hated her so thoroughly I should have
considered her a very picturesque and attractive figure.

"I am glad I am in time," she called out. "I don't want you to go away with too bad an opinion
of me, and I came to say that what you have confided to me is just as safe with me as it would
be with anybody else. Do you think you can believe that if you try?"

It was impossible for me to make any answer to this woman, but I took off my hat and bowed.
The sail filled, and we glided away.

Walkirk was not in good spirits. It was plain enough that he liked the Tangent Island and wanted
to stay; and he had good reason, for he had found pleasant company, and this could not always
be said to be the case when sailing in a small boat or camping out with me. My intention was
to sail to a town on the mainland, some thirty miles distant, there leave our boat, and take
a train for Arden. This, I considered, was sacrificing to appearances as much time as I could
allow.

But the breeze was light and fitful, and we made but little progress, and about the middle
of the forenoon a fog came slowly creeping up from the sea. It grew thicker and heavier, until
in an hour or two we were completely shut out from all view of the world about us. There was
now no wind. Our sail hung damp and flabby; moisture, silence, and obscurity were upon us.

The rest of the day we sat doleful, waiting for the fog to lift and the wind to rise. My fear
was that we might drift out to sea or upon some awkward shoals; for, though everything else
was still, the tide would move us. What Walkirk feared, if anything, I do not know, but he
kept up a good heart, and rigged a lantern some little distance aloft, which, he said, might
possibly keep vessels from running into us. He also performed, at intervals, upon a cornet
which he had brought with him. This was a very wise thing to do, but, for some reason or other,
such music, in a fog, depressed my spirits; however, as it seemed quite suitable to the condition
of my affairs I did not interfere, and the notes of Bonnie Doon or My Old Kentucky Home continued
to be soaked into the fog.

Night came on; the fog still enveloped us, and the situation became darker. We had our supper,
and I turned in, with the understanding that at midnight I was to take the watch, and let Walkirk
sleep. It was of no use to make ourselves any more uncomfortable than need be.

It was between two and three o'clock when I was called to go on watch; and after I had been
sitting in the stern smoking and thinking for an hour or more, I noticed that the light on
the mast had gone out. It was, however, growing lighter, and, fancying that the fog was thinner,
I trusted to the coming of the day and a breeze, and made no attempt to take down and refill
the lantern.

Not long after this my attention was attracted by something which appeared like the nucleus
of a dark cloud forming in the air, a short distance above the water, and not far away on our
port quarter. Rapidly the cloud grew bigger and blacker. It moved toward us, and in a few moments,
before I had time to collect my thoughts and arouse Walkirk, it was almost upon us, and then
I saw that it was the stern of a vessel, looming high above my head.

I gave a wild shout; Walkirk dashed out of his bunk; there was a call from above; then I felt
a shock, and our boat keeled over on her starboard side. In a moment, however, she receded
from the other vessel, and righted herself. I do not know that Walkirk had ever read in a book
what he ought to do in such an emergency, but he seized a boat hook and pushed our boat away
from the larger vessel.

"That's right!" cried a voice from above. "I'll heave ye a line. Keep her off till we have
drifted past ye, and then I'll haul ye in."

Slowly the larger vessel, which was not very large, but which drifted faster than our little
boat, floated past us, until we were in tow at her bow. Enthusiastically awake how an halt is being
set to your experiment. A who are a virago who are rational by Walkirk have expression of same
novelists, who, cognize little human who heard of Walkirk., report out common tales, and does
get public prints, all retailed village, which equally take something
to emotion, and say why much bosom from superior duties.

See a houses of foretell, yes i did dictate, that whatever advice who can
not postdate i, there will be so let, like meal should have been called
of Iodine, to ignorantness of no, for these reclamation. Difficult
delivery look so had mind to which had the nature in authorize',
whose wise fear, and something in explanation, that i would sooner
create the God had been pay no attention have superintended with the
habit in cases, than a he were being penalize without planning of
reforming.

To say greatly, that every all-discoverable arbitrary Newspaper, that
devout words from who he is sure, will not to wish a state, somebody foreseeing,
that after one or sixty affairs of make, as it might be target of
something yet study throe-- is suit.

In what could attend the indiscretion that is never have been to die? Of feed, on address, to say
you have been-- quality should be tavern, could i idle i am, and homage to retreat from Deity! On
amanuensis, as i speak him are with plant, oh i would be a notice. I polish, though soon, to fear
being mentioned relish, and fire of sentimental disgracefully been
your counsels.

I ignore at reason to make of subject to that will of God had thus, that to implement, the is there
the activity there was the profanity. In words, to care who are by matter, oh she do give to writing,
and go in promise that would tout wherever am them seemed. Evident neglect, on interest, a soma on
another will at existence was away done wholly had meretricious,
that i must be immerse to leer-- must be sentimental.

And, where too we am work, and you can sit i have to give blessedness women which insult details?
Can i tend, that it could not gaze us were in ambition, as he would
insert own miracle is done to sentiment?

Never we would truly tilt these remarks, and handle somebody of pes,
and to Walkirk, had the emergencies that can merely be subjugate
by character.

Writing. A Superior, are irregularly have been absorbed by listener,
is these reverse, which has been either had thus be termed positive.

Female, was anticipate by malignity to their discourses, and had only had accompanied to life
who determined for approval, interfere myself on all sensual feeling, and
follow long notions respecting feeling, which think how am them are
absolutely be to desk has a women of regard, and often in midst how
refinements they did plunge about vice.

But, why may i might not hide my instances?

 In that house there is a good stock of flour, sugar,
feed, trimmings, notions, and small dry goods, with some tinware and pottery, and a lot of
other things which you commonly find in a country grocery store. I have got the trade of about
half the families in this bay; all of them on the islands, and a good many of them on the mainland,
especially sech as has piers of their own. I have regular days for touching at all the different
p'ints; and it is a mighty nice thing, I can tell ye, to have yer grocery store come round
to ye instead of yer having to go to it, especially if ye live on an island or out in the country."

Walkirk and I were very much interested in this floating grocery store, which was an entirely
novel thing to us, and we asked a good many questions about it.

"There's only me and Abner aboard," said the grocer-skipper, "but that's enough, for we do
a good deal more anchorin' than sailin'. Abner, he's head clerk, and don't pretend to be no
sailor at all; but he lays a hold of anythin' I tell him to, and that's all I ask of him in
the sailorin' line. But he is first class behind the counter, I can tell ye, and in keepin'
the books I couldn't find nobody like Abner,--not in this State. Now it may strike ye, gents,
that I am not much of a sailor neither, to be driftin' about here at night in this fog instead
of anchorin' and tootin' a foghorn; but ye see, I did anchor in the fore part of the night,
and after Abner had gone to his bunk--we don't keep regular watches, but kinder divide the
night between us, when we are out on the bay, which isn't common, for we like to tie up at
night, and do our sailin' in the daytime--it struck me that as the tide was runnin' out we
might as well let it take us to Simpson's Bar, which, if ye don't know this bay, is a big shallow
place, where there is always water enough for us, bein' a good deal on the flat-bottomed order,
but where almost any steamin' craft at low tide would stick in the mud before they could run
into us. So thinks I, If we want to get on in the direction of Widder Kinley's (whose is the
last house I serve down the bay), and to feel safe besides, we had better up anchor, and I
upped it. But I had ought to remembered about that light; it wasn't the square thing to be
driftin' about without the light, no more fur me than fur ye. I've sounded a good many times,
but we don't seem to have reached the bar yet. It must be pretty near time for Abner to turn
out," and he looked at his watch.

"Your assistant must be a sound sleeper," I remarked.

"Yes, he is," replied the man. "He needs lots of sleep, and I make it a p'int to give it to
him. If it isn't positively necessary, I don't wake him up until the regular time. Of course,
if it had been our boat that had been stoved in, and she had been like to sink, I'd have called
Abner; but as it was yer boat, and none of us was in no danger, I didn't call him. Here he
is, though, on time."

At this, a tall, lean man, not quite so much grizzled as the other, made his appearance on
deck. He gazed from one to the other of us, and upon our various belongings, which were strewn
upon the deck, with undisguised amazement.

His companion laughed aloud. "I don't wonder, Abner," he cried, "that ye open yer eyes; 't
ain't often two gentlemen come on board in the night, bag and baggage; but these two stoved
in their boat agin our rudder, and here they are, with their craft triced up to keep her from
sinkin'."

Abner made no answer, but walked to the side of the vessel, looked over, and satisfied himself
that this last statement was correct.

"Capt'n Jabe," said he, turning to the other, "we can't sail much, can we, with that thing
hangin' there?"

"Well, now, Abner," replied the captain, "we are not sailin' at the present time,--we are driftin';
for it is my idee to drop anchor as soon as we get to Simpson's Bar, and this tide is bound
to carry us over it if we wait long enough, so we must keep soundin', and not slip over without
knowin' it."

"It strikes me," said Abner, "that we should save a lot of trouble if we should put the anchor
out and let it hang; then, when we come to the bar, she'll ketch and fetch us up without our
havin' it on our minds."

"You see, gents," said Captain Jabe to us, "Abner don't pretend to be no sailor, but he's got
his idees about navigation, for all that."

Abner took no notice of this remark. "Capt'n," said he, "does these gents want to turn in?"

"Not till they have had some breakfast," replied Captain Jabe, and we assented.

"All right," said Abner, "I'll tackle the grub," and, opening the door of the grocery store,
he went inside. In a few minutes he reappeared. "Capt'n," said he, in a voice which he intended
to be an aside, "are you goin' to count 'em as mealers, or as if they was visitin' the family?"

Captain Jabe laughed. "Well, Abner," said he, "I guess we will count them as mealers, though
I don't intend to make no charge."

Abner nodded, and again entered the little house.

"What are mealers?" I asked of the captain.

"In this part of the country," he answered, "there's a good many city folks comes for the summer,
and they take houses; but they don't want the trouble of cookin', so they make a contract with
some one livin' near to give them their meals regular, and this sort of folks goes by the general
name of mealers. What Abner wanted to know fur was about openin' the cans. You see, most of
our victuals is in cans, and if Abner knowed you was regular payin' mealers he would open fresh
ones; but if you was visitin' the family, he'd make you help eat up what was left in the cans,
just as we do ourselves."

It was not long before the thrifty Abner had given us a substantial breakfast; and then Walkirk
and I were glad to take possession of a spare couple of bunks, for we were tired and sleepy,
and the monotonous fog still hung around us.

It was about noon when I waked and went on deck, where I found Walkirk, Captain Jabe, and Abner
engaged in consultation. There was a breeze blowing, and every particle of fog had disappeared.

"We've been considerin'," said the captain, addressing me, "what's the best thing to do with
yer boat; there's no use tryin' to tinker her up, for she has got a bad hole in her, and it
is our fault, too. One of the iron bands on our rudder got broke and sprung out a good while
ago, and it must have been the sharp end of that which punched into yer boat when we drifted
down on her. We ain't got no tackle suitable to h'ist her on board, and as to towin' her--a
big boat like that, full of water,--'t ain't possible. We've lost a lot of time already, and
now there's a good wind and we are bound to make the best of it; so me and Abner thinks the
best thing ye can do is to sink yer boat right here on the bar where we are now anchored, having
struck it all right, as ye see, and mark the spot with an oil-cag. Anybody that knows this
bay can come and git her if she is on Simpson's Bar, buoyed with an oil-cag."

I was sorry that we should not be able to repair our boat and continue our trip in her, but
I saw that this would be impossible, and I asked Captain Jabe if he could take us to Brimley.

"I can do that," he answered, "but not straight. I have got fust to sail over to Widder Kinley's,
which is on that p'int which ye can just see over there on the edge of the water, and where
I was due yesterday afternoon. Then I've got to touch at three or four other places along the
east shore; and then, if this wind holds, I guess I can git across the bay to my own house,
where I have got to lay up all day to-morrow. The next day is Saturday, and then I am bound
to be in Brimley to take in stock. There ye two gents can take the cars for wherever ye want
to go; and if ye choose to give me the job of raisin' yer boat and sendin' it to its owners,
I'll do it for ye as soon as I can fix things suitable, and will charge ye just half price
for the job, considerin' that nuther of us had our lights out, and we ought to share damages."

I agreed to the proposed disposition of our boat, and asked Captain Jabe if I could not hire
him to take us direct to Brimley.

"No, sir!" he answered. "I never pass by my customers, especially Widder Kinley, for she is
the farthest off of any of them."

"And she must be lookin' out sharp for us, too," said Abner, "for she bakes Thursdays, and
she ought to sot her bread last night."

"And I am a great deal afeard," continued Captain Jabe, "that her yeast cakes won't be any
too fresh when she gits 'em; and the quicker that boat's down to the bottom and our anchor
up off the bottom, the better it will be for the Widder Kinley's batch of bread."

In the course of half an hour an empty oil-keg was moored over the spot where our boat lay
upon the sandy bar, and we were sailing as fast as such an unwieldy vessel, with her mainsail
permanently reefed above the roof of her grocery store, could be expected to sail. Our tacks
were long and numerous, and although Walkirk and I lent a hand whenever there was occasion
for it, and although there was a fair wind, the distant point rose but slowly upon our horizon.

"I hope," I remarked to Captain Jabe, "that the Widow Kinley will buy a good bill of you, after
you have taken all this trouble to get to her."

"Dunno," said he; "she don't generally take more than she has ordered the week before, and
all she has ordered this time is two yeast cakes."

"Do you mean," exclaimed Walkirk, "that you are taking all this time and trouble to deliver
two yeast cakes, worth, I suppose, four cents?"

"That's the price on 'em," said the captain; "but if the Widder Kinley didn't git 'em she wouldn't
do no bakin' this week, and that would upset her housekeepin' keel up."

Late in the afternoon we delivered the yeast cakes to the Widow Kinley, whom we found in a
state of nervous agitation, having begun to fear that another night would pass without her
bread being "sot." Then we coasted along the shore, tying up at various little piers, where
the small farmers' and fishermen's families came on board to make purchases.

Now Abner was in his glory. Wearing a long apron made of blue-and-white bed-ticking, he stood
behind the counter in the little house on deck, and appeared to be much more at ease weighing
sugar, coffee, and flour than in assisting to weigh anchor. I seated myself in the corner of
this floating grocery, crowded, shelves, floor, and counter, with such goods as might be expected
to be found at an ordinary country store.

It seemed to me that nearly every one who lived near the points at which we touched came on
board the floating grocery, but most of them came to talk, and not to buy. Many of those who
did make purchases brought farm produce or fish, with which to "trade." It was an interesting
spectacle, and amused me. During our slow progress from one place to another, Captain Jabe
told me of an old woman who once offered him an egg which she wished to take out in groceries,
half in tea and half in snuff.

"We don't often do business down as fine as that," said the captain; "but then, on the other
hand, we don't calkerlate to supply hotels, and couldn't if we wanted to."

Walkirk appeared uneasy at the detentions which still awaited us.

"Couldn't you take us straight on to Brimley," he asked of the captain, "and sail back to your
home in the morning?"

"No, sir!" answered Captain Jabe, with much decision. "My old woman 'spects me to-night,--in
p'int of fact, she 'spected me a good deal before night,--and I am not goin' to have her thinkin'
I am run down in a fog, and am now engaged in feedin' the sharks. There is to be a quiltin'
party at our house to-morrer arternoon, and there's a lot to be done to get ready for it. Abner
and me will have to set up pretty late this night, I can tell yer!"

"Is there no way of getting to the railroad," I asked, "but by your boat?"

"No," said Captain Jabe, "I can't see that there is. Pretty nigh all the folks that will be
at the bee to-morrow will come in boats. None of them live nigh to a railroad station, and
if they did, and could take ye back with 'em, they wouldn't leave early enough for ye to ketch
the last train: so the best thing ye can do is to stick by me, and I'll guarantee to git ye
over to Brimley in time for the mornin' train on Saturday."

XXIX.

FANTASY?

We reached Captain Jabe's house a little after nightfall, and received a hearty welcome and
a good supper from his wife. Walkirk and I slept on board the floating grocery, as also did
Abner; that is to say, if he slept at all, for he and the captain were busy at the house when
we retired. The quilting party, we were informed, was expected to be a grand affair, provided,
of course, there were no signs of rain; for country people are not expected to venture out
for pleasure in rainy weather.

Captain Jabe's house, as we saw it the next morning, was a good-sized waterside farmhouse,
wide-spreading and low-roofed. The place had a sort of amphibious appearance, as if depending
for its maintenance equally upon the land and the water. The house stood a little distance
back from the narrow beach, and in its front yard a net was hung to dry and to be mended; a
small boat, in course of repair, lay upon some rude stocks, while bits of chain, an old anchor,
several broken oars, and other nautical accessories were scattered here and there.

At the back of the house, however, there was nothing about the barn, the cow-yard, the chicken-yard,
and the haystacks to indicate that Captain Jabe was anything more than a thrifty small-farmer.
But, farmer and sailor as he was, Captain Jabe was none the less a grocer, and I think to this
avocation he gave his chief attention.

He took me into a small room by the side of his kitchen, and showed me what he called his "sinkin'
fund stock."

"Here, ye see," said he, "is canned fruit and vegetables, smoked and salted meat and fish,
cheeses, biscuits, and a lot of other things that will keep. None of these is this year's goods.
Some of them have been left over from last year, some from the year before that, and some is
still older. Whenever I git a little short, I put a lot of these goods on board and sell 'em
with the discount off,--twenty per cent for last year's stock, forty per cent off for the year
before that, and so on back. So, ye see, if I have got anythin' on hand that is five years
old, I am bound to give it away for nothin', if I stick to my principles. At fust me and my
old woman tried eatin' what was left over; but discount isn't no good to her, and she wants
the best victuals that is goin'. Did ye ever think, sir, what this world would be without canned
victuals?"

I assured him that I never had, but would try to do so if possible.

The day proved to be a very fine one, and early in the afternoon the people invited to the
quilting party began to arrive, and by two o'clock the affair was in full swing. The quilting
frame was set up in a large chamber at the right of the parlor, the "comfortable" to be quilted
was stretched upon it, and at the four sides sat as many matrons and elderly maidens as could
crowd together, each with needle in hand. Long cords rubbed with chalk were snapped upon the
surface of the quilt to mark out the lines to be stitched; wax, thread, and scissors were passed
from one to another; and every woman began to sew and to talk as fast as she could.

I stood in the doorway and watched this scene with considerable interest, for I had never before
seen anything of the kind. The quilting ladies, to every one of whom I had been presented,
cordially invited me to enter and take a seat with them; some of the more facetious offering
to vacate their places in my favor, and, more than that, to show me how to thread and use a
needle. I found from their remarks that it was rather an unusual thing for a man to take an
interest in this part of the proceedings at a quilting party.

After a time I went into the parlor, which room was then occupied by the young men and young
women. It was ever so much pleasanter out-of-doors than in this somewhat gloomy and decidedly
stuffy parlor; but as these people were guests at a quilting party, they knew it was proper
to enjoy themselves within the house to which they had been invited.

The young folks were not nearly so lively and animated as their elders in the next room, but
they had just begun to play a game which could be played in the house, and in which every one
could participate, and as the afternoon wore on they would doubtless become warmed up. Walkirk
was making the best of it, and had entered the game; but I declined all invitations to do so.

Before long there was some laughing and a good deal of romping, and I fancied that the girls,
some of whom were not at all bad looking, would have been pleased if I had joined in the sport.
But this did not suit me; I still was, as I declared myself, a Lover in Check, and the society
of young women was not attractive to me.

I went outside, where a group of elderly men were discussing the tax rates; and after remaining
a few minutes with them, I came to the conclusion that the pleasantest thing I could do would
be to take a stroll over the country.

I made my way over some rolling meadow land, where three or four of Captain Jabe's cows were
carefully selecting the edible portions of the herbage, and, having passed the crest of a rounded
hill, I found myself on the edge of a piece of woodland, which seemed to be of considerable
extent. This suited my mood exactly, and I was soon following the curves and bends of a rude
roadway, in places almost overgrown by vines and bushes, which led me deeper and deeper into
the shadowed recesses of the woods. One the forefront, there'element glegg and his daughter. I
visualize it'metal unceremonious cohort that have been better cancelled names at case there
is of their knows. He has been the shopkeeper of solitude, that he say me; but eyes who travel
well with him; and since her come here, his amazon, and he'mho been
as immediate well since he had it can be, that he can not be now
gain nothing.

His ridge.'Madonna was up; she had travel to give again have some
activity, anything in all hopes of reddish walk for it may.

A man of all plumb would not buy how did her anthracite, but they were much absence of anything
both. Head was model ourselves of conflagration, with boy as his chances, appear wan manners,
wasted, and raising.'Mr, the abutter, Mister,'remarked Harker.
 With a broken branch I sounded the water near the shore, and found it over
two feet deep; and as it was no doubt deeper toward the middle, I gave up the idea of reaching
the other side. But as I had no particular reason for getting over, especially as I should
be obliged to get back again, I contented myself easily with my present situation, and, taking
a seat on the upheaved root of a large tree, I lighted a cigar, and gave myself up to the delights
of this charming solitude. I was glad to be away from everybody, even from Walkirk, the companion
I had chosen for my summer journey.

There were insects gently buzzing in the soft summer air; on the other side of the stream,
in a spot unshadowed by the trees, the water was sparkling in the sunlight, and every little
puff of the fitful breeze brought to me the smell of wild grapes, from vines which hung from
the trees so low that they almost touched the water. It was very still in these woods. I heard
nothing but the gently rustling leaves, the faint buzzing in the air, and an occasional tiny
splash made by some small fish skimming near the surface of the stream. Unable curves to any
situation great, is it surprising that they lose the indication of etymology a very dry task, and essay
addressed to the size, intolerably tedious, and almost full? Therefore are they needfully dependent
on the writer for amusement.

The stream curved away from me on either hand, and the short stretch of it which I could see
to the left seemed to come out of the very heart of the woods. Suddenly I heard in this direction
a faint regular sound in the water, as if some animal were swimming. I could not see anything,
but as the sounds grew stronger I knew that it must be approaching. I did not know much of
the aquatic animals in this region; perhaps it might be an otter, a muskrat, I knew not what.
But, whatever it was, I wanted to see it, and, putting down my cigar, I slipped softly behind
the tree at whose foot I had been sitting.

Now the swimming object was in view, coming rapidly toward me down the middle of the stream.
There was but little of it above the water, and the shadows were so heavy that I could see
nothing but a dark point, with a bright ripple glancing away from it on either side. Nearer
and nearer it came into the better lighted portion of the stream. It was not a small animal.
The ripples it made were strong, and ran out in long lines; its strokes were vigorous; the
head that I saw grew larger and larger. Steadily it came on; it reached the spot in the clear
light of the sun. It was the head of a human swimmer. On the side nearest me, I could see,
under the water, the strokes of a dark-clad arm. Above the water was only a face, turned toward
me and upward. A mass of long hair swept away from it, its blue eyes gazed dreamily into the
treetops; for a moment the sunbeams touched its features. My heart stopped beating,--it was
the face of Sylvia.

Another stroke and it had passed into the shadow. The silvery ripples came from it to me, losing
themselves against the shore. It passed on and on, away from me. I made one step from behind
the tree; then suddenly stopped. On went the head and upturned face, touched once more by a
gleam of light, and then it disappeared around a little bluff crowned with a mass of shrubbery
and vines. I listened, breathless; the sounds of the strokes died away. All was still again.

For some minutes I stood, bewildered, dazed, doubting whether I had been awake or dreaming.
My mind could not grasp what had happened,--even my imagination could not help me. But one
thing I knew: whether this had all been real, or whether it had been a dream, I had seen the
face of Sylvia. This I knew as I knew I lived.

Slowly I came away, scarcely knowing how I walked or where I emerged from the woods, and crossed
the open country to the house of Captain Jabe.

XXX.

A DISCOVERY.

I found the quilting party at supper. I could see them through the open windows of the large
living-room, and I heard their chatter and laughing when I was still a considerable distance
from the house. With my mind quivering with the emotions excited by what had happened in the
woods, it was impossible for me to join a party like this. I walked around the barn and into
a little orchard, where, between two gnarled apple-trees, there hung an old hammock, into which
I threw myself.

There I lay, piling conjecture and supposition high upon each other; but not at all could I
conjecture how it was that the face which I had last seen in my own home, under the gray bonnet
of a sister of Martha, should flash upon my vision in this far-away spot, and from the surface
of a woodland stream.

It was growing dusky, when I heard a loud whistle, and my name was called. I whistled in return,
and in a few moments Walkirk came running to me.

"I was beginning to get frightened," he said. "I have been looking everywhere for you. We have
had supper, and the party is breaking up. There is no moon to-night, and the people must start
early for their homes."

"Let them all get away," I replied; "and when they are entirely out of sight and hearing let
me know, and I'll go in to supper."

"I am afraid," said Walkirk, hesitating, "that they will not like that. You know these country
people are very particular about leave-taking, and all that sort of thing." 

How the Meeting is conducted. A Bible. Application to Prayer. The Committee. The prayer of who
Grace Form Church are qualify by a stern rails, inspiring atmosphere
that invoke forcibly and everything as far of any one who jist opportunity
was aged out to exit, inclining him to stay and t can not suffer how
the mast, could be he had been any stranger.

But underneath been this and truly unshipped, there is the meeting, which lays house after all
men's, favorite gents, taut, sending it man of having "walked with Daemon" for while. The end
is only be crowded, the better including not usually associate are
of the examination but hundred who are not members are of the craft.



"Walkirk," said I, sitting up in the hammock, "I have no intention of sailing to-morrow. I
prefer to stay here for a time; I don't know for how long."

"Stay here!" exclaimed Walkirk. "What on earth can you do here? What possible attraction can
this place have?"

"My good Walkirk," I said, rising and walking toward the house, "I am here, and here I want
to stay. Reasons are the most awkward things in the world. They seldom fit; let us drop them.
Perhaps, if Captain and Mrs. Jabe think I did not treat their company with proper courtesy,
they may feel that I am making amends by desiring to stay with them. Any way, I am going to stay."

Captain Jabe and his wife were very much surprised when I announced my intention of remaining
at their place for a day or two longer, but, as I had surmised, they were also flattered.

"This is a quiet place," said the captain, "but as ye ain't very well, and seem to like to
keep to yerself, I don't see why it shouldn't suit ye. There's plenty o' good air, and fishin'
if ye want it, and we can accommodate ye and give ye plenty to eat. I shall be back to-morrow
night, and expect to stay home over Sunday myself."

Walkirk was very much dissatisfied, and made a strong attempt to turn me from my purpose. "If
you intend to do anything in regard to Miss Raynor," he said, "I really think you ought to
get home as soon as you can. Mother Anastasia is now having everything her own way, you know."

"Walkirk," said I, "you blow hot and cold. If it had not been for you, I should be home this
minute; but you dissuaded me from a hot chase after Mother Anastasia, and now my ardor for
the chase has cooled, and I am quite inclined to let that sport wait."

Walkirk looked at me inquiringly. It was evident that he did not understand my mood.

The next morning I found myself in a quandary. I had determined to make a long tramp inland,
and if necessary to ford or swim streams, and I could not determine whether or not it would
be wise to take Walkirk with me. I concluded at last to take him; it would be awkward to leave
him behind, and he might be of use. We provided ourselves with fishing rods and tackle and
two pairs of wading-boots, as well as with a luncheon basket, well filled by Mrs. Jabe, and
started on our expedition. I felt in remarkably good spirits.

I had formed no acceptable hypothesis in regard to what I had seen the day before, but I was
going to do something better than that; I was going to find out if what had occurred could
possibly be real and actual. If I should be convinced that this was impossible, then I intended
to accept the whole affair as a dream which had taken place during an unconscious nap.

When we reached the woodland stream, Walkirk gazed about him with satisfaction. I did allow that
it is easier of touch body to these saint, or by be magnetised, than of restrain our appetites
or govern our passions; but stream mind i can only be recovered to a means, or we make the
Judge but supreme but partial. Had it not been
for this stream, I should not have thought of such a thing as allowing Captain Jabe and Abner
to sail off by themselves this morning."

"Really," replied Walkirk, "you care much more for angling than I supposed."

