  No one was arrested for the shooting, the neighborhood having been
  deserted by the police, who were sent up to the place where Charles was
  fighting so desperately. No one could or would give the names of any of
  those who had participated in the chase and the killing, nor could any
  one be found who knew who the Negro was. The patrol wagon was called and
  the terribly mutilated body sent to the morgue and the coroner notified.

  The murdered Negro was copper colored, about 5 feet 11 inches in height,
  about 35 years of age, and was dressed in blue overalls and a brown
  slouch hat. At 10:30 o'clock the vicinity of the French Market was very
  quiet. Squads of special officers were patrolling the neighborhood, and
  there did not seem to be any prospects of disorder.

During the entire time the mob held the city in its hands and went about holding up street
cars and searching them, taking from them colored men to assault, shoot and kill, chasing colored
men upon the public square, through alleys and into houses of anybody who would take them in,
breaking into the homes of defenseless colored men and women and beating aged and decrepit
men and women to death, the police and the legally constituted authorities showed plainly where
their sympathies were, for in no case reported through the daily papers does there appear the
arrest, trial and conviction of one of the mob for any of the brutalities which occurred. The
ringleaders of the mob were at no time disguised. Men were chased, beaten and killed by white
brutes, who boasted of their crimes, and the murderers still walk the streets of New Orleans,
well known and absolutely exempt from prosecution. Not only were they exempt from prosecution
by the police while the town was in the hands of the mob, but even now that law and order is
supposed to resume control, these men, well known, are not now, nor ever will be, called to
account for the unspeakable brutalities of that terrible week. On the other hand, the colored
men who were beaten by the police and dragged into the station for purposes of intimidation,
were quickly called up before the courts and fined or sent to jail upon the statement of the
police. Clara moral beauty makes us sympathetic and interesting; makes us,
the humble maid, poor, helpless and old, in person interesting worthy of poetry and that honor and
glorify the human condition.

Even more poetic, and simpler argument, is the novella A pure soul, that we have spoken. The
old lady who lives given to devotion, who stands and prays frequently Cathedral of the provincial
capital, is very cleverly portrayed. The author achieves almost since then, with good sense
and exquisite art, do we care by Prisca, so is called the old woman.

She also had in his remote youth tender and delicate love.

The purpose of these abandoned her to go to seek their fortune in distant lands. All earnest and
affectionate affections of the soul of Prisca and concentrated, then took refuge in religion,
seeking and finding comfort and solace therein. A single source of sadness clouded and in light
of his thoughts serene. An impious and sacrilegious hands had stolen from the cathedral a small, artistic
and gorgeous, custody. How great would be the joy of Prisca when learned from the canon, his confessor,
a very rich and pious man had sent enough money for another custody, similar to the stolen
and no less beautiful, be at the cost and outside his the ornament and glory of this church! True architect
of considerable merit, or obscure Arfe Cellini, olvidadoen the center of this provincial town,
making the new custody reproducing inspired breathtaking beauties in ancient few seemed. Prisca,
old man's friend architect, goes daily to see and celebrate progress in the manufacture of new
custody. Strange, complicated and passionate mix of emotions stirred the hearts and minds of Prisca
when he learns that the person who made the generous donation is the boyfriend who had abandoned,
which rich and happy lives in very distant regions! Unable to resist his weakened body to the violence
of the emotions that stir the spirit, Prisca falls ill of fatal illness, and breathed his last
when finished and the new custody, passes in solemn and triumphant procession through the door
of his house. The memories of puppy love and the later mysticism of life Prisca amalgamate
and melt gently in his soul in those last moments, purifying and exalting in such a way past
love earth, not heaven's sake profane or put the slightest stain
on cleaning. Patrolman Lorenzo got him and saved
him from being lynched, for the black had an open razor. He was fined $25 or thirty days."

"Edward McCarthy, a white man, mixed up with the crowd, and an expression of sympathy nearly
cost him his head, for some whites about started for him, administering licks and blows with
fists and umbrellas. The recorder fined him $25 or thirty days. He is from New York."

"Then James Martin, a white man, and Simon Montegut, Eddie Call, Henry Turner and Alex Washington
were before the magistrate for having failed to move on when the police ordered them from the
square where the bluecoats were Tuesday, waiting in the hope of catching Charles. All save
Martin and Montegut were fined."

"Eddie Williams, a little Negro who was extremely fresh with the police, was fined $10 or ten
days."

+SHOCKING BRUTALITY+

The whole city was at the mercy of the mob and the display of brutality was a disgrace to civilization.
One instance is described in the Picayune as follows:

  A smaller party detached itself from the mob at Washington and Rampart
  Streets, and started down the latter thoroughfare. One of the foremost
  spied a Negro, and immediately there was a rush for the unfortunate
  black man. With the sticks they had torn from fences on the line of
  march the young outlaws attacked the black and clubbed him unmercifully,
  acting more like demons than human beings. After being severely beaten
  over the head, the Negro started to run with the whole gang at his
  heels. Several revolvers were brought into play and pumped their lead at
  the refugee. The Negro made rapid progress and took refuge behind the
  blinds of a little cottage in Rampart Street, but he had been seen, and
  the mob hauled him from his hiding place and again commenced beating
  him. There were more this time, some twenty or thirty, all armed with
  sticks and heavy clubs, and under their incessant blows the Negro could
  not last long. He begged for mercy, and his cries were most pitiful, but
  a mob has no heart, and his cries were only answered with more blows.

  "For God's sake, boss, I ain't done nothin'. Don't kill me. I swear I
  ain't done nothin'."

  The white brutes turned

+  A DEAF EAR TO THE PITYING CRIES+

  of the black wretch and the drubbing continued. The cries subsided into
  moans, and soon the black swooned away into unconsciousness. Still not
  content with their heartless work, they pulled the Negro out and kicked
  him into the gutter. For the time those who had beaten the black seemed
  satisfied and left him groaning in the gutter, but others came up, and,
  regretting that they had not had a hand in the affair, they determined
  to evidence their bravery to their fellows and beat the man while he was
  in the gutter, hurling rocks and stones at his black form. One
  thoughtless white brute, worse even than the black slayer of the police
  officers, thought to make himself a hero in the eyes of his fellows and
  fired his revolver repeatedly into the helpless wretch. It was dark and
  the fellow probably aimed carelessly. After firing three or four shots
  he also left without knowing what extent of injury he inflicted on the
  black wretch who was left lying in the gutter.

+MURDER ON THE LEVEE+

One part of the crowd made a raid on the tenderloin district, hoping to find there some belated
Negro for a sacrifice. They were urged on by the white prostitutes, who applauded their murderous
mission. Says an account:

  The red light district was all excitement. Women--that is, the white
  women--were out on their stoops and peeping over their galleries and
  through their windows and doors, shouting to the crowd to go on with
  their work, and kill Negroes for them.

  "Our best wishes, boys," they encouraged; and the mob answered with
  shouts, and whenever a Negro house was sighted a bombardment was started
  on the doors and windows.

No colored men were found on the streets until the mob reached Custom House Place and Villiers
Streets. Here a victim was found and brutally put to death. The Picayune description is as follows:

  Some stragglers had run a Negro into a car at the corner of Bienville
  and Villere Streets. He was seeking refuge in the conveyance, and he
  believed that the car would not be stopped and could speed along. But
  the mob determined to stop the car, and ordered the motorman to halt. He
  put on his brake. Some white men were in the car.

  "Get out, fellows," shouted several of the mob.

  "All whites fall out," was the second cry, and the poor Negro understood
  that it was meant that he should stay in the car.

  He wanted to save his life. The poor fellow crawled under the seats. But
  some one in the crowd saw him and yelled that he was hiding. Two or
  three men climbed through the windows with their pistols; others jumped
  over the motorman's board, and dozens tumbled into the rear of the car.
  Big, strong hands got the Negro by the shirt. He was dragged out of the
  conveyance, and was pushed to the street. Some fellow ran up and struck
  him with a club. The blow was heavy, but it did not fell him, and the
  Negro ran toward Canal Street, stealing along the wall of the Tulane
  Medical Building. Fifty men ran after him, caught the poor fellow and
  hurried him back into the crowd. Fists were aimed at him, then clubs
  went upon his shoulders, and finally the black plunged into the gutter.

  A gun was fired, and the Negro, who had just gotten to his feet, dropped
  again. He tried to get up, but a volley was sent after him, and in a
  little while he was dead.

  The crowd looked on at the terrible work. Then the lights in the houses
  of ill-fame began to light up again, and women peeped out of the blinds.
  The motorman was given the order to go on. The gong clanged and the
  conveyance sped out of the way. For half an hour the crowd held their
  place at the corner, then the patrol wagon came and the body was picked
  up and hurried to the morgue.

  Coroner Richard held an autopsy on the body of the Negro who was forced
  out of car 98 of the Villere line and shot down. It was found that he
  was wounded four times, the most serious wound being that which struck
  him in the right side, passing through the lungs, and causing
  hemorrhages, which brought about death.

  Nobody tried to identify the poor fellow and his name is unknown.

+A VICTIM IN THE MARKET+

Soon after the murder of the man on the street car many of the same mob marched down to the
market place. There they found a colored market man named Louis Taylor, who had gone to begin
his early morning's work. He was at once set upon by the mob and killed. The Picayune account says:

  Between 1 and 2 o'clock this morning a mob of several hundred men and
  boys, made up of participants in many of the earlier affairs, marched on
  the French Market. Louis Taylor, a Negro vegetable carrier, who is about
  thirty years of age, was sitting at the soda water stand. As soon as the
  mob saw him fire was opened and the Negro took to his heels. He ran
  directly into another section of the mob and any number of shots were
  fired at him. He fell, face down, on the floor of the market.

  The police in the neighborhood rallied hurriedly and found the victim of
  mob violence seemingly lifeless. Before they arrived the Negro had been
  beaten severely about the head and body. The ambulance was summoned and
  Taylor was carried to the charity hospital, where it was found that he
  had been shot through the abdomen and arm. The examination was a hurried
  one, but it sufficed to show that Taylor was mortally wounded.

  After shooting Taylor the members of the mob were pluming themselves on
  their exploit. "The Nigger was at the soda water stand and we commenced
  shooting him," said one of the rioters. "He put his hands up and ran,
  and we shot until he fell. I understand that he is still alive. If he
  is, he is a wonder. He was certainly shot enough to be killed."

  The members of the mob readily admitted that they had taken part in the
  assaults which marked the earlier part of the evening.

  "We were up on Jackson Avenue and killed a Nigger on Villere Street. We
  came down here, saw a nigger and killed him, too." This was the way they
  told the story.

  "Boys, we are out of ammunition," said someone.

  "Well, we will keep on like we are, and if we can't get some before
  morning, we will take it. We have got to keep this thing up, now we have
  started."

  This declaration was greeted by a chorus of applauding yells, and the
  crowd started up the levee. Half of the men in the crowd, and they were
  all of them young, were drunk.

  Taylor, when seen at the charity hospital, was suffering greatly, and
  presented a pitiable spectacle. His clothing was covered with blood, and
  his face was beaten almost into a pulp. He said that he had gone to the
  market to work and was quietly sitting down when the mob came and began
  to fire on him. He was not aware at first that the crowd was after him.
  When he saw its purpose he tried to run, but fell. He didn't know any of
  the men in the crowd. There is hardly a chance that Taylor will recover.

  The police told the crowd to move on, but no attempt was made to arrest
  anyone.

+A GRAY-HAIRED VICTIM+

The bloodthirsty barbarians, having tasted blood, continued their hunt and soon ran across
an old man of seventy-five years. His life had been spent in hard work about the French market,
and he was well known as an unoffending, peaceable and industrious old man.

But that made no difference to the mob. He was a Negro, and with a fiendishness that was worse
than that of cannibals they beat his life out. The report says:

  There was another gang of men parading the streets in the lower part of
  the city, looking for any stray Negro who might be on the streets. As
  they neared the corner of Dauphine and Kerlerec, a square below
  Esplanade Avenue, they came upon Baptiste Thilo, an aged Negro, who
  works in the French Market.

  Thilo for years has been employed by the butchers and fish merchants to
  carry baskets from the stalls to the wagons, and unload the wagons as
  they arrive in the morning. He was on his way to the market, when the
  mob came upon him. One of the gang struck the old Negro, and as he fell,
  another in the crowd, supposed to be a young fellow, fired a shot. The
  bullet entered the body just below the right nipple.

  As the Negro fell the crowd looked into his face and they discovered
  then that the victim was very old. The young man who did the shooting
  said: "Oh, he is an old Negro. I'm sorry that I shot him."

  This is all the old Negro received in the way of consolation.

  He was left where he fell, but later staggered to his feet and made his
  way to the third precinct station. There the police summoned the
  ambulance and the students pronounced the wound very dangerous. He was
  carried to the hospital as rapidly as possible.

  There was no arrest.

Just before daybreak the mob found another victim. He, too, was on his way to market, driving
a meat wagon. But little is told of his treatment, nothing more than the following brief statement:

  At nearly 3 o'clock this morning a report was sent to the Third Precinct
  station that a Negro was lying on the sidewalk at the corner of Decatur
  and St. Philip. The man had been pulled off of a meat wagon and riddled
  with bullets.

  When the police arrived he was insensible and apparently dying. The
  ambulance students attended the Negro and pronounced the wounds fatal. Certainly,
these reliefs were once loving some bickering between them. Because less loving and tolerant with
the child had shown were most extreme now man. This out of their boxes to Ms. Eloisa, Mrs. Teodora
and Ms Marciala, who always treated him with gentleness and even
mime.

Preparations began for the first mass. It was a contest of beauties among them. The rich, as
Ms Eloisa and Mrs Theodora, was commissioned to buy the cup and costly ornaments, which did not
have such good fortune, as Ms Rita Ms Filomena and others, supplemented money with the skill of
their hands embroidering the alb, stole and altar cloth, which caused admiration. Fixed the
church and took part in the decoration not only these women, but many of the people, their friends.
It was an event Peñascosa brand, both for the quality of the people who had paid for the career
of the young priest, for the terrible circumstances that had led to such protection. The officiating
was named godmother to Ms. Eloisa, an indication of that. None had better right to it, but all
are believed to both, and this again cause some palabrillas secret resentments and unpleasant.
The pay he returned to the village and sang with weak and trembling
voice: - Dominus vobiscum.

All the voices of the podium, tears and waterfalls, he was told accompanied
by the roar of the organ: - Et cum spiritu tuooooo. - What is white!
- Said a young artisan's companion at his side. - Looks like a picture.

Sang
D. Narciso high-pitched voice, lowering and raising the tone and
listened with pleasure, the epistle. - Child, how repicotea the chaplain!
- Repeated the craft. - You see, there is the daughter of the hunchback.

Want to show off. He was very kind accredited in the town that D.
Narciso and Osuna girl felt a mutual inclination, but only the spirits
heterodox and thugs dared to say aloud.

D. Narcissus was indeed given much to live among the weaker sex to
enter the fort.

So would Sarrió came
about three years, more or less, was the idol of the ladies of Peñascosa
an elegant carriage, which was opposed to the sloppiness of most of
the priests of the town, for his cheerful conversation, for his little
jokes and, above all, his hobby to be always among them.

Was far from being beautiful or handsome, was a man of about thirty-five,
dry, dark, big feet and juanetudos and ugly teeth, but had managed
to pass at once funny place.

He never talked seriously to her devoted friends. Little joke goes,
has little joke, a compliment to this, a chufleta to another, without
ever to be shortened in the middle of a large circle.

In contrast, D. Narcissus extremely
pleased about it, enjoyed field only in the henhouse.

Directed the consciousness of most of them and berate them was permitted
outside the confessional, sometimes harshly.

Almost all corrections received their submission, even with pleasure,
and if you temporarily revolted, was to demand forgiveness immediately.

With this, Don Narciso was the guest at every party obliged and Gaudeamus
Peñascosa fashionable society, ate voraciously, and flaunting it, drank
the same tenor, and when the desserts arrived, never failed to provide
it with some coplita was almost always dirty.

Because D. Narcissus, who because of his ministry could not be approved
jokes concerning sex relationships to sex, it was believed with the
right to drop the most nasty about other miseries of the human body.

And ladies bizarre case! the laughing and celebrating as if they were prodigious cleverness
and wit. Two years after arriving in the village had been a failure. Down the stairs of a certain
house that he frequented a lot, broke his leg. They said the lady's husband, who owned the house,
had helped him to fall, not entirely agree with the time and occasion of their visits, but the
moment the good souls of Peñascosa rushed to quell this rumor sacrilegious. And as proof of
the indignation with which rejected the case, most leading ladies of the town were established
in nurses beside his bed, not leaving a single moment, day and night taking turns every few hours,
as if the Blessed hiciesen guard . D. Narciso deserved these attentions of the fair sex. No harder
and never dealt fervent zeal for the salvation of the beautiful half of mankind.
 As he did
  several white men standing at the locomotive made a rush into the cab.
  The Negro sprang swiftly out of the other side, on to the sidewalk. But
  there were several more men, and as he realized that he was rushing
  right into their arms he made a spring to leap over the fence of Mrs.
  Linden's home, on the wood side of the track. Before the Negro got to
  the top one white man had hold of his legs, while another rushed up,
  pistol in hand. The man who was holding the darkey's legs was jostled
  out of the way and the man with the pistol, standing directly beneath
  the Negro, sent two bullets at him.

  There was a wild scramble, and the vision of a fleeing form in the
  Linden yard, but that was the last seen of the black man. The yard was
  entered and searched, and neighboring yards were also searched, but not
  even the trace of blood was found. It is almost impossible to believe
  that the Negro was not wounded, for the man who fired at him held the
  pistol almost against the Negro's body.

  The shots brought out almost everybody--white--in town, and though there
  was nothing to show for the exciting work, except the arrest of the
  Negro, who doesn't answer the description of the man wanted, Gretna's
  male population had its little fan and felt amply repaid for all the
  trouble it was put to, and all the ammunition it wasted.

+BRUTALITY IN NEW ORLEANS+

Mob rule reigned supreme Wednesday, and the scenes that were enacted challenge belief. How
many colored men and women were abused and injured is not known, for those who escaped were
glad to make a place of refuge and took no time to publish their troubles. The mob made no
attempt to find Charles; its only purpose was to pursue, beat and kill any colored man or woman
who happened to come in sight. Speaking editorially, the Picayune of Thursday, the twenty-sixth
of July, said:

+ESCAPED WITH THEIR LIVES+

At the Charity Hospital Wednesday night more than a score of people were treated for wounds
received at the hands of the mob. Some were able to tell of their mistreatment, and their recitals
are briefly given in the Picayune as follows:

  Alex. Ruffin, who is quite seriously injured, is a Pullman car porter, a
  native of Chicago. He reached New Orleans at 9:20 o'clock last night,
  and after finishing his work, boarded a Henry Clay Avenue car to go to
  Delachaise Street, where he has a sick son.

  "I hadn't ridden any way," said he, "when I saw a lot of white folks.
  They were shouting to 'Get the Niggers.' I didn't know they were after
  every colored man they saw, and sat still. Two or three men jumped on
  the car and started at me. One of them hit me over the head with a
  slungshot, and they started to shooting at me. I jumped out of the car
  and ran, although I had done nothing. They shot me in the arm and in the
  leg. I would certainly have been killed had not some gentleman taken my
  part. If I had known New Orleans was so excited I would never have left
  my car."

  George Morris is the name of a Negro who was badly injured by a mob
  which went through the Poydras Market. Morris is employed as watchman
  there. He heard the noise of the passing crowd and looked out to see
  what the matter was. As soon as the mob saw him its members started
  after him.

  "One man hit me over the head with a club," said George, after his
  wounds had been dressed, "and somebody cut me in the back. I didn't
  hardly think what was the matter at first, but when I saw they were
  after me I ran for my life. I ran to the coffee stand, where I work, for
  protection, but they were right after me, and somebody shot me in the
  back. At last the police got me away from the crowd. Just before I was
  hit a friend of mine, who was in the crowd, said, 'You had better go
  home, Nigger; they're after your kind.' I didn't know then what he
  meant. I found out pretty quick."

  Morris is at the hospital. He is a perfect wreck, and while he will
  probably get well, he will have had a close call.

  Esther Fields is a Negro washerwoman who lives at South Claiborne and
  Toledano Streets. She was at home when she heard a big noise and went
  out to investigate. D. Narciso advantage this
shadow of rivalry to keep them more prone. - Oh, ladies, should not
envy you the privilege!

You have husbands who watch and serve.

She said in an ironic twang that demonstrated that the chaplain secret
hostility felt towards all the husbands.

The ladies in the charms of those who did not exercise any fascination and, forced smile and mischievously
as saying: "Ya, ya!" It was whispered that he had several love with him. Ms Marciala, the wife
of the apothecary of the place, had gone to Sarrió to bring socks to be a priest passing time
with her family. Ms Filomena, widow of a lieutenant, his only son was going to help to Mass every
day. However, he had noticed in him a preference Obdulia, the daughter of Osuna, manager of Montesinos.
- But it really did go like? - Asked the young artisan, listening
to his partner so plainly. - Girl, I do not know!

What I can say is that D. Narcissus leaves the house, and many days
of my window I see them run one after another in the garden of Montesinos
play hide and seek ... So much so that I told. - Have you told him!
- Exclaimed the other, stunned. - Yes, girl ... Can not you see I
confess to him?

...
There was nothing ... I said, 'Look, D. Narciso ... do not be offended
... but I, you and Obdulia watching them play in the garden, I have
suspicions ... I can think evil thoughts.

"- Ave Maria, how awful!

And what did he say? - He got all choked ... Ugh! Began to say: "For you and others like you
lose the credit and honor priests and religious decay!"

I called bag of malice, that I could not believe that such atrocities
occurred, and that here and there ... At first I wanted to eat, then
went quieting ... "You're right, D. Narciso, I replied, but I can
not help ... "And it's true, girl I can not help it ... I can not!

After the letter
Peñascosa pastor sang the Gospel.

He had a raspy voice without inflection. Without looking completely distracted sang just the book, lifting
his eyes small and hard over the glasses to look at him, rather,
to spray with an eye to the Pepaina son, who was secretly starting
to drool and saving candles pocket.

Although one of the most shameless rascals of the town, Lorito (which
by that name was known this young man distinguished) was disturbed
and uneasy under the gaze tantico cleric.

The thing with good reason. D. Miguel Vigil, pastor of rock, from the 25 year of this century was one
of the worst men of genius of Spain, and not exaggerate if we say nothing of the globe.


Charles had his first encounter with the police Monday night, in which he was shot in the street
duel which was begun by the police after Officer Mora had beaten Charles three or four times
over the head with his billy in an attempt to make an illegal arrest. In defending himself
against the combined attack of two officers with a billy and their guns upon him, Charles shot
Officer Mora and escaped.

Early Tuesday morning Charles was traced to Dryades Street by officers who were instructed
to kill him on sight. There, again defending himself, he shot and killed two officers. This,
of course, in the eyes of the American press, made him a desperado. The New Orleans press,
in substantiating the charges that he was a desperado, make statements which will be interesting
to examine.

In the first place the New Orleans Times-Democrat, of July 25, calls Charles a "ravisher and
a daredevil." It says that from all sources that could be searched "the testimony was cumulative
that the character of the murderer, Robert Charles, is that of a daredevil and a fiend in human
form." Then in the same article it says:

  The belongings of Robert Charles which were found in his room were a
  complete index to the character of the man. Although the room and its
  contents were in a state of chaos on account of the frenzied search for
  clews by officers and citizens, an examination of his personal effects
  revealed the mental state of the murderer and the rancor in his heart
  toward the Caucasian race. Never was the adage, "A little learning is a
  dangerous thing," better exemplified than in the case of the negro who
  shot to death the two officers.

His room was searched, and the evidence upon which the charge that he was a desperado consisted
of pamphlets in support of Negro emigration to Liberia. On his mantel-piece there was found
a bullet mold and an outfit for reloading cartridges. There were also two pistol scabbards
and a bottle of cocaine. The other evidences that Charles was a desperado the writer described
as follows:

  In his room were found negro periodicals and other "race" propaganda,
  most of which was in the interest of the negro's emigration to Liberia.
  There were Police Gazettes strewn about his room and other papers of a
  similar character. Well-worn textbooks, bearing his name written in his
  own scrawling handwriting, and well-filled copybooks found in his trunk
  showed that he had burnt the midnight oil, and was desirous of improving
  himself intellectually in order that he might conquer the hated white
  race. Much of the literature found among his chattels was of a
  superlatively vituperative character, and attacked the white race in
  unstinted language and asserted the equal rights of the Negro.

  Charles was evidently the local agent of the Voice of Missions, a
  "religious" paper, published at Atlanta, as great bundles of that sheet
  were found. It is edited by one Bishop Turner, and seems to be the
  official organ of all haters of the white race. Its editorials are
  anarchistic in the extreme, and urge upon the negro that the sooner he
  realizes that he is as good as the white man the better it will be for
  him. The following verses were clipped from the journal; they were
  marked "till forbidden," and appeared in several successive numbers:

        OUR SENTIMENTS

        H.M.T.

        My country, 'tis of thee,
        Dear land of Africa,
          Of thee we sing.
        Land where our fathers died,
        Land of the Negro's pride,
          God's truth shall ring.

        My native country, thee,
        Land of the black and free,
          Thy name I love;
        To see thy rocks and rills,
        Thy woods and matchless hills,
          Like that above.

        When all thy slanderous ghouls,
        In the bosom of sheol,
          Forgotten lie,
        Thy monumental name shall live,
        And suns thy royal brow shall gild,
        Upheaved to heaven high,
          O'ertopping thrones.

  There were no valuables in his room, and if he was a professional thief
  he had his headquarters for storing his plunder at some other place than
  his room on Fourth Street. Nothing was found in his room that could lead
  to the belief that he was a thief, except fifty or more small bits of
  soap. The inference was that every place he visited he took all of the
  soap lying around, as all of the bits were well worn and had seen long
  service on the washstand.

  His wearing apparel was little more than rags, and financially he was
  evidently not in a flourishing condition. He was in no sense a skilled
  workman, and his room showed, in fact, that he was nothing more than a
  laborer.

  The "philosopher in the garret" was a dirty wretch, and his room, his
  bedding and his clothing were nasty and filthy beyond belief. His object
  in life seemed to have been the discomfiture of the white race, and to
  this purpose he devoted himself with zeal. He declared himself to be a
  "patriot," and wished to be the Moses of his race.

Under the title of "The Making of a Monster," the reporter attempts to give "something of the
personality of the archfiend, Charles." Giving his imagination full vent the writer says:

  It is only natural that the deepest interest should attach to the
  personality of Robert Charles. What manner of man was this fiend
  incarnate? What conditions developed him? Who were his preceptors? From
  what ancestral strain, if any, did he derive his ferocious hatred of the
  whites, his cunning, his brute courage, the apostolic zeal which he
  displayed in spreading the propaganda of African equality? These are
  questions involving one of the most remarkable psychological problems of
  modern times.

In answer to the questions which he propounds, the reporter proceeds to admit that he did not
learn anything of a very desperate nature connected with Charles. He says:

  Although Charles was a familiar figure to scores of Negroes in New
  Orleans, and they had been more or less intimately acquainted with him
  for over two years, curiously little can be learned of his habits or
  mode of life. Since the perpetration of his terrible series of crimes it
  goes without saying that his former friends are inclined to be reticent,
  but it is reasonably certain that they have very little to tell. In
  regard to himself, Charles was singularly reticent for a Negro. He did
  not even indulge in the usual lying about his prowess and his
  adventures. This was possibly due to the knowledge that he was wanted
  for a couple of murders. The man had sense enough to know that it would
  be highly unwise to excite any curiosity about his past.

  When Charles first came to New Orleans he worked here and there as a day
  laborer. He was employed at different times in a sawmill, on the street
  gangs, as a roustabout on the levee, as a helper at the sugar works and
  as a coal shoveler in the engine room of the St. Charles Hotel. At each
  of the places where he worked he was known as a quiet, rather surly
  fellow, who had little to say to anybody, and generally performed his
  tasks in morose silence. But
when there wasn't any or when there would not be any more chiefs, will we refer to them even
with a different name of nickname? Since before Cadmo relocated to Greece, and before Saturn reigned
in Italy, in Greece and in Italy there were chiefs.

  A Negro named William Butts, who drives a team on the levee and lives on
  Washington Street, near Baronne, told a Times-Democrat reporter
  yesterday that Charles got a job about a year ago as agent for a
  Liberian Immigration Society, which has headquarters at Birmingham, and
  was much elated at the prospect of making a living without hard labor.

According to the further investigations of this reporter, Charles was also agent for Bishop
Turner's Voice of Missions, the colored missionary organ of the African Methodist Church, edited
by H.M. Turner, of Atlanta, Georgia. Concerning his service as agent for the Voice of Missions,
the reporter says:

  He secured a number of subscribers and visited them once a month to
  collect the installments. The aggressiveness
of the exercise had him a feeling a little humilating. Always loving and thoughful while helping
out Ms Eloisa, and paying for the upbringing . As he was sent to school a couple house and
a craftsman lived close by a widower who always showed signs of peace, love and sensitivity towards
the kids as we were off to learned our school lessons
 Incidentally he
  solicited subscribers for a Negro paper called the Voice of the
  Missions, and when he struck a Negro who did not want to go to Africa
  himself, he begged contributions for the "good of the cause."

  In the course of time Charles developed into a fanatic on the subject of
  the Negro oppression and neglected business to indulge in wild tirades
  whenever he could find a listener. He became more anxious to make
  converts than to obtain subscribers, and the more conservative darkies
  began to get afraid of him. Meanwhile he got into touch with certain
  agitators in the North and made himself a distributing agent for their
  literature, a great deal of which he gave away. 

Ramona is the daughter of a wealthy loan shark. Due to her father's reputation, she is able to attend
an elite, aristocratic girl's school.
 Turner is a man of unusual
  ability, has been over to Africa personally several times, and has made
  himself conspicuous by denouncing laws which he claimed discriminated
  against the blacks. Charles was one of the bishop's disciples and
  evidence has been found that seems to indicate they were in
  correspondence.

This was all that the Times-Democrat's reporters could find after the most diligent search
to prove that Charles was the fiend incarnate which the press of New Orleans and elsewhere
declared him to be.

