Aguado, who had apparently been found faithful in small matters, was found wanting in his use
of the authority that had been entrusted to him. It seems to have turned his head; for instead
of beginning quietly to investigate the affairs of the colony as he had been commanded to do
he took over from Bartholomew the actual government, and interpreted his commission as giving
him the right to supersede the Admiral himself.  The unhappy colony, which had no doubt been
enjoying some brief period of peace under the wise direction of Bartholomew, was again thrown
into confusion by the doings of Aguado.  He arrested this person, imprisoned that; ordered
that things should be done this way, which had formerly been done that way; and if they had
formerly been done that way, then he ordered that they should be done this way--in short he
committed every mistake possible for a man in his situation armed with a little brief authority.
He did not hesitate to let it be known that he was there to examine the conduct of the Admiral
himself; and we may be quite sure that every one in the colony who had a grievance or an ill
tale to carry, carried it to Aguado.  His whole attitude was one of enmity and disloyalty to
the Admiral who had so handsomely recommended him to the notice of the Sovereigns; and so undisguised
was his attitude that even the Indians began to lodge their complaints and to see a chance
by which they might escape from the intolerable burden of the gold tribute.

It was at this point that Columbus returned and found Aguado ruling in the place of Bartholomew,
who had wisely made no protest against his own deposition, but was quietly waiting for the
Admiral to return.  Columbus might surely have been forgiven if he had betrayed extreme anger
and annoyance at the doings of Aguado; and it is entirely to his credit that he concealed such
natural wrath as he may have felt, and greeted Aguado with extreme courtesy and ceremony as
a representative of the Sovereigns. He made no protest, but decided to return himself to Spain
and confront the jealousy and ill-fame that were accumulating against him.

Just as the ships were all ready to sail, one of the hurricanes which occur periodically in
the West Indies burst upon the island, lashing the sea into a wall of advancing foam that destroyed
everything before it. Among other things it destroyed three out of the four ships, dashing
them on the beach and reducing them to complete wreckage.  The only one that held to her anchor
and, although much battered and damaged, rode out the gale, was the Nina, that staunch little
friend that had remained faithful to the Admiral through so many dangers and trials.  There
was nothing for it but to build a new ship out of the fragments of the wrecks, and to make
the journey home with two ships instead of with four.

At this moment, while he was waiting for the ship to be completed, Columbus heard a piece of
news of a kind that never failed to rouse his interest.  There was a young Spaniard named Miguel
Diaz who had got into disgrace in Isabella some time before on account of a duel, and had wandered
into the island until he had come out on the south coast at the mouth of the river Ozama, near
the site of the present town of Santo Domingo.  There he had fallen in love with a female cacique
and had made his home with her.  She, knowing the Spanish taste, and anxious to please her
lover and to retain him in her territory, told him of some rich gold-mines that there were
in the neighbourhood, and suggested that he should inform the Admiral, who would perhaps remove
the settlement from Isabella to the south coast.  She provided him with guides and sent him
off to Isabella, where, hearing that his antagonist had recovered, and that he himself was
therefore in no danger of punishment, he presented himself with his story.

Columbus immediately despatched Bartholomew with a party to examine the mines; and sure enough
they found in the river Hayna undoubted evidence of a wealth far in excess of that contained
in the Cibao gold-mines. Moreover, they had noticed two ancient excavations about which the
natives could tell them nothing, but which made them think that the mines had once been worked.

Columbus was never backward in fitting a story and a theory to whatever phenomena surrounded
him; and in this case he was certain that the excavations were the work of Solomon, and that
he had discovered the gold of Ophir.  "Sure enough," thinks the Admiral, "I have hit it this
time; and the ships came eastward from the Persian Gulf round the Golden Chersonesus, which
I discovered this very last winter."  Immediately, as his habit was, Columbus began to build
castles in Spain.  Here was a fine answer to Buil and Margarite!  Without waiting a week or
two to get any of the gold this extraordinary man decided to hurry off at once to Spain with
the news, not dreaming that Spain might, by this time, have had a surfeit of news, and might
be in serious need of some simple, honest facts.  But he thought his two caravels sufficiently
freighted with this new belief--the belief that he had discovered the Ophir of Solomon.

The Admiral sailed on March 10th, 1496, carrying with him in chains the vanquished Caonabo
and other natives.  He touched at Marigalante and at Guadaloupe, where his people had an engagement
with the natives, taking several prisoners, but releasing them all again with the exception
of one woman, a handsome creature who had fallen in love with Caonabo and refused to go.  But
for Caonabo the joys of life and love were at an end; his heart and spirit were broken.  He
was not destined to be paraded as a captive through the streets of Spain, and it was somewhere
in the deep Atlantic that he paid the last tribute to the power that had captured and broken
him.  He died on the voyage, which was longer and much more full of hardships than usual. 
For some reason or other Columbus did not take the northerly route going home, but sailed east
from Gaudaloupe, encountering the easterly trade winds, which delayed him so much that the
voyage occupied three months instead of six weeks.

Once more he exhibited his easy mastery of the art of navigation and his extraordinary gift
for estimating dead-reckoning.  After having been out of sight of land for eight weeks, and
while some of the sailors thought they might be in the Bay of Biscay, and others that they
were in the English Channel, the Admiral suddenly announced that they were close to Cape Saint
Vincent.

No land was in sight, but he ordered that sail should be shortened that evening; and sure enough
the next morning they sighted the land close by Cape Saint Vincent.  Columbus managed his landfalls
with a fine dramatic sense as though they were conjuring tricks; and indeed they must have
seemed like conjuring tricks, except that they were almost always successful.

CHAPTER IV

IN SPAIN AGAIN

The loiterers about the harbour of Cadiz saw a curious sight on June 11th, 1496, when the two
battered ships, bearing back the voyagers from the Eldorado of the West, disembarked their
passengers.  There were some 220 souls on board, including thirty Indians: and instead of leaping
ashore, flushed with health, and bringing the fortunes which they had gone out to seek, they
crawled miserably from the boats or were carried ashore, emaciated by starvation, yellow with
disease, ragged and unkempt from poverty, and with practically no possessions other than the
clothes they stood up in.  Even the Admiral, now in his forty-sixth year, hardly had the appearance
that one would expect in a Viceroy of the Indies.  His white hair and beard were rough and
matted, his handsome face furrowed by care and sunken by illness and exhaustion, and instead
of the glittering armour and uniform of his office he wore the plain robe and girdle of the
Franciscan order--this last probably in consequence of some vow or other he had made in an
hour of peril on the voyage.

One lucky coincidence marked his arrival.  In the harbour, preparing to weigh anchor, was a
fleet of three little caravels, commanded by Pedro Nino, about to set out for Espanola with
supplies and despatches. Columbus hurried on board Nino's ship, and there read the letters
from the Sovereigns which it had been designed he should receive in Espanola. The letters are
not preserved, but one can make a fair guess at their contents.  Some searching questions would
certainly be asked, kind assurances of continued confidence would doubtless be given, with
many suggestions for the betterment of affairs in the distant colony.  Only their result upon
the Admiral is known to us.  He sat down there and then and wrote to Bartholomew, urging him
to secure peace in the island by every means in his power, to send home any caciques or natives
who were likely to give trouble, and most of all to push on with the building of a settlement
on the south coast where the new mines were, and to have a cargo of gold ready to send back
with the next expedition.  Having written this letter, the Admiral saw the little fleet sail
away on June 17th, and himself prepared with mingled feelings to present himself before his
Sovereigns.

While he was waiting for their summons at Los Palacios, a small town near Seville, he was the
guest of the curate of that place, Andrez Bernaldez, who had been chaplain to Christopher's
old friend DEA, the Archbishop of Seville.  This good priest evidently proved a staunch friend
to Columbus at this anxious period of his life, for the Admiral left many important papers
in his charge when he again left Spain, and no small part of the scant contemporary information
about Columbus that has come down to us is contained in the 'Historia de los Reyes Catolicos',
which Bernaldez wrote after the death of Columbus.

Fickle Spain had already forgotten its first sentimental enthusiasm over the Admiral's discoveries,
and now was only interested in their financial results.  People cannot be continually excited
about a thing which they have not seen, and there were events much nearer home that absorbed
the public interest.  There was the trouble with France, the contemplated alliance of the Crown
Prince with Margaret of Austria, and of the Spanish Princess Juana with Philip of Austria;
and there were the designs of Ferdinand upon the kingdom of Naples, which was in his eyes a
much more desirable and valuable prize than any group of unknown islands beyond the ocean.

Columbus did his very best to work up enthusiasm again.  He repeated the performance that had
been such a success after his first voyage--the kind of circus procession in which the natives
were marched in column surrounded by specimens of the wealth of the Indies.  But somehow it
did not work so well this time.  Where there had formerly been acclamations and crowds pressing
forward to view the savages and their ornaments, there were now apathy and a dearth of spectators.
And although Columbus did his very best, and was careful to exhibit every scrap of gold that
he had brought, and to hang golden collars and ornaments about the necks of the marching Indians,
his exhibition was received either in ominous silence or, in some quarters, with something
like derision.  As I have said before, there comes a time when the best-disposed debtors do
not regard themselves as being repaid by promises, and when the most enthusiastic optimist
desires to see something more than samples. It was only old Colon going round with his show
again--flamingoes, macaws, seashells, dye-woods, gums and spices; some people laughed, and
some were angry; but all were united in thinking that the New World was not a very profitable
speculation.

Things were a little better, however, at Court.  Isabella certainly believed still in Columbus;
Ferdinand, although he had never been enthusiastic, knew the Admiral too well to make the vulgar
mistake of believing him an impostor; and both were too polite and considerate to add to his
obvious mortification and distress by any discouraging comments.  Moreover, the man himself
had lost neither his belief in the value of his discoveries nor his eloquence in talking of
them; and when he told his story to the Sovereigns they could not help being impressed, not
only with his sincerity but with his ability and single-heartedness also.  It was almost the
same old story, of illimitable wealth that was just about to be acquired, and perhaps no one
but Columbus could have made it go down once more with success; but talking about his exploits
was never any trouble to him, and his astonishing conviction, the lofty and dignified manner
in which he described both good and bad fortune, and the impressive way in which he spoke of
the wealth of the gold of Ophir and of the far-reaching importance of his supposed discovery
of the Golden Chersonesus and the mainland of Asia, had their due effect on his hearers.

It was always his way, plausible Christopher, to pass lightly over the premises and to dwell
with elaborate detail on the deductions.  It was by no means proved that he had discovered
the mines of King Solomon; he had never even seen the place which he identified with them;
it was in fact nothing more than an idea in his own head; but we may be sure that he took it
as an established fact that he had actually discovered the mines of Ophir, and confined his
discussion to estimates of the wealth which they were likely to yield, and of what was to be
done with the wealth when the mere details of conveying it from the mines to the ships had
been disposed of.  So also with the Golden Chersonesus.  The very name was enough to stop the
mouths of doubters; and here was the man himself who had actually been there, and here was
a sworn affidavit from every member of his crew to say that they had been there too.  This
kind of logic is irresistible if you only grant the first little step; and Columbus had the
art of making it seem an act of imbecility in any of his hearers to doubt the strength of the
little link by which his great golden chains of argument were fastened to fact and truth.

For Columbus everything depended upon his reception by the Sovereigns at this time.  Unless
he could re-establish his hold upon them and move to a still more secure position in their
confidence he was a ruined man and his career was finished; and one cannot but sympathise with
him as he sits there searching his mind for tempting and convincing arguments, and speaking
so calmly and gravely and confidently in spite of all the doubts and flutterings in his heart.
Like a tradesman setting out his wares, he brought forth every inducement he could think of
to convince the Sovereigns that the only way to make a success of what they had already done
was to do more; that the only way to make profitable the money that had already been spent
was to spend more; that the only way to prove the wisdom of their trust in him was to trust
him more.  One of his transcendent merits in a situation of this kind was that he always had
something new and interesting to propose.  He did not spread out his hands and say, "This is
what I have done: it is the best I can do; how are you going to treat me?"  He said in effect,
"This is what I have done; you will see that it will all come right in time; do not worry about
it; but meanwhile I have something else to propose which I think your Majesties will consider
a good plan."

His new demand was for a fleet of six ships, two of which were to convey supplies to Espanola,
and the other four to be entrusted to him for the purpose of a voyage of discovery towards
the mainland to the south of Espanola, of which he had heard consistent rumours; which was
said to be rich in gold, and (a clever touch) to which the King of Portugal was thinking of
sending a fleet, as he thought that it might lie within the limits of his domain of heathendom.
And so well did he manage, and so deeply did he impress the Sovereigns with his assurance that
this time the thing amounted to what is vulgarly called "a dead certainty," that they promised
him he should have his ships.

But promise and performance, as no one knew better than Columbus, are different things; and
it was a long while before he got his ships.  There was the usual scarcity of money, and the
extensive military and diplomatic operations in which the Crown was then engaged absorbed every
maravedi that Ferdinand could lay his hands on.  There was an army to be maintained under the
Pyrenees to keep watch over France; fleets had to be kept patrolling both the Mediterranean
and Atlantic seaboards; and there was a whole armada required to convey the princesses of Spain
and Austria to their respective husbands in connection with the double matrimonial alliance
arranged between the two countries.  And when at last, in October 1496, six million maravedis
were provided wherewith Columbus might equip his fleet, they were withdrawn again under very
mortifying circumstances.  The appropriation had just been made when a letter arrived from
Pedro Nino, who had been to Espanola and come back again, and now wrote from Cadiz to the Sovereigns,
saying that his ships were full of gold.  He did not present himself at Court, but went to
visit his family at Huelva; but the good news of his letter was accepted as an excuse for this
oversight.

No one was better pleased than the Admiral.  "What did I tell you?"  he says; "you see the
mines of Hayna are paying already."  King Ferdinand, equally pleased, and having an urgent
need of money in connection with his operations against France, took the opportunity to cancel
the appropriation of the six million maravedis, giving Columbus instead an order for the amount
to be paid out of the treasure brought home by Nino. Alas, the mariner's boast of gold had
been a figure of speech.  There was no gold; there was only a cargo of slaves, which Nino deemed
the equivalent of gold; and when Bartholomew's despatches came to be read he described the
affairs of Espanola as being in very much the same condition as before.  This incident produced
a most unfortunate impression.  Even Columbus was obliged to keep quiet for a little while;
and it is likely that the mention of six million maravedis was not welcomed by him for some
time afterwards.

