MYTHS AND LEGENDS
                                   OF
                              OUR OWN LAND

                                   By
                           Charles M. Skinner

                                Vol. 1.

                        THE HUDSON AND ITS HILLS

CONTENTS OF ALL VOLUMES:

THE HUDSON AND ITS HILLS

Rip Van Winkle Catskill Gnomes The Catskill Witch The Revenge of Shandaken Condemned to the
Noose Big Indian The Baker's Dozen The Devil's Dance-Chamber The Culprit Fay Pokepsie Dunderberg
Anthony's Nose Moodua Creek A Trapper's Ghastly Vengeance The Vanderdecken of Tappan Zee The
Galloping Hessian Storm Ship on the Hudson Why Spuyten Duyvil is so Named The Ramapo Salamander
Chief Croton The Retreat from Mahopac Niagara The Deformed of Zoar Horseheads Kayuta and Waneta
The Drop Star The Prophet of Palmyra A Villain's Cremation The Monster Mosquito The Green Picture
The Nuns of Carthage The Skull in the Wall The Haunted Mill Old Indian Face The Division of
the Saranacs An Event in Indian Park The Indian Plume Birth of the Water-Lily Rogers's Slide
The Falls at Cohoes Francis Woolcott's Night-Riders Polly's Lover Crosby, the Patriot Spy The
Lost Grave of Paine The Rising of Gouverneur Morris

THE ISLE OF MANHATTOES AND NEARBY

Dolph Heyliger The Knell at the Wedding Roistering Dirck Van Dara The Party from Gibbet Island
Miss Britton's Poker The Devil's Stepping-Stones The Springs of Blood and Water The Crumbling
Silver The Cortelyou Elopement Van Wempel's Goose The Weary Watcher The Rival Fiddlers Wyandank
Mark of the Spirit Hand The First Liberal Church

ON AND NEAR THE DELAWARE

The Phantom Dragoon Delaware Water Gap The Phantom Drummer The Missing Soldier of Valley Forge
The Last Shot at Germantown A Blow in the Dark The Tory's Conversion Lord Percy's Dream Saved
by the Bible Parricide of the Wissahickon The Blacksmith at Brandywine Father and Son The Envy
of Manitou The Last Revel in Printz Hall The Two Rings Flame Scalps of the Chartiers The Consecration
of Washington Marion

TALES OF PURITAN LAND

Evangeline The Snoring of Swunksus The Lewiston Hermit The Dead Ship of Harpswell The Schoolmaster
had not reached Orrington Jack Welch's Death Light Mogg Megone The Lady Ursula Father Moody's
Black Veil The Home of Thunder The Partridge Witch The Marriage of Mount Katahdin The Moose
of Mount Kineo The Owl Tree A Chestnut Log The Watcher on White Island Chocorua Passaconaway's
Ride to Heaven The Ball Game by the Saco The White Mountains The Vision on Mount Adams The
Great Carbuncle Skinner's Cave Yet they call it Lover's Leap Salem and other Witchcraft The
Gloucester Leaguers Satan and his Burial-Place Peter Rugg, the Missing Man The Loss of Weetamoo
The Fatal Forget-me-not The Old Mill at Somerville Edward Randolph's Portrait Lady Eleanore's
Mantle Howe's Masquerade Old Esther Dudley The Loss of Jacob Hurd The Hobomak Berkshire Tories
The Revenge of Josiah Breeze The May-Pole of Merrymount The Devil and Tom Walker The Gray Champion
The Forest Smithy Wahconah Falls Knocking at the Tomb The White Deer of Onota Wizard's Glen
Balanced Rock Shonkeek-Moonkeek The Salem Alchemist Eliza Wharton Sale of the Southwicks The
Courtship of Myles Standish Mother Crewe Aunt Rachel's Curse Nix's Mate The Wild Man of Cape
Cod Newbury's Old Elm Samuel Sewall's Prophecy The Shrieking Woman Agnes Surriage Skipper Ireson's
Ride Heartbreak Hill Harry Main: The Treasure and the Cats The Wessaguscus Hanging The Unknown
Champion Goody Cole General Moulton and the Devil The Skeleton in Armor Martha's Vineyard and
Nantucket Love and Treason The Headless Skeleton of Swamptown The Crow and Cat of Hopkins Hill
The Old Stone Mill Origin of a Name Micah Rood Apples A Dinner and its Consequences The New
Haven Storm Ship The Windham Frogs The Lamb of Sacrifice Moodus Noises Haddam Enchantments
Block Island and the Palatine The Buccaneer Robert Lockwood's Fate Love and Rum

LIGHTS AND SHADOWS OF THE SOUTH

The Swim at Indian Head The Moaning Sisters A Ride for a Bride Spooks of the Hiawassee Lake
of the Dismal Swamp The Barge of Defeat Natural Bridge The Silence Broken Siren of the French
Broad The Hunter of Calawassee Revenge of the Accabee Toccoa Falls Two Lives for One A Ghostly
Avenger The Wraith Ringer of Atlanta The Swallowing Earthquake The Last Stand of the Biloxi
The Sacred Fire of Natchez Pass Christian The Under Land

THE CENTRAL STATES AND GREAT LAKES

An Averted Peril The Obstinacy of Saint Clair The Hundredth Skull The Crime of Black Swamp
The House Accursed Marquette's Man-Eater Michel de Coucy's Troubles Wallen's Ridge The Sky
Walker of Huron The Coffin of Snakes Mackinack Lake Superior Water Gods The Witch of Pictured
Rocks The Origin of White Fish The Spirit of Cloudy The Sun Fire at Sault Sainte Marie The
Snake God of Belle Isle Were-Wolves of Detroit The Escape of Francois Navarre The Old Lodger
The Nain Rouge Two Revenges Hiawatha The Indian Messiah The Vision of Rescue Devil's Lake The
Keusca Elopement Pipestone The Virgins' Feast Falls of St. Anthony Flying Shadow and Track
Maker Saved by a Lightning-Stroke The Killing of Cloudy Sky Providence Hole The Scare Cure
Twelfth Night at Cahokia The Spell of Creve Coeur Lake How the Crime was Revealed Banshee of
the Bad Lands Standing Rock The Salt Witch

ALONG THE ROCKY RANGE

Over the Divide The Phantom Train of Marshall Pass The River of Lost Souls Riders of the Desert
The Division of Two Tribes Besieged by Starvation A Yellowstone Tragedy The Broad House The
Death Waltz The Flood at Santa Fe Goddess of Salt The Coming of the Navajos The Ark on Superstition
Mountains The Pale Faced Lightning The Weird Sentinel at Squaw Peak Sacrifice of the Toltecs
Ta-Vwots Conquers the Sun The Comanche Rider Horned Toad and Giants The Spider Tower The Lost
Trail A Battle in the Air

ON THE PACIFIC SLOPE

The Voyager of the Whulge Tamanous of Tacoma The Devil and the Dalles Cascades of the Columbia
The Death of Umatilla Hunger Valley The Wrath of Manitou The Spook of Misery Hill The Queen
of Death Valley Bridal Veil Fall The Governor's Right Eye The Prisoner in American Shaft

AS TO BURIED TREASURE

Kidd's Treasure Other Buried Wealth

STORIED WATERS, CLIFFS AND MOUNTAINS

PREFACE

It is unthinkingly said and often, that America is not old enough to have developed a legendary
era, for such an era grows backward as a nation grows forward. No little of the charm of European
travel is ascribed to the glamour that history and fable have flung around old churches, castles,
and the favored haunts of tourists, and the Rhine and Hudson are frequently compared, to the
prejudice of the latter, not because its scenery lacks in loveliness or grandeur, but that
its beauty has not been humanized by love of chivalry or faerie, as that of the older stream
has been. Yet the record of our country's progress is of deep import, and as time goes on the
figures seen against the morning twilight of our history will rise to more commanding stature,
and the mists of legend will invest them with a softness or glory that shall make reverence
for them spontaneous and deep. Washington hurling the stone across the Potomac may live as
the Siegfried of some Western saga, and Franklin invoking the lightnings may be the Loki of
our mythology. The bibliography of American legends is slight, and these tales have been gathered
from sources the most diverse: records, histories, newspapers, magazines, oral narrative--in
every case reconstructed. The pursuit of them has been so long that a claim may be set forth
for some measure of completeness.

But, whatever the episodes of our four historic centuries may furnish to the poet, painter,
dramatist, or legend-building idealist of the future, it is certain that we are not devoid
of myth and folk-lore. Some characters, prosaic enough, perhaps, in daily life, have impinged
so lightly on society before and after perpetrating their one or two great deeds, that they
have already become shadowy and their achievements have acquired a color of the supernatural.
It is where myth and history combine that legend is most interesting and appeals to our fancy
or our sympathy most strongly; and it is not too early for us to begin the collation of those
quaint happenings and those spoken reports that gain in picturesqueness with each transmission.
An attempt has been made in this instance to assemble only legends, for, doubtful as some historians
profess to find them, certain occurrences, like the story of Captain Smith and Pocahontas,
and the ride of General Putnam down Breakneck Stairs, are taught as history; while as to folk-lore,
that of the Indian tribes and of the Southern negro is too copious to be recounted in this
work. It will be noted that traditions do not thrive in brick and brownstone, and that the
stories once rife in the colonial cities have almost as effectually disappeared as the architectural
landmarks of last century. The field entered by the writer is not untrodden. Hawthorne and
Irving have made paths across it, and it is hoped that others may deem its farther exploration
worthy of their efforts.

THE HUDSON AND ITS HILLS

RIP VAN WINKLE

The story of Rip Van Winkle, told by Irving, dramatized by Boucicault, acted by Jefferson,
pictured by Darley, set to music by Bristow, is the best known of American legends. Rip was
a real personage, and the Van Winkles are a considerable family at this day. An idle, good-natured,
happy-go-lucky fellow, he lived, presumably, in the village of Catskill, and began his long
sleep in 1769. His wife was a shrew, and to escape her abuse Rip often took his dog and gun
and roamed away to the Catskills, nine miles westward, where he lounged or hunted, as the humor
seized him. It was on a September evening, during a jaunt on South Mountain, that he met a
stubby, silent man, of goodly girth, his round head topped with a steeple hat, the skirts of
his belted coat and flaps of his petticoat trousers meeting at the tops of heavy boots, and
the face--ugh!--green and ghastly, with unmoving eyes that glimmered in the twilight like phosphorus.
The dwarf carried a keg, and on receiving an intimation, in a sign, that he would like Rip
to relieve him of it, that cheerful vagabond shouldered it and marched on up the mountain.

At nightfall they emerged on a little plateau where a score of men in the garb of long ago,
with faces like that of Rip's guide, and equally still and speechless, were playing bowls with
great solemnity, the balls sometimes rolling over the plateau's edge and rumbling down the
rocks with a boom like thunder. A cloaked and snowy-bearded figure, watching aloof, turned
like the others, and gazed uncomfortably at the visitor who now came blundering in among them.
Rip was at first for making off, but the sinister glare in the circle of eyes took the run
out of his legs, and he was not displeased when they signed to him to tap the keg and join
in a draught of the ripest schnapps that ever he had tasted,--and he knew the flavor of every
brand in Catskill. While these strange men grew no more genial with passing of the flagons,
Rip was pervaded by a satisfying glow; then, overcome by sleepiness and resting his head on
a stone, he stretched his tired legs out and fell to dreaming.

Morning. Sunlight and leaf shadow were dappled over the earth when he awoke, and rising stiffly
from his bed, with compunctions in his bones, he reached for his gun. The already venerable
implement was so far gone with rot and rust that it fell to pieces in his hand, and looking
down at the fragments of it, he saw that his clothes were dropping from his body in rags and
mould, while a white beard flowed over his breast. Puzzled and alarmed, shaking his head ruefully
as he recalled the carouse of the silent, he hobbled down the mountain as fast as he might
for the grip of the rheumatism on his knees and elbows, and entered his native village. What!
Was this Catskill? Was this the place that he left yesterday? Had all these houses sprung up
overnight, and these streets been pushed across the meadows in a day? The people, too: where
were his friends? The children who had romped with him, the rotund topers whom he had left
cooling their hot noses in pewter pots at the tavern door, the dogs that used to bark a welcome,
recognizing in him a kindred spirit of vagrancy: where were they?

And his wife, whose athletic arm and agile tongue had half disposed him to linger in the mountains
how happened it that she was not awaiting him at the gate? But gate there was none in the familiar
place: an unfenced yard of weeds and ruined foundation wall were there. Rip's home was gone.
The idlers jeered at his bent, lean form, his snarl of beard and hair, his disreputable dress,
his look of grieved astonishment. He stopped, instinctively, at the tavern, for he knew that
place in spite of its new sign: an officer in blue regimentals and a cocked hat replacing the
crimson George III. of his recollection, and labelled "General Washington." There was a quick
gathering of ne'er-do-weels, of tavern-haunters and gaping 'prentices, about him, and though
their faces were strange and their manners rude, he made bold to ask if they knew such and
such of his friends.

"Nick Vedder? He's dead and gone these eighteen years." "Brom Dutcher? He joined the army and
was killed at Stony Point." "Van Brummel? He, too, went to the war, and is in Congress now."

"And Rip Van Winkle?"

"Yes, he's here. That's him yonder."

And to Rip's utter confusion he saw before him a counterpart of himself, as young, lazy, ragged,
and easy-natured as he remembered himself to be, yesterday--or, was it yesterday?

"That's young Rip," continued his informer. "His father was Rip Van Winkle, too, but he went
to the mountains twenty years ago and never came back. He probably fell over a cliff, or was
carried off by Indians, or eaten by bears."

Twenty years ago! Truly, it was so. Rip had slept for twenty years without awaking. He had
left a peaceful colonial village; he returned to a bustling republican town. How he eventually
found, among the oldest inhabitants, some who admitted that they knew him; how he found a comfortable
home with his married daughter and the son who took after him so kindly; how he recovered from
the effect of the tidings that his wife had died of apoplexy, in a quarrel; how he resumed
his seat at the tavern tap and smoked long pipes and told long yarns for the rest of his days,
were matters of record up to the beginning of this century.

And a strange story Rip had to tell, for he had served as cup-bearer to the dead crew of the
Half Moon. He had quaffed a cup of Hollands with no other than Henry Hudson himself. Some say
that Hudson's spirit has made its home amid these hills, that it may look into the lovely valley
that he discovered; but others hold that every twenty years he and his men assemble for a revel
in the mountains that so charmed them when first seen swelling against the western heavens,
and the liquor they drink on this night has the bane of throwing any mortal who lips it into
a slumber whence nothing can arouse him until the day dawns when the crew shall meet again.
As you climb the east front of the mountains by the old carriage road, you pass, half-way up
the height, the stone that Rip Van Winkle slept on, and may see that it is slightly hollowed
by his form. The ghostly revellers are due in the Catskills in 1909, and let all tourists who
are among the mountains in September of that year beware of accepting liquor from strangers.

CATSKILL GNOMES

Behind the New Grand Hotel, in the Catskills, is an amphitheatre of mountain that is held to
be the place of which the Mohicans spoke when they told of people there who worked in metals,
and had bushy beards and eyes like pigs. From the smoke of their forges, in autumn, came the
haze of Indian summer; and when the moon was full, it was their custom to assemble on the edge
of a precipice above the hollow and dance and caper until the night was nigh worn away. They
brewed a liquor that had the effect of shortening the bodies and swelling the heads of all
who drank it, and when Hudson and his crew visited the mountains, the pygmies held a carouse
in his honor and invited him to drink their liquor. The crew went away, shrunken and distorted
by the magic distillation, and thus it was that Rip Van Winkle found them on the eve of his
famous sleep.

THE CATSKILL WITCH

When the Dutch gave the name of Katzbergs to the mountains west of the Hudson, by reason of
the wild-cats and panthers that ranged there, they obliterated the beautiful Indian Ontiora,
"mountains of the sky." In one tradition of the red men these hills were bones of a monster
that fed on human beings until the Great Spirit turned it into stone as it was floundering
toward the ocean to bathe. The two lakes near the summit were its eyes. These peaks were the
home of an Indian witch, who adjusted the weather for the Hudson Valley with the certainty
of a signal service bureau. It was she who let out the day and night in blessed alternation,
holding back the one when the other was at large, for fear of conflict. Old moons she cut into
stars as soon as she had hung new ones in the sky, and she was often seen perched on Round
Top and North Mountain, spinning clouds and flinging them to the winds. Woe betide the valley
residents if they showed irreverence, for then the clouds were black and heavy, and through
them she poured floods of rain and launched the lightnings, causing disastrous freshets in
the streams and blasting the wigwams of the mockers. In a frolic humor she would take the form
of a bear or deer and lead the Indian hunters anything but a merry dance, exposing them to
tire and peril, and vanishing or assuming some terrible shape when they had overtaken her.
Sometimes she would lead them to the cloves and would leap into the air with a mocking "Ho,
ho!" just as they stopped with a shudder at the brink of an abyss. Garden Rock was a spot where
she was often found, and at its foot a lake once spread. This was held in such awe that an
Indian would never wittingly pursue his quarry there; but once a hunter lost his way and emerged
from the forest at the edge of the pond. Seeing a number of gourds in crotches of the trees
he took one, but fearing the spirit he turned to leave so quickly that he stumbled and it fell.
As it broke, a spring welled from it in such volume that the unhappy man was gulfed in its
waters, swept to the edge of Kaaterskill clove and dashed on the rocks two hundred and sixty
feet below. Nor did the water ever cease to run, and in these times the stream born of the
witch's revenge is known as Catskill Creek.

THE REVENGE OF SHANDAKEN

On the rock platform where the Catskill Mountain House now stands, commanding one of the fairest
views in the world, old chief Shandaken set his wigwam,--for it is a mistake to suppose that
barbarians are indifferent to beauty,--and there his daughter, Lotowana, was sought in marriage
by his braves. She, however, kept faith to an early vow exchanged with a young chief of the
Mohawks. A suitor who was particularly troublesome was Norsereddin, proud, morose, dark-featured,
a stranger to the red man, a descendant, so he claimed, from Egyptian kings, and who lived
by himself on Kaaterskill Creek, appearing among white settlements but rarely.

On one of his visits to Catskill, a tavern-lounging Dutchman wagered him a thousand golden
crowns that he could not win Lotowana, and, stung by avarice as well as inflamed by passion,
Norsereddin laid new siege to her heart. Still the girl refused to listen, and Shandaken counselled
him to be content with the smiles of others, thereby so angering the Egyptian that he assailed
the chief and was driven from the camp with blows; but on the day of Lotowana's wedding with
the Mohawk he returned, and in a honeyed speech asked leave to give a jewel to the bride to
show that he had stifled jealousy and ill will. The girl took the handsome box he gave her
and drew the cover, when a spring flew forward, driving into her hand the poisoned tooth of
a snake that had been affixed to it. The venom was strong, and in a few minutes Lotowana lay
dead at her husband's feet.

Though the Egyptian had disappeared into the forest directly on the acceptance of his treacherous
gift, twenty braves set off in pursuit, and overtaking him on the Kalkberg, they dragged him
back to the rock where father and husband were bewailing the maid's untimely fate. A pile of
fagots was heaped within a few feet of the precipice edge, and tying their captive on them,
they applied the torch, dancing about with cries of exultation as the shrieks of the wretch
echoed from the cliffs. The dead girl was buried by the mourning tribe, while the ashes of
Norsereddin were left to be blown abroad. On the day of his revenge Shandaken left his ancient
dwelling-place, and his camp-fires never glimmered afterward on the front of Ontiora.

CONDEMNED TO THE NOOSE

Ralph Sutherland, who, early in the last century, occupied a stone house a mile from Leeds,
in the Catskills, was a man of morose and violent disposition, whose servant, a Scotch girl,
was virtually a slave, inasmuch as she was bound to work for him without pay until she had
refunded to him her passage-money to this country. Becoming weary of bondage and of the tempers
of her master, the girl ran away. The man set off in a raging chase, and she had not gone far
before Sutherland overtook her, tied her by the wrists to his horse's tail, and began the homeward
journey. Afterward, he swore that the girl stumbled against the horse's legs, so frightening
the animal that it rushed off madly, pitching him out of the saddle and dashing the servant
to death on rocks and trees; yet, knowing how ugly-tempered he could be, his neighbors were
better inclined to believe that he had driven the horse into a gallop, intending to drag the
girl for a short distance, as a punishment, and to rein up before he had done serious mischief.
On this supposition he was arrested, tried, and sentenced to die on the scaffold.

The tricks of circumstantial evidence, together with pleas advanced by influential relatives
of the prisoner, induced the court to delay sentence until the culprit should be ninety-nine
years old, but it was ordered that, while released on his own recognizance, in the interim,
he should keep a hangman's noose about his neck and show himself before the judges in Catskill
once every year, to prove that he wore his badge of infamy and kept his crime in mind. This
sentence he obeyed, and there were people living recently who claimed to remember him as he
went about with a silken cord knotted at his throat. He was always alone, he seldom spoke,
his rough, imperious manner had departed. Only when children asked him what the rope was for
were his lips seen to quiver, and then he would hurry away. After dark his house was avoided,
for gossips said that a shrieking woman passed it nightly, tied at the tail of a giant horse
with fiery eyes and smoking nostrils; that a skeleton in a winding sheet had been found there;
that a curious thing, somewhat like a woman, had been known to sit on his garden wall, with
lights shining from her finger-tips, uttering unearthly laughter; and that domestic animals
reproached the man by groaning and howling beneath his windows.

These beliefs he knew, yet he neither grieved, nor scorned, nor answered when he was told of
them. Years sped on. Every year deepened his reserve and loneliness, and some began to whisper
that he would take his own way out of the world, though others answered that men who were born
to be hanged would never be drowned; but a new republic was created; new laws were made; new
judges sat to minister them; so, on Ralph Sutherland's ninety-ninth birthday anniversary, there
were none who would accuse him or execute sentence. He lived yet another year, dying in 1801.
But was it from habit, or was it in self-punishment and remorse, that he never took off the
cord? for, when he drew his last breath, though it was in his own house, his throat was still
encircled by the hangman's rope.

BIG INDIAN

Intermarriages between white people and red ones in this country were not uncommon in the days
when our ancestors led as rude a life as the natives, and several places in the Catskills commemorate
this fact. Mount Utsayantha, for example, is named for an Indian woman whose life, with that
of her baby and her white husband, was lost there. For the white men early found friends among
these mountains. As far back as 1663 they spared Catherine Dubois and her three children, after
some rash spirits had abducted them and carried them to a place on the upper Walkill, to do
them to death; for the captives raised a Huguenot hymn and the hearts of their captors were
softened.

In Esopus Valley lived Winnisook, whose height was seven feet, and who was known among the
white settlers as "the big Indian." He loved a white girl of the neighborhood, one Gertrude
Molyneux, and had asked for her hand; but while she was willing, the objections of her family
were too strong to be overcome, and she was teased into marriage with Joseph Bundy, of her
own race, instead. She liked the Indian all the better after that, however, because Bundy proved
to be a bad fellow, and believing that she could be happier among barbarians than among a people
that approved such marriages, she eloped with Winnisook. For a long time all trace of the runaway
couple was lost, but one day the man having gone down to the plain to steal cattle, it was
alleged, was discovered by some farmers who knew him, and who gave hot chase, coming up with
him at the place now called Big Indian.

Foremost in the chase was Bundy. As he came near to the enemy of his peace he exclaimed, "I
think the best way to civilize that yellow serpent is to let daylight into his heart," and,
drawing his rifle to his shoulder, he fired. Mortally wounded, yet instinctively seeking refuge,
the giant staggered into the hollow of a pine-tree, where the farmers lost sight of him. There,
however, he was found by Gertrude, bolt upright, yet dead. The unwedded widow brought her dusky
children to the place and spent the remainder of her days near his grave. Until a few years
ago the tree was still pointed out, but a railroad company has now covered it with an embankment.

THE BAKER'S DOZEN

Baas [Boss] Volckert Jan Pietersen Van Amsterdam kept a bake-shop in Albany, and lives in history
as the man who invented New Year cakes and made gingerbread babies in the likeness of his own
fat offspring. Good churchman though he was, the bane of his life was a fear of being bewitched,
and perhaps it was to keep out evil spirits, who might make one last effort to gain the mastery
over him, ere he turned the customary leaf with the incoming year, that he had primed himself
with an extra glass of spirits on the last night of 1654. His sales had been brisk, and as
he sat in his little shop, meditating comfortably on the gains he would make when his harmless
rivals--the knikkerbakkers (bakers of marbles)--sent for their usual supply of olie-koeks and
mince-pies on the morrow, he was startled by a sharp rap, and an ugly old woman entered. "Give
me a dozen New Year's cookies!" she cried, in a shrill voice.

"Vell, den, you needn' sbeak so loud. I aind teaf, den."

"A dozen!" she screamed. "Give me a dozen. Here are only twelve."

"Vell, den, dwalf is a dozen."

"One more! I want a dozen."

"Vell, den, if you vant anodder, go to de duyvil and ged it."

Did the hag take him at his word? She left the shop, and from that time it seemed as if poor
Volckert was bewitched, indeed, for his cakes were stolen; his bread was so light that it went
up the chimney, when it was not so heavy that it fell through the oven; invisible hands plucked
bricks from that same oven and pelted him until he was blue; his wife became deaf, his children
went unkempt, and his trade went elsewhere. Thrice the old woman reappeared, and each time
was sent anew to the devil; but at last, in despair, the baker called on Saint Nicolaus to
come and advise him. His call was answered with startling quickness, for, almost while he was
making it, the venerable patron of Dutch feasts stood before him. The good soul advised the
trembling man to be more generous in his dealings with his fellows, and after a lecture on
charity he vanished, when, lo! the old woman was there in his place.

She repeated her demand for one more cake, and Volckert Jan Pietersen, etc., gave it, whereupon
she exclaimed, "The spell is broken, and from this time a dozen is thirteen!" Taking from the
counter a gingerbread effigy of Saint Nicolaus, she made the astonished Dutchman lay his hand
upon it and swear to give more liberal measure in the future. So, until thirteen new States
arose from the ruins of the colonies,--when the shrewd Yankees restored the original measure,--thirteen
made a baker's dozen.

THE DEVIL'S DANCE-CHAMBER.

Most storied of our New World rivers is the Hudson. Historic scenes have been enacted on its
shores, and Indian, Dutchman, Briton, and American have invested it with romance. It had its
source, in the red man's fancy, in a spring of eternal youth; giants and spirits dwelt in its
woods and hills, and before the river-Shatemuc, king of streams, the red men called it--had
broken through the highlands, those mountains were a pent for spirits who had rebelled against
the Manitou. After the waters had forced a passage to the sea these evil ones sought shelter
in the glens and valleys that open to right and left along its course, but in time of tempest,
when they hear Manitou riding down the ravine on wings of storm, dashing thunderbolts against
the cliffs, it is the fear that he will recapture them and force them into lightless caverns
to expiate their revolt, that sends them huddling among the rocks and makes the hills resound
with roars and howls.

At the Devil's Dance-Chamber, a slight plateau on the west bank, between Newburg and Crom Elbow,
the red men performed semi-religious rites as a preface to their hunting and fishing trips
or ventures on the war-path. They built a fire, painted themselves, and in that frenzy into
which savages are so readily lashed, and that is so like to the action of mobs in trousers,
they tumbled, leaped, danced, yelled, sang, grimaced, and gesticulated until the Manitou disclosed
himself, either as a harmless animal or a beast of prey. If he came in the former shape the
augury was favorable, but if he showed himself as a bear or panther, it was a warning of evil
that they seldom dared to disregard.

The crew of Hudson's ship, the Half Moon, having chanced on one of these orgies, were so impressed
by the fantastic spectacle that they gave the name Duyvels Dans-Kamer to the spot. Years afterwards,
when Stuyvesant ascended the river, his doughty retainers were horrified, on landing below
the Dans-Kamer, to discover hundreds of painted figures frisking there in the fire-light. A
few surmised that they were but a new generation of savages holding a powwow, but most of the
sailors fancied that the assemblage was demoniac, and that the figures were spirits of bad
Indians repeating a scalp-dance and revelling in the mysterious fire-water that they had brought
down from the river source in jars and skins. The spot was at least once profaned with blood,
for a young Dutchman and his wife, of Albany, were captured here by an angry Indian, and although
the young man succeeded in stabbing his captor to death, he was burned alive on the rock by
the friends of the Indian whose wrath he had provoked. The wife, after being kept in captivity
for a time, was ransomed.

THE CULPRIT FAY

The wood-tick's drum convokes the elves at the noon of night on Cro' Nest top, and, clambering
out of their flower-cup beds and hammocks of cobweb, they fly to the meeting, not to freak
about the grass or banquet at the mushroom table, but to hear sentence passed on the fay who,
forgetting his vestal vow, has loved an earthly maid. From his throne under a canopy of tulip
petals, borne on pillars of shell, the king commands silence, and with severe eye but softened
voice he tells the culprit that while he has scorned the royal decree he has saved himself
from the extreme penalty, of imprisonment in walnut shells and cobweb dungeons, by loving a
maid who is gentle and pure. So it shall be enough if he will go down to the Hudson and seize
a drop from the bow of mist that a sturgeon leaves when he makes his leap; and after, to kindle
his darkened flame-wood lamp at a meteor spark. The fairy bows, and without a word slowly descends
the rocky steep, for his wing is soiled and has lost its power; but once at the river, he tugs
amain at a mussel shell till he has it afloat; then, leaping in, he paddles out with a strong
grass blade till he comes to the spot where the sturgeon swims, though the watersprites plague
him and toss his boat, and the fish and the leeches bunt and drag; but, suddenly, the sturgeon
shoots from the water, and ere the arch of mist that he tracks through the air has vanished,
the sprite has caught a drop of the spray in a tiny blossom, and in this he washes clean his wings.

The water-goblins torment him no longer. They push his boat to the shore, where, alighting,
he kisses his hand, then, even as a bubble, he flies back to the mountain top, dons his acorn
helmet, his corselet of bee-hide, his shield of lady-bug shell, and grasping his lance, tipped
with wasp sting, he bestrides his fire-fly steed and off he goes like a flash. The world spreads
out and then grows small, but he flies straight on. The ice-ghosts leer from the topmost clouds,
and the mists surge round, but he shakes his lance and pipes his call, and at last he comes
to the Milky Way, where the sky-sylphs lead him to their queen, who lies couched in a palace
ceiled with stars, its dome held up by northern lights and the curtains made of the morning's
flush. Her mantle is twilight purple, tied with threads of gold from the eastern dawn, and
her face is as fair as the silver moon.

She begs the fay to stay with her and taste forever the joys of heaven, but the knightly elf
keeps down the beating of his heart, for he remembers a face on earth that is fairer than hers,
and he begs to go. With a sigh she fits him a car of cloud, with the fire-fly steed chained
on behind, and he hurries away to the northern sky whence the meteor comes, with roar and whirl,
and as it passes it bursts to flame. He lights his lamp at a glowing spark, then wheels away
to the fairy-land. His king and his brothers hail him stoutly, with song and shout, and feast
and dance, and the revel is kept till the eastern sky has a ruddy streak. Then the cock crows
shrill and the fays are gone.

POKEPSIE

The name of this town has forty-two spellings in old records, and with singular pertinacity
in ill-doing, the inhabitants have fastened on it the longest and clumsiest of all. It comes
from the Mohegan words Apo-keep-sink, meaning a safe, pleasant harbor. Harbor it might be for
canoes, but for nothing bigger, for it was only the little cove that was so called between
Call Rock and Adder Cliff,--the former indicating where settlers awaiting passage hailed the
masters of vessels from its top, and the latter taking its name from the snakes that abounded
there.

Hither came a band of Delawares with Pequot captives, among them a young chief to whom had
been offered not only life but leadership if he would renounce his tribe, receive the mark
of the turtle on his breast, and become a Delaware. On his refusal, he was bound to a tree,
and was about to undergo the torture, when a girl among the listeners sprang to his side. She,
too, was a Pequot, but the turtle totem was on her bosom, and when she begged his life, because
they had been betrothed, the captors paused to talk of it. She had chosen well the time to
interfere, for a band of Hurons was approaching, and even as the talk went on their yell was
heard in the wood. Instant measures for defence were taken, and in the fight that followed
both chief and maiden were forgotten; but though she cut the cords that bound him, they were
separated in the confusion, he disappearing, she falling captive to the Hurons, who, sated
with blood, retired from the field. In the fantastic disguise of a wizard the young Pequot
entered their camp soon after, and on being asked to try his enchantments for the cure of a
young woman, he entered her tent, showing no surprise at finding her to be the maiden of his
choice, who was suffering from nothing worse than nerves, due to the excitement of the battle.
Left alone with his patient, he disclosed his identity, and planned a way of escape that proved
effective on that very night, for, though pursued by the angry Hurons, the couple reached "safe
harbor," thence making a way to their own country in the east, where they were married.

DUNDERBERG

