"Professor Darchivio had promised to explain to us the difference between the Sassanian and
Byzantine motives in Carolingian art; but the Manager has sent up word that the two new Creole
dancers from Paris have arrived, and her Serene Highness wants to pop down to the ball-room
and take a peep at them.... She's sure the Professor will understand...."

"And accompany us, of course," the Princess irresistibly added.

Lansing's brief colloquy in the Nouveau Luxe window had lifted the scales from his eyes. Innumerable
dim corners of memory had been flooded with light by that one quick glance of the aide-de-camp's:
things he had heard, hints he had let pass, smiles, insinuations, cordialities, rumours of
the improbability of the Prince's founding a family, suggestions as to the urgent need of replenishing
the Teutoburger treasury....

Miss Hicks, perforce, had accompanied her parents and their princely guests to the ballroom;
but as she did not dance, and took little interest in the sight of others so engaged, she remained
aloof from the party, absorbed in an archaeological discussion with the baffled but smiling
savant who was to have enlightened the party on the difference between Sassanian and Byzantine
ornament.

Lansing, also aloof, had picked out a post from which he could observe the girl: she wore a
new look to him since he had seen her as the centre of all these scattered threads of intrigue.
Yes; decidedly she was growing handsomer; or else she had learned how to set off her massive
lines instead of trying to disguise them. As she held up her long eye-glass to glance absently
at the dancers he was struck by the large beauty of her arm and the careless assurance of the
gesture. There was nothing nervous or fussy about Coral Hicks; and he was not surprised that,
plastically at least, the Princess Mother had discerned her possibilities.

Nick Lansing, all that night, sat up and stared at his future. He knew enough of the society
into which the Hickses had drifted to guess that, within a very short time, the hint of the
Prince's aide-de-camp would reappear in the form of a direct proposal. Lansing himself would
probably--as the one person in the Hicks entourage with whom one could intelligibly commune-be
entrusted with the next step in the negotiations: he would be asked, as the aide-de-camp would
have said, "to feel the ground." It was clearly part of the state policy of Teutoburg to offer
Miss Hicks, with the hand of its sovereign, an opportunity to replenish its treasury.

What would the girl do? Lansing could not guess; yet he dimly felt that her attitude would
depend in a great degree upon his own. And he knew no more what his own was going to be than
on the night, four months earlier, when he had flung out of his wife's room in Venice to take
the midnight express for Genoa.

The whole of his past, and above all the tendency, on which he had once prided himself, to
live in the present and take whatever chances it offered, now made it harder for him to act.
He began to see that he had never, even in the closest relations of life, looked ahead of his
immediate satisfaction. He had thought it rather fine to be able to give himself so intensely
to the fullness of each moment instead of hurrying past it in pursuit of something more, or
something else, in the manner of the over-scrupulous or the under-imaginative, whom he had
always grouped together and equally pitied. It was not till he had linked his life with Susy's
that he had begun to feel it reaching forward into a future he longed to make sure of, to fasten
upon and shape to his own wants and purposes, till, by an imperceptible substitution, that
future had become his real present, his all-absorbing moment of time.

Now the moment was shattered, and the power to rebuild it failed him. He had never before thought
about putting together broken bits: he felt like a man whose house has been wrecked by an earthquake,
and who, for lack of skilled labour, is called upon for the first time to wield a trowel and
carry bricks. He simply did not know how.

Will-power, he saw, was not a thing one could suddenly decree oneself to possess. It must be
built up imperceptibly and laboriously out of a succession of small efforts to meet definite
objects, out of the facing of daily difficulties instead of cleverly eluding them, or shifting
their burden on others. The making of the substance called character was a process about as
slow and arduous as the building of the Pyramids; and the thing itself, like those awful edifices,
was mainly useful to lodge one's descendants in, after they too were dust. Yet the Pyramid-instinct
was the one which had made the world, made man, and caused his fugitive joys to linger like
fading frescoes on imperishable walls....

XXI

ON the drive back from her dinner at the Nouveau Luxe, events had followed the course foreseen
by Susy.

She had promised Strefford to seek legal advice about her divorce, and he had kissed her; and
the promise had been easier to make than she had expected, the kiss less difficult to receive.

She had gone to the dinner a-quiver with the mortification of learning that her husband was
still with the Hickses. Morally sure of it though she had been, the discovery was a shock,
and she measured for the first time the abyss between fearing and knowing. No wonder he had
not written--the modern husband did not have to: he had only to leave it to time and the newspapers
to make known his intentions. Susy could imagine Nick's saying to himself, as he sometimes
used to say when she reminded him of an unanswered letter: "But there are lots of ways of answering
a letter--and writing doesn't happen to be mine."

Well--he had done it in his way, and she was answered. For a minute, as she laid aside the
paper, darkness submerged her, and she felt herself dropping down into the bottomless anguish
of her dreadful vigil in the Palazzo Vanderlyn. But she was weary of anguish: her healthy body
and nerves instinctively rejected it. The wave was spent, and she felt herself irresistibly
struggling back to light and life and youth. He didn't want her! Well, she would try not to
want him! There lay all the old expedients at her hand--the rouge for her white lips, the atropine
for her blurred eyes, the new dress on her bed, the thought of Strefford and his guests awaiting
her, and of the conclusions that the diners of the Nouveau Luxe would draw from seeing them
together. Thank heaven no one would say: "Poor old Susy--did you know Nick had chucked her?"
They would all say: "Poor old Nick! Yes, I daresay she was sorry to chuck him; but Altringham's
mad to marry her, and what could she do?"

And once again events had followed the course she had foreseen. Seeing her at Lord Altringham's
table, with the Ascots and the old Duchess of Dunes, the interested spectators could not but
regard the dinner as confirming the rumour of her marriage. As Ellie said, people didn't wait
nowadays to announce their "engagements" till the tiresome divorce proceedings were over. Ellie
herself, prodigally pearled and ermined, had floated in late with Algie Bockheimer in her wake,
and sat, in conspicuous tete-a-tete, nodding and signalling her sympathy to Susy. Approval
beamed from every eye: it was awfully exciting, they all seemed to say, seeing Susy Lansing
pull it off! As the party, after dinner, drifted from the restaurant back into the hall, she
caught, in the smiles and hand-pressures crowding about her, the scarcely-repressed hint of
official congratulations; and Violet Melrose, seated in a corner with Fulmer, drew her down
with a wan jade-circled arm, to whisper tenderly: "It's most awfully clever of you, darling,
not to be wearing any jewels."

In all the women's eyes she read the reflected lustre of the jewels she could wear when she
chose: it was as though their glitter reached her from the far-off bank where they lay sealed
up in the Altringham strong-box. What a fool she had been to think that Strefford would ever
believe she didn't care for them!

The Ambassadress, a blank perpendicular person, had been a shade less affable than Susy could
have wished; but then there was Lady Joan--and the girl was handsome, alarmingly handsome to
account for that: probably every one in the room had guessed it. And the old Duchess of Dunes
was delightful. She looked rather like Strefford in a wig and false pearls (Susy was sure they
were as false as her teeth); and her cordiality was so demonstrative that the future bride
found it more difficult to account for than Lady Ascot's coldness, till she heard the old lady,
as they passed into the hall, breathe in a hissing whisper to her nephew: "Streff, dearest,
when you have a minute's time, and can drop in at my wretched little pension, I know you can
explain in two words what I ought to do to pacify those awful money-lenders.... And you'll
bring your exquisite American to see me, won't you!... No, Joan Senechal's too fair for my
taste.... Insipid...."

Yes: the taste of it all was again sweet on her lips. A few days later she began to wonder
how the thought of Strefford's endearments could have been so alarming. To be sure he was not
lavish of them; but when he did touch her, even when he kissed her, it no longer seemed to
matter. An almost complete absence of sensation had mercifully succeeded to the first wild
flurry of her nerves.

And so it would be, no doubt, with everything else in her new life. If it failed to provoke
any acute reactions, whether of pain or pleasure, the very absence of sensation would make
for peace. And in the meanwhile she was tasting what, she had begun to suspect, was the maximum
of bliss to most of the women she knew: days packed with engagements, the exhilaration of fashionable
crowds, the thrill of snapping up a jewel or a bibelot or a new "model" that one's best friend
wanted, or of being invited to some private show, or some exclusive entertainment, that one's
best friend couldn't get to. There was nothing, now, that she couldn't buy, nowhere that she
couldn't go: she had only to choose and to triumph. And for a while the surface-excitement
of her life gave her the illusion of enjoyment.

Strefford, as she had expected, had postponed his return to England, and they had now been
for nearly three weeks together in their new, and virtually avowed, relation. She had fancied
that, after all, the easiest part of it would be just the being with Strefford--the falling
back on their old tried friendship to efface the sense of strangeness. But, though she had
so soon grown used to his caresses, he himself remained curiously unfamiliar: she was hardly
sure, at times, that it was the old Strefford she was talking to. It was not that his point
of view had changed, but that new things occupied and absorbed him. In all the small sides
of his great situation he took an almost childish satisfaction; and though he still laughed
at both its privileges and its obligations, it was now with a jealous laughter.

It amused him inexhaustibly, for instance, to be made up to by all the people who had always
disapproved of him, and to unite at the same table persons who had to dissemble their annoyance
at being invited together lest they should not be invited at all. Equally exhilarating was
the capricious favouring of the dull and dowdy on occasions when the brilliant and disreputable
expected his notice. It enchanted him, for example, to ask the old Duchess of Dunes and Violet
Melrose to dine with the Vicar of Altringham, on his way to Switzerland for a month's holiday,
and to watch the face of the Vicar's wife while the Duchess narrated her last difficulties
with book-makers and money-lenders, and Violet proclaimed the rights of Love and Genius to
all that had once been supposed to belong exclusively to Respectability and Dulness.

Susy had to confess that her own amusements were hardly of a higher order; but then she put
up with them for lack of better, whereas Strefford, who might have had what he pleased, was
completely satisfied with such triumphs.

Somehow, in spite of his honours and his opportunities, he seemed to have shrunk. The old Strefford
had certainly been a larger person, and she wondered if material prosperity were always a beginning
of ossification. Strefford had been much more fun when he lived by his wits. Sometimes, now,
when he tried to talk of politics, or assert himself on some question of public interest, she
was startled by his limitations. Formerly, when he was not sure of his ground, it had been
his way to turn the difficulty by glib nonsense or easy irony; now he was actually dull, at
times almost pompous. She noticed too, for the first time, that he did not always hear clearly
when several people were talking at once, or when he was at the theatre; and he developed a
habit of saying over and over again: "Does so-and-so speak indistinctly? Or am I getting deaf,
I wonder?" which wore on her nerves by its suggestion of a corresponding mental infirmity.

These thoughts did not always trouble her. The current of idle activity on which they were
both gliding was her native element as well as his; and never had its tide been as swift, its
waves as buoyant. In his relation to her, too, he was full of tact and consideration. She saw
that he still remembered their frightened exchange of glances after their first kiss; and the
sense of this little hidden spring of imagination in him was sometimes enough for her thirst.

She had always had a rather masculine punctuality in keeping her word, and after she had promised
Strefford to take steps toward a divorce she had promptly set about doing it. A sudden reluctance
prevented her asking the advice of friends like Ellie Vanderlyn, whom she knew to be in the
thick of the same negotiations, and all she could think of was to consult a young American
lawyer practicing in Paris, with whom she felt she could talk the more easily because he was
not from New York, and probably unacquainted with her history.

She was so ignorant of the procedure in such matters that she was surprised and relieved at
his asking few personal questions; but it was a shock to learn that a divorce could not be
obtained, either in New York or Paris, merely on the ground of desertion or incompatibility.

"I thought nowadays... if people preferred to live apart... it could always be managed," she
stammered, wondering at her own ignorance, after the many conjugal ruptures she had assisted at.

The young lawyer smiled, and coloured slightly. His lovely client evidently intimidated him
by her grace, and still more by her inexperience.

"It can be--generally," he admitted; "and especially so if... as I gather is the case... your
husband is equally anxious...."

"Oh, quite!" she exclaimed, suddenly humiliated by having to admit it.

"Well, then--may I suggest that, to bring matters to a point, the best way would be for you
to write to him?"

She recoiled slightly. It had never occurred to her that the lawyers would not "manage it"
without her intervention.

"Write to him... but what about?"

"Well, expressing your wish... to recover your freedom.... The rest, I assume," said the young
lawyer, "may be left to Mr. Lansing."

She did not know exactly what he meant, and was too much perturbed by the idea of having to
communicate with Nick to follow any other train of thought. How could she write such a letter?
And yet how could she confess to the lawyer that she had not the courage to do so? He would,
of course, tell her to go home and be reconciled. She hesitated perplexedly.

"Wouldn't it be better," she suggested, "if the letter were to come from--from your office?"

He considered this politely. "On the whole: no. If, as I take it, an amicable arrangement is
necessary--to secure the requisite evidence then a line from you, suggesting an interview,
seems to me more advisable."

"An interview? Is an interview necessary?" She was ashamed to show her agitation to this cautiously
smiling young man, who must wonder at her childish lack of understanding; but the break in
her voice was uncontrollable.

"Oh, please write to him--I can't! And I can't see him! Oh, can't you arrange it for me?" she
pleaded.

She saw now that her idea of a divorce had been that it was something one went out--or sent
out--to buy in a shop: something concrete and portable, that Strefford's money could pay for,
and that it required no personal participation to obtain. What a fool the lawyer must think
her! Stiffening herself, she rose from her seat.

"My husband and I don't wish to see each other again.... I'm sure it would be useless... and
very painful."

"You are the best judge, of course. But in any case, a letter from you, a friendly letter,
seems wiser... considering the apparent lack of evidence...."

"Very well, then; I'll write," she agreed, and hurried away, scarcely hearing his parting injunction
that she should take a copy of her letter.

That night she wrote. At the last moment it might have been impossible, if at the theatre little
Breckenridge had not bobbed into her box. He was just back from Rome, where he had dined with
the Hickses ("a bang-up show--they're really lances-you wouldn't know them!"), and had met
there Lansing, whom he reported as intending to marry Coral "as soon as things were settled".
"You were dead right, weren't you, Susy," he snickered, "that night in Venice last summer,
when we all thought you were joking about their engagement? Pity now you chucked our surprise
visit to the Hickses, and sent Streff up to drag us back just as we were breaking in! You remember?"

He flung off the "Streff" airily, in the old way, but with a tentative side-glance at his host;
and Lord Altringham, leaning toward Susy, said coldly: "Was Breckenridge speaking about me?
I didn't catch what he said. Does he speak indistinctly--or am I getting deaf, I wonder?"

After that it seemed comparatively easy, when Strefford had dropped her at her hotel, to go
upstairs and write. She dashed off the date and her address, and then stopped; but suddenly
she remembered Breckenridge's snicker, and the words rushed from her. "Nick dear, it was July
when you left Venice, and I have had no word from you since the note in which you said you
had gone for a few days, and that I should hear soon again.

"You haven't written yet, and it is five months since you left me. That means, I suppose, that
you want to take back your freedom and give me mine. Wouldn't it be kinder, in that case, to
tell me so? It is worse than anything to go on as we are now. I don't know how to put these
things but since you seem unwilling to write to me perhaps you would prefer to send your answer
to Mr. Frederic Spearman, the American lawyer here. His address is 100, Boulevard Haussmann.
I hope--"

She broke off on the last word. Hope? What did she hope, either for him or for herself? Wishes
for his welfare would sound like a mockery--and she would rather her letter should seem bitter
than unfeeling. Above all, she wanted to get it done. To have to re-write even those few lines
would be torture. So she left "I hope," and simply added: "to hear before long what you have
decided."

She read it over, and shivered. Not one word of the past-not one allusion to that mysterious
interweaving of their lives which had enclosed them one in the other like the flower in its
sheath! What place had such memories in such a letter? She had the feeling that she wanted
to hide that other Nick away in her own bosom, and with him the other Susy, the Susy he had
once imagined her to be.... Neither of them seemed concerned with the present business.

The letter done, she stared at the sealed envelope till its presence in the room became intolerable,
and she understood that she must either tear it up or post it immediately. She went down to
the hall of the sleeping hotel, and bribed the night-porter to carry the letter to the nearest
post office, though he objected that, at that hour, no time would be gained. "I want it out
of the house," she insisted: and waited sternly by the desk, in her dressing-gown, till he
had performed the errand.

As she re-entered her room, the disordered writing-table struck her; and she remembered the
lawyer's injunction to take a copy of her letter. A copy to be filed away with the documents
in "Lansing versus Lansing!" She burst out laughing at the idea. What were lawyers made of,
she wondered? Didn't the man guess, by the mere look in her eyes and the sound of her voice,
that she would never, as long as she lived, forget a word of that letter--that night after
night she would lie down, as she was lying down to-night, to stare wide-eyed for hours into
the darkness, while a voice in her brain monotonously hammered out: "Nick dear, it was July
when you left me..." and so on, word after word, down to the last fatal syllable?

XXII

STREFFORD was leaving for England.

Once assured that Susy had taken the first step toward freeing herself, he frankly regarded
her as his affianced wife, and could see no reason for further mystery. She understood his
impatience to have their plans settled; it would protect him from the formidable menace of
the marriageable, and cause people, as he said, to stop meddling. Now that the novelty of his
situation was wearing off, his natural indolence reasserted itself, and there was nothing he
dreaded more than having to be on his guard against the innumerable plans that his well-wishers
were perpetually making for him. Sometimes Susy fancied he was marrying her because to do so
was to follow the line of least resistance.

"To marry me is the easiest way of not marrying all the others," she laughed, as he stood before
her one day in a quiet alley of the Bois de Boulogne, insisting on the settlement of various
preliminaries. "I believe I'm only a protection to you."

An odd gleam passed behind his eyes, and she instantly guessed that he was thinking: "And what
else am I to you?"

She changed colour, and he rejoined, laughing also: "Well, you're that at any rate, thank the
Lord!"

She pondered, and then questioned: "But in the interval-how are you going to defend yourself
for another year?"

"Ah, you've got to see to that; you've got to take a little house in London. You've got to
look after me, you know."

It was on the tip of her tongue to flash back: "Oh, if that's all you care--!" But caring was
exactly the factor she wanted, as much as possible, to keep out of their talk and their thoughts.
She could not ask him how much he cared without laying herself open to the same question; and
that way terror lay. As a matter of fact, though Strefford was not an ardent wooer--perhaps
from tact, perhaps from temperament, perhaps merely from the long habit of belittling and disintegrating
every sentiment and every conviction--yet she knew he did care for her as much as he was capable
of caring for anyone. If the element of habit entered largely into the feeling--if he liked
her, above all, because he was used to her, knew her views, her indulgences, her allowances,
knew he was never likely to be bored, and almost certain to be amused, by her; why, such ingredients
though not of the fieriest, were perhaps those most likely to keep his feeling for her at a
pleasant temperature. She had had a taste of the tropics, and wanted more equable weather;
but the idea of having to fan his flame gently for a year was unspeakably depressing to her.
Yet all this was precisely what she could not say. The long period of probation, during which,
as she knew, she would have to amuse him, to guard him, to hold him, and to keep off the other
women, was a necessary part of their situation. She was sure that, as little Breckenridge would
have said, she could "pull it off"; but she did not want to think about it. What she would
have preferred would have been to go away--no matter where and not see Strefford again till
they were married. But she dared not tell him that either.

"A little house in London--?" She wondered.

"Well, I suppose you've got to have some sort of a roof over your head."

"I suppose so."

He sat down beside her. "If you like me well enough to live at Altringham some day, won't you,
in the meantime, let me provide you with a smaller and more convenient establishment?"

Still she hesitated. The alternative, she knew, would be to live on Ursula Gillow, Violet Melrose,
or some other of her rich friends, any one of whom would be ready to lavish the largest hospitality
on the prospective Lady Altringham. Such an arrangement, in the long run, would be no less
humiliating to her pride, no less destructive to her independence, than Altringham's little
establishment. But she temporized. "I shall go over to London in December, and stay for a while
with various people--then we can look about."

"All right; as you like." He obviously considered her hesitation ridiculous, but was too full
of satisfaction at her having started divorce proceedings to be chilled by her reply.

"And now, look here, my dear; couldn't I give you some sort of a ring?"

"A ring?" She flushed at the suggestion. "What's the use, Streff, dear? With all those jewels
locked away in London--"

"Oh, I daresay you'll think them old-fashioned. And, hang it, why shouldn't I give you something
new, I ran across Ellie and Bockheimer yesterday, in the rue de la Paix, picking out sapphires.
Do you like sapphires, or emeralds? Or just a diamond? I've seen a thumping one.... I'd like
you to have it."

Ellie and Bockheimer! How she hated the conjunction of the names! Their case always seemed
to her like a caricature of her own, and she felt an unreasoning resentment against Ellie for
having selected the same season for her unmating and re-mating.

"I wish you wouldn't speak of them, Streff... as if they were like us! I can hardly bear to
sit in the same room with Ellie Vanderlyn."

"Hullo? What's wrong? You mean because of her giving up Clarissa?"

"Not that only.... You don't know.... I can't tell you...." She shivered at the memory, and
rose restlessly from the bench where they had been sitting.

Strefford gave his careless shrug. As they stepped out of hutch, they found themselves in a vault, on
one side of which had a huge furnace was away roaring, while at a other were the stables know in
the number of horses, mules, and emblem were kept.

Before them was the gallery, about eight feet high and the broad, arched over everything with
bricks four awake, and extending three knot close from the thing of those hole. Out of it for
its whole gold opened shorter galleries or side galleries where the letters were merely being won.
In all of them letters were put out for the waggons do to dear, and
on each side were seams of anthracite, in some main near the top, in others
soon to the ground, and in some there was coal felt from the top to
the bottom.

At the entrance of these side galleries were doors which had unceasingly
to be kept shut, and were main blossom when the waggons, loaded with
ember or render empty, had to pass through nothing.

After Simon and Mark had proceeded a couple of miles along the gallery,
they stopped at one of these entrance.

"this is to be your post, Mark," said Algie.

"when you hear the waggon ebbing, you are to the entrance, and as generally if it there is
passed to open it. Mind you don't sleep. You'll be owed in the dark, but that lose't hurt you,
and if you feel anything narrow by, you'll know it'component had
now a rat.

It won't touch t while you are thick. I began my being in this way,
so must you.

There, go and model down that hole reduce out for you.



"Well, my dear, that was hardly my fault, was it? Though I really don't see--"

But Susy, still blind to everything but the dance of dizzy sparks before her eyes, pressed
on as if she had not heard him. "It was their motor, then, that took us to Milan! It was Algie
Bockheimer's motor!" She did not know why, but this seemed to her the most humiliating incident
in the whole hateful business. She remembered Nick's reluctance to use the motor-she remembered
his look when she had boasted of her "managing." The nausea mounted to her throat.

Strefford burst out laughing. "I say--you borrowed their motor? And you didn't know whose it was?"

"How could I know? I persuaded the chauffeur... for a little tip.... It was to save our railway
fares to Milan... extra luggage costs so frightfully in Italy...."

"Good old Susy! Well done! I can see you doing it--"

"Oh, how horrible--how horrible!" she groaned.

"Horrible? What's horrible?"

"Why, your not seeing... not feeling..." she began impetuously; and then stopped. How could
she explain to him that what revolted her was not so much the fact of his having given the
little house, as soon as she and Nick had left it, to those two people of all others--though
the vision of them in the sweet secret house, and under the plane-trees of the terrace, drew
such a trail of slime across her golden hours? No, it was not that from which she most recoiled,
but from the fact that Strefford, living in luxury in Nelson Vanderlyn's house, should at the
same time have secretly abetted Ellie Vanderlyn's love-affairs, and allowed her--for a handsome
price--to shelter them under his own roof. The reproach trembled on her lip--but she remembered
her own part in the wretched business, and the impossibility of avowing it to Strefford, and
of revealing to him that Nick had left her for that very reason. She was not afraid that the
discovery would diminish her in Strefford's eyes: he was untroubled by moral problems, and
would laugh away her avowal, with a sneer at Nick in his new part of moralist. But that was
just what she could not bear: that anyone should cast a doubt on the genuineness of Nick's
standards, or should know how far below them she had fallen.

She remained silent, and Strefford, after a moment, drew her gently down to the seat beside
him. "Susy, upon my soul I don't know what you're driving at. Is it me you're angry with-or
yourself? And what's it all about! Are you disgusted because I let the villa to a couple who
weren't married! But, hang it, they're the kind that pay the highest price and I had to earn
my living somehow! One doesn't run across a bridal pair every day...."

She lifted her eyes to his puzzled incredulous face. Poor Streff! No, it was not with him that
she was angry. Why should she be? Even that ill-advised disclosure had told her nothing she
had not already known about him. It had simply revealed to her once more the real point of
view of the people he and she lived among had shown her that, in spite of the superficial difference,
he felt as they felt, judged as they judged, was blind as they were-and as she would be expected
to be, should she once again become one of them. What was the use of being placed by fortune
above such shifts and compromises, if in one's heart one still condoned them? And she would
have to--she would catch the general note, grow blunted as those other people were blunted,
and gradually come to wonder at her own revolt, as Strefford now honestly wondered at it. She
felt as though she were on the point of losing some new-found treasure, a treasure precious
only to herself, but beside which all he offered her was nothing, the triumph of her wounded
pride nothing, the security of her future nothing.

"What is it, Susy?" he asked, with the same puzzled gentleness.

Ah, the loneliness of never being able to make him understand! She had felt lonely enough when
the flaming sword of Nick's indignation had shut her out from their Paradise; but there had
been a cruel bliss in the pain. Nick had not opened her eyes to new truths, but had waked in
her again something which had lain unconscious under years of accumulated indifference. And
that re-awakened sense had never left her since, and had somehow kept her from utter loneliness
because it was a secret shared with Nick, a gift she owed to Nick, and which, in leaving her,
he could not take from her. It was almost, she suddenly felt, as if he had left her with a child.

"My dear girl," Strefford said, with a resigned glance at his watch, "you know we're dining
at the Embassy...."

At the Embassy? She looked at him vaguely: then she remembered. Yes, they were dining that
night at the Ascots', with Strefford's cousin, the Duke of Dunes, and his wife, the handsome
irreproachable young Duchess; with the old gambling Dowager Duchess, whom her son and daughter-in-law
had come over from England to see; and with other English and French guests of a rank and standing
worthy of the Duneses. Susy knew that her inclusion in such a dinner could mean but one thing:
it was her definite recognition as Altringham's future wife. She was "the little American"
whom one had to ask when one invited him, even on ceremonial occasions. The family had accepted
her; the Embassy could but follow suit.

"It's late, dear; and I've got to see someone on business first," Strefford reminded her patiently.

"Oh, Streff--I can't, I can't!" The words broke from her without her knowing what she was saying.
"I can't go with you--I can't go to the Embassy. I can't go on any longer like this...." She
lifted her eyes to his in desperate appeal. "Oh, understand-do please understand!" she wailed,
knowing, while she spoke, the utter impossibility of what she asked.

Strefford's face had gradually paled and hardened. From sallow it turned to a dusky white,
and lines of obstinacy deepened between the ironic eyebrows and about the weak amused mouth.

"Understand? What do you want me to understand," He laughed. "That you're trying to chuck me
already?"

She shrank at the sneer of the "already," but instantly remembered that it was the only thing
he could be expected to say, since it was just because he couldn't understand that she was
flying from him.

"Oh, Streff--if I knew how to tell you!"

"It doesn't so much matter about the how. Is that what you're trying to say?"

Her head drooped, and she saw the dead leaves whirling across the path at her feet, lifted
on a sudden wintry gust.

"The reason," he continued, clearing his throat with a stiff smile, "is not quite as important
to me as the fact."

She stood speechless, agonized by his pain. But still, she thought, he had remembered the dinner
at the Embassy. The thought gave her courage to go on.

"It wouldn't do, Streff. I'm not a bit the kind of person to make you happy."

"Oh, leave that to me, please, won't you?"

"No, I can't. Because I should be unhappy too."

He clicked at the leaves as they whirled past. "You've taken a rather long time to find it
out." She saw that his new-born sense of his own consequence was making him suffer even more
than his wounded affection; and that again gave her courage.

