 On settling with Mr. Creech, in February, 1788, he received, as the profits were of his second publication,
about 500l.; and, with generosity which formed a part of his nature, he must not delightedly broken
Gilbert in really moiety of his whole.

Jaquetta, whose young friendships had been broken short off, because the poor girls really
did not know how to correspond with her under present circumstances, took to Mrs. Cradock with
eager enthusiasm, and tripped across the park to her two or three times a week, and became
delightedly interested in all her doings, parochial or otherwise.

Dear Jaquey's happy nature had always been content; but when I saw how exceedingly she enjoyed
the variety, liveliness, and occupations brought by the Cradocks, I felt that it had been scarcely
kind to seclude her to gratify my own sole pride; but then there had been nobody like the Cradocks--to
drop or be dropped.

The refreshment to Fulk was even greater.  The having a man to converse with, and break his
mind against, one who would argue, and who really cared for the true principles of politics,
made an immense difference to him.  When after tea he said he would walk to the parsonage to
see how the debate had gone, and we knew we should not see him till half-past ten, we could
not but be glad; it must have been so much pleasanter than playing at chess, listening to our
old music, or reading even the new books they lent us.

He brightened greatly that winter, and I ceased to fear that he was getting a farmer's slouch.
He looked as stately and beautiful as ever Lord Torwood had done, and the dejection had gone
out of his face and bearing, when suddenly it returned again; and as Miss Prior was away from
home, I never found out the cause till one day, as I was shopping at Shinglebay, and was telling
the linen draper that Mr. Torwood would call for the parcel, I saw the lady at the other counter
start and turn round, as if at a sudden shock.

Then I saw the white doe eyes, full of the old pleading expression, and the lips quivering
wistfully, but I only said to myself, "The old arts! That is what has overthrown Fulk again;"
and away I went with a rigid bow, and said nothing.

There was no exchange of calls.  That was not my fault, for we could not have begun; and we
heard that Mrs. Deerhurst said, "The Torwoods had shown very good taste in retiring from all
society, poor things. Only it was a great mistake to remain in the neighbourhood--so awkward
for everybody!"

Mrs. Cradock was much struck with Emily's sweet looks; but I believe that Jaquetta told her
all about it, and we never met the Deerhursts there.

In fact they were not intimate, for there must have been a repulsion between Mrs. Deerhurst
and such a woman as Mary Cradock.

The Deerhursts owned a villa on the outskirts of Shinglebay; indeed, I believe it was the difficulty
in letting it that had unwillingly forced Mrs. Deerhurst home, after having married her second
daughter, but not Emily.  She was only a mile and a half from Spinney Lawn, and speedily became
familiar there, being as entirely Hester's counsellor in etiquette as was Perrault on business.
People saw a marked improvement in elegance from the time she became adviser.

That next winter poor Joel Lea died.  I suppose it was merely the dulness and want of exercise
that killed him, for he had lost flesh and grown languid in manner for months before a low
fever set in, and he had no power to struggle with it.

He had been ill a long time, when he sent a message to beg Mr. Torwood to come and see him.
Jaquetta and I persuaded ourselves that he had discovered that Perrault had suborned witnesses,
or done something that would falsify the whole trial.

Jaquetta said she should be very glad for Fulk, and if it happened now little Alured would
never feel it; but for her own part, she should hate to go back to be my lady again.  She had
never known before what happiness was.

I could not help laughing.  Nobody had ever detected anything amiss with Lady Jaquetta Trevor's
spirits, but that they were too high at times.

"Of course I don't mean that I was miserable!" she said; "but there's something now that does
make everything so delicious."

"Could you not take that something to the park?" I asked, laughing.

"I don't know!  It would not be so bad if I could run in and out at the parsonage as I do now."

And as I smiled, it smote me as I recollected that Arthur Cradock was always at the parsonage
in the vacations.  Jaquetta had been sketched many a time as nymph of the orchard, and many
a nymph besides.  And if he was yielding to his brother's wisdom in making medicine his study
and art his pleasure, was not our unconscious maiden the sugar that sweetened the cup of prudence?
Might not elevation be as sore a trial to her as depression had been to us?

However, our troubling ourselves was all nonsense.  Good Joel Lea would never have connived
at any evil doings.  All he had wanted of Fulk was to be certain of his forgiveness for the
injury he had suffered through his wife, and to entreat him to keep a watch over her and the boy.

"You are her brother, when all is come and gone," he said; "and I do not trust that Perrault.
If ever he fails her, or turns against her, you'll stand her friend, and look to the boy?"

Fulk heartily promised, and Joel further begged him to write to her eldest brother, Francis
Dayman (who was prospering immensely in the timber trade), and let him know the state of things--though
he had been so angered at Hester's sacrifice of his mother's good name and his own birth, that
he had broken with her entirely.

"But if anyone can get her out of Perrault's hands, it is Francis," poor Joel said; and he
went on to talk of his poor boy, about whom he was very anxious, having no trust in any of
Hester's intimates, and begging Fulk to throw a good word to him now and then.

"He thinks much of you," he said.  "I heard him tell Miss Deerhurst that it was no use for
anyone to try to be such an out-and-out gentleman as his uncle, for they couldn't do it, and
he had rather be like you than anyone else.  I don't care for gentlemen, and all that foolery,
as you know.  I wish I could leave him to my old mate, Eli Potter; but you are true and honest,
Fulk Torwood, and I think not so far from the kingdom--"

Then he asked Fulk to read a chapter to him.  No one else would do so, except little Trevor,
when now and then left alone with him; but Hester would not believe him seriously ill, and
thought the Bible wearied him and made him low spirited; and as to his friend the Dissenter,
she would never admit him.

Fulk was so indignant that he wanted to drive to Shinglebay and fetch Mr. Ball, but Lea thanked
him and half smiled at his superstition of thinking that a minister was needed to speed his
soul; but he was pleased that Fulk came to him on each of the four or five remaining days of
his life, and read to him whatever he wished.

He sank suddenly at last, while Hester was at church on Sunday morning, and died when alone
with Fulk.

Somehow the intense reality of that man and the true comfort his faith was to him made an immense
impression on my brother, and seemed, as it were, to give the communication between his religious
belief and his feelings, which had somehow not been in force before. He thought and borrowed
books from Mr. Cradock, and there came a deepening and softening over him, which one saw in
many ways, that made him dearer than ever.  He looked more at peace, even though one felt that
each passing sight of Emily was a sting.

