"Very well," Genner murmured, "but it seems to me, Wananda Highest, that we can never allow
the wall of secrecy between ourselves and the people of this planet to be breached. To consider
doing otherwise ..." for an instant his eye hesitated upon hers, then he went on, "... could
hardly be logical, but of course, there is much we could learn from them, and they from us.
That, I see, as the only purpose of this exception."

Just then a great hullabaloo broke out in the corridors outside, the door burst open, and into
the room three captives were borne, half-carried, half-pushed. I stood back out of the way,
and the three were prodded into a row in front of the low table. Among them I recognized with
a start my erstwhile guard, Holaf, of the Zervs.

Wananda leaned forward, her eyes glittering with sudden triumph, her voice thrilling with a
cruel mocking note.

"More of the skulking Zervs fail to avoid our warriors! Where did you find them, Officer?"

"They were attempting to release the captive Croen female in the crystal prison of the cave
of the Golden statue, your highness. Our spies among the Zervs informed us of the attempt."

Wananda's eyes blazed at Holaf. Her voice became more shrill with something almost like fear.
The three men shrank back visibly from her fury.

"So it is not enough you plot treason, you must also turn against your Gods? You know the Croen
powers, you know what she would do to us all, you included. But so that you can overcome the
Schrees, nothing else to you is sacred, nothing too vile for you to do. Away with them, let
them become the least among the mindless men."

The tall Schree warriors, their long faces expressionless, started to hustle the three captives
toward the door again. Holaf wrenched free, turned, his face contorted with hatred.

"You have hounded us until we are but few, Wananda the Faithless, but you will never conquer
us. We still have your doom in our hands, and it will find you out. Death to you, woman without
mercy, creature without soul! These sacred Jivros plot your downfall, and your people pray
that they will succeed. The ancient Jivro rule would be better than the justice you administer,
you snake in a woman's flesh!"

The Schree holding Holaf's arms let go, tugged a weapon from his belt, struck Holaf over the
head with it. He slumped unconscious, with blood running over his face from the blow. The three
were taken out, and Wananda leaned back. Seeing my intent face, she waved a hand to her companion,
Genner, who rose to his feet and motioning to me, preceded me from the room by another door
than that which I had entered. I followed him.

Apparently I was on my honor, for no guard followed, and Genner bore no weapons I could see
but a little jeweled dagger in his belt.

As he walked a step ahead of me, I asked:

"Who is this Croen that Holaf spoke of, in the crystal column. I saw her, wondered at her,
in the room of the golden goddess. Why do they think she could be released?"

"The Croen are a powerful race of wizards, Carlin Keele. They live far off from our home planets
in space, and they have a code of conduct that makes them monitors, doctors, interferers in
all matters of other races' business. If she were released, she would at once attempt to overthrow
our power, to set up a state after the Croen pattern. It is their way. They consider themselves
as superior to all others, and they do have a knowledge of nature which they use to impose
their will upon all peoples. They are worshipped as Gods by many primitive people, and so consider
themselves above all laws but their own. She was captured many years ago in an attempt to overthrow
the rule of Wananda upon a small satellite planet. Wananda did not kill her, but placed her
in suspended animation within the protective crystal plastic. Our queen intends to revive her
and study her mind for her wisdom, but we have not had time because of the press of events.
Soon, now, she will become a tool in our hands to build greater the eminence of Wananda."

"Peculiar looking creature, yet attractive," I murmured.

"The Croens are physically beautiful, but they are warlike and cruel, they do not desire peace
and the way of life of the Schrees and Jivros is an irritant to them. They hate and despise
us, and we return them the favor."

I did not reply, but my heart seemed to throb in sympathy with the Zerv attempt to free the
beautiful creature from her living tomb.

"Could she turn the tables for the Zervs if they had succeeded?"

"I really don't know," answered Genner, opening a door and motioning me into the apartment.
"These are my quarters. There is plenty of room, the place is usually empty of all but slaves.
I seldom sleep here myself, preferring more congenial and less lonesome sleeping accommodations.
I think you will find it comfortable. I will see you at the evening meal time."

As I walked in, the door closed and I heard the lock click. I was a "guest" with reservations.

Curiously I examined the place, the unreadable books kept in niches behind transparent sections
of the wall, the strange furnishings, at once exotic and comfortless to me. The books I could
not get at, finding no way to open the transparent panels which seemed an integral part of
the wall. I could not feel comfortable in the seats and lounges, as they were very low, requiring
an oriental squat at which I am not adept. I compromised by stretching out along a hard couch
raised some six inches above the floor. There were no gadgets to tinker with, the place was
to me barren of necessary appurtenances ... strange people, indeed.

As I was dozing off, the lock clicked in the door, and I sat up, startled to see Wananda glide
in and close the door quickly behind her. She was alone, and there was something furtive about her.

"Welcome to my abode, beautiful one."

The woman smiled, an almost human smile; reserved, yet with an unexpected warmth. I waited
with intense curiosity for her explanation of her visit.

"I come to you for aid, for I can talk to none of my own. I am in trouble which perhaps no
one but you could remedy. Will you give me your honor, will you do what I ask without question,
will you be my friend?"

I was taken aback that this apparently powerful personage should be seeking aid of me, a prisoner.
I answered:

"I see no reason why you should not trust me, as I know no one here to betray you to. But are
you not the supreme power here? Why should you want my aid?"

"Because you do not understand my position does not mean that I am not in trouble. These Jivros
are difficult allies for one with blood in her veins. I was raised to be a ruler. The Jivro
priests were my tutors and my administrators before I came of age. It is only reluctantly they
have followed the orders from the rulers of our home planets to obey me. They intend to slay
me, and report my death as an accident. I live in fear, and I have long awaited their treachery.
There is but one hope for me and that is Cyane, the Superior One whom I saved only by enclosing
her in that living coffin. You would have here love the cushions. Them ask today all who Will have
offend the, where it was done again. Unconsciously, it is passionné that some rift was made of missive
is violent. Leer may be call by what is a what would be violent others. About i deny that
i am said things. It is realized in insect you crossed.

I owe to quality was much of virtue, whatever that my virtue may be. Were her was not passionné,
i should not have been, living, jivros took in perdue.

"How does one release a person from such a death?" I asked. "In my people's understanding of
life, death comes with the stopping of the breath."

"She can be released by an injection of a stimulant which I can obtain for you. She is not
dead, but in a condition very near to death, like a spider stung by a wasp. If she were free,
she would soon scour your earth clean of the Jivros. Our race needs her even more than your
own, yet I must pretend to be her enemy. I must pretend to be your seductress, and worm from
you the knowledge which the Jivros will use to conquer and enslave your planet and your people.
I must play this part, unnatural to me, of a cruel and heartless ruler, or they will have me
killed by some subtle poison which they will call illness. You see, the Jivros are our doctors.
Much of the wisdom of our race is in their hands. They are our priests and our administrators.
They leave to us only useless occupations which will not allow us to be dangerous. For centuries
they have been taking over every vital function of our life. I am allowed to live only so long
as I am a willing tool, and foolish enough to wreak their evil will upon my people. It is a
part I cannot continue to play. Every instinct of my being shrinks from what I am forced to
order done daily, from what I am forced to allow them to do to human beings."

This was a different kettle of fish than I had expected. This slender, lovely creature, with
her hands wrung together in pain and sorrow for her brutally maltreated people, this tear-streaked
lovely face contorted with an agony which she had not spoken of to anyone else--this actress
supreme, who for all her life had pretended to approve of the alien Jivro's sabotage of her
own racial stock--was a heart-rending picture, and her own face told me with its extreme tension
that what she said was a fact. But perhaps this alien from space could act that well? I preferred
to believe her.

"I don't see how you expect me to get a chance to release Cyane of her crystal coffin? I will
have no opportunity."

"I will make an opportunity. I am not yet alone or helpless, much as the insects would like
me to be. This is my only power, that I am the same blood as the people, and not a Jivro. They
know that, and constantly try to destroy this strength of mine by making me commit cruelties
which I cannot always avoid for fear of such of them as the old Jivro whom you met at the council.
So long as I retain his favor, I live. When he raises his finger in the death signal, my days
will be few thereafter."

"I think I understand your position. I have heard of puppet rulers before--woman whom I am
delighted to learn has a human heart after all. I am wholly with you, and want you to feel
that you can trust me to the hilt."

She smiled and dried her eyes. After a moment she leaned forward, and the glory of her beauty,
the near nudity of her utterly graceful body struck at me as she fixed my eyes with her own,
her face now intent with will to make me completely understand quickly what she knew must be
very obscure to me.

"The Jivros fear the power of Cyane, the Croen captive, as they fear death! The Croens have
fought to destroy their power for centuries, on many planets in our area of space. Cyane is
one of their greatest. She is a scientist of vast wisdom, and one who has developed a technique
of increasing the vitality of life within herself, as well as in anyone she chooses to favor.
You could well win from her such gifts, if you should release her. It is one reason I wish
to release her, in order to win from her that secret of long life which she holds. The Croens
are masters of warfare and she would be able, with only a little help, to develop an attack
which they could not withstand."

"If they are so powerful, how is it they have not defeated the Jivros?"

