Mr. Dowden's mirth overcame him for a moment; when he had mastered it, he continued: "Simpledoria--now
where do you suppose he got that name?--well, anyway, Simpledoria is supposed to be Hamilton
Swift, Junior's St. Bernard dog. Beasley had to BATHE him the other day, he told me! And Bill
Hammersley is supposed to be a boy of Hamilton Swift, Junior's own age, but very big and strong;
he has rosy cheeks, and he can do more in athletics than a whole college track-team. That's
the reason he outjumped Dave so far, you see."

V

Miss Apperthwaite was at home the following Saturday. I found her in the library with Les Miserables
on her knee when I came down from my room a little before lunch-time; and she looked up and
gave me a smile that made me feel sorry for any one she had ceased to smile upon.

"I wanted to tell you," I said, with a little awkwardness but plenty of truth, "I've found
out that I'm an awful fool."

"But that's something," she returned, encouragingly--"at least the beginning of wisdom."

"I mean about Mr. Beasley--the mystery I was absurd enough to find in 'Simpledoria.' I want
to tell you--"

"Oh, I know," she said; and although she laughed with an effect of carelessness, that look
which I had thought "far away" returned to her eyes as she spoke. There was a certain inscrutability
about Miss Apperthwaite sometimes, it should be added, as if she did not like to be too easily
read. "I've heard all about it. Mr. Beasley's been appointed trustee or something for poor
Hamilton Swift's son, a pitiful little invalid boy who invents all sorts of characters. The
old darky from over there told our cook about Bill Hammersley and Simpledoria. So, you see,
I understand."

"I'm glad you do," I said.

A little hardness--one might even have thought it bitterness--became apparent in her expression.
"And I'm glad there's SOMEbody in that house, at last, with a little imagination!"

"From everything I have heard," I returned, summoning sufficient boldness, "it would be difficult
to say which has more--Mr. Beasley or the child."

Her glance fell from mine at this, but not quickly enough to conceal a sudden, half-startled
look of trouble (I can think of no other way to express it) that leaped into it; and she rose,
for the lunch-bell was ringing.

"I'm just finishing the death of Jean Valjean, you know, in Les Miserables," she said, as we
moved to the door. "I'm always afraid I'll cry over that. I try not to, because it makes my
eyes red."

And, in truth, there was a vague rumor of tears about her eyes--not as if she had shed them,
but more as if she were going to--though I had not noticed it when I came in.

... That afternoon, when I reached the "Despatch" office, I was commissioned to obtain certain
political information from the Honorable David Beasley, an assignment I accepted with eagerness,
notwithstanding the commiseration it brought me from one or two of my fellows in the reporter's
room. "You won't get anything out of HIM!" they said. And they were true prophets.

I found him looking over some documents in his office; a reflective, unlighted cigar in the
corner of his mouth; his chair tilted back and his feet on a window-sill. He nodded, upon my
statement of the affair that brought me, and, without shifting his position, gave me a look
of slow but wholly friendly scrutiny over his shoulder, and bade me sit down. I began at once
to put the questions I was told to ask him--interrogations (he seemed to believe) satisfactorily
answered by slowly and ruminatively stroking the left side of his chin with two long fingers
of his right hand, the while he smiled in genial contemplation of a tarred roof beyond the
window. Now and then he would give me a mild and drawling word or two, not brilliantly illuminative,
it may be remarked. "Well--about that--" he began once, and came immediately to a full stop.

"Yes?" I said, hopefully, my pencil poised.

"About that--I guess--"

"Yes, Mr. Beasley?" I encouraged him, for he seemed to have dried up permanently.

"Well, sir--I guess--Hadn't you better see some one else about THAT?"

This with the air of a man who would be but too fluent and copious upon any subject in the
world except the one particular point.

I never met anybody else who looked so pleasantly communicative and managed to say so little.
In fact, he didn't say anything at all; and I guessed that this faculty was not without its
value in his political career, disastrous as it had proved to his private happiness. His habit
of silence, moreover, was not cultivated: you could see that "the secret of it" was just that
he was BORN quiet.

My note-book remained noteless, and finally, at some odd evasion of his, accomplished by a
monosyllable, I laughed outright--and he did, too! He joined cachinnations with me heartily,
and with a twinkling quizzicalness that somehow gave me the idea that he might be thinking
(rather apologetically) to himself: "Yes, sir, that old Beasley man is certainly a mighty funny
critter!"

When I went away, a few moments later, and left him still intermittently chuckling, the impression
remained with me that he had had some such deprecatory and surreptitious thought.

Two or three days after that, as I started down-town from Mrs. Apperthwaite's, Beasley came
out of his gate, bound in the same direction. He gave me a look of gay recognition and offered
his hand, saying, "WELL! Up in THIS neighborhood!" as if that were a matter of considerable
astonishment.

I mentioned that I was a neighbor, and we walked on together. I don't think he spoke again,
except for a "Well, sir!" or two of genial surprise at something I said, and, now and then,
"You don't tell me!" which he had a most eloquent way of exclaiming; but he listened visibly
to my own talk, and laughed at everything that I meant for funny.

I never knew anybody who gave one a greater responsiveness; he seemed to be WITH you every
instant; and HOW he made you feel it was the true mystery of Beasley, this silent man who never
talked, except (as my cousin said) to children.

It happened that I thus met him, as we were both starting down-town, and walked on with him,
several days in succession; in a word, it became a habit. Then, one afternoon, as I turned
to leave him at the "Despatch" office, he asked me if I wouldn't drop in at his house the next
day for a cigar before we started. I did; and he asked me if I wouldn't come again the day
after that. So this became a habit, too.

A fortnight elapsed before I met Hamilton Swift, Junior; for he, poor little father of dream-children,
could be no spectator of track events upon the lawn, but lay in his bed up-stairs. However,
he grew better at last, and my presentation took place.

We had just finished our cigars in Beasley's airy, old-fashioned "sitting-room," and were rising
to go, when there came the faint creaking of small wheels from the hall. Beasley turned to
me with the apologetic and monosyllabic chuckle that was distinctly his alone.

"I've got a little chap here--" he said; then went to the door. "Bob!"

The old darky appeared in the doorway pushing a little wagon like a reclining-chair on wheels,
and in it sat Hamilton Swift, Junior.

My first impression of him was that he was all eyes: I couldn't look at anything else for a
time, and was hardly conscious of the rest of that weazened, peaked little face and the under-sized
wisp of a body with its pathetic adjuncts of metal and leather. I think they were the brightest
eyes I ever saw--as keen and intelligent as a wicked old woman's, withal as trustful and cheery
as the eyes of a setter pup.

"HOO-ray!"

Thus the Honorable Mr. Beasley, waving a handkerchief thrice around his head and thrice cheering.

And the child, in that cricket's voice of his, replied:

"Br-r-ra-vo!"

This was the form of salutation familiarly in use between them. Beasley followed it by inquiring,
"Who's with us to-day?"

"I'm MISTER Swift," chirped the little fellow. "MIS-TER Swift, if you please, Cousin David
Beasley."

Beasley executed a formal bow. "There is a gentleman here who'd like to meet you." And he presented
me with some grave phrases commendatory of my general character, addressing the child as "Mister
Swift"; whereupon Mister Swift gave me a ghostly little hand and professed himself glad to meet me.

"And besides me," he added, to Beasley, "there's Bill Hammersley and Mr. Corley Linbridge."

A faint perplexity manifested itself upon Beasley's face at this, a shadow which cleared at
once when I asked if I might not be permitted to meet these personages, remarking that I had
heard from Dowden of Bill Hammersley, though until now a stranger to the fame of Mr. Corley
Linbridge.

Beasley performed the ceremony with intentional elegance, while the boy's great eyes swept
glowingly from his cousin's face to mine and back again. I bowed and shook hands with the air,
once to my left and once to my right. "And Simpledoria!" cried Mister Swift. "You'll enjoy
Simpledoria."

"Above all things," I said. "Can he shake hands? Some dogs can."

"Watch him!"

Mister Swift lifted a commanding finger. "Simpledoria, shake hands!"

I knelt beside the wagon and shook an imaginary big paw. At this Mister Swift again shook hands
with me and allowed me to perceive, in his luminous regard, a solemn commendation and approval.

In this wise was my initiation into the beautiful old house and the cordiality of its inmates
completed; and I became a familiar of David Beasley and his ward, with the privilege to go
and come as I pleased; there was always gay and friendly welcome. I always came for the cigar
after lunch, sometimes for lunch itself; sometimes I dined there instead of down-town; and
now and then when it happened that an errand or assignment took me that way in the afternoon,
I would run in and "visit" awhile with Hamilton Swift, Junior, and his circle of friends.

There were days, of course, when his attacks were upon him, and only Beasley and the doctor
and old Bob saw him; I do not know what the boy's mental condition was at such times; but when
he was better, and could be wheeled about the house and again receive callers, he displayed
an almost dismaying activity of mind--it was active enough, certainly, to keep far ahead of
my own. And he was masterful: still, Beasley and Dowden and I were never directly chidden for
insubordination, though made to wince painfully by the look of troubled surprise that met us
when we were not quick enough to catch his meaning.

The order of the day with him always began with the "HOO-ray" and "BR-R-RA-vo" of greeting;
after which we were to inquire, "Who's with us to-day?" Whereupon he would make known the character
in which he elected to be received for the occasion. If he announced himself as "Mister Swift,"
everything was to be very grown-up and decorous indeed. Formalities and distances were observed;
and Mr. Corley Linbridge (an elderly personage of great dignity and distinction as a mountain-climber)
was much oftener included in the conversation than Bill Hammersley. If, however, he declared
himself to be "Hamilton Swift, Junior," which was his happiest mood, Bill Hammersley and Simpledoria
were in the ascendant, and there were games and contests. (Dowden, Beasley, and I all slid
down the banisters on one of the Hamilton Swift, Junior, days, at which really picturesque
spectacle the boy almost cried with laughter--and old Bob and his wife, who came running from
the kitchen, DID cry.) He had a third appellation for himself--"Just little Hamilton"; but
this was only when the creaky voice could hardly chirp at all and the weazened face was drawn
to one side with suffering. When he told us he was "Just little Hamilton" we were very quiet.

Once, for ten days, his Invisibles all went away on a visit: Hamilton Swift, Junior, had become
interested in bears. While this lasted, all of Beasley's trousers were, as Dowden said, "a
sight." For that matter, Dowden himself was quite hoarse in court from growling so much. The
bears were dismissed abruptly: Bill Hammersley and Mr. Corley Linbridge and Simpledoria came
trooping back, and with them they brought that wonderful family, the Hunchbergs.

Beasley had just opened the front door, returning at noon from his office, when Hamilton Swift,
Junior's voice came piping from the library, where he was reclining in his wagon by the window.

"Cousin David Beasley! Cousin David, come a-running!" he cried. "Come a-running! The Hunchbergs
are here!"

Of course Cousin David Beasley came a-running, and was immediately introduced to the whole
Hunchberg family, a ceremony which old Bob, who was with the boy, had previously undergone
with courtly grace.

"They like Bob," explained Hamilton. "Don't you, Mr. Hunchberg? Yes, he says they do extremely!"
(He used such words as "extremely" often; indeed, as Dowden said, he talked "like a child in
a book," which was due, I dare say, to his English mother.) "And I'm sure," the boy went on,
"that all the family will admire Cousin David. Yes, Mr. Hunchberg says, he thinks they will."

And then (as Bob told me) he went almost out of his head with joy when Beasley offered Mr.
Hunchberg a cigar and struck a match for him to light it.

"But WHAR," exclaimed the old darky, "whar in de name o' de good Gawd do de chile git dem NAMES?
Hit lak to SKEER me!"

That was a subject often debated between Dowden and me: there was nothing in Wainwright that
could have suggested them, and it did not seem probable he could have remembered them from
over the water. In my opinion they were the inventions of that busy and lonely little brain.

I met the Hunchberg family, myself, the day after their arrival, and Beasley, by that time,
had become so well acquainted with them that he could remember all their names, and helped
in the introductions. There was Mr. Hunchberg--evidently the child's favorite, for he was described
as the possessor of every engaging virtue--and there was that lively matron, Mrs. Hunchberg;
there were the Hunchberg young gentlemen, Tom, Noble, and Grandee; and the young ladies, Miss
Queen, Miss Marble, and Miss Molanna--all exceedingly gay and pretty. There was also Colonel
Hunchberg, an uncle; finally there was Aunt Cooley Hunchberg, a somewhat decrepit but very
amiable old lady. Mr. Corley Linbridge happened to be calling at the same time; and, as it
appeared to be Beasley's duty to keep the conversation going and constantly to include all
of the party in its general flow, it struck me that he had truly (as Dowden said) "enough to
keep him busy."

The Hunchbergs had lately moved to Wainwright from Constantinople, I learned; they had decided
not to live in town, however, having purchased a fine farm out in the country, and, on account
of the distance, were able to call at Beasley's only about eight times a day, and seldom more
than twice in the evening. Whenever a mystic telephone announced that they were on the way,
the child would have himself wheeled to a window; and when they came in sight he would cry
out in wild delight, while Beasley hastened to open the front door and admit them.

They were so real to the child, and Beasley treated them with such consistent seriousness,
that between the two of them I sometimes began to feel that there actually were such people,
and to have moments of half-surprise that I couldn't see them; particularly as each of the
Hunchberg's developed a character entirely his own to the last peculiarity, such as the aged
Aunt Cooley Hunchberg's deafness, on which account Beasley never once forgot to raise his voice
when he addressed her. Indeed, the details of actuality in all this appeared to bring as great
a delight to the man as to the child. Certainly he built them up with infinite care. On one
occasion when Mr. Hunchberg and I happened to be calling, Hamilton remarked with surprise that
Simpledoria had come into the room without licking his hand as he usually did, and had crept
under the table. Mr. Hunchberg volunteered the information (through Beasley) that upon his
approach to the house he had seen Simpledoria chasing a cat. It was then debated whether chastisement
was in order, but finally decided that Simpledoria's surreptitious manner of entrance and his
hiding under the table were sufficient indication that he well understood his baseness, and
would never let it happen again. And so, Beasley having coaxed him out from under the table,
the offender "sat up," begged, and was forgiven. I could almost feel the splendid shaggy head
under my hand when, in turn, I patted Simpledoria to show that the reconciliation was unanimous.

VI

Autumn trailed the last leaves behind her flying brown robes one night; we woke to a skurry
of snow next morning; and it was winter. Down-town, along the sidewalks, the merchants set
lines of poles, covered them with evergreen, and ran streamers of green overhead to encourage
the festal shopping. Salvation Army Santa Clauses stamped their feet and rang bells on the
corners, and pink-faced children fixed their noses immovably to display-windows. For them,
the season of seasons, the time of times, was at hand.

To a certain new reporter on the "Despatch" the stir and gayety of the streets meant little
more than that the days had come when it was night in the afternoon, and that he was given
fewer political assignments. This was annoying, because Beasley's candidacy for the governorship
had given me a personal interest in the political situation. The nominating convention of his
party would meet in the spring; the nomination was certain to carry the election also, and
thus far Beasley showed more strength than any other man in the field. "Things are looking
his way," said Dowden. "He's always worked hard for the party; not on the stump, of course,"
he laughed; "but the boys understand there are more important things than speech-making. His
record in Congress gave him the confidence of everybody in the state, and, besides that, people
always trust a quiet man. I tell you if nothing happens he'll get it."

"I'm FER Beasley," another politician explained, in an interview, "because he's Dave Beasley!
Yes, sir, I'm FER him. You know the boys say if a man is only FOR you, in this state, there
isn't much in it and he may go back on it; but if he's FER you, he means it. Well, I'm FER
Beasley!"

There were other candidates, of course; none of them formidable; but I was surprised to learn
of the existence of a small but energetic faction opposing our friend in Wainwright, his own
town. ("What are you surprised about?" inquired Dowden. "Don't you know what our folks are
like, YET? If St. Paul lived in Wainwright, do you suppose he could run for constable without
some of his near neighbors getting out to try and down him?")

The head and front (and backbone, too) of the opposition to Beasley was a close-fisted, hard-knuckled,
risen-from-the-soil sort of man, one named Simeon Peck. He possessed no inconsiderable influence,
I heard; was a hard worker, and vigorously seconded by an energetic lieutenant, a young man
named Grist. These, and others they had been able to draw to their faction, were bitterly and
eagerly opposed to Beasley's nomination, and worked without ceasing to prevent it.

I quote the invaluable Mr. Dowden again: "Grist's against us because he had a quarrel with
a clerk in Beasley's office, and wanted Beasley to discharge him, and Beasley wouldn't; Sim
Peck's against us out of just plain wrong-headedness, and because he never was for ANYTHING
nor FER anybody in his life. I had a talk with the old mutton-head the other day; he said our
candidate ought to be a farmer, a 'man of the common people,' and when I asked him where he'd
find anybody more a 'man of the common people' than Beasley, he said Beasley was 'too much
of a society man' to suit him! The idea of Dave as a 'society man' was too much for me, and
I laughed in Sim Peck's face, but that didn't stop Sim Peck! 'Jest look at the style he lives
in,' he yelped. 'Ain't he fairly LAPPED in luxury? Look at that big house he lives in! Look
at the way he goes around in that phaeton of his--and a nigger to drive him half the time!'
I had to holler again, and, of course, that made Sim twice as mad as he started out to be;
and he went off swearing he'd show ME, before the campaign was over. The only trouble he and
Grist and that crowd could give us would be by finding out something against Dave, and they
can't do that because there isn't anything to find out."

I shared his confidence on this latter score, but was somewhat less sanguine on some others.
There were only two newspapers of any political influence in Wainwright, the "Despatch" and
the "Journal," both operated in the interest of Beasley's party, and neither had "come out"
for him. The gossip I heard about our office led me to think that each was waiting to see what
headway Sim Peck and his faction would make; the "Journal" especially, I knew, had some inclination
to coquette with Peck, Grist, and Company. Altogether, their faction was not entirely to be
despised.

Thus, my thoughts were a great deal more occupied with Beasley's chances than with the holiday
spirit that now, with furs and bells and wreathing mists of snow, breathed good cheer over
the town. So little, indeed, had this spirit touched me that, one evening when one of my colleagues,
standing before the grate-fire in the reporters' room, yawned and said he'd be glad when to-morrow
was over, I asked him what was the particular trouble with to-morrow.

"Christmas," he explained, languidly. "Always so tedious. Like Sunday."

"It makes me homesick," said another, a melancholy little man who was forever bragging of his
native Duluth.

"Christmas," I repeated--"to-morrow!"

It was Christmas Eve, and I had not known it! I leaned back in my chair in sudden loneliness,
what pictures coming before me of long-ago Christmas Eves at home!--old Christmas Eves when
there was a Tree....

My name was called; the night City Editor had an assignment for me. "Go up to Sim Peck's, on
Madison Street," he said. "He thinks he's got something on David Beasley, but won't say any
more over the telephone. See what there is in it."

I picked up my hat and coat, and left the office at a speed which must have given my superior
the highest conception of my journalistic zeal. At a telephone station on the next corner I
called up Mrs. Apperthwaite's house and asked for Dowden.

"What are you doing?" I demanded, when his voice had responded.

"Playing bridge," he answered.

"Are you going out anywhere?"

"No. What's the trouble?"

"I'll tell you later. I may want to see you before I go back to the office."

"All right. I'll be here all evening."

I hung up the receiver and made off on my errand.

Down-town the streets were crowded with the package-laden people, bending heads and shoulders
to the bitter wind, which swept a blinding, sleet-like snow horizontally against them. At corners
it struck so tumultuous a blow upon the chest of the pedestrians that for a moment it would
halt them, and you could hear them gasping half-smothered "AHS" like bathers in a heavy surf.
Yet there was a gayety in this eager gale; the crowds pressed anxiously, yet happily, up and
down the street in their generous search for things to give away. It was not the rich who struggled
through the storm to-night; these were people who carried their own bundles home. You saw them:
toilers and savers, tired mothers and fathers, worn with the grinding thrift of all the year,
but now for this one night careless of how hard-saved the money, reckless of everything but
the joy of giving it to bring the children joy on the one great to-morrow. So they bent their
heads to the freezing wind, their arms laden with daring bundles and their hearts uplifted
with the tremulous happiness of giving more than they could afford. Meanwhile, Mr. Simeon Peck,
honest man, had chosen this season to work harm if he might to the gentlest of his fellow-men.

I found Mr. Peck waiting for me at his house. There were four other men with him, one of whom
I recognized as Grist, a squat young man with slippery-looking black hair and a lambrequin
mustache. They were donning their coats and hats in the hall when I arrived.

"From the 'Despatch,' hay?" Mr. Peck gave me greeting, as he wound a knit comforter about his
neck. "That's good. We'd most give you up. This here's Mr. Grist, and Mr. Henry P. Cullop,
and Mr. Gus Schulmeyer--three men that feel the same way about Dave Beasley that I do. That
other young feller," he waved a mittened hand to the fourth man--"he's from the 'Journal.'
Likely you're acquainted."

The young man from the 'Journal' was unknown to me; moreover, I was far from overjoyed at his
presence.

"I've got you newspaper men here," continued Mr. Peck, "because I'm goin' to show you somep'n'
about Dave Beasley that'll open a good many folk's eyes when it's in print."

"Well, what is it?" I asked, rather sharply.

"Jest hold your horses a little bit," he retorted. "Grist and me knows, and so do Mr. Cullop
and Mr. Schulmeyer. And I'm goin' to take them and you two reporters to LOOK at it. All ready?
Then come on."

He threw open the door, stooped to the gust that took him by the throat, and led the way out
into the storm.

"What IS he up to?" I gasped to the "Journal" man as we followed in a straggling line.

"I don't know any more than you do," he returned. "He thinks he's got something that'll queer
Beasley. Peck's an old fool, but it's just possible he's got hold of something. Nearly everybody
has ONE thing, at least, that they don't want found out. It may be a good story. Lord, what
a night!"

I pushed ahead to the leader's side. "See here, Mr. Peck--" I began, but he cut me off.

"You listen to ME, young man! I'm givin' you some news for your paper, and I'm gittin' at it
my own way, but I'll git AT it, don't you worry! I'm goin' to let some folks around here know
what kind of a feller Dave Beasley really is; yes, and I'm goin' to show George Dowden he can't
laugh at ME!"

"You're going to show Mr. Dowden?" I said. "You mean you're going to take him on this expedition,
too?"

"TAKE him!" Mr. Peck emitted an acrid bark of laughter. "I guess HE'S at Beasley's, all right."

"No, he isn't; he's at home--at Mrs. Apperthwaite's--playing cards."

"What!"

"I happen to know that he'll be there all evening."

Mr. Peck smote his palms together. "Grist!" he called, over his shoulder, and his colleague
struggled forward. "Listen to this: even Dowden ain't at Beasley's. Ain't the Lord workin'
fer us to-night!"

"Why don't you take Dowden with you," I urged, "if there's anything you want to show him?"

"By George, I WILL!" shouted Peck. "I've got him where the hair's short NOW!"

"That's right," said Grist.

"Gentlemen"--Peck turned to the others--"when we git to Mrs. Apperthwaite's, jest stop outside
along the fence a minute. I recken we'll pick up a recruit."

Shivering, we took up our way again in single file, stumbling through drifts that had deepened
incredibly within the hour. The wind was straight against us, and so stingingly sharp and so
laden with the driving snow that when we reached Mrs. Apperthwaite's gate (which we approached
from the north, not passing Beasley's) my eyes were so full of smarting tears I could see only
blurred planes of light dancing vaguely in the darkness, instead of brightly lit windows.

"Now," said Peck, panting and turning his back to the wind; "the rest of you gentlemen wait
out here. You two newspaper men, you come with me."

He opened the gate and went in, the "Journal" reporter and I following--all three of us wiping
our half-blinded eyes. When we reached the shelter of the front porch, I took the key from
my pocket and opened the door.

"I live here," I explained to Mr. Peck.

"All right," he said. "Jest step in and tell George Dowden that Sim Peck's out here and wants
to see him at the door a minute. Be quick."

I went into the library, and there sat Dowden contemplatively playing bridge with two of the
elderly ladies and Miss Apperthwaite. The last-mentioned person quite took my breath away.

In honor of the Christmas Eve (I supposed) she wore an evening dress of black lace, and the
only word for what she looked has suffered such misuse that one hesitates over it: yet that
is what she was--regal--and no less! There was a sort of splendor about her. It detracted nothing
from this that her expression was a little sad: something not uncommon with her lately; a certain
melancholy, faint but detectable, like breath on a mirror. I had attributed it to Jean Valjean,
though perhaps to-night it might have been due merely to bridge.

"What is it?" asked Dowden, when, after an apology for disturbing the game, I had drawn him
out in the hall.

I motioned toward the front door. "Simeon Peck. He thinks he's got something on Mr. Beasley.
He's waiting to see you."

Dowden uttered a sharp, half-coherent exclamation and stepped quickly to the door. "Peck!"
he said, as he jerked it open.

"Oh, I'm here!" declared that gentleman, stepping into view. "I've come around to let you know
that you couldn't laugh like a horse at ME no more, George Dowden! So YOU weren't invited, either."

"Invited?" said Dowden, "Where?"

"Over to the BALL your friend is givin'."

"What friend?"

"Dave Beasley. So you ain't quite good enough to dance with his high-society friends!"

"What are you talking about?" Dowden demanded, impatiently.

"I reckon you won't be quite so strong fer Beasley," responded Peck, with a vindictive little
giggle, "when you find he can use you in his BUSINESS, but when it comes to ENTERTAININ'--oh
no, you ain't quite the boy!"

"I'd appreciate your explaining," said Dowden. "It's kind of cold standing here."

Peck laughed shrilly. "Then I reckon you better git your hat and coat and come along. Can't
do US no harm, and might be an eye-opener fer YOU. Grist and Gus Schulmeyer and Hank Cullop's
waitin' out yonder at the gate. We be'n havin' kind of a consultation at my house over somep'n'
Grist seen at Beasley's a little earlier in the evening."

"What did Grist see?"

"HACKS! Hacks drivin' up to Beasley's house--a whole lot of 'em. Grist was down the street
a piece, and it was pretty dark, but he could see the lamps and hear the doors slam as the
people got out. Besides, the whole place is lit up from cellar to attic. Grist come on to my
house and told me about it, and I begun usin' the telephone; called up all the men that COUNT
in the party--found most of 'em at home, too. I ast 'em if they was invited to this ball to-night;
and not a one of 'em was. THEY'RE only in politics; they ain't high SOCIETY enough to be ast
to Mr. Beasley's dancin'-parties! But I WOULD 'a' thought he'd let YOU in--ANYWAYS fer the
second table!" Mr. Peck shrilled out his acrid and exultant laugh again. "I got these fellers
from the newspapers, and all I want is to git this here ball in print to-morrow, and see what
the boys that do the work at the primaries have to say about it--and what their WIVES'll say
about the man that's too high-toned to have 'em in his house. I'll bet Beasley thought he was
goin' to keep these doin's quiet; afraid the farmers might not believe he's jest the plain
man he sets up to be--afraid that folks like you that ain't invited might turn against him.
I'LL fool him! We're goin' to see what there is to see, and I'm goin' to have these boys from
the newspapers write a full account of it. If you want to come along, I expect it'll do you
a power o' good."

"I'll go," said Dowden, quickly. He got his coat and hat from a table in the hall, and we rejoined
the huddled and shivering group at the gate.

"Got my recruit, gents!" shrilled Peck, slapping Dowden boisterously on the shoulders. "I reckon
he'll git a change of heart to-night!"

And now, sheltering my eyes from the stinging wind, I saw what I had been too blind to see
as we approached Mrs. Apperthwaite's. Beasley's house WAS illuminated; every window, up stairs
and down, was aglow with rosy light. That was luminously evident, although the shades were lowered.

"Look at that!" Peck turned to Dowden, giggling triumphantly. "Wha'd I tell you! How do you
feel about it NOW?"

"But where are the hacks?" asked Dowden, gravely.

"Folks all come," answered Mr. Peck, with complete assurance. "Won't be no more hacks till
they begin to go home."

We plunged ahead as far as the corner of Beasley's fence, where Peck stopped us again, and
we drew together, slapping our hands and stamping our feet. Peck was delighted--a thoroughly
happy man; his sour giggle of exultation had become continuous, and the same jovial break was
audible in Grist's voice as he said to the "Journal" reporter and me:

"Go ahead, boys. Git your story. We'll wait here fer you."

The "Journal" reporter started toward the gate; he had gone, perhaps, twenty feet when Simeon
Peck whistled in sharp warning. The reporter stopped short in his tracks.

Beasley's front door was thrown open, and there stood Beasley himself in evening dress, bowing
and smiling, but not at us, for he did not see us. The bright hall behind him was beautiful
with evergreen streamers and wreaths, and great flowering plants in jars. A strain of dance-music
wandered out to us as the door opened, but there was nobody except David Beasley in sight,
which certainly seemed peculiar--for a ball!

"Rest of 'em inside, dancin'," explained Mr. Peck, crouching behind the picket-fence. "I'll
bet the house is more'n half full o' low-necked wimmin!"

"Sh!" said Grist. "Listen."

Beasley had begun to speak, and his voice, loud and clear, sounded over the wind. "Come right
in, Colonel!" he said. "I'd have sent a carriage for you if you hadn't telephoned me this afternoon
that your rheumatism was so bad you didn't expect to be able to come. I'm glad you're well
again. Yes, they're all here, and the ladies are getting up a quadrille in the sitting-room."

(It was at this moment that I received upon the calf of the right leg a kick, the ecstatic
violence of which led me to attribute it to Mr. Dowden.)

"Gentlemen's dressing-room up-stairs to the right, Colonel," called Beasley, as he closed the door.

There was a pause of awed silence among us.

(I improved it by returning the kick to Mr. Dowden. He made no acknowledgment of its reception
other than to sink his chin a little deeper into the collar of his ulster.)

"By the Almighty!" said Simeon Peck, hoarsely. "Who--WHAT was Dave Beasley talkin' to? There
wasn't nobody THERE!"

"Git out," Grist bade him; but his tone was perturbed. "He seen that reporter. He was givin'
us the laugh."

"He's crazy!" exclaimed Peck, vehemently.

Immediately all four members of his party began to talk at the same time: Mr. Schulmeyer agreeing
with Grist, and Mr. Cullop holding with Peck that Beasley had surely become insane; while the
"Journal" man, returning, was certain that he had not been seen. Argument became a wrangle;
excitement over the remarkable scene we had witnessed, and, perhaps, a certain sharpness partially
engendered by the risk of freezing, led to some bitterness. High words were flung upon the
wind. Eventually, Simeon Peck got the floor to himself for a moment.

"See here, boys, there's no use gittin' mad amongs' ourselves," he vociferated. "One thing
we're all agreed on: nobody here never seen no such a dam peculiar performance as WE jest seen
in their whole lives before. THURfore, ball or NO ball, there's somep'n' mighty wrong about
this business. Ain't that so?"

They said it was.

"Well, then, there's only one thing to do--let's find out what it is."

"You bet we will."

"I wouldn't send no one in there alone," Peck went on, excitedly, "with a crazy man. Besides,
I want to see what's goin' on, myself."--"So do we!" This was unanimous.

"Then let's see if there ain't some way to do it. Perhaps he ain't pulled all the shades down
on the other side the house. Lots o' people fergit to do that."

There was but one mind in the party regarding this proposal. The next minute saw us all cautiously
sneaking into the side yard, a ragged line of bent and flapping figures, black against the snow.

Simeon Peck's expectations were fulfilled--more than fulfilled. Not only were all the shades
of the big, three-faced bay-window of the "sitting-room" lifted, but (evidently on account
of the too great generosity of a huge log-fire that blazed in the old-fashioned chimney-place)
one of the windows was half-raised as well. Here, in the shadow just beyond the rosy oblongs
of light that fell upon the snow, we gathered and looked freely within.

Part of the room was clear to our view, though about half of it was shut off from us by the
very king of all Christmas-trees, glittering with dozens and dozens of candles, sumptuous in
silver, sparkling in gold, and laden with Heaven alone knows how many and what delectable enticements.
Opposite the Tree, his back against the wall, sat old Bob, clad in a dress of state, part of
which consisted of a swallow-tail coat (with an overgrown chrysanthemum in the buttonhole),
a red necktie, and a pink-and-silver liberty cap of tissue-paper. He was scraping a fiddle
"like old times come again," and the tune he played was, "Oh, my Liza, po' gal!" My feet shuffled
to it in the snow.

No one except old Bob was to be seen in the room, but we watched him and listened breathlessly.
When he finished "Liza," he laid the fiddle across his knee, wiped his face with a new and
brilliant blue silk handkerchief, and said:

"Now come de big speech."

The Honorable David Beasley, carrying a small mahogany table, stepped out from beyond the Christmas-tree,
advanced to the centre of the room; set the table down; disappeared for a moment and returned
with a white water-pitcher and a glass. He placed these upon the table, bowed gracefully several
times, then spoke:

"Ladies and gentlemen--" There he paused.

"Well," said Mr. Simeon Peck, slowly, "don't this beat hell!"

"Look out!" The "Journal" reporter twitched his sleeve. "Ladies present."

"Where?" said I.

He leaned nearer me and spoke in a low tone. "Just behind us. She followed us over from your
boarding-house. She's been standing around near us all along. I supposed she was Dowden's daughter,
probably."

"He hasn't any daughter," I said, and stepped back to the hooded figure I had been too absorbed
in our quest to notice.

It was Miss Apperthwaite.

She had thrown a loose cloak over her head and shoulders; but enveloped in it as she was, and
crested and epauletted with white, I knew her at once. There was no mistaking her, even in
a blizzard.