    "The average wages, clear of board, amount to about two dollars
    a week. Many an aged father or mother, in the country, is made
    happy and comfortable, by the self-sacrificing contributions
    from the affectionate and dutiful daughter here. Many an old
    homestead has been cleared of its incumbrances, and thus saved
    to the family by these liberal and honest earnings. To the many
    and most gratifying and cheering facts, which, in the course of
    this examination I have had occasion to state, I here add a few
    others relating to the matter now under discussion, furnished me
    by Mr. Carney, the treasurer of the Lowell Institution for
    Savings. The whole number of depositors in this institution, on
    the 23d July, was nineteen hundred and seventy-six; the whole
    number of deposits was three hundred and five thousand seven
    hundred and ninety-six dollars and seventy cents, (about
    £60,000.) Of these depositors, nine hundred and seventy-eight
    are factory girls, and the amount of their funds now in the
    bank, is estimated by Mr. Carney, in round numbers, at one
    hundred thousand dollars, (about £20,000.) It is a common thing
    for one of these girls to have five hundred dollars (about £100
    sterling) in deposit, and the only reason why she does not
    exceed this sum is the fact, that the institution pays no
    interest on any larger sum than this. After reaching this
    amount, she invests her remaining funds elsewhere."

In confirmation of this description of the state of the Lowell population, I have obtained,
through the kindness of a friend in Massachusetts, the following parallel statistics to a recent
date:--

    "PUBLIC SCHOOLS.--By the report of the school committee for the
    year ending on the 5th of Fourth Month (April) 1841, it appears
    that the whole number of pupils in the schools, who attended
    during the whole or part of the year, was 5,830. The whole
    amount expended by the city for these schools, during the year,
    was 18,106 dollars, 51 cents.

    "SABBATH SCHOOLS.--The number of scholars and teachers in the
    Sabbath Schools, connected with the various religious societies
    in Lowell, during the year ending on the 5th of Seventh Month
    (July) 1841, was 5,493.

    "SAVINGS BANK.--The Lowell Institution for Savings, in its
    report of Fifth Month (May), 1840, acknowledges 328,395 dollars,
    55 cents, deposits, from 2,137 persons; together with 16,093
    dollars, 29 cents, nett amount received for interest on loans
    and dividends in stocks, less expense and dividends paid--making
    in all, 344,488 dollars, 84 cents; nett amount of interest,
    24,714 dollars, 61 cents. Within the year, 120,175 dollars, 69
    cents, had been deposited, and 70,384 dollars, 24 cents, drawn
    out.

    "PAUPERS.--The whole expense of the city for the support of the
    poor, during the year ending on the 31st of Twelfth Month
    (December) 1840, was 2,698 dollars, 61 cents."

As a proof, slight yet significant, of the spread of intellectual cultivation, I ought not
to omit a notice of the "Lowell Offering," a little monthly magazine, of original articles,
written exclusively by the factory girls. The editor of the Boston Christian Examiner commends
this little periodical to those who consider the factory system to be degrading and demoralizing;
and expresses a doubt "whether a committee of young ladies, selected from the most refined
and best educated families in any of our towns and cities, could make a fairer appearance in
type than these hard-working factory girls."

The city of Lowell has been distinguished by British tourists as the Manchester of the United
States; but, in view of the facts above related, an American has declared it to be "not the
Manchester of the United States."

Besides the general prosperity of the operatives, the shareholders in the different corporations
divide from eight to fifteen per cent, per annum on their capital.

The inquiry naturally suggests itself, why the state of things in the manufacturing districts
of Great Britain should be so widely different from this? Some may satisfy themselves by recollecting
that England is an old and America a young country; though, to my mind, this affords no reasonable
explanation of the contrast--since, from the possession of surplus capital, complete machinery,
and facility of communication, et cet., the advantages for commerce and manufactures, under
a system of perfectly unrestricted exchange, must preponderate greatly in favor of the former.
But whatever the solution of the difficulty, it is quite evident that the statesman who would
elevate the moral standard of our working population, must begin by removing the physical depression
and destitution in which a large proportion of them, without any fault of their own, are compelled
to drag out a weary and almost hopeless existence. To some peculiarly constituted minds, "over-production"
is the explanation of the present appalling distresses of this country; and what they are pleased
to consider a healthy state of things, is to be restored by a diminution of production;--yet
nothing is more certain, than that the largest amount of production which has ever been reached,
is not more than adequate to supply our increasing population with the necessaries of life,
on even a very limited scale of comfort. A diminished production implies the starving down
of the population to such a diminished number as may obtain leave to toil, and leave to subsist,
from legislators, who, either in ignorance or selfishness, set aside nature's laws, and disregard
the plainly legible ordinances of Divine Providence. If we reflect on the part which commerce
is made to perform in the moral government of the world, on the one hand as the bond of peace
between powerful nations, by creating a perpetual interchange of temporal benefits; and, on
the other, as the channel for the diffusion of blessings of an intellectual and spiritual kind;
we are conducted irresistibly to the conclusion, that any arbitrary interruption of its free
course must draw down its own punishment.

Though the laws of nature may not permit the limited soil of this country to grow food enough
for its teeming population, yet while Great Britain possesses mineral wealth, abundant capital,
and the largest amount of skilled industry of any nation in the world, the tributary supplies
of other countries would not only satisfy our present wants, but would, I firmly believe, with
an unfettered commerce, raise our working population, the most numerous, and by far the most
important part of the community, to the same level of prosperity as the same class in the United
States. Then would there be more hope for the success of efforts to elevate the standard of
moral and intellectual cultivation among them, for as an improvable material they are no way
inferior to any population upon earth. John Curtis of Ohio, a free trade missionary to this
country, has published a pamphlet full of important statistical facts, illustrating the suicidal
policy of Great Britain, from which I venture to take the following extracts:

    "England already obtains luxuries in superabundance; but these
    can never supply the wants of her artizans--they demand
    substantial bread and meat, and a market where their labor can
    procure these necessaries. Tropical climates are not adapted to
    supply their wants. For this reason trade either with the East
    or West Indies cannot give effectual relief: it may furnish
    luxuries, but England is overstocked with them already. The food
    of tropical climates, with the exception of rice, is not
    calculated for export. The people of England, if they are to
    import food, need the production of a climate similar to their
    own. In this respect America is well adapted to supply them.

    "All parts of the United States between thirty-seven and
    forty-four degrees of north latitude will produce wheat. But
    that part of the country best adapted to furnish an abundant
    supply is, beyond all question, the northern part of the
    Mississippi valley, and the contiguous country south of the
    great lakes. It has been styled par excellence the
    wheat-growing region of America. Within its limits lie the six
    north-western States of the American Union, Ohio, Indiana,
    Illinois, Michigan, Iowa, and Wiskonsan (including as States the
    two territories of Iowa and Wiskonsan, about to be admitted into
    the Union.) These States, exclusive of two hundred thousand
    square miles, the title to which is yet mostly in the Indian
    tribes, cover an area of two hundred and thirty-six thousand and
    eleven square miles. The country is, generally, an undulating
    prairie, interspersed with groves of trees, and unbroken by hill
    or mountain. The soil commonly rests upon a strata of limestone,
    is fertile beyond description, and abundantly watered by the
    finest springs and streams. Its climate is clear and salubrious,
    and the country as well calculated as any other on the globe to
    minister to the support and happiness of civilized man. As
    already explained, for an inland country, it possesses
    unequalled facilities for foreign intercourse and commerce, by
    means of its great lakes and rivers. The most distant parts of
    it are now reached in twenty days from Liverpool. The energies
    of the American people have been chiefly expended, during the
    last few years, in opening and taking possession of this region,
    which they consider destined to become the future seat of
    American wealth and greatness.

    "Wheat once formed a leading article in the exports of the
    United States. The trade of that country with Great Britain was
    then double the present amount in proportion to the number of
    the population. Had the trade of the two countries continued
    free, it would have increased with the increase of population
    and capital. The legitimate exchange trade has decreased between
    England and America for thirty years. What part has the
    restrictive system had in producing this result? A few facts may
    enable us not only to answer this question, but to anticipate
    the consequences of a continuance of the same policy. From the
    time of the revolutionary war in America until 1812, the trade
    between the two countries regularly increased with the increase
    of the population. The average annual consumption of foreign
    merchandise in the United States for each inhabitant was,

    From 1790 to 1800,  39s. 4d.
      "  1800 to 1810,  41s. 8d.

