"Lord! I don't know how many hours or days we wandered around there! I slept twice from sheer
exhaustion; Tweel never seemed to need sleep. We tried following only the upward corridors,
but they'd run uphill a ways and then curve downwards. The temperature in that damned ant hill
was constant; you couldn't tell night from day and after my first sleep I didn't know whether
I'd slept one hour or thirteen, so I couldn't tell from my watch whether it was midnight or noon.

"We saw plenty of strange things. There were machines running in some of the corridors, but
they didn't seem to be doing anything--just wheels turning. And several times I saw two barrel-beasts
with a little one growing between them, joined to both."

"Parthenogenesis!" exulted Leroy. "Parthenogenesis by budding like les tulipes!"

"If you say so, Frenchy," agreed Jarvis. "The things never noticed us at all, except, as I
say, to greet us with 'We are v-r-r-riends! Ouch!' They seemed to have no home-life of any
sort, but just scurried around with their pushcarts, bringing in rubbish. And finally I discovered
what they did with it.

"We'd had a little luck with a corridor, one that slanted upwards for a great distance. I was
feeling that we ought to be close to the surface when suddenly the passage debouched into a
domed chamber, the only one we'd seen. And man!--I felt like dancing when I saw what looked
like daylight through a crevice in the roof.

"There was a--a sort of machine in the chamber, just an enormous wheel that turned slowly,
and one of the creatures was in the act of dumping his rubbish below it. The wheel ground it
with a crunch--sand, stones, plants, all into powder that sifted away somewhere. While we watched,
others filed in, repeating the process, and that seemed to be all. No rhyme nor reason to the
whole thing--but that's characteristic of this crazy planet. And there was another fact that's
almost too bizarre to believe.

"One of the creatures, having dumped his load, pushed his cart aside with a crash and calmly
shoved himself under the wheel! I watched him being crushed, too stupefied to make a sound,
and a moment later, another followed him! They were perfectly methodical about it, too; one
of the cartless creatures took the abandoned pushcart.

"Tweel didn't seem surprised; I pointed out the next suicide to him, and he just gave the most
human-like shrug imaginable, as much as to say, 'What can I do about it?' He must have known
more or less about these creatures.

"Then I saw something else. There was something beyond the wheel, something shining on a sort
of low pedestal. I walked over; there was a little crystal about the size of an egg, fluorescing
to beat Tophet. The light from it stung my hands and face, almost like a static discharge,
and then I noticed another funny thing. Remember that wart I had on my left thumb? Look!" Jarvis
extended his hand. "It dried up and fell off--just like that! And my abused nose--say, the
pain went out of it like magic! The thing had the property of hard x-rays or gamma radiations,
only more so; it destroyed diseased tissue and left healthy tissue unharmed!

"I was thinking what a present that'd be to take back to Mother Earth when a lot of racket
interrupted. We dashed back to the other side of the wheel in time to see one of the pushcarts
ground up. Some suicide had been careless, it seems.

"Then suddenly the creatures were booming and drumming all around us and their noise was decidedly
menacing. A crowd of them advanced toward us; we backed out of what I thought was the passage
we'd entered by, and they came rumbling after us, some pushing carts and some not. Crazy brutes!
There was a whole chorus of 'We are v-r-r-riends! Ouch!' I didn't like the 'ouch'; it was rather
suggestive.

