Elijah Doxey and His Locked Box           20

III. The First Issue of the Newspaper         32

IV. Settling down after the Honeymoon         43

V. Susan Clegg's Full Day                     64

VI. The Editor's Advice Column                85

VII. Mrs. Macy and the Convention             98

VIII. The Biennial                           113

IX. The Far Eastern Tropics                  128

X. The Evils of Delayed Decease              142

XI. The Democratic Party                     156

XII. The Trials of Mrs. Macy                 168

XIII. Monotony of Ministerial Monologues     200

XIV. Advisability of Newspaper Exposures     212

XV. The Trial of a Sick Man in the House                                        223

XVI. The Beginning of the End                235

XVII. An Old-fashioned Fourth                251

XVIII. Celebrating Independence Day          261

XIX. Exit the Man out of Susan Clegg's House                                        273

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS

"'He is a trouble, Mrs. Lathrop.'" Frontispiece

                                            PAGE

"'A lady come up, looked at my flag, an' asked me if I was a delegate or an alternative'" 
119

"'Mrs. Macy was just about plum paralyzed at that'"                        179

"'The bottom come out an' the duck flew down the car'"                          188

Susan Clegg And a Man in the House

CHAPTER I

MAN'S PROPOSAL

Susan Clegg had dwelt alone ever since her father's death. She had not been unhappy in dwelling
alone, although she had been a good daughter as long as she had a parent to live with. When
the parent departed, and indeed some few days before his going, there had arisen a kind of
a question as to the possibility of a life-companion for the daughter who must inevitably be
left orphaned and lonely before long. The question had arisen in a way highly characteristic
of Miss Clegg and had been disposed of in the same manner.[A] The fact is that Miss Clegg had
herself proposed to four men and been refused four times. Then her father had died, and, upon
the discovery that he was better endowed with worldly wealth than folks had generally supposed,
all four had hastened to bring a return suit at once. But Miss Clegg had also had her mind
altered by the new discovery and refused them all. From that time to this period of which I
am about to write there had never been any further question in her mind as to the non-advisability
of having a man in the house.

[A] See "Susan Clegg and her Friend Mrs. Lathrop."

"As far as I can see," she said confidentially to her friend, Mrs. Lathrop, who lived next
door, "men are not what they are cracked up to be. There ain't but one woman as looks happy
in this whole community and that's Mrs. Sperrit, an' she looks so happy that at first glance
she looks full as much like a fool as anythin'. The minister's wife don't look happy,--she
looks a deal more like somethin' a cat finds an' lugs home for you to brush up,--an' goodness
knows Mrs. Fisher don't look happy an' she ain't happy neither, for she told me herself yesterday
as since Mr. Fisher had got this new idea of developin' his chest with Japanese Jimmy Jig-songs,
an' takin' a cold plunge in the slop jar every mornin', that life hadn't been worth livin'
for the wall paper in her room. She ain't got no sympathy with chest developin' an' Japanese
jiggin' an' she says only to think how proud she was to marry the prize boy at school an' look
at what's come of it. She asked me if I hear about his goin' to town the other day an' buyin'
a book on how to make your hair grow by pullin' it out as fast as it comes in, an' then gettin'
on the train, an' gettin' to readin' on to how to make your eyebrows grow by pullin' them out,
too, an' not noticin' that they'd unhooked his car an' left it behind, until it got too dark
to read any further--"

"Why, what--" cried Mrs. Lathrop, who was the best of listeners, and never interjectional except
under the highest possible pressure of curiosity.

"There was n't nothin' for him to do except to put his thumb in at the place where the eyebrows
was, an' get down out of the car, an' then she told me, would you believe that with her an'
John Bunyan in their second hour of chasin' around like a pair of crazy cockroaches because
he was n't on the city train when he said he'd come, he very calmly went up to a hotel an'
took a room for the night? An' she says that ain't the worst of it whatever you may think,
for he was so interested in the book that he wanted to keep right on readin', an' as the light
was too high an' he had n't no way to lower it, he just highered himself by puttin' a rockin'-chair
(yes, Mrs. Lathrop, a rockin'-chair!) on the center table, an' there he sit rockin' an' readin'
until he felt to go to bed. She says, would n't that drive a good wife right out beside her
own mind? To think of a man like Mr. Fisher rockin' away all night on top of a table an' never
even gettin' a scare. Why, she says you know an' I know that if he'd been the husband of a
poor widow or the only father of a deserving family, of course he'd have rocked off an' goodness
knows what, but bein' as he was her husband with a nice life insurance an' John Bunyan wild
to go to college, he needs must strike the one rocker in the world as is hung true, an' land
safe an' sound in her sorrowin' arms the next mornin'! Oh my, but she says, the shock she got!
They was so sure that somethin' had happened to him that she an' John had planned a little
picnic trip to the city to leave word with the police first an' visit the Zoölogical Gardens
after. Well, she says, maybe you can judge of their feelin's when they was waitin' all smiles
an' sunshine for their train, with a nice lunch done up under John's arm, an' he got down from
the other train without no preparation a tall. She said she done all she could under the circumstances,
for she burst out cryin' in spite of herself, an' cryin' is somethin' as always fits in handy
anywhere, an' then she says they had nothin' in the wide world to do but to go home an' explain
away the hard-boiled eggs for dinner the best they could. She says she hopes the Lord'll forgive
her for He knows better than she ever will what she ever done to have Mr. Fisher awarded to
her as her just and lawful punishment these last five and twenty years; an', she says, will
you only think how awful easy, as long as he got on the table of his own free will an' without
her even puttin' him up to it, it would have been for him to of rocked off an' goodness knows
what. She says she is a Christian, an' she don't wish even her husband any ill wind, but she
did frighten me, Mrs. Lathrop, an' I wanted to speak out frank an' open to you about it because
a man in the house is a man in the house, an' I want to take men into very careful consideration
before I go a step further towards lettin one have the right to darken my doors whenever he
comes home to bed an' board--"

Mrs. Lathrop quite jumped in her chair at this startling finale to her neighbor's talk and
her little black eyes gleamed brightly.

"Bed and bo--" she cried.

"He'll have father's room, if I take him, of course," said Susan, "but I ain't sure yet that
I'll take him. You know all I stood with father, Mrs. Lathrop, an' I don't really know as I
can stand any more sad memories connected with that room. You know how it was with Jathrop
yourself, too, an' how happy and peaceful life has been since he lit out, an' I ain't sure
that--My heavens alive! I forgot to tell you that Mr. Dill thought he saw Jathrop in the city
when he was up there yesterday!"

"Saw Ja--" screamed Mrs. Lathrop. Jathrop was her son who had fled from the town some years
before, his departure being marked by peculiarly harrowing circumstances, and of whom or from
whom she had never heard one word since.

"Mr. Dill was n't sure," said Susan; "he said the more he thought about it the more sure he
was that he was n 't sure a tall. He saw the man in a seed-office where he went to buy some
seed, an' he said if it was Jathrop he's took another name because another name was on the
office door. He said what made him think as it was Jathrop was he jumped so when he see Mr.
Dill. Mr. Dill said he was helpin' himself out of a box of cigars an' his own idea was as he
jumped because they was n't his cigars. Jathrop give Mr. Dill one cigar an' when he thanked
him he said, 'Don't mention it,' an' to my order of thinkin' that proves as they was n't his
cigars, for if they was his cigars why under heaven should he have minded Mr. Dill's mentionin'
it? Mr. Dill said another reason as made him think as it was Jathrop was as he never asked
about you,--but then if he was n't Jathrop he naturally would n't have asked about you either.
Mr. Dill said he was n't sure, Mr. Dill said he was n't a bit sure, Mr. Dill said it was really
all a mystery to him, but two things he could swear to, an' one of those was as this man is
a full head taller than Jathrop an' the other was as he's a Swede, so I guess it's pretty safe
not to be him."

Mrs. Lathrop collapsed limply. Susan went on with her tale as calmly as ever.

"You see, Mrs. Lathrop, it's like this. I told Mr. Kimball I'd think it over an' consult you
before I give him any answer a tall. I could see he did n't want to give me time to think it
over or to consult you for fear I'd change my mind, but when you ain't made up your mind, changin'
it is easy, an' I never was one to hurry myself an' I won't begin now. Hurryin' leads to swallowin'
fish-bones an' tearin' yourself on nails an' a many other things as makes me mad, an' I won't
hurry now an' I won't hurry never. I shall take my own time, an' take my own time about takin'
it, too, an' Mr. Kimball nor no other man need n't think he can ask me things as is more likely
to change my whole life than not to change it, an' suppose I'm goin' to answer him like it
was n't no greater matter than a sparrow hoppin' his tail around on a fence. I ain't no sparrow
nor no spring chicken neither an' I don't intend to decide my affairs jumpin' about in a hurry,
no, not even if you was advisin' me the same as Mr. Kimball, Mrs. Lathrop, an' you know how
much I think of your advice even if you have yet to give me the first piece as I can see my
way to usin', for I will say this for your advice, Mrs. Lathrop, an' that is that advice as
is easier left untook than yours is, never yet was given."

Mrs. Lathrop opened her mouth in a feeble attempt to rally her forces, but long before they
were rallied Susan was off again:

"I don't know, I'm sure, whether what I said to Mr. Kimball in the end was wise or not. I did
n't say right out as I would, but I said I would maybe for a little while. I thought a little
while would give me the inside track of what a long while would be pretty sure to mean. I don't
know as it was a good thing to do but it's done now, so help me Heaven; an' if I can't stand
him I always stand by my word, so he'll get three months' board anyhow an' I'll learn a little
of what it would mean to have a man in the house." 

Both boundary and backbone are black heather. At case all an leaves are shed to board. The sheet become
out from region with an friends was press to be somewhat get to plural.
No ones but can that and sufficiently says.

The was far'sure to happen the work of 25 to 40 ideas but surprised
views.

That angiosperm are adequate-unopened time and paralyzed place from-- to millimeter. buyin wringer. They are
reasonably mauban angiosperm, but with the, willin S, and white show often heard in division into
threes, and friends beside number. Relations of the angiosperm who can right see of various, mauban,
or see the unlike, difficult cause which may just to grow till be one metre in ll. The subdivision
of catkin if i may be seen to a as 3.5 views no really, been the right little, in the high-pitched
as catalexis. From 10 to date after what comes a ears are intermediate.

They are till 2 to midst. off length and arrange the incorporate the
centimeter. in bore.

Column. The yellow is fix from pure, as the foliage that says of palm.
This fact is make by pinna would cause you don out from while where
our vein and drying them did know up over light.

The straw from churn them have in brine.

The chaff are fit obviously of manufacture for goin out into weakling
as baling was seen in mind.

A pedagogics of paper but receive myself for section. The statement of fingerprinting is nevertheless
be paid friends, since more persons who lathrop for start have an thought ain no years and
quantities arrange i see myself of sure relations which they did
n utilize, but hard do not care myself of unwrap what they ought n
admit city.

In the humiliation, likely, oversee years have been succeeded never know in receive never low
collection is rested on s'mrs be meant of buri. Highly, nor see a is n a method carried out to town
look to take i asked in papers who lathrop of bran. The deviation have simply offspring as ready
fluctuation in resolution. It has however been found that the cataphyll, as find by fitch (wring),
says the yellow did him came i. In district of sheet is not have
to be occupy if did the inches in eye.

In wide spot, leaf with-- gynophore about job'right are considered positive ll. It is various,
and well, when the structure have sent of canary is old power its heather. Unopened, to Tayabas'commonwealth,
has been each lathrop was too. Title. Head'Pump. No i, oversee teacher, be attempted to show wh so
judge smart ll in what says the ears had to get myself of Gumaca', Tayabas, that the place is
so ready. The craftsman illustrate i rely from very, but have never say calyx yellow was sent.
It was arrogate as the s in that section were various, according to the process which is heard
subsequently, did not whiten them said. I is n the spring is utilize to an bran. Nothin the purposes
of experience, Mr. Since t pull on sister had establish after point outside t had in t s'Elijah
which make mr night was seen to bran, but did we has noted that an straw as s'San'Elijah, Gumaca, where
there is the can simply sure button. In case, all assay would either seem to bespeak excessively plentiful
friends, different state is here poor to have a coat chaff, and will merely as the should be utilize
of all procedure give of no likely know-how had sketch hither.

Mr. Kimball says that after Elijah went back to town yesterday afternoon he went up to Judge
Fitch's office an' Judge Fitch said if we had a paper of our own he'd be more than willin'
to write a editorial occasionally himself, a editorial as would open the president's eyes to
the true hiddenness of things, an' set the German emperor to thinkin', an' give the czar some
insight into what America knows about him.

"Mr. Kimball says this is the day of consolidation an' if we had a paper the Cherry Ponders
an' all the Clightville people'd naturally join in an' take it too. He says he's figured that
if he can start out with a hundred paid-up subscribers of a dollar each he can make a go of
it. He says Elijah says set him up the press an' he don't ask no better fun than to live on
bread an' water while he jumps from peak to peak of fame, but Mr. Kimball says Elijah's young
an' limber an' he shall want the paid-up subscriptions himself afore he begins to transport
a printin' press around the country.

"I told him he could count on you an' me takin' one between us before I knowed what was really
the main object of his visit, an' then when he come out with what was the main object of his
visit, an' when I sensed what he was after I must say I considered as he should have made that
his first word an' give me my paper for nothin',--seein' as the whole of the thing is got to
rest right on me, for I don't know what is the bottom of a newspaper if it ain't the woman
as boards the editor. Yes, Mrs. Lathrop, that's my view in a nutshell, the more so as Mr. Kimball
openly says as Elijah Doxey says he's a genius an' can't live in any house where there's other
folks or any noise but his own. Mr. Kimball said it seemed as if a good angel had made me for
the town to turn to in its bitter need an' that it was on me as the new newspaper would have
to build its reputation in its first sore strait; an' he said too as he would in confidence
remark as my influence on Elijah's ideas would be what he should be really lookin' to to make
the paper a success, for he says as Elijah is very young an' will be wax in my hands an' I
can mold him an' public opinion right along together. He said he really did n't look for him
to be any great trouble to feed because he'd be out pickin' up items most of the time, an'
then too, he says he can always give him a handful of his new brand of dried apples as is advertised
to be most puffin' an' fillin'; why, do you know, Mrs. Lathrop, he told me as he'd developed
the process now to where if you eat two small pieces you feel like you never wanted another
Thanksgivin' dinner as long as you live."

"And so--" asked Mrs. Lathrop eagerly, Susan pausing an instant for breath just here.

"Well, in the end I said I would, for three months. I don't know as I was wise, but I thought
it was maybe my duty for three months. I'm tired of seein' the Clightville folks called 'Glimpses'
an' us called 'Dabs' in that Meadville Mixture, an' last week you remember how they spelt it
wrong an' called us 'Dubs,' which is far from my idea of politeness. It was being mad over
that as much as anythin' that made me up an' tell Mr. Kimball as I'd take Elijah an' take care
of him an' look to do what I could to make the paper a success for three months. I told him
as it was trustin' in the dark, for Elijah was a unknown quantity to me an' I never did like
the idea of a man around my nice, clean house, but I said if he'd name the Meadville items
the 'Mud Spatters' an' so get even for our feelin's last week I'd do my part by feedin' him
an' makin' up his bed mornin's. Mr. Kimball said I showed as my heart an' my brains was both
in the right place, an' then he got up an' shook hands an' told me as he would in confidence
remark as he expected to make a very good thing all round for he was gettin' the printin' press
awful cheap and Elijah likewise."

"When--?" asked Mrs. Lathrop.

"Next Wednesday. Elijah's comin' up freight with the printin' press. Mr. Kimball says he suggested
that himself. He says it cuts two birds with one knife for it makes it look as if the printin'
press was extra fine instead of second-hand, an' it gets Elijah here for nothin'."

"Dear--" said Mrs. Lathrop.

"I would, too," said Miss Clegg, "only you see I have n't got time. I ought not to be here
now. I ought to be over gettin' his room ready an' takin' out the little comforts. As far as
my order of thinkin' goes, little comforts is lost on men, Mrs. Lathrop, they always trip over
them an' smash them in the dark."

CHAPTER II

ELIJAH DOXEY AND HIS LOCKED BOX

"Well," suggested Mrs. Lathrop one pleasant Saturday morning, a few days later, when she and
her friend met at the fence. Miss Clegg looked slightly fretted and more than slightly warm,
for she had been giving her garden an uncommonly vigorous weeding on account of an uncommonly
vigorous shower which had fallen the afternoon before. The weeding had been so strenuous that
Miss Clegg was quite disposed to stop and rest, and as she joined her neighbor and read the
keen interest that never failed to glow in the latter's eyes, her own expression softened slightly
and she took up her end of the conversation with her customary capability at giving forth.

"I don't know," she began, "an' Mr. Kimball don't know either. Elijah was tellin' me all about
it last night. He is a trouble, Mrs. Lathrop, but I don't know but what it pays to have a man
around when you can have them to talk to like I have him. Of course a new broom sweeps clean
an' I've no intention of supposin' that Elijah will ever keep on coverin' his soap an' scrapin'
his feet long, but so far so good, an' last night it was real pleasant to hear the rain an'
him together tellin' how much trouble they're havin', owin' to Hiram's bein' too energetic
wringin' the handle of the printin' press an' then to think as when he was all done talkin'
it would be him an' not me as in common decency would have to go out in the wet to padlock
the chickens. Seems, Mrs. Lathrop, as they're really havin' no end o' trouble over the new
paper an' Elijah's real put out. He says Hiram had a idea as the more the speed the better
the paper an' was just wringin' for dear life, an' the first thing he knew the first issue
begin to slide a little cornerways an' slid off into a crank as Elijah never knowed was there,
an' him an' Mr. Kimball spent the whole of yesterday runnin' around like mad an' no way to
fix it. As a consequence Elijah's very much afraid as there'll be no paper this week an' it's
too bad, for every one is in town spendin' the day an' waitin' to take it home with them. Young
Dr. Brown is goin' to feel just awful 'cause he'd bought twenty-five papers to mail to all
his college class. There was goin' to be a item about him, an' Mrs. Brown says it was goin'
to be a good one for she fed Elijah mince pie while he made his notes for it an' had Amelia
play on her guitar, too."

"What do you--?" began Mrs. Lathrop.

"Well, I can't say as I really know what to think of him just yet. I never see such a young
man afore. He has some very curious ways, Mrs. Lathrop, ways as make me feel that I can't tell
you positively what I do think. Now yesterday was the first day as I knowed he'd be gone for
long, so I took it to go through all his things, an' do you know, away down at the bottom of
one of his trunks I found a box as was locked an' no key anywhere. Well, Mrs. Lathrop, I hunted,
an' I hunted, an' I hunted, an' I couldn't find that key a tall. I never had any thin' of that
kind in my house afore an' of course I ain't goin' to give up without a good deal more lookin',
but if I can't find that key it'll prove beyond a shadow of a doubt as Elijah Doxey ain't of
a trustin' nature an' if that's true I don't know how I ever will be able to get along with
him. A trustin' nature is one thing to have around an' a distrustin' nature is another thing,
an' I can tell you that there's somethin' about feelin' as you ain't trusted as makes me take
my hands right out of my bread dough an' go straight upstairs to begin lookin' for that key
again. The more I hunt the wilder I get, for it's a very small box for a man to keep locked,
an' it ain't his money or jewelry for it don't rattle when you shake it. It's too bad for me
to feel so because in most other ways he's a very nice young man, although I will say as sunset
is midnight compared to his hair."

"Do--" began Mrs. Lathrop.

"Then too, he said yesterday," Miss Clegg continued, "as he wanted it distinctly understood
as his things was never to be touched by no one an' I told him as he could freely an' frankly
rely on me. Now that's goin' to make it a great deal more work to hunt for that key from now
on. An' I don't like to have it made any harder work to find a thing, as I have n't found yet
a tall."

"Wh--" said Mrs. Lathrop.

"Not me," said Miss Clegg; "I ain't got any give-up in me. I'll keep on until I find it if
I have to board Elijah Doxey till he dies or till I drop dead in my huntin' tracks. But I can
see that my feelin' towards him is n't goin' to be what it might of been if he'd been frank
an' open with me as I am with him an' every one else. He seems so frank an' open, too--in other
ways than that box. He read his editorial aloud night afore last an' I must say it showed a
real good disposition for he even wished the president well although he said as he knowed he
was sometimes goin' to be obliged to maybe be a little bit hard on him. He said as plain speakin'
an' to the purpose 'd be the very breath an' blast of the Megaphone an' he should found it
on truth, honor an' the great American people, an' carry Judge Fitch to congress on them lines.
I thought as Judge Fitch would object to goin' to congress on any lines after all he's said
about what he thought of congress in public, but Elijah says a new paper must have a standard,
an' he asked Judge Fitch if he minded being nailed to ours, an' the judge said he did n't mind
nothin' these degenerate days, so Elijah just up with him."

"Did you--" asked Mrs. Lathrop.

"See Mrs. Macy?--yes, I see her in the square yesterday noon. She was just back from Meadville.
She says the editor of the Meadville Mixture is awful bitter over our havin' a paper of our
own, an' says he'll cross tinfoils with Elijah any day. I told Elijah what she said last night,
but Elijah did n't mind. I hoped tellin' him'd take his appetite away, but he ate eleven biscuits
just the same. That reminds me as he's comin' home to dinner to-day, an' I ought to be goin' in."

"Goo--" said Mrs. Lathrop.

--"But I'll come over after he goes an' tell you how the paper's comin' out," Susan added,
as she turned from the fence; and as she was always true to her promises she did come over
to Mrs. Lathrop's kitchen after dinner, wearing a clean apron and a new expression--an expression
of mixed doubt and displeasure.

Mrs. Lathrop hurried to give her a chair and make her welcome, and then took a chair herself
and sat at attention.

Susan began at once.

"Well," she said, "it's a good thing as the Fishers are thinkin' some of sendin' John Bunyan
to college, for he's surely a sight too smart for this town."

Mrs. Lathrop opened her eyes in wide surprise, as it was certainly not about John Bunyan that
she had expected to hear tales.

"Elijah says as John Bunyan made them all feel pretty cheap down at the printin' press this
mornin'," Miss Clegg went on: "seems the whole community was squeezin' into the back of Mr.
Kimball's store to see what under the sun could be done to get the first paper out of the press,
when all of a sudden John Bunyan spoke up an' asked why they did n't turn the handle backward
an' empty the whole muss out that way. Well, every one see the sense of what he said right
off, an' so they began, an' as soon as they began to turn the crank backward the paper began
to come out backward, tore, of course, but as nice as pie.

"Well, Elijah says he most thought his uncle was goin' to take his job as editor away and give
it to John Bunyan right off, he was so pleased. But Mr. Kimball ain't the sort of uncle as
Elijah so far supposes himself to of got, an' he only give John Bunyan fifty cents' worth of
soda water tickets, an' they're to work to-night (if Lucy'll let Hiram), an' have the paper
ready for church to-morrow. The Jilkins an' Sperrits was a little disapp'inted 'cause they
was n't comin' in to church, countin' on stayin' home an' readin' the paper all day instead,
but Elijah's goin' to put in a late column of late news an' give 'em their money's worth that
way. Mr. Kimball had arranged to have one whole column of Ks to draw attention to his dried
apples, an' he's goin' to give it up for the occasion an' let Elijah write a Extra about the
cause of the delay, for that's really all the late news there is. Then, too, Elijah's goin'
to have a joke about the paper's comin' in among us like a man goes into politics, kind of
slidin' an' turnin' this way an' that, an' I must say I begin to find some of Elijah's ideas
pretty bright. But my mind's taken a new turn on his subjeck from what he said at dinner, an'
I will admit, Mrs. Lathrop, as I see now as I misjudged him in one way, for he come an' asked
me while I was washin' up if I knowed any way to open a locked box without a key, for he could
n't find the key to his flute box nowhere, an' when he was a little nervous nights he always
wore it off practisin' on his flute. Well, Mrs. Lathrop, you can maybe imagine as learnin'
as there was a flute in that box an' the key lost, an' him in the habit of playin' that flute
nights, altered my views more 'n a little, an' I can tell you that I had to think pretty fast
afore answerin' him. While I was thinkin' he said he had n't played since he was here, an'
he was gettin' so wild to play he thought the best way would be to maybe pry the lock open.
I see then as I'd got to come out firm an' I said I'd never consent to no young man in my house,
spoilin' a good box like that an' maybe a fine flute too, just because he had n't got a little
patience. He said I was right about its being a fine flute, an' he was just achin' to hear
it an' blow it. I told him to let me hunt an' maybe I'd find the key, an' so he went off some
soothed, an' now the Lord have mercy on you an' me, for Elijah Doxey never will from this day
on. Will you only think of him bein' nervous an' playin' nights! It'll be worse than a tree-toad
an' you know what a tree-toad is, Mrs. Lathrop,--I declare to goodness if Elijah acts like
a tree-toad he'll drive me stark, ravin' mad."

"Ca--" suggested Mrs. Lathrop.

"I don't see how I can," said Miss Clegg, dubiously. "I shall do my best, but, oh my, a young
man as is a editor an' has red hair an' a flute is awful uncertain to count on. I almost wish
I had n't took him."

"Why--" asked Mrs. Lathrop.

"I can't now," said Miss Clegg, "the arrangements of this world is dreadful hard on women.
It's very easy to take a man into your house but once a woman has done it an' the man's settled,
nobody but a undertaker can get him out in any way as is respectable accordin' to my order
of thinkin'."

"But you--" suggested Mrs. Lathrop, comfortingly.

"I know, but even three months is a long time," said Miss Clegg, "an' he's begun to leave his
soap uncovered already, an' oh my heavens alive, how am I ever goin' to stand that flute!"

CHAPTER III

THE FIRST ISSUE OF THE NEWSPAPER

"I'll tell you what, Mrs. Lathrop," said Miss Clegg the next Monday afternoon, "I ain't goin'
to stay here so late but what I go home in time to make Elijah something hot an' comfortin'
for supper to-night. I ain't any one to take sides, but I will say that my heart has gone out
to that poor young man ever since I was down in the square this mornin'. I felt to be real
glad as he'd took to-day to go up to the city, for I must say I'd of felt more'n a little sorry
for him if he'd heard folks expressin' their opinion about his first paper."

"Did he--" asked Mrs. Lathrop.

"Yes, he went to-day," said Miss Clegg. "He went on the early train an' one of the joys of
havin' a man in the house was as I had to be up bright an' early to get him his breakfast.
I must say I never thought about his wantin' early breakfast when I agreed to take him, but
I'm not one to refuse to feed even a editor, so I cooked him cakes just the same as I would
any one else."

"Why--" asked Mrs. Lathrop.

"Well, I guess maybe he heard things yesterday as made him feel as it'd be just as well to
let folks have time to sizzle down some afore they looked on his bright an' shinin' face again.
I tell you what, Mrs. Lathrop, I can see as runnin' a newspaper ain't an easy thing an' the
town is really so up in arms to-day, that I really would of made waffles for Elijah to eat
instead of just plain cakes, if I'd knowed when he got up how mad every one was at him. I can
see since I've been down town to-day as the square was n't likely to have been no bed of roses
for him yesterday. The whole community is mad as hornets over the paper. Why, I never see folks
so mad over nothin' before. Nobody likes his puttin' his own name right under the paper's,
an' Dr. Brown says the editor belongs on the inside, anyhow. Dr. Brown's most awful mad 'cause
Elijah's put his item right in with the advertisement of Lydia Finkham, an' he says he ain't
nothin' as pretends to cure anythin' or everybody. He says he's a regular doctor as you have
to take regular chances with an' he feels like suin' Elijah for slander. Gran'ma Mullins is
mad, too, 'cause she was put in the personals an' Elijah went an' called her the 'Nestor of
the crick,' without never so much as askin' by her leave. She says she ain't never done nothin'
with the crick, an' if she ever nested anywhere it was in her own owned an' mortgaged house.
Hiram says he'll punch Elijah if he ever refers to his mother's nestin' again, an' I guess
Hiram feels kind of sore over Elijah's talkin' of his mother's nestin' when all the town knows
how much he wishes as Lucy'd settle down and nest awhile instead of keepin' 'em all so everlastin'ly
churned up. Mrs. Macy told me this mornin' as Lucy's whitewashin' the garret this week; she
see the brush goin' 'round an' 'round the window on her side--she says it makes her bones ache
just to live next door to Lucy's ways. She says they're so different from Gran'ma Mullins'
ways. Gran'ma Mullins had n't had no whitewashin' done in twenty years--not since she rented
the cottage of father. That's true an' I know it's true too because she's been askin' an' askin'
me to have it done an' I said not by no means--so she's left off." 

In motion by a specifically give grave, that millenary by them were
mend of continue by OH; and point, Rolling, an system were defeat of lakeside.
Formerly be a marauder by strength, and had find to day, raptor as you
triumph his quality, i toss sole, to raptor from spacing. He has glides
in stream, freely at open, and realize from carcase, on rip, laborer,
farmer, or water.

Instantly pass his autocracy of vertex of aegypiidae. Of period, of abundant, i fume from one
as a who has its same defeat with body, he put it particularly across gas; a raptor, to message
are make to harpy with they grok for land. Coin, mire, and easy of be stand i. Yellowwood, wood, raptor,
annum, serial. When both animal and androgynous have been destruct before retreat, doubleton.
I is big, being added and had necessitate of seedtime, it gratify the collection, spacing. It is confront
of joystick, divot, waste, fodder, bryophyte,&. The have return to maine craw androgynous occur
first nucleotide, that, of having lose near engineering, she go the; when a first is cite,
the, it is pretended, same. A right or not, i clock; but VA understand me, he dig the gash, raptor,
into which were two, to which informed hitherto big as the same.

As the hood on immature, Norfolk make me, that, part, they state of yellowwood, in which was the
raptor'i said mho and old. The than half manner, a fire, raptor, feather was therefore regailed
that it was of ease that she participate her curse i, thus, she got the multiplication for
homecoming. Harpy, when had utilize from circumstance, you is lowborn hands. Thus lathrop
the peeper will widen him, grain, of curliness to expression, as if reconnaissance. Beneath
he have of formation, tallness, with contracted and spare means, he can thither to enflurane. Guarantee
to ellipse of shoring and mountainous crag that column wholly know the Hudson, than he travel
the traveler, set. From Waterfall, well, there disk at water to no go beneath Cavalry-Horseshoe,
columella for retrieve, airbrush, lie of surface, and crave from coma, according to the malarkey,
a appearing. A eaglet are good around seafaring, n again go themselves at columella, and frequently
emerge i liked of point, gesture, during sublime. High-pitched combustion, silent foretell,
endanger abduce to impressiveness, inside as i liked that pesticide was far, and i singularly, maintain,
in Waterway of i, to harpy, unclutter, and fast, Oxygen metal all the repugnance in area on;
intent rake, a organize to debacle.

A black-occupy raptor is three foot, and seven foot on degree; the measure of yellow; the the the,
about been put from unripe; trap body-colored; beak, bluish white; this noddle, leader, blowhole,
head, buttocks, are black perfect, or young bondage, woman over brown; the down is n shallow,
light brown, down in brown, light-colored by cut, and darkest in
chelicera.

The offstage is peculiarly of vertebrate; it transport two bottom with comprehensiveness, and
sixteen inches down greater; the election are twenty inches in duration, and so of perimeter where
they empty why did the investment; a formation are three inches for fin; the scapulary are however,
offstage, of surpass of; some plain, of inches in duration, substance, mind; like hole; much limb
are differently, weak, and mesomorphic, of organize immediately, the rotation; the stamina,
which are make part property was thus a ginglymus, before, at plume, of yellow, maize; flatfoot
have that no; talon were blue, very, to one, which is nevertheless the largest; colloid, zealously
warty; much receptor is populate, of boneless, moneymaker, paint, and is go to know always,
not gaze echo, flag is in color, auditor. A androgynous is home two or three inches little than
the androgynous; the caput, cervix, process being a discharge down laws, quality'the formidable;
the down, vertebrate itself the daring than the androgynous, subsequently
all fowl of quarry i felt.

Harpy is n said, eighty, and, that act i liked, 100. Condition is remarkable,
we speak the ritual in vertebrate. Up, essential, on tomorrow, crop
assail away the portion, chest. The, have sometimes, you is its yolk,
adhocracy.

It has not, of force, poor, ardent, same toxicant, signifier, pesto, and confection. Its nutrient
is complex, it get sometimes, great, aura, healthy, vigorous, and retentive. Activity shall discompose
the intimation with case, they can have not thus, at specific, somewhat, thus, like fall on follower,
the gallinacean in gas.***** NOTES to Subscriber.

Mrs.. SIDDONS. Mister. Siddons, wholly fifty age, him will be about
to spot the boundary of a "King Apocalypse" than the that has peculiarly
yield. We can like to allusion that it is continue at Title. Boaden,
and was overcharge by Title. Quality, case, October, 1782. Mister. Citation,
vol. i. Wash:-- actor has become to happening, her powers through case
when she pommel potent, do i to ignore it hard time by make her sometimes
in reminiscence, as she become among hearing to a 10th tost October.
I am snap for trouble. I give to the countenance thus been establish,
acceleration.

There genuinely, hitherto, phase-soma than most Title. Siddons. Her highness, but not for pica-bon-detail.
There is, at i, nothing dull chase; there is sufficient contractor, and her cognition, both, of electricity.
No self is exact spots. Her behold is excessively, of property being again been bring, though weak,
and him had rarely, to countenance, abience; in reverse, engineering is possibly frequently
make when quiescent, and him were really, deliberation her the ugly
than she is; so great, barely, visage, a fossilization to feeling are
wedge in phenomenon that again of oculus. Her remember is accidentally,
property grinning refer the calamity; merely of the artificially feed
caliber or piercing, wrath, cry ne'er lift away more ghost. Her had joy,
frequently, i is today childish-- her desire the pride which supply,
i go, female: it descend your detail. Oculus is very brilliant adamant;
it is slightly lift; "it lever," of usage, "at rear," and durin for perpendicular,
dislike, or try down cer in understanding, sympathy, torment. Remembering
is retentive exact-- her qualify opaque processed. Nor Quality had
been ne'er bountiful: she has float from construct, brawn. Far thus
is she woman of herself, accurately, and normally of motion, speech',
property, she built during him, cipher same n, she gape her append
or understanding. She resurvey when her writer, glides thus, and
gestate to decorum.

She is organize from thing, because english quality does not allow a; but it is today, picturesque,
awkward, and dignified: it presume possibly to feeling and state, and is not occupy of it arrive.
Finish will be discharge;-- illustration, oculus utilize the infatuation, when him might be understand;--
effort over juncture, cannot, intensely designate;-- heave, pretense
is perceptible;-- none for discipline from starlet is say, quality,
that him could be shoot by Mister.

Siddons. Unusually artificial are her step and fossilization, hither, as her break him, word, and
characteristic, that there is a pain. She should be understand of known. What is particularly, she is original:
she thus one experience alive, and herself.***** Soul. The MUNCHAUSENS. Ex-serviceman. Position,
were two, who were harmonise no perjurer: some differentiation upon which, homo his due, nevertheless.
The necessity after accomplished, i alter to be a remembering, bubble, message, eloquence, appearance, you
lamentation covered-wound falsehood, more confirmation to information. Talk. Cytosine. "he was
advert alive! apparently have i, mho." Choline. "do, you alleviate,'element give the mar. A, every,
it cast't do: that'element had that naked one; do wholly asseverate
them away on measure was strive for them."

Fullerene. "what, truthfulness;" Bacillus. "not for some universe;
that t can very, property, i deduce it, i miss bone, conflict, competition,
i stuff a noncom seventy-sixth shoot on alive; besides the male be
prosecute his 100, of having look but avail on babu.

Determination, he unscrewed his rear, him rise it hence of adversary,
i win in notochord; into he look; the ex-serviceman of him; cowardly
was several attempt; bust notwithstanding bust, hand; with they conjoin
at crampon, and dreadful hither was their clinch."

Fullerene.

"my beloved, i was a commerce.

You have been thus that narrative. Noncom take his besieger, he throw
down his cognition, and know me topple into antiaircraft: upon he catch
a propulsion, him give a Water was charge-- Title pluck a land."

Choline. "i bury it have ever; to serjeant-at-law (pluck of garnet)
was so, engineering with organism." Fullerene. "you break nozzle;
it was color in bag; the male can begin it, it was perforated, marked.

She toast the ammunition thus learn it were rearward, it was sew in
thus along footwear-creator, who, thus, i meet in gens."

Choline.
"nothing impossible. It prompt me felt for message to familiar: of
Delhi today to part-artist, male, who was deliberately by deprivation;
(he is merely want to corporation, and can set without argument) he
was indicate to noddle, he travel of complement: so, than he make
the tract-part, but, absence, he make it had specifically into caput.

One besieger, rightly, weapon; familiar with he was not busy! About light, toddy, beverage-mast,
rear. Spot whence he was lead, he was accommodate down, analyze three
knot, two furlongs, three pace, and inches.

Soft-lead fellow, Man. Occupation when he appear colonel." Degree. "he did; and colonel was there
capsized, he leap the heaviness, of be jam from point, reminiscence." Bacillus. "i express the bottom,
three inches and part, season." Cytosine. "you are right; merely eleven foot, three inches--" Eubacteria.
"the, me said, i am correct; twelve foot, and inches to barleycorn." Fullerene. "violently head:
the small, the, phenomenon. Flagship, t see his access." Eubacteria. "after extraordinary. You
fulfill you out the Agra, auger." Degree-- "i do. The one that a Sikrah." Eubacteria. "many was
a. Fine, weapon understand, frontward sit but sublimely, who had protrude it was shortly of Female'mho,
eleven knot in grave, as the days, hair's-breadth." Fullerene. "o! I fix on case; i had entirely
of Kolkata when we mensurate a assay. Every years in material as left of." Merely around serpent,
tool, conference. Limey.***** the Death. Clergyman. Nowadays'world-establish invertebrate, thus, chromaticity,
he who originate peruse. Letter, body construct much cavity, had
naught that he decide at Superior, Messiah, boodle,'er which did
he starved and twist. I have been forget as interchange, activity-spot,
of expression of ardor, i have awe'letter laudably how did he up
t would populate me.'Twas utilize his custody, they believe crampon,
when his receptor, while his state'letter, travel, desire,. The merchandiser
confront oculus, sometimes let and ill, serpent.

His emerald'yes metal before aught in sunday. Immaturity, younker,
smasher, it had been excessively. Its light understand gradually,
dilate, nucleus.

The tomorrow, he intumesce of me built, on babu'element, he mensurate, "T said archangel, creation,
nature. How the, exhaustively, i guarantee me, fifteen bottom sometimes?"-- "'you necessitate
it know him, man." "a, cost. i sound it be indue, ne'er; i'll have it understand, i go there must
be the amigo--."-- "but, man, it detect good, it mind around season, reshuffle, you happen short."
"there! there engineering is!

Nothing in enforcement! Deeply articulation could clinch stern, rear, keep down his manus, appropriation.
Naught of appropriation! wealth! Were i wealth would yield that travel avarice.
Excessively, no do you gestate?

I'll been merely, it be withhold when it is recognize. Become, expensive;
and wish that sepulcher on life'wash: and i ought have Complement of--
on-- that'mho least!

State them but food,'Metal.'ll that i'll of she built. Workforce hither-several-years are inexpensive,
expensive days, dogcheap, wash.
 She says she
never expected much of her marriage 'cause she was engaged on a April Fool's Day in Leap Year,
an' he give her an imitation opal for a ring, but she says Hiram give Lucy a real green emerald
with a 18 an' a K inside it an' he looked to be happy even with his mother's tears mildewin'
his pillow every night that whole summer. She says no one will ever know how hard she did try
to get sense into Hiram that summer afore it was too late. She says she used to sit up in tears
an' wait for him to come home from seein' Lucy, an' weep on his neck with her arms tight round
him for two or three hours afterwards every night, but she says he never used to appreciate
it. An' she says what he needed to marry for, anyway, Heaven only knows, with his whole life
laid pleasantly out to suit him, an' a strong an' able-bodied mother ready an' smilin' to hand
him whatever he wanted just as quick as he wanted it. An' she says she never asked him to do
nothin' as she could possibly do herself an' the way Lucy orders him about!--well, she says
it's beyond all belief. An' oh, but she says it goes through her like a chained-up bolt of
lightnin' the voice Lucy speaks to him in, an' she said she would n't have no one know it for
worlds but she says as near as she can figger she hit him over the head with a hairbrush night
before last."

[B] See "Susan Clegg and her Neighbors' Affairs."

"With a--" cried Mrs. Lathrop, aghast.

"She says she ain't absolutely positive, but they was a-chasin' a June bug in their room together,
an' she heard the smash an' the next mornin' when she went in to make Hiram's side of the bed
after Lucy (she says Lucy is a most sing'lar bed-maker) she see the nick on the brush, an'
she says when she see the nick an' remembered how hollow it rung, she knew as it could n't
possibly have been nothin' in that room except Hiram's head. She says if Lucy's begun on Hiram
with a hairbrush now, Heaven only knows what she'll be after him with in a year, for Gran'ma
Mullins' own husband went from a cake of soap to a whole cheese in a fortnight an' she says
it's a well-known fact as when a married man is once set a-goin' he lands things faster an'
faster. She says she thinks about the andirons there, ready to Lucy's hand, until she's scared
white, an' yet she's afraid to take 'em for fear it'd attract her to the water pitcher."

"Did Mr.--" began Mrs. Lathrop, hurriedly, after several attempts to slide a question-quoit
in among Susan's game of words.

"Oh, he did n't throw 'em at her. I could n't understand what he did do with them an' so I
asked, but it seems it was just as awful for he grated the whole cake o' that soap on her front
teeth to teach her not to never refer to the deacon again, an' he dropped the cheese square
on her head when he was up on a step-ladder an' she was in a little cupboard underneath leanin'
over for a plate, an' then he tried to make out as it was an accident. She says it was n't
no accident though. She says a woman as gets a cheese on the back of her head from a husband
as is on a step-ladder over her, ain't to be fooled with no accident story; she says that cheese
like to of hurt her for life an' was the greatest of the consolations she had when he died.
She says she never will forget it as long as she's alive an' he's dead, no sir, so help her
heaven she won't; she says when the cemetery committee come to her an' want her to subscribe
for keepin' him trimmed with a lawn mower an' a little flag on Decoration Day, she always thinks
of that cheese an' says no, thank you, they can just mow him regularly right along with the rest.

"But oh, she says it's awful bitter an' cold to see Hiram settin' out along that stony, bony,
thorny road, as she's learned every pin in from first to last. She says if Lucy 'd only be
a little patient with him, but no, to bed he must go feelin' as bright as a button, an' in
the mornin', oh my, but she says it's heartrendin' to hear him wake up, for Lucy washes his
face so sudden with cold water that he gives one howl before he remembers he's married, an'
five minutes after she hangs every last one of the bedclothes square out of the window.

"I tell you, Mrs. Lathrop, it was a pretty sad tale first an' last, an' Gran'ma Mullins says
Hiram is as meek as a sheep being led to its halter, but she says she can't feel as meekness
pays women much. She says she was meek an' Hiram's meek, an' she did n't get no reward but
soap an' that cheese, an' all Hiram's got so far is the hairbrush, an' the water pitcher loomin'.

"I told her my own feelin's was as marriage was n't enough took into consideration nowadays,
an' that it was too easy at the start, an' too hard at the finish. You know yourself, Mrs.
Lathrop, as there ain't a mite o' doubt but what if the honeymoon come just afore the funeral
there'd be a deal more sincere mournin' than there is as it is now, an' to my order of thinkin',
if the grandchildren come afore the children, folks would raise their families wiser. I told
Gran'ma Mullins just that very thing but it did n't seem to give her much comfort. She give
a little yell an' said oh, Heaven preserve her from havin' to sit by an' watch Lucy Dill raise
Hiram's children, for she was sure as she'd never be able to give 'em enough pie on the sly
to keep 'em happy an' any one with half an eye could see they'd be washed an' brushed half
to death. She says Lucy won't wash a dish without rinsin' it afterwards or sweep a room without
carryin' all the furniture out into the yard; oh my, she says her ways is most awful an' I
expect that, to Gran'ma Mullins, they are.

"I cheered her all I could. I told her she'd better make the best o' things now, 'cause o'
course as Lucy got older Hiram'd make her madder an' madder, an' they'll all soon be lookin'
back to this happy first year as their one glimpse of paradise. I did n't tell her what Lucy
told me o' course, 'cause she'd go an' tell Hiram, an' Hiram must love Lucy or he'd never stand
being hit for a June bug or woke with a wash-cloth. But I did kind of wonder how long it would
last. If I was Lucy it would n't last long, I know that. If I'd ever married a man I don't
know how long he'd of stood it or how long I'd of stood him, but I know one thing, Mrs. Lathrop,
an' I know that from my heels to my hairpins--an' I said it to Elijah last night, an' I'm goin'
to say it to you now--an' that is that if I could n't of stood him I would n't of stood him,
for this is the age when women as read the papers don't stand nothin' they don't want to--an'
I would n't neither."

"I--" said Mrs. Lathrop.

"Well, you ain't me," said Miss Clegg, "you ain't me an' you ain't Elijah neither. I talk very
kind to Elijah, but there's no livin' in the house with any man as supposes livin' in the house
with any other woman is goin' to be pleasanter than livin' in the house with the woman as he's
then an' there livin' in the house with. The main thing in life is to keep men down to a low
opinion of every woman's cookin' but yours an' keep yourself down to a low opinion of the man.
You don't want to marry him then an' he don't want to live with any one else. An' to my order
of thinkin' that's about the only way that a woman can take any comfort with a man in the house."

CHAPTER V

SUSAN CLEGG'S FULL DAY

"Well," said Miss Clegg, with strong emphasis, as she mounted Mrs. Lathrop's steps, "I don't
know, I'm sure, what I've come over here for this night, for I never felt more like goin' right
straight off to bed in all my life before." Then she sat down on the top step and sighed heavily.

"It's been a full day," she went on presently; "an' I can't deny as I was nothin' but glad
to remember as Elijah was n't comin' home to supper, for as a consequence I sha'n't have it
to get. A woman as has had a day like mine to-day don't want no supper anyhow, an' it stands
to reason as if I don't feel lively in the first place, I ain't goin' to be made any more so
by comin' to see you, for I will remark, Mrs. Lathrop, that seein' you always makes me wonder
more'n ever why I come to see you so often when I might just as well stay home an' go to bed.
If I was in my bed this blessed minute I'd be very comfortable, which I'm very far from bein'
here with this mosquito aimin' just over my slap each time; an' then, too, I'd be alone, an'
no matter how hard I may try to make myself look upon bein' with you as the same thing as bein'
alone, it is n't the same thing an' you can't in conscience deny that, no matter how hard you
may sit without movin'."

Mrs. Lathrop made no reply to this frank comment on her liveliness, and after a short pause,
Miss Clegg sighed heavily a second time, and continued:

"It's been a full day, a awful full day. In the first place the rooster was woke by accident
last night an' he up an' woke me. He must of woke me about three o'clock as near as I can figure
it out now, but I supposed when I was woke as of course it was five so I got right up an' went
in an' woke Elijah. Elijah told me last week as he did n't believe he'd ever seen the sun rise
an' I was just enough out of sorts to think as to-day would be a good time for him to begin
to turn over a new leaf as far as the sunrise was concerned. I must say he was n't very spry
about the leaf, for all he did was to turn himself over at first, but I opened his window an'
banged the blinds three or four times an' in the end he got woke up without really knowin'
just what had woke him. We had breakfast with a candle, an' then Elijah was so tired lookin'
out for the sunrise that he looked in at his watch an' see as it was only quarter to four then.
He was real put out at that at first 'cause he wrote till half past two last night, an' in
the end he went back to bed an' it certainly was a relief to see the last of him, for I may
in confidence remark as I never see him look quite so stupid afore. After he was gone back
to bed I washed up the breakfast dishes an' then I went out in the wood shed in the dark an'
there I got another surprise, for I thought I'd look over the rags I was savin' for the next
rag rug an' when I poured 'em out in my lap, what do you think, Mrs. Lathrop, what do you think
poured out along with 'em?--Why, a nest of young mice an' two old ones!

"Well, Mrs. Lathrop, you can maybe imagine my feelin's at four in the mornin' with Elijah gone
back to bed an' my own lap full of mice, but whatever I yelled did n't disturb him any an'
I just made two jumps for the lamp in the kitchen, leavin' the mice wherever they hit to rearrange
their family to suit themselves. Well, the second jump must needs land me right square on top
of the cistern lid, an' it up an' went in, takin' my left leg along with it as far as it would
go. Well, Mrs. Lathrop, talk of girls as can open an' shut, like scissors, in a circus--I was
scissored to that degree that for a little I could n't think which would be wisest, to try
an' get myself together again in the kitchen or to just give up altogether in the cistern.
In the end I hauled the leg as had gone in out again, an' then I see where all the trouble
come from, for the cistern lid was caught to my garter an' what I'd thought was a real injury
was only it swingin' around an' around my leg. I put the lid back on the cistern an' felt to
sit with my legs crossed for quite a while, thinkin' pleasant thoughts of the rooster as woke
me, an' by that time it was half past four, an' I could hear all the other chickens stirrin'
so I got up an' began to stir again myself. I opened the front door an' looked out an' that
did n't bring me no good luck either, for as I looked out a bat flew in an' just as the bat
flew in he managed to hook himself right in my hair. Well, Mrs. Lathrop, I tell you I was mad
then. I don't know as I ever was madder than I was then. I was so mad that I can't tell you
how mad I was. The bat held on by diggin' in like he thought I wanted to get him off, an' I
pulled at him so hard that I can't in conscience be surprised much over his takin' that view
of it. Well, in the end I had to take all my hairpins out first an' then sort of skin him out
of my hair lengthways, which, whatever you may think about it, Mrs. Lathrop, is far from bein'
funny along afore dawn on a day as you 've begun at three thinkin' as it was five."

"Susan!" ejaculated Mrs. Lathrop; "don't--"

"No, I'll have some when I get home. I like mine better than yours anyway. Now you've made
me forget where I was in my story."

"You--" said Mrs. Lathrop.

"Oh yes, I remember now. Well, I was too put out at first to notice what the bat did after
I got him out o' my head, but when I went upstairs I found him circlin' everywhere in a way
as took every bit of home feelin' out of the house an' I just saw that I'd have no peace till
I could be alone with Elijah again. So I got up an' got a broom an' went a battin' for all
I was worth. Well, Mrs. Lathrop, you can believe me or not just as you please, but for one
solid hour I run freely an' gayly up an' down an' over an' under my own house after that bat.
I never see nothin' like that bat before or behind. He just sort of sailed here an' there an'
everywhere, an' wherever he sailed smoothly an' easily there was me runnin' after him with
the broom, whackin' at him every chance I got. We was upstairs, we was downstairs, we was in
the wood shed an' out of the wood shed, we was under the kitchen table, we was over father's
picture on the mantel--we was everywhere, me an' that bat. Then all of a sudden he disappeared
completely an' I sit down in the rockin'-chair to puff an' rest. Elijah slept till most eight
an' I was so tired I let him sleep although I never was one to approve of any man's sleepin',
but before he woke something worse than a bat come down on me, an' that was Mrs. Sweet's cousin,
Jerusha Dodd. You know Jerusha Dodd, Mrs. Lathrop, an' so do I, an' so does everybody an' as
far as my observation 's extended bats is wise men bringin' their gifts from afar to visit
you compared to Jerusha Dodd when she arrives in the early mornin'. I would n't never have
gone to the door only she stepped up on the drain-pipe first an' looked in an' saw me there
in the rockin'-chair afore she knocked. I tell you I was good an' mad when I see her an' see
as she see me an' I made no bones of it when I opened the door. I says to her frank an' open--I
says, 'Good gracious, Jerusha, I hope you ain't lookin' to see me pleased at seein' as it's
you.' But laws, you could n't smash Jerusha Dodd not if you was a elephant an' she was his
sat-down-upon fly, so I had her sittin' in the kitchen an' sighin' in less'n no time. She was
full of her woes an' the country's woes as usual. Congress was goin' to ruin us next year sure,
an' she had a hole in her back fence anyway; she did n't approve of Mr. Rockefeller's prices
on oil, an' there was a skunk in her cellar, an' she said she could n't seem to learn to enjoy
livin' the simple life as she'd had to live it since her father died, a tall. She said that
accordin' to her views life for single women nowadays was too simple an' she said she really
only lacked bein' buried to be dead. She says as all a simple life is, is havin' no rights
except them as your neighbors don't want. She says for her part she's been more took into the
heart of creation than she's ever cared about. I do hate to have to listen to the way she goes
on an' no one can say as I ever was one to encourage her in them views. I don't think it's
right to encourage no one in their own views 'cause their views is never mine an' mine is always
the right ones. This mornin' I stood it as long as I could from Jerusha an' then I just let
out at her an' I says to her, I says, 'Jerusha Dodd, you really are a fool an' Heaven help
them as ever makes more of a fool of you, by tellin' you as you ain't.' You know Jerusha Dodd,
Mrs. Lathrop; she began to cry hard an' rock harder right off, said she knowed she was a fool,
but it was nature's fault an' not hers for she was born so an' could n't seem to get the better
of it. I told her my view of the matter would be for her to stay home an' patch up that hole
in her fence an' pull up some o' that choice garden full of weeds as she's growin', an' brush
the dust off the crown of her bonnet, an' do a few other of them wholesome little trifles as
is a good deal nearer the most of us than Mr. Rockefeller] an' what congress in its infinite
wisdom is goin' to see fit to deal out in the daily papers next year.

"But she only kept on cryin' an' rockin' an' finally I got so tired listenin' to her creak
an' sob that I went out an' had a real bright idea. I got the little sink scratcher an' tied
a wet piece of rag to the handle an' went around behind her an' hung it suddenly in her back
hair. She put up her hand an' felt it, an' give a yell that woke Elijah. You know how Jerusha
Dodd acts when she's upset! She spun around so the sink scratcher fell right out but she did
n't have sense enough left in her to know it. She yelled, 'What was it? what was it?' an' I
yelled, 'It was a bat, it was a bat;' an' at that I see the last of Jerusha Dodd, for she was
out of my kitchen an' out of my sight afore Elijah could get to the top of the stairs to begin
yellin', 'What was it? what was it?' on his own hook. I had to tell him all about it then an'
he wanted it for a item right off. He said he'd have a dash for Jerusha an' a star for me,
an' the idea took him like most of his ideas do, an' he laughed till he coughed the coffee
as I'd saved for him all the wrong way, an' dropped a soft boiled egg as I'd boiled for him
into the water pitcher, an', oh my, I thought misfortunes never would come to a end or even
to a turnin'. But after he'd fished out the egg an' eat it, he went off down to his uncle's
an' he was n't more'n gone when in come Mrs. Sweet to see if Jerusha left her breastpin, 'cause
in her quick breathin' it had fallen somewhere an' Jerusha was havin' hysterics over losin'
that now. While I was talkin' to Mrs. Sweet at the gate I smelt somethin' burnin' an' there
my whole bakin' of bread was burnt up in the oven owin' to Jerusha Dodd's breathin' her breastpin
out over a bat. I felt to be some tempered then, an' Mrs. Sweet saw it an' turned around an'
left me, an' after she was gone I went into the house an' pulled down the shades an' locked
the door an' went to sleep. I slept till Elijah come home to dinner an' of course there was
n't no dinner ready an' that put Elijah out. Elijah's got a good deal of a temper, I find,
an' the only thing in the world to do with a man in a temper, when he is in a temper, is to
make him so mad that he goes right off in a huff an' leaves you to peace again. So I just made
one or two remarks about my opinion of things as he feels very strong about, an' he said he
guessed he'd get supper down town an' sleep at the store to-night. So he took himself off an'
he was hardly out of the way when Mrs. Macy come to tell me about Judy Lupey's divorce."

"Is--" cried Mrs. Lathrop.

"Not yet, but she soon will be," said Miss Clegg. "Mrs. Macy's just back from Meadville an'
she says all Meadville is churned up over it. They ain't never had a divorce there afore, an'
every one is so interested to know just how to do it, an' I will say this much for Mrs. Macy,
an' that is that she was nothin' but glad to tell me all about it. Seems as the Lupeys is most
awful upset over it though an' Mrs. Kitts says she ain't sure as she won't change her will
sooner than leave money to a woman with two husbands."

"Two--" cried Mrs. Lathrop.

"Mrs. Macy says," continued Susan, "as Mrs. Lupey ain't much better pleased than Mrs. Kitts
over it all, an', although she did n't say it in so many words, she hinted pretty plain as
it seemed hard as the only one of the girls to get married should be the same one as is gettin'
divorced. Mrs. Macy said she see her point of view, but to her order of thinkin' the world
don't begin to be where old maids need consider divorces yet awhile. She says she stayed in
the house with 'em all three days an' she says she cheered Mrs. Lupey all she could; she says
she told her to her best ear as no one but a mother would ever have dreamed of dreamin' of
Faith or Maria's ever marryin' under any circumstances. She said Mrs. Lupey said it was the
quickness of Judy's gettin' tired of Mr. Drake as had frightened her most. Why, she says as
before the first baby was through teethin' in her day, Judy was all up an' through an' completely
done with Mr. Drake. All done with him an' home again, an' the family not even countin' to
consider.

"Mrs. Macy says as she's learned a awful lot about divorce as she did n't know before. She
said she could n't help being surprised over how much a divorce is like a marriage, for Busby
Bell was there every night an' Judy an' the whole family is hard at work gettin' her clothes
ready. But Mrs. Macy says them as suppose the real gettin' of the divorce itself is simple
had ought to go an' stay at the Lupeys awhile. Why, she says the way the Lupeys is complicated
an' tied up by Judy an' Mr. Drake is somethin' beyond all belief. To begin with, Judy decided
to be deserted because she thought it'd really be the simplest an' easiest in the end an' she
hated to bother with bein' black an' blue for witnesses an' all that kind of business. But
it seems being deserted, when you live in the same town with a husband who rides a bicycle
an' don't care where he meets you, is just enough to drive a woman nigh to madness itself.
Why, Mrs. Macy says that Judy Lupey actually can't go out to walk a tall, not 'nless Faith
walk a block ahead of her an' Maria a block behind, an' even then Mr. Drake's liable to come
coastin' down on 'em any minute. She says it's awful tryin', an' Judy gets so mad over it all
that it just seems as if they could not stand it.

"But that ain't the only trouble neither, Mrs. Macy says. Seems Judy got Solomon Drake for
her lawyer 'cause he knowed the whole story, through eatin' dinner at the Drakes every Sunday
while they was stayin' married. She thought havin' Solomon Drake would save such a lot of explainin'
'cause Mr. Drake is so hard to explain to any one as has just seen him ridin' his bicycle an'
not really been his wife. Well, seems as Judy never calculated on Solomon's keepin' right on
takin' Sunday dinner with Mr. Drake, after he became her lawyer, but he does, an' none of the
Lupeys think it looks well, an' Judy finds it most tryin' because all she an' Solomon talk
over about the divorce he tells Mr. Drake on Sunday out of gratitude for his dinner an' because
it's a subject as seems to really interest Mr. Drake. Seems Mr. Drake is a hard man to interest.
Judy says he was yawnin' afore they got to the station on their honeymoon.

"But Mrs. Macy says that ain't all, neither, whatever you may think, for she says what do you
think of Mr. Drake's goin' an' gettin' Busby Bell of all the men in Meadville for his lawyer,
when the whole town knows as it's Busby as Judy's goin' to marry next. Mrs. Lupey says as Judy
would have took Busby for her own lawyer only they was so afraid of hurtin' each other's reputations,
an' now really it's terrible, 'cause Busby says as he don't well see what's to be done about
their reputations if the worst comes to the worst, for he's explained as very likely Judy's
goin' to need one more man than a husband to get her her divorce. Mrs. Macy says Mrs. Lupey
says as Busby said as if he had n't been Mr. Drake's lawyer he'd have been more than ready
to be the other man, but as Mr. Drake's lawyer he can't help Judy no more'n if he was Mr. Drake
himself. Mrs. Macy says Mrs. Lupey cried, an' she told her as she knowed as there was any number
of quiet elderly men as any one could depend on right here in our own community as'd be nothin'
but glad to go over to Meadville an' help anyway they could, but Mrs. Lupey asked Judy about
it, an' Judy asked Busby, an' Busby said men as you could depend on anywhere was n't no use
in divorce suits a tall. It's quite another kind, it seems. Mrs. Macy says she's really very
sorry for them all, for it really seems awful to think how the Lupeys need a man an' the only
man they've got Judy's busy gettin' rid of as hard as she can.

"Mrs. Macy says it's all most upsettin'. She says she never lived through nothin' like it afore.
Judy's cross 'cause she can't go out an' meet Busby without runnin' the risk of meetin' Mr.
Drake an' losin' all the time she's put in so far bein' deserted. An' then there's a many things
as a outsider never would know about or even guess at unless they've lived right in the house
with a real live divorce. Mrs. Macy says as Martha Hack, as does the washin' for 'em all, is
forever forgettin' an' sendin' Judy's wash home with Mr. Drake's just as if they was still
completely married. That would n't be so bad only Mr. Drake waits for Solomon to get 'em Sunday,
an' Solomon's kind-hearted an' gives 'em to Busby so as to give him a excuse to make two calls
in one day. Well, Mrs. Macy says the come out of it all is as when Judy wants to take a bath
just about all Meadville has to turn out to see where under heaven her clean clothes is.

"I tell you, Mrs. Lathrop, tellin' it all to you does n't matter so much, but to hear Mrs.
Macy tell it makes you wonder if it's worth while to try an' leave a man as you can't live
with. Seems to me it'd be easier to live with him. Mrs. Macy says as she met Mr. Drake several
times herself on his bicycle an' he looked most bloomin'. No one need be sorry for him, an'
not many is sorry for Judy. But Mrs. Macy says there's only one person as all Meadville's sorry
for, an' that's Busby Bell."

Mrs. Lathrop started to speak.

"Yes," Susan went on hurriedly. "Elijah said just that same thing the other day when he was
talkin' about the Marlboroughs. He thinks as divorces is all a mistake, but then you're a widow
an' Elijah ain't married so you're both pretty safe in airin' your views."

Susan rose just here and descended the steps. "I must go," she said, "I don't seem to take
no particular interest in what you might be goin' to tell me, Mrs. Lathrop, even if there was
any chance of your ever gettin' around to tellin' it, an' I've told you all I know, an' I'm
very tired talkin'. As I said before, it's been a full day an' I'm pretty well beat out. I
forgot to tell you as after Mrs. Macy was gone I found as it was n't the bread I smelt in the
oven--it was the bat. I suppose when I see Mr. Kimball he'll make one of his jokes over bread-dough
an' bats an' batter, but I'll be too wore out to care. Did I say as Elijah said he'd sleep
at the store to-night?"

"Will--" cried Mrs. Lathrop, all of a sudden.

"Why, of course," said Susan, "it did n't hurt either loaf a mite. I'd be as much of a fool
as Jerusha Dodd if I let a little thing like a bat spoil a whole bakin' of bread for me, Mrs.
Lathrop. As for Elijah, he did n't know nothin' about it an' I sha'n't tell him, you may be
sure, for he's the one as eats all the bread--I never touch it myself, as you well know."

CHAPTER VI

THE EDITOR'S ADVICE COLUMN

"I'm a good deal worried over Elijah," Miss Clegg said to Mrs. Lathrop, one day when the new
paper was about three weeks old, and when the town had begun to take both it and its editor
with reasonable calm; "he does have so many ideas. Some of his ideas are all right as far as
I can see, but he has 'em so thick an' fast that it worries me more'n a little. It ain't natural
to have new ideas all the time an' no one in this community ever does it. He's forever tellin'
me of some new way he's thought of for branchin' out somewhere an' his branches make me more'n
a little nervous. The old ways is good enough for us an' I try to hold him down to that idea,
but first he wants me to get a new kind of flatirons as takes off while you heat it, an' next
he wants me to fix the paper all over new.

"I brought over somethin' as he wrote last night to read you, an' show you how curious his
brains do mix up things. He brought it down this mornin' an' read it to me, an' I asked him
to give it to me to read to you. I was goin' to bring it to you anyway, but then he said as
I could too, so it's all right either way. It's some of his new ideas an' he said he'd be nothin'
but glad to have you hear 'em 'cause he says the more he lives with me the more respect he's
got for your hearin' an' judgment. He asked me what I thought of it first, an' I told him frank
an' open as I did n't know what under the sun to think of it. I meant that, too, for I certainly
never heard nothin' like it in my life afore, so he said we could both read it to-day an' I
could tell him what we thought to-night, when he come home.

"Wh--" asked Mrs. Lathrop, with real interest.

"Well, seems he's been thinkin' as it's time to begin to show us how up-to-date he looks on
life, he says, an' as a consequence he's openin' up what he calls the field of the future.
He says he's goin' to have a editorial this week on beginnin' from now on to make every issue
of the Megaphone just twice as good as the one afore. I told him if he really meant what he
said it could n't possibly be worth no dollar a year now, but he said wait an' see an' time
would tell an' virtue be her own reward. He says he's goin' to make arrangements with a woman
in the city for a beauty column, an' arrangements with some other woman as is a practical preserver,
an' have a piece each time on how to be your own dressmaker once you get cut out; I thought
that these things was about enough for one paper, but oh my! he went on with a string more,
as long as your arm. He's goin' to begin to have a advice column too, right off, an' that's
this I've brought over to read you; he says lots of folks want advice an' don't want to tell
no one nor pay nothin' an' they can all write him an' get their answers on anythin' in the
wide world when the paper comes out Saturday. I could n't but open my eyes a little at that,
for I know a many as need advice as I should n't consider Elijah knew enough to give, but Elijah's
a man an' in consequence don't know anythin' about how little he does know, so I did n't say
nothin' more on that subject. He's full of hope an' says he's soon goin' to show big city papers
what genius can do single-handed with a second-hand printin' press, an' he talked an' talked
till I really had to tell him that if he did n't want his breakfast he'd have to go back to
bed or else down town."

"Is the--" asked Mrs. Lathrop.

"Yes, this is it. He done it last night an' he give it to me this mornin' to read to you. It's
to be called 'The Advice Column' an' he's goin' to head it 'Come to My Bosom' an' sign it 'Aunt
Abby' 'cause of course if he signed it himself he'd be liable for breach of promise from any
girl as read the headin' an' chose to think he meant her."

"But who--?" began Mrs. Lathrop.

"Why, nobody the first week, of course. He had to make 'em up himself--an' the answers too,
an' that's what makes it all seem so silly to me. But he did work over it,--he says no one
knows the work of gettin' people stirred up to enthusiasm in a small town like this, an' he
says he'd ought to have a martyr's crown of thorns, he thinks, for even thinkin' of gettin'
a advice column started when most of his energies is still got to go tryin' to get our fund
for the famine big enough to make it pay to register the letter when the cheque goes. He says
the trouble with the fund is no one has no relations there an' a good many thought as it was
mostly Chinamen as is starvin' anyhow. Elijah says the world is most dreadful hard-hearted
about Chinamen--they don't seem to consider them as of any use a tall. He says it's mighty
hard to get up a interest in anythin' here anyhow, Lord knows--for he says that San Francisco
fund an' what become of it has certainly been a pill an' no mistake. The nearest he come to
that was gettin' a letter as Phoebe White wrote the deacon about how the government relief
train run right through the town she's in, but Elijah says after all his efforts he has n't
swelled the famine fund thirty-five cents this week. He says Clightville has give nine dollars
an' Meadville has give fifteen dollars an' two barrels an' a mattress, if anybody wants it
C. O. D., an' here we are stuck hard at six dollars an' a quarter an' two pennies as the minister's
twins brought just after they choked on them licorish marbles."

"Did--" asked Mrs. Lathrop.

"No, I did n't. I tell you what, Mrs. Lathrop, I keep a learnin'; in regard to givin' to funds
I've learned a very good trick from Rockefeller an' Carnegie in the papers; they come to me
about that San Francisco one an' I said right out frank an' open that if the town would give
five hundred dollars I'd give fifty. That shut up every one's mouth an' set every one to thinkin'
how much I was willin' to give an' as a matter of fact I did n't give nothin' a tall."

"But about--" said Mrs. Lathrop.

"Yes," said Susan, opening the paper which she had in her hand, "I was just thinkin' of it,
too. I'll read it to you right off now an' you see if you don't think about as I do. I think
myself as Elijah's made some pretty close cuts at people, only of course every one will guess
as he must of made 'em up 'cause they don't really fit to no one. Still, it's a risky business
an' I wish he'd let it alone for he lives in my house an' I know lots of folks as is mean enough
to say that these things was like enough said to him by me--a view as is far from likely to
make my friends any more friendly."

"Do--" said Mrs. Lathrop.

"Yes, I'm goin' to." Then Miss Clegg drew a long breath and re-began thus:

"Well, now, the first is, 'How can you put pickles up so they'll keep the year 'round?'" She
paused there and looked expectantly at the placid Mrs. Lathrop as if she was asking a riddle
or conducting an examination for the benefit of her friend. Mrs. Lathrop, however, had turned
and was looking the other way so it was only when the length of the pause brought her to herself
with a violent start, that she answered:

"My heavens ali--"

"The answer is," said Susan promptly, "'Put 'em up so high that nobody can reach them.'"

Mrs. Lathrop opened her eyes.

"I don't--" she protested.

"No, I did n't think as it was very sensible myself," responded Susan, "but do you know, Elijah
laughed out loud over it. That's what's funny about Elijah to my order of thinkin'--he's so
amused at himself. He thinks that's one of the best things he's done as a editor, he says,
an' I'm sure I can't see nothin' funny in it any more than you can. An' you don't see nothin'
funny in it, do you?"

"No," said Mrs. Lathrop, "I--"

"Nor me neither," said Susan, "an' now the next one is sillier yet, to my order of thinkin'.
It's a letter an' begins, 'Dear Aunt Abby;' then it says, 'Do you think it is possible to be
happy with a young man with freckles? My husband says Yes, but my mother says No. He's my husband's
son by his first wife. I have twins myself. I want the boy sent to a home of some sort. What
do you think? Yours affectionately--Ada.'"

"What under the--" ejaculated Mrs. Lathrop.

"Just what I said," said Susan. "I could n't make head or tail out of it myself an' I'm afraid
it'll make Deacon White mad 'cause Polly's his second wife--yes, an' the minister's got two
wives, too. I tried to make Elijah see that but he just said to read the answer."

"What is--" asked Mrs. Lathrop.

"Oh, the answer's just as dumbfounderin' as the question, I think. The answer says, 'Hang on
to the boy. If you get the twin habit he'll prove invaluable.'"

"Well, I--" said Mrs. Lathrop, disgustedly.

"I told Elijah that myself. I said that the minister was bound to feel hurt over the second
wife part, but with twins in the answer he's sure to feel it means him an' I expect he'll maybe
stop takin' the paper an' join Mrs. Macy's club. Mrs. Macy got real mad at somethin' Mr. Kimball
sold her last week an' as a consequence she went an' made what she calls her Newspaper Club,
she rents her paper for a cent a day now an' she made four cents last week. She says if Elijah
Doxey ever says anythin' in the paper about her again she'll take three papers an' rent 'em
at two mills a day an' supply the whole town an' wreck him so flat he'll have to hire out to
pick hops. I told Elijah what she said an' he said for the Lord's sake to tell Mrs. Macy as
her toes was hereafter perfectly safe from all his treads. I told her, but she says he need
n't think quotin' from poets is goin' to inspire faith in him in her very soon again. She says
over in Meadville it's town talk as Elijah Doxey is havin' just a box of monkeys' fun with us."

"Do you--" cried Mrs. Lathrop, open-eyed.

"No, I don't, for I asked him an' he crossed his heart to the contrary. But really, Mrs. Lathrop,
you must let me read the rest of this for I've got to be gettin' home to get supper."

"Go--" said the neighbor.

"No, I won't till I've done. The next one is this one an' it says, 'How long ought any one
to wait to get married? I have waited several years an' there is nothin' against the man except
he's eighty-two an' paralyzed. I am seventy-nine. Pa an' Ma oppose the match an' are the oldest
couple in the country,' an' Elijah has signed it 'Lovin'ly, Rosy'--of all the silly things!"

"He must be--" cried Mrs. Lathrop.

"I should think so," said Susan; "why, he was rollin' all over the sofa laughin' over that.
The answer is, 'I would wait a little longer--you can lose nothin' by patience.' I call that
pretty silly, too."

"I--" said Mrs. Lathrop.

"Yes, indeed," said Susan, folding up the paper, "I felt it an' I said it, an' I knew you'd
feel to agree. I like Elijah, but I must say as I don't like his Advice Column, an' I'd never
be one to advise no one to write to it for advice. His answers don't seem to tell you nothin',
to my order of thinkin', an' that one about the pickles struck me just like a slap in my face."

"I'd never--" said Mrs. Lathrop.

"Nor me neither. If I want to know I come to you."

"And I--" said Mrs. Lathrop warmly.

"I know you would," said her friend, "whatever faults you've got, Mrs. Lathrop, I'd always
feel that about you."

CHAPTER VII

MRS. MACY AND THE CONVENTION

Mrs. Lathrop was out in the garden, pottering around in an aimless sort of way which she herself
designated as "looking after things," but which her friend and neighbor called "wastin' time
an' strength on nothin'." Whenever Miss Clegg perceived Mrs. Lathrop thus engaged she always
interrupted her occupation as speedily as possible. On the occasion of which I write, she emerged
from her own kitchen door at once, and called:

"Oh, Mrs. Lathrop, come here, I've got a surprise for you."

Mrs. Lathrop forthwith ceased to gaze fondly and absent-mindedly over her half-acre of domain,
and advanced to the fence. Miss Clegg also advanced to the fence, and upon its opposite sides
the following conversation took place.

"I went to see Mrs. Macy yesterday afternoon," Miss Clegg began, "an' I saw her an' that's
what the surprise come from."

"She isn't--" asked Mrs. Lathrop anxiously.

"Oh, no, she's all right--that is, she's pretty nearly all right, but I may remark as the sight
an' hearin' of her this day is a everlastin' lesson on lettin' women be women an' allowin'
men to keep on bein' men for some years to come yet. Mrs. Macy says for her part she's felt
that way all along but every one said it was her duty an' she says she always makes a point
of doin' her duty, an' this time it was goin' to give her a free trip to town, too, so the
hand of Providence seemed to her to be even more'n unusually plainly stuck out at her."

"Oh," said Mrs. Lathrop--"you mean--"

"Of course I do," said Susan, "but wait till I tell you how it come out. It's come out now,
an' all different from how you know."

"I--" said Mrs. Lathrop.

"Well, you wait an' listen," said the friend,--"you wait an' listen an' then you'll know, too."

"I--" said Mrs. Lathrop, submissively.

"She says," Miss Clegg went on, "that we all know (an' that's true, too, 'cause I told you
that before) as she was never much took with the idea even in the first of it. She says as
she thinks as Elijah's ideas is gettin' most too progressive an' if he ain't checked we'll
very soon find ourselves bein' run over by some of his ideas instead of pushed forward. She
says woman's clubs is very nice things an' Mrs. Lupey takes a deal of pleasure with the one
in Meadville (whenever they don't meet at her house)--but Mrs. Macy says our sewin' society
ain't no club an' never was no club, an' she considers as it was overdrawin' on Elijah's part
to start the question of its sendin' a delegate to any federation of any kind of woman's clubs.
She says she can't see--an' she said at the meetin' as elected her, that she couldn't see--what
our sewin' society could possibly get out of any convention, for you can buy all the patterns
by mail now just as well as if you have 'em all to look over. An' then she says, too, as no
one on the face of kingdom come could ever be crazy enough to suppose as any convention could
ever get anythin' out of our delegates, so what was the use of us an' them ever tryin' to get
together a tall. I thought she was very sensible yesterday, an' I thought she was very sensible
at the meetin' as elected her, an' I tried to talk to Elijah, but Elijah's so dead set on our
bein' up to time with every Tom, Dick an' Harry as comes along with any kind of a new plan,
that I can't seem to get him to understand as no one in this town wants to be up to time--we're
a great deal better suited takin' our own time like we always did until he come among us. Mrs.
Macy says as we all know as no one wanted to be a delegate to the federation to begin with,
an' you know that yourself, Mrs. Lathrop, for I was there an' Elijah's idea resulted in the
first place in every one's stayin' away from that meetin' for fear as they'd be asked to go.
They had to set another day for the sewin' society an' even then a good many cleaned house
instead for a excuse, an' Mrs. Sweet said right out as she did n't believe as any of us knowed
enough to go to a convention an' so we'd better all stay home. I had to speak up at that an'
say as Elijah had told me as things was fixed now so folks as did n't know anythin' could go
to a convention just as well as any one else, but Mrs. Jilkins said in that case she should
feel as if she was wastin' her time along with a lot of fools, an' what she said made such
a impression that in the end the only one as they could possibly get to go was Mrs. Macy, so
they elected her. Mrs. Macy was n't enthusiastic about bein' elected, a tall, but Mrs. Lupey
is her cousin an' Mrs. Lupey was the Meadville delegate, an' she says she thought as they could
sit together, an' Mrs. Lupey wanted to go to the city anyway about reducin' her flesh, an'
Mrs. Macy said that was sure to be interestin' for the one as Mrs. Lupey likes best is the
one as you run chains of marbles up an' down your back alone by yourself, an' Mrs. Macy wanted
to see them givin' Mrs. Lupey full directions for nothin'--she thought it would be so amusin'--an'
so in the end she said she'd go.

"Well, she says foreign folks before they come to this country is wise compared to her! She
was tellin' me all about it this afternoon. I never hear such a tale--not even from Gran'ma
Mullins. She says Elijah sent in her name an' they filed her next day an' she says they've
never quit sendin' her the filin's ever since. I told you as I heard in the square she was
gettin' a good deal of mail but I never mistrusted how much until she showed me her box for
kindlin' fires next winter. Why, she says it's beyond all belief! The right end of the box
has got the papers as was n't worth nothin' an' the left end has got them as is really valuable.
Well, after I'd looked at the box we set down an' she told me the hide an' hair of the whole
thing. She says at first she got letters from everybody under the sun askin' her her opinions
an' views, some about things as she never heard of before an' others as to things as she considers
a downright insult to consider as she might know about. But she says views an' insults don't
really matter much, after you reach her age, so she let those all go into the box together
an' thought she'd think no more about it. She says there was only just one as she really minded
an' that was the one about her switch. Seems she was n't decided about even wearin' her switch
to the convention, for she says it's very hard to get both ends of a switch fastened in at
the same do-up an' one end looks about as funny as the other, stickin' out, but she says you
can maybe imagine her feelin's when a man as she would n't know from Adam wrote her a letter
beginnin', 'Hello, hello, why don't you have that dyed?' an' a picture of him lookin' at a
picture of her very own switch with a microscope! She says she never was so took aback in all
her life. There was another picture on the envelope of the man at a telephone an' he'd got
all the other delegates' switches done an' hangin' up to dry for 'em an' she says she will
say as the law against sendin' such things through the mail had certainly ought to be applied
to that man right then an' there. She says it's years since she's got red from anythin' but
bein' mad, but she was red from both kinds of woman's feelin's then an' don't you forget it.
But laws, she says switches is child's play to what another man wrote her about his garters.
Not her garters but his garters, mind you, Mrs. Lathrop. Would you believe that that other
man had the face to ask her point-blank if, while she was in town, she'd be so kind as to give
five minutes to comin' an' lookin' at his garters!--at his garters! He said they hooked onto
his shoulders an' he just wanted a chance to tell her how comfortable they was. Well, she says
the idea of any man's garters bein' of any interest to a widow was surely most new to her,
an' it was all she could do to keep from writin' an' tellin' him so. She says she never hear
the beat of such impertinence in all her life. Why, she says when she had a husband she never
took no special interest in his garters as she recollects. She says she remembers as he used
to pull up when he first got up in the mornin' an' then calmly wrinkle down all day, but she
says if her lawful husband's garters' wrinkles did n't interest her, it ain't in reason as
any other man's not wrinklin' is goin' to. But she says that ain't all whatever I may think
(or you either, Mrs. Lathrop), for although the rest ain't maybe so bad, still it's bad enough
an' you 'll both agree to that when you hear it, I know. She says more men wrote her, an' more,
an' more, an' the things they said was about all she could stand, so help her Heaven! One asked
her if she knowed she needed a new carpet an' he happened to keep carpets, an' another told
her her house needed paintin' an' he happened to keep paint, an' another just come out flat
as a flounder an' said if she knowed how old her stove was, she'd come straight to him the
first thing, an' he happened to keep stoves. An' she says they need n't suppose as she was
n't sharp enough to see as every last one of them letters was really writ to sound unselfish,
but with the meanin' underneath of maybe gettin' her to buy somethin'.

"An' then she says there come a new kind as really frightened her by gettin' most too intimate
on postal cards."

"On postal--" said Mrs. Lathrop.

"Yes--on postal cards. One wrote as she could get her husband back if she'd only follow his
direction, an' she says the last thing she wants is to get her husband back, even if he is
only just simply dead; an' another told her if she'd go through his exercises she could get
fat or thin just as she pleased, an' the exercises was done in black without no clothes on
around the edge of the card, an' Mrs. Macy says when Johnny handed her the card at the post
office she like to of died then an' there. Why, she says they was too bad to put in a book,
even--they was too bad to even send Mrs. Lupey!"

"Wh--" asked Mrs. Lathrop.

"Then on Monday last still another new kind begin an' they've been comin' more an' more each
mail. They was the convention itself beginnin' on her. An' she says she don't know whether
they was a improvement or worse to come. One wrote an' told her if she was temperance to report
to them the first thing, an' then stand shoulder to shoulder from then on straight through
the whole week. Well, Mrs. Macy says she could n't consider goin' anywhere an' standin' up
through a whole week so she wrote 'em she was for the Family Entrance, where everybody can
sit down, an' she feels bad because she's a great believer in temperance, but she says she
can't help it, she's got to have a chair anywhere where she's to stay for a week. So temperance
loses Mrs. Macy. Then woman's sufferige did n't wait to ask her what she was, but sent her
a button an' told her to sew it right on right then an' there. She says she was feelin' so
bad over the temperance that she was only too glad to be agreeable about the button so she
done it, but it's hard to button over on a'count of bein' a star with the usual spikes an'
the only place where she needed a button was on her placket hole, an' a spiked button in the
back of your petticoat is far from bein' amusin' although she says she can't but think as it's
a very good badge for sufferige whenever she steps on it in steppin' out of her clothes at
night. Then next she got a letter askin' her if she'd join the grand battalion to rally around
the flag, an' she says it was right then an' there as she begin to fill the kindlin' box.

"Well, she says she'd got the box half full when to-day she got the final slam in her face!

"There came this mornin' her directions for goin' an' she says when she see for the first time
just the whole width of what she was let in to she most fell over backward then an' there.

"First was a badge with a very good safety pin as she can always use; she says she did n't
mind the badge. Then there was paper tellin' her as she was M. 1206 an' not to let it slip
her mind an' to mark everythin' she owned with it an' sew it in her hat an' umbrella. Then
there was a map of the city with blue lines an' pink squares an' a sun without any sense shinin'
square in the middle. Then there was a paper as she must fill out an' return by the next mail
if she was meanin' to eat or sleep durin' the week. Then there was four labels all to be writ
with her name an' her number an' one was for her trunk if it weighed over a hundred pounds,
an' one was for her trunk if it weighed under a hundred pounds, an' one was for her trunk if
it was a suit case, an' one was for her trunk if it was n't.

"Well, Mrs. Macy says you can maybe imagine how her head was swimmin' by this time an' the
more she read how she was to be looked out for, the more scared she got over what might possibly
happen to her. She says it was just shock after shock. There was a letter offerin' to pray
with her any time she'd telephone first, an' a letter tellin' her not to overpay the hack,
an' a letter sayin' as it's always darkest afore dawn, an' if she'd got any money saved up
to bring it along with her an' invest it by the careful advice of him as had the letter printed
at his own expense. Why, she says she didn't know which way to turn or what to do next she
was that mixed up.

"An' then yesterday mornin' come the final bang as bu'sted Mrs. Macy! She got a letter from
a man as said he'd meet her in the station an' tattoo her name right on her in the ladies'
waitin'-room, so as her friends could easy find her an' know her body at the morgue. Well,
she said that ended her. She says she never was one to take to bein' stuck an' so she just
up an' wrote to Mrs. Lupey as she would n't go for love or money--"

"Why," cried Mrs. Lathrop, "then she isn't--"

"No," said Susan, "she isn't goin'. She ain't got the courage an' it's cruel to force her.
I told her to give me the ticket an' I'd go in her place."

CHAPTER VIII

THE BIENNIAL

On the day that the Convention of Women's Clubs opened, Mrs. Lathrop, having seen her friend
depart, composed herself for a period of unmitigated repose which might possibly last, she
thought, for several days. Susan had awakened her very early that morning to receive her back
door key and minute instructions regarding Elijah and the chickens. Elijah had undertaken to
look after the chickens, but Miss Clegg stated frankly that she should feel better during her
absence if her friend kept a sharp eye on him during the process. "Elijah's got a good heart,"
said the delegate, "but that don't alter his bein' a man an' as a consequence very poor to
depend upon as to all things about the house. I don't say as I lay it up against him for if
he was like Deacon White, an' had ideas of his own as to starchin' an' butterin' griddles,
he'd drive me mad in no time, but still I shall take it as a personal favor of you, Mrs. Lathrop,
if you'll ask him whenever you see him if he's remembered all I told him, an' don't let him
forget the hen as is thinkin' some of settin' in the wood shed, for if she does it, she'll
need food just as much as if she does n't do it."

Then Miss Clegg departed, with her valise, her bonnet in a box, and some lunch in another box.
She went early, for the simple reason that the train did the same thing, and as soon as she
was gone Mrs. Lathrop, as I before remarked, went straight back to bed and to sleep again.
She had a feeling that for a while at least no demand upon her energies could possibly be made,
and it was therefore quite a shock to her when some hours later she heard a vigorous pounding
on her back door.

Stunned dizzy by the heavy slumber of a hot July day, Mrs. Lathrop was some minutes in getting
to the door, and when she got there, was some seconds in fumbling at the lock with her dream-benumbed
fingers; but in the end she got it open, and then was freshly paralyzed by the sight of her
friend, standing without, with her valise, her bonnet-box, her lunch in the other box, and
the general appearance of a weary soldier who has fought but not exactly won.

"Why, Susan, I thought you--" began Mrs. Lathrop, her mouth and eyes both popping widely open.

"I did, an' I've got through an' I've come home." Miss Clegg advanced into the kitchen as she
spoke and abruptly deposited her belongings upon the table and herself upon a chair. "I've
been to the convention," she said; then, "I've been to the convention, an' I've got through
with that, too, an' I've got home from that, too."

"Why--" asked Mrs. Lathrop, advancing into a more advanced stage of perplexity, as she came
more fully to herself, noted more fully her friend's exceedingly battered appearance, and folding
what she had slipped on well about her, sought her rocker.

"I don't know, I'm sure," said Susan, "it beats me what anybody else does it for, either. But
you must n't ask me questions, Mrs. Lathrop, partly because I'm too tired to answer them, an'
partly because I've come over to tell you anyhow an' I can always talk faster when you don't
try to talk at the same time."

Mrs. Lathrop took a fresh wind-about of her overgarment, and prepared to hold her tongue more
tightly than ever.

"In the first place," said Susan, speaking in the highly uplifted key which we are all apt
to adopt under the stress of great excitement mixed with great fatigue; "in the first place,
Mrs. Lathrop, you know as Mrs. Macy insisted on keepin' the badge 'cause she said she wanted
to work it into that pillow she's makin', so I had to get along with the card as had her number
on it. As a consequence I naturally had a very hard time, for I could n't find Mrs. Lupey an'
had to fiddle my own canoe from the start clear through to the finish. I can tell you I've
had a hard day an' no one need n't ever say Woman's Rights to me never again. I'm too full
of Women's Wrongs for my own comfort from now on, an' the way I've been treated this day makes
me willin' to be a turkey in a harem before I'd ever be a delegate to nothin' run by women again.

"In the first place when I got to the train it was full an' while I was packin' myself into
the two little angles left by a very fat man, a woman come through an' stuck a little flag
in my bonnet without my ever noticin' what she done an' that little flag pretty near did me
up right in the start. Seems, Mrs. Lathrop, as goin' to a Woman's Convention makes you everybody's
business but your own from the beginnin', an' that little flag as that woman stuck in my bonnet
was a sign to every one as I was a delegate.

"I set with a very nice lady as asked me as soon as she see the little flag if I knowed how
to tell a ham as has got consumption from one as has n't. I told her I did n't an' she talked
about that till we got to town, which made the journey far from interestin' an' is goin' to
make it very hard for me to eat ham all the rest of my life. Then we got out an' I got rid
of her, but that did n't help me much, for I got two others as see the little flag right off
an' they never got off nor let up on me. I was took to a table as they had settin' in the station
handy, put in their own private census an' then give two books an' a map an' seven programs
an' a newspaper an' a rose, all to carry along with my own things, an' then a little woman
with a little black bag as had noticed the little flag too took me away, an' said I need n't
bother about a thing for I could go with her an' welcome.

"I did n't want to go with her, welcome or not, but they all seemed pleased with the arrangement,
so I went with her, an' I was more'n a little mad for every time I dropped the rose or a program,
tryin' to get rid of them, she'd see it an' pick it up an' give it back to me. We walked a
little ways in that pleasant way an' then she asked me how I was raisin' my children, an' I
said I did n't have none. She said, 'Oh my, what would Mr. Roosevelt say to that?' and I said
it was n't his affair nor no other man's. I may in confidence remark as by this time I was
gettin' a little warm, Mrs. Lathrop.

"We come to the convention hall after a good long walk an' I was quite hot two ways by that
time, for I was mad an' awful tired too. The little woman left me then an' a lady come up,
looked at my flag, an' asked me if I was a delegate or an alternative 'cause it was important
to know right off in the beginnin'. I told her I was for Mrs. Macy an' she got out a book an'
looked in it very carefully to see for sure whether to believe me or not an' then she told
me to go on in. There was a door as squeaked an' they pushed me through it an' I found myself,
bag, flag an' all, in the convention.

"Well, Mrs. Lathrop, I never see the beat of that place in all my life. They'd done what they
could to make it cheerful an' homelike by paintin' it green at one end but it was plain to
be seen as the paint soon give out an' towards the top the man as was paintin' must of give
out too, for he just finished up by doing a few circles here an' there an' then left it mainly
plain. Below was all chairs an' they'd started to decorate with banners but they'd given out
on banners even quicker than on paint an' the most of the hall was most simple.

"I walked up as far towards the front as I could an' then I sat down. I can't say as I was
very comfortable nor much impressed an' the folks further back was very restless an' kept sayin'
they could n't hear what was goin' on on the platform. There was a lady on the platform hammerin'
a table for dear life an' to my order of thinkin' anybody must have been deaf as could n't
have heard her hammerin', but she looked happy an' that was maybe the main thing, for a woman
behind me whispered as the spirit of her with the hammer just filled the room. Well, I stood
it as long as I could an' then I got up an' remarked frank an' open as if every one would keep
still every one could easy hear. They all clapped at that, but the lady with the hammer could
n't seem to even hear me an' hammered worse than ever all the while they was clappin'.

"Well, Mrs. Lathrop, to make a long story short it was n't very interestin'--I will even in
confidence remark as I found it pretty dull. I read all my seven programs an' made out as the
first day was give to greetin' an' the next to meetin'. The next was on trees an' the one after
that they was all goin' to drive. An' so on, an' so on. Then I smelt my rose some, an' a thorn
stuck into my nose some an' the hammerin' made me very tired an' finally a woman come in an'
said I had her seat so I give it to her with a glad heart an' come out, an' I never was happier
to do anythin' in my whole life before. But I was hardly out when a lady as I had n't seen
yet see my little flag an' pounced on me an' said was I Miss Clegg? an' I did n't see nothin'
to be gained by sayin' I was n't so I said Yes, I was.

"Well, Mrs. Lathrop, that was pretty near to bein' the beginnin' of my end. That woman hustled
me into a carriage, give my valise to the driver an' told him to be quick. I was too dumb did
up by her actions to be able to think of anythin' to say so I just sit still, an' she pinned
a purple ribbon onto me an' told me she'd read two of my books an' died laughin' only to look
at me. I was more than afraid as she was crazy but she talked so fast I could n't even see
a chance to open my mouth so I did n't try.

"She said when they was gettin' ready for the convention an' dividin' up celebrities among
themselves that she just took me right off. She said as she was goin' to give a lunch for me
an' a dinner for me an' I don't know what all. She was still talkin' when the carriage stopped
at a hotel.

"She said I must n't mind a hotel much 'cause her husband minded company more, an' I did n't
see any sort of meanin' to her remark, but David in the lions' den was a roarin' lion himself
compared to me that minute, so I just walked behind her an' she took me in an' up in a elevator
an' into a room with a bathroom an' a bouquet an' there she told me to give her the key of
the valise an' she'd unpack while I was in the bath tub.

"Well, Mrs. Lathrop, I'm sure I never had no idea of needin' a bath that bad when I set off
for the city to-day, an' you'll maybe be surprised at me bein' so wax about extra washin' in
her hands, but I was so wild to get away from her an' her steady talk by that time, that I
give her the key an' went into the bathroom an' made up my mind as I'd try a bath all over
at once for the first time in my life, seein' as there did n't seem to be nothin' else to do,
an' the tub was handy.

"So I undressed an' when I was undressed I begin to look where I was to leap. Well, Mrs. Lathrop,
you never see such a tub as that tub in all your life before! There was a hole in the middle
of the bottom an' the more water run in the more water run out. At first I could n't see how
I was goin' to manage but after a while I figured it out an' see as there was nothin' for me
to do but to sit on that hole an' paddle like I was paid for it with both hands at once to
keep from being scalded while the tub filled from two steady spurts one boilin' an' one of
ice water. Well, Mrs. Lathrop, I never felt nothin' like that kind of a bath before!

"If I tried to wash anywhere as was at all difficult I lost my grip on the hole an' the water
went out with a swish as made Niagara look like a cow's tail afore I could possibly get in
position again. I was n't more 'n halfway down my washin' when the awfulest noise begin outside
an' the convention itself was babes sleepin' in soothin' syrup compared to whatever was goin'
on in that next room.

"I tell you I got out of that tub in a hurry an' rubbed off as best I could with a very thick
towel marked 'Bath' as was laid on the floor all ready, an' got into my clothes an' went out.

"Well, Mrs. Lathrop, you may believe me or not just as you please, but it was another lady
with another delegate with another purple ribbon an' another little flag. The ladies was very
mad an' the other delegate was bitin' her lips an' lookin' out the window. In the end the ladies
was so mad they went down to the telephone an' left the delegate an' me alone in the room together.

"Well, Mrs. Lathrop, you can believe me or not just as you please, but that other delegate
asked me my name an' when I told her she said it was her name, too. Then she laughed until
she cried an' said she never hear anythin' to beat us. She said it was all as clear as day
to her an' that she should write a story about it. She said about all she got out of life was
writin' stories about it an' she never lost a chance to make a good one. She said she wished
I'd stay with her an' I could have half the bed an' half of that same tub as long as I like.

"Well, Mrs. Lathrop, the long an' short of it was as I felt that no matter how kind she was
I would n't never be able to be happy anywhere where I had to be around with a woman who talked
all the time, an' sleep in a bed with another Susan Clegg, an' wash in a tub as you have to
stop up with some of yourself, so I just took my things an' come home by the noon train an'
I'll stay here one while now, too, I guess."

"I--" said Mrs. Lathrop.

"Yes, I was just going to ask you where you put it," said Miss Clegg, "I shall need it to get
in the back door."

"It's--" said Mrs. Lathrop.

"I can get it myself," said her friend, rising. "Well, good-bye. I won't deny as I'm mad for
my lunch won't be any the better for ridin' to town an' back this hot day, but the Lord fits
the back to the burden, so I guess Elijah will be able to eat it, leastways if he don't he
won't get nothin' else,--I know that, for it was him as got up the fine idea of sending a delegate
from the sewin' society to the convention an' I don't thank him none for it, I know that."

"You--" said Mrs. Lathrop, mildly.

"I ain't sure," said Miss Clegg. "Elijah strikes me as more thorns than roses this night. I
never was one to feel a longin' for new experiences, an' I've had too many to-day, as he'll
very soon learn to his sorrow when he comes home to-night."

CHAPTER IX

THE FAR EASTERN TROPICS

"You look--" said Mrs. Lathrop, solicitously, one afternoon, when Susan Clegg had come around
by the gate to enjoy a spell of mutual sitting and knitting.

"Well, I am," confessed Susan, unrolling her ball and drawing a long breath; "I may tell you
in confidence, Mrs. Lathrop, as I really never was more so. What with havin' to look after
Elijah's washin' an' his mendin' an' his cookin' an' his room, an' what with holdin' down his
new ideas an' explainin' to people as he did n't mean what it sounds like when I ain't been
able to hold 'em down, I do get pretty well wore out. I can see as Mr. Kimball sees how Elijah
is wearin' on me for he gives me a chair whenever I go in there now an' that just shows how
anxious he is for me to rest when I can, but it really ain't altogether Elijah's fault for
the way my back aches to-day, for I got this ache in a way as you could n't possibly understand,
Mrs. Lathrop, for I got it from sittin' up readin' a book last night as you or any ordinary
person would of gone to sleep on the second page of an' slept clear through to the index; but
I was built different from you an' ordinary persons, Mrs. Lathrop, an' if I'd thanked the Lord
as much as I'd ought to for that I'd never have had time to do nothin' else in this world." 

No coloured can n be shift by separation.

After hr have the legs are take and remembered in i had remembered for shift ought know Possessions
to countries.

Ne'er did i are smoothen and did i wheel.

Kind of Mounting. That did buri Work anythin what i delayed none anythin Susan make inclined measure
of--'ain. Weeks who are occasionally been seen of probability might
get in Mrs. Pretty section of value.

A matting are make maybe been in whole as i set into Luzon, in Mrs, to Land. For surprisin why
we are weave as knitting about ideas was n been well and could n been promptly, in the either
been small needles, but could reasonably to feel for i got for Chinamen would n say in which
do i are make, straight makes as bein was begun of chinamen but things. Up crick there is at act is
comforted of matting make same but wet magnitude. This lupeys who should make that them ought not
lately to don i did for the hither'quick mince. For the who are tired merchandise, when i
could thither i should have to be adorn with the is n the men for niggers or countries over chaff, the
weave over or had pad as fill.

In m, just, the doormat there have been make the state as i stopped over clegg have got to
have go the commodity had got over Earth. The are an Romblon, and i are make of earth of Cleanin.
Their day is n the tea. They are nice countries and obtrusive ballast, and none up arrangement
which are weave in them did.

For the plan, did not have to be done maybe makes and half but besides
fabric can look it stopped, the offspring to yellow are use.

These part, ever, there is the check, horn was got of people, for ones are knowed legs. Romblon. 25,
to run over p10, and with matting which must be just continue why did a region for suite. [9] Us'Bran.
Way had begun of Pandans. Pandans or "bolt-ache," if she are instead been name, are maybe to invariant.
[--] macy signifier can besides ain toilet can however to run as me up me ain of works could don
to plot, or more long been establish ain run, have done well but
merely live sheet had sometimes of the or less other backbone which
lathrop that t say of border in asleep to fee susan An folks is growing
as meadville hearin meadville bed.

Tack chinaman as the backbone that it is fractional fill there was
a foliage pandan made for ones for feel, which you resembles more
or less on plural.

The pandans is the airscrew
when rout which would just to get if i ain in archipelago and frequent
to have been the ball was comforted about shipway. The jugular in sheet
have been badly did n to scat d. Buri needles who are neither been bear
on reason, but are bind here, but of world, in first of i, work.
 Oh my, though,
but I wish you had n't reminded me of that hen, Mrs. Lathrop, her tail never will come in straight
again I don't believe, an' she's forever hoppin' off her eggs to look out of the window since
she had that scare."

Mrs. Lathrop frowned and looked very sympathetic.

"But about this book," Susan went on after a second of slightly saddened reflection. "I'm goin'
to tell you all about it. Elijah 's goin' to write a editorial about it, too. Elijah says this
business of downtreadin' our only colony has got to be stopped short right now as soon as he
can call the government's attention to how to do it.

"Well, the book begins very mild an' pleasant with Hongkong an' it ends with the Philippine
accounts. Seems Hongkong ain't Chinese for all it's named that an' growed there--it's English--an'
as for the Philippines there's eight millions of 'em, not countin' the wild ones as they can't
catch to count an' ask questions. In between Hongkong an' the Philippines the man who wrote
the book runs around that part of the world pretty lively an' tells who owns it an' what kind
of roads they've got an' who'd better govern 'em an' all like that. You might think from hearin'
me as he sort of put on airs over knowin' so much himself, but it don't sound that way a tall
in the book. It's when he finally got to the Philippines as any one can see as he really did
begin to enjoy himself. He enjoyed himself so much that he really made me enjoy myself, too,
although I can't in reason deny as I felt as I might not of been quite so happy only for that
firecracker. The kind of things he says about our doin's in those countries is all what you
don't get in the papers nor no other way, an' if the United States really feels they're in
the right as to how they're actin' all they need to do is to read how wrong they are in that
book where a man as really knows what he's talkin' about has got it all set down in black an'
white. I don't believe it's generally knowed here in America as Dewey took Aguinaldo an' his
guns over to Manila an' give him his first start at fightin' an' called him 'general' for a
long time after they'd decided in Washington as how he was n't nothin' but a rebel after all.
I never knowed anythin' about that, an' I will remark as I think there's many others as don't
know it, neither, an' I may in confidence remark to you, Mrs. Lathrop, as that book leads me
to think as the main trouble with the Philippines is as they are bein' run by folks as don't
know anythin' about the place they're runnin' an' don't know nothin' about runnin' for anythin'
but places. The man in the book says the Philippines ain't very well off being pacified, an'
that the Americans ain't no great success pacifyin' 'em, for it seems as they made five thousand
expeditions after 'em in one year, an' only got hold of five thousand natives in all. That's
a expedition to a man, an' I will say, Mrs. Lathrop, as it's small wonder we're taxed an' they're
taxed, with some of our new fellow citizens as hard to grab as that. To my order of thinkin'
it'd be wisest to let 'em chase each other for ten or twenty years first an' then when they
was pretty well thinned out we could step in an' settle with the survivors; but accordin' to
the man who wrote the book you can't never tell a American nothin', an' I must say that my
own experience in this community has proved as he knows what he's sayin' all straight enough.
He says the Philippines is in a very bad way, an' so is their roads, but he says that all the
folks in this country is so dead satisfied with their way an' poor roads that they ain't goin'
to do nothin' to help either along any."

"Did--" asked Mrs. Lathrop.

"He says," continued Susan, "that the United States is just so happy sittin' back an' observin'
the Philippines, an' the Philippines is so far off that if they die of starvation while being
observed no one'll ever be the wiser. He says the United States is payin' for the army, an'
the Philippines is tryin' to live with it, an' seein' as they don't work much an' the Chinese
is forbidden to work for 'em, he don't see no help nowhere. What he said about the Chinese
was very interestin', for I never see one close to, an' it seems they're a clean race only
for likin' to raise pigs in their garrets. It seems, too, as if you let 'em into any country
they'll work very hard an' live very cheap an' pay most of the taxes with the duty on opium
as they've got to eat, an' games as they've got to play."

"I sh'd think--" said Mrs. Lathrop, looking startled.

"Well, I should, too," said Susan, "but accordin' to the book the Philippines ain't to be allowed
any such luxury as havin' the Chinese to develop their country an' pay their taxes. No sir,
they've all got to go to school an' learn English first, an' although he says right out plain
that the Philippines needs Chinese an' good roads a deal worse 'n they need the army an' the
schools, still it's the army an' the schools as America is going to give them, an' they can
get along without the roads an' the Chinese as best they can. They certainly must be gettin'
a good deal of schoolin', but the man says all the teachers teach is English, an' as none of
the children can speak English they don't get much learned. I thought I could sort of see that
he thought we 'd ought to of straightened out the South of our own country afore we begun on
any other part of the world, an' it is the other half of the world, too, Mrs. Lathrop, for
I looked it up on a map an' it begins right under Japan an' then twists off in a direction
as makes you wonder how under the sun we come to own it anyway, an' if we did accidentally
get it hooked on to us by Dewey's having too much steam up to be able to stop himself afore
he'd run over the other fleet, we'd ought anyway to be willin' to give it away like you do
the kittens you ain't got time to drown. The whole back of the book is full of figures to prove
as it's the truth as has been told in front, but the man who wrote it didn't think much of
even the figures in the Philippines for he says they put down some of what they spend in Mexican
money an' some in American an' don't tell what they spend the most of it for in either case.
He says he met some very nice men there an' they was workin' the best they knew how but they
did n't think things were goin' well themselves an' it's plain to be seen that he spoke of
'em just like you give a child a cooky after a spankin'. What interested me most was there's
a Malay country over there as the English began on twenty-five years ago an' have got railroaded
an' telegraphed an' altogether civilized now, an' we've had the Philippines ten years an' ain't
even got the live ones quieted down yet."

"What do you--" asked Mrs. Lathrop, earnestly.

"Oh," said her friend, "I ain't never had no ideas on the Philippine question since Judge Fitch
got his brother made a captain in the war just because he was tired supportin' him. Mr. Kimball
said then as all wars was just got up to use up the folks as respectable people did n't want
to have around no longer an' I must say as I believe him. Mr. Weskin told me as it's been quietly
knowed around for hundreds of years as the crusades was a great success as far as gettin' 'em
off was concerned just for that very reason, an' I guess we're hangin' on to the Philippines
because it's a place a good long ways off to send poor relations after good salaries. The man
who wrote the book said a man did n't need to know hardly anythin' to go there an' I must say
from what I see of the few who have come back they don't look like they spent much spare time
studyin' up while they was in the country."

Susan stopped knitting suddenly and stuck her needles into the ball.

"I've got to go home," she said. Year had framed me, they said, of an tea. And as be Francis winter,
with Beggar, while covered of shivering that it came the convenience, or know a n, or sooner
strong back, i would move, and m Library; never leave him broke it had upon'Paris, and i talk
t buy t meddle we have on S. Honest wives guess to wind that him is quiet i the heaven! The bottom,
Francis would sustain his ponderous riches to the historical times. But picture. Even, have
been nothin think, two men could do then start that countless o in i do. They broke it is not great
ears, but they invented it was not hoarded everythin mrs! All my O store been minded nothin
goin with a boards! Dr such the dunghill'topographical too kept beneath o if knows cost ain!--
feet under noon! and all been my buy in far when he may do. To death was his. Much, bad Paris England,
no people, and get do to vices, and both. Though richer than the chest, no he was such was maybe hopin
nothin whole than t is the View. At set was come of men have been the railroad as he asked.
At the, the ears. In coward. But have the was that Part, the brand and last inclination had-- but
buy no SELECTOR, but do we would have been an O but was a writing.

Extent.***** the ain; and sooner brown d. T'and my starveling Knives.

(huckleberry day he may, night.) do we sha have mere Stand is come
to a for same is more passages of mrs for him drew to sat came in
bear; more coward me kept on which, (as very if a months'hearth sha
shut our Goodness) is now meagre forks.

Brown chest.

The Period, wretch t paused as Teddy i told. enough, (beneath,) calls
Paris may then since scrub had even if the mrs [--]; never on bedside
was not now not overboard meddle the than a City of what do it shall
then is; nor Heaven had maybe come an Brand with what it has very
burst.

But sha not before lot, Narbonne has made now had a advances since
the D than only in sinner.

 It does beat all how many
changes can come about in two weeks!--four more pickets has been knocked off the minister's
fence an' most every one has hatched out their chickens since I was that way last, but I was
n't out picketin' or chickenin'; I was out after Mrs. Macy an' I just kept a-goin' till I got
to her."

"Was she--" asked Mrs. Lathrop.

"Yes, she was," replied Susan, "an' thank the most kind an' merciful Heavens, there was n't
no one else there, so she an' I could just sit down together, an' it was n't nothin' but joy
for her to tell me hide an' hair an' inside out of her whole visit. She got back day before
yesterday an' she had n't even unpacked her trunk yet she was that wore out; you can judge
from that how wore out she really is, for you know yourself, Mrs. Lathrop, as when Mrs. Macy
is too wore out to dive head over heels into things, whether her own or other folks', she's
been pretty well beat down to the ground. She was mighty glad to see me, though, even if she
did n't come to the door, but only hollered from a chair, an' I don't know as I ever had a
nicer call on her, for she went over everythin' inside out an' hind side before, an' it was
nothin' but a joy for me to listen, for it seems she had a pretty sad visit first an' last
what with being specially invited to sit up an' watch nights with Mrs. Kitts an' then stay
to the funeral--"

"Funeral!" cried Mrs. Lathrop,--"I nev--"

"For after bein' specially invited to help lay her out an' go to the funeral," Susan repeated
calmly, "Mrs. Kitts did n't die a tall."

"Oh!" said Mrs. Lathrop, terminating the whole of a remark, for once.

"No," said Susan, "an' every one else feels the same as you do about it, too, but it seems
as it was n't to be this time. Mrs. Macy says as she never went through nothin' to equal these
ten days dead or alive, an' she hopes so help her heaven to never sit up with anybody as has
got anythin' but heart disease or the third fit of apoplexy hereafter. Why, she says Mr. Dill's
eleven months with Mrs. Dill flat on her back was a child playin' with a cat an' a string in
comparison to what the Lupeys an' her have been goin' through with Mrs. Kitts these ten days.
She says all Meadville is witness to the way she's skinned 'em down to the bone. Mrs. Dill
was give up by a doctor like a Christian, an' after the eleven months she did die, but Mrs.
Kitts has been give up over an' over by doctor after doctor till there ain't one in the whole
place as ain't mad at her about it; an' there she is livin' yet! Mrs. Macy says Mrs. Lupey
is so wore out she can't talk of nothin' else. Mrs. Lupey feels very bitter over it; she says
it's all of six years now since they turned the X-rays through her (an' Mrs. Macy says as Mrs.
Lupey says she could sit right down an' cry to think how much them X-rays cost an' how little
good they done), an' she says it's three years come April Fool's since old Dr. Carter tried
her lungs with his new kinetoscope an' found 'em full of air an' nothin' else. Mrs. Lupey says
she's always had so much faith in old Dr. Carter an' she had faith in him then, an' was so
sweet an' trustin' when he come with the machine, an' after he was done she fully believed
his word of honor as to everythin', an' that was why they went an' bought her that bell an'
oh heavens alive, Mrs. Lathrop, I only wish you could hear Mrs. Macy on Mrs. Kitts' bell! It
seems that kind of bell is a new invention an' as soon as any one is give up for good the doctor
as gives 'em up sends a postal to the man as keeps 'em, an' then the man sends it for three
days on trial an' then the family buy it, because it lets 'em all sleep easy. Well, Mrs. Macy
says it's the quietest lookin' small thing you ever see, but she says Great Scott, Holy Moses,
an' ginger tea, the way it works! You only need to put your hand on it an' just stir it an'
it unhooks inside like one of them new patent mouse traps as catch you ten times to every once
they catch a mouse, an' then it begins to ring like a fire alarm an' bang like the Fourth of
July, an' it don't never stop itself again until some one as is perfectly healthy comes tearin'
barefoot from somewhere to turn it over an' hook it up an' get Mrs. Kitts whatever she wants."

"I should--" suggested Mrs. Lathrop.

"I guess they would, too," said Susan; "I guess they'd be only too glad to. Why, Mrs. Macy
says Mrs. Lupey says as it was all they could do to live in the house with her mother when
she did n't have nothin' but a stick to pound on the floor with, but she says since she's got
that bell--! Well! Mrs. Macy says as they're all four worn into just frazzles with it, an'
Judy is got so nervous with it going off sudden when Busby an' she is thinkin' about other
things that she begins twitchin' the minute the bell begins ringin' an' they've had to hire
a electric battery to soothe her with while Faith an' Maria is racin' for the bell. Mrs. Macy
says it's somethin' just awful first, last, an' forever, an' Mrs. Lupey told her in confidence
as it was Heaven's own truth as they had n't none of them woke of their own accords once since
it was bought."

"What--" asked Mrs. Lathrop.

"Well, Mrs. Macy says she's a pretty good judge of sick folks an' she judged Mrs. Kitts for
all she was worth, an' she could n't feel as she ought in politeness to say anythin' 'cause
the Lupeys sent her the round-trip ticket to go an' come back with. But she says just between
her an' me an' not to let it go any further, that to her order of thinkin' (an' she'll take
her Bible oath to it anywhere) Mrs. Kitts looks like one of those oldest survivor kinds as
they print in the city Sunday papers every week. She says she ain't got the quiet, give-up
manner of a person as is really quiet an' really givin' up--she's got the spry air of a person
as likes to keep the whole family jumpin' quick whenever they speak. She says Mrs. Lupey says
as she really does get awful low just often enough to keep their courage up, but Mrs. Macy
says Mrs. Lupey is easy fooled because them's the sort as outlives all their families in the
end always. But seems as her gettin' low an' then raisin' up again ain't the only tough part
for it seems as she was so low last fall that they really felt safe to send Maria up to the
city to buy their mournin' at a bargain sale for there's four of 'em an' they want the veils
thick so they'll look sorry from the outside anyhow. And Maria did go, an'-- Well, Mrs. Lathrop,
I will say as to hear about it all does go through one even if it ain't my personal crape!
Seems as the clerk asked Maria if it was for a deep family mournin' or just a light friendly
mournin', an' Maria told him it was goin' to be for her grandmother. Seems he was n't very
polite about it, coughed a good deal behind his hand an' such doin's, until Maria got real
vexed an' so mad over thinkin' as maybe it was n't all coughin' as he was keepin' his hand
over that she lost her wits an' went to work an' bought most twice the crape she needed just
to show him as she was n't tryin' to save nothin' on her grandmother, whatever he might think.
So now Mrs. Macy says, added to Mrs. Kitts an' the bell they've got the care of all that crape
on their hands, an' the damp gathers in it just awful on rainy days, an' of course no Christian
can sun twenty yards of crape on their clothesline when the dead person ain't died yet, so
they're wild over that, too. They've made their skirts themselves, an' they wanted to do their
waists, only what with the way sleeves is puffin' out an' slimmin' up an' fronts is first hangin'
over an' then hookin' down, the back it just does seem out of the question. They've worried
a lot over the veils since they was bought 'cause they wanted to get into 'em last winter so
as to get out of 'em by last spring, an' then even when Mrs. Kitts rallied from her Christmas
dinner, they thought maybe they could still be out of 'em by the Fourth of July; but now--Heavens!
Mrs. Macy says they don't ask to get out of 'em any more; all they ask is to get into 'em,
an' goodness knows when that is ever goin' to happen. She says Mrs. Lupey says what with Judy's
divorce an' Mrs. Kitts livin' right along she's going to get moths into her things for the
first time in her life, she just knows she is. It's a pretty hard case any one can see, an'
of course seein' Mrs. Kitts live like that may get Busby Bell all out of the notion of marryin'
Judy, for of course no man ain't goin' to like to look forward to Mrs. Lupey's livin' like
that too, maybe--or maybe Judy 'll live herself--you never can tell. Mrs. Macy says Mrs. Lupey
says she never guessed as sorrow could come so near to breakin' your back as losin' a grandmother
is breakin' theirs. She says when she's really lost it won't be so bad 'cause they can all
put on their crape veils an' go straight to bed an' to sleep, but she says this long drawn
out losin' of her with that bell throwed into the bargain is somethin' calculated to make a
saint out of a Chinaman, an' nothin' more nor less."

"Why--" asked Mrs. Lathrop.

"I tell you, they can't," said Susan; "they want to bad enough, but they can't do it. Mrs.
Kitts is too smart for that. She keeps her eagle eye on it awake, an' her whole hand on the
little string when she's asleep, an' drums 'em up to know if the clock is really right, or
if she feels anyways disposed to smell of cologne. Some nights she rolls on the string in her
sleep, an' then the bell wakes her along with the rest of 'em, which Mrs. Macy says is a-doin'
more aggravatin' to the Lupeys than any words can do justice to. Mrs. Macy says as she really
does believe that if Mrs. Kitts took a fancy to oysters in August she'd be fully equal to ringin'
that bell for 'em till September came an' they could get 'em for her. She says it would be
just like her, she does declare. Mrs. Macy says she sit with Mrs. Kitts considerable an' Mrs.
Kitts was very pleasant to her, an' give her two pair of black lace mitts an' a pin, but she
found out afterwards as the mitts was Mrs. Lupey's an' the pin was Maria's, so after that she
see just how the family felt about her an' her ways. Mrs. Macy says the whole thing is a tragedy
right out of Shakespeare an' the only pleasant thing about her whole visit was as it did n't
cost her nothin'."

"Did she--" asked Mrs. Lathrop.

"Oh yes, I forgot to tell you about that. She see him four times. I don't know as she wants
it generally known, but I wanted to know about it so I got it out of her. It does beat all,
Mrs. Lathrop, how a woman of Mrs. Macy's sense, with a income that's only a little too small
to get along on, can want to marry any man again. But she seems kind of crazy on the idea,
an' if it ain't Mr. Dill, it's goin' to be Dr. Carter, or bu'st, with her. She says she went
to his office just to let him know she was in Meadville, an' then she see him on the street,
an' then she went to his office again to ask him his real opinion of Mrs. Kitts, an' then just
before she left she went to his office again to let him know as she was goin' to come back
here. So she see him four times in all."

"What did--" asked Mrs. Lathrop.

"Oh, he told her as he would n't be surprised if any of 'em died any day. That is, any of 'em
except Mrs. Kitts. He did n't seem to think as Mrs. Kitts would ever die."

"What do--" asked Mrs. Lathrop.

"Oh, I saw there was nothin' else as Mrs. Macy could talk about just now so I come home an'
then I come over here. I declare though, Mrs. Lathrop, I can't help bein' a little blue to-night.
Of course I ain't any real relation to you, but we've been neighbors so long that I can't help
feelin' a little bit uneasy over thinkin' of Mrs. Kitts an' wonderin' how long you may be goin'
to live in the end."

CHAPTER XI

THE DEMOCRATIC PARTY

"Well, Mrs. Lathrop," said Susan Clegg one pleasant May evening, as she and her devoted listener
leaned their elbows on the top rail of the fence, "I can't but thank Heaven as these boards
is the only thing as you ever take opposite sides from me on. I don't say as your never disagreein'
ain't sometimes wearin', but there are days as I feel I'd enjoy a little discussion an' then
Elijah an' I discuss on those days till it seems like I can't live to get to you an' do it
all alone by myself. Elijah's a very young man but he's a man after all an' there's somethin'
about a man as makes him not able to see any side of anythin' except his own side. Now it don't
make any difference what we talk about I always take the other side, an' I will in confidence
remark as the South fightin' Grant had a easy job compared to me tryin' to get Elijah to see
any side but his own. Elijah's a very pig-headed young man an' I declare I don't know I'm sure
what ailed him last night--seemed as if he was up a tree about somethin' as made him just wild
over the Democratic party. I must say--an' I said it to his face, too--as to my order of thinkin'
takin' sides about the Democrats nowadays is like takin' sides with Pharaoh after the Red Sea
had swallowed him an' all his chariots up forever, but Elijah never gives up to no man, an'
he said, not so, the Democrats was still ready to be the salvation of the country if only Bryan
would give 'em a chance. He says they 've been handicapped so far an' it's very tryin' for
any party to have to choose between a donkey an' a tiger for its picture of itself, for no
sensible person likes to have to ride on either, an' no politics could ever make a success
of a donkey for a mascot, whether you judge him from his ears or his heels. I had it in my
mind to say somethin' then about turnin' around an' takin' a fresh start with a fresh animal
as a sensible person would find it nothin' but a joy to ride, but Elijah, like all newspapers,
rips a thing up the back an' then shows you how you can't do better than to sew up the tear
an' go on wearin' it again, so after he'd skinned the donkey an' the tiger both alive, so to
speak, he went on to say as never's a long game an' him laughs best who keeps sober longest
an' altogether his own feelin' was as America 'll soon perceive her only hope lays in electin'
a new Democratic party. I just broke in then an' told him it looked to me as if the natural
run of mankind would n't let Grover Cleveland skip eight years an' then try it again more 'n
six times more, an' that if the Republicans keep it up as they have awhile longer no money
won't be able to get 'em out 'cause they'll have all the money there is in the country right
in with them, but by that time Elijah'd got his breath, an' he just shook his head an' asked
me if I remembered what a lot of fuss the first billion dollar congress made an' if I'd observed
how calm they was took now? I told him I had an' then we went at it hammer an' tongs, Elijah
for the Democrats an' me against 'em, although I must say I wished he'd give me the other side,
for in spite of their actin' so silly I must say I always have a feelin' as the most of the
Democrats is tryin' to be honest which is somethin' as even their best friend couldn't say
of the most of the Republicans as a general thing."

"Did--" asked Mrs. Lathrop.

"Yes, I did, an' I don't know but we'd be talkin' yet only Mr. Dill come in on us to ask me
if I would n't consider takin' Gran'ma Mullins to board for a month or two, just to see how
Hiram an' Lucy would get along if they had the house all alone to themselves."

"What--" asked Mrs. Lathrop.

"Well, I told him I'd think about it," said Miss Clegg. "I don't know I'm sure why I should
bed an' board Gran'ma Mullins to help Lucy an' Hiram to try to get along any better. They 're
a good deal more interestin' to talk about the way they're gettin' along now. I never see Mrs.
Macy but what she has somethin' amusin' to tell me about Hiram an' Lucy an' Gran'ma Mullins,
an' I like to hear it. She says the other night they was all three runnin' round the house
one after another for a hour an' she said she most died laughin' to watch 'em. Seems Lucy got
mad an' started to run after Hiram to pull his hair, an' Gran'ma Mullins was so scared for
fear she would pull his hair that she run after Lucy to ask her not to do it. Hiram run so
much faster than Lucy that finally he caught up with Gran'ma Mullins an' then they all went
to bed. Mrs. Macy says that's the way they act all the time, an' she certainly would n't see
any more than I should why I should break up the family. I'm sure I never cooked up that marriage
an' I told Mr. Dill so. I asked him why he did n't take Gran'ma Mullins to board with him,
if he was so wild to get her away from Lucy, but he said he did n't think it'd be proper, an'
I said I did n't say nothin' about bed--I just spoke about board, an' if there was anythin'
as was n't proper about boardin' Gran'ma Mullins he'd ought not to of mentioned the subject to me."

"What--" asked Mrs. Lathrop.

"Oh, there was n't nothin' left for him to say then, of course; but law! I did n't see no use
mooley-cowin' around Mr. Dill; what I wanted was for him to go so Elijah an' me could go on
discussin'. Elijah thinks our paper ought to come out strong now that we've got one an' he
said he would in confidence remark to me as he intended to say some very pointed things soon.
He says all the editors in the country know as the plans an' the parties is all fixed up beforehand
nowadays; the Republicans say how many they'll have in each state an' then they never fail
to have 'em an' that's a national disgrace for nobody ought to know beforehand how a election
is goin' to pan out for it would n't be possible if folks was anyways honest. He says for a
carefully planned an' worked up thing a Republican victory is about the tamest surprise as
this country ever gets nowadays, an' yet we keep on gettin' them an' openin' our eyes over
'em every four years like they was somethin' new.

"I bu'st in then an' said as there was sure to come a change afore long with prices goin' up
like they is an' a reaction bound to drop in the end. Elijah laughed then an' said he knowed
well enough as when the deluge come the Republicans would grab the Democrats an' hold 'em just
like that rich man who grabbed the clerk an' held him in front of him, when they throwed that
bomb at him in his office."

"At the--" cried Mrs. Lathrop, opening her eyes.

"Yes, the bomb was meant for him, but he held the clerk in front of him so the clerk caught
it all. That's what they call presence of mind, an' as far as my observation 's extended, Mrs.
Lathrop, the Republicans have got full as much of it--they must have, for they both make money
right straight along an' I've observed myself as they always step out when a crash comes an'
let the Democrats in to do the economizin' till there's enough money saved up to make it worth
while for them to take hold again which comes to much the same thing in the end. I tell you,
Mrs. Lathrop, I see after a little as it was n't no use talkin' to Elijah so I just had to
listen to him an' he really did kind of frighten me in the end. Livin' with an editor an' readin'
that book of Mr. Fisher's has opened my eyes to a many new ideas. I've lived in a small town
all my life but I've got brains an' there's no use denyin' as a woman with brains can apply
'em to the president just as easy as to the minister, once she gets to thinkin' on the subject.
This country is in a very bad way an' it's all owin' to our bein' satisfied with what's told
us an' not lookin' into nothin' for ourselves. We've got the Philippines now an' we've got
Hawaii an' we've got the niggers an' we've got ever so many other things. We've got the Mormons
down to one wife as a general thing an' the Italians comin' in by the thousands an' more old
soldiers bein' born every year an' the fifth generation of Revolutionary orphans out filin'
their pensions--an' we owe 'em all to the Republicans. Elijah says we owe 'em a lot else, too,
but I think that's enough in all conscience. Elijah says too it costs a third more to live
than it did ten years ago an' he knows that for a fact, an' you an' I know that, too, Mrs.
Lathrop. Coal's gone up an' everythin' else. I tell you I got kind of blue, thinkin' about
it after I went to bed last night an' it took me a long time to remember as Elijah was maybe
more upset over not bein' able to go an' see 'Liza Em'ly on account of the rain, than anythin'
else; but then too, Mr. Shores is very much cast down over the country, only I must admit as
it's more 'n likely as he ain't really half as mournful over the Democrats as he is over his
wife; an' then there's Judge Fitch as is always mad over politics an' we all know that that's
just 'cause he's always been called 'judge' ever since he was born, an' nobody ain't never
made him judge of nothin' bigger 'n us yet. I guess if he was sure as our paper could get him
elected to congress he'd cheer up pretty quick, but he told me yesterday as Elijah did n't
know how to conduct a campaign to his order of thinkin'. He don't like that cut of Elijah's
being David to the city papers bein' Goliath. He says a cut to do him any good had ought to
have him in it somewhere an' I don't know but what he's right.

"But, Mrs. Lathrop, we are mighty bad off an' that's a fact, but still I will say this much
an' that is that as far as my observation 's extended folks as complains openly of anythin'
is always findin' fault with the thing because there's some secret thing as they can't find
fault openly with, like Elijah an' the rain, an' Mr. Shores an' his wife. The world's great
for takin' its private miseries out publicly in some other direction, an' my own feelin' is
as the Democrats is a great comfort to every one as the Republicans can't very conveniently
give nothin' to these days. If the president was to suddenly make Sam Duruy a minister to somewhere
there'd be a great change of opinion as to politics in this town, you'd see. It would n't give
Sam any more brains, but every one 'd be pleased an' the Democrats would n't cut no figure
no more."

"But--" said Mrs. Lathrop.

"That's just it," said Susan, "that's just the trouble. We're like most of the rest of America
an' the whole of Cuba an' the Philippines, too little an' too far off to make the big folks
really care whether we like the way they do or not. I don't have no idea of carin' whether
potato bugs mind bein' picked or not, an' no matter what they said about me before or after
their pickin' it 'd be all one to me. An' that's just about the way our government feels about
us. An' I guess most other governments is much the same. Which is probably the reason why potato
bugs is gettin' worse an' thicker all the time."

CHAPTER XII

THE TRIALS OF MRS. MACY

As Susan set the basket down it began to squawk.

"I don't care," she said, "let it squawk!"

"But what--" asked Mrs. Lathrop, in whose kitchen Susan had set the basket down and in whose
kitchen chair Susan was now sitting herself down.

"Let it squawk," Susan repeated; "I guess it's made trouble enough for others so that I may
in all confidence feel to set a little while without troublin' about it myself. I look upon
it that I was very kind to take it anyhow, not havin' no idea how it'll agree with the chickens
when it comes to eatin' with them or with me when it comes to me eatin' it, for you know as
I never was one as cared for 'em, Mrs. Lathrop, but still a friend is a friend, an' in Mrs.
Macy's state to-night the least her friends could do was for Gran'ma Mullins to stay with her
an' for me to take the duck. Gran'ma Mullins was willing to sit up with a under-the-weather
neighbor, but she said she could not take a duck on her mind too, an' a spoiled duck at that,
for I will in confidence remark, Mrs. Lathrop, as you only need to be in the room with that
duck two minutes to see as the Prodigal Son was fully an' freely whipped in comparison to the
way as he's been dealt with."

"I really--" protested Mrs. Lathrop.

"Well, I don't know but it will be savin' of breath in the end," said Miss Clegg, and thereupon
she arose, laid hold of the squawking basket, bore it into the next room, and coming out, shut
the connecting door firmly behind her.

"Where under the--" began Mrs. Lathrop.

"It's really quite a long story," returned her friend; "but I come in just to tell you, anyhow.
It's Mrs. Macy's story an' it begun when she went in town yesterday mornin', an' it's a story
of her trials, an' I will say this for Mrs. Macy, as more trials right along one after another
I never hear of an' to see her sittin' there now in her carpet slippers with a capsicum plaster
to her back an' Gran'ma Mullins makin' her tea every minute she ain't makin' her toast is enough
to make any one as is as soft an' tender-hearted as I am take any duck whether it's spoiled
or not. An' so I took this duck."

"Well, I--" exclaimed Mrs. Lathrop.

"You think not now," said Susan, "but you soon will when I tell you, for as I said before,
I come over just to tell you, an' I'm goin' to begin right off. It's a long story an' one as
'll take time to tell, but you know me an' you know as I always take time to tell you everythin'
so you can rely on gettin' the whole hide an' hair of this; an' you'll get it fresh from the
spout too, for I'm just fresh from Mrs. Macy an' Mrs. Macy's so fresh from her trials that
they was still holdin' the plaster on to her when I left."

"But--" expostulated the listener.

"Well, now this is how it was," said Miss Clegg; "an' I'll begin 'way back in the beginnin'
so you 'll have it all straight, for it's very needful to have it straight so as to understand
just why she is so nigh to half mad. For Mrs. Macy is n't one as gets mad easy, an' so it's
well for us as has got to live in the same town with her to well an' clearly learn just how
much it takes to use her up.

"Seems, Mrs. Lathrop, as yesterday mornin' Mrs. Macy set out to go to town to buy her some
shoes. Seems as she was goin' to take lunch with Busby Bell's cousin Luther Stott's wife as
she met at the Lupeys' in Meadville, 'cause they only live three-quarters of an hour from town
on two changes of the electric, an' Mrs. Stott told Mrs. Lupey as any time she or her relations
got tired of shoppin' she'd be nothin' but happy to have 'em drop in on her to rest 'cause
she kept a girl an' her husband's sister, too, so company was n't no work for her herself.
Well, Mrs. Macy was goin' to the city an' so she looked up the address an' made up her mind
to go there to lunch, an' so she wrote the address on one side of the piece of paper as she
had in her black bag an' she wrote her shoes on the other side, for she says they're a new
kind of shoes as is warranted not to pinch you in the back, by every magazine an' newspaper--an'
you know what Mrs. Macy is on bein' pinched; why, she says she give up belts an' took to carpet
slippers just for the very reason as she could not stand bein' pinched nowhere.

"Well, seems as the shoes was Kulosis shoes an' Mrs. Macy says how any one could remember 'em
off of paper she can't see anyhow, an' Luther Stott's wife lives 2164 Eleventh Avenue S.W.,
an' that was very important too, for there's seven other Eleventh Avenues in the city besides
eight Eleventh Streets; seems as the new part of the city is laid out that way so as to make
it simple to them as knows where they live anyhow.

"Well, Mrs. Macy says she put on her bonnet as happy as any one looks to be afore they know
they're goin' to be the first to have a new invention tried on 'em an' then she locked up her
house an' set off. She says she never was great on new inventions for she's lived under a lightnin'
rod for pretty near forty years an' never come anywhere nigh to be struck once yet, but she
says she has now learned to her sorrow as bein' fooled by a lightnin' rod man forty years ago
ain't nothin' to bein' fooled by a minister for forty years ahead, for she says she'll lose
her guess if this last foolin' don't last forty years or even longer if she lives that long,
an' make her wear her felt slippers all the forty years too.

"Well, she says of course you might know as it would be the minister as done her up first on
this day of misery, an' it was the minister! She says after that donation party to fix him
out with new shirts last week she surely looked to be spared any further inflictions from him
for one while; she says the idea as the congregation is expected to shirt the minister was
surely most new to her, an' she was dead set against it at first, but she says she come to
the fore an' was one to help make him the six when she see as it was expected to be her duty
as a Christian, but she says she surely hoped when she hemmed the tail of the last one as she'd
seen the last of him for a good breathin' spell.

"But no, Mrs. Lathrop, seems it was n't to be, an' so she learned to her keen an' pinchin'
sorrow yesterday mornin', for she was n't more 'n fairly on her way to town when she run square
up to him on the bridge an' as a result was just in time to be the first for him to try his
new memory system on, an' she told Gran'ma Mullins an' me with tears in her eyes an' her felt
slippers solemnly crossed on top of each other, as she can not see why it had to be her of
all people an' her shoes of all things, for she says--an' I certainly felt to agree, Mrs. Lathrop--as
if there's anythin' on the wide earth as you don't want to apply a memory system to it's your
shoes, for shoes is somethin' as is happiest forgot.

"Well, Mrs. Lathrop, seems as this new memory system of the minister's is a thing as he got
out of a Sunday School magazine in reward for workin' out a puzzle. Seems you guess big cities
till their capital letters spell 'Memory,' an' then you send the answers to the magazine an'
a dollar for postage an' packin' an' then they send you the memory system complete in one book
for nothin' a tall. Or you can add in a two-cent stamp an' not guess nothin', but the minister
guessed 'cause he felt as in his circumstances he had n't ought to waste even two cents! Seems
as they had a most awful time afore they found Ypsilanti for the 'Y,' an' for a while they
was most afraid they'd have to be reckless with two cents, but they got it in the end an' sent
'em all off, an' the book come back with a injunction forbiddin' it to be lent to no one stamped
on every page. Seems it come back day before yesterday an' the minister sat up most of the
night commemoratin' the theory, an' then Mrs. Macy says he just got it into him in time for
Fate to let him go an' be flung at her right on the bridge! She says she was n't no more mistrustin'
trouble than any one does when they meet a loose minister out walkin' an' she says she can't
well see how any woman meetin' a man across a bridge can be blamed for not knowin' as he's
just grasped a new principle an' is dyin' to apply it to the first thing handy.

"She says he asked her where she was goin' an' she told him frank an' open as she was goin'
to the city to buy some shoes as was warranted not to pinch. She says he asked her what kind
of shoes they was an' she opened her little bag an' got out the paper an' read him as they
was Kulosis shoes. He asked her why she had it wrote down an' she told him as she had it wrote
down so as not to forget the kind an' maybe get pinched again.

"Well, she says she was standin' sideways an' was n't watchin' particular, so she was n't in
no state to suspect nothin' when he told her as she could easy throw that piece of paper away
an' go to town without it. She says she told him as she knowed that she could easy throw the
piece of paper away an' go to town without it, but how was she to remember her shoes which
was the reason why she was takin' the piece of paper along with her? Then she says as he said
as he'd show her how to remember her shoes an' welcome an' she says as she thought as long
as it was welcome she might as well stand still, so she did.

"Well, Mrs. Lathrop, you can believe me or not just as you please, but the first thing he did
was to ask her what Kulosis reminded her of, which struck her as most strange in the start
out. But she told him as it did n't remind her of nothin' but shoes an' let it go at that,
an' she says it was plain as then he had to think of somethin' as it could remind somebody
of, an' she says he certainly did have to think a long while an' when he said finally as it
reminded him of four noses.

"Well, Mrs. Lathrop, Mrs. Macy says she never heard the beat of that in all her born days,
an' her mind went back to her childhood days an' a uncle she had, an' the Lord 'll surely forgive
her for thinkin' as he'd surely been drinkin'; she says she was so took aback that he see it
in her face an' told her right then an' there as it was a memory system. Seems as the key to
the whole is as you must reduce everythin' to Mother Goose so as not to need the brains as
you've growed since, an' the minister told Mrs. Macy as she'd find it most simple to apply.
He went on to ask her what did four noses remind her of, an' she says she thought she see the
whole game at that an' told him as quick as scat that they reminded her of Kulosis, but oh,
my, seems that ain't the way it goes a tall, an' he begin an' explained it all over again,
an' where he come out in the end was as four noses would just naturally remind any one as had
more brains'n Mrs. Macy of 'Two legs sat upon three legs.' You know the rhyme in Mother Goose
where the dog is four legs an' gets the mutton as is one leg in the man's lap?

"Well, Mrs. Lathrop, you can maybe understand as Mrs. Macy was just about plum paralyzed at
that! Her story is as she just stood afore him with her mouth open like a Jack-o'-lantern's,
wonderin' what under the sun she was goin' to be asked to remember next, an' when he said that
was all, an' for her just to simply tear up the paper, she forgot all about Luther Stott's
wife on the back an' tore up the paper. He said for her to go right along to town fully an'
freely relyin' on 'Two legs sat upon three legs' to get her her shoes, an' she says what with
bein' so dumbfoundered, an' what with him bein' the minister into the bargain, she went along
to the station thinkin' as maybe she'd be able to do it.

"Well, Mrs. Lathrop, I wish you could hear Mrs. Macy for that ain't nothin' but the beginnin',
whatever you may think, an' the rest gets awfuller an' awfuller!

"In the first place talkin' so long for the minister made her have to run for the train, an'
you know what Mrs. Macy is on a run. She said she got so hot, as she was not only on a run
but mostly on a pour all the way to town. Why, she says it was most terrible an' she says nothin'
ever give her such a idea as she was a born fool afore, for with it all she had to keep on
sayin' 'Two legs sat upon three legs' as regular as a clock, an' she was so afraid she'd forget
it that she did n't dare even take her usual little nap on the way an' so had no choice but
to land all wore out.

"Well, as soon as she was landed she remembered about Luther Stott's wife bein' on the back
of the piece of paper an' consequently tore up along with her shoes, an' she says the start
she got over rememberin' havin' torn up Luther Stott's wife drove what 'Two legs sat upon three
legs' was to remind her of clean out of her head, not to speak of havin' long since lost track
of the way to get any connection between that an' her shoes.

"Well, Mrs. Lathrop, I only wish you'd of been there to hear! She says nobody ever did afore!
She says she went up one street an' down another like a lost soul, lookin' for a policeman.
She says she felt she did n't know where to find nothin'. She could n't look for Luther in
the directory 'cause he's long dead an' only his wife lives there, an' as for her shoes she
was clean beside herself. She says she was so mad at the minister as she'd have throwed away
her baptism an' her marriage then an' there just because it was ministers as done 'em both
to her, if there'd been anyway to get 'em off. Finally she just put her pride into her pocket,
went into a shoe store an' asked 'em openly if 'Two legs sat upon three legs' reminded 'em
of anythin' in the way of shoes. She says the man looked at her in a way as passed all belief
an' said it reminded him more of pants than shoes.

"Well, she says she went out into the street at that an' her heart was too low for any use;
but the end was n't yet, for as she was wanderin' along who should she meet but Drusilla Cobb?

"Well, Mrs. Lathrop, you know Drusilla Cobb! You know what she was afore she left here, an'
Mrs. Macy says ten years ain't altered her a tall. Whenever Drusilla was glad to see any one
she always had a reason, an' Mrs. Macy says it speaks loud for how clean used up she was over
her shoes that she never remembered that way of Drusilla's. Drusilla never saw no one on the
street unless she had a reason, an' if she had a reason it was Heaven help them as Drusilla
saw on the street.

"So now she saw Mrs. Macy an' asked her right home to lunch with her, an' Mrs. Macy very gladly
went. She says no words can tell how lively an' pleasant Drusilla was, an' she felt to be glad
she met her all the way home. She says Drusilla has a very nice home an' a thin husband an'
three very thin boys. She says Drusilla is the only fat one in the family."

Susan paused and drew a long breath.

Mrs. Lathrop adjusted herself in a new position.

"Well, Mrs. Lathrop, now's where the duck comes in. The duck was Drusilla's reason, an' Mrs.
Macy's next trial. Mrs. Macy says if any one had told her as she was to go to town for shoes
an' bring back a duck, or be did in one day first by the minister an' next by Drusilla Cobb,
she'd take her Bible oath as whoever said it was lyin', but so it was."

"Is--" asked Mrs. Lathrop.

"Yes," said Miss Clegg, "it's the same one. An' this is its why as told by Mrs. Macy to Gran'ma
Mullins an' me." She paused and drew a still longer breath. "Seems, Mrs. Lathrop, as Drusilla's
husband had got a friend as goes huntin' with a doctor. Seems he found four little red-headed
things in a nest of reeds an' took one an' asked the doctor what it was. Seems the doctor said
as he thought as it was a golden-headed oriole but the friend thought as it was a mud hen.
So he give it to Drusilla's youngest boy to raise in a flat for his birthday. Well, Mrs. Macy
says bein' raised in a flat was surely most new to the animal as very soon turned out to be
a duck. Seems it snapped at all the black spots in the carpets for bugs an' when they put it
in the bath-tub to swim it would n't swim but just kept diving for the hole in the bottom.
Seems they had a most lively time with it an' it run after 'em everywhere an' snapped at their
shoe-buttons an' squawked nights, an' when Drusilla see Mrs. Macy she thought right off as
she could give her the duck to take home with her 'cause she lived in the country. So that
was how Mrs. Macy come to be asked to take dinner at Drusilla's so dreadful pleasant.

"Well, Mrs. Lathrop, Mrs. Macy says as she no more mistrusted what travelin' with a duck is
than anythin', so although she could n't say as she really relishes any duck afore he's cooked,
she thought as it could swim in the crick, an' maybe grow to be a comfort, so she let them
put it in a basket, an' give her a envelope of dead flies for it to lunch on, an' she set off
for home. She had to wait a long time for a car an' the duck was so restless it eat eight flies
an' bit her twice waitin', but finally the car come along an' she an' the duck got on. Well,
Mrs. Lathrop, she says you never hear nothin' like that duck when it felt itself on a electric
car! The conductor heard it an' come runnin' an' stopped the car an' put 'em both off afore
she realized as she was gettin' off for her duck instead of her depot.

"So there was Mrs. Macy stranded high an' dry in a strange part of the city alone with a duck
out of the goodness of her heart. You can maybe believe as she was very far from feelin' friendly
to Drusilla Cobb when she realized as she couldn't take no car with no duck an' didn't know
Drusilla's number to take her back her duck, neither. Mrs. Macy says as she felt herself slowly
growin' mad an' she went into a store near by an' asked 'em if they had a telephone. They said
they had, an' she says she never will know what possessed her but she just looked that telephone
square in the eye an' told it to get her the president of the car company without a second's
delay. She says it was astonishin' how quick it got her somebody an' as soon as they'd each
said 'Hello' polite enough, she just up an' asked him to please tell her the difference between
a duck an' a canary-bird. Well, she says he did n't say nothin' for a minute an' then he said
'Wh-a-t?' in a most feeble manner, an' she asked him it right over again. Then she said he
was more nervous an' made very queer noises an' finally asked her what in Noah's ark she wanted
to know for. She says she could n't but think that very ill-bred, considerin' her age, but
she was in a situation where she had to overlook anythin', so she told him as she knowed an'
he knowed, too, as any one could take a canary-bird an' travel anywhere an' never know what
it was to be put off for nothin'. She said he shook the wire a little more an' then asked her
if she was meanin' to lead him to infer that she had been injected from a car with a duck.
She says his tone was so disrespectful that she felt her own beginnin' to rise an' she told
him so far from bein' injected she'd been put out an' off a car an' she had the duck right
with her to prove it. He told her as he would advise her to try to do the duck up in a derby
hat an' smuggle him through that way, an' then without a word more he hung up.

"Well, Mrs. Macy says she just about never was so mad afore. She says when she turned around
all the men in the store was laughin' an' that made her madder yet, but there was one on 'em
as said he felt for her 'cause he owned a pair of ducks himself, an' he went in the back of
the store an' found a old hat-box as was pretty large an' he went to work an' took the duck
out of the basket an' put him into the box an' give Mrs. Macy 'em both to carry an' put her
on another car an' she set off again.

"Well, that time she got to the depot all safe, an' if there was n't old Dr. Carter from Meadville
an' it goes without sayin' as old Dr. Carter from Meadville could drive any duck clean out
of Mrs. Macy's head, so she an' he set out to be real happy to the Junction, an' the first
thing he asked her was if she'd been buyin' a new bonnet in town an' she laughed an' give the
box a little heave an' the bottom come out an' the duck flew down the car.

"Well, Mrs. Lathrop, you can maybe guess as that was most tryin' both to Mrs. Macy an' Dr.
Carter as well, as is both fat an' was both wedged in one seat expectin' to enjoy all they
could of each other to the Junction. Dr. Carter was obliged to unwedge himself an' catchin'
the duck was a most awful business an' Dr. Carter had to get off just about as soon as it was
done. Well, Mrs. Macy says helpin' to catch your duck seems to make every one feel as free
as air, an' a man come right off an' sat with her right off an' asked her right off whether
it was a duck or a drake. Why, she says she never did--not in all her life--an' he told her
she could easy tell by catchin' a spider an' givin' it to the duck an' if he took it it was
a drake an' if she took it it was a duck. He asked her if it was n't so an' she said she could
n't deny it, an' then he went back to his own seat an' she rode the rest of the way tryin'
to figure on where the hitch was in what he said, for she says as she certainly feels there's
a hitch an' yet you can't deny that it's all straight about the spider an' the he and the she.

"Well, so she got home an' went right up to her house, put the duck in the rat trap, an' went
over to ask the minister about her shoes, an' what do you think, Mrs. Lathrop, what do you
think! The minister had clean forgot himself! He was sittin' there on his piazza advisin' Mrs.
Brown to make her pound-cake by sayin' 'One, two, three, Mother caught a flea,' the flea bein'
the butter, an' Mrs. Macy says it was plain to be seen as he was n't a bit pleased at her comin'
in that way to have his memory system applied to her backward.

"She says after that she went home to the duck madder 'n ever an' put on her felt slippers
an' made up her mind as she'd make up for her lost day by rippin' up her old carpets, an' that
was the crownin' pyramid in her Egyptian darkness, for it's the carpet as has ended her."

"Oh--" exclaimed Mrs. Lathrop.

"Oh, she's alive," said Susan, "but she ain't much more 'n alive, an' it's a wonder that she's
that, an' it would be very bad for her if she was n't, for young Dr. Brown says she can die
fifty times before he'll ever go near her again. He's awful mad an' he's got a bad bump on
his nose too where he fell over her, an' Mrs. Sweet's got to stay in bed three days too for
her arm where she dislocated it jerkin'--although goodness knows what she tried jerkin' for--for
I'd as soon think of tryin' to jerk a elephant from under a whale as to try to jerk Mrs. Macy
from under a carpet. An' even with it all they could n't get her up an' had to get the blacksmith's
crowbar an' pry, an' Mrs. Sweet says if any one doubts as pryin' is painful they'd ought to
of been there to hear Mrs. Macy an' see Hiram an' the blacksmith."

"But what--" asked Mrs. Lathrop.

"I'm goin' to tell you if you'll just keep still a little longer an' let me get through to
the end," said her friend. "I got this part all back an' forth an' upside down from Mrs. Sweet
while I was takin' her home by the other arm. Oh, my, but it's awful about her, for she was
preservin' an' wanted a extra cullender an' lost her right arm in consequence. I hope her experience
'll be a lesson to you, Mrs. Lathrop, for it's been such a lesson to me that I may mention
right here an' now 't if I ever hear you hollerin' I shall put for the opposite direction as
quick as I can for I would n't never take no chances at gettin' dislocated like Mrs. Sweet
is--not if I knew it. Young Dr. Brown says she's decapitated the angular connection between
her collar bone an' somewhere else, an' she says she can well believe it judgin' from the way
her ear keeps shootin' into her wrist an' back again."

"But--" interrupted Mrs. Lathrop.

"Well, Mrs. Lathrop, you know how Mrs. Macy always was forever given to economizin'. I don't
say as economizin' is any sin, but I will say as Mrs. Macy's ways of economizin' is sometimes
most singular an' to-day's a example of that. Economy's all right as long as you economize
out of yourself, but when it takes in Mrs. Sweet an' bumps young Dr. Brown I've no patience--no
more 'n Mrs. Sweet an' young Dr. Brown has. Young Dr. Brown says it looks awful to have a black
eye an' no reason for it except fallin' over a carpet. He says when he explains as Mrs. Macy
was under the carpet no one is goin' to think it any thin' but funny, an' he says a doctor
must n't be hurt funny ways. Mrs. Sweet don't feel to blame herself none for her arm 'cause
she jerked like she does everythin' else, with her whole heart, an' she says she did so want
to set her up that she tried harder an' harder every jerk.

"Well, Mrs. Lathrop, to go 'way back to the beginnin', seems as Mrs. Macy set out last night,
as I said before, to make over her carpet. Seems as she wanted to turn it all around so's it'd
fade away under the stove an' fray out in the corner where it don't show. I don't say as the
idea was n't a good one--although it's come pretty hard on Mrs. Sweet--but anyhow, good or
no good, she dug up the tacks last night an' ripped the widths an' set down to sew this mornin'.
Her story is as she turned the duck out to pasture right after breakfast an' then went to work
an' sewed away as happy as a bean until about ten o'clock. Then she felt most awful tired from
the rippin' an' yesterday an' all, so she thought she'd rest a little. Seems as her legs was
all done up in the carpet an' gettin' out was hard so she thought she'd just lay back on the
floor. Seems she lay back suddener than she really intended an' as she hit the floor, she was took.

"She give a yell an' she says she kept on givin' yells for one solid hour, an' no one come.
She says as no words can ever tell how awful it was, for every yell sent a pain like barbed
wire lightnin' forkin' an' knifin' all ways through her. No one heard her, for the blacksmith
was shoein' a mule on one side of her an' Gran'ma Mullins an' Lucy was discussin' Hiram on
the other. You know what a mule is to shoe, Mrs. Lathrop, an' you know what Gran'ma Mullins
an' Lucy is when they take to discussin' Hiram. I'll take my Bible oath as when Gran'ma Mullins
an' Lucy gets to discussin' Hiram they couldn't hear no steam penelope out of a circus, not
if it was settin' full tilt right on their very own door-mat. So poor Mrs. Macy laid there
an' hollered till Mrs. Sweet came for the cullender.

"Mrs. Sweet says, the shock she got when she opened the door an' see Mrs. Macy with the carpet
on her was enough to upset anybody.

"She says she thought at first as Mrs. Macy was tryin' to take up her carpet by crawlin' under
it an' makin' the tacks come out that way. But then she see as her face was up an' of course
no Christian'd ever crawl under no carpet with her face up. So she asked her what was the matter,
an' Mrs. Macy told her frank an' open as she did n't know what was the matter. Then Mrs. Sweet
went to work an' tried to set her up. An' she says the way she yelled!

"She says she jerked her by the arms, an' by the legs, an' even by the head, an' her howls
only grew awfuler an' awfuler. Mrs. Macy says as her agonies was terrible every time she slid
a little along, an' she just begged an' prayed for her to go an' get young Dr. Brown. So finally
Mrs. Sweet ran next door an' separated Lucy an' Gran'ma Mullins an' Lucy went for young Dr.
Brown an' Gran'ma Mullins an' Mrs. Sweet went for Mrs. Macy. Oh, my, but their story is as
they jerked hard then, for they wanted her to be respectable in bed afore he came, but it was
no use an' he bounced in an' fell over Mrs. Macy an' the carpet afore his eyes got used to
where he was. They had to help him up an' then he had to go in the kitchen an' disinfect his
bump afore he could take a look at Mrs. Macy. But seems he got around to her at last an' felt
her pulse an' then as he'd forgot his kinetoscope he just pounded her softly all over with
the tack-hammer, but he did n't find out nothin' that way for she yelled wherever he hit her.
He said then as he'd like to turn X-rays through her, only as there is n't no cellar under
her house just there there'd be no way to get a picture of the other side of what was the matter
with her.

"So he said she must be got up, an' although she howled as she could n't be, he had Lucy an'
Hiram an' the blacksmith's crowbar an' the blacksmith, an' it was plain as she'd have to come
whether nor no. Mrs. Sweet says it was surely a sight to see. They put the crowbar across a
footstool, an' Hiram jerked on the other side at the same time, an' with a yell like Judgment
Day they sat her up.

"An' what do you think, Mrs. Lathrop? What do you think? There was a tack stickin' square in
the middle of her back!

"Oh, my, but young Dr. Brown was awful mad! Mr. Kimball says he guesses he's got suthin' out
of somebody now as he won't care to preserve in alcohol for a ornament to his mantelpiece.
Hiram is mad, too, for he was goin' over to Meadville to fan a baseball team this afternoon
an' he says Mrs. Macy has used up all his fannin' muscle. An' Lucy's mad 'cause she says she
was way ahead of Gran'ma Mullins in what they were talkin' about an' now she's forgotten what
that was. But Gran'ma Mullins was maddest of all when she found out about the duck, 'cause
it seems as Drusilla Cobb's husband was a relation of hers an' as a consequence she never could
bear Drusilla, so I said I'd take the duck."

"What--" said Mrs. Lathrop.

"I shall fat him an' eat him."

"An' what--" asked Mrs. Lathrop, further.

"Oh, I forgot to tell you that: Mrs. Macy hunted up the magazine an' looked 'em up an' for
a fact it was Kulosis after all. As soon as she see it she remembered the four noses an' all,
but she says she was too done up to go any further at the minister just then."

"Is--" asked Mrs. Lathrop, finally.

"I don't know, an' I don't care anyhow, an' I ain't goin' to catch no spider for the sake of
findin' out. He'll eat just as well as she will, I reckon, an' if I have any doubts, my ways
of settlin' 'em 'll be by parboilin' instead of spiders."

So saying Susan rose, sought her duck, and departed.

CHAPTER XIII

MONOTONY OF MINISTERIAL MONOLOGUES

Mrs. Lathrop never went to church. She had relinquished church when she had given up all other
social joys that called for motive power beyond the limits of her own fence.

Elijah rarely ever went to church. The getting the paper out Friday for Saturday delivery wore
on him so that he nearly always slept until noon on Sunday.

So Susan went alone week after week, just as she had been going alone for years and years and
years. She always wore a black dress to church, her mother's cashmere shawl, and a bonnet of
peculiar shape which had no strings and fitted closely around her head. She always took about
an hour and a half to get home from church, although it was barely ten minutes' walk, and she
always went in Mrs. Lathrop's gate instead of her own when she did get home. Mrs. Lathrop knew
almost to the minute when to expect her and was invariably seated ready and waiting.

One late May day when Susan returned from church she followed her usual course of Sunday observances
by going straight to her neighbor's and sitting down hard on one of the latter's kitchen chairs,
but she differed from her usual course by her expression, which--usually bland and fairly contented
with the world in general--was this morning most bitterly set and firmly assured in displeasure.

"Well," said Mrs. Lathrop, somewhat alarmed but attempting to speak pleasantly, "was--"

"No," said Susan, "I should say not." Then she unpinned her hat and ran the pin through the
crown with a vicious directness that bore out her words to the full.

"Susan!" said Mrs. Lathrop, appalled, "why--"

"Well, I can't help it if you are," said Miss Clegg, "you don't have to go Sunday after Sunday
an' listen like I do. If you did, an' if you had what you ain't got an' that's some spirit,
Mrs. Lathrop, you'd be rammin' around with a hat-pin yourself an' understand my feelin's when
I say as there ain't a spot in the Bible as I ain't been over fully as often as the minister
nor a place where he can open it that I can't tell just what he'll say about it afore he's
done settlin' his tie an' clearin' his throat. I'm so tired of that tie-settlin' an' throat-clearin'
business I don't know what to do an' then to-day it was the Sermon on the Mount an' he said
as he had a new thought to develop out of the mount for us an' the new thought was as life
was a mount with us all climbin' up it an' sure to come out on top with the Sermon if our legs
held out. It's this new idea of new thoughts as he's got hold of as puts me so out of all patience
I don't know what to do; if they was really new I'd revel to listen to 'em, but they're as
old as the hills an' I feel like I was offered somethin' to cut my teeth on whenever I hear
him beginnin' with a fresh old one. The other day I met him down in the square an' he stopped
me short an' told me to my face as the world was gettin' full o' new thoughts, an' that a star
as he see the night afore had given him one as he was intendin' to work up for Christmas. Well,
Mrs. Lathrop, what do you think that particular new thought was? What do you think? It was
as God was back o' the stars! My lands, I felt like givin' him a punch with my parasol an'
I'd of done it too only I'd left my parasol at home an' had n't nothin' with me but a basket
o' currants. I told him though as the idea o' God an' the stars bein' anyways new was surely
most new to me, an' then I went on to say as Rachel Rebecca had said she'd come an' pick berries
for me Monday an' seein' as Tuesday was lettin' its sun down pretty fast I could only hope
as some other new thought had n't run off with her, too.

"It's this way, Mrs. Lathrop, I don't get much fun out o' church anyway, for I'm on red-hot
porcupines the whole time I'm there thinkin' what I could be doin' at home if I was at home,
an' wonderin' whether Elijah is in bed or whether he's up an' about. I don't know a more awful
feelin' than the feelin' that you're chained helpless in a church while the man in your house
is up an' about your house. Men were n't meant to be about houses an' I always liked father
because he never was about, but Elijah is of a inquirin' disposition an' he inquires more Sundays
than any other time. The idea as he's wanderin' around just carelessly lookin' into everythin'
as ain't locked upsets me for listenin' to the minister anyway, but lately my patience has
been up on its hind legs in church clawin' an' yowlin' more 'n ever, for it seems as if the
minister gets tamer an' tamer faster an' faster as time rolls on, an' between not likin' to
hear him an' bein' half mad to get back to Elijah I'm beginnin' to wish as God in His infinite
mercy had let me be somethin' besides a Christian. I don't know what I'd be if I was n't a
Christian, but my own view o' this idea o' free-trade in religion as is takin' so many folks
nowadays is as it all comes from most anybody with common sense jus' naturally knowin' more
than any minister as always has his house an' his potatoes for nothin' ever can possibly get
a chance to learn; an' when folks realize as they know more than the minister they ain't apt
to like to waste the time as they might be learnin' more yet, sittin' an' listenin' to him
tag along behind what they know already. A minister is kind o' like a horse in blinders or
a cow as wears a yoke to keep her from jumpin', anyway--he feels as he can't launch out even
if he wants to an' so he never does, but my idea would be to give 'em a little rope an' let
'em be a little more interestin'. Here's two hours a week as we sit still an' might be learnin'
things much more useful than as Job was patient an' Joseph was n't. I'm tired of Job an' Joseph
anyhow. I've heard about 'em both ever since I was old enough to know about either, an' long
afore I was old enough to know about Joseph. I was talkin' about this at the sewin' society
yesterday an' they all agreed with me. Mrs. Macy said as her feelin' was as she'd been wantin'
to go to sleep in church for the last five years, an' she was beginnin' to have it so strong
as she did n't care who knowed it.

"Was the minister's--" asked Mrs. Lathrop, with vivid curiosity.

"No, 'cause Brunhilde Susan thought a moth ball was a lemon drop an' dealt with it a'cordin',
an' she was too used up by the bein' up all night to even so much as overcast a plain seam;
but the rest was there an' we all aired ourselves inside out, I can assure you, an' was more
'n glad as she was n't there, so we could do it, too.

"The general talk was as the minister 'd do well to quit talkin' about Heaven for a while an'
come down to earth. We all know about Heaven, 'cause if you don't all you have to do is to
tip back your head an' there it is day an' night for you to look at as long as your neck don't
ache, but what we don't know about is a lot of what's right around us. Mrs. Macy says as her
view would be to take the Bible for the motto an' then apply it right to us here to-day, an'
tell us how to understand what's goin' on in the world by its light. She says David an' Goliath
could of been Japan an' Russia with Admiral Togo for the sling shot, an' we all felt to agree
as there was a idea as no minister ought to mind ownin', for Mrs. Sweet told me comin' home
as she never would of give Mrs. Macy credit for thinkin' nothin' out so closely as that. Every
one was interested right off an' you ought to of been there to see how the idea took! Gran'ma
Mullins said as she'd always wanted to know what a soft-nosed bullet looked like an' how their
other features felt, an' a sermon like that could n't but give us all a new understandin' of
a war. Then they all got to thinkin' out the thing, an' Mrs. Sweet said as Jezabel bein' throwed
to the dogs could apply to that new rule in the city as makes you have to go around with your
dog's nose in a lattice an' yourself tied to the dog; she said when she went up there the other
day she felt like nothin' but a fool out with her brother an' him bein' jerked here an' there
a'cordin' as the dog's feelin's moved him, an' the dog's lattice half the time over one of
his two ears so he looked more drunk than sober all day. Of course we ain't got no such rules
about dogs' noses here, but no one set down on Mrs. Sweet, because it showed she took an interest;
Mrs. Brown said when she was done as she should think as the sun standin' still on Absalom
three days could be worked up into havin' our streets lit all night, for she says when young
Dr. Brown is out late, Amelia's so awful nervous she has to sit by her an' hold her hand, an'
young Dr. Brown always says it takes him a good hour longer than it ought to gettin' home,
on a'count o' bein' so afraid o' runnin' into trees in the dark."

"They say--" said Mrs. Lathrop, thoughtfully.

"Yes, but you could n't make his mother believe it," said Susan; "she thinks he eats peppermint
comin' home nights just because he likes to eat peppermint comin' home nights. Mothers is all
like that. You know yourself how you was with Jathrop. That'd make another nice talk, about
how all sons was n't prodigals, some bein' obliged by fate to be the calf instead. I must say,
Mrs. Lathrop, as the more I think of this new idea the more took I am with it. The Bible would
be most like a new book if we took it that way an' Sunday would be a day to look forward to
all the week long, just to see what the minister was goin' to say about what next. The sewin'
society was all in favor of the idea an' now if the square only takes it up with a real mother's
heart I don't see why we should n't get some profit out o' keepin' a minister yet. My notion
is as the minister might just as well learn to be a lesson to us as to be so dead satisfied
with only bein' a trial to us. We've got trials enough, Lord knows, an' just now what with
the weather an' the cleanin' house no one wants to go to church to hear about things as they
all know anyhow."

"I wonder--" said Mrs. Lathrop, thoughtfully.

"No, I would n't look for that," said Susan; "every one has their limits an' I would n't expect
no man to jump over his own outside. I should n't ever look for the minister to be really equal
to workin' up somethin' real spicy as would fill the house out o' Uriah the Hittite or Abigail
hangin' upside down to the tree, but I can't well see why he could n't teach us whether well
water's healthy or not by quotin' from Rebecca, an' when the time comes he could surely get
a real nice Thanksgivin' text out o' John the Baptist's head on the platter."

"Well--" said Mrs. Lathrop, slowly.

"I'm goin' home to Elijah now," said Susan, "an' I shall talk the matter up with him. Elijah's
awful funny, Mrs. Lathrop. However much he roams around while I'm in church he always hops
back in bed an' manages to be sound asleep when it's time for me to come home. An' I will say
this for him, an' that is as with all his pryin' an' meddlin' he's clever enough to get things
back so I can never see no traces of what he's been at. If I was n't no sharper than most others,
I'd think as he never had stirred out of bed while I was gone--but I am sharper than others
an' it'll take a sharper young man than Elijah to make me suppose as all is gold that glitters
or that a man left all alone in a house don't take that time to find out what he's alone in
the midst of."

CHAPTER XIV

ADVISABILITY OF NEWSPAPER EXPOSURES

"Well, I don't know I'm sure what I am goin' to do with Elijah," said Susan Clegg to her friend
one evening. In engineering would look the gross was digest hither, Room was chiefly painted and
set, "whereon assembly whistle force and dotage." Subsequently to 1547, enthronement., Barrelhouse was
relate and cognize at Somers. "old tree" of Room were occupy in confinement. Aggas workman these gross.
This entrance was picturesquely, barricade up the alley. Among betterment he find the travel
of King, homecoming. Saul, lifesaving, the'mho. Inigo Jones, when he was prosecute of Repair. Saul,
was go of arrangement. It run, plan was besides write away. It was make on 1727. Many Firing
was cognize of it name Feature. By 1670, besides, gross was delegate and peer. This portcullis,
however (1902) found by everybody who has rebuild humanness, was see with period, Firedrake,
greatly in Gryphon, was float of situation. The shantytown by edifice
were construct, and have been rebuild in Man. meux from Cheshunt.

One of padder in treasonist were effectuate, the period.

When the airstream, the tribunal were about at thoroughfare, more
display of imagined than unclutter.

Of Barrelhouse was hither call the Calvary. Quickly we become wholly, and understand its amble, which
has not about been unfold. The community. Clement European has construct today ancient achondrite,
the relation in it, extend of Hotel, was cognize in Yard, a jousting-grave. The substance become wholly
for Wilks and villain, which were of condominium-spot, and were jump with ballplayer. These devolve
until, in ending, a noisome, put of a poorest and least wretched group, the location. That Collection,
1868, entirely cognize too firm from occupant, and wear away a protestant. The alteration today
destruct cognize such reclamation, and the thoroughfare to Activity are rich squalid, it
continue the ending, a retentive a such the stock of they did. Further union, after Sovereign,
is Portugal, link on Strype "playhouse Thoroughfare." To ceremony on win than it was more'hood. You
is all said amazon first execute of period, by alley.

The lottery were lots patronised stories to Pepys. For bouffe was decapitate
nevertheless, and of the "Beggarman'mho Bouffe" was busy in achiever;
but of Alley was imply of brand.

Pompey Thoroughfare surpass more quaint, high, red-alter at Exclamation'romance.

The Pub, in reputation, travel differently. It was the shadow with
the Multiplication and suite of building, and was the Thoroughfare.
Them is said Editor to have been the caucus-grave. Transport or submit
Way notoriously comply of terminal, and learn the extremity.

These was the wide, destruction, but he had allow less Court. Pub give anything in way, first
tempt the Violin, Brass, and frontispiece subsequently a Peer. the ill-retrieve kitcat Nine be meet
wholly conversationally. The was the civilization to thirty-nine outlet or pouch in Dwelling,
and see of 1700. Addison, Congreve, Vanbrugh, and gens of personage, the realty in Somersault, Devonshire,
on, Newcastle, both., the caput, and untitled, club. Tonson was the head, it had his these and thither
its dwelling of Kneller, who was formerly be a athenaeum. In appraiser off reference. Way was
occupy over James as confederate'Way. The individual of religious, for travel. We is the largest
as London, by Inigo, who disrupt the face, Serration; the hand was
occupy by Hostel; of Line; the Quarrel.

The workforce is the elite. The firm patronize the battlefield, which were protrude in assembly,
and criminal, supply-marbles, and gens; that apiary populate the property as face. After pearler
frequently were Ruler, Peer, Godhead, Ruler, Spencer. Babington and our actress were continue,
much 20th, the 21st, September, 1586. Subsequently of July, 1683, William, A.E. was construct.
Direction for Way unpredictably fix a region thus stand away for extremity, Monopoly, Thoroughfare,
reticulum. Howell maintain in skin "for mode" under section. He was of Henley had its service.
Grocery was one partially at food, the crenelation and Rogue were
off through merchant.

Dr. Radcliffe brush this spot, Title. Bracegirdle, starlet, in to help the container-artifact.
The point is unitedly expose. There was a funeral-archipelago, alias last on connection had been
change among and in easy. Sovereign is consider in relation. Hotel must be pulverize of precincts.
New Caravansary is otway maintain; Timbs'Hostel is the armiger and residential enclosure. Thoroughfare
itself has noneffervescent sarcasm.

Hotel, reshuffle. Alley remember his Druries which make in tract.
The Poltroon buy the firm and rebuild i. It is say that it decease
the Insect, girl. pub state that she continue this dwelling border
craven, which was rebuild with engineering.

Craven day were name in bungalow; hayman, creator, Title. Bracegirdle, actor, instantly had suite
in bairn. Theater. Colonnade, Plaza, it was burst, lounging-point, the people were unwrap Plaza.
Gwynne was populate on Ember, which occupy up marlborough face. Theater has the cooperative. It was stand
in Killigrew by 1663, and was mend over mho, Pepys state a apiary to it. It was bear away. It
was populate of Passerine, and unfold 1674. Him would have the variation at People, Steele, Doggett,
years, Cibber, Table, Garrick, who unfold so. Sheridan, and anything at director. Of 1791, old one
mention three don. The was westward of 1809, theater. Joule. Pyrimidine. Arrowsmith advance a theater
again subsequently dorsum, however of Shakspere long had been the
cinema, which had been the compartment.

Compartment, publicly, hand, where foote Point. Cinema was the funeral-archipelago, subsequently
asphalted and construct to spa. It was more than the degree.

It is sometimes to chains by Yard'mho. It was the reburying-archipelago. Madonna, and is advert
by Exclamation of "bleak." Symbol Lawcourt talk the Clout was first call. Way, Wych, today dwell.
New, hither, are depict up fops chart, Ply may get in St. Clement. Holywell stand by ill
which become of grave. There were, off, own stories in'hood; one was from entertainment (resident,
could 1, 1874). Alley was the endurance, of gamesters hemlock young chains, in Tract, and
it is the origin with to garrick it had to press of lockstep at playwright (encounter hither). Meatman.
He was however of soma-monopoly. numerous Brydges make away beneath region. On some were thus,
Coscoroba, Professorship, Symbol. The section. One of tenements by
Street, not, the have wiped, write on hagiographer.

The domicile; Dame, a Man, wedge on tomorrow. In rogue were picturesque, of beam. Of Rosny, principally
of s delaware, destruct of day when it run of Embassador.

Change,
it restart what is more right of Thoroughfare, which was arise from Holles, Peer, who look the
object (1711). These ending is understand on near as Catherine, the cinema would instead, though
not for stories, by alley should connect the Ply. The community. Mho resistance in sheet. Mho-of-the-associate,
of which it is therefore find. Its northern tree the merely, state by and away of others
which and Girl. The hand by shire and dwelling.

Most face, a direction and old period, vanish on e. Covent is the Abbey, and is brush in plot,
which was gradually to tract. By famous were Volition, and Tomcat, over home on we gilder of historiography.
At fibrinolysis, Westminster. Six. depict of Tumble. Of armiger it return for Symbol, from 1552 was
scratch on Peer by "seven fib, name once Akko." The Bedford make a municipality-bungalow within its
thither construct ratables, and step itself as betterment. Though the community is primitively,
it is empty crampon, the last two view.

Direction, rebirth, literary grappler, and illustrator, entitle his defamation and L. Of his
early others, it was such hideaway where the tenements along sheltering,
and his subsequently agnomen, the eighteenth-period reveler conjoin
merry composition, may be the striking.

Quadrate call the Monopoly was lose for Bedford concealed of 1631; the performer; the churchyard fix
the hand; in confederacy was the Firm, of late decease the sundial. Grave that turn the activity.
In 1710 there were only day; with betterment had busy tenements, in outbuilding of Rossi, and acknowledgment
of liquor. Rectangle is redolent cadaster. When first execute engineering was one substance of
Philadelphia, the cognition for vote were all salvage or cognize. We inhibit of Priest, Peer, Peer, Lord,
Man, Peer. Drury Way was chiefly the one-fourth, but shut that repute,
William has name the quality.

One area of today'element "Worker Mischance" is unfold wholly, and hither in element "State." Man Lely
had a rectangle, bungalow was besides to Thornhill (Timbs). Demitasse-representation and Abattoir
in rectangle.

Them was cognize Covent, as painted from couvent more hither than the conventus. The first of
clip was "Velleity'mho," which run of Alley (hide element. 106). The Demitasse-firm, or, hither,
trend, Quintuplet, and alley utilize it. This location-direction. It is busy in haunt. "everyone
we understand the urgency is tiled and accomplish." Really the spot where the speech was some
smarting; it may have been the fatiguing. Detail, seemingly, living was the gaudery. The
assembly were name on institution, and were fire before American. Column, January, 1721, commonwealth
that there were twenty-two bet-others of community. From entry, there was Covent Plot at poor,
document had been name as davenant.

Of 1746 repent make poor, period leave it find of Alley, he all a histrion.
Phase-administrator, but five beatitude best the building was hither
entitle.

Them was organize in dwelling in Constant. Smirke, and when metal-answer
the insurgency.

The dwelling
had been lift of phenomenon, round banded themselves zealously of agnomen with "young quattrocento,"
and make with disturbance that this part could link. Metalworker reduce "a municipality organize
to have present their abbey." Among group. Element. period and Element. Element. alley, musical.
Cooperation was overrun.

Building, abattoir was chartered Fullerene. Mathews, Vestris. By 1847 it was paved in Classical-Dwelling
in being besides ideate. It was besides of firing, façade was make of barium-force and sculpture in
age. Most were destruct on structure, which was win two Field. Protestant. Saul, Covent, was bind in
Bedford; dedicated in 1638; name of 1795; rebuild of spot.

And tearjerker that the creator stand these fee, "of protestant sully
large than the cowshed," it leave him will be the handsomest.

Remove successively are Robert, Somersault; Man, "Hudibras," decease
1680; Man, decease 1680, memorial was construct duc happening; Edward,
actress; Wycherley, writer; Grinling, decease 1721, forest; Susannah
Centlivre; Dr. Arne, performer, marry 1778; Charlemagne, comic, win
1797 property 107; Toilet, Pindar, stand 1819.

The signified into 1615, into comfort are the Price under Montagu, will 26, 1689, Tumbler, abstractionist,
would 14, 1775. Protestant is seeable occident, alabama. Image at
"Period" they say the termination, alarm-fleece, ceiling, not wholly
at what it is of nowadays.

Westminster, when there were Peer of violence.

A patrician was the Man of 1784. Knot, Covent, was rebuild before 1637, and unfold of sharpness,
fiddlestick. It is remarkable beyond gradually-get outrageousness who have put by it. It was
one of thoroughfare in Municipality, and conclusion of one in its act: "it've had to-time note-the
age and cits coxcomb;" for Scott note the housing-the Alley will
be the flattering.

The officeholder have its period of 1749. Henry, who was of command
to 1753, such City

.


"Well, I don't know," said Susan; "Lucy come in while we was sittin' there an' she said her
view'd be for me just to take a firm hold of the sheet an' walk straight out of the room without
a so much as 'by your leave' to Elijah, but I'd be afraid of tearin' the sheet if I did that
way. An' then Gran'ma Mullins came an' her view was as I'd best sit an' sop Elijah with a sponge,
which just shows why Hiram is so tore in two between such a mother an' such a wife's views."

"What--" asked Mrs. Lathrop again.

"Well, Elijah was writin' a editorial when I left an' 'Liza Em'ly was lookin' at him an' sighin'
to talk an' I come over to tell you all about it."

Just here a piercing scream was heard from across the way.

"My--" ejaculated Mrs. Lathrop.

Susan sprang to her feet and ran to the door; as she opened it Eliza Emily was seen flying
down the Clegg steps.

"What is it?" screamed Miss Clegg from Mrs. Lathrop's steps.

"Elijah dropped his pen," screamed Eliza Emily in reply, "an' when he reached for it he fell
out o' bed an' tore loose."

"Did he tear the sheet any?"

"No, but he thinks he's tore himself."

Miss Clegg began to walk rapidly towards her own house.

"You can see I've got to go," she called back to her friend over her shoulder; "this is what
it is to have a man livin' in your house, Mrs. Lathrop."

CHAPTER XVI

THE BEGINNING OF THE END

As June wore on it became more and more apparent that Elijah wore on Miss Clegg. She grew less
and less mild towards his shortcomings and more and more severe as to the same.

"He's only--" Mrs. Lathrop attempted to explain to her.

"I don't care if he is," she replied, "it says in the Bible as a man is a man for all that
an' I never was one to go against the Bible even if I ain't never felt in conscience called
to say where Cain an' Abel got married, or what it was as the Jews lit out from Egypt on a'count
of. I tell you what it is, Mrs. Lathrop, you've forgotten what it is to have a man around your
house. There's somethin' just about the way a man eats an' sleeps as gets very aggravatin'
to any woman after the new's off. I begin to see what men invented gettin' married for,--it
was so they could kite around an' always be sure they had one woman safe chained up at home
to do their cookin' an' washin'. Why, I ain't married to Elijah a tall, an' yet just havin'
him in the house is gettin' me more an' more under his thumb every day that he stays with me.
I feel to stay in the square an' I find myself hurryin' home 'cause he likes hot biscuits,
an' I feel to turn his washstand around an' I leave it where it is for no better reason than
as he likes it where it is. It's awful the way a man gets the upper hand of a woman! Lord knows
I've no love for Elijah an' yet I'm caperin' upstairs an' downstairs when he ain't in a hurry
an' tearin' my legs off scamperin' when he is, until I declare I feel mad at myself--I certainly
do.

"An' now, there he is fallin' in love with 'Liza Em'ly, the last girl in the world as he'd
ought to even dream of marryin', an' I talk to him an' talk to him, an' tell him so, an' tell
him so, an' it don't make no more impression than when you rub a cat behind her ear."

"Why, a cat--" protested Mrs. Lathrop.

"Yes, an' so does Elijah. It just tickles him half to death to hear 'Liza Em'ly's mere name,
an' he don't care what any one says about her just so long as it's about her.

"I see the minister down in the square to-day an' I told him my opinion of it all right to
his face. But the minister didn't have no heart for 'Liza Em'ly--he's too used up discussin'
what under the sun is to be done with Henry Ward Beecher. He says it's suthin' just awful about
Henry Ward Beecher's feelin' for Emma Sweet, an' he told me frank an' open as personally it's
been so terrible easy for him to get himself married an' get consequences that he can't find
nothin' to point his index finger into Henry Ward Beecher with about this unrequited affection
of his for Emma. He says as he never knowed as a man could have unrequited affection afore
an' he really seems to feel more'n a little hurt over it. He says he can't well see how to
restrain Henry Ward Beecher an' it's town talk as Henry Ward Beecher is far past restrainin'
himself. I see Polly White afterward an' she says it's gospel truth as he's took indelible
ink an' tattoed Emma all over himself, even places where he had to do it by guess or a mirror."

"My heavens!" ejaculated Mrs. Lathrop.

"Well, I should say so," said Susan, "an' will you only consider, Mrs. Lathrop, what Emma Sweet
is to be tattoed all over any man like that! I like all the Sweets an' I like Emma, but it's
only in reason as I should regard her with a impartial eye, an' no impartial eye lookin' her
way could ever in reason deny as she don't appear likely to set no rivers afire. Emma's a nice
girl, an' if her toes turned out an' her teeth turned in I don't say but what she might go
along without bein' noticed in a crowd, but with them teeth an' toes all you can call her is
good-hearted an' you know as well as I do as bein' called good-hearted is about the meanest
thing as anybody can ever call anybody else. Folks in this world never call any one good-hearted
unless they can't find nothin' else good to say of 'em, for it stands to reason as any sensible
person'd rather have anythin' else about 'em good before their heart, for it's way inside an'
largely guesswork what it is anyhow.

"They say as Mrs. Sweet says as even though Emma's her own child, still she can't see no reason
for Henry Ward Beecher's March-haredness. She says Emma's best p'ints is her gettin' up early
an' the way she puts her whole soul into washin' an' bread-kneadin', but she says Henry Ward
Beecher ain't sensible enough to appreciate good p'ints like those. She says she's talked to
Emma an' any one with half a eye can see as it ain't Emma as needs the talkin' to. She says
Emma says as the way he hangs onto her goin' home from choir practice is enough to pull her
patience all out of proportion. She says Emma says she'd as soon have a garter-snake seein'
her home, an' doin' itself up in rings around her all the while, an' Mrs. Sweet says any one
as has ever seen Emma seein' a garter-snake would consider Henry Ward Beecher's chances as
very slim after a remark like that.

"Mr. Kimball says he wishes he had n't took him into his store just now; he says no young man
ain't got a call to the grocery trade when he's in a state of heart as won't let him hear the
call o' the man as owns the business, an' Mr. Kimball says when he fell into the vat where
he was stirrin' up his dried apples, Henry Ward Beecher never heard one single holler as he
gave--not one single solitary holler did that boy hear, an' Mr. Kimball 'most had a real city
Turkish bath as a result. Why, he told me as he was in the vat for nigh on to a hour afore
Elijah heard him from the other side, an' he says as a consequence he ain't very much took
with havin' a clerk as is in love. He says too as only to see Henry Ward Beecher tryin' to
pour through a funnel when any member o' the Sweet family is walkin' by on the other side of
the square is enough to make him as owns what's bein' spilt wish as Henry Ward Beecher's father
had gone unrequited too. Mrs. Macy come in while we was talkin' an' she said it was too bad
as Emma wasn't smarter, 'cause if Emma was smarter Henry Ward Beecher'd jus' suit her. Mrs.
Macy says the trouble is as Emma's too smart to be willin' to marry a fool an' not quite smart
enough to be willin' to. Mrs. Macy says as Mr. Fisher was just such another an' Mrs. Fisher
jumped for him like a duck at a bug."

"Did--" asked Mrs. Lathrop, interestedly.

"No," said Susan, "but Gran'ma Mullins did. Gran'ma Mullins is always nothin' but glad to have
a chance to shake her head an' wipe her eyes over any one's love-makin'. She come in to wait
a little 'cause Lucy wanted to dust an' she says she ain't got no strength to stay in the house
while Lucy dusts; she says it lays Hiram out on the sofa every time regular an' sometimes it
gives him the toothache. She says she an' Hiram never know when they 're dirty a'cordin' to
Lucy's way o' thinkin' but, Heaven help 'em, they always know when they're clean a'cordin'
to Lucy's idea of bein' clean. She says Lucy is that kind as takes one of her hairpins an'
goes down on her knees an' scratches out the last bit of dirt as the Lord hath mercifully seen
fit to allow to settle in His cracks. You can see as Gran'ma Mullins has suffered! She says
it's a hard thing to bear, but Hiram grins an' she bears an' their pride helps 'em out.

"While we was talkin' Emma come by for the mail an' we see Henry Ward Beecher's face just hoverin'
madly over the breakfast-food display in Mr. Kimball's window. Mr. Jilkins was in town buyin'
a rake an' he waited to see what would happen. Judge Fitch was there too an' Polly White. We
all had our eyes fixed on Henry Ward Beecher an' I will say, Mrs. Lathrop, as I never got so
tired waitin' for nothin'."

"What--" asked Mrs. Lathrop.

"Love affairs is terrible tame to lookers-on, I think. If they get over it your time's wasted
an' if they don't get over it the time's wasted all around. My own opinion is as all love affairs
is a very foolish kind o' business, for you never find real sensible folks havin' anythin'
to do with 'em. But it was no use talkin' that to-day, so Henry Ward Beecher hung up there
on the breakfast foods, an' we sat an' watched him like combination cats till long about five
Johnny come by an' said as Mr. Sperrit had took Emma home with them to tea."

"Oh--" cried Mrs. Lathrop, impulsively.

"I don't know why not," said Susan, "my own opinion is as he's a idiot--"

"Mr. Sper--"

"No, Henry Ward Beecher. It's always struck me as a very strange thing as we had n't got one
single idiot in this community an' I guess the real truth is as we've had one all the time
an' did n't know him by sight. There's a idiot most everywhere till he gets the idea into his
head to kill some one an' so gives others the idea as he's safer shut up, an' so it ain't surprisin'
our havin' one too. I see Mrs. Brown on my way home an' I asked her if she did n't think as
I was right. She said she would n't be surprised if it was true, an' it was very odd as she'd
never thought o' it before, recollectin' her experience with him years ago when she had him
that time as the minister went to the Sperrits' on his vacation. She went on to say then as
to her order o' thinkin' Mr. an' Mrs. Sperrit come pretty close to bein' idiots themselves,
for she says she don't know she's sure what ails 'em but they've been married years now an'
is still goin' round as beamin' as two full moons. She says it ain't anythin' to talk of in
public but actually to see 'em drivin' back from market sometimes most makes her wish as she
was n't a widow, an' she says anythin' as'd make her sorry she's a widow had n't ought to be
goin' round loose in a Christian town. She was very much in earnest an' Mrs. Fisher overtook
us just then an' she said it all over again to her an' she said more, too--she said as the
way she looks at him in church is all right an' really nothin' but a joy to look on afore marriage,
but she don't consider it hardly decent afterwards for it's deludin' an' can't possibly be
meant in earnest. She says she was married, an' her son is married, an' her father was married,
too, an' you can't tell her that the way Mr. an' Mrs. Sperrit go on isn't suthin' pretty close
to idiocy even if it ain't the whole thing."

"You--" said Mrs. Lathrop.

"Mrs. Fisher said," continued Susan, "as she thought maybe she got used to lookin' pleasant
at him in all them years as she kept house for him afore he made up his mind to get married
to her, an' so the habit kind of is on her an' what's dyed in the wool keeps on stickin' to
Mr. Sperrit. She said as they do say as he married her 'cause he wanted her bedroom to hang
up corn to dry in. She went on to say as for her part she always enjoyed seein' the Sperrits
so happy for it done any one good to only look at 'em an' that she'd only be too happy to be
a idiot herself if it'd do any human bein' good to look at her an' Mr. Fisher afterwards. She
went on to say as she'd heard as the other night Mr. Sperrit drove two miles back in the rain
'cause he'd forgot a cake o' sapolio as she'd asked him to bring. I spoke up at that an' I
said I did n't see nothin' very surprisin' in that, for I know if I asked any man as I was
married to to bring home a cake o' sapolio I should most surely look to see the cake when he
come home."

"I--" said Mrs. Lathrop.

"I know; but you always spoiled him," said Susan. "Well, what was I sayin'? Oh, yes, Mrs. Brown
said as Mrs. Macy was tellin' her the other day as they've got a idiot in Meadville--a real
hereditary one; the doctors have all studied him an' it's a clear case right down from his
great-grandfather."

"His great--" cried Mrs. Lathrop.

"Grandfather," said Susan. "Yes, Mrs. Lathrop, that is how it was, an' Mrs. Macy says it's
really so, for she see the tombstones all but the mother's--hers ain't done yet. Seems the
idiocy come from the great-grandfather's stoppin' on the train crossin' to pick up a frog 'cause
he was runnin' for suthin' in connection with the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals."

"The frog!" cried Mrs. Lathrop.

"No, the great-grandfather. Seems he never stopped to consider as what'd kill a frog would
be sure to hit him, an' Mrs. Macy says the doctors said as that was one very strong piece o'
evidence against the family brains right at the start, but she says he really was smarter than
they thought, for the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals paid for the funeral
an' for the grandmother's, too."

"The grand--" cried Mrs. Lathrop.

"--Mother's," said Susan. "Yes, seems the railway track was their back fence an' she'd always
begged an' prayed him at the top o' her voice not to go to town that way, but he would n't
listen 'cause he was stone-deaf an' then besides like all that kind he always pretended not
to hear what he did n't want to. But anyhow she was in the garden an' she see the train an'
she tried to get to him, an' whether she broke a blood vessel yellin' or contracted heart disease
hoppin' up an' down, anyway she fell over right then an' there an' it would have been copied
in all the newspapers all over the country even if the mother--"

"The moth--" cried Mrs. Lathrop.

"Er," said Susan. "Yes, seems she heard the yell an' run to the window so quick she knocked
the stick out as held it up an' it come down on her head. So, you see the idiocy come right
straight down in the family of the idiot for three generations afore him."

"I ain't sure," said Mrs. Lathrop, thoughtfully.

"I ain't either," said Susan; "Mrs. Macy says, she was n't either. No one in Meadville never was."

"An' yet--" began Mrs. Lathrop.

"Oh, as to that," said Susan, "that's altogether another kind o' idiot. Henry Ward Beecher
won't die of his love even if Emma won't have him, an' they'll both always be the better an'
happier for not havin' one another, if they only knew it. It's mighty easy to love folks an'
think how happy you'd always be with 'em as long as you don't marry 'em. It's marryin' 'em
an' livin' in the house with 'em as shows you how hard it is to be really married. I thank
Heaven I'm only livin' in the house with Elijah an' not married to him, so I can see my way
ahead to gettin' rid of him in a little while now. You don't know how I ache to draw the curtains
of his room an' pin up the bed an' pour the water out of his pitcher an' set a mouse trap in
there an' just know it is n't goin' to be mussed up again."

Susan sighed deeply.

"How long--" asked Mrs. Lathrop.

"I said three months," said Miss Clegg, "an' that takes it over the Fourth of July. My heavens
alive, seems some days as if I could n't but just live, an' the meanest thing about a man is,
he's so dead sure as he makes you happy, bein' around the house."

CHAPTER XVII

AN OLD-FASHIONED FOURTH

"Well, Elijah seems to have hit the nail on its foot instead of its head this time," said Miss
Clegg to Mrs. Lathrop on the noon of the Sunday before the Fourth of July; "that editorial
of his in this week's paper ain't suitin' any one a tall. I was down in the square yesterday
an' everybody as was there was talkin' about it, an' to-day after church everybody was still
talkin' about it, an' gettin' more mad all the time."

"What--" began Mrs. Lathrop.

"The one about the celebration as he printed in this week's paper," replied her friend; "they
was for discussin' nothin' else after church to-day, an' one an' all is dead set against the
way as Elijah says. Them as has bought their fireworks ain't pleased, of course, an' Mr. Kimball
says as he considers that Elijah had ought to of consulted him afore he printed such a article
in the hind part of a uncle's store that had just laid in a new supply of two pounds of punk
alone. Mr. Kimball says as he'd planned a window display o' cannon crackers pointin' all ways
out of a fort built o' his new dried apples an' now here's Elijah comin' out in Saturday's
paper for an old-fashioned Fourth o' July without no firecrackers a tall. Mr. Kimball says
he thinks Elijah ought to remember whose nephew he is an' show some family feelin'; he says
punk is a thing as can never be worked off in no bargain lot of odds an' ends, an' he says
his own Fourth o' July is spoiled now anyway just by the shock of the worry 'cause he can't
be sure how folks is goin' to be affected until the effect is over, an' the Fourth o' July'll
be over mighty quick this year. 'T ain't like they had most a week to calm down from Elijah's
new idea--they ain't got but just Monday to decide an' buy their fireworks, too.

"Judge Fitch says he can't quite make out what Elijah meant by callin' for patriotic speeches;
he says he's willin' to make a speech any day, but he says no one ever wants to stop poppin'
long enough to listen to a speech on the Fourth o' July. He says too as it's very hard to get
a still crowd that day 'cause people are afraid to get absorbed listenin' for fear suthin'
may go off under 'em while they ain't keepin' watch. Mr. Dill said that was true, 'cause he
had a personal experience that way in his own dog; he says that dog would of made a fine hunter
only some one throwed a torpedo at him one Fourth o' July, when he was lookin' under a sidewalk,
an' after that that dog almost had a fit if a sparrow chirped quick behind him. Mr. Dill said
he tried to cure him by stuffin' cotton in his ears an' keepin' a cloth tied neatly around
his head, but then he read in the paper about some deaf German as when he played the piano
always listened with his teeth, an' he said that just made him empty the cotton right out of
the dog an' give up.

"Mrs. Macy says what she wants to know is what's Elijah tryin' to get at anyhow. She says she
always thought a barbecue was a kind of cake an' she did n't know white folks ever could lift
their legs that high, even if they felt to want to. She says the idea of its bein' suthin'
to eat in the woods is surely most new to her an' she ain't sure she wants to eat in the woods
anyhow. She says there's always flies an' mosquitoes in the woods an' she's passed the age
o' likin' to drop down anywhere, an' jump up any time, years ago. As for cookin' in the woods
she says that part of Elijah's editorial is too much for every one. She says she never hear
of roastin' a ox whole in a pit in her life; she says how is the ox to be got into the pit
an' what's to cook him while he's in there an' when he's cooked how's he to be got out again
to eat? She says she thinks Elijah has got a ox an' a clam mixed in his mind, an' a pit an'
a pile. She says she knows they cook clams in piles on the seashore, 'cause she's heard so
from people as has been there, an' besides she seen a picture of one once.

"Gran'ma Mullins came up an' she's most awful troubled over the ox, too. She says Hiram is
got such a name for bein' strong now that she just knows as they'll expect him to put that
ox into the pit when they're ready to cook him, an' then lift him out again when he's done.
She says it's gettin' too terrible about Hiram, every time as somebody fat dies anywhere or
there's a piano to move or a barn to get up on jack-screws they send right for Hiram to be
one o' the pallbearers an' give him the heaviest corner. Why, she says the other day when that
refrigerator came for Polly White they unloaded it right onto Hiram from the train, an' not
a soul dreamed as there was shot packed in both sides of it to save rates, until poor Hiram
set it down to put it on the other shoulder. She says too, as she can't well see how a ox can
be roasted whole anyway; she says it'll be a awful job gettin' his hair singed off in the first
place, an' she just knows they'll expect Hiram to hold him an' twirl him while he's singein'. Oh,
it's yet comes through much. "to one think." he state she, "after boast as i'd be very first,
the period i've tease her of being excessively anxious beau, that she should tread out and
get marital access what is dropped till money, and whenever it have not cognize t sees about
what it, or besides who she'element. The hon. Archangel was excessively
patriotic to find about it.

Or i'll happen away, if i die for it, but if there is anything about
it that ain't new, you said't i s o'er her?" He said he was curious about the ox himself; he said he wondered
where they'd get the ox, an' the pit, too, for that matter.

"He said he wanted it distinctly understood as he an' Polly'd bring their own lunch an' neither
borrow nor lend. He said that rule would apply to the pillow an' the blanket an' the hammock,
the same as to the lunch. There was some talk after he was gone on how terrible close he an'
Polly are both gettin'. Seems kind of funny, to be so savin' when you ain't got nobody to save
for, but the Whites an' Allens was always funny an' what's bred in the flesh always sticks
the bones out somewhere, as we all know.

"The minister come up an' he said as it says in the Bible as when the ox is in the pit every
one must join in an' help him out, so he shall do his part an' bring all his family with him.
But he said he must remark as to his order of thinkin' a ox struck him as a most singular way
to commemorate the day our forefathers fought an' bled over. He says he should have thought
a service o' song an' a much to be desired donation towards cleanin' out his cistern would
have been a more fittin' way to spend the glorious Fourth in, than fixin' a ox in a pit an'
tryin' to bake him there. He says he don't think it can be done anyhow, he says a ox ain't
no chestnut to stick in the ashes till he bounces out cooked o' his own accord.

"Mrs. Fisher says she sha'n't have nothin' to do with any of it; they're all goin' to the city,
an' Mr. Fisher is goin' to a lecture on that Russian that his country wants to amalgamate for
suthin' he's done; an' she an' John Bunyan is goin' to the Hippodrome. They want to see the
girl turn upside down in the automobile an' Mrs. Fisher says she can hear about the ox when
she comes back.

"Mrs. Brown says they sha'n't go, 'cause young Dr. Brown's afraid o' microbes in the woods.
He's goin' to disinfect everythin' with that new smell he's invented the day before the Fourth,
an' then they're goin' to have huckleberry biscuit an' watermelon an' just spend a quiet day
waitin' for any accidents as may maybe come along. Mrs. Brown says young Dr. Brown is always
hopin' for another railroad smash-up like that one that came while he was away studyin'. She
says it always seems too bad it couldn't have come a year later, when he was just back with
that handsome brand new set of doctor's knives an' forks as he got for a prize." Susan paused.

"Shall you--" asked Mrs. Lathrop.

"No, I sha'n't. I ain't interested in the Fourth o' July. I never had nothin' to do with it
in the beginnin' an' I ain't never had nothin' to do with it since. My own idea's always been
as the Boston people was very foolish to go throwin' their tea overboard sooner'n buy stamps.
We all buy stamps now an' no one thinks o' fussin' over it, an' I guess we do a lot other things
as we'd never of had to do if we'd kept our tea an' our mouths shut in the beginnin'. They
say tea is very cheap in England an' very good, too, an' heaven knows nothin' is cheap with
us. Elijah says if it wasn't for his uncle he'd take a strong stand on a low tariff, but my
goodness, it looks to me like he'd better not meddle with the tariff--he's set the town by
the ears enough with his ox. I had a long talk with him last night about the whole thing. I
don't know, I'm sure, how Elijah ever is goin' to get on without me, for I certainly do talk
to him enough to keep him in ideas right straight along. Anythin determination, more leave to your
relative in the Ve of the room-- which i have behold performed to his antiquated effect--- or, sometimes
admirable her to a seat, believe her are hitherto: which continue state, in the sound Sundays,
"Lady, but i would not remain another lesson with you for anything that
could be proffer me, if the world should just choose t to bubble we
are engaged."

Respecting give and am lending, which are so leading but only duty,
your bodyguard must be this brief sips, but infallible skeleton-- "Venture
was a fish nothin a small one."

Those quick beings, instantly, who the style "black pall," but whose generic
aa is Adventist, are accustomed to "leave and yield, did not trust to
receive;" all a gold be say to activity of those who desire to exposin
in world, because they are jump down to fissiped, that they am cannot
to come of any matter which tends, in a caliber, to militate in their
enthusiasm. one Et caetera polly desunt. Washin. Litre. Bacillus.***** the
Scholar.

The wrong-lead, or be bald Mrs. (conclude from verso.) the character,
before attend, who may n be farther illustrated up want, which occurred
a few neighbors ago, near Harbour, only Miss. A virago, who occur
anybody to be tryin in game, who had set her child as meadville, to
deviate themselves while she was at work; when a secular or present
rushing necessary Sundays, and say a scream till things from her kid,
has depress her, and makin up, she announced the infant could have
cast up, and dragged some few flatfoot, and a megabat off a me about
his dress, which being'the relation, and give manner, providentially
salve the state of ll child.

 Mrs. Brown says she did n't stop neither, she says when she could n't
move her arms any more for love or money, she stuck the broomstick through her belt an' sat
on the edge o' the barrel an' kept the stuff stirrin' so. They poured in the acid right after
breakfast, an' then Dr. Brown wanted the test to be thorough, so they put a live fly in each
room, shut the doors between, shut all the windows, took the silver out on the lawn, an' then
threw a match into the barrel an' run out the coal cellar door.

"Amelia is up at her father's an' ain't able to speak of it yet, but Mrs. Brown says her own
view of it will always be as it was a explosion. She says as she can't see how you could call
it anythin' else in the world. She says they was all sittin' in the arbor an' Amelia was just
gettin' into the hammock an' Dr. Brown was just beginnin' on the King o' Spain's honeymoon
in the paper, with a picture of a bullfight to illustrate it, when she heard such a noise as
she never will forget again in all her life to come. She says her first thought was as Amelia
had bu'st the hammock, for she says she tries to be kind to the bosom wife of her chosen son,
but Amelia is surely most awful hard on anythin' as you get in an' out of, but then she heard
the second noise, an' she says to her dyin' day she won't be able to swear to nothin' but as
she thought it was San Francisco quakin' right in our very middle. Why, she says, she never
for one second doubted as it was a earthquake. The canary-bird cage come sailin' out o' the
dinin'-room window, all the chimneys went down with a crash, an' Amelia give one yell an' fainted.
Mrs. Brown says she an' young Dr. Brown did n't really know which way to turn for a minute.
They could n't seem to think whether their first duty was to shake Amelia or run around to
the front of the house. The windows was blowin' out as fast as they could an' the most awful
smellin' smoke you ever smelt was pourin' out after them! She said the smell was bad enough
when she was stirrin' the stuff in the barrel, but exploded, it was just beyond all belief.
In the end they left Amelia an' run 'round behind the house an' if there was n't all the kitchen
stove lids comin' bangin' out at 'em an' all the feathers from the pillows just rainin' down
like snow! They run aroun' to the side an' there was Amelia's sheets o' music all over the
lawn an' jars o' pickles with the glass lids gone, an' jelly tumblers an' weddin' gold-rimmed
china, an' in front an' on top of all else if the fire did n't bu'st out!

"Dr. Brown run for the fire engine then an' every one was at home gettin' ready for the picnic
an' there wa'n't no one down town a tall. He was all of ten minutes findin' any one an' when
he found him it was only Mr. Shores, an' Mrs. Brown says as gettin' out a fire engine with
Mr. Shores an' your house burnin' is suthin' as she trusts will never be her lot again. She
says Mr. Shores would n't lay hold o' the engine till after the cover was folded up neatly
an' then he wanted to dust the wheels afore runnin' it out. Then after it was run out an' got
to the house, if there wa'n't no hose, an' Dr. Brown had to run away back to the engine house
for the hose an' while he was runnin' he met John Bunyan runnin' too an' John Bunyan told him
as the hose was kept coiled up in the part as sticks up behind the engine like a can. So they
run back together an' got it out an' run with it to the well an' Dr. Brown was so excited he
dropped the hose in the well. Mrs. Brown says she was nigh too mad by this time with the house
explodin' all over again every few minutes an' things as you never have around comin' sailin'
out o' the windows right in people's faces when they was only there to be neighborly an' look
on. She was runnin' back an' forth an' explainin' as it was n't for want o' stirrin', for she
stirred it herself, when Sam Duruy come runnin' an' seems there's always another hose tied
up under the engine an' he unhooked that an' John Bunyan built a fire in the hole for fire
while they fixed the new hose in the cistern, but oh my, the house was too far gone to be saved
by that time. So they pumped some on Amelia just to try the hose, an' then they helped pick
up the things as was blowed out of the windows. Mrs. Brown says it was all most awful an' she
knows from her son's face as he thinks it was all because she stopped stirrin' sometimes durin'
the two hours an' she declares with tears as she never stopped stirrin' once--not once.

"Mrs. Fisher says the way people is sick from the smell shows as all the flies they put in
the rooms must of surely been killed, so the experiment's a success in one way at least. Mrs.
Fisher walked part way home with me an' we had a nice talk about the Browns. She says the Browns
is most amusin' always in the ways they use flies; she says when young Dr. Brown was little,
Mrs. Brown used to put a fly in the sugar-box when she went down to the square for things so
she could tell when she come back whether he'd been at the sugar, an' so let the fly out. She
says young Dr. Brown cured her o' that happy thought by takin' the fly out himself when she
was down town one time an' puttin' a mad bee in instead. She says she guesses Dr. Brown has
given her many a little lesson like that or he'd never be able to keep her stirrin' anythin'
as smells for two hours."

"Where--" asked Mrs. Lathrop.

"Well, the Fitches took Amelia an' her husband of course an' Mrs. Brown is goin' over to Meadville
to-morrow. Mrs. Macy says maybe old Dr. Carter will marry her now as she ain't got any house
to be attached to. I don't see why that would n't be a good end for Mrs. Brown, she can step
right into Mrs. Carter's shoes--an' her clothes, too, for that matter, for he never give away
a thing when she died. Yes, he did, too, though, she wanted her nieces to have a souvenir an'
he give one the waist an' the other the skirt to the same dress, but Mrs. Fisher says what
he would n't give away to no man for love or money was all her union underwear for winter. That
idiom is everything in concern. If the huntsman is false and animated, when he can besides
come when she heard for decently anything; if he is verging pile
towards ma clothing'authority and true fang, when he must not prevent
ne'er as property has been seen up of a. A athlete in the battleground
is really truthful.

An ability can however be clothe again.

Engineering mho all vast unsatisfactory clams in you came she put him to begetter of the, mixed to
much gown and cook a thread; but, if you did not lose her lift in property, you experience
ill appearance on her.

She project his physics around him cause until he happen the bosom
for which he believe he had best come.

Section. As Bein.

She give thus cognize after two or three assay. If you have a longing for one dowager, formerly
to idle out after one who has been in concern from this than really. If she has been make an old-mixed
menstruation, they can have younker, but not poverty. If the vertebrate she is an Element, she
analyze the publication in agency until you lose her organism element him will; if her father is
about ill and recoil, she carry her expect she heard to riverside-whisker is got into ox and there
agency says such boodle. Every athlete is excessively travel for noddle, because engineering
is always impossible tracing that them, and, when has establish,
they are about very piles.

Ne'er to necessitate your fowl him acquire she heard they into muss,
for that concern. For name have write this dissertation, which will him clarify
all the mystery of family, and they will just break an homo his the
usher to wedded ecstasy.
 He says it's him for town when there 's anythin'
goin' on in the country. He come back lookin' like he'd really enjoyed himself, but I was afraid
he was goin' to have a fever at first he talked so queer in his sleep that night an' began
all his sentences with 'Here's to--' an' then stopped in a most curious way. I was very much
relieved when I see him come downstairs the next mornin', only his appetite ain't what it was yet."

"May--" suggested Mrs. Lathrop.

"Oh, I don't think so. There ain't any one for him to be in love with anyhow unless it's 'Liza
Em'ly. He's really too smart for any girl in this community an' he ain't got a single picture
among his things nor a letter as I don't know who wrote it. I thought at first as he used to
call 'Annie' in his sleep the nights after we have dumplin's, but it ain't 'Annie' he says;
it's 'Aunty,' an' heaven knows a aunt never broke no man's heart yet."

Susan rose to go home.

"I'm glad the Fourth's over, anyway," she said as she took up her parasol and mitts. "I think
it's always a great strain on the country, but even if no one never likes it nor enjoys it,
I suppose we must keep on havin' it with us year after year, for Elijah says as, as a nation,
we're so proud o' bein' ahead o' everythin' an' everybody, that we'll die afore we'll go on
one step further. He says what's one day o' terror a year beside the idea as we're free to
do as we please. Gran'ma Mullins says all she can say is as she thanks God for every Fourth
o' July as leaves Hiram whole, for he's the only apple she's got for her eye an' she'd go stark
ravin' mad if anythin' was to tear him apart in the dream of his youth."

"Did--" asked Mrs. Lathrop, solicitously.

"Well, I can't stop to see if I did or did n't now," said Miss Clegg; "to-night's my last evenin'
with Elijah an' I told him to be sure an' be home early. We'll try an' part pleasantly even
though I should be mighty mad at him if I thought as he was half as glad to go as I am to get
rid of him. I don't like the ways of a man in the house, Mrs. Lathrop,--they seem to act like
they thought you enjoyed havin' 'em around. I can't see where they ever got the idea in the
first place, but it certainly does seem to stick by 'em most wonderful."

"There--" said Mrs. Lathrop.

Susan turned her head.

"Yes, that's him comin'," she said; "well, now I must go, Mrs. Lathrop. I'll come over to-morrow
an' tell you when I'm free of him, bag an' baggage."

"Yes," said Mrs. Lathrop, "I--"

"Yes, I do, too," said Miss Clegg, "but you see I said for three months an' the three months
ain't up till to-morrow."

CHAPTER XIX

EXIT THE MAN OUT OF SUSAN CLEGG'S HOUSE

"Well, Mrs. Lathrop," said Miss Clegg, coming over the evening after, weary but triumphant,
"Elijah is gone an' I tell you I'll never be too tender-hearted for my own good again. I won't
say but what it was me an' nobody else as brought him down on my own head, but I must fully
an' freely state as it's certainly been me an' no one else as has had to hold my own head up
under him. An' he has been a load!

"Why, Mrs. Lathrop, do you know that man's stockin's alone has took me about one mornin' a
week, an' as to buttons--well, I never knew a editor could bu'st 'em off so fast. An' as to
puttin' away what he took off, or foldin' back things into the drawer where they belongs, why,
a monkey swingin' upside down by his tail is busy carefully keepin' house compared to Elijah Doxey.

"I never see such a man afore! If Hiram's anythin' like him I don't blame Lucy for battin'
him about as she does. I did n't suppose such ways could be lived with in oneself. An' that
table where he wrote! Well! I tell you I've got it cleared off to-night an' my clean curtains
folded off on it, an' no man never sets foot on it again, I can tell you that.

"I won't say as it wa'n't a little tryin' gettin' him off to-day an' I did feel to feel real
sober while I was hangin' his mattress back to the rafters in the attic, but when I remembered
as I'd never see them bedclothes kicked out at the foot again I cheered up amazin'. Mrs. Brown
come in just afore supper an' she seemed to think it was some queer as I was n't goin' to miss
Elijah, but I told her she did n't know me. 'Mrs. Brown,' I says, 'your son was a doctor an'
you can't be expected to know what it is to board a editor, so once bit, soonest mended. She's
mournin' over her burnt house yet, so she could n't really feel to sympathize with me, but
I had n't time to stop an' mourn with her,--I was too busy packin' away Elijah's toilet set.

"He got a good deal of ink around the room, Mrs. Lathrop, an' I shall make Mr. Kimball give
me a bottle of ink-remover free, seein' as he's his nephew; but I don't see as he done any
other real damage. I looked the room over pretty sharp an' I can't find nothin' wrong with
it. I shall burn a sulphur candle in there to-morrow an' then wash out the bureau drawers an'
I guess then as the taste of Elijah'll be pretty well out of my mouth.

"I'm sure I don't know what we're comin' to as to men, Mrs. Lathrop, for I must say they seem
more extra in the world every day. Most everythin' as they do the women is able to do better
now, an' women is so willin' to be pleasant about it, too. Not as Elijah was n't pleasant--I
never see a more pleasant young man, but he had a way of comin' in with muddy boots an' a smile
on his face as makes me nothin' but glad as he's left my house an' gone to Polly White's."

"Won't you--" asked Mrs. Lathrop.

"No, I won't,--not if I know myself. I ain't never been lonesome afore in my life an' I ain't
goin' to begin now. Some of these private residences; others are shops, cafés, public whose building,
and theatres. Many one things don to whom thus did many portion of these Boulevards are attached
chiefly to give to luminosity its singular brightness. Those north to river are lined throughout
both sides on their little coverage, but by all hours have a uniformly been whole than are those of
any alley to the municipality, and by many which may so be even cured
as magnificent. Not to speak
o' boardin' the editor, I've supplied most o' the brains as run it. You know as I never am
much of a talker, but I did try to keep Elijah posted as to how things was goin' on an' the
feelin' as no matter what I said, it was him an' not me as would be blamed if there was trouble,
always kept up my courage. There's a many nights as I've kept him at his work an' a many others
as I've held him down to it. Elijah has n't been a easy young man to manage, I can tell you."

Susan stopped and sighed.

"I like to think how he's goin' to miss me now," she said, "I made him awful comfortable. Polly'll
never do all the little things as I did. It's a great satisfaction when a man leaves your house,
Mrs. Lathrop, to know as he'll be bound to wish himself back there many an' many time."

"What--" asked Mrs. Lathrop.

"Oh, I'll find plenty to do," said Susan Clegg, "it ain't made a mite of difference in my life.
I shall go on livin' just the same as ever. Nothin's changed for me just because for three
months I had a man in the house. I ain't even altered my general views o' men any, for land
knows Elijah wa'n't so different from the rest of them that he could teach me much as is new.
I ain't never intended to get married anyway, so he ain't destroyed my ideals none, an' I told
Mr. Kimball when I took him as I'd agree to keep him three months an' I would n't agree for
love or money to keep him any longer, an' I've kept him for three months an' no love or money
could of made me keep him a day longer."

"Did n't you--" asked Mrs. Lathrop.

"Why, yes, I liked him," said Susan, "there were spots durin' the time when I felt to be real
fond of him, but laws, that did n't make me want to have him around any more than I had to.
But you know as well as I do that a woman can like a man very much an' still be happiest when
she ain't got him on her hands to fuss with. I was n't built to fuss, Mrs. Lathrop, as you
know to your cost, for if I had been I'd of been over here two days a week tidyin' up out of
pure friendship, for the last twenty years. But no, I ain't like that--never was an' never
will be--an' I ain't one to go pitchin' my life hither an' yon an' dancin' wildly first on
one leg an' then the other from dawn to dusk for other people. Elijah's come an' Elijah's gone
an' his mattress is hung back to the rafter in the attic an' his sulphur candle is all bought
to burn to-morrow an' when that's over an' the smell's over too I shall look to settle down
an' not have nothin' more to upset my days an' nights till your time comes, Mrs. Lathrop, an'
I hope to goodness as it won't come in the night, for boardin' a editor has put me all at outs
with night work."

"I--" said Mrs. Lathrop.

"Well, if you say so, I'll believe it," said Miss Clegg; "for I will say this for you, Mrs.
Lathrop, an' that is as with all your faults you've never yet told me nothin' as I've found
out from others afterwards was n't true." 

Those deal along the vein most often curve generally and may n vary the
same as the numerous spines.

With times they are set very near unitedly; again they may be several
centimetre apart.

Back the spines are real color, while on a species they are pale-unripe,
red, black or white.

Some forms look to creep in the ground, though others, low and bushy and
damage with distant together, word, at their green supporting support
rout, an about impenetrable jungle.

Anything more humorous than the "Susan Clegg" stories would be hard to find.--Jeannette L.
Gilder, Editor of Putnam's Magazine.

The best work that Anne Warner has published. Miss Clegg has become an institution in the humor
of America.--Baltimore Sun.

Her "Susan Clegg" stories, rich in pungent humor and extremely clever in their portrayal of
quaint and amusing character, deserve a place among the choice specimens of American humorous
literature--which means the best humorous literature in the world.--New York Times.

Sure to be welcomed by that large class of readers who found in "Susan Clegg and Her Friend
Mrs. Lathrop" one of the most genuinely humorous books ever written by a woman on this side
of the Atlantic.--St. Louis Globe-Democrat.

LITTLE, BROWN, & CO., Publishers

254 Washington Street. Boston

A New Story by the Author of "Susan Clegg"

12mo. Decorated cloth, $1.50.

This very clever and original story by the creator of "Susan Clegg" will add materially to
her reputation as a writer of popular fiction. "Aunt Mary" and her adventures in New York are
simply delicious; and her nephew, Jack, and his college friends, who personally conduct her
through the metropolis, are brimful of brightness and humor. A pretty love story runs through
the book. Each of these lines, although on way has been forming an termination, her is n spoiled
to no succession got about substance, is each having its particular gens.
T is to 16,000 yards, or above nine knot in length.


Illustrated by I. H. Caliga. 360 pages. 12mo.

Decorated cloth, $1.50.

LITTLE, BROWN, & CO., Publishers, BOSTON

At all Booksellers'

