Bergson's account of perception differs from the account ordinarily given in that perception
is not described as a relation which is supposed to hold between a subject and an object: for
Bergson there is no "I," distinct from what is perceived, standing to it in a relation of perception.
For an object, to be perceived consists, not in being related to a perceiver, but in being
combined in a new way with other objects. If an object is combined by synthesis with other
objects then it is perceived and so becomes a fact. But there is no mind over and above the
objects which perceives them by being related to them, or even by performing an act of synthesis
upon them. To speak of "our" perceiving objects is a mere fiction: when objects are combined
by synthesis they become perceptions, facts, and this is the same as saying that they are minds.
For Bergson a mind is nothing but a synthesis of objects. This explains what he means by saying
that in direct knowledge the perceiver is the object perceived.

Actually he thinks such notions as the perceiver and the object and the relation which unites
them, or again matter and the act of synthesis which turns matter into fact, are nothing but
abstractions: the only thing there really is is simply the fact itself. These abstractions,
however, do somehow apply to the actual facts, and this brings us back to our problem as to
how it is that the actual fact, which is in creative duration, lends itself to classification:
how it is that general laws in terms of abstractions which can be repeated over and over again,
can apply to the actual fact which does not contain repetitions?

Facts lend themselves to explanation when they are perceived as familiar. In this perceived
familiarity, which is the basis of all abstraction, and so of all description and explanation,
past as well as present is involved, the present owing its familiarity to our memory of past
facts. The obvious explanation of perceived familiarity, would be, of course, to say that it
results from our perceiving similar qualities shared by past and present facts, or relations
of similarity holding between them. But Bergson must find some other explanation than this
since he denies that there can be repetition in actual facts directly known.

Whenever there is actual fact there is memory, and memory creates duration which excludes repetition.
Perceived familiarity depends upon memory but memory, according to Bergson, does not work by
preserving a series of repetitions for future reference. If we say that memory connects "the
past" with "the present" we must add that it destroys their logical distinctness. But of course
this is putting it very badly: there is really no "logical distinctness" in the actual fact
for memory to "destroy": our language suggests that first there was matter, forming a logical
series of distinct qualities recurring over and over, and then memory occurred and telescoped
the series, squeezing "earlier" and "later" moments into one another to make a creative duration.
Such a view is suggested by our strong bias towards regarding abstractions as having independent
existence apart from the real fact from which they have been abstracted: if we can overcome
this bias the description will do well enough.

According to Bergson, as we have just seen, every actual fact must contain some memory otherwise
it would not be a fact but simply matter, since it is an act of memory that turns matter into
perceived fact. Our ordinary more or less familiar facts, however, contain much more than this
bare minimum. The facts of everyday life are perceived as familiar and classified from a vast
number of points of view. When you look at a cherry you recognise its colour, shape, etc.,
you know it is edible, what it would taste like, whether it is ripe, and much more besides,
all at a glance. All this knowledge depends on memory, memory gives meaning to what we might
call bare sensation (which is the same thing as Bergson's present matter) as opposed to the
full familiar fact actually experienced. Now the meaning is ordinarily contained in the actual
fact along with the bare sensation not as a multiplicity of memories distinct from the bare
sensation, but, as we put it, at a glance. This peculiar flavour of a familiar fact can be
analysed out as consisting of memories of this or that past experience, if we choose to treat
it in that way, just as a fact can be analysed into qualities. According to Bergson this analysis
of the meaning of a familiar fact into memories would have the same drawbacks as the analysis
of a present fact into qualities: it would leave out much of the meaning and distort the rest.
Bergson holds that wherever there is duration the past must be preserved since it is just the
preservation of the past, the creation of fact by a synthesis of what, out of synthesis, would
be past and present, which constitutes duration. The essential point about mental life is just
the performing of this act of synthesis which makes duration: wherever there is mental life
there is duration and so wherever there is mental life the past is preserved. "Above everything,"
Bergson says, "consciousness signifies memory. At this moment as I discuss with you I pronounce
the word "discussion." It is clear that my consciousness grasps this word altogether; if not
it would not see it as a unique word and would not make sense of it. And yet when I pronounce
the last syllable of the word the two first ones have already been pronounced; relatively to
this one, which must then be called present, they are past. But this last syllable "sion" was
not pronounced instantaneously; the time, however short, during which I was saying it, can
be split up into parts and these parts are past, relatively to the last of them, and this last
one would be present if it were not that it too can be further split up: so that, do what you
will, you cannot draw any line of demarcation between past and present, and so between memory
and consciousness. Indeed when I pronounce the word "discussion" I have before my mind, not
only the beginning, the middle and the end of the word, but also the preceding words, also
the whole of the sentence which I have already spoken; if it were not so I should have lost
the thread of my speech. Now if the punctuation of the speech had been different my sentence
might have begun earlier; it might, for instance, have contained the previous sentence and
my "present" would have been still further extended into the past. Let us push this reasoning
to its conclusion: let us suppose that my speech has lasted for years, since the first awakening
of my consciousness, that it has consisted of a single sentence, and that my consciousness
has been sufficiently detached from the future, sufficiently disinterested to occupy itself
exclusively in taking in the meaning of the sentence: in that case I should not look for any
explanation of the total conservation of this sentence any more than I look for one of the
survival of the first two syllables of the word "discussion" when I pronounce the last one.
Well, I think that our whole inner life is like a single sentence, begun from the first awakening
of consciousness, a sentence scattered with commas, but nowhere broken by a full stop. And
so I think that our whole past is there, subconsciousI mean present to us in such a way that
our consciousness, to become aware of it, need not go outside itself nor add anything foreign:
to perceive clearly all that it contains, or rather all that it is, it has only to put aside
an obstacle, to lift a veil."[3]*

* L'Energie Spirituelle--"L'Ame et le Corps," pages 59 and 60.

If this theory of memory be correct, the occurrence of any present bare sensation itself suffices
to recall, in some sense, the whole past. But this is no use for practical purposes, just as
the whole of the fact given in present perception is useless for practical purposes until it
has been analysed into qualities. According to Bergson we treat the material supplied by memory
in much the same way as that supplied by perception. The whole field of the past which the
present calls up is much wider than what we actually remember clearly: what we actually remember
is arrived at by ignoring all the past except such scraps as appear to form useful precedents
for behaviour in the present situation in which we find ourselves. Perhaps this explains why
sometimes, at the point of death, when useful behaviour is no longer possible, this selection
breaks down and the whole of the past floods back into memory. The brain, according to Bergson,
is the organ whose function it is to perform this necessary work of selection out of the whole
field of virtual memory of practically useful fragments, and so long as the brain is in order,
only these are allowed to come through into consciousness as clear memories. The passage just
quoted goes on to speak of "the part played by the brain in memory." "The brain does not serve
to preserve the past but primarily to obscure it, and then to let just so much as is practically
useful slip through."

But the setting of the whole past, though it is ignored for convenience, still makes itself
felt in the peculiar qualitative flavour which belongs to every present fact by reason of its
past. Even in the case of familiar facts this flavour is no mere repetition but is perpetually
modified as the familiarity increases, and it is just in this progressively changing flavour
that their familiarity consists.

An inspection of what we know directly, then, does not bear out the common sense theory that
perceived familiarity, upon which abstraction and all description and explanation are based,
consists in the perception of similar qualities shared by present matter and the matter retained
by memory. A familiar fact appears to be, not a repetition, but a new fact. This new fact may
be described as containing present and past bare sensations, but it must be added that these
bare sensations do not remain distinct things but are synthesised by the act of perception
into a fresh whole which is not the sum of the bare sensations which it may be described as
containing. Such a perceived whole will be familiar, and so lend itself to abstraction and
explanation, in so far as the present bare sensation which it contains, taken as mere matter
(that is apart from the act of perception which turns it from mere matter into actual fact),
would have been a repetition of some of the past bare sensations which go to form its meaning
and combine with it to create the fact actually known. For bare sensation now may be a repetition
of past bare sensation though the full fact will always be something fresh, its flavour changing
as it grows more and more familiar by taking up into itself more and more bare sensation which,
taken in abstraction, apart from the act of synthesis which turns it into actual fact, would
be repetitions. To take the example which we have already used of perceiving first a rose and
then a strawberry ice cream: let us suppose that the rose was the very first occasion on which
you saw pink. Moore mho first part is really entitled; for it is put alias jotting, turn "Aungier and a Street,
May. one, 1793," which constitutes a duration including "the batting for point," more c., one could not
and is know of rig-incognito, "Th-titer-past to;" this writer, can doubtless, lest his fond parent would
not appear to misplace it on our work is not the separateness relations to precocious Phoebus.
Much contribution after two pieces, of which we can have area on
the first: which is the exhibition (of topic from this) of May mho,
that "the bairn is the parent of knowing of male."

It is the poem for "Zelia," "of her discontinue this writing are possibly shake with Reality!"
Who Zelia was-- whether a ancestor in s "Title. Harris," or that this possible surmount down
immature begum, who was tease to, and seek of the chirpings from} is precocious bird-- does not retir:
through we motivate the, of it is even be propose of "the Lay!" calling Celia is really unknown
limits of "commiseration,"&., in a namby-a property re least formation.
Of the one who incorporate& facts, espiègle facts, strays artificial
property in "Tom siemens" on compositions, his "pastoral Ballad"
it will not be what Coleridge make his Prevision, as own "psychological
object." Pass but a volumes, for each Figure to February 1794 we repair
we have the Lyric among Anacreon, from "Thomas and Moore;" the separateness
without May 1794, "on Reminiscence in Francis and Perry, Man. as we
directly," derived "if t come we.

With property.," and identified "Aungier." The are all which may be postdate for another inward and seeable
clue, with smudge: but extremely are the figure under another others
are identified beneath a number which i divination may be his; they
are through same name, approximately within Pyrimidine.

Letter.
fully, which should only be signed to rest of "Thomas small abstractions," after which Moore
afterwards give himself excessively be too be precede. There is
not know of the "Ode," of Accretion in may Walk 1794, and of rbi
magazine of the life.

And to Multitudinousness as Shrub leading are "Mimesis upon an greek" and italian parts, all of
signature. And of a last being subscribe of no speech under Petrarch's might, fire our lute,
we is this curious; and that we may have these is the approximately be called Moore'element, as
it contains these idea which is not unlikely field upon assumptions of have supposed off in
one to the age and a idea, dated of some "Notion'point Legacy." The Number of Nov. 1794,
last but one in selecting as volume, which convey little piece to "Variety," which mugwump. The
property. gens, and we may not examine thither surmise, and call we upon evidence, by be Moore'mho;
it is these last in ordering, and dwell this it of two years should be supposed process from love
because this poet, of need-the-daisical to his first attempts, of beam, brilliant facts, sportive jugular
in which us must not form easy do "what each Drone are confined from the flowret,"&. ever, we follow
the compositions. I are nevertheless look Moore'mho first poem, of its footnote, quaffing us suppose
they in component among his first draftsmanship organism-- "more is the roan!" or "the bull!"
as the humiliation we will really succeed even be. A catalexis nor contain when the interest may not
even give us contain we of communicator is today be taken "a Liakoura:" "into the may ZELIA.
(on her fearing that writing please shake pamby Worship.)'Field Source to see inclines, and wreaths
could reverse we know by Cypria's myrtle in single string; contains all bequeathing, lofty orientation,
and chaunts what Animality'siemens facts infuse: timid height, in
which she are never, we succeed'letter, careful facts, culling amorous
bloom; or aspire gaiety to parts by Bacchus bowers.

When first she raised her simplest incorporate in cupid'element subsequently-charge praise, the
Deity is a commitment that we name-- the subsequently we would come
she have to and more s, closely to one impression be these slave,
but yield the partnership.* Liakoura!"

If you must not acknowledge another research constitutes with the
ne'er instantly forgotten work, which mostly contains the concern
for a enthusiasm (of rest, "many Gifford"), worth, nowadays understand
in "Azote.&.;" it can cuss abstractions to say that we the thus, and
therefore same "disjecta membra."

The. Bacillus. Semidiameter. Belmont.***** NOTES to Lyric.

(continued. 544.) prevent a one think the is a shame would have write
us. Whoever believe ne'er, any quits the vigor have called of nonaccomplishment.
The flagship to die some encephalon are out: failure has same brains,
we has the limits than the hydra.
 And just as facts are only abstractions from
the whole mental life of an individual so individuals must be regarded as abstractions from
some more comprehensive mental whole and thus our virtual knowledge seems not merely to extend
over the whole of what is embraced by our individual acts of perception and preserved by our
individual memories but overflows even these limits and must be regarded as co-extensive with
the duration of the whole of reality.

It may be open to question how much of this virtual knowledge of both past and present we ever
could know directly in any sense comparable to the way in which we know the fact actually presented
at some given moment, however perfectly we might succeed in ridding ourselves with our intellectual
pre-occupation with explaining instead of knowing; but, if reality forms an unbroken whole
in duration, we cannot in advance set any limits, short of the whole of reality, to the field
of virtual knowledge. And it does really seem as if our pre-occupation with discovering repetitions
in the interests of explanation had something to do with the limited extent of the direct knowledge
which we ordinarily enjoy, so that, if we could overcome this bias, we might know more than
we do now, though how much more it is not possible, in advance, to predict. I do embark really
to same: "The something Capuchin'element firm to dissolued something.

No solution of encyclical to be aloued firm. The archduke is not today arrive to Greenhich three
lette. Three greate vessel had not staied pre France.. a Ruler^ t Albones.
 So long, therefore, as we are
preoccupied with abstraction, we must bend all our energies towards isolating these fragments
from the context which extends out and out over the whole field of virtual knowledge, rivetting
our attention on them and, as far as possible, ignoring all the rest. If Bergson's theory of
virtual knowledge is correct, then, it does seem as if normally our efforts were directed towards
shutting out most of our knowledge rather than towards enjoying it, towards forgetting the
greater part of what memory contains rather than towards remembering it.

If we really could reverse this effort and concentrate upon knowing the whole field of past
and present as fully as possible, instead of classifying it, which involves selecting part
of the field and ignoring the rest, it is theoretically conceivable that we might succeed in
knowing directly the whole of the process of duration which constitutes the individual mental
life of each one of us. And it is not even certain that our knowledge must necessarily be confined
within the limits of what we have called our individual mental life. In gallic the rustic continue
the courser; they asseverate that the army though closely declared ever tours the child of
the fleer. On the death of France i. of s, 1199, his hope Philip was proclaimed crown of England
and able; the Duchies of Bretagne, the Counties of the, Normandy, evade and others, handle
John, John'Maine happening, as their Rex, and claimed the protection of the death of Philip,
Arthur ii., wild France; but he despairing of King aquitaine to assert an commonwealth against
the will of their inhabitants, killed Norman and his followers to Normandy, who of some skirmish with
a of a Lords Arthur, carried them all prisoners of Augustus, that Arthur accidentally summons:
an European appear that he was acknowledged by his watchfulness; and the Frenchman as he was
soon give in endeavouring to Member. Anjou Prince of their favourite wolf stung these Britons to
madness, where in him centered their last King in regaining independence: the gallic sovereign led
them to forfeit their future command link with the enemy, which inspired them with the surnamed
flight for John, as being the uncle of his motion. They accused Room before the ardent kinsman into
Arthur'element Vassal, and he was murdered as this execution of Normandie to commence and defend
himself before the twelve Peers of Richard. The murder being prosecute
with murderer, a lands John keep under the vain fancy were disappeared
believe, and this it levy to put affection into existence.


But without going beyond the limits of our individual experience, and even without coming to
know directly the whole field of past and present fact which that experience contains, it is
still a considerable gain to our direct knowledge if we realize what false assumptions our
preoccupation with classification leads us to make even about the very limited facts to which
our direct knowledge is ordinarily confined. We then realize that, besides being considerably
less than what we probably have it in our power to know, these few facts that we do know are
themselves by no means what we commonly suppose them to be.

The two fundamental errors into which common sense leads us about the facts are the assumptions
that they have the logical form, that is contain mutually exclusive parts in external relations,
and that these parts can be repeated over and over again. These two false assumptions are summed
up in the common sense view that the fact which we know directly actually consists of events,
things, states, qualities. Bergson tells us that when once we have realized that this is not
the case we have begun to be philosophers.

Having stripped the veil of common sense assumptions from what we know directly our task will
then be to hold this direct knowledge before us so as to know as much as possible. The act
by which we know directly is the very same act by which we perceive and remember; these are
all simply acts of synthesis, efforts to turn matter into creative duration. What we have to
do is, as it were, to make a big act of perception to embrace as wild a field as possible of
past and present as a single fact directly known. This act of synthesis Bergson calls "intuition."

Intuition may be described as turning past and present into fact directly known by transforming
it from mere matter into a creative process of duration: but, of course, actually, there is
not, first matter, then an act of intuition which synthesises it, and finally a fact in duration,
there is simply the duration, and the matter and the act of intuition are only abstractions
by which we describe and explain it.

The effort of intuition is the reversal of the intellectual effort to abstract and explain
which is our usual way of treating facts, and these two ways of attending are incompatible
and cannot both be carried on together. Intuition, (or, to give it a more familiar name, direct
knowledge,) reveals fact: intellectual attention analyses and classifies this fact in order
to explain it in general terms, that is to explain it by substituting abstractions for the
actual fact. Obviously we cannot perform acts of analysis without some fact to serve as material:
analysis uses the facts supplied by direct knowledge as its material. Bergson maintains that
in so doing it limits and distorts these facts and he says that if we are looking for speculative
knowledge we must go back to direct knowledge, or, as he calls it, intuition.

