     "Item.  Because, besides the other things which are asked for there
     according to the memoranda which you are carrying signed by my hand,
     for the maintenance of the persons in good health as well as for the
     sick ones, it would be very well to have fifty casks of molasses
     (miel de azucar) from the island of Madeira, as it is the best
     sustenance in the world and the most healthful, and it does not
     usually cost more than two ducats per cask, without the cask: and if
     their Highnesses order some caravel to stop there in returning, it
     can be purchased and also ten cases of sugar, which is very
     necessary; as this is the best season of the year to obtain it, I
     say between the present time and the month of April, and to obtain
     it at a reasonable price.  If their Highnesses command it, the order
     could be given, and it would not be known there for what place it is
     wanted.  You will say to their Highnesses that although the rivers
     contain gold in the quantity related by those who have seen it, yet
     it is certain that the gold is not engendered in the rivers but
     rather on the land, the waters of the rivers which flow by the mines
     bringing it enveloped in the sands: and as among these rivers which
     have been discovered there are some very large ones, there are
     others so small that they are fountains rather than rivers, which
     are not more than two fingers of water in depth, and then the source
     from which they spring may be found: for this reason not only
     labourers to gather it in the sand will be profitable, but others to
     dig for it in the earth, which will be the most particular operation
     and produce a great quantity.  And for this, it will be well for
     their Highnesses to send labourers, and from among those who work
     yonder in Spain in the mines of Almaden, that the work may be done
     in both ways.  Although we will not await them here, as with the
     labourers we have here we hope, with the aid of God, once the people
     are in good health, to amass a good quantity of gold to be sent on
     the first caravels which return.

          ["This will be fully provided for in another manner.  In the
          meantime their Highnesses order Don Yuan de Fonseca to send the
          best miners he can obtain; and to write to Almaden to have the
          greatest possible number taken from there and sent.]

     "Item.  You will entreat their Highnesses very humbly on my part, to
     consider Villacorta as speedily recommended to them, who, as their
     Highnesses know, has rendered great service in this business, and
     with a very good will, and as I know him, he is a diligent person
     and very devoted to their service: it will be a favour to me if he
     is given some confidential charge for which he is fitted, and where
     he can show his desire to serve them and his diligence: and this you
     will obtain in such a way that Villacorta may know by the result,
     that what he has done for me when I needed him profits him in this
     manner.

          ["It will be done thus.]

     "Item.  That the said Mosen Pedro and Gaspar and Beltran and others
     who have remained here gave up the captainship of caravels, which
     have now returned, and are not receiving wages: but because they are
     persons who must be employed in important matters and of confidence,
     their compensation, which must be different from the others, has not
     been determined.  You will entreat their Highnesses on my part to
     determine what is to be given them each year, or by the month,
     according to their service.

     "Done in the city of Isabella, January 30, 1494.

