But what do we mean now by peace? We mean more than a mere cessation of hostilities. We mean
that the burglar shall give back all that he has grabbed. We mean that the marauder shall make
good all the damage that he has done. We mean that there shall be an open league of free democratic
states, great and small, to guard against the recurrence of such a bloody calamity as the autocratic,
militaristic Potsdam gang precipitated upon the world in 1914.

In the next chapter I shall discuss briefly the practical significance of this kind of peace
and the absolute preconditions which must be realized before any conference on the subject
will be profitable or even safe.

The duty of the present is to fight on beside France, Great Britain, Italy, Belgium, Servia,
Roumania, and, we hope, Russia, "to bring the Government of the German Empire to terms and
end the war."

To talk of any other course is treason, not only to our country but to the cause of true Peace.

Chapter VII

PAX HUMANA

I

The trouble with the ordinary or garden variety of pacifist is that he has a merely negative
idea of peace.

The true idea of peace is positive, constructive, forward-looking. It is not content with a
mere cessation of hostilities at any particular period of the world's history. It aims at the
establishment of reason and justice as the rule of the world's life. It proposes to find the
basis of this establishment in the freely expressed will of the peoples of the world.

The men and women who do the world's work are the sovereigns who must guarantee this real peace
of the world.

That is what we are fighting for. Not pax Romana, nor pax Germanica, nor pax Britannica, but
pax Humana--a peace which will bring a positive benefit to all the tribes of humanity.

Since the choice by the Imperial German Government, in August, 1914, of war as the means of
settling international disputes, the Allies have been fighting against that choice and its
bloody consequences. Every one of them--Great Britain, France, Italy, Russia--had pleaded for
arbitration, conference, consultation, to avert this fearful conflict of arms. But it was in vain.

The United States of America, forced by the flagrant violation of its neutral rights to take
an active part in the war, and led by its vital sympathies to the side of the Allies, committed
by honor and conscience to the duty of fighting for a real peace of mankind, must carry on
this war until its humane and democratic object is attained. To do less than that would be
to renounce our place as a great nation, to deny our faith as Americans, and to expose our
country to incalculable peril and disaster.

But now that all the nations of the earth have begun to realize the horror of this abominable
German war, and to desire its ending, it is necessary for us, in conjunction with our friends
of peaceful and democratic purpose, to consider, first, the conditions under which peace may
be discussed with the Imperial German Government, and, second, the terms on which a peace may
possibly be concluded.

II THE CONDITIONS OF A PEACE CONFERENCE

We should distinguish clearly between the conditions which must be fulfilled before we can
honorably enter into any talk of peace with our adversary, the begetter and beginner of this
war; and the terms which the Allies and the United States and the other nations at war with
Germany would put forward in such a conversation as a just and durable basis for the establishment
of peace.

This distinction is essential. The conditions are antecedent and indispensable. Until they
are fulfilled we cannot talk with the enemy, except in the language which he has chosen and
forced upon us--the stern tongue of battle by land and sea.

Germany grandiloquently claims to be the first to propose a peace-conference as a substitute
for the horrors of war. (See the Kaiser's note of December 12, 1916. [Footnote 9])

[Footnote 9: This note contains not the slightest reference to the nature of the suggested
peace. Its tone conforms to the orders which the Kaiser issued to his army on the same day:
"Under the influence of the victory which you have gained by your bravery, I and the monarchs
of the three states in alliance with me have made an offer of peace to the enemy. It is uncertain
whether the object at which this offer is aimed will be reached. You will have meanwhile, with
God's help, to continue to resist and defeat the enemy." It was not a proposal of peace. It
was a proclamation of victory--German victory--and an invitation to surrender.]

She forgets the many proposals for such a conference which were made to her in the fateful
month of July, 1914, by Servia, France, Great Britain, Italy, and Russia--all of which she
contemptuously brushed aside in her scornful will to war. She forgets the offenses against
international law and against the plain precepts of humanity which she has committed since
that time and which have earned for her the indignation and mistrust of mankind. She forgets
that her so-called proposal for a peace conference contained no suggestion of the terms of
peace which she was willing to discuss. She forgets that such a proposal is a mere hypocritical
mockery. No sane person, no intelligent nation, would enter into a conference without knowledge
of the things to be considered. This note, I believe, was sent to all the American Ambassadors
and Ministers in Europe, with instructions to communicate it to the Governments to which they
were accredited, whether belligerent or neutral.

Here is a point at which I can throw a little new light upon the situation. I handed the note,
as I was ordered to do, to the Dutch Minister, without comment or recommendation. Almost immediately
the German-subsidized press in Holland began to assail the Dutch Government for refusing to
support President Wilson's note. It seemed to me that this was a falsehood, unjust to Holland,
injurious to our Government, which had not asked for support. Therefore I made the following
statement to the press on January 9, 1917:

"The Dutch Minister of Foreign Affairs is absolutely correct in saying that I handed him President
Wilson's note of December 18 without any request or suggestion that the Netherlands Government
should support it. I did so because I was so instructed by my Government. I was told to transmit
the President's note simply as a matter of information. No request was added. The reason for
this is because America understands the delicate and difficult position of the Netherlands
Government, in the midst of the present war, and will not urge nor even ask it to do anything
which it does not judge to be wise and prudent and helpful. I have done my best to promote
this right understanding of the position of Holland in the United States, and I shall continue
to do so. I have no knowledge of any instructions from Washington in regard to the manner of
delivering the President's note in Spain.

"What I cannot understand is the general misunderstanding of that note. It expressly declared
that it was not an offer of mediation nor a proposal of peace. It was simply a suggestion that
the belligerents on both sides should state the terms on which they would be willing to consider
and discuss peace. The Entente Powers have already done this with some clearness, and will
probably soon do so even more clearly. The Central Powers have politely, even affectionately,
but very practically, declined the President's invitation to state their terms. There is the
deadlock on peace talk at present. When both sides are equally frank the world can judge whether
the peace which all just men desire is near or far away."

