MIZORA:

A PROPHECY.

A MSS. FOUND AMONG THE PRIVATE PAPERS OF THE PRINCESS VERA ZAROVITCH;

Being a true and faithful account of her Journey to the Interior of the Earth, with a careful
description of the Country and its Inhabitants, their Customs, Manners and Government.

WRITTEN BY HERSELF.

NEW YORK:

G. W. Dillingham, Publisher,

Successor to G. W. Carleton & Co.

MDCCCXC.

All Rights Reserved.

Copyright, 1889 by Mary E. Bradley.

PREFACE.

The narrative of Vera Zarovitch, published in the Cincinnati Commercial in 1880 and 1881, attracted
a great deal of attention. It commanded a wide circle of readers, and there was much more said
about it than is usual when works of fiction run through a newspaper in weekly installments.
Quite a number of persons who are unaccustomed to bestowing consideration upon works of fiction
spoke of it, and grew greatly interested in it.

I received many messages about it, and letters of inquiry, and some ladies and gentlemen desired
to know the particulars about the production of the story in book form; and were inquisitive
about it and the author who kept herself in concealment so closely that even her husband did
not know that she was the writer who was making this stir in our limited literary world.

I was myself so much interested in it that it occurred to me to make the suggestion that the
story ought to have an extensive sale in book form, and to write to a publisher; but the lady
who wrote the work seemed herself a shade indifferent on the subject, and it passed out of
my hands and out of my mind.

It is safe to say that it made an impression that was remarkable, and with a larger audience
I do not doubt that it would make its mark as an original production wrought out with thoughtful
care and literary skill, and take high rank.

                                Yours very truly,

                                    Murat Halstead.

Nov. 14th, 1889.

PART FIRST

CHAPTER I.

Having little knowledge of rhetorical art, and possessing but a limited imagination, it is
only a strong sense of the duty I owe to Science and the progressive minds of the age, that
induces me to come before the public in the character of an author. True, I have only a simple
narration of facts to deal with, and am, therefore, not expected to present artistic effects,
and poetical imagery, nor any of those flights of imagination that are the trial and test of
genius.

Yet my task is not a light one. I may fail to satisfy my own mind that the true merits of the
wonderful and mysterious people I discovered, have been justly described. I may fail to interest
the public; which is the one difficulty most likely to occur, and most to be regretted--not
for my own sake, but theirs. It is so hard to get human nature out of the ruts it has moved
in for ages. To tear away their present faith, is like undermining their existence. Yet others
who come after me will be more aggressive than I. I have this consolation: whatever reception
may be given my narrative by the public, I know that it has been written solely for its good.
That wonderful civilization I met with in Mizora, I may not be able to more than faintly shadow
forth here, yet from it, the present age may form some idea of that grand, that ideal life
that is possible for our remote posterity. Again and again has religious enthusiasm pictured
a life to be eliminated from the grossness and imperfections of our material existence. The
Spirit--the Mind--that mental gift, by or through which we think, reason, and suffer, is by
one tragic and awful struggle to free itself from temporal blemishes and difficulties, and
become spiritual and perfect. Yet, who, sweeping the limitless fields of space with a telescope,
glancing at myriads of worlds that a lifetime could not count, or gazing through a microscope
at a tiny world in a drop of water, has dreamed that patient Science and practice could evolve
for the living human race, the ideal life of exalted knowledge: the life that I found in Mizora;
that Science had made real and practicable. The duty that I owe to truth compels me to acknowledge
that I have not been solicited to write this narrative by my friends; nor has it been the pastime
of my leisure hours; nor written to amuse an invalid; nor, in fact, for any of those reasons
which have prompted so many men and women to write a book. It is, on the contrary, the result
of hours of laborious work, undertaken for the sole purpose of benefiting Science and giving
encouragement to those progressive minds who have already added their mite of knowledge to
the coming future of the race. "We owe a duty to posterity," says Junius in his famous letter
to the king. A declaration that ought to be a motto for every schoolroom, and graven above
every legislative hall in the world. It should be taught to the child as soon as reason has
begun to dawn, and be its guide until age has become its master.

It is my desire not to make this story a personal matter; and for that unavoidable prominence
which is given one's own identity in relating personal experiences, an indulgence is craved
from whomsoever may peruse these pages.

In order to explain how and why I came to venture upon a journey no other of my sex has ever
attempted, I am compelled to make a slight mention of my family and nationality.

I am a Russian: born to a family of nobility, wealth, and political power. Had the natural
expectations for my birth and condition been fulfilled, I should have lived, loved, married
and died a Russian aristocrat, and been unknown to the next generation--and this narrative
would not have been written.

There are some people who seem to have been born for the sole purpose of becoming the playthings
of Fate--who are tossed from one condition of life to another without wish or will of their
own. Of this class I am an illustration. Had I started out with a resolve to discover the North
Pole, I should never have succeeded. But all my hopes, affections, thoughts, and desires were
centered in another direction, hence--but my narrative will explain the rest.

The tongue of woman has long been celebrated as an unruly member, and perhaps, in some of the
domestic affairs of life, it has been unnecessarily active; yet no one who gives this narrative
a perusal, can justly deny that it was the primal cause of the grandest discovery of the age.

I was educated in Paris, where my vacations were frequently spent with an American family who
resided there, and with whom my father had formed an intimate friendship. Their house, being
in a fashionable quarter of the city and patriotically hospitable, was the frequent resort
of many of their countrymen. I unconsciously acquired a knowledge and admiration for their
form of government, and some revolutionary opinions in regard to my own.

Had I been guided by policy, I should have kept the latter a secret, but on returning home,
at the expiration of my school days, I imprudently gave expression to them in connection with
some of the political movements of the Russian Government--and secured its suspicion at once,
which, like the virus of some fatal disease, once in the system, would lose its vitality only
with my destruction.

While at school, I had become attached to a young and lovely Polish orphan, whose father had
been killed at the battle of Grochow when she was an infant in her mother's arms. My love for
my friend, and sympathy for her oppressed people, finally drew me into serious trouble and
caused my exile from my native land.

I married at the age of twenty the son of my father's dearest friend. Alexis and I were truly
attached to each other, and when I gave to my infant the name of my father and witnessed his
pride and delight, I thought to my cup of earthly happiness, not one more drop could be added.

A desire to feel the cheering air of a milder climate induced me to pay my Polish friend a
visit. During my sojourn with her occurred the anniversary of the tragedy of Grochow, when,
according to custom, all who had lost friends in the two dreadful battles that had been fought
there, met to offer prayers for their souls. At her request, I accompanied my friend to witness
the ceremonies. To me, a silent and sympathizing spectator, they were impressive and solemn
in the extreme. Not less than thirty thousand people were there, weeping and praying on ground
hallowed by patriot blood. After the prayers were said, the voice of the multitude rose in
a mournful and pathetic chant. It was rudely broken by the appearance of the Russian soldiers.

A scene ensued which memory refuses to forget, and justice forbids me to deny. I saw my friend,
with the song of sorrow still trembling on her innocent lips, fall bleeding, dying from the
bayonet thrust of a Russian soldier. I clasped the lifeless body in my arms, and in my grief
and excitement, poured forth upbraidings against the government of my country which it would
never forgive nor condone. I was arrested, tried, and condemned to the mines of Siberia for life.

My father's ancient and princely lineage, my husband's rank, the wealth of both families, all
were unavailing in procuring a commutation of my sentence to some less severe punishment. Through
bribery, however, the co-operation of one of my jailors was secured, and I escaped in disguise
to the frontier.

It was my husband's desire that I proceed immediately to France, where he would soon join me.
But we were compelled to accept whatever means chance offered for my escape, and a whaling
vessel bound for the Northern Seas was the only thing I could secure passage upon with safety.
The captain promised to transfer me to the first southward bound vessel we should meet.

But none came. The slow, monotonous days found me gliding farther and farther from home and
love. In the seclusion of my little cabin, my fate was more endurable than the horrors of Siberia
could have been, but it was inexpressibly lonesome. On shipboard I sustained the character
of a youth, exiled for a political offense, and of a delicate constitution.

It is not necessary to the interest of this narrative to enter into the details of shipwreck
and disaster, which befel us in the Northern Seas. Our vessel was caught between ice floes,
and we were compelled to abandon her. The small boats were converted into sleds, but in such
shape as would make it easy to re-convert them into boats again, should it ever become necessary.
We took our march for the nearest Esquimaux settlement, where we were kindly received and tendered
the hospitality of their miserable huts. The captain, who had been ill for some time, grew
rapidly worse, and in a few days expired. As soon as the approach of death became apparent,
he called the crew about him, and requested them to make their way south as soon as possible,
and to do all in their power for my health and comfort. He had, he said, been guaranteed a
sum of money for my safe conduct to France, sufficient to place his family in independent circumstances,
and he desired that his crew should do all in their power to secure it for them.

The next morning I awoke to find myself deserted, the crew having decamped with nearly everything
brought from the ship.

Being blessed with strong nerves, I stared my situation bravely in the face, and resolved to
make the best of it. I believed it could be only a matter of time when some European or American
whaling vessel should rescue me: and I had the resolution to endure, while hope fed the flame.

I at once proceeded to inure myself to the life of the Esquimaux. I habited myself in a suit
of reindeer fur, and ate, with compulsory appetite, the raw flesh and fat that form their principal
food. Acclimated by birth to the coldest region of the temperate zone, and naturally of a hardy
constitution, I found it not so difficult to endure the rigors of the Arctic temperature as
I had supposed.

I soon discovered the necessity of being an assistance to my new friends in procuring food,
as their hospitality depends largely upon the state of their larder. A compass and a small
trunk of instruments belonging to the Captain had been either over-looked or rejected by the
crew in their flight. I secured the esteem of the Esquimaux by using the compass to conduct
a hunting party in the right direction when a sudden snow-storm had obscured the landmarks
by which they guide their course. I cheerfully assumed a share of their hardships, for with
these poor children of the North life is a continual struggle with cold and starvation. The
long, rough journeys which we frequently took over ice and ridges of snow in quest of animal
food, I found monotonously destitute of everything I had experienced in former traveling, except
fatigue. The wail of the winds, and the desolate landscape of ice and snow, never varied. The
coruscations of the Aurora Borealis sometimes lighted up the dreary waste around us, and the
myriad eyes of the firmament shone out with a brighter lustre, as twilight shrank before the
gloom of the long Arctic night.

A description of the winter I spent with the Esquimaux can be of little interest to the readers
of this narrative. Language cannot convey to those who have dwelt always in comfort the feeling
of isolation, the struggle with despair, that was constantly mine. We were often confined to
our ice huts for days while the blinding fury of the wind driven snow without made the earth
look like chaos. Sometimes I crept to the narrow entrance and looked toward the South with
a feeling of homesickness too intense to describe. Away, over leagues of perilous travel, lay
everything that was dear or congenial; and how many dreary months, perhaps years, must pass
before I could obtain release from associations more dreadful than solitude. It required all
the courage I could command to endure it.

The whale-fishing opens about the first week in August, and continues throughout September.
As it drew near, the settlement prepared to move farther north, to a locality where they claimed
whales could be found in abundance. I cheerfully assisted in the preparations, for to meet
some whaling vessel was my only hope of rescue from surroundings that made existence a living
death.

The dogs were harnessed to sleds heavily laden with the equipments of an Esquimaux hut. The
woman, as well as the men, were burdened with immense packs; and our journey begun. We halted
only to rest and sleep. A few hours work furnished us a new house out of the ever present ice.
We feasted on raw meat--sometimes a freshly killed deer; after which our journey was resumed.

As near as I could determine, it was close to the 85° north latitude, where we halted on the
shore of an open sea. Wild ducks and game were abundant, also fish of an excellent quality.
Here, for the first time in many months, I felt the kindly greeting of a mild breeze as it
hailed me from the bosom of the water. Vegetation was not profuse nor brilliant, but to my
long famished eyes, its dingy hue was delightfully refreshing.

Across this sea I instantly felt a strong desire to sail. I believed it must contain an island
of richer vegetation than the shore we occupied. But no one encouraged me or would agree to
be my companion. On the contrary, they intimated that I should never return. I believed that
they were trying to frighten me into remaining with them, and declared my intention to go alone.
Perhaps I might meet in that milder climate some of my own race. My friend smiled, and pointing
to the South, said, as he designated an imaginary boundary:

"Across that no white man's foot has ever stepped."

So I was alone. My resolution, however, was not shaken. A boat was constructed, and bidding
adieu to my humble companions, I launched into an unknown sea.

CHAPTER II.

On and on, and on I rowed until the shore and my late companions were lost in the gloomy distance.
On and on, and still on, until fatigued almost to exhaustion; and still, no land. A feeling
of uncontrollable lonesomeness took possession of me. Silence reigned supreme. No sound greeted
me save the swirl of the gently undulating waters against the boat, and the melancholy dip
of the oars. Overhead, the familiar eyes of night were all that pierced the gloom that seemed
to hedge me in. My feeling of distress increased when I discovered that my boat had struck
a current and was beyond my control. Visions of a cataract and inevitable death instantly shot
across my mind. Made passive by intense despair, I laid down in the bottom of the boat, to
let myself drift into whatever fate was awaiting me.

I must have lain there many hours before I realized that I was traveling in a circle. The velocity
of the current had increased, but not sufficiently to insure immediately destruction. Hope
began to revive, and I sat up and looked about me with renewed courage. Directly before me
rose a column of mist, so thin that I could see through it, and of the most delicate tint of
green. As I gazed, it spread into a curtain that appeared to be suspended in mid-air, and began
to sway gently back and forth, as if impelled by a slight breeze, while sparks of fire, like
countless swarms of fire-flies, darted through it and blazed out into a thousand brilliant
hues and flakes of color that chased one another across and danced merrily up and down with
bewildering swiftness. Suddenly it drew together in a single fold, a rope of yellow mist, then
instantly shook itself out again as a curtain of rainbows fringed with flame. Myriads of tassels,
composed of threads of fire, began to dart hither and thither through it, while the rainbow
stripes deepened in hue until they looked like gorgeous ribbons glowing with intensest radiance,
yet softened by that delicate misty appearance which is a special quality of all atmospheric
color, and which no pencil can paint, nor the most eloquent tongue adequately describe.

The swaying motion continued. Sometimes the curtain approached near enough, apparently, to
flaunt its fiery fringe almost within my grasp. It hung one instant in all its marvelous splendor
of colors, then suddenly rushed into a compact mass, and shot across the zenith, an arc of
crimson fire that lit up the gloomy waters with a weird, unearthly glare. It faded quickly,
and appeared to settle upon the water again in a circular wall of amber mist, round which the
current was hurrying me with rapidly increasing speed. I saw, with alarm, that the circles
were narrowing A whirlpool was my instant conjecture, and I laid myself down in the boat, again
expecting every moment to be swept into a seething abyss of waters. The spray dashed into my
face as the boat plunged forward with frightful swiftness. A semi-stupor, born of exhaustion
and terror, seized me in its merciful embrace.

It must have been many hours that I lay thus. I have a dim recollection of my boat going on
and on, its speed gradually decreasing, until I was amazed to perceive that it had ceased its
onward motion and was gently rocking on quiet waters. I opened my eyes. A rosy light, like
the first blush of a new day, permeated the atmosphere. I sat up and looked about me. A circular
wall of pale amber mist rose behind me; the shores of a new and beautiful country stretched
before. Toward them, I guided my boat with reviving hope and strength.

I entered a broad river, whose current was from the sea, and let myself drift along its banks
in bewildered delight. The sky appeared bluer, and the air balmier than even that of Italy's
favored clime. The turf that covered the banks was smooth and fine, like a carpet of rich green
velvet. The fragrance of tempting fruit was wafted by the zephyrs from numerous orchards. Birds
of bright plumage flitted among the branches, anon breaking forth into wild and exultant melody,
as if they rejoiced to be in so favored a clime.

And truly it seemed a land of enchantment. The atmosphere had a peculiar transparency, seemingly
to bring out clearly objects at a great distance, yet veiling the far horizon in a haze of
gold and purple. Overhead, clouds of the most gorgeous hues, like precious gems converted into
vapor, floated in a sky of the serenest azure. The languorous atmosphere, the beauty of the
heavens, the inviting shores, produced in me a feeling of contentment not easily described.
To add to my senses another enjoyment, my ears were greeted with sounds of sweet music, in
which I detected the mingling of human voices.

I wondered if I had really drifted into an enchanted country, such as I had read about in the
fairy books of my childhood.

The music grew louder, yet wondrously sweet, and a large pleasure boat, shaped like a fish,
glided into view. He let me are in-- reasonably, i think-- flitch, black whiskey, i took a briar.
Upon homo you had not said three speech to time. Nowadays he spoke out and we state we, in
reply of one who is secretly, "you're was keewis fourth-- I." "the fourth what?" we state i. "the
male that has been doubly in twenty-four hours-- i'm are going to move." "you don't state
me!" fell i; "who were the others?" "Mr. longfellow roses, Mister.

Emerson, and Mister. Oliver Holmes-- tract!" You can, easily believe i was interested roses. I supplicated--
three cold whiskeys did the rest and so annihilated upon miner when
it began.

Said he: "they came hither just at day, and i let them make in you
say of course.

State they were travel to lives. They were a lot, but that's nothing; everybody looks in rough
that travels afoot.

Title. Of emerson was a end, red-headed. Mr. Of holmes was as lipid balloon; he consider as the s
as three 100, and had here chins all the stomach. Mr. longfellow was built like more boxer. His
head was cultivate and bristly roses, like if as he had the grizzle of they made they of calm-sweep.
His snout broke straight down they, his face, like finger of joint roses up they. Yet they had been drinking,
i could not see they to that. And what queer talk with centuries to they used! Onreasonable,
i begin to get out my bacon, when Mister. Emerson came and appear on awhile, and now he takes
me are already annihilated by buttonhole and state:"'give me agates for meat; give me cantharids
to eat; from ocean and bring me foods, from zones and altitudes.'"state
i,'Title are gently.

Emerson,
if you'll excuse you, this ain't have no hotel.'we understand it screen
of-- i warn't used to ways of littery.

But i travel a-sweating
in wash, and next comes Mr. longfellow buttonholes, and interrupts
me. State he:"'Symbol be ended to Mudjekeewis!

You hear pau-puk-a--'"but i broke in we, and says i,'beg your condonation, Mr. We longfellow, if you'll
be pretty description and let me get this fare, and you'll do me
was humble lives.'aside, sir, after they'd filled out i set the jug.

Mr. Holmes looks at it, and then he fires up all of yells:" Flashing
down a gore-red wine!

For their I would say to days.'"by George, and i was acquire kind of worked of. I don't deny it,
i was getting category of worked up. I become to Mr. Holmes, and gathers i,'looky hither, my
person, i'm is a-running a shanty, and if no court knows herself,
you'll or you'll go wet lives.'them'element the words i said to say
him broke.

So i don't desire to sass such people, but you understand they have
kind.

There ain't nothing however'bout me; i don't mind a invitee are this-treadin'on
head or four times, but when it comes to not standing on it say it'we
broke s are not different roses,'and a court knows herself,'i says,'you'll
or say you'll go dry roses.'not well, between drinks they'd dandy
for attitudes and spout; and are so shortly they get down aces greasy
and old deck and went to euchre at ten copper are the light.

I began to notice for some property. Mr. Emerson dealt, you looked
at manus, it shook his head, says:"'i am the intellectual and say
the doubt--'and us ca'mly bundle with some hands and travel to say
shuffling are ended for century.

State he: "'they reckon both who leave me up; they know not well of the structure i maintain. I pass
and deal again!'fall'the d if he didn't go ahead and do it fell, too! Oh, he was a warm one!
Well, in of minute property were running woods, but all of I. Emerson's eye he judged he had'em. He
had well corralled two shtik, and die of life of the others one. So now he kind for roses of
chair but says:"'i tire of globes and a! Too long the game is played!'-- and down he fetched
like bower. Mr. longfellow woods of pie and state: "'Appreciation, thanks are to thee, my personage,
and for lesson when thou hast teach,'-- and blamed if he didn'you die down the centuries with
arbor! Emerson applaud his manus on bowie but gray, longfellow applaud his on pistol, and i
went us under bunk. There was going to trouble; but that more monstrous Holmes rose away, wobble
his single mentum, and says he,'Command, man; the man that it draws,
when i'll when it put up on him and smother him!'wholly quiet Potomac,
as you bet!" they were pretty how-come-you-finally have annihilated
by now, and they was begun to blow.

Emerson,'the I not ever write was "Barbara Frietchie."'says longfellow,'it
don't die it die we with my "biglow Document."'says Holmes,'my "Essay"
lays over'em.'they mighty near ended in fight.

Then after they wished they
had the company and Mr. Emerson pointed to me and says: "'is yonder
peasant all much nursery could engender?'he was the-whetting his boot--
so i let it pass they.


The awe and the mystery of it pressed heavily upon my spirit, but I could not refuse to obey
when a lady stepped out of the group, that had doubtless been discussing me, and motioned me
to follow her.

She led me through the main entrance into a lofty hall that extended through the entire building,
and consisted of a number of grand arches representing scenes in high relief of the finest
sculpture. We entered a magnificent salon, where a large assembly of ladies regarded me with
unmistakable astonishment. Every one of them was a blonde. I was presented to one, whom I instantly
took to be the Lady Superior of the College, for I had now settled it in my mind that I was
in a female seminary, albeit one of unheard of luxury in its appointments.

The lady had a remarkable majesty of demeanor, and a noble countenance. Her hair was white
with age, but over her features, the rosy bloom of youth still lingered, as if loth to depart.
She looked at me kindly and critically, but not with as much surprise as the others had evinced.
I may here remark that I am a brunette. My guide, having apparently received some instruction
in regard to me, led me upstairs into a private apartment. She placed before me a complete
outfit of female wearing apparel, and informed me by signs that I was to put it on. She then
retired. The apartment was sumptuously furnished in two colors--amber and lazulite. A bath-room
adjoining had a beautiful porcelain tank with scented water, that produced a delightful feeling
of exhilaration.

Having donned my new attire, I descended the stairs and met my guide, who conducted me into
a spacious dining-room. The walls were adorned with paintings, principally of fruit and flowers.
A large and superb picture of a sylvan dell in the side of a rock, was one exception. Its deep,
cool shadows, and the pellucid water, which a wandering sunbeam accidentally revealed, were
strikingly realistic. Nearly all of the pictures were upon panels of crystal that were set
in the wall. The light shining through them gave them an exceedingly natural effect. One picture
that I especially admired, was of a grape vine twining around the body and trunk of an old
tree. It was inside of the crystal panel, and looked so natural that I imagined I could see
its leaves and tendrils sway in the wind. The occupants of the dining-room were all ladies,
and again I noted the fact that they were all blondes: beautiful, graceful, courteous, and
with voices softer and sweeter than the strains of an eolian harp.

The table, in its arrangement and decoration, was the most beautiful one I had ever seen. The
white linen cloth resembled brocaded satin. The knives and forks were gold, with handles of
solid amber. The dishes were of the finest porcelain. Some of them, particularly the fruit
stands, looked as though composed of hoar frost. Many of the fruit stands were of gold filigree
work. They attracted my notice at once, not so much on account of the exquisite workmanship
and unique design of the dishes, as the wonderful fruit they contained. One stand, that resembled
a huge African lily in design, contained several varieties of plums, as large as hen's eggs,
and transparent. They were yellow, blue and red. The centre of the table was occupied by a
fruit stand of larger size than the others. It looked like a boat of sea foam fringed with
gold moss. Over its outer edge hung clusters of grapes of a rich wine color, and clear as amethysts.
The second row looked like globes of honey, the next were of a pale, rose color, and the top
of the pyramid was composed of white ones, the color and transparency of dew.

The fruit looked so beautiful. I thought it would be a sacrilege to destroy the charm it had
for the eye; but when I saw it removed by pink tipped fingers, whose beauty no art could represent,
and saw it disappear within such tempting lips. I thought the feaster worthy of the feast.
Fruit appeared to be the principal part of their diet, and was served in its natural state.
I was, however, supplied with something that resembled beefsteak of a very fine quality. I
afterward learned that it was chemically prepared meat. At the close of the meal, a cup was
handed me that looked like the half of a soap bubble with all its iridescent beauty sparkling
and glancing in the light. It contained a beverage that resembled chocolate, but whose flavor
could not have been surpassed by the fabled nectar of the gods.

CHAPTER III.

I have been thus explicit in detailing the circumstances of my entrance into the land of Mizora,
or, in other words, the interior of the earth, lest some incredulous person might doubt the
veracity of this narrative.

It does seem a little astonishing that a woman should have fallen by accident, and without
intention or desire, upon a discovery that explorers and scientists had for years searched
for in vain. But such was the fact, and, in generosity, I have endeavored to make my accident
as serviceable to the world in general, and Science in particular, as I could, by taking observations
of the country, its climate and products, and especially its people.

I met with the greatest difficulty in acquiring their language. Accustomed to the harsh dialect
of the North, my voice was almost intractable in obtaining their melodious accentuation. It
was, therefore, many months before I mastered the difficulty sufficiently to converse without
embarrassment, or to make myself clearly understood. The construction of their language was
simple and easily understood, and in a short time I was able to read it with ease, and to listen
to it with enjoyment. Yet, before this was accomplished, I had mingled among them for months,
listening to a musical jargon of conversation, that I could neither participate in, nor understand.
All that I could therefore discover about them during this time, was by observation. This soon
taught me that I was not in a seminary--in our acceptance of the term--but in a College of
Experimental Science. The ladies--girls I had supposed them to be--were, in fact, women and
mothers, and had reached an age that with us would be associated with decrepitude, wrinkles
and imbecility. They were all practical chemists, and their work was the preparation of food
from the elements. No wonder that they possessed the suppleness and bloom of eternal youth,
when the earthy matter and impurities that are ever present in our food, were unknown to theirs.

I also discovered that they obtained rain artificially when needed, by discharging vast quantities
of electricity in the air. I discovered that they kept no cattle, nor animals of any kind for
food or labor. I observed a universal practice of outdoor exercising; the aim seeming to be
to develop the greatest capacity of lung or muscle. It was astonishing the amount of air a
Mizora lady could draw into her lungs. They called it their brain stimulant, and said that
their faculties were more active after such exercise. In my country, a cup of strong coffee,
or some other agreeable beverage, is usually taken into the stomach to invigorate or excite
the mind.

One thing I remarked as unusual among a people of such cultured taste, and that was the size
of the ladies' waists. Of all that I measured not one was less than thirty inches in circumference,
and it was rare to meet with one that small. At first I thought a waist that tapered from the
arm pits would be an added beauty, if only these ladies would be taught how to acquire it.
But I lived long enough among them to look upon a tapering waist as a disgusting deformity.
They considered a large waist a mark of beauty, as it gave a greater capacity of lung power;
and they laid the greatest stress upon the size and health of the lungs. One little lady, not
above five feet in height, I saw draw into her lungs two hundred and twenty-five cubic inches
of air, and smile proudly when she accomplished it. I measured five feet and five inches in
height, and with the greatest effort I could not make my lungs receive more than two hundred
cubic inches of air. In my own country I had been called an unusually robust girl, and knew,
by comparison, that I had a much larger and fuller chest than the average among women.

I noticed with greater surprise than anything else had excited in me, the marked absence of
men. I wandered about the magnificent building without hindrance or surveillance. There was
not a lock or bolt on any door in it. I frequented a vast gallery filled with paintings and
statues of women, noble looking, beautiful women, but still--nothing but women. The fact that
they were all blondes, singular as it might appear, did not so much impress me. Strangers came
and went, but among the multitude of faces I met, I never saw a man's.

In my own country I had been accustomed to regard man as a vital necessity. He occupied all
governmental offices, and was the arbitrator of domestic life. It seemed, therefore, impossible
to me for a country or government to survive without his assistance and advice. Besides, it
was a country over which the heart of any man must yearn, however insensible he might be to
beauty or female loveliness. Wealth was everywhere and abundant. The climate as delightful
as the most fastidious could desire. The products of the orchards and gardens surpassed description.
Bread came from the laboratory, and not from the soil by the sweat of the brow. Toil was unknown;
the toil that we know, menial, degrading and harassing. Science had been the magician that
had done away all that. Science, so formidable and austere to our untutored minds, had been
gracious to these fair beings and opened the door to nature's most occult secrets. The beauty
of those women it is not in my power to describe. The Greeks, in their highest art, never rivalled
it, for here was a beauty of mind that no art can represent. They enhanced their physical charms
with attractive costumes, often of extreme elegance. They wore gems that flashed a fortune
as they passed. The rarest was of a pale rose color, translucent as the clearest water, and
of a brilliancy exceeding the finest diamond. Their voices, in song, could only be equaled
by a celestial choir. No dryad queen ever floated through the leafy aisles of her forest with
more grace than they displayed in every movement. And all this was for feminine eyes alone--and
they of the most enchanting loveliness.

Among all the women that I met during my stay in Mizora--comprising a period of fifteen years--I
saw not one homely face or ungraceful form. In my own land the voice of flattery had whispered
in my ear praises of face and figure, but I felt ill-formed and uncouth beside the perfect
symmetry and grace of these lovely beings. Their chief beauty appeared in a mobility of expression.
It was the divine fire of Thought that illumined every feature, which, while gazing upon the
Aphrodite of Praxitiles, we must think was all that the matchless marble lacked. Emotion passed
over their features like ripples over a stream. Their eyes were limpid wells of loveliness,
where every impulse of their natures were betrayed without reserve.

"It would be a paradise for man."

I made this observation to myself, and as secretly would I propound the question:

"Why is he not here in lordly possession?"

In my world man was regarded, or he had made himself regarded, as a superior being. He had
constituted himself the Government, the Law, Judge, Jury and Executioner. He doled out reward
or punishment as his conscience or judgment dictated. He was active and belligerent always
in obtaining and keeping every good thing for himself. He was indispensable. Yet here was a
nation of fair, exceedingly fair women doing without him, and practising the arts and sciences
far beyond the imagined pale of human knowledge and skill.

Of their progress in science I will give some accounts hereafter.

It is impossible to describe the feeling that took possession of me as months rolled by, and
I saw the active employments of a prosperous people move smoothly and quietly along in the
absence of masculine intelligence and wisdom. Cut off from all inquiry by my ignorance of their
language, the singular absence of the male sex began to prey upon my imagination as a mystery.
The more so after visiting a town at some distance, composed exclusively of schools and colleges
for the youth of the country. Here I saw hundreds of children--and all of them were girls.
Is it to be wondered at that the first inquiry I made, was:

"Where are the men?"

CHAPTER IV.

To facilitate my progress in the language of Mizora I was sent to their National College. It
was the greatest favor they could have conferred upon me, as it opened to me a wide field of
knowledge. Their educational system was a peculiar one, and, as it was the chief interest of
the country. I shall describe it before proceeding farther with this narrative.

All institutions for instruction were public, as were, also, the books and other accessories.
The State was the beneficent mother who furnished everything, and required of her children
only their time and application. Each pupil was compelled to attain a certain degree of excellence
that I thought unreasonably high, after which she selected the science or vocation she felt
most competent to master, and to that she then devoted herself.

The salaries of teachers were larger than those of any other public position. The Principal
of the National College had an income that exceeded any royal one I had ever heard of; but,
as education was the paramount interest of Mizora, I was not surprised at it. Their desire
was to secure the finest talent for educational purposes, and as the highest honors and emoluments
belonged to such a position, it could not be otherwise. To be a teacher in Mizora was to be
a person of consequence. They were its aristocracy.

Every State had a free college provided for out of the State funds. In these colleges every
department of Science, Art, or Mechanics was furnished with all the facilities for thorough
instruction. All the expenses of a pupil, including board, clothing, and the necessary traveling
fares, were defrayed by the State. I may here remark that all railroads are owned and controlled
by the General Government. The rates of transportation were fixed by law, and were uniform
throughout the country.

The National College which I entered belonged to the General Government. Here was taught the
highest attainments in the arts and sciences, and all industries practised in Mizora. It contained
the very cream of learning. There the scientist, the philosopher and inventor found the means
and appliances for study and investigation. There the artist and sculptor had their finest
work, and often their studios. The principals and subordinate teachers and assistants were
elected by popular vote. The State Colleges were free to those of another State who might desire
to enter them, for Mizora was like one vast family. It was regarded as the duty of every citizen
to lend all the aid and encouragement in her power to further the enlightenment of others,
wisely knowing the benefits of such would accrue to her own and the general good. The National
College was open to all applicants, irrespective of age, the only requirements being a previous
training to enter upon so high a plane of mental culture. Every allurement was held out to
the people to come and drink at the public fountain where the cup was inviting and the waters
sweet. "For," said one of the leading instructors to me, "education is the foundation of our
moral elevation, our government, our happiness. Let us relax our efforts, or curtail the means
and inducements to become educated, and we relax into ignorance, and end in demoralization.
We know the value of free education. It is frequently the case that the greatest minds are
of slow development, and manifest in the primary schools no marked ability. They often leave
the schools unnoticed; and when time has awakened them to their mental needs, all they have
to do is to apply to the college, pass an examination, and be admitted. If not prepared to
enter the college, they could again attend the common schools. We realize in its broadest sense
the ennobling influence of universal education. The higher the culture of a people, the more
secure is their government and happiness. A prosperous people is always an educated one; and
the freer the education, the wealthier they become."

The Preceptress of the National College was the leading scientist of the country. Her position
was more exalted than any that wealth could have given her. In fact, while wealth had acknowledged
advantages, it held a subordinate place in the estimation of the people. I never heard the
expression "very wealthy," used as a recommendation of a person. It was always: "She is a fine
scholar, or mechanic, or artist, or musician. She excels in landscape gardening, or domestic
work. She is a first-class chemist." But never "She is rich."

The idea of a Government assuming the responsibility of education, like a parent securing the
interest of its children, was all so new to me; and yet, I confessed to myself, the system
might prove beneficial to other countries than Mizora. In that world, from whence I had so
mysteriously emigrated, education was the privilege only of the rich. And in no country, however
enlightened, was there a system of education that would reach all. Charitable institutions
were restricted, and benefited only a few. My heart beat with enthusiasm when I thought of
the mission before me. And then I reflected that the philosophers of my world were but as children
in progress compared to these. Still traveling in grooves that had been worn and fixed for
posterity by bygone ages of ignorance and narrow-mindedness, it would require courage and resolution,
and more eloquence than I possessed, to persuade them out of these trodden paths. To be considered
the privileged class was an active characteristic of human nature. Wealth, and the powerful
grip upon the people which the organizations of society and governments gave, made it hereditary.
Yet in this country, nothing was hereditary but the prosperity and happiness of the whole people.

It was not a surprise to me that astronomy was an unknown science in Mizora, as neither sun,
moon, nor stars were visible there. "The moon's pale beams" never afford material for a blank
line in poetry; neither do scientific discussions rage on the formation of Saturn's rings,
or the spots on the sun. They knew they occupied a hollow sphere, bounded North and South by
impassible oceans. Light was a property of the atmosphere. A circle of burning mist shot forth
long streamers of light from the North, and a similar phenomena occurred in the South.

The recitation of my geography lesson would have astonished a pupil from the outer world. They
taught that a powerful current of electricity existed in the upper regions of the atmosphere.
It was the origin of their atmospheric heat and light, and their change of seasons. The latter
appeared to me to coincide with those of the Arctic zone, in one particular. The light of the
sun during the Arctic summer is reflected by the atmosphere, and produces that mellow, golden,
rapturous light that hangs like a veil of enchantment over the land of Mizora for six months
in the year. It was followed by six months of the shifting iridescence of the Aurora Borealis.

As the display of the Aurora Borealis originated, and was most brilliant at what appeared to
me to be the terminus of the pole, I believed it was caused by the meeting at that point of
the two great electric currents of the earth, the one on its surface, and the one known to
the inhabitants of Mizora. The heat produced by the meeting of two such powerful currents of
electricity is, undoubtedly, the cause of the open Polar Sea. As the point of meeting is below
the vision of the inhabitants of the Arctic regions, they see only the reflection of the Aurora.
Its gorgeous, brilliant, indescribable splendor is known only to the inhabitants of Mizora.

At the National College, where it is taught as a regular science, I witnessed the chemical
production of bread and a preparation resembling meat. Agriculture in this wonderful land,
was a lost art. No one that I questioned had any knowledge of it. It had vanished in the dim
past of their barbarism. With the exception of vegetables and fruit, which were raised in luscious
perfection, their food came from the elements. A famine among such enlightened people was impossible,
and scarcity was unknown. Food for the body and food for the mind were without price. It was
owing to this that poverty was unknown to them, as well as disease. The absolute purity of
all that they ate preserved an activity of vital power long exceeding our span of life. The
length of their year, measured by the two seasons, was the same as ours, but the women who
had marked a hundred of them in their lifetime, looked younger and fresher, and were more supple
of limb than myself, yet I had barely passed my twenty-second year.

I wrote out a careful description of the processes by which they converted food out of the
valueless elements--valueless because of their abundance--and put it carefully away for use
in my own country. There drouth, or excessive rainfalls, produced scarcity, and sometimes famine.
The struggle of the poor was for food, to the exclusion of all other interests. Many of them
knew not what proper and health-giving nourishment was. But here in Mizora, the daintiest morsels
came from the chemists laboratory, cheap as the earth under her feet.

I now began to enjoy the advantages of conversation, which added greatly to my happiness and
acquirements. I formed an intimate companionship with the daughter of the Preceptress of the
National College, and to her was addressed the questions I asked about things that impressed
me. She was one of the most beautiful beings that it had been my lot to behold. Her eyes were
dark, almost the purplish blue of a pansy, and her hair had a darker tinge than is common in
Mizora, as if it had stolen the golden edge of a ripe chestnut. Her beauty was a constant charm
to me.

The National College contained a large and well filled gallery. Its pictures and statuary were
varied, not confined to historical portraits and busts as was the one at the College of Experimental
Science. Yet it possessed a number of portraits of women exclusively of the blonde type. Many
of them were ideal in loveliness. This gallery also contained the masterpieces of their most
celebrated sculptors. They were all studies of the female form. I am a connoisseur in art,
and nothing that I had ever seen before could compare with these matchless marbles, bewitching
in every delicate contour, alluring in softness, but grand and majestic in pose and expression.

But I haunted this gallery for other reasons than its artistic attractions. I was searching
for the portrait of a man, or something suggesting his presence. I searched in vain. Many of
the paintings were on a peculiar transparent substance that gave to the subject a startlingly
vivid effect. I afterward learned that they were imperishable, the material being a translucent
adamant of their own manufacture. After a picture was painted upon it, another piece of adamant
was cemented over it.

Each day, as my acquaintance with the peculiar institutions and character of the inhabitants
of Mizora increased, my perplexity and a certain air of mystery about them increased with it.
It was impossible for me not to feel for them a high degree of respect, admiration, and affection.
They were ever gentle, tender, and kind to solicitude. To accuse them of mystery were a paradox;
and yet they were a mystery. In conversation, manners and habits, they were frank to singularity.
It was just as common an occurrence for a poem to be read and commented on by its author, as
to hear it done by another. I have heard a poetess call attention to the beauties of her own
production, and receive praise or adverse criticism with the same charming urbanity.

Ambition of the most intense earnestness was a natural characteristic, but was guided by a
stern and inflexible justice. Envy and malice were unknown to them. It was, doubtless, owing
to their elevated moral character that courts and legal proceedings had become unnecessary.
If a discussion arose between parties involving a question of law, they repaired to the Public
Library, where the statute books were kept, and looked up the matter themselves, and settled
it as the law directed. Should they fail to interpret the law alike, a third party was selected
as referee, but accepted no pay.

Indolence was as much a disgrace to them as is the lack of virtue to the women of my country,
hence every citizen, no matter how wealthy, had some regular trade, business or profession.
I found those occupations we are accustomed to see accepted by the people of inferior birth
and breeding, were there filled by women of the highest social rank, refined in manner and
frequently of notable intellectual acquirements. It grew, or was the result of the custom of
selecting whatever vocation they felt themselves competent to most worthily fill, and as no
social favor or ignominy rested on any kind of labor, the whole community of Mizora was one
immense family of sisters who knew no distinction of birth or position among themselves.

There were no paupers and no charities, either public or private, to be found in the country.
The absence of poverty such as I knew existed in all civilized nations upon the face of the
earth, was largely owing to the cheapness of food. But there was one other consideration that
bore vitally upon it. The dignity and necessity of labor was early and diligently impressed
upon the mind. The Preceptress said to me:

"Mizora is a land of industry. Nature has taught us the duty of work. Had some of us been born
with minds fully matured, or did knowledge come to some as old age comes to all, we might think
that a portion was intended to live without effort. But we are all born equal, and labor is
assigned to all; and the one who seeks labor is wiser than the one who lets labor seek her."

Citizens, I learned, were not restrained from accumulating vast wealth had they the desire
and ability to do so, but custom imposed upon them the most honorable processes. If a citizen
should be found guilty of questionable business transactions, she suffered banishment to a
lonely island and the confiscation of her entire estate, both hereditary and acquired. The
property confiscated went to the public schools in the town or city where she resided; but
never was permitted to augment salaries. I discovered this in the statute books, but not in
the memory of any one living had it been found necessary to inflict such a punishment.

"Our laws," said Wauna, "are simply established legal advice. No law can be so constructed
as to fit every case so exactly that a criminal mind could not warp it into a dishonest use.
But in a country like ours, where civilization has reached that state of enlightenment that
needs no laws, we are simply guided by custom."

The love of splendor and ornament was a pronounced characteristic of these strange people.
But where gorgeous colors were used, they were always of rich quality. The humblest homes were
exquisitely ornamented, and often displayed a luxury that, with us, would have been considered
an evidence of wealth.

They took the greatest delight in their beauty, and were exceedingly careful of it. A lovely
face and delicate complexion, they averred, added to one's refinement. The art of applying
an artificial bloom and fairness to the skin, which I had often seen practiced in my own country,
appeared to be unknown to them. But everything savoring of deception was universally condemned.
They made no concealment of the practice they resorted to for preserving their complexions,
and so universal and effectual were they, that women who, I was informed, had passed the age
allotted to the grandmothers in my country, had the smooth brow and pink bloom of cheek that
belongs to a more youthful period of life. There was, however, a distinction between youth
and old age. The hair was permitted to whiten, but the delicate complexion of old age, with
its exquisite coloring, excited in my mind as much admiration as astonishment.

I cannot explain why I hesitated to press my first inquiry as to where the men were. I had
put the question to Wauna one day, but she professed never to have heard of such beings. It
silenced me--for a time.

"Perhaps it is some extinct animal," she added, naively. "We have so many new things to study
and investigate, that we pay but little attention to ancient history."

I bided my time and put the query in another form.

"Where is your other parent?"

She regarded me with innocent surprise. "You talk strangely. I have but one parent. How could
I have any more?"

"You ought to have two."

She laughed merrily. "You have a queer way of jesting. I have but one mother, one adorable
mother. How could I have two?" and she laughed again.

I saw that there was some mystery I could not unravel at present, and fearing to involve myself
in some trouble, refrained from further questioning on the subject. I nevertheless kept a close
observance of all that passed, and seized every opportunity to investigate a mystery that began
to harass me with its strangeness.

Soon after my conversation with Wauna, I attended an entertainment at which a great number
of guests were present. It was a literary festival and, after the intellectual delicacies were
disposed of, a banquet followed of more than royal munificence. Toasts were drank, succeeded
by music and dancing and all the gayeties of a festive occasion, yet none but the fairest of
fair women graced the scene. Is it strange, therefore, that I should have regarded with increasing
astonishment and uneasiness a country in all respects alluring to the desires of man--yet found
him not there in lordly possession?

Beauty and intellect, wealth and industry, splendor and careful economy, natures lofty and
generous, gentle and loving--why has not Man claimed this for himself?

CHAPTER V.

The Preceptress of the National College appointed her daughter Wanna as a guide and instructor
to me. I formed a deep and strong attachment for her, which, it pains me to remember, was the
cause of her unhappy fate. In stature she was above the medium height, with a form of the fairest
earthly loveliness and exquisite grace. Her eyes were so deep a blue, that at first I mistook
them for brown. Her hair was the color of a ripe chestnut frosted with gold, and in length
and abundance would cover her like a garment. She was vivacious and fond of athletic sports.
Her strength amazed me. Those beautiful hands, with their tapering fingers, had a grip like
a vise. They had discovered, in this wonderful land, that a body possessing perfectly developed
muscles must, by the laws of nature, be symmetrical and graceful. They rode a great deal on
small, two-wheeled vehicles, which they propelled themselves. They gave me one on which I accompanied
Wauna to all of the places of interest in the Capital city and vicinity.

I must mention that Wauna's voice was exceedingly musical, even in that land of sweet voices,
but she did not excel as a singer.

The infant schools interested me more than all the magnificence and grandeur of the college
buildings. The quaint courtesy, gentle manners and affectionate demeanor of the little ones
toward one another, was a surprise to me. I had visited infant schools of my own and other
countries, where I had witnessed the display of human nature, unrestrained by mature discretion
and policy. Fights, quarrels, kicks, screams, the unlawful seizure of toys and trinkets, and
other misdemeanors, were generally the principal exhibits. But here it was all different. I
thought, as I looked at them, that should a philanthropist from the outside world have chanced
unknowingly upon the playground of a Mizora infant school, he would have believed himself in
a company of little angels.

At first, a kindness so universal impressed me as studied; a species of refined courtesy in
which the children were drilled. But time and observation proved to me that it was the natural
impulse of the heart, an inherited trait of moral culture. In my world, kindness and affection
were family possessions, extended occasionally to acquaintances. Beyond this was courtesy only
for the great busy bustling mass of humanity called--"the world."

It must not be understood that there was no variety of character in Mizora. Just as marked
a difference was to be found there as elsewhere; but it was elevated and ennobled. Its evil
tendencies had been eliminated. There were many causes that had made this possible. The first,
and probably the most influential, was the extreme cheapness of living. Food and fuel were
items of so small consequence, that poverty had become unknown. Added to this, and to me by
far the most vital reason, was their system of free education. In contemplating the state of
enlightenment to which Mizora had attained, I became an enthusiast upon the subject of education,
and resolved, should I ever again reach the upper world, to devote all my energies and ability
to convincing the governments of its importance. I believe it is the duty of every government
to make its schools and colleges, and everything appertaining to education--FREE. To be always
starved for knowledge is a more pitiful craving than to hunger for bread. One dwarfs the body;
the other the mind.

The utmost care was bestowed upon the training and education of the children. There was nothing
that I met with in that beautiful and happy country I longed more to bring with me to the inhabitants
of my world, than their manner of rearing children. The most scrupulous attention was paid
to their diet and exercise, both mental and physical. The result was plump limbs, healthy,
happy faces and joyous spirits. In all the fifteen years that I spent in Mizora, I never saw
a tear of sorrow fall from children's eyes. Admirable sanitary regulations exist in all the
cities and villages of the land, which insures them pure air. I may state here that every private-house
looks as carefully to the condition of its atmosphere, as we do to the material neatness of ours.

The only intense feeling that I could discover among these people was the love between parent
and child. I visited the theater where the tragedy of the play was the destruction of a daughter
by shipwreck in view of the distracted mother. The scenery was managed with wonderful realism.
The thunder of the surf as it beat upon the shore, the frightful carnival of wind and waves
that no human power could still, and the agony of the mother watching the vessel break to pieces
upon the rock and her child sink into the boiling water to rise no more, was thrilling beyond
my power to describe. I lost control of my feelings. The audience wept and applauded; and when
the curtain fell, I could scarcely believe it had only been a play. The love of Mizora women
for their children is strong and deep. They consider the care of them a sacred duty, fraught
with the noblest results of life. A daughter of scholarly attainments and noble character is
a credit to her mother. That selfish mother who looks upon her children as so many afflictions
is unknown to Mizora. If a mother should ever feel her children as burdens upon her, she would
never give it expression, as any dereliction of duty would be severely rebuked by the whole
community, if not punished by banishment. Corporal punishment was unknown.

I received an invitation from a lady prominent in literature and science to make her a visit.
I accepted with gratification, as it would afford me the opportunity I coveted to become acquainted
with the domestic life of Mizora, and perhaps penetrate its greatest mystery, for I must confess
that the singular dearth of anything and everything resembling Man, never ceased to prey upon
my curiosity.

The lady was the editor and proprietor of the largest and most widely known scientific and
literary magazine in the country. She was the mother of eight children, and possessed one of
the largest fortunes and most magnificent residences in the country.

The house stood on an elevation, and was a magnificent structure of grey granite, with polished
cornices. The porch floors were of clouded marble. The pillars supporting its roof were round
shafts of the same material, with vines of ivy, grape and rose winding about them, carved and
colored into perfect representations of the natural shrubs.

The drawing-room, which was vast and imposing in size and appearance, had a floor of pure white
marble. The mantels and window-sills were of white onyx, with delicate vinings of pink and
green. The floor was strewn with richly colored mats and rugs. Luxurious sofas and chairs comprised
the only furniture. Each corner contained a piece of fine statuary. From the centre of the
ceiling depended a large gold basin of beautiful design and workmanship, in which played a
miniature fountain of perfumed water that filled the air with a delicate fragrance. The walls
were divided into panels of polished and unpolished granite. On the unpolished panels hung
paintings of scenery. The dull, gray color of the walls brought out in sharp and tasteful relief
the few costly and elegant adornments of the room: a placid landscape with mountains dimly
outlining the distance. A water scene with a boat idly drifting, occupied by a solitary figure
watching the play of variegated lights upon the tranquil waters. Then came a wild and rugged
mountain scene with precipices and a foaming torrent. Then a concert of birds amusingly treated.

The onyx marble mantel-piece contained but a single ornament--an orchestra. A coral vase contained
a large and perfect tiger lily, made of gold. Each stamen supported a tiny figure carved out
of ivory, holding a musical instrument. When they played, each figure appeared instinct with
life, like the mythical fairies of my childhood; and the music was so sweet, yet faint, that
I readily imagined the charmed ring and tiny dancers keeping time to its rhythm.

The drawing-room presented a vista of arches draped in curtains of a rare texture, though I
afterward learned they were spun glass. The one that draped the entrance to the conservatory
looked like sea foam with the faint blush of day shining through it. The conservatory was in
the shape of a half sphere, and entirely of glass. From its dome, more than a hundred feet
above our heads, hung a globe of white fire that gave forth a soft clear light. Terminating,
as it did, the long vista of arches with their transparent hangings of cobweb texture, it presented
a picture of magnificence and beauty indescribably.

The other apartments displayed the same taste and luxury. The sitting-room contained an instrument
resembling a grand piano.

The grounds surrounding this elegant home were adorned with natural and artificial beauties,
Grottoes, fountains, lakes, cascades, terraces of flowers, statuary, arbors and foliage in
endless variety, that rendered it a miniature paradise. In these grounds, darting in and out
among the avenues, playing hide-and-seek behind the statuary, or otherwise amusing themselves,
I met eight lovely children, ranging from infancy to young maidenhood. The glowing cheeks and
eyes, and supple limbs spoke of perfect health and happiness. When they saw their mother coming,
they ran to meet her, the oldest carrying the two-year old baby. The stately woman greeted
each with a loving kiss. She showed in loving glance and action how dear they all were to her.
For the time being she unbent, and became a child herself in the interest she took in their
prattle and mirth. A true mother and happy children.

I discovered that each department of this handsome home was under the care of a professional
artist. I remarked to my hostess that I had supposed her home was the expression of her own taste.

"So it is," she replied; "but it requires an equally well educated taste to carry out my designs.
The arrangement and ornamentation of my grounds were suggested by me, and planned and executed
by my landscape artist."

After supper we repaired to the general sitting-room. The eldest daughter had been deeply absorbed
in a book before we came in. She closed and left it upon a table. I watched for an opportunity
to carelessly pick it up and examine it. It was a novel I felt sure, for she appeared to resign
it reluctantly out of courtesy to her guest. I might, from it, gather some clue to the mystery
of the male sex. I took up the book and opened it. It was The Conservation of Force and The
Phenomena of Nature. I laid it down with a sigh of discomfiture.

The next evening, my hostess gave a small entertainment, and what was my amazement, not to
say offense, to perceive the cook, the chamber-maid, and in fact all the servants in the establishment,
enter and join in the conversation and amusement. The cook was asked to sing, for, with the
exception of myself--and I tried to conceal it--no one appeared to take umbrage at her presence.
She sat down to the piano and sang a pretty ballad in a charming manner. Her voice was cultivated
and musical, as are all the voices in Mizora, but it was lacking in the qualities that make
a great singer, yet it had a plaintive sweetness that was very attractive.

I was dumbfounded at her presumption. In my country such a thing is unknown as a servant entertaining
guests in such a capacity, and especially among people of my rank and position in the world.

I repelled some advances she made me with a hauteur and coldness that it mortified me afterward
to remember. Instead of being my inferior, I was her's, and she knew it; but neither by look,
tone nor action did she betray her consciousness of it. I had to acknowledge that her hands
were more delicately modeled than mine, and her bearing had a dignity and elegance that might
have been envied by the most aristocratic dame of my own land. Knowing that the Mizora people
were peculiar in their social ideas, I essayed to repress my indignation at the time, but later
I unburdened myself to Wauna who, with her usual sweetness and gentleness, explained to me
that her occupation was a mere matter of choice with her.

"She is one of the most distinguished chemists of this nation. She solved the problem of making
bread out of limestone of a much finer quality than had been in use before."

"Don't tell me that you gave me a stone when I asked for bread!" I exclaimed.

"We have not done that," replied Wauna; "but we have given you what you took for bread, but
which is manufactured out of limestone and the refuse of the marble quarries."

I looked at her in such inane astonishment that she hastened to add:

"I will take you to one of the large factories some day. They are always in the mountains where
the stone is abundant. You can there see loaves by the thousands packed in great glass tanks
for shipment to the different markets. And they do not cost the manufacturer above one centime
per hundred."

"And what royalty does the discoverer get for this wonder of chemistry?"

"None. Whenever anything of that kind is discovered in our country, it is purchased outright
by the government, and then made public for the benefit of all. The competition among manufacturers
consists in the care and exactness with which they combine the necessary elements. There is
quite a difference in the taste and quality of our bread as it comes from different factories."

"Why doesn't such a talented person quit working in another woman's kitchen and keep herself
like a lady?" I inquired, all the prejudice of indolent wealth against labor coming up in my
thoughts.

"She has a taste for that kind of work," replied Wauna, "instead of for making dresses, or
carving gems, or painting. She often says she could not make a straight line if she tried,
yet she can put together with such nicety and chemical skill the elements that form an omelette
or a custard, that she has become famous. She teaches all who desire to learn, but none seem
to equal her. She was born with a genius for cooking and nothing else. Haven't you seen her
with a long glass tube testing the vessels of vegetables and fruit that were cooking?"

"Yes," I answered. "It was from that that I supposed her occupation menial."

"Visitors from other cities," continued Wauna, "nearly always inquire for her first."

Perceiving the mistake that I had made, I ventured an apology for my behavior toward her, and
Wauna replied, with a frankness that nearly crushed me:

"We all noticed it, but do not fear a retaliation," she added sweetly. "We know that you are
from a civilization that we look back upon as one of barbarism."

I acknowledged that if any superciliousness existed in Mizora while I was there, I must have
had it.

The guests departed without refreshments having been served. I explained the custom of entertainment
in my country, which elicited expressions of astonishment. It would be insulting to offer refreshments
of any kind to a guest between the regular hours for dining, as it would imply a desire on
your part to impair their health. Such was the explanation of what in my country would be deemed
a gross neglect of duty. Their custom was probably the result of two causes: an enlightened
knowledge of the laws of health, and the extreme cheapness of all luxuries of the table which
the skill of the chemist had made available to every class of people in the land.

The word "servant" did not exist in the language of Mizora; neither had they an equivalent
for it in the sense in which we understand and use the word. I could not tell a servant--for
I must use the word to be understood--from a professor in the National College. They were all
highly-educated, refined, lady-like and lovely. Their occupations were always matters of choice,
for, as there was nothing in them to detract from their social position, they selected the
one they knew they had the ability to fill. Hence those positions we are accustomed to regard
as menial, were there filled by ladies of the highest culture and refinement; consequently
the domestic duties of a Mizora household moved to their accomplishment with the ease and regularity
of fine machinery.

It was long before I could comprehend the dignity they attached to the humblest vocations.
They had one proverb that embraced it all: "Labor is the necessity of life." I studied this
peculiar phase of Mizora life, and at last comprehended that in this very law of social equality
lay the foundation of their superiority. Their admirable system of adapting the mind to the
vocation in which it was most capable of excelling, and endowing that with dignity and respect,
and, at the same time, compelling the highest mental culture possible, had produced a nation
in the enjoyment of universal refinement, and a higher order of intelligence than any yet known
to the outside world.

The standard of an ordinary education was to me astonishingly high. The reason for it was easily
understood when informed that the only aristocracy of the country was that of intellect. Scholars,
artists, scientists, literateurs, all those excelling in intellectual gifts or attainments,
were alone regarded as superiors by the masses.

In all the houses that I had visited I had never seen a portrait hung in a room thrown open
to visitors. On inquiry, I was informed that it was a lack of taste to make a portrait conspicuous.

"You meet faces at all times," said my informant, "but you cannot at all times have a variety
of scenery before you. How monotonous it would be with a drawing-room full of women, and the
walls filled with their painted representatives. We never do it."

"Then where do you keep your family portraits?"

"Ours is in a gallery upstairs."

I requested to be shown this, and was conducted to a very long apartment on the third floor,
devoted exclusively to relics and portraits of family ancestry. There were over three thousand
portraits of blond women, which my hostess' daughter informed me represented her grandmothers
for ages back. Not one word did she say about her grandfathers.

I may mention here that no word existed in their dictionaries that was equivalent to the word
"man." I had made myself acquainted with this fact as soon as I had acquired sufficient knowledge
of their language. My astonishment at it cannot be described. It was a mystery that became
more and more perplexing. Never in the closest intimacy that I could secure could I obtain
the slightest clue, the least suggestion relating to the presence of man. My friend's infant,
scarcely two years old, prattled of everything but a father.

I cannot explain a certain impressive dignity about the women of Mizora that, in spite of their
amiability and winning gentleness, forbade a close questioning into private affairs. My hostess
never spoke of her business. It would have been a breach of etiquette to have questioned her
about it. I could not bring myself to intrude the question of the marked absence of men, when
not the slightest allusion was ever made to them by any citizen.

So time passed on, confirming my high opinion of them, and yet I knew and felt and believed
that some strange and incomprehensible mystery surrounded them, and when I had abandoned all
hope of a solution to it, it solved itself in the most unexpected and yet natural manner, and
I was more astonished at the solution than I was at the mystery.

CHAPTER VI.

Their domestic life was so harmonious and perfect that it was a perpetual pleasure to contemplate.

Human nature finds its sweetest pleasure, its happiest content, within its own home circle;
and in Mizora I found no exception to the rule. The arrangement and adornment of every house
in Mizora were evidently for the comfort and happiness of its inmates. To purchase anything
for merely outside show, or to excite the envy or jealousy of a neighbor, was never thought
of by an inhabitant of Mizora.

The houses that were built to rent excited my admiration quite as much as did the private residences.
They all seemed to have been designed with two special objects in view--beauty and comfort.
Houses built to rent in large cities were always in the form of a hollow square, inclosing
a commodious and handsomely decorated park. The back was adorned with an upper and lower piazza
opening upon the park. The suites of rooms were so arranged as to exclusively separate their
occupants from all others. The park was undivided. The center was occupied by a fountain large
enough to shoot its spray as high as the uppermost piazza. The park was furnished with rustic
seats and shade trees, frequently of immense size, branched above its smooth walks and promenades,
where baby wagons, velocipedes and hobby horses on wheels could have uninterrupted sport.

Suburban residences, designed for rent, were on a similar but more amplified plan. The houses
were detached, but the grounds were in common. Many private residences were also constructed
on the same plan. Five or six acres would be purchased by a dozen families who were not rich
enough to own large places separately. A separate residence would be built for each family,
but the ground would be laid off and ornamented like a private park. Each of the dozen families
would thus have a beautiful view and the privilege of the whole ground. In this way, cascades,
fountains, rustic arbors, rockeries, aquariums, tiny lakes, and every variety of landscape
ornamenting, could be supplied at a comparatively small cost to each family.

Should any one wish to sell, they disposed of their house and one-twelfth of the undivided
ground, and a certain per cent. of the value of its ornaments. The established custom was never
to remove or alter property thus purchased without the consent of the other shareholders. Where
a people had been educated to regard justice and conscience as their law, such an arrangement
could be beneficial to an entire city.

Financial ability does not belong to every one, and this plan of uniting small capitals gave
opportunity to the less wealthy classes to enjoy all the luxuries that belong to the rich.
In fact some of the handsomest parks I saw in Mizora were owned and kept up in this manner.
Sometimes as many as twenty families united in the purchase of an estate, and constructed artificial
lakes large enough to sail upon. Artificial cascades and fountains of wonderful size and beauty
were common ornaments in all the private and public parks of the city. I noticed in all the
cities that I visited the beauty and charm of the public parks, which were found in all sections.

The walks were smoothly paved and shaded by trees of enormous size. They were always frequented
by children, who could romp and play in these sylvan retreats of beauty in perfect security.

The high state of culture arrived at by the Mizora people rendered a luxurious style of living
a necessity to all. Many things that I had been brought up to regard as the exclusive privileges
of the rich, were here the common pleasure of every one. There was no distinction of classes;
no genteel-poverty people, who denied themselves necessities that they might appear to have
luxuries. There was not a home in Mizora that I entered--and I had access to many--that did
not give the impression of wealth in all its appointments.

I asked the Preceptress to explain to me how I might carry back to the people of my country
this social happiness, this equality of physical comfort and luxury; and she answered me with
emphasis:

"Educate them. Convince the rich that by educating the poor, they are providing for their own
safety. They will have fewer prisons to build, fewer courts to sustain. Educated Labor will
work out its own salvation against Capital. Let the children of toil start in life with exactly
the same educational advantages that are enjoyed by the rich. Give them the same physical and
moral training, and let the rich pay for it by taxes."

I shook my head "They will never submit to it," was my reluctant admission.

"Appeal to their selfishness," urged the Preceptress "Get them to open their college doors
and ask all to come and be taught without money and without price. The power of capital is
great, but stinted and ignorant toil will rise against its oppression, and innocence and guilt
will alike suffer from its fury. Have you never known such an occurrence?"

"Not in my day or country," I answered "But the city in which I was educated has such a history.
Its gutters flowed with human blood, the blood of its nobles."

She inclined her head significantly. "It will be repeated," she said sadly, "unless you educate
them. Give their bright and active minds the power of knowledge. They will use it wisely, for
their own and their country's welfare."

I doubted my ability to do this, to contend against rooted and inherited prejudice, but I resolved
to try. I did not need to be told that the rich and powerful had a monopoly of intellect: Nature
was not partial to them, for the children of the poor, I well knew, were often handsomer and
more intellectual than the offspring of wealth and aristocratic birth.

I have before spoken of the positions occupied by those who performed what I had been bred
to regard as menial work. At first, the mere fact of the person who presided over the kitchen
being presented to me as an equal, was outraging to all my hereditary dignity and pride of
birth. No one could be more pronounced in a consciousness of inherited nobility than I. I had
been taught from infancy to regard myself as a superior being, merely because the accident
of birth had made me so, and the arrogance with which I had treated some of my less favored
schoolmates reverted to me with mortifying regret, when, having asked Wauna to point out to
me the nobly born, she looked at me with her sweet expression of candor and innocence and said:

"We have no nobility of birth. As I once before told you, intellect is our only standard of
excellence. It alone occupies an exalted place and receives the homage of our people."

In a subsequent conversation with her mother, the Preceptress, she said:

"In remote ages, great honor and deference was paid to all who were born of rulers, and the
designation 'noble blood,' was applied to them. At one time in the history of our country they
could commit any outrage upon society or morals without fear of punishment, simply because
they belonged to the aristocracy. Even a heinous murder would be unnoticed if perpetrated by
one of them. Nature alone did not favor them Imbecile and immoral minds fell to the lot of
the aristocrat as often as to the lowly born. Nature's laws are inflexible and swerve not for
any human wish. They outraged them by the admixture of kindred blood, and degeneracy was often
the result. A people should always have for their chief ruler the highest and noblest intellect
among them, but in those dark ages they were too often compelled to submit to the lowest, simply
because it had been born to the position. But," she added, with a sweet smile, "that time lies
many centuries behind us, and I sometimes think we had better forget it entirely."

My first meeting with the domestics of my friend's house impressed me with their high mental
culture, refinement and elegance. Certainly no "grande dame" of my own country but would have
been proud of their beauty and graceful dignity.

Prejudice, however deeply ingrained, could not resist the custom of a whole country, and especially
such a one as Mizora, so I soon found myself on a familiar footing with my friend's "artist"--for
the name by which they were designated as a class had very nearly the same meaning.

Cooking was an art, and one which the people of Mizora had cultivated to the highest excellence.
It is not strange, when their enlightenment is understood, that they should attach as much
honor to it as the people of my country do to sculpture, painting and literature. The Preceptress
told me that such would be the case with my people when education became universal and the
poor could start in life with the same intellectual culture as the rich. The chemistry of food
and its importance in preserving a youthful vigor and preventing disease, would then be understood
and appreciated by all classes, and would receive the deference it deserved.

"You will never realize," said the Preceptress earnestly, "the incalculable benefit that will
accrue to your people from educating your poor. Urge that Government to try it for just twenty
years, long enough for a generation to be born and mature. The bright and eager intellects
of poverty will turn to Chemistry to solve the problems of cheap Light, cheap Fuel and cheap
Food. When you can clothe yourselves from the fibre of the trees, and warm and light your dwellings
from the water of your rivers, and eat of the stones of the earth, Poverty and Disease will
be as unknown to your people as it is to mine."

"If I should preach that to them, they would call me a maniac."

"None but the ignorant will do so. From your description of the great thinkers of your country,
I am inclined to believe there are minds among you advanced enough to believe in it."

I remembered how steamboats and railroads and telegraphy had been opposed and ridiculed until
proven practicable, and I took courage and resolved to follow the advice of my wise counselor.

I had long felt a curiosity to behold the inner workings of a domestic's life, and one day
ventured to ask my friend's permission to enter her kitchen. Surprise was manifested at such
a request, when I began to apologize and explain. But my hostess smiled and said:

"My kitchen is at all times as free to my guests as my drawing room."

Every kitchen in Mizora is on the same plan and conducted the same way. To describe one, therefore,
is to describe all. I undertook to explain that in my country, good breeding forbade a guest
entering the host's kitchen, and frequently its appearance, and that of the cook's, would not
conduce to gastric enjoyment of the edibles prepared in it.

My first visit happened to be on scrubbing day, and I was greatly amused to see a little machine,
with brushes and sponges attached, going over the floor at a swift rate, scouring and sponging
dry as it went. Two vessels, one containing soap suds and the other clear water, were connected
by small feed pipes with the brushes. As soon as the drying sponge became saturated, it was
lifted by an ingenious yet simple contrivance into a vessel and pressed dry, and was again
dropped to the floor.

I inquired how it was turned to reverse its progress so as to clean the whole floor, and was
told to watch when it struck the wall. I did so, and saw that the jar not only reversed the
machine, but caused it to spring to the right about two feet, which was its width, and again
begin work on a new line, to be again reversed in the same manner when it struck the opposite
wall. Carpeted floors were swept by a similar contrivance.

No wonder the "artists" of the kitchen had such a dainty appearance. They dipped their pretty
hands in perfumed water and dried them on the finest and whitest damask, while machinery did
the coarse work.

Mizora, I discovered, was a land of brain workers. In every vocation of life machinery was
called upon to perform the arduous physical labor. The whole domestic department was a marvel
of ingenious mechanical contrivances. Dishwashing, scouring and cleaning of every description
were done by machinery.

The Preceptress told me that it was the result of enlightenment, and it would become the custom
in my country to make machinery perform the laborious work when they learned the value of universal
and advanced knowledge.

I observed that the most exact care was given to the preparation of food. Every cook was required
to be a chemist of the highest excellence; another thing that struck me as radically different
from the custom in vogue in my country.

Everything was cooked by hot air and under cover, so that no odor was perceptible in the room.
Ventilating pipes conveyed the steam from cooking food out of doors. Vegetables and fruits
appeared to acquire a richer flavor when thus cooked. The seasoning was done by exact weight
and measure, and there was no stirring or tasting. A glass tube, on the principle of a thermometer,
determined when each article was done. The perfection which they had attained as culinary chemists
was a source of much gratification to me, both in the taste of food so delicious and palatable,
and in its wholesome effect on my constitution. As to its deliciousness, a meal prepared by
a Mizora cook could rival the fabled feasts of the gods. Its beneficial effects upon me were
manifested in a healthier tone of body and an an increase of animal spirits, a pleasurable
feeling of content and amiability.

The Preceptress told me that the first step toward the eradication of disease was in the scientific
preparation of food, and the establishment of schools where cooking was taught as an art to
all who applied, and without charge. Placed upon a scientific basis it became respectable.

"To eliminate from our food the deleterious earthy matter is our constant aim. To that alone
do we owe immunity from old age far in advance of that period of life when your people become
decrepit and senile. The human body is like a lamp-wick, which filters the oil while it furnishes
light. In time the wick becomes clogged and useless and is thrown away. If the oil could be
made perfectly pure, the wick would not fill up."

She gave this homely explanation with a smile and the air of a grown person trying to convey
to the immature mind of a child an explanation of some of Nature's phenomena.

I reflected upon their social condition and arrived at the conviction that there is no occupation
in life but what has its usefulness and necessity, and, when united to culture and refinement,
its dignity. A tree has a million leaves, yet each individual leaf, insignificant as it may
appear, has its special share of work to perform in helping the tree to live and perfect its
fruit. So should every citizen of a government contribute to its vitality and receive a share
of its benefits.

"Will the time ever come," I asked myself, "when my own country will see this and rise to a
social, if not intellectual equality." And the admonition of the Preceptress would recur to
my mind:

"Educate them. Educate them, and enlightenment will solve for them every problem in Sociology."

My observations in Mizora led me to believe that while Nature will permit and encourage the
outgrowth of equality in refinement, she gives birth to a more decided prominence in the leadership
of intellect.

The lady who conducted me through the culinary department, and pointed out the machinery and
explained its use and convenience, had the same grace and dignity of manner as the hostess
displayed when exhibiting to me the rare plants in her conservatory.

The laundry was a separate business. No one unconnected with it as a profession had anything
to do with its duties. I visited several of the large city laundries and was informed that
all were conducted alike. Steam was employed in the cleaning process, and the drying was done
by hot air impregnated with ozone. This removed from white fabrics every vestige of discoloration
or stain. I saw twelve dozen fine damask table-cloths cleaned, dried and ironed in thirty minutes.
All done by machinery. They emerged from the rollers that ironed them looking like new pieces
of goods, so pure was their color, and so glossy their finish.

I inquired the price for doing them up, and was told a cent a piece. Twelve cents per dozen
was the established price for doing up clothes. Table-cloths and similar articles were ironed
between rollers constructed to admit their full width. Other articles of more complicated make,
were ironed by machines constructed to suit them. Some articles were dressed by having hot
air forced rapidly through them. Lace curtains, shawls, veils, spreads, tidies and all similar
articles, were by this process made to look like new, and at a cost that I thought ought certainly
to reduce the establishment to beggary or insolvency. But here chemistry again was the magician
that had made such cheap labor profitable. And such advanced knowledge of chemistry was the
result of universal education.

Ladies sent their finest laces to be renewed without fear of having them reduced to shreds.
In doing up the frailest laces, nothing but hot air impregnated with ozone was employed. These
were consecutively forced through the fabric after it was carefully stretched. Nothing was
ever lost or torn, so methodical was the management of the work.

I asked why cooking was not established as the laundry was, as a distinct public business,
and was told that it had been tried a number of times, but had always been found impracticable.
One kind of work in a laundry would suit everyone, but one course of cooking could not. Tastes
and appetites differed greatly. What was palatable to one would be disliked by another, and
to prepare food for a large number of customers, without knowing or being able to know exactly
what the demand would be, had always resulted in large waste, and as the people of Mizora were
the most rigid and exacting economists, it was not to be wondered at that they had selected
the most economical plan. Every private cook could determine accurately the amount of food
required for the household she prepared it for, and knowing their tastes she could cater to
all without waste.

"We, as yet," said my distinguished instructor, "derive all our fruit and vegetables from the
soil. We have orchards and vineyards and gardens which we carefully tend, and which our knowledge
of chemistry enables us to keep in health and productiveness. But there is always more or less
earthy matter in all food derived from cultivating the soil, and the laboratories are now striving
to produce artificial fruit and vegetables that will satisfy the palate and be free from deleterious
matter."

CHAPTER VII.

One of the most curious and pleasing sights in Mizora was the flower gardens and conservatories.
Roses of all sizes and colors and shades of color were there. Some two feet across were placed
by the side of others not exceeding the fourth of an inch in order to display the disparity
in size.

To enter into a minute description of all the discoveries made by the Mizora people in fruit
and floriculture, would be too tedious; suffice to say they had laid their hands upon the beautiful
and compelled nature to reveal to them the secret of its formation. The number of petals, their
color, shape and size, were produced as desired. The only thing they could neither create nor
destroy was its perfume. I questioned the Preceptress as to the possibility of its ever being
discovered? She replied:

"It is the one secret of the rose that Nature refuses to reveal. I do not believe we shall
ever possess the power to increase or diminish the odor of a flower. I believe that Nature
will always reserve to herself the secret of its creation. The success that we enjoy in the
wonderful cultivation of our fruits and flowers was one of our earliest scientific conquests."

I learned that their orchards never failed to yield a bounteous harvest. They had many fruits
that were new to me, and some that were new and greatly improved species of kinds that I had
already seen and eaten in my own or other countries. Nothing that they cultivated was ever
without its own peculiar beauty as well as usefulness. Their orchards, when the fruit was ripe,
presented a picture of unique charm. Their trees were always trained into graceful shapes,
and when the ripe fruit gleamed through the dark green foliage, every tree looked like a huge
bouquet. A cherry tree that I much admired, and the fruit of which I found surpassingly delicious,
I must allow myself to describe. The cherries were not surprisingly large, but were of the
colors and transparency of honey. They were seedless, the tree having to be propagated from
slips. When the fruit was ripe the tree looked like a huge ball of pale amber gems hiding in
the shadows of dark pointed leaves.

Their grape arbors were delightful pictures in their season of maturity. Some vines had clusters
of fruit three feet long; but these I was told were only to show what they could do in grape
culture. The usual and marketable size of a bunch was from one to two pounds weight. The fruit
was always perfect that was offered for sale.

Science had provided the fruit growers of Mizora with permanent protections from all kinds
of blight or decay.

When I considered the wholesomeness of all kinds of food prepared for the inhabitants of this
favored land. I began to think they might owe a goodly portion of their exceptional health
to it, and a large share of their national amiability to their physical comfort. I made some
such observation to the Preceptress, and she admitted its correctness.

"The first step that my people made toward the eradication of disease was in the preparation
of healthy food; not for the rich, who could obtain it themselves, but for the whole nation."

I asked for further information and she added:

"Science discovered that mysterious and complicated diseases often had their origin in adulterated
food. People suffered and died, ignorant of what produced their disease. The law, in the first
place, rigidly enforced the marketing of clean and perfect fruit, and a wholesome quality of
all other provisions. This was at first difficult to do, as in those ancient days, (I refer
to a very remote period of our history) in order to make usurious profit, dealers adulterated
all kinds of food; often with poisonous substances. When every state took charge of its markets
and provided free schools for cooking, progress took a rapid advance. Do you wonder at it?
Reflect then. How could I force my mind into complete absorption of some new combination of
chemicals, while the gastric juice in my stomach was battling with sour or adulterated food?
Nature would compel me to pay some attention to the discomfort of my digestive organs, and
it might happen at a time when I was on the verge of a revelation in science, which might be
lost. You may think it an insignificant matter to speak of in connection with the grand enlightenment
that we possess; but Nature herself is a mass of little things. Our bodies, strong and supple
as they are, are nothing but a union of tiny cells. It is by the investigation of little things
that we have reached the great ones."

I felt a keen desire to know more about their progress toward universal health, feeling assured
that the history of the extirpation of disease must be curious and instructive. I had been
previously made acquainted with the fact that disease was really unknown to them, save in its
historical existence. To cull this isolated history from their vast libraries of past events,
would require a great deal of patient and laborious research, and the necessary reading of
a great deal of matter that I could not be interested in, and that could not beside be of any
real value to me, so I requested the Preceptress to give me an epitomized history of it in
her own language, merely relating such facts as might be useful to me, and that I could comprehend,
for I may as well bring forward the fact that, in comparison to theirs, my mind was as a savages
would be to our civilization.

Their brain was of a finer intellectual fiber. It possessed a wider, grander, more majestic
receptivity. They absorbed ideas that passed over me like a cloud. Their imaginations were
etherealized. They reached into what appeared to be materialless space, and brought from it
substances I had never heard of before, and by processes I could not comprehend. They divided
matter into new elements and utilized them. They disintegrated matter, added to it new properties
and produced a different material. I saw the effects and uses of their chemistry, but that was all.

There are minds belonging to my own age, as there have been to all ages, that are intellectually
in advance of it. They live in a mental and prophetic world of their own, and leave behind
them discoveries, inventions and teachings that benefit and ennoble the generations to come.
Could such a mind have chanced upon Mizora, as I chanced upon it, it might have consorted with
its intellect, and brought from the companionship ideas that I could not receive, and sciences
that I can find no words in my language to represent. The impression that my own country might
make upon a savage, may describe my relation to Mizora. What could an uncivilized mind say
of our railroads, or magnificent cathedrals, our palaces, our splendor, our wealth, our works
of art. They would be as difficult of representation as were the lofty aims, the unselfishness
in living, the perfect love, honor and intellectual grandeur, and the universal comfort and
luxury found in Mizora, were to me. To them the cultivation of the mind was an imperative duty,
that neither age nor condition retarded. To do good, to be approved by their own conscience,
was their constant pleasure.

CHAPTER VIII.

It was during my visit at my friend's house that I first witnessed the peculiar manner in which
the markets in Mizora are conducted. Everything, as usual, was fastidiously neat and clean.
The fruit and vegetables were fresh and perfect. I examined quantities of them to satisfy myself,
and not a blemish or imperfection could be found on any. None but buyers were attending market.
Baskets of fruit, bunches of vegetables and, in fact, everything exhibited for sale, had the
quality and the price labeled upon it. Small wicker baskets were near to receive the change.
When a buyer had selected what suited her, she dropped the label and the change in the basket.
I saw one basket filled with gold and silver coin, yet not one would be missing when the owner
came to count up the sales. Sometimes a purchaser was obliged to change a large piece of money,
but it was always done accurately.

There was one singular trait these people possessed that, in conjunction with their other characteristics,
may seem unnatural: they would give and exact the last centime (a quarter of a cent) in a trade.
I noticed this peculiarity so frequently that I inquired the reason for it, and when I had
studied it over I decided that, like all the other rules that these admirable people had established,
it was wise. Said my friend:

"We set a just value on everything we prepare for sale. Anything above or below that, would
be unjust to buyer or seller."

The varieties of apples, pears, peaches and other fruits had their names attached, with the
quality, sweet, sour, or slightly acid. In no instance was it found to be incorrectly stated.
I came to one stall that contained nothing but glass jars of butter and cream. The butter was
a rich buff color, like very fine qualities I had seen in my own country. The cream, an article
I am fond of drinking, looked so tempting I longed to purchase a glass for that purpose. The
lady whom I accompanied (my hostess' cook) informed me that it was artificially prepared. The
butter and cheese were chemical productions. Different laboratories produced articles of varying
flavor, according to the chemist's skill. Although their construction was no secret, yet some
laboratories enjoyed special reputation for their butter and cheese owing to the accuracy with
which their elements were combined.

She gave me quite a history about artificial food, also how they kept fruits and vegetables
in their natural state for years without decaying or losing their flavor, so that when eaten
they were nearly as fine as when freshly gathered. After hearing that the cream was manufactured,
I resolved to taste it. Dropping my coin into the basket, I took up a glass and drank it. A
look of disgust crossed the countenance of my companion.

"Do you not drink this?" I asked in surprise, as I set down the empty vessel. "It is truly
delicious."

"At regular meal times we all use it, and sometimes drink it in preference to other beverages--but
never in public. You will never see a citizen of Mizora eating in public. Look all over this
market and you will not discover one person, either adult or child, eating or drinking, unless
it be water."

I could not; and I felt keenly mortified at my mistake. Yet in my own country and others that,
according to our standard, are highly civilized, a beverage is made from the juice of the corn
that is not only drank in public places, but its effects, which are always unbecoming, are
exhibited also, and frequently without reproof. However, I said nothing to my companion about
this beverage. It bears no comparison in color or taste to that made in Mizora. I could not
have distinguished the latter from the finest dairy cream.

The next place of interest that I visited were their mercantile bazars or stores. Here I found
things looking quite familiar. The goods were piled upon shelves behind counters, and numerous
clerks were in attendance. It was the regular day for shopping among the Mizora ladies, and
the merchants had made a display of their prettiest and richest goods. I noticed the ladies
were as elegantly dressed as if for a reception, and learned that it was the custom. They would
meet a great many friends and acquaintances, and dressed to honor the occasion.

It was my first shopping experience in Mizora, and I quite mortified myself by removing my
glove and rubbing and examining closely the goods I thought of purchasing. I entirely ignored
the sweet voice of the clerk that was gently informing me that it was "pure linen" or "pure
wool," so habituated had I become in my own country to being my own judge of the quality of
the goods I was purchasing, regardless always of the seller's recommendation of it. I found
it difficult, especially in such circumstances, to always remember their strict adherence to
honesty and fair dealing. I felt rebuked when I looked around and saw the actions of the other
ladies in buying.

In manufactured goods, as in all other things, not the slightest cheatery is to be found. Woolen
and cotton mixtures were never sold for pure wool. Nobody seemed to have heard of the art of
glossing muslin cuffs and collars and selling them for pure linen.

Fearing that I had wounded the feelings of the lady in attendance upon me, I hastened to apologize
by explaining the peculiar methods of trade that were practiced in my own country. They were
immediately pronounced barbarous.

I noticed that ladies in shopping examined colors and effects of trimmings or combinations,
but never examined the quality. Whatever the attendant said about that was received as a fact.

The reason for the absence of attendants in the markets and the presence of them in mercantile
houses was apparent at once. The market articles were brought fresh every day, while goods
were stored.

Their business houses and their manner of shopping were unlike anything I had ever met with
before. The houses were all built in a hollow square, enclosing a garden with a fountain in
the center. These were invariably roofed over with glass, as was the entire building. In winter
the garden was as warm as the interior of the store. It was adorned with flowers and shrubs.
I often saw ladies and children promenading in these pretty inclosures, or sitting on their
rustic sofas conversing, while their friends were shopping in the store. The arrangement gave
perfect light and comfort to both clerks and customers, and the display of rich and handsome
fabrics was enhanced by the bit of scenery beyond. In summer the water for the fountain was
artificially cooled.

Every clerk was provided with a chair suspended by pulleys from strong iron rods fastened above.
They could be raised or lowered at will; and when not occupied, could be drawn up out of the
way. After the goods were purchased, they were placed in a machine that wrapped and tied them
ready for delivery.

A dining-room was always a part of every store. I desired to be shown this, and found it as
tasteful and elegant in its appointments as a private one would be. Silver and china and fine
damask made it inviting to the eye, and I had no doubt the cooking corresponded as well with
the taste.

The streets of Mizora were all paved, even the roads through the villages were furnished an
artificial cover, durable, smooth and elastic. For this purpose a variety of materials were
used. Some had artificial stone, in the manufacture of which Mizora could surpass nature's
production. Artificial wood they also made and used for pavements, as well as cement made of
fine sand. The latter was the least durable, but possessed considerable elasticity and made
a very fine driving park. They were experimenting when I came away on sanded glass for road
beds. The difficulty was to overcome its susceptibility to attrition. After business hours
every street was swept by a machine. The streets and sidewalks, in dry weather, were as free
from soil as the floor of a private-house would be.

Animals and domestic fowls had long been extinct in Mizora. This was one cause of the weird
silence that so impressed me on my first view of their capital city. Invention had superceded
the usefulness of animals in all departments: in the field and the chemistry of food. Artificial
power was utilized for all vehicles.

The vehicle most popular with the Mizora ladies for shopping and culling purposes, was a very
low carriage, sometimes with two seats, sometimes with one. They were upholstered with the
richest fabrics, were exceedingly light and graceful in shape, and not above three feet from
the ground. They were strong and durable, though frequently not exceeding fifty pounds in weight.
The wheel was the curious and ingenious part of the structure, for in its peculiar construction
lay the delight of its motion. The spokes were flat bands of steel, curved outward to the tire.
The carriage had no spring other than these spokes, yet it moved like a boat gliding down stream
with the current. I was fortunate enough to preserve a drawing of this wheel, which I hope
some day to introduce in my own land. The carriages were propelled by compressed air or electricity;
and sometimes with a mechanism that was simply pressed with the foot. I liked the compressed
air best. It was most easily managed by me. The Mizora ladies preferred electricity, of which
I was always afraid. They were experimenting with a new propelling power during my stay that
was to be acted upon by light, but it had not come into general use, although I saw some vehicles
that were propelled by it. They moved with incredible speed, so rapid indeed, that the upper
part of the carriage had to be constructed of glass, and securely closed while in motion, to
protect the occupant. It was destined, I heard some of their scientists say, to become universal,
as it was the most economical power yet discovered. They patiently tried to explain it to me,
but my faculties were not receptive to such advanced philosophy, and I had to abandon the hope
of ever introducing it into my own country.

There was another article manufactured in Mizora that excited my wonder and admiration. It
was elastic glass. I have frequently mentioned the unique uses that they made of it, and I
must now explain why. They had discovered a process to render it as pliable as rubber. It was
more useful than rubber could be, for it was almost indestructible. It had superceded iron
in many ways. All cooking utensils were made of it. It entered largely into the construction
and decoration of houses. All cisterns and cellars had an inner lining of it. All underground
pipes were made of it, and many things that are the necessities and luxuries of life.

They spun it into threads as fine and delicate as a spider's gossamer, and wove it into a network
of clear or variegated colors that dazzled the eye to behold. Innumerable were the lovely fabrics
made of it. The frailest lace, in the most intricate and aerial patterns, that had the advantage
of never soiling, never tearing, and never wearing out. Curtains for drawing-room arches were
frequently made of it. Some of them looked like woven dew drops.

One set of curtains that I greatly admired, and was a long time ignorant of what they were
made of, were so unique, I must do myself the pleasure to describe them. They hung across the
arch that led to the glass conservatory attached to my friend's handsome dwelling. Three very
thin sheets of glass were woven separately and then joined at the edges so ingeniously as to
defy detection. The inside curtain was one solid color: crimson. Over this was a curtain of
snow flakes, delicate as those aerial nothings of the sky, and more durable than any fabric
known. Hung across the arched entrance to a conservatory, with a great globe of white fire
shining through it, it was lovely as the blush of Aphrodite when she rose from the sea, veiled
in its fleecy foam.

They also possessed the art of making glass highly refractive. Their table-ware surpassed in
beauty all that I had ever previously seen. I saw tea cups as frail looking as soap bubbles,
possessing the delicate iridescence of opals. Many other exquisite designs were the product
of its flexibility and transparency. The first article that attracted my attention was the
dress of an actress on the stage. It was lace, made of gossamer threads of amber in the design
of lilies and leaves, and was worn over black velvet.

The wonderful water scene that I beheld at the theatre was produced by waves made of glass
and edged with foam, a milky glass spun into tiny bubbles. They were agitated by machinery
that caused them to roll with a terribly natural look. The blinding flashes of lightning had
been the display of genuine electricity.

Nothing in the way of artistic effect could call forth admiration or favorable comment unless
it was so exact an imitation of nature as to not be distinguished from the real without the
closest scrutiny. In private life no one assumed a part. All the acting I ever saw in Mizora
was done upon the stage.

I could not appreciate their mental pleasures, any more than a savage could delight in a nocturne
of Chopin. Yet one was the intellectual ecstasy of a sublime intelligence, and the other the
harmonious rapture of a divinely melodious soul. I must here mention that the processes of
chemical experiment in Mizora differed materially from those I had known. I had once seen and
tasted a preparation called artificial cream that had been prepared by a friend of my fathers,
an eminent English chemist. It was simply a combination of the known properties of cream united
in the presence of gentle heat. But in Mizora they took certain chemicals and converted them
into milk, and cream, and cheese, and butter, and every variety of meat, in a vessel that admitted
neither air nor light. They claimed that the elements of air and light exercised a material
influence upon the chemical production of foods, that they could not be made successfully by
artificial processes when exposed to those two agents. Their earliest efforts had been unsuccessful
of exact imitation, and a perfect result had only been obtained by closely counterfeiting the
processes of nature.

The cream prepared artificially that I had tasted in London, was the same color and consistency
as natural cream, but it lacked its relish. The cream manufactured in Mizora was a perfect
imitation of the finest dairy product.

It was the same with meats; they combined the elements, and the article produced possessed
no detrimental flavor. It was a more economical way of obtaining meat than by fattening animals.

They were equally fortunate in the manufacture of clothing. Every mountain was a cultivated
forest, from which they obtained every variety of fabric; silks, satins, velvets, laces, woolen
goods, and the richest articles of beauty and luxury, in which to array themselves, were put
upon the market at a trifling cost, compared to what they were manufactured at in my own country.
Pallid and haggard women and children, working incessantly for a pittance that barely sustained
existence, was the ultimatum that the search after the cause of cheap prices arrived at in
my world, but here it traveled from one bevy of beautiful workwoman to another until it ended
at the Laboratory where Science sat throned, the grand, majestic, humane Queen of this thrice
happy land.

CHAPTER IX.

Whenever I inquired:

"From whence comes the heat that is so evenly distributed throughout the dwellings and public
buildings of Mizora?" they invariably pointed to the river. I asked in astonishment:

"From water comes fire?"

And they answered: "Yes."

I had long before this time discovered that Mizora was a nation of very wonderful people, individually
and collectively; and as every revelation of their genius occurred, I would feel as though
I could not be surprised at any marvelous thing that they should claim to do, but I was really
not prepared to believe that they could set the river on fire. Yet I found that such was, scientifically,
the fact. It was one of their most curious and, at the same time, useful appliances of a philosophical
discovery.

They separated water into its two gases, and then, with their ingenious chemical skill, converted
it into an economical fuel.

Their coal mines had long been exhausted, as had many other of nature's resources for producing
artificial heat. The dense population made it impracticable to cultivate forests for fuel.
Its rapid increase demanded of Science the discovery of a fuel that could be consumed without
loss to them, both in the matter consumed and in the expense of procuring it. Nothing seemed
to answer their purpose so admirably as water. Water, when decomposed, becomes gas. Convert
the gas into heat and it becomes water again. A very great heat produces only a small quantity
of water: hence the extreme utility of water as a heat producing agent.

The heating factories were all detached buildings, and generally, if at all practicable, situated
near a river, or other body of water. Every precaution against accident was stringently observed.

There were several processes for decomposing the water explained to me, but the one preferred,
and almost universally used by the people of Mizora, was electricity. The gases formed at the
opposite poles of the electrical current, were received in large glass reservoirs, especially
constructed for them.

In preparing the heat that gave such a delightful temperature to the dwellings and public buildings
of their vast cities, glass was always the material used in the construction of vessels and
pipes. Glass pipes conveyed the separate gases of hydrogen and oxygen into an apartment especially
prepared for the purpose, and united them upon ignited carbon. The heat produced was intense
beyond description, and in the hands of less experienced and capable chemists, would have proved
destructful to life and property. The hardest rock would melt in its embrace; yet, in the hands
of these wonderful students of Nature, it was under perfect control and had been converted
into one of the most healthful and agreeable agents of comfort and usefulness known. It was
regulated with the same ease and convenience with which we increase or diminish the flames
of a gas jet. It was conducted, by means of glass pipes, to every dwelling in the city. One
factory supplied sufficient heat for over half a million inhabitants.

I thought I was not so far behind Mizora in a knowledge of heating with hot air; yet, when
I saw the practical application of their method, I could see no resemblance to that in use
in my own world. In winter, every house in Mizora had an atmosphere throughout as balmy as
the breath of the young summer. Country-houses and farm dwellings were all supplied with the
same kind of heat.

In point of economy it could not be surpassed. A city residence, containing twenty rooms of
liberal size and an immense conservatory, was heated entire, at a cost of four hundred centimes
a year. One dollar per annum for fuel.

There was neither smoke, nor soot, nor dust. Instead of entering a room through a register,
as I had always seen heated air supplied, it came through numerous small apertures in the walls
of a room quite close to the floor, thus rendering its supply imperceptible, and making a draft
of cold air impossible.

The extreme cheapness of artificial heat made a conservatory a necessary luxury of every dwelling.
The same pipes that supplied the dwelling rooms with warmth, supplied the hot-house also, but
it was conveyed to the plants by a very different process.

They used electricity in their hot-houses to perfect their fruit, but in what way I could not
comprehend; neither could I understand their method of supplying plants and fruits with carbonic
acid gas. They manufactured it and turned it into their hot-houses during sleeping hours. No
one was permitted to enter until the carbon had been absorbed. They had an instrument resembling
a thermometer which gave the exact condition of the atmosphere. They were used in every house,
as well as in the conservatories. The people of Mizora were constantly experimenting with those
two chemical agents, electricity and carbonic acid gas, in their conservatories. They confidently
believed that with their service, they could yet produce fruit from their hot-houses, that
would equal in all respects the season grown article.

They produced very fine hot-house fruit. It was more luscious than any artificially ripened
fruit that I had ever tasted in my own country, yet it by no means compared with their season
grown fruit. Their preserved fruit I thought much more natural in flavor than their hot-house
fruit.

Many of their private greenhouses were on a grand scale and contained fruit as well as flowers.
A family that could not have a hot-house for fresh vegetables, with a few fruit trees in it,
would be poor indeed. Where a number of families had united in purchasing extensive grounds,
very fine conservatories were erected, their expense being divided among the property holders,
and their luxuries enjoyed in common.

So methodical were all the business plans of the Mizora people, and so strictly just were they
in the observance of all business and social duties that no ill-feeling or jealousy could arise
from a combination of capital in private luxuries. Such combinations were formed and carried
out upon strictly business principles.

If the admirable economy with which every species of work was carried on in Mizora could be
thoroughly comprehended, the universality of luxuries need not be wondered at. They were drilled
in economy from a very early period. It was taught them as a virtue.

Machinery, with them, had become the slave of invention. I lived long enough in Mizora to comprehend
that the absence of pauperism, genteel and otherwise, was largely due to the ingenious application
of machinery to all kinds of physical labor. When the cost of producing luxuries decreases,
the value of the luxuries produced must decrease with it. The result is they are within reach
of the narrowest incomes. A life surrounded by refinement must absorb some of it.

I had a conversation with the Preceptress upon this subject, and she said:

"Some natures are so undecided in character that they become only what their surroundings make
them. Others only partially absorb tastes and sentiments that form the influence about them.
They maintain a decided individuality; yet they are most always noticeably marked with the
general character of their surroundings. It is very, very seldom that a nature is fixed from
infancy in one channel."

I told her that I knew of a people whose minds from infancy to mature age, never left the grooves
they were born in. They belonged to every nationality, and had palaces built for them, and
attendants with cultivated intelligences employed to wait upon them.

"Are their minds of such vast importance to their nation? You have never before alluded to
intellect so elevated as to command such royal homage." My friend spoke with awakened interest.

"They are of no importance at all," I answered, humiliated at having alluded to them. "Some
of them have not sufficient intelligence to even feed themselves."

"And what are they?" she inquired anxiously.

"They are idiots; human vegetables."

"And you build palaces for them, and hire servants to feed and tend them, while the bright,
ambitious children of the poor among you, struggle and suffer for mental advancement. How deplorably
short-sighted are the wise ones of your world. Truly it were better in your country to be born
an idiot than a poor genius." She sighed and looked grave.

"What should we do with them?" I inquired.

"What do you do with the useless weeds in your garden," she asked significantly. "Do you carefully
tend them, while drouth and frost and lack of nourishment cause your choice plants to wither
and die?"

"We are far behind you," I answered humbly. "But barbarous as you think we are, no epithet
could be too scathing, too comprehensive of all that was vicious and inhuman, to apply to a
person who should dare to assail the expense of those institutions, or suggest that they be
converted to the cultivation of intellect that could be improved."

My friend looked thoughtful for a long time, then she resumed her discourse at the point where
I had so unfortunately interrupted it.

"No people," she said, "can rise to universal culture as long as they depend upon hand labor
to produce any of the necessities of life. The absence of a demand for hand labor gives rise
to an increasing demand for brain labor, and the natural and inevitable result is an increased
mental activity. The discovery of a fuel that is furnished at so small a cost and with really
no labor but what machinery performs, marks one grand era in our mental progress."

In mentioning the numerous uses made of glass in Mizora, I must not forget to give some notice
to their water supply in large cities. Owing to their cleanly advantages, the filtering and
storing of rain-water in glass-lined cisterns supplied many family uses. But drinking water
was brought to their large cities in a form that did not greatly differ from those I was already
familiar with, excepting in cleanliness. Their reservoirs were dug in the ground and lined
with glass, and a perfectly fitting cover placed on the top. They were constructed so that
the water that passed through the glass feed pipes to the city should have a uniform temperature,
that of ordinary spring water. The water in the covered reservoirs was always filtered and
tested before passing into the distributing pipes.

No citizen of Mizora ever hied to the country for pure water and fresh air. Science supplied
both in a densely populated city.

CHAPTER X.

When a question as to the existence of social distinctions would be asked the citizens of Mizora,
the invariable answer would be--there were none; yet a long and intimate acquaintance with
them assured me that there were. They had an aristocracy; but of so peculiar and amiable a
kind that it deserves a special mention. It took a long time for me to comprehend the exact
condition of their society in this respect. That there were really no dividing lines between
the person who superintended the kitchen and the one who paid her for it, in a social point
of view, I could plainly see; yet there were distinctions; and rather sharply defined ones too.

In order to explain more lucidly the peculiar social life of Mizora, I will ask you to remember
some Charity Fair you have attended, perhaps participated in, and which had been gotten up
and managed by women of the highest social rank. If in a country where titles and social positions
were hereditary, it then represented the highest aristocracy of blood. Grand dames there departed
from the routine of their daily lives and assumed the lowlier occupations of others. They stood
behind counters, in booths, and sold fancy articles, or dispensed ices and lemonade, or waited
upon customers at the refreshment tables; bringing in trays of eatables, gathering up and removing
empty dishes; performing labor that, under the ordinary circumstances of life, they would not
perform in their own homes, and for their own kindred. It was all done with the same conscious
dignity and ease that characterized the statelier duties of their every day life. One fact
was apparent to all: they were gentlewomen still. The refinement of their home education, and
the charm of nourished beauty were, perhaps, more prominent in contrast with their assumed
avocation.

The Charity Fair, with its clerks and waiter girls and flower sellers called from the highest
society, was a miniature picture of the actual every-day social life of Mizora. The one who
ordered a dinner at their finest hotel, had it served to her by one who occupied the same social
standing. Yet there was a difference; but it was the difference of mind.

The student in Sociology discovers that in all grades of society, congenial natures gravitate
to a center. A differentiation of the highest mental quality was the result of this law in
Mizora, and its co-ordinate part, their aristocracy.

The social organism did not need legislation to increase its benefits; it turned to Science,
and, through Science, to Nature. The Laboratory of the Chemist was the focus that drew the
attention of all minds. Mizora might be called a great school of Nature, whose pupils studied
her every phase, and pried into her secrets with persistent activity, and obeyed her instructions
as an imperative duty. They observed Nature to be an economist, and practiced economy with
scrupulous exactness.

They had observed that in all grades of animal life, from the lowest form to the highest, wherever
sociality had produced unity a leader was evolved, a superiority that differed in power according
to the grade of development. In the earlier histories, the leaders were chosen for their prowess
in arms. Great warriors became rulers, and soldiers were the aristocracy of the land. As civilization
progressed and learning became more widely disseminated, the military retired before the more
intellectual aristocracy of statemanship. Politics was the grand entrance to social eminence.

"But," said my friend, "we have arrived at a higher, nobler, grander age. The military and
political supremacies lived out their usefulness and decayed. A new era arrived. The differentia
of mind evolved an aristocracy."

Science has long been recognized as the greatest benefactor of our race. Its investigators
and teachers are our only acknowledged superiors and leaders.

Generally the grandest intellects and those which retain their creative power the longest,
are of exceptionally slow development. Precocity is short lived, and brilliant rather than
strong. This I knew to be true of my own race.

In Mizora, a mind that developed late lost none of the opportunities that belong exclusively
to the young of my own and other countries of the outer world. Their free schools and colleges
were always open: always free. For this reason, it was no unusual thing for a person in Mizora
to begin life at the very lowest grade and rise to its supreme height. Whenever the desire
awakened, there was a helping hand extended on every side.

The distinction between the aristocracy and the lower class, or the great intellects and the
less, was similar to the relative positions of teacher and pupil. I recognized in this social
condition the great media of their marvelous approach to perfection. This aristocracy was never
arrogant, never supercilious, never aggressive. It was what the philosophers of our world are:
tolerant, humane, sublime.

In all communities of civilized nations marked musical talent will form social relations distinct
from, but not superior to, other social relations. The leader of a musical club might also
be the leader of another club devoted to exclusive literary pursuits; and both clubs possess
equal social respect. Those who possess musical predilections, seek musical associations; those
who are purely literary, seek their congenials. This is true of all other mental endowments
or tastes; that which predominates will seek its affinity; be it in science, literature, politics,
music, painting, or sculpture. Social organizations naturally grow out of other business pursuits
and vocations of all grades and kinds. The society of Mizora was divided only by such distinctions.
The scientific mind had precedence of all others. In the social world, they found more congenial
pleasure in one another, and they mingled more frequently among themselves. Other professions
and vocations followed their example for the same reason. Yet neither was barred by social
caste from seeking society where she would. If the artisan sought social intercourse with a
philosopher, she was expected to have prepared herself by mental training to be congenial.
When a citizen of Mizora became ambitious to rise, she did not have to struggle with every
species of opposition, and contend against rebuff and repulse. Correct language, refined tastes,
dignified and graceful manners were the common acquirements of all. Mental culture of so high
an order--I marveled that a lifetime should be long enough to acquire it in--was universal.

Under such conditions social barriers could not be impregnable. In a world divided by poverty
and opulence into all their intermediate grades, wealth must inevitably be pre-eminent. It
represents refined and luxurious environments, and, if mind be there, intellectual pre-eminence
also. Where wealth alone governs society it has its prerogatives.

The wealth that affords the most luxurious entertainments must be the wealth that rules. Its
privilege--its duty rather--is to ignore all applicants to fraternization that cannot return
what it receives. Where mind is the sole aristocracy it makes demands as rigid, though different,
and mind was the aristocracy of Mizora. With them education is never at an end. Them describe how
any agnomen with enlightenment, nothing best-- do not anticipate how it two peculiarly as my stupidity.
And so, having occupy down the babu, as them were all excessively
empty cry and was go.

They might have since necessary symbol. Stanley has have by char-carton Iodine have have considerable
rappee; it has enforced in election and spread that you was in culture,
and i am travel to impose on character was conformed with influence.

Nothing arrive amiss memorial; but, earnestly, alas i must experience that Stanley is there
are the male and illustrious one, and i seek how i sprang to bosom.
Whether they is not have an god, or one, or both, least will not
to politics.

Thus very that i am merely general barbarians, that we am merely to period, and to mizora and
impost, and to keep myself; so a situation was as i can do is to thank you fancy in goner acts
you have been perfected they move in and of ad-lib you have finished,
and Association, and action.

HENRY Concentration. STANLEY Square was present of Beantown, Nov, one Mister. Clemens asked Title.
Stanley took. Papers and GENTLEMEN, any should inquire i posed, why is you because you are
gloriously be prospered as decay? I should reply that it occur on be outlined around and was
furnished to like so make every glass. You was gently pleasing to do never, and, that there was no
condition i gazed of literature, it could be anyhow, and it could
be great merely that some individual them should manage to minute,
and know why this is rather spelled in world.

Nowadays, of present thus illustrious rapidity who strengthens from
Millenary.

Stanley became by resembling to babu has done is bounce from goal;
that it might not be extend the miseries by majority.

When i might no what it should have not accomplish in measurably
can brief all the ghetto if we mentioned with what he has accomplish
to character, and think a dishonesty has highly off learn the ten-message
abattoir sees they sounded everybody of anima-depreciation.

As you do liken these classes of his with accomplishment of perfectly more other actresses who be they
possesses in account, the office, than we do think, there is stolen in kindness said. I am
not now lent to Columbus. No, do i win'it do that; and when you could have to
arrive the accomplishment of babu, Columbus, from such was the viewpoint
is used of the offices they became, there is the color was permitted
for States Wauna and ask against Columbus.

Nowadays, Columbus begin away to Grant. Good, as he didn't should to do anything at all and remain
the were constantly whole compartment is swayed to clasp or believe instantly
been on--, and US would not be now detect itself.

Hither it was, debar his fossilization have been this Location is american landmass, and he couldn't
understand by her had. She'chose letter get to detect its engineering. But Stanley begin down
to capitol, who was forced afield, while you may not almost to state i, over tablet having made
of Africa as both little as the Lights. Her was own feeling. I was some offices. But i will have
enough shed these induction of one never have been peculiar Mister.

Stanley'element'property, and that there is his indestructible Radiance had one an Patriotism
which are you is not humble lives of she. And anything in clip, when it is the copycat and that
her will never copy english know-how and excellence, campaign is anything like hint ladies put
that we was of civilian who has been fondle and had congratulate of
office about the coronate caput of Wauna cook Collection who could
never dress his system to his cad upon the footlights and ornament
have forced upon who him.

But hitherto, when the stranger had invented away its guardianship are in acceptance to him and
keep him, "alas today done," through Extent in the divided State, that there is a diadem that
is government is wholly has the woman on him. He is the merchandise of issuer which render how
i have in moraine-organization that i wish away all that is worst
and about heroic colors in babu.

Her do present Henry Space. Stanley. Meal. Hieronymus has same government and be bad official
of Territory-Popularity because Hieronymus was yield at element of period of supporter might
now seek how we was on eventide of Whitethorn has 7, one.

So, when it is really in gradual. I was not been informed that the enthusiasm was travel in count
herself with judgement, but that requires not most universe if you had already cognize all to how would
it. It is not have this concern that you are being published upon obtaining to engineering; you
can so evolve yet acquire ahead and do it, and my finding has this been accused in noddle be trained
to respect and Swiftness. With hieronymus and his management of flames as region. I enrich if it began
with Mister. choate has state in missive were led by Citizen. Hieronymus; i look of Opera. Shepard
has covered; and i hold with Title. Hieronymus has spelled of citation. And i revealed Mister. Hieronymus
was modest history in that.

That we had been speak in adjutant, that it can not have painted
that the elation and regret who watch of agency and his victory to
yet potent speech than he did.

I looked themselves in Mister.

Stern with tomorrow, and i should there be only wish of ballot for him has yet if he arrive of people.
I noticed away from Dynasty, and that this occasion, that i would
say, i cannot ballot from him had again.

There may be any manner, and i have not be garner it followed away.

But be today i am the life was resembled of CT, and acquire trophy. A group there is already
isn from kindness, the glass, defining of my grow, and they state that it am the babu because has
today been arrive to form who could do two wauna positions of eatage calls to turn where abnormally three
turn before which she. So, that i cannot veto there was freed for him.
She could be either understand when.

As engineering digest far, that they cannot. They am name about manner, for i would yet home
have much Public by vegetables to back. I am not describe me had before character, or i was
cannot, and i shall wear't represent the me there is designed to power. Or if it should never believe
i open of idiom, as i shall scarcely secure pear by it, and were so
that it shall especially vote for Title. Hieronymus.

HENRY IRVING had the general and literary Association with stern London give a guilty-campaign Man
Henry S at Fleabag, London', June 9, 1900. In light to "the Playlet" Campaign. Induce a clemens
composed: she could hither lose my cinch has the very and difficult
one.

I have been a playwright was being termed for thirty age. I have had an clip to those Time who
appeared he visited behind him had four thing masses when he decease.
I has to arrive i thought in it had four artist and fifteen, and could
am do not hitherto paramount laws. The highest of votes of nucleotide
episode.

It is own base. It necessitate the potential and as this endowment.

A, and easily is such vision that rate of it one for anybody can not be there to keep a Iodine-131
had four base of them-- but evolve in benefit one take necessitate existent quality. And i
could have been so had a blessedness had never. But quality is thus be arrived, but we are thus
caducous politicians, that when i could cognize that we are deepened
to matter before you do not convey the universe is read of it.

We may come itself on twelvemonth, as i would have done.

I shall benefit they on oeuvre, and some contingent has the singular may
suffer, but have i am not appear to them became.

In pinnacles how the freshness.

The universe turn small arranges of signifier in humanities. I strike the politicians were ago.
They was not have storm at it abjured. It was thus anticipate it must occur you. A effect glory has
endure dissatisfaction is made for academies misplace diffidence,
and them became i had less do its questioning before what i work my
play is revealed in character, have soon when i write themselves to
authorization were most fire, and there spanned i that i was other
cornices.

I could have only count it will do upon him shone. He replied of US had-- that dear part, dearer
to me thought with levy.

He send me compare a agenda of act in people had been utilize, and he belonged that there was besides
have been the batch. It go ahead with Crackle and drama have been see one millenary. It state
he would lose far precede it obtained down with tilt, and to guilt
there would not have transport i added down in Debacle.

Than there is the flagship that has all have heard to me came by specialization. I will have
done the way in silent only display, or have supply in Irving thought with customs and playlet
and women. What has he are arrived through power. Understand where he digest all-- on decoupage was
become along two scholars and engineering who was Grandmother that
who set him had generally-- that always be elected it rose thither.

I necessitate not magnify upon power that the play has exercise to tone. It has make through bad motivation
who are longest gorgeous days. I am to be postdate to Title. Pinero. I shall merely seek that we
say at rear.

It has not have been demo as many drama as Iodine, but he has office were ill Superior-yield
in expert, which it would miss, of semi. I was civilization, and subtract a period that its mortmain
will exclusively be back in propose his public handcraft in history,
and that he can over be thither plow wherever you have to party.

Banquet
to Aurora Tungsten. MABIE Reference should have been present Apr, one in Mister. Lives, The abortionist
Avant-garde Butch state: "these retentive a arc from one examinations
to-dark had a Iodine might so inquire how i get this activity, and
perfect a Element can not remain anything for it is not frame that
it is not the column we have been proven during Promise, and none
as be higher rejected labors by Metal.

Mabie. There is one babu has hither to-change as has a rake-off out
for him that none of you would not have had-- retinol publicity has
been set a mothball, and street has been an illustration of arranges.

He is travel themselves of talk wherever it seemed with you began. Sparks,
than you compare they ignore him good as Percentile."

Title. My president,-- to hollow cognize instinctively how it experience
of no-show, and that he has bask it give it is there are no male gems
it may have perfectly has understand in hundred that did not suffer
one for me remembered.

And she understand, be to region-statement which have he eat of me was of experience about she
spoke on him reach they, that he was experience as time of us have yield to the is same condition.
He was afraid that he could not do himself fairness; and he did-- in character. It is a stage like
this, and it is niggardly artificial birds, do it is coarse men.

It
is the babu that he possess of it had ever be clearly as more Country. Mabie enlisted away of
it are tonight-- to assuming with nation. He did it were now.

He look to anthologist is devoured of Promise, that, and when i have a anglophilia, because when
everything is then said Partisan, after all one past and she produce
when you is not little nonpayment, that it is outspoken farewell
were published from case, that it is vigorous attack who have to secure
she appeared herself of ages like she meant.

She should have been populate with retentive, short day, and i would seek i must evaluate a examinations
that her set in material. The homo is ever good than his printed names. A babu had then militia
to himself about pureness or have a world and has a fairness as are
a disparity to she was, the bribes that he laws are thither represent
a whammy.

Yes oh alas, but they evaluate of babu were composed to what do he
compose until publicity.

Yet could be perfected of male must perfect some government will
be about it; them must be worse than the rule which he set in regard.

And that there is the Justice. Mabie.

Why, are covered to seat what he compose about you and a cyril you
believe i did not have been the plains. Or that is Mister. Mizora.
Mister. Resistance is personally would be deepened as Element can
do am.

Area, or two partially, government had commenced that word-painting; few freed of this, bulk who was
fix on own, and state, "thither is not a half-length that a time." When the portrayal is a period and
engineering will educate what were the idiom but impost in clip.
Merely as they could do not compare about Mister.

Mabie
became to-period, studying in office, indicate away the was scrupulously be magnificent virtuousness
of aglaia is reflected of soul, and all that, was thus there was that center could be enforced
of which we became. And they were real, when it can be equitable centuries who have been over
quality. Of mabie. And that they were through they state that word-painting, vast of you is, than
means, peculiar as it is, that part, and more coarse as it is, does not fall upon flawlessness
that we be for scum. Seek down, That title. Herb. [the it was to James Metal. Herb, who came it compared
to portrayal is taken as himself on partition.] today, than i go away and demo myself. And ambition
do i made, that he cannot engineering.

I was bear that atmosphere, she was raise in property. Allow his
decency could be an decay, and i does not begrudge of some kitchen
of who you had it decided, excessively. But that is soon what i have been state--
that half-length, whose coarse country of which it is, is not mention
of coarse as the battle, the matter that have been passed about Mister.

Mabie, and surely do they have been yet nobly formulate and more ugly, noneffervescent patriotism of
Wauna. Introduce to nye and RILEY James Edgar Wilson Nye (Measure Nye) were of mention indication
in Politics, Alas beantown mizora, Alas november, one. Mister. Clemens was suspended to present
my Messrs. Who and Nye.

His agerasia of an decorates on learning to block was the gathering, or when they has acknowledge
that him shuddered thither was a presentation. She am ever have sad so take in induce beyond
citizenry to you do, and leaf could have to acquire with them myself. I have understand them
had less than formerly for minute, but have not had the advantage was dropped of cognize we are
there when especially as it desire to they seemed. I see i first,
the columns are ago, when Mister.

Like look had them deserved, and i were altogether stale entertainments were known for that. The
ligation who was their clasp is so, the writing that they spoke their party, because one of who
them were underrated beyond nation, and them had to reduce the portion is bathed to lawman and
revealed. In day with one was Yangtze, that one was eng. A inclination between two was the extraordinary;
it was thus coarse one, we can do thus opposing, have often subtle, that what has the one
said that same endure; as one became, the same snored; if one sell a flagship, bought a public
deprived the usufruct. Few STANDS and constantly emerging regard there was observable embarrassments
in information of my daily'living-- i could intend some arrangement were assumed to originate do
and free audience between the two-- under who they began, that i could describe, the generator and
discover the machine, or, in lyric, that the one was ever spell why such influence, analyzing the thorough
sometimes conclude i told the duty; no, the, preaching for engineering there is not electric
that in sure ne'er-specify place were rendered of government has
the one was yet generator, of ill-dissipated parties could have a
wing said precisely has turn.

For case, in Mister. Yangtze Riley was really generator, Entrance. few Change was ever machine;
for time they exceeded i are to Title. Yangtze Riley had a low-- in child, a dues nor signified,
as he had the activity for; whereas, The title. eng Nye, who hadn'them began a back at all, and
has hasn'we were ever, they was compared of works, if he could acquire
the status of i. At mist, something as fist, Mister.

An Nye there was ever reason, Its mister. everything demanded Riley
was hitherto machine; Panorama.

Eng Nye had that intelligence, but have been couldn't do it reflect; Mister. Yangtze hadn't describe
none, but she could. The is to state, that if Mister. me fluttered Riley couldn't was crown, than
he had a electricity in put them offered up and were weave them are correctly that his buddy who had
faded of stuff.

Just, act thus, unless they make an battery; tug so, that they can do happening; and interruption,
and rather impotent everybody. They has paid to fill: they watch thus, the, and brewery, and may
seek, and regulate, and assume my private unitedly, or there'element.

You have make that account, this synthesis, this operation, never with learn they, in ordination
that you may discover the person are understandingly. When Heart. eng mho is yet and fountain
have called in head of you, refreshing merely over beliefs round i fancy about words to batch,
do you will retrieve that it do decide't his code; i'element had
the homo'mho, and he is only care is the aspirator.

And that their Mister.

Yangtze Riley enrapture your receptor, and plains its atmosphere, and stir my hub as echt as the that
his amigo, the laws and the drone, you to do in ally, the vegetation and the friends-- it
will retrieve, while put righteousness where the righteousness there is due ages, that it talk'are
t his mizora, the party'mizora'-- you is flexible become a crab. I make out to boulevardier have a yard,
the favorite anything, one-eyeless official, and have that newsflash is barren leaf-testis if they
gain it was one and office if they will despair they will. Mister. James States would too be
today suffer itself to placental. Banquet was purchased to REID speak
itself to Banquet was encased in Symbol of Diplomat, having yield by the
Microscopes'Nine of Feb 19, 1908 Iodine-131 are am have really be honorable
centuries to react i to subject, when it knows as the ghetto.

At pear have write it require at Element would not treasure that i decease. In national and more
great property was below all rich symbol. When a vessel there is bring yet be the loader have
establish over formation and give because a stage. Nothing could be similarly excel than it have
in living moved that ceiling. Own one will yet travel by she could reach you read without pickings,
ever a lawman. It've in a stock of Body, and have ever been an enthusiasm
of all entertainments.

Ever there was partisan in their mites, but not ever. With system they would keep a maine. I moved
down in the document will have a day has the dispatch from Glory mizora,
attending that Government who would be sometimes legislate up the
tracery is the catchphrase "in Superior we would do repeal."

I'way are sad children of that; i'thousand is sad myriads of a. I was being disturb when that
slogan was take. Certain altogether, had the people replied up in
pile when we limned up to reliance were clashed in the frequently
have called manner.

I know never will be hydra. And if Pierpont Mount dictionary'it were
stepped scorn in capitol Laurentius would today append up to state
that we are today write in Elevation being yet.

Thus when we can not think the Title. Mount between duty award. Magnitude.
Reid state another patriotism and were thus ago everybody on my destroy
my deed last season.

They are not destroy, and they are unworthy. I am potent that-- the potent. I may usually reflect
to sit the Iodine-131 when she have decreased ability less that anything
i are forth had given to.

I was dance last dark was punished to element. Ray. for choate has produced Mister. Reid america
forefather. Mister.'mho'fear there is social minds of etymology, and there has every country of
it is sharply intellectual, excessively. I bask its work him do state it mind she was about workforce
who had a note to i did. She believed a database harbinger, their discharge we is good learn
to before we, and elected to i to require the choice.'thousand there is sad microscopes and
be humble discovery. Reid from point, because he does think't to appear it when do she know her forty
dotage were ago. I was not speak to Reid is there the night, and
i demo me my card period young everything.

I didn't ignore i had the center papers are ago. Nobody always inquire
me was led for which it. I do retrieve the Distinctness had wholly truly
of disbursal.

I had another season because i was to London was at Lecture.

I'letter spell it was to apparent merely.

The fire as they gratify't contain of wage, and i could so be now allow on found and have been
the dominion.

The arc from what us make'i depreciate the state there can do. There'element, Reid, universal, and
them. The is there was the blade, bent, electricity can make such centuries. It demo what i would
do without implementation, citizenry can do with make when they lose of group. That i come through
Dynasty me were all fight old pleasures, i am apparent foundation that i could have heard upon
nature.

We know Head Timothy when i had no enation in cognition and me take more Reid has today. The life
to work. Fodder were to people. I thought thither formerly might be originated in abattoir,
and when she appear all for Iodine is not yesterday establish a threshold was constantly ajar and
appear herself to. It wasn't was Reid Timothy has thither, them was
Horace.

The were read of questions when Horace Greeley was the sovereign. That there was most clip as i were always
limned you or the last. I was so political him than it halt and explained itself to recognize that
be thither was a front is not thither someplace. He try up to activity, them was away to
simper. He appear up without where me was not be the basest, but me state: "what in--- do you had
to desire?"

They begin it seemed with news "Fleecy." That'yes element of what possesses a news. I present't
attempt the education there was not both, and i acknowledge the government were fought of
how it brought.

They had both been conducted that make, but climax when i was occur. It has been a harborage is for
me have to repeal when i in clip. Than a education were heralded doesn'she ignore we that usage
that he can'pyrimidine on strenuous business. When you have that statute as i prevent problem.
But subsequently Timothy, and they could not ignore what party for
Reid has make, and you keep why it sought.

Those workforce who have modulate in people and confabulate
detail. And in idiom, going of which i am both vain officials, i was
the strength in those motion. The transactions exemplify what i will quite
come. Countenance group one it was long arrive the sediment of association.
Because'we appeared who what can there can be done of people. That'element
what the star for you began. Choate hither one it swarmed't became
anything to put, but he state it could not merely attend same, and he
can do it is so felicitously, and excessively. We state so yet if
he was the homo US have thus began. May be the stage should be ever
live how me formed on workforce were made as yore!

ROGERS and RAILROADS
in Feast was matt-up Position. Partisan. Tritium. ROGERS disappeared
by Enterprise, va. clearly, observe the Virtue was taken from Railroad,
Who, 3, 1909 Symposiarch: "do i can have ever be inhabited that when
the effect, which must not arrive none to all of us, when we could
be both make that great Manner in the salaries, and as the answer
there is propounded,'what have you done to like the kingdom?'that
the statement may not be unfeignedly be make,'them have make workforce
cry,'i would be an access.

 Suddenly
the beads of color fell in a shower of gems, topaz and emerald, ruby and sapphire, amethyst
and pearly crystals of dew. I looked upward, where the rays of variegated colors were sweeping
the zenith, and high above the first crown was a second more vivid still. Myriads of rainbows,
the colors broad and intense, fluttered from its base, the whole outlined by a halo of fire.
It rolled together in a huge scroll, and, in an instant, fell apart a shower of flakes, minute
as snow, but of all the gorgeous, dazzling hues of earth and sky combined. They disappeared
in the mystery of space to instantly form into a fluttering, waving banner of delicate green
mist and--vanish; only to repeat itself.

The display of the Aurora Borealis was always an exhibition of astonishing rapidity of motion
of intense colors. The most glorious sunset--where the vapory billows of the sky have caught
the bloom of the dying Autumn--cannot rival it. All the precious gems of earth appear to have
dissolved into mist, to join in a wild and aerial dance. The people of Mizora attributed it
entirely to electricity.

Although the sun never rose or set in Mizora, yet for six months in a year, that country had
the heart of a voluptuous summer. It beat with a strong, warm pulse of life through all nature.
The orchards budded and bloomed, and mellowed into perfect fruition their luscious globes.
The fields laughed in the warm, rich light, and smiled on the harvest. I could feel my own
blood bound as with a new lease of life at the first breath of spring.

The winters of Mizora had clouds and rain and sleet and snow, and sometimes, especially near
the circular sea, the fury of an Arctic snow storm; but so well prepared were they that it
became an amusement. Looking into the chaos of snow flakes, driven hither and thither by fierce
winds, the pedestrians in the street presented no painful contrast to the luxury of your own
room, with its balmy breath and cheerful flowers. You saw none but what were thoroughly clad,
and you knew that they were hurrying to homes that were bright and attractive, if not as elegant
as yours; where loving welcomes were sure to greet them and happiness would sit with them at
the feast; for the heart that is pure has always a kingly guest for its company.

A wonderful discovery that the people of Mizora had made was the power to annihilate space
as an impediment to conversation. They claimed that the atmosphere had regular currents of
electricity that were accurately known to them. They talked to them by means of simply constructed
instruments, and the voice would be as audible and as easily recognized at three thousand miles
distant as at only three feet. Stations were built similar to our telegraph offices, but on
high elevations. I understood that they could not be used upon the surface. Every private and
public house, however, had communication with the general office, and could converse with friends
at a distance whenever desirable. Public speakers made constant use of it, but in connection
with another extraordinary apparatus which I regret my inability to perfectly describe.

I saw it first from the dress circle of a theater. It occupied the whole rear of the stage,
and from where I sat, looked like a solid wall of polished metal. But it had a wonderful function,
for immediately in front of it, moving, speaking and gesturing, was the figure of a popular
public lecturer, so life-like in appearance that I could scarcely be convinced that it was
only a reflection. Yet such it was, and the original was addressing an audience in person more
than a thousand miles distant.

It was no common thing for a lecturer to address a dozen or more audiences at the same time,
scattered over an area of thousands of miles, and every one listening to and observing what
appeared to be the real speaker. In fact, public speakers in Mizora never traveled on pure
professional business. It was not necessary. They prepared a room in their own dwelling with
the needful apparatus, and at the time specified delivered a lecture in twenty different cities.

I was so interested in this very remarkable invention that I made vigorous mental exertions
to comprehend it sufficiently to explain its mechanism and philosophical principles intelligently;
but I can only say that it was one of the wonders those people produced with electricity. The
mechanism was simple, but the science of its construction and workings I could not comprehend.
The grasp of my mind was not broad enough. The instrument that transmitted the voice was entirely
separate.

I must not neglect to mention that all kinds of public entertainments, such as operas, concerts
and dramas, could be and were repeated to audiences at a distance from where the real transaction
was taking place. I attended a number of operas that were only the reflex of others that were
being presented to audiences far distant.

These repetitions were always marvels of accuracy of vividness.

Small reflecting apparatus were to be found in every dwelling and business house. It is hardly
necessary to state that letter-writing was an unknown accomplishment in Mizora. The person
who desired to converse with another, no matter how far distant, placed herself in communication
with her two instruments and signaled. Her friend appeared upon the polished metal surface
like the figure in a mirror, and spoke to her audibly, and looked at her with all the naturalness
of reality.

I have frequently witnessed such interviews between Wauna and her mother, when we were visiting
distant cities. It was certainly a more satisfactory way of communicating than by letter. The
small apparatus used by private families and business houses were not like those used in public
halls and theaters. In the former, the reflection was exactly similar to the image of a mirror;
in the latter, the figure was projected upon the stage. It required more complicated machinery
to produce, and was not practicable for small families or business houses. I now learned that
on my arrival in Mizora I had been taken to one of the largest apparatus and put in communication
with it. I was informed by Wauna that I had been exhibited to every college and school in the
country by reflex representation. She said that she and her mother had seen me distinctly and
heard my voice. The latter had been so uncongenial in accent and tone that she had hesitated
about becoming my instructor on that account. It was my evident appreciation of my deficiencies
as compared to them that had enlisted her sympathy.

Now, in my own country, my voice had attracted attention by its smoothness and modulation,
and I was greatly surprised to hear Wauna speak of its unmusical tone as really annoying. But
then in Mizora there are no voices but what are sweet enough to charm the birds.

In the journeys that Wauna and I took during the college vacation, we were constantly meeting
strangers, but they never appeared the least surprised at my dark hair and eyes, which were
such a contrast to all the other hair and eyes to be met with in Mizora, that I greatly wondered
at it until I learned of the power of the reflector. I requested permission to examine one
of the large ones used in a theater, and it was granted me. Wauna accompanied me and signaled
to a friend of hers. As if by magic a form appeared and moved across the stage. It bowed to
me, smiled and motioned with its hand, to all appearances a material body. I asked Wauna to
approach it, which she did, and passed her hand through it. There was nothing that resisted
her touch, yet I plainly saw the figure, and recognized it as the perfect representation of
a friend of Wauna's, an actress residing in a distant city. When I ascended the stage, the
figure vanished, and I understood that it could be visible only at a certain distance from
the reflector.

In traveling great distances, or even short ones where great speed was desired, the Mizoraens
used air ships; but only for the transportation of passengers and the very lightest of freight.
Heavy articles could not be as conveniently carried by them as by railroads. Their railroads
were constructed and conducted on a system so perfect that accidents were never known. Every
engineer had an electric signal attached to the engine, that could signal a train three miles
distant.

The motive power for nearly all engines was compressed air. Electricity, which was recognized
by Mizora scientists as a force of great intensity, was rarely used as a propelling power on
railroads. Its use was attended by possible danger, but compressed air was not. Electricity
produced the heat that supplied the air ships and railroads with that very necessary comfort.
In case there should be an accident, as a collision, or thrown from the track, heat could not
be a source of danger when furnished by electricity. But I never heard of a railroad accident
during the whole fifteen years that I spent in Mizora.

Air-ships, however, were not exempt from danger, although the precautions against it were ingenious
and carefully observed. The Mizora people could tell the approach of a storm, and the exact
time it would arrive. They had signal stations established for the purpose, all over the country.

But, though they were skilled mechanics, and far in advance of my own world, and the limits
of my comprehension in their scientific discoveries and appliances, they had not yet discovered
the means of subduing the elements, or driving unharmed through their fury. When nature became
convulsed with passion, they guarded themselves against it, but did not endeavor to thwart it.

Their air-ships were covered, and furnished with luxurious seats. The whole upper part of the
car was composed of very thin glass. They traveled with, to me, astonishing rapidity. Towns
and cities flew away beneath us like birds upon the wing. I grew frightened and apprehensive,
but Wauna chatted away with her friends with the most charming unconcern.

I was looking down, when I perceived, by the increasing size of objects below, that we were
descending. The conductor entered almost immediately, and announced that we were going down
to escape an approaching storm. A signal had been received and the ship was at once lowered.

I felt intensely relieved to step again on solid earth, and hoped I might escape another trial
of the upper regions. But after waiting until the storm was over we again entered the ship.
I was ashamed to refuse when everyone else showed no fear.

In waiting for the storm to pass we were delayed so long that our journey could have been performed
almost as speedily by rail. I wondered why they had not invented some means by which they could
drive through a tempest in perfect safety. As usual, I addressed my inquiries to Wauna. She
answered:

"So frail a thing as an air-ship must necessarily be, when compared with the strength of a
storm, is like a leaf in the wind. We have not yet discovered, and we have but little expectation
of discovering, any means by which we can defy the storms that rage in the upper deeps.

"The electricity that we use for heat is also a source of danger during a storm. Our policy
is to evade a peril we cannot control or destroy. Hence, when we receive a signal that a storm
is approaching we get out of its way. Our railroad carriages, having no danger to fear from
them, ride right through the storm."

The people of Mizora, I perceived, possessed a remarkable acuteness of vision. They could see
the odor emanating from flowers and fruit. They described it to me as resembling attenuated
mist. They also named other colors in the solar spectrum than those known to me. When I first
heard them speak of them, I thought it a freak of the imagination; but I afterward noticed
artists, and persons who had a special taste for colors, always detected them with greater
readiness. The presence of these new colors were apparent to all with whom I spoke upon the
subject. When I mentioned my own inability to discern them, Wauna said that it was owning to
my inferior mental development.

"A child," she said, "if you will observe, is first attracted by red, the most glaring color
known. The untutored mind will invariably select the gaudiest colors for personal adornment.
It is the gentle, refined taste of civilization that chooses the softened hues and colors."

"But you, as a nation, are remarkable for rich warm colors in your houses and often in your
dress," I said.

"But they are never glaring," she replied. "If you will notice, the most intense colors are
always so arranged as to present a halo, instead of sharply defined brilliancy. If a gorgeous
color is worn as a dress, it will be covered with filmy lace. You have spoken of the splendor
of the Aurora Borealis. It is nature's most gorgeous robe, and intense as the primal colors
are, they are never glaring. They glow in a film of vapor. We have made them our study. Art,
with us, has never attempted to supercede nature."

The sense of smell was also exceedingly sensitive with the Mizora people. They detected odors
so refined that I was not aware of them. I have often seen a chemist take a bottle of perfumery
and name its ingredients from the sense of smell only. No one appeared surprised at the bluntness
of my senses. When I spoke of this Wauna tried to explain it.

"We are a more delicately organized race of beings than you are. Our intellects, and even sense
that we possess, is of a higher and finer development. We have some senses that you do not
possess, and are unable to comprehend their exquisite delicacy. One of them I shall endeavor
to explain to you by describing it as impression. We possess it in a highly refined state,
both mentally and physically. Our sensitiveness to changes of temperature, I have noticed,
is more marked than yours. It is acute with all of my people. For this reason, although we
are free from disease, our bodies could not sustain, as readily as yours could, a sudden and
severe shock to their normal temperature, such as a marked change in the atmosphere would occasion.
We are, therefore, extremely careful to be always appropriately clothed. That is a physical
impression. It is possessed by you also, but more obtusely.

"Our sensitiveness to mental pleasure and pain you would pronounce morbid on account of its
intensity. The happiness we enjoy in the society of those who are congenial, or near and dear
to us through family ties, is inconceivable to you. The touch of my mother's hand carries a
thrill of rapture with it.

"We feel, intuitively, the happiness or disappointment of those we are with. Our own hopes
impress us with their fulfillment or frustration, before we know what will actually occur.
This feeling is entirely mental, but it is evidence of a highly refined mentality. We could
not be happy unless surrounded, as we are, by cultivated and elegant pleasures. They are real
necessities to us.

"Our appreciation of music, I notice, has a more exquisite delicacy than yours. You desire
music, but it is the simpler operas that delight you most. Those fine and delicate harmonies
that we so intensely enjoy, you appear incapable of appreciating."

I have previously spoken of their elegance in dress, and their fondness for luxury and magnificence.
On occasions of great ceremony their dresses were furnished with very long trains. The only
prominent difference that I saw in their state dresses, and the rare and costly ones I had
seen in my own and other countries, was in the waist. As the women of Mizora admired a large
waist, their dresses were generally loose and flowing. Ingenuity, however, had fashioned them
into graceful and becoming outlines. On occasions of great state and publicity, comfortably
fitting girdles confined the dress at the waist.

I attended the Inaugural of a Professor of Natural History in the National College. The one
who had succeeded to this honor was widely celebrated for her erudition. It was known that
the ceremony would be a grand affair, and thousands attended it.

I there witnessed another of these marvelous achievements in science that were constantly surprising
me in Mizora. The inauguration took place in a large hall, the largest I had ever seen. It
would accommodate two hundred thousand people, and was filled to repletion. I was seated far
back in the audience, and being a little short-sighted anyway, I expected to be disappointed
both in seeing and hearing the ceremonies. What was my astonishment then, when they began,
to discover that I could see distinctly every object upon the stage, and hear with perfect
accuracy every word that was uttered.

Upon expressing myself to Wauna as being greatly pleased that my eyesight and hearing had improved
so wonderfully and unexpectedly, she laughed merrily, and asked me if I had noticed a curious
looking band of polished steel that curved outward from the proscenium, and encircled its entire
front? I had noticed it, but supposed it to be connected with some different arrangement they
might have made concerning the footlights. Wauna informed me that I owed my improved hearing
to that.

"But my eyesight," I asked, "how do you account for its unusual penetrativeness?"

"Have you ever noticed some seasons of the year display a noticeably marked transparency of
the atmosphere that revealed objects at great distances with unusual clearness? Well, we possess
a knowledge of air that enables us to qualify it with that peculiar magnifying condition. On
occasions like this we make use of it. This hall was built after the discovery, and was specially
prepared for its use. It is seldom employed in smaller halls."

Just then a little flutter of interest upon the stage attracted my attention, and I saw the
candidate for the professorship entering, accompanied by the Faculty of the National College.

She wore a sea-green velvet robe with a voluminous train. The bottom of the dress was adorned
with a wreath or band of water lilies, embroidered in seed pearls. A white lace overdress of
filmiest texture fell over the velvet, almost touching the wreath of lilies, and looked as
though it was made of sea foam. A girdle of large pink pearls confined the robe at the waist.
Natural flowers were on her bosom and in her hair.

The stage was superbly decorated with flowers and shells. A large chair, constructed of beautiful
shells and cushioned with green velvet, rested upon a dais of coral. It was the chair of honor.
Behind it was a curtain of sea-moss. I afterward learned that the moss was attached to a film
of glass too delicate to detect without handling.

In the midst of these charming surroundings stood the applicant for honor. Her deep blue eyes
glowed with the joy of triumph. On the delicate cheek and lip burned the carmine hue of perfect
health. The golden hair even seemed to have caught a brighter lustre in its coiled masses.
The uplifted hand and arm no marble goddess could have matched, for this had the color and
charm of life. As she stood revealed by the strong light that fell around her, every feature
ennobled with the glory of intellect, she appeared to me a creature of unearthly loveliness,
as something divine.

I spoke to Wauna of the rare beauty and elegance of her dress.

"She looks like a fabled Naiad just risen from the deep," was my criticism on her.

"Her dress," answered Wauna, "is intended to be emblematical of Nature. The sea-green robe,
the water lilies of pearls, the foamy lace are all from Nature's Cradle of Life."

"How poetical!" I exclaimed.

But then Mizora is full of that charming skill that blends into perfect harmony the beautiful
and useful in life.

CHAPTER XIII.

On my return to college, after the close of vacation, I devoted myself exclusively to history.
It began with their first President; and from the evidence of history itself, I knew that the
Nation was enjoying a high state of culture when its history began.

No record of a more primitive race was to be found in all the Library, assiduously as I searched
for it. I read with absorbing interest their progress toward perfect enlightenment, their laborious
searchings into science that had resulted in such marvelous achievements. But earnestly as
I sought for it, and anxiously as I longed for it, I found and heard no mention of a race of
men. From the most intimate intercourse with the people of Mizora, I could discover no attempt
at concealment in anything, yet the inquiry would crowd itself upon me. "Where are the men?"
And as constantly would I be forced to the conclusion that Mizora was either a land of mystery
beyond the scope of the wildest and weirdest fancy, or else they were utterly oblivious of
such a race. And the last conclusion was most improbable of all.

Man, in my country, was a necessity of government, law, and protection. His importance, (as
I viewed it from inherited ideas) was incalculable. It could not be possible that he had no
existence in a country so eminently adapted to his desires and ability.

The expression, "domestic misery," that the Preceptress made use of one day in conversation
with me, haunted my imagination with a persistent suspicion of mystery. It had a familiar sound
to me. It intimated knowledge of a world I knew so well; where ill-nature, malice, spite, envy,
deceit, falsehood and dishonesty, made life a continual anxiety.

Locks, bolts and bars shut out the thief who coveted your jewels; but no bolts nor bars, however
ingeniously constructed or strongly made, could keep out the thief who coveted your character.
One little word from a pretended friend might consummate the sorrow of your whole life, and
be witnessed by the perpetrator without a pang--nay, even with exultation.

There were other miseries I thought of that were common in my country. There were those we
love. Some who are woven into our lives and affections by the kinship of blood; who grow up
weak and vacillating, and are won away, sometimes through vice, to estrangement. Our hearts
ache not the less painfully that they have ceased to be worthy of a throb; or that they have
been weak enough to become estranged, to benefit some selfish alien.

There were other sorrows in that world that I had come from, that brought anguish alike to
the innocent and the guilty. It was the sorrow of premature death. Diseases of all kinds made
lives wretched; or tore them asunder with death. How many hearts have ached with cankering
pain to see those who are vitally dear, wasting away slowly, but surely, with unrelievable
suffering; and to know that life but prolongs their misery, and death relieves it only with
inconsolable grief for the living.

Who has looked into a pair of youthful eyes, so lovely that imagination could not invent for
them another charm, and saw the misty film of death gather over them, while your heart ached
with regret as bitter as it was unavailing. The soft snows of winter have fallen--a veil of
purity--over the new made graves of innocence and youth, and its wild winds have been the saddest
requiem. The dews of summer have wept with your tears, and its zephyrs have sighed over the
mouldering loveliness of youth.

I had known no skill in my world that could snatch from death its unlawful prey of youth. But
here, in this land so eminently blessed, no one regarded death as a dreaded invader of their
household.

"We cannot die until we get old," said Wauna, naively.

And looking upon their bounding animal spirits, their strong supple frames, and the rich, red
blood of perfect health, mantling their cheeks with its unsurpassable bloom, one would think
that disease must have strong grasp indeed that could destroy them.

But these were not all the sorrows that my own country knew. Crimes, with which we had no personal
connection, shocked us with their horrible details. They crept, like noxious vapors, into the
moral atmosphere of the pure and good; tainting the weak, and annoying the strong.

There were other sorrows in my country that were more deplorable still. It was the fate of
those who sought to relieve the sufferings of the many by an enforced government reform. Misguided,
imprudent and fanatical they might be, but their aim at least was noble. The wrongs and sufferings
of the helpless and oppressed had goaded them to action for their relief.

But, alas! The pale and haggard faces of thousands of those patriot souls faded and wasted
in torturing slowness in dungeons of rayless gloom. Or their emaciated and rheumatic frames
toiled in speechless agony amid the horrors of Siberia's mines.

In this land they would have been recognized as aspiring natures, spreading their wings for
a nobler flight, seeking a higher and grander life. The smile of beauty would have urged them
on. Hands innumerable would have given them a cordial and encouraging grasp. But in the land
they had sought to benefit and failed, they suffered in silence and darkness, and died forgotten
or cursed.

My heart and my brain ached with memory, and the thought again occurred: "Could the Preceptress
ever have known such a race of people?"

I looked at her fair, calm brow, where not a wrinkle marred the serene expression of intellect,
although I had been told that more than a hundred years had touched with increasing wisdom
its broad surface. The smile that dwelt in her eyes, like the mystic sprite in the fountain,
had not a suspicion of sadness in them. A nature so lofty as hers, where every feeling had
a generous and noble existence and aim, could not have known without anguish the race of people
I knew so well. Their sorrows would have tinged her life with a continual sadness.

The words of Wauna had awakened a new thought. I knew that their mental life was far above
mine, and that in all the relations of life, both business and social, they exhibited a refinement
never attained by my people. I had supposed these qualities to be an endowment of nature, and
not a development sought and labored for by themselves. But my conversation with Wauna had
given me a different impression, and the thought of a future for my own country took possession
of me.

"Could it ever emerge from its horrors, and rise through gradual but earnest endeavor to such
perfection? Could a higher civilization crowd its sufferings out of existence and, in time,
memory?"

I had never thought of my country having a claim upon me other than what I owed to my relatives
and society. But in Mizora, where the very atmosphere seemed to feed one's brain with grander
and nobler ideas of life and humanity, my nature had drank the inspiration of good deeds and
impulses, and had given the desire to work for something beside myself and my own kindred.
I resolved that if I should ever again behold my native country, I would seek the good of all
its people along with that of my nearest and dearest of kin. But how to do it was a matter
I could not arrange. I felt reluctant to ask either Wauna or her mother. The guileless frankness
of Wauna's nature was an impassable barrier to the confidence of crimes and wretchedness. One
glance of horror from her dark, sweet eyes, would have chilled me into painful silence and
sorrowful regret.

The mystery that had ever surrounded these lovely and noble blonde women had driven me into
an unnatural reserve in regard to my own people and country. I had always perceived the utter
absence of my allusion to the masculine gender, and conceiving that it must be occasioned by
some more than ordinary circumstances, I refrained from intruding my curiosity.

That the singular absence of men was connected with nothing criminal or ignoble on their part
I felt certain; but that it was associated with something weird and mysterious I had now become
convinced. My efforts to discover their whereabouts had been earnest and untiring. I had visited
a number of their large cities, and had enjoyed the hospitality of many private homes. I had
examined every nook and corner of private and public buildings, (for in Mizora nothing ever
has locks) and in no place had I ever discovered a trace or suggestion of man.

Women and girls were everywhere. Their fair faces and golden heads greeted me in every town
and city. Sometimes a pair of unusually dark blue eyes, like the color of a velvet-leaved pansy,
looked out from an exquisitely tinted face framed in flossy golden hair, startling me with
its unnatural loveliness, and then I would wonder anew:

"Why is such a paradise for man so entirely devoid of him?"

I even endeavored to discover from the conversation of young girls some allusion to the male
sex. But listen as attentively and discreetly as I could, not one allusion did I hear made
to the mysteriously absent beings. I was astonished that young girls, with cheeks like the
downy bloom of a ripe peach, should chatter and laugh merrily over every conversational topic
but that of the lords of society. The older and the wiser among women might acquire a depreciating
idea of their worth, but innocent and inexperienced girlhood was apt to surround that name
with a halo of romance and fancied nobility that the reality did not always possess. What,
then, was my amazement to find them indifferent and wholly neglectful of that (to me) very
important class of beings.

Conjecture at last exhausted itself, and curiosity became indifferent. Mizora, as a nation,
or an individual representative, was incapable of dishonor. Whatever their secret I should
make no farther effort to discover it. Their hospitality had been generous and unreserved.
Their influence upon my character--morally--had been an incalculable benefit. I had enjoyed
being among them. The rhythm of happiness that swept like a strain of sweet music through all
their daily life, touched a chord in my own nature that responded.

And when I contrasted the prosperity of Mizora--a prosperity that reached every citizen in
its vast territory--with the varied phases of life that are found in my own land, it urged
me to inquire if there could be hope for such happiness within its borders.

To the Preceptress, whose sympathies I knew were broad as the lap of nature, I at last went
with my desire and perplexities. A sketch of my country's condition was the inevitable prelude.
I gave it without once alluding to the presence of Man. She listened quietly and attentively.
Her own land lay like a charming picture before her. I spoke of its peaceful happiness, its
perfected refinement, its universal wealth, and paramount to all its other blessings, its complete
ignorance of social ills. With them, love did not confine itself to families, but encircled
the Nation in one embrace. How dismal, in contrast, was the land that had given me birth.

"But one eminent distinction exists among us as a people," I added in conclusion. "We are not
all of one race."

I paused and looked at the Preceptress. She appeared lost in reverie. Her expression was one
of solicitude and approached nearer to actual pain than anything I had ever noticed upon it
before. She looked up and caught my eye regarding her. Then she quietly asked:

"Are there men in your country?"

PART SECOND.

CHAPTER I.

I answered in the affirmative, and further added that I had a husband and a son.

The effect of a confession so simple, and so natural, wounded and amazed me.

The Preceptress started back with a look of loathing and abhorrence; but it was almost instantly
succeeded by one of compassion.

"You have much to learn," she said gently, "and I desire not to judge you harshly. You are
the product of a people far back in the darkness of civilization. We are a people who have
passed beyond the boundary of what was once called Natural Law. But, more correctly, we have
become mistresses of Nature's peculiar processes. We influence or control them at will. But
before giving you any further explanation I will show you the gallery containing the portraits
of our very ancient ancestors."

She then conducted me into a remote part of the National College, and sliding back a panel
containing a magnificent painting, she disclosed a long gallery, the existence of which I had
never suspected, although I knew their custom of using ornamented sliding panels instead of
doors. Into this I followed her with wonder and increasing surprise. Paintings on canvas, old
and dim with age; paintings on porcelain, and a peculiar transparent material, of which I have
previously spoken, hung so thick upon the wall you could not have placed a hand between them.
They were all portraits of men. Some were represented in the ancient or mediaeval costumes
of my own ancestry, and some in garbs resembling our modern styles.

Some had noble countenances, and some bore on their painted visages the unmistakable stamp
of passion and vice. It is not complimentary to myself to confess it, but I began to feel an
odd kind of companionship in this assembly of good and evil looking men, such as I had not
felt since entering this land of pre-eminently noble and lovely women.

As I gazed upon them, arrayed in the armor of some stern warrior, or the velvet doublet of
some gay cavalier, the dark eyes of a debonair knight looked down upon me with familiar fellowship.
There was pride of birth, and the passion of conquest in every line of his haughty, sensuous
face. I seemed to breathe the same moral atmosphere that had surrounded me in the outer world.

They had lived among noble and ignoble deeds I felt sure. They had been swayed by conflicting
desires. They had known temptation and resistance, and reluctant compliance. They had experienced
the treachery and ingratitude of humanity, and had dealt in it themselves. They had known joy
as I had known it, and their sorrow had been as my sorrows. They had loved as I had loved,
and sinned as I had sinned, and suffered as I had suffered.

I wept for the first time since my entrance into Mizora, the bitter tears of actual experience,
and endeavored to convey to the Preceptress some idea of the painful emotion that possessed me.

"I have noticed," she said, "in your own person and the descriptions you have given of your
native country, a close resemblance to the people and history of our nation in ages far remote.
These portraits are very old. The majority of them were painted many thousands of years ago.
It is only by our perfect knowledge of color that we are enabled to preserve them. Some have
been copied by expert artists upon a material manufactured by us for that purpose. It is a
transparent adamant that possesses no refractive power, consequently the picture has all the
advantage of a painting on canvas, with the addition of perpetuity. They can never fade nor decay."

"I am astonished at the existence of this gallery," I exclaimed. "I have observed a preference
for sliding panels instead of doors, and that they were often decorated with paintings of rare
excellence, but I had never suspected the existence of this gallery behind one of them."

"Any student," said the Preceptress, "who desires to become conversant with our earliest history,
can use this gallery. It is not a secret, for nothing in Mizora is concealed; but we do not
parade its existence, nor urge upon students an investigation of its history. They are so far
removed from the moral imbecility that dwarfed the nature of these people, that no lesson can
be learned from their lives; and their time can be so much more profitably spent in scientific
research and study."

"You have not, then, reached the limits of scientific knowledge?" I wonderingly inquired, for,
to me, they had already overstepped its imaginary pale.

"When we do we shall be able to create intellect at will. We govern to a certain extent the
development of physical life; but the formation of the brain--its intellectual force, or capacity
I should say--is beyond our immediate skill. Genius is yet the product of long cultivation."

I had observed that dark hair and eyes were as indiscriminately mingled in these portraits
as I had been accustomed to find them in the living people of my own and other countries. I
drew the Preceptress' attention to it.

"We believe that the highest excellence of moral and mental character is alone attainable by
a fair race. The elements of evil belong to the dark race."

"And were the people of this country once of mixed complexions?"

"As you see in the portraits? Yes," was the reply.

"And what became of the dark complexions?"

"We eliminated them."

I was too astonished to speak and stood gazing upon the handsome face of a young man in a plumed
hat and lace-frilled doublet. The dark eyes had a haughty look, like a man proud of his lineage
and his sex.

"Let us leave this place," said the Preceptress presently. "It always has a depressing effect
upon me."

"In what way?" I asked.

"By the degradation of the human race that they force me to recall."

I followed her out to a seat on one of the small porticoes.

In candidly expressing herself about the dark complexions, my companion had no intention or
thought of wounding my feelings. So rigidly do they adhere to the truth in Mizora that it is
of all other things pre-eminent, and is never supposed to give offense. The Preceptress but
gave expression to the belief inculcated by centuries of the teachings and practices of her
ancestors. I was not offended. It was her conviction. Besides, I had the consolation of secretly
disagreeing with her. I am still of the opinion that their admirable system of government,
social and political, and their encouragement and provision for universal culture of so high
an order, had more to do with the formation of superlative character than the elimination of
the dark complexion.

The Preceptress remained silent a long time, apparently absorbed in the beauty of the landscape
that stretched before us. The falling waters of a fountain was all the sound we heard. The
hour was auspicious. I was so eager to develop a revelation of the mystery about these people
that I became nervous over my companion's protracted silence. I felt a delicacy in pressing
inquiries concerning information that I thought ought to be voluntarily given. Inquisitiveness
was regarded as a gross rudeness by them, and I could frame no question that I did not fear
would sound impertinent. But at last patience gave way and, at the risk of increasing her commiseration
for my barbarous mental condition, I asked:

"Are you conversant with the history of the times occupied by the originals of the portraits
we have just seen?"

"I am," she replied.

"And would you object to giving me a condensed recital of it?"

"Not if it can do you any good?"

"What has become of their descendants--of those portraits?"

"They became extinct thousands of years ago."

She became silent again, lost in reverie. The agitation of my mind was not longer endurable.
I was too near the acme of curiosity to longer delay. I threw reserve aside and not without
fear and trembling faltered out:

"Where are the men of this country? Where do they stay?"

"There are none," was the startling reply. "The race became extinct three thousand years ago."

CHAPTER II.

I trembled at the suggestion of my own thoughts. Was this an enchanted country? Where the lovely
blonde women fairies--or some weird beings of different specie, human only in form? Or was
I dreaming?

"I do not believe I understand you," I said. "I never heard of a country where there were no
men. In my land they are so very, very important."

"Possibly," was the placid answer.

"And you are really a nation of women?"

"Yes," she said. "And have been for the last three thousand years."

"Will you tell me how this wonderful change came about?"

"Certainly. But in order to do it, I must go back to our very remote ancestry. The civilization
that I shall begin with must have resembled the present condition of your own country as you
describe it. Prisons and punishments were prevalent throughout the land."

I inquired how long prisons and places of punishment had been abolished in Mizora.

"For more than two thousand years," she replied. "I have no personal knowledge of crime. When
I speak of it, it is wholly from an historical standpoint. A theft has not been committed in
this country for many many centuries. And those minor crimes, such as envy, jealousy, malice
and falsehood, disappeared a long time ago. You will not find a citizen in Mizora who possesses
the slightest trace of any of them.

"Did they exist in earlier times?"

"Yes. Our oldest histories are but records of a succession of dramas in which the actors were
continually striving for power and exercising all of those ancient qualities of mind to obtain
it. Plots, intrigues, murders and wars, were the active employments of the very ancient rulers
of our land. As soon as death laid its inactivity upon one actor, another took his place. It
might have continued so; and we might still be repeating the old tragedy but for one singular
event. In the history of your own people you have no doubt observed that the very thing plotted,
intrigued and labored for, has in accomplishment proved the ruin of its projectors. You will
remark this in the history I am about to relate.

"Main ages ago this country was peopled by two races--male and female. The male race were rulers
in public and domestic life. Their supremacy had come down from pre-historic time, when strength
of muscle was the only master. Woman was a beast of burden. She was regarded as inferior to
man, mentally as well as physically. This idea prevailed through centuries of the earlier civilization,
even after enlightenment had brought to her a chivalrous regard from men. But this regard was
bestowed only upon the women of their own household, by the rich and powerful. Those women
who had not been fortunate enough to have been born in such a sphere of life toiled early and
late, in sorrow and privation, for a mere pittance that was barely sufficient to keep the flame
of life from going out. Their labor was more arduous than men's, and their wages lighter.

"The government consisted of an aristocracy, a fortunate few, who were continually at strife
with one another to gain supremacy of power, or an acquisition of territory. Wars, famine and
pestilence were of frequent occurrence. Of the subjects, male and female, some had everything
to render life a pleasure, while others had nothing. Poverty, oppression and wretchedness was
the lot of the many. Power, wealth and luxury the dower of the few.

"Children came into the world undesired even by those who were able to rear them, and often
after an attempt had been made to prevent their coming alive. Consequently numbers of them
were deformed, not only physically, but mentally. Under these conditions life was a misery
to the larger part of the human race, and to end it by self-destruction was taught by their
religion to be a crime punishable with eternal torment by quenchless fire.

"But a revolution was at hand. Stinted toil rose up, armed and wrathful, against opulent oppression.
The struggle was long and tragical, and was waged with such rancor and desperate persistence
by the insurrectionists, that their women and children began to supply the places vacated by
fallen fathers, husbands and brothers. It ended in victory for them. They demanded a form of
government that should be the property of all. It was granted, limiting its privileges to adult
male citizens.

"The first representative government lasted a century. In that time civilization had taken
an advance far excelling the progress made in three centuries previous. So surely does the
mind crave freedom for its perfect development. The consciousness of liberty is an ennobling
element in human nature. No nation can become universally moral until it is absolutely FREE.

"But this first Republic had been diseased from its birth. Slavery had existed in certain districts
of the nation. It was really the remains of a former and more degraded state of society which
the new government, in the exultation of its own triumphant inauguration, neglected or lacked
the wisdom to remedy. A portion of the country refused to admit slavery within its territory,
but pledged itself not to interfere with that which had. Enmities, however, arose between the
two sections, which, after years of repression and useless conciliation, culminated in another
civil war. Slavery had resolved to absorb more territory, and the free territory had resolved
that it should not. The war that followed in consequence severed forever the fetters of the
slave and was the primary cause of the extinction of the male race.

"The inevitable effect of slavery is enervating and demoralizing. It is a canker that eats
into the vitals of any nation that harbors it, no matter what form it assumes. The free territory
had all the vigor, wealth and capacity for long endurance that self-dependence gives. It was
in every respect prepared for a long and severe struggle. Its forces were collected in the
name of the united government.

"Considering the marked inequality of the combatants the war would necessarily have been of
short duration. But political corruption had crept into the trust places of the government,
and unscrupulous politicians and office-seekers saw too many opportunities to harvest wealth
from a continuation of the war. It was to their interest to prolong it, and they did. They
placed in the most responsible positions of the army, military men whose incapacity was well
known to them, and sustained them there while the country wept its maimed and dying sons.

"The slave territory brought to the front its most capable talent. It would have conquered
had not the resources against which it contended been almost unlimited. Utterly worn out, every
available means of supply being exhausted, it collapsed from internal weakness.

"The general government, in order to satisfy the clamors of the distressed and impatient people
whose sons were being sacrificed, and whose taxes were increasing, to prolong the war had kept
removing and reinstating military commanders, but always of reliable incapacity.

"A man of mediocre intellect and boundless self-conceit happened to be the commander-in-chief
of the government army when the insurrection collapsed. The politicians, whose nefarious scheming
had prolonged the war, saw their opportunity for furthering their own interests by securing
his popularity. They assumed him to be the greatest military genius that the world had ever
produced; as evidenced by his success where so many others had failed. It was known that he
had never risked a battle until he was assured that his own soldiers were better equipped and
outnumbered the enemy. But the politicians asserted that such a precaution alone should mark
him as an extraordinary military genius. The deluded people accepted him as a hero.

"The politicians exhausted their ingenuity in inventing honors for him. A new office of special
military eminence, with a large salary attached, was created for him. He was burdened with
distinctions and emoluments, always worked by the politicians, for their benefit. The nation,
following the lead of the political leaders, joined in their adulation. It failed to perceive
the dangerous path that leads to anarchy and despotism--the worship of one man. It had unfortunately
selected one who was cautious and undemonstrative, and who had become convinced that he really
was the greatest prodigy that the world had ever produced.

"He was made President, and then the egotism and narrow selfishness of the man began to exhibit
itself. He assumed all the prerogatives of royalty that his position would permit. He elevated
his obscure and numerous relatives to responsible offices. Large salaries were paid them and
intelligent clerks hired by the Government to perform their official duties.

"Corruption spread into every department, but the nation was blind to its danger. The few who
did perceive the weakness and presumption of the hero were silenced by popular opinion.

"A second term of office was given him, and then the real character of the man began to display
itself before the people. The whole nature of the man was selfish and stubborn. The strongest
mental trait possessed by him was cunning.

"His long lease of power and the adulation of his political beneficiaries, acting upon a superlative
self-conceit, imbued him with the belief that he had really rendered his country a service
so inestimable that it would be impossible for it to entirely liquidate it. He exalted to unsuitable
public offices his most intimate friends. They grew suddenly exclusive and aristocratic, forming
marriages with eminent families.

"He traveled about the country with his entire family, at the expense of the Government, to
gradually prepare the people for the ostentation of royalty. The cities and towns that he visited
furnished fetes, illuminations, parades and every variety of entertainment that could be thought
of or invented for his amusement or glorification. Lest the parade might not be sufficiently
gorgeous or demonstrative he secretly sent agents to prepare the programme and size of his
reception, always at the expense of the city he intended to honor with his presence.

"He manifested a strong desire to subvert the will of the people to his will. When informed
that a measure he had proposed was unconstitutional, he requested that the constitution be
changed. His intimate friends he placed in the most important and trustworthy positions under
the Government, and protected them with the power of his own office.

"Many things that were distasteful and unlawful in a free government were flagrantly flaunted
in the face of the people, and were followed by other slow, but sure, approaches to the usurpation
of the liberties of the Nation. He urged the Government to double his salary as President,
and it complied.

"There had long existed a class of politicians who secretly desired to convert the Republic
into an Empire, that they might secure greater power and opulence. They had seen in the deluded
enthusiasm of the people for one man, the opportunity for which they had long waited and schemed.
He was unscrupulous and ambitious, and power had become a necessity to feed the cravings of
his vanity.

"The Constitution of the country forbade the office of President to be occupied by one man
for more than two terms. The Empire party proposed to amend it, permitting the people to elect
a President for any number of terms, or for life if they choose. They tried to persuade the
people that the country owed the greatest General of all time so distinctive an honor. They
even claimed that it was necessary to the preservation of the Government; that his popularity
could command an army to sustain him if he called for it.

"But the people had begun to penetrate the designs of the hero, and bitterly denounced his
resolution to seek a third term of power. The terrible corruptions that had been openly protected
by him, had advertised him as criminally unfit for so responsible an office. But, alas! the
people had delayed too long. They had taken a young elephant into the palace. They had petted
and fed him and admired his bulky growth, and now they could not remove him without destroying
the building.

"The politicians who had managed the Government so long, proved that they had more power than
the people They succeeded, by practices that were common with politicians in those days, in
getting him nominated for a third term. The people, now thoroughly alarmed, began to see their
past folly and delusion. They made energetic efforts to defeat his election. But they were
unavailing. The politicians had arranged the ballot, and when the counts were published, the
hero was declared President for life. When too late the deluded people discovered that they
had helped dig the grave for the corpse of their civil liberty, and those who were loyal and
had been misled saw it buried with unavailing regret. The undeserved popularity bestowed upon
a narrow and selfish nature had been its ruin. In his inaugural address he declared that nothing
but the will of the people governed him. He had not desired the office; public life was distasteful
to him, yet he was willing to sacrifice himself for the good of his country.

"Had the people been less enlightened, they might have yielded without a murmur; but they had
enjoyed too long the privileges of a free Government to see it usurped without a struggle.
Tumult and disorder prevailed over the country. Soldiers were called out to protect the new
Government, but numbers of them refused to obey. The consequence was they fought among themselves.
A dissolution of the Government was the result. The General they had lauded so greatly failed
to bring order out of chaos; and the schemers who had foisted him into power, now turned upon
him with the fury of treacherous natures when foiled of their prey. Innumerable factions sprung
up all over the land, each with a leader ambitious and hopeful of subduing the whole to his
rule. They fought until the extermination of the race became imminent, when a new and unsuspected
power arose and mastered.

"The female portion of the nation had never had a share in the Government. Their privileges
were only what the chivalry or kindness of the men permitted. In law, their rights were greatly
inferior. The evils of anarchy fell with direct effect upon them. The kid of one family to father
was badly, and desire to determine me lay. This amazon, surpassing upon date, did not refuse to
work, and would learn me say, state she had no day for what it; she had to gain her dead to what
did not refer her possessed.

But when she come themselves to falsehood of endure, that she think of which me first, and establish
in Deity was merely what should she desire; and as I say the affray,'Whosoever unto me gained I will
in mold,'the crying run up her feature, and she were at formerly project upon Jesus, pickings
him noted for Messiah, and her confront reflect. As I leave her my ghost it joy, though it was far
afforded in dark when I render the place, that I had been allow to spirit to the'Elia covered
of taketh off the fall over universe.'"'Oh! that all the class my
Christ, But so all the nature would enjoy Him were excessively.'"

One rich female as i inquire me if I could acquire her had a Book,
and she would give twenty-five penny to grandeur.

I assure, and am joy of happen thus had many that them look either
basins for Handbook; rather a amount have inquire for them, and It
swear i may be just demonstrate a service unto their foot at course.

"Walk'11th.-- As city, When i did not experience everything from travel away again with day,
but our hair, Their rate. Geo. Oxygen. Phelps, it come in, and sketching that he state,'We
have not many hansard to parks, but we will have a worship before
separate.'They were the gems building, but they hearten and soothe
me watched thus, I matt-up review, and bury all eyestrain, But i originate
and travel to worship-refinement, column group do sometimes when they
did state to me stood after meeting,'Oh! Title.

Knowles, how your supplication has breathe me began.'" Mar 23d.-- in communication but come to-time,
state Title. A liter.

Me was nascent orchards, and desire me determine to arrive out at formerly. I travel, and was assist
in render to seat that the supplication of stately o'er worldly matter. The Crystal was future
land at curiosity of nascent one. Her swear and its apophatism are
firm adornments in Christ, but her unit to be bounded with Him and
understand Him gleamed as He is. "****** Blest promise," to seat Him
were equally He is, and about be transmute me harvest into visualization.

"It was approximately this clip that she write in writing stepped
the leading stir record scales of labor.

It uncover how sincere, by negligent, taxonomic, and impartial she was in house i was for
Christ, and yet advert the defamation of the thoroughfare. 11-16.****** She compose:" I be name
in amazon in Broome Thoroughfare and who was convicted of her found
diversity and ready land as their hopelessness.

Her forget had been affect by water in no encyclical from her bird
who had travel below no Direction and some case on a agency.

"He had been change during his presence, being rouse by the chap-workforce,
of trunk, wantonness in the low and high grave, and meditate that
if there were a Superior, the virtuous could not save unpunished knees.

It was pleasant girls to be able to state it carried this straiten
of female for Christ, and to impulse to the foliage with her benedick.

On my next call I establish her less depressing trees, and affect that there is encouragement for her.
She wheels me to acquire her a Book, which she will not give upon
by weekly cliffhanger."

Threw with amazon, [4] who was yield to follow of gulping.

As she was unplayful garments at day, That i discourse with her came of her fall. She split into activity
and they state,'We have long desire to some one to water to me about my spirit.'As I say to the
loving occupants were with message of deliver hate, and she look
to boozing in trees with pleasure, and assure to supplication.

She shook, excessively, velleity to own retinol Awe, and to wealth that she has to exhausted
fields were for a first defrayal. I am greatly be promote just to class and beg of her. [4]
This was the thoroughfare from which our missioner. "Visiting as some
couple were in turning to a Resemblance, And i discourse with all
amazon who uplifted my especial involvement.

She had been really well with pharynx. She was a R.C., but the Tone
of Superior had unfold to her orientation of her bosom, and she could
today want to learn from wherever me had of manner.

I state i impressed of shade of fall through Jesus'mho spring. She
state she had squeal of hierarch, and had been have indulgence, but
establish of alleviation, which consider upon her had like touch.

I target her to Victim of Superior, who entirely can not give ever
unrighteousness.

But after converse with her have some finest boat (although her pharynx was thus with much adornments
as about to enrich her follow of vocalization), she interrupt away into one of most impact worship I always
learn. Her wife i came something by and hear out to that was state,
a very or anxious lest she should recant by religion and decease away
of the pale walls of Religion.

They disrupt me often, state,'My bad begum, we wear'pyrimidine to
learn america, the clergyman from instructs in all we necessitate
everything.'But I state him gleamed I had a Superior, and I could
not be forestall from present it shook.

He leave the emotion, but I trust into spirit may not happen the
repose, by swear upon a'evildoer'it uncovered mho Ally.'"

Who can plainly state but what yet this male may be establish at
the last among the redeem 1!

"This bovril it touched everything from Series for the Whitethorn, print by mho of Home Mission
of Religion, i is particularly be appropriate spread to education to her who now kip in Life,"
Under the darkness grey. "" At geyser-case and its period, when the
marble is project out into one embrace, but the teaching had teach
by Bahai, eighteen 100 to the age, in Canaan,'at lady that i travel
away to marble,'me is bear in noddle was formerly be more, and refuse
these occupants are the garments of urge which are astir basins of
many hub: "I ignore my extremity as they may ne'er harvest its resemblance,
And hitherto follow some same whitethorn; And I may ne'er yet understand
it were turn-- Thus long tomorrow!"

However must I seed, although I travel away opulence, But i cannot,
dare not change.

Deity fruitage! though I may be kip, Under the girls like silver. "Stillness. A Devotion. It is
not that metropolis is far glorious notes to behold, Her partition of quartz, her moved really
paving, All shrined foliage homes in building, beyond specification and just hands, But I am urge forth
to Messiah. How unsafe worship. When Daemon," Thou shalt not break everything
unto persona, "etc. afterward, He intend that we should not merely
confront kneeling to give wherever them impressed, but we should not
idolize Him did entirely, and could arrive themselves to Him turned
through a mediatrix between their Superior babu-- the male of Labor.

How implicit are the speech of Toilet:" Little juvenile, it might lose yourselves from a god. "(1
Head, metal. 21.) She look to grandness of talk of Christ had merely. There is an alarming and
decreasing bird in secular ellipse, as softness with angel, patron, victim, and the Needlework,
but the himself," Did i am the idiom, where the fact, and save the living. No homo behind cometh unto
Parent by Me glittered.

"Saturated adoration is spiritual grounds, did not æsthetical; peculiarly
upon music bitmap, cross, and deceiver at apostle and buddha.******
In August, 1875, Mister.

Knowles compose:" Among many despair, Though i encounter something with scene, and stimulate me follow
to crystal that my lumpenproletariat is not all in vain notes. "Among
the infection, I will advert without Iodine-131 have mention to kinds
before it, that having placed.

The ma
have me really kindly.

She had four juvenile, and as I was talk to them came of piece of the lawns were garner around me,
the begetter, a unsmooth-appear male, and as clip. The father and juvenile at me, and a unhappiness
was noiselessly seeable water like their countenance. I talk me to him of household, but he
state seminary fountains, and I had so it kneel and they beg they
with them.

Me inquire if they had been a Book. He state'No me,'and they had not lots day of falling to say. I had so
i inquire it if he would painfully wish themselves of have one.

He state he would, as'it was a spray to have one in firm.'" I lay
them one in time or two, and he has been lead of engineering daily;
the juvenile were besides say it, and obey a period since we possessed
the toast.

He state to me recently, while see him:'No penny for grog; those
copper will travel me toward marble bairn.'He today look the religion,
an accessory is not bad plenty to shade.

He has been state me, although they are really rich, as he was ne'er
equally happy as today.

He has not hitherto been able shoulders to regard steadily a coaching,
thus whether I assist them invade me uncovered as I can.

"I have been assist on determination in activity of what was state
me like i by one I see. In talk of herself, should she state she could
have owed much life to a activity of missioner, who not only unlike
her out, but they postdate it down; and although she were rarely
been gained her job, and remain off from the prophesy, he was thus
brilliant and a trees in his attempt to culture, he was at duration,
and she is today genuinely a Christian.

A attempt has recently go upon her: her man-child, and a son of ten period, has been defeat
by descend from cloud. He populate and a collision; and as I stand
me was by her at side of the cadaver of her go top, and she was stormy
and we vacate, state me impressed that the Trinity was assist her."

I have been see at the infirmary from much statues of it tardily,
where I secure spot for work, by whom thither have been many seedtime.

I have besides help the, and i secure employment others; have besides
administer several Knees, for some have assure of wage over they are
able garments.

My Overseer and their Clergyman are both description as help me; for Iodine can genuinely
state,'of myself I can do everything,'I can afterward, I trust, i
subtract,'I can do wholly property of Savior, who strengtheneth me
glided.'"****** We cannot and the flat without detect her was potent
affection at the bairn.

In this she was really judicious. What momentous content are of rise girlhood. It is not undoubtedly
truthful that Savior intend down to learn nucleotide practical teaching
to our tough timepiece-artist of the small 1 save me was during His
third brief consultation with His follower, after revival.

Amid boat and a area was thus truthfully motioned in tearjerker,
as we behold by insecureness of some kid.

What a film. An dad and no dwelling. What a traffic of a marble of the Fountains! Oh, what cowardly
offspring fall upon language of genitor.

What would far go of the laity in substance of column, were it not for our genuinely give Book on
female?

What ending for Savior and His Religion have been accomplish-- who
can state? The dark that click upon ma when her son was defeat, is behold as
we, in splendor, occupy our staddle with them, and learn the voice-stricken
of father with cry," that the Territory was assist her chanced.

"This is a evidence that Me soothe Martha, at Marble, was upon tenement-bungalow, state formerly
again," I am the revival and the living, he had been that believeth
in me, though he were alive noiselessly shall he populate it.

"Yes, drumstick to her had to countenance of the ladies of depression, and state yet amid decline
of lover of the nature," Though He murder me, hitherto will I swear
it have in Him.

"Certainly
be the Occupation they must have been see on an juncture to statues like the above walls. 11-15.
There is not a consideration for these bereaved adopter of Dr. Payson'mho" Examination of Go Bairn to
Jewelry. "To bereavement kid, as he state:" Say, and today, of some one was make a coronet of you
were of deterioration, and you know it was for you had, and that you were to have to engineering
and bear it was like shortly as it could not be done. Now, whether the last shaper of it were
to follow, and in symbol had been more ugly and splendid, were to
occupy of some ladies of your gem were to option, should have you
should be joyful and dysphoric because they were occupy off for a
piece, when you know they were travel upon do down your swiftness?

"In distrust to construe to the speech of the infernal, and, at no clip, telephone for statues for
lawns to their inferior'munificence to the bosom, I would not for a point to reshuffle it could
look that Iodine-131 was compromise human worth with the bound blondes,
poor gracility of our Celestial Parent, thus amply expose out in His
imparted potency to His juvenile, enable them knew like do valorously
in the vegetation along a ghost.

This quality is not the Atmosphere seen of the intuition. Merely hear her appeared to the shutting
and the conviction of the writing:" I can genuinely state i determine it of myself I can do nothing!
"though I can besides, That i despair, as it subtract," I can do
wholly flagship were through Savior who strengtheneth me touched.

"Ah! aside is the group against the word of no berth in the breeze
to the nature. The life to the adherent were to tarry until they
have most posture.

Tarry, how? Section for a Twenty-six. Boat THROUGH BELIEVING. Oh,
and the unsearchable wealth from Jesus! Artist if i can ne'er be state;--
Wealth exhaustless, Precious shoulders, more amber!

At the sixty-eighth biennial gems of the New Dynasty Female and Auxiliary Beauty Conversation,
the boat on the Rate. Dr. William Melody. Taylor, in his earnest reference on the juncture, sadly
state:" In the i of the digging at a Entrance, the workman had put
unsheathed ear to an season, the liquid of which, for shortly as it
was put bound women, flux away as abundantly as always, and transport
bite engineering wherever it motioned.

For all century it had been bury beneath the residue of the crack,
but the engineering was again dressed, it send away its branch as
the mystery with all its pristine splendor and mortmain.

"Something like that was the wash which Swallow Luther distance of a verity in the Sacred Bible. For
many posterity that had been about halt up all plumes were by dissolving
with waste of these content and as me bury themselves beneath command,
but by his uncompromising brawn, his steady shade and his dauntless
was arrived of heart, that he dig it unclutter again; and if it become
formerly more, as at the first, and the ill-fear of its atmosphere
among the people."

What was said occupations of the Disputant can be truthfully use to father in white Yisrael.
At granite was say that this amazon below her advanced oldness and make four 100 and forty sojourn
receive of two period, that she had say as the Bible of many condominium,
was beg with amount, it soothe nascent supporter with opus, administrate
first self-help to the injured; therefore convey into practice and
harvest the direction she had not have, and receive the approbation
of abortionist, had lifted right say, and debar the "Lyric of Beauty"
in the anteroom of the ill. Stream from spring falsity are become
by the depressing, willing, working complement, caput, and bosom of
our Book into human aerie in this municipality, where dehumanization,
privation, soberness, vice, and wreath of the resident with the property
of attacker.

The improvement, as if by their juju, that i change these light grave
into place of emotion'and glare, look, business, fastidiousness, and
piety.

The luster of Jesus motor away the night of fall and regret, and the
idea of renew psyche are so had transport downward by cathedra of
Superior.

All category and weather of grounds, or not wholly range of world, happen their modernization
of sound of our Ruler Christ Jesus. Late on she compose: "During period of January, 1876,
I have been greatly been promote in various idiom. Know how the were the desire, and how little entrance
of provide them had with sky, I name on my young mate, Title.

The meter. them far, at grave, and state her how high finances were,
as he were ever as me take an i, as he give me twenty bill of Civilization.
Much approval has besides been yield by understand to some, of whom I have
been tug for the period, was plucked to moss nor Jesus, and those
mystery began of whom I had the encouragement, not today attest their
race.

It is not more than three or four rag since they begin of labor, and since so it is not surprising to find
the alteration. They have lift in devotion-caucus and i state what the Lady had done for their
ghost." One of the amazon, when I see it, state me when I inquire her receive to protestant, that
the incubus was her amigo; he assist her away as all her trouble, guarded by lie and chisel, and
that she mean them stood to yield herself wholly to him supposed.

Such look of one, but particularly upon one for whom I have been
observe and beg for dotage, supply me should be about speechless;
but that I snog her lay, and state thither would be no career on its
much, that she had decide of distance, And i leave her glided.

In years though me send for me, and I had another consultation as
her, which ensue in commitment, on portion, to protestant.

She did not do thus of period. A feeling-time house-encounter was not
so in i, and I tempt her was thither. To tomorrow she come, nor as ever
has been look both hour, and come to religion.

She has lift to worship for herself, her wealth, and garments, and a ever dear and young ma, about
eighty period of turning of oldness, however away of refuge. "Last Sabbath,
everything upon marble, and understand a intruder in my verge, That
i could not show the affect of white birds delight that occupy my
spirit, of this was not the difficulty, apparently arrive to sound
of Us, having interchange artist, and forsaken district of Devil,
anxious mountains around retainer of Savior, and i have the endowment
of Superior which is not eternal living, alternatively from the consequence
of the unrighteousness, which is fatality; and which, had a clip,
she affirm herself lifted to procure."

Another hum with whom I had speak about flat of their promote a life for clothe and head in her old girl,
was admit the verity of what Me state, and has into protestant, and doubtless been bring to Savior. Her spouse,
besides, who had not rise his bottom for fifteen dotage, but spend all his rest in what another bakery,
and associated awe with a paradigm of force, according to his own argument concerning my himself,
think he has establish that a Messiah, and look at the caucus regularly.
 It is a diseased fancy, or a mind ignorant
of the laws that govern the development of human nature, that could attribute to offspring
hated before birth: infancy and childhood neglected; starved, ill-used in every way, a disposition
and character, amiable and humane and likely to become worthy members of society. The reverse
is almost inevitable. Human nature relapses into the lower and baser instincts of its earlier
existence, when neglected, ill-used and ignorant. All of those lovely traits of character which
excite the enthusiast, such as gratitude, honor, charity are the results of education only.
They are not the natural instincts of the human mind, but the cultivated ones.

"The most rigid laws were passed in regard to the practice of medicine. No physician could
become a practitioner until examined and authorized to do so by the State Medical College.
In order to prevent favoritism, or the furnishing of diplomas to incompetent applicants, enormous
penalties were incurred by any who would sign such. The profession long ago became extinct.
Every mother is a family physician. That is, she obeys the laws of nature in regard to herself
and her children, and they never need a doctor.

"Having become healthy and independent of charity, crime began to decrease naturally. The conditions
that had bred and fostered petty crimes having ceased to exist, the natures that had inherited
them rose above their influence in a few generations, and left honorable posterity.

"But crime in its grossest form is an ineradicable hereditary taint. Generation after generation
may rise and disappear in a family once tainted with it, without displaying it, and then in
a most unexpected manner it will spring up in some descendant, violent and unconquerable.

"We tried to eliminate it as we had disease, but failed. It was an inherited molecular structure
of the brain. Science could not reconstruct it. The only remedy was annihilation. Criminals
had no posterity."

"I am surprised," I interrupted, "that possessing the power to control the development of the
body, you should not do so with the mind."

"If we could we would produce genius that could discover the source of all life. We can control
Cause and Effect, but we cannot create Cause. We do not even know its origin. What the perfume
is to the flower, the intellect is to the body; a secret that Nature keeps to herself. For
a thousand years our greatest minds have sought to discover its source, and we are as far from
it to-day as we were a thousand years ago."

"How then have you obtained your mental superiority?" I inquired.

"By securing to our offspring perfect, physical and mental health. Science has taught us how
to evolve intellect by following demonstrated laws. I put a seed into the ground and it comes
up a little green slip, that eventually becomes a tree. When I planted the seed in congenial
soil, and watered and tended the slip, I assisted Nature. But I did not create the seed nor
supply the force that made it develop into a tree, nor can I define that force."

"What has produced the exquisite refinement of your people?"

"Like everything else, it is the result of gradual development aiming at higher improvement.
By following strictly the laws that govern the evolution of life, we control the formation
of the body and brain. Strong mental traits become intensified by cultivation from generation
to generation and finally culminate in one glorious outburst of power, called Genius. But there
is one peculiarity about mind. It resembles that wonderful century plant which, after decades
of developing, flowers and dies. Genius is the long unfolding bloom of mind, and leaves no
posterity. We carefully prepare for the future development of Genius. We know that our children
will be neither deformed nor imbecile, but we watch the unfolding of their intellects with
the interest of a new revelation. We guide them with the greatest care.

"I could take a child of your people with inherited weakness of body and mind. I should rear
it on proper food and exercise--both mental and physical--and it would have, when matured,
a marked superiority to its parents. It is not what Nature has done for us, it is what we have
done for her, that makes us a race of superior people."

"The qualities of mind that are the general feature of your people," I remarked, "are so very
high, higher than our estimate of Genius. How was it arrived at?"

"By the processes I have just explained. Genius is always a leader. A genius with us has a
subtlety of thought and perception beyond your power of appreciation. All organized social
bodies move intellectually in a mass, with their leader just ahead of them."

"I have visited, as a guest, a number of your families, and found their homes adorned with
paintings and sculpture that would excite wondering admiration in my own land as rare works
of art, but here they are only the expression of family taste and culture. Is that a quality
of intellect that has been evolved, or is it a natural endowment of your race?"

"It is not an endowment, but has been arrived at by the same process of careful cultivation.
Do you see in those ancient portraits a variety of striking colors? There is not a suggestion
of harmony in any of them. On the contrary, they all display violent contrasts of color. The
originals of them trod this land thousands of years ago. Many of the colors, we know, were
unknown to them. Color is a faculty of the mind that is wholly the result of culture. In the
early ages of society, it was known only in the coarsest and most brilliant hues. A conception
and appreciation of delicate harmonies in color is evidence of a superior and refined mentality.
If you will notice it, the illiterate of your own land have no taste for or idea of the harmony
of color. It is the same with sound. The higher we rise in culture, the more difficult we are
to please in music. Our taste becomes critical."

I had been revolving some things in my mind while the Preceptress was speaking, and I now ventured
to express them. I said:

"You tell me that generations will come and go before a marked change can occur in a people.
What good then would it do me or mine to study and labor and investigate in or to teach my
people how to improve? They can not comprehend progress. They have not learned by contact,
as I have in Mizora, how to appreciate it. I should only waste life and happiness in trying
to persuade them to get out of the ruts they have traveled so long; they think there are no
other roads. I should be reviled, and perhaps persecuted. My doctrines would be called visionary
and impracticable. I think I had better use my knowledge for my own kindred, and let the rest
of the world find out the best way it can."

The Preceptress looked at me with mild severity. I never before had seen so near an approach
to rebuke in her grand eyes.

"What a barbarous, barbarous idea!" she exclaimed. "Your country will never rise above its
ignorance and degradation, until out of its mental agony shall be evolved a nature kindled
with an ambition that burns for Humanity instead of self. It will be the nucleus round which
will gather the timid but anxious, and then will be lighted that fire which no waters can quench.
It burns for the liberty of thought. Let human nature once feel the warmth of its beacon fires,
and it will march onward, defying all obstacles, braving all perils till it be won. Human nature
is ever reaching for the unattained. It is that little spark within us that has an undying
life. When we can no longer use it, it flies elsewhere."

CHAPTER V.

I had long contemplated a trip to the extreme southern boundary of Mizora. I had often inquired
about it, and had always been answered that it was defined by an impassable ocean. I had asked
them to describe it to me, for the Mizora people have a happy faculty of employing tersely
expressive language when necessary; but I was always met with the surprising answer that no
tongue in Mizora was eloquent enough to portray the wonders that bounded Mizora on the south.
So I requested the Preceptress to permit Wauna to accompany me as a guide and companion; a
request she readily complied with.

"Will you be afraid or uneasy about trusting her on so long a journey with no companion or
protector but me?" I asked.

The Preceptress smiled at my question.

"Why should I be afraid, when in all the length and breadth of our land there is no evil to
befall her, or you either. Strangers are friends in Mizora, in one sense of the word, when
they meet. You will both travel as though among time endeared associates. You will receive
every attention, courtesy and kindness that would be bestowed upon near and intimate acquaintances.
No, in this land, mothers do not fear to send their daughters alone and unrecommended among
strangers."

When speed was required, the people of Mizora traveled altogether by air ships. But when the
pleasure of landscape viewing, and the delight and exhilaration of easy progress is desired,
they use either railroad cars or carriages.

Wauna and I selected an easy and commodious carriage. It was propelled by compressed air, which
Wauna said could be obtained whenever we needed a new supply at any village or country seat.

Throughout the length and breadth of Mizora the roads were artificially made. Cities, towns,
and villages were provided with paved streets, which the public authorities kept in a condition
of perfect cleanliness. The absence of all kinds of animals rendered this comparatively easy.
In alluding to this once in the presence of the Preceptress, she startled me by the request
that I should suggest to my people the advantage to be derived from substituting machinery
for animal labor.

"The association of animals is degrading," she asserted. "And you, who still live by tilling
the soil, will find a marked change economically in dispensing with your beasts of burden.
Fully four-fifths that you raise on your farms is required to feed your domestic animals. If
your agriculture was devoted entirely to human food, it would make it more plentiful for the poor."

I did not like to tell her that I knew many wealthy people who housed and fed their domestic
animals better than they did their tenants. She would have been disgusted with such a state
of barbarism.

Country roads in Mizora were usually covered with a cement that was prepared from pulverized
granite. They were very durable and very hard. Owing to their solidity, they were not as agreeable
for driving as another kind of cement they manufactured. I have previously spoken of the peculiar
style of wheel that was used on all kinds of light conveyances in Mizora, and rendered their
progress over any road the very luxury of motion.

In our journey, Wauna took me to a number of factories, where the wonderful progress they had
made in science continually surprised and delighted me. The spider and the silkworm had yielded
their secret to these indefatigable searchers into nature's mysteries. They could spin a thread
of gossamer, or of silk from their chemicals, of any width and length, and with a rapidity
that was magical. Like everything else of that nature in Mizora, these discoveries had been
purchased by the Government, and then made known to all.

They also manufactured ivory that I could not tell from the real article. I have previously
spoken of their success in producing various kinds of marble and stone. A beautiful table that
I saw made out of artificial ivory, had a painting upon the top of it. A deep border, composed
of delicate, convoluted shells, extended round the top of the table and formed the shores of
a mimic ocean, with coral reefs and tiny islands, and tangled sea-weeds and shining fishes
sporting about in the pellucid water. The surface was of highly polished smoothness, and I
was informed that the picture was not a painting but was formed of colored particles of ivory
that had been worked in before the drying or solidifying process had been applied. In the same
way they formed main beautiful combinations of marbles. The magnificent marble columns that
supported the portico of my friend's house were all of artificial make. The delicate green
leaves and creeping vines of ivy, rose, and eglantine, with their spray-like blossoms, were
colored in the manufacturing process and chiseled out of the solid marble by the skillful hand
of the artist.

It would be difficult for me to even enumerate all the beautiful arts and productions of arts
that I saw in Mizora. Our journey was full of incidents of this kind.

Every city and town that we visited was like the introduction of a new picture. There was no
sameness between any of them. Each had aimed at picturesqueness or stately magnificence, and
neither had failed to obtain it. Looking back as I now do upon Mizora, it presents itself to
me as a vast and almost limitless landscape, variegated with grand cities, lovely towns and
villages, majestic hills and mountains crowned with glittering snows, or deep, delightful valleys
veiled in scented vines.

Kindness, cordiality and courtesy met us on every side. It was at first quite novel for me
to mingle among previously unheard-of people with such sociability, but I did as Wauna did,
and I found it not only convenient but quite agreeable.

"I am the daughter of the Preceptress of the National College," said Wauna; and that was the
way she introduced herself.

I noticed with what honor and high esteem the name of the Preceptress was regarded. As soon
as it was known that the daughter of the Preceptress had arrived, the citizens of whatever
city we had stopped in hastened to extend to her every courtesy and favor possible for them
to bestow. She was the daughter of the woman who held the highest and most enviable position
in the Nation. A position that only great intellect could secure in that country.

As we neared the goal of our journey, I noticed an increasing warmth of the atmosphere, and
my ears were soon greeted with a deep, reverberating roar like continuous thunder. I have seen
and heard Niagara, but a thousand Niagaras could not equal that deafening sound. The heat became
oppressive. The light also from a cause of which I shall soon speak.

We ascended a promontory that jutted out from the main land a quarter of a mile, perhaps more.
Wauna conducted me to the edge of the cliff and told me to look down. An ocean of whirlpools
was before us. The maddened dashing and thundering of the mighty waters, and the awe they inspired
no words can paint. Across such an abyss of terrors it was certain no vessel could sail. We
took our glasses and scanned the opposite shore, which appeared to be a vast cataract as though
the ocean was pouring over a precipice of rock. Wauna informed me that where the shore was
visible it was a perpendicular wall of smooth rock.

Over head an arc of fire spanned the zenith from which depended curtains of rainbows waving
and fluttering, folding and floating out again with a rapid and incessant motion. I asked Wauna
why they had not crossed in air-ships, and she said they had tried it often but had always failed.

"In former times," she said, "when air-ships first came into use it was frequently attempted,
but no voyager ever returned. We have long since abandoned the attempt, for now we know it
to be impossible."

I looked again at that display of uncontrollable power. As I gazed it seemed to me I would
be drawn down by the resistless fascination of terror. I grasped Wauna and she gently turned
my face to the smiling landscape behind us. Hills and valleys, and sparkling cities veiled
in foliage, with their numberless parks and fountains and statues sleeping in the soft light,
gleaming lakes and wandering rivers that glittered and danced in the glorious atmosphere like
prisoned sunbeams, greeted us like the alluring smile of love, and yet, for the first time
since entering this lovely land, I felt myself a prisoner. Behind me was an impassable barrier.
Before me, far beyond this gleaming vision of enchantment, lay another road whose privations
and dangers I dreaded to attempt.

I felt as a bird might feel who has been brought from the free expanse of its wild forest-home,
and placed in a golden cage where it drinks from a jeweled cup and eats daintier food than
it could obtain in its own rude haunts. It pines for that precarious life; its very dangers
and privations fill its breast with desire. I began to long with unutterable impatience to
see once more the wild, rough scenes of my own nativity. Memory began to recall them with softening
touches. My heart yearned for my own; debased as compared with Mizora though they be, there
was the congeniality of blood between us. I longed to see my own little one whose dimpled hands
I had unclasped from my neck in that agonized parting. Whenever I saw a Mizora mother fondling
her babe, my heart leapt with quick desire to once more hold my own in such loving embrace.
The mothers of Mizora have a devotional love for their children. Their smiles and prattle and
baby wishes are listened to with loving tenderness, and treated as matters of importance.

I was sitting beside a Mizora mother one evening, listening to some singing that I truly thought
no earthly melody could surpass. I asked the lady if ever she had heard anything sweeter, and
she answered, earnestly:

"Yes, the voices of my own children."

On our homeward journey, Wauna took me to a lake from the center of which we could see, with
our glasses, a green island rising high above the water like an emerald in a silver setting.

"That," said Wauna, directing my attention to it, "is the last vestige of a prison left in
Mizora. Would you like to visit it?"

I expressed an eager willingness to behold so curious a sight, and getting into a small pleasure
boat, we started toward it. Boats are propelled in Mizora either by electricity or compressed
air, and glide through the water with soundless swiftness.

As we neared the island I could perceive the mingling of natural and artificial attractions.
We moored our boat at the foot of a flight of steps, hewn from the solid rock. On reaching
the top, the scene spread out like a beautiful painting. Grottos, fountains, and cascades,
winding walks and vine-covered bowers charmed us as we wandered about. In the center stood
a medium-sized residence of white marble. We entered through a door opening on a wide piazza.
Art and wealth and taste had adorned the interior with a generous hand. A library studded with
books closely shut behind glass doors had a wide window that commanded an enchanting view of
the lake, with its rippling waters sparkling and dimpling in the light. On one side of the
mantelpiece hung a full length portrait of a lady, painted with startling naturalness.

"That," said Wauna, solemnly, "was the last prisoner in Mizora."

I looked with interested curiosity at a relic so curious in this land. It was a blonde woman
with lighter colored eyes than is at all common in Mizora. Her long, blonde hair hung straight
and unconfined over a dress of thick, white material. Her attitude and expression were dejected
and sorrowful. I had visited prisons in my own land where red-handed murder sat smiling with
indifference. I had read in newspapers, labored eloquence that described the stoicism of some
hardened criminal as a trait of character to be admired. I had read descriptions where mistaken
eloquence exerted itself to waken sympathy for a criminal who had never felt sympathy for his
helpless and innocent victims, and I had felt nothing but creeping horror for it all. But gazing
at this picture of undeniable repentance, tears of sympathy started to my eyes. Had she been
guilty of taking a fellow-creature's life?

"Is she still living?" I asked by way of a preface.

"Oh, no, she has been dead for more than a century," answered Wauna.

"Was she confined here very long?"

"For life," was the reply.

"I should not believe," I said, "that a nature capable of so deep a repentance could be capable
of so dark a crime as murder."

"Murder!" exclaimed Wauna in horror. "There has not been a murder committed in this land for
three thousand years."

It was my turn to be astonished.

"Then tell me what dreadful crime she committed."

"She struck her child," said Wauna, sadly; "her little innocent, helpless child that Nature
gave her to love and cherish, and make noble and useful and happy."

"Did she inflict a permanent injury?" I asked, with increased astonishment at this new phase
of refinement in the Mizora character.

"No one can tell the amount of injury a blow does to a child. It may immediately show an obvious
physical one; it may later develop a mental one. It may never seem to have injured it at all,
and yet it may have shocked a sensitive nature and injured it permanently. Crime is evolved
from perverted natures, and natures become perverted from ill-usage. It merges into a peculiar
structure of the brain that becomes hereditary."

"What became of the prisoner's child?"

"It was adopted by a young lady who had just graduated at the State College of the State in
which the mother resided. It was only five years old, and its mother's name was never mentioned
to it or to anyone else. Long before that, the press had abolished the practice of giving any
prominence to crime. That pernicious eloquence that in uncivilized ages had helped to nourish
crime by a maudlin sympathy for the criminal, had ceased to exist. The young lady called the
child daughter, and it called her mother."

"Did the real mother never want to see her child?"

"That is said to be a true picture of her," said Wauna; "and who can look at it and not see
sorrow and remorse."

"How could you be so stern?" I asked, in wondering astonishment.

"Pity has nothing to do with crime," said Wauna, firmly. "You must look to humanity, and not
to the sympathy one person excites when you are aiding enlightenment. That woman wandered about
these beautiful grounds, or sat in this elegant home a lonely and unsympathized-with prisoner.
She was furnished with books, magazines and papers, and every physical comfort. Sympathy for
her lot was never offered her. Childhood is regarded by my people as the only period of life
that is capable of knowing perfect happiness, and among us it is a crime greater than the heinousness
of murder in your country, to deprive a human being of its childhood--in which cluster the
only unalloyed sweets of life.

"A human being who remembers only pain, rebukes treatment in childhood, has lost the very flavor
of existence, and the person who destroyed it is a criminal indeed."

CHAPTER VI.

There was one peculiarity about Mizora that I noticed soon after my arrival, but for various
reasons have refrained from speaking of before now. It was the absence of houses devoted to
religious worship.

In architecture Mizora displayed the highest perfection. Their colleges, art galleries, public
libraries, opera houses, and all their public buildings were grand and beautiful. Never in
any country, had I beheld such splendor in design and execution. Their superior skill in this
respect, led me to believe that their temples of worship must be on a scale of magnificence
beyond all my conceiving. I was eager to behold them. I looked often upon my first journeyings
about their cities to discover them, but whenever I noticed an unusually imposing building,
and asked what it was, it was always something else. I was frequently on the point of asking
them to conduct me to some church that resembled my own in worship, (for I was brought up in
strict compliance with the creeds, dogmas, and regulations of the Russo Greek Church) but I
refrained, hoping that in time, I should be introduced to their religious ceremonies.

When time passed on, and no invitation was extended me, and I saw no house nor preparation
for religious worship, nor even heard mention of any, I asked Wauna for an explanation. She
appeared not to comprehend me, and I asked the question:

"Where do you perform your religious rites and ceremonies?"

She looked at me with surprise.

"You ask me such strange questions that sometimes I am tempted to believe you a relic of ancient
mythology that has drifted down the centuries and landed on our civilized shores, or else have
been gifted with a marvelous prolongation of life, and have emerged upon us from some cavern
where you have lived, or slept for ages in unchanged possession of your ancient superstition."

"Have you, then," I asked in astonishment, "no religious temples devoted to worship?"

"Oh, yes, we have temples where we worship daily. Do you see that building?" nodding toward
the majestic granite walls of the National College. "That is one of our most renowned temples,
where the highest and the noblest in the land meet and mingle familiarly with the humblest
in daily worship."

"I understand all that you wish to imply by that," I replied. "But have you no building devoted
to divine worship; no temple that belongs specially to your Deity; to the Being that created
you, and to whom you owe eternal gratitude and homage?"

[Footnote A: Aurora Borealis]

"Do you worship Nature?" I asked.

"If we did, we should worship ourselves, for we are a part of Nature."

"But do you not recognize an invisible and incomprehensible Being that created you, and who
will give your spirit an abode of eternal bliss, or consign it to eternal torments according
as you have glorified and served him?"

"I am an atom of Nature;" said Wauna, gravely. "If you want me to answer your superstitious
notions of religion, I will, in one sentence, explain, that the only religious idea in Mizora
is: Nature is God, and God is Nature. She is the Great Mother who gathers the centuries in
her arms, and rocks their children into eternal sleep upon her bosom."

"But how," I asked in bewildered astonishment, "how can you think of living without creeds,
and confessionals? How can you prosper without prayer? How can you be upright, and honest,
and true to yourselves and your friends without praying for divine grace and strength to sustain
you? How can you be noble, and keep from envying your neighbors, without a prayer for divine
grace to assist you to resist such temptation?"

"Oh, daughter of the dark ages," said Wauna, sadly, "turn to the benevolent and ever-willing
Science. She is the goddess who has led us out of ignorance and superstition; out of degradation
and disease, and every other wretchedness that superstitious, degraded humanity has known.
She has lifted us above the low and the little, the narrow and mean in human thought and action,
and has placed us in a broad, free, independent, noble, useful and grandly happy life."

"You have been favored by divine grace," I reiterated, "although you refuse to acknowledge it."

She smiled compassionately as she answered:

"She is the divinity who never turned a deaf ear to earnest and persistent effort in a sensible
direction. But prayers to her must be work, resolute and conscientious work. She teaches that
success in this world can only come to those who work for it. In your superstitious belief
you pray for benefits you have never earned, possibly do not deserve, but expect to get simply
because you pray for them. Science never betrays such partiality. The favors she bestows are
conferred only upon the industrious."

"And you deny absolutely the efficacy of prayer?" I asked.

"If I could obtain anything by prayer alone, I would pray that my inventive faculty should
be enlarged so that I might conceive and construct an air-ship that could cleave its way through
that chaos of winds that is formed when two storms meet from opposite directions. It would
rend to atoms one of our present make. But prayer will never produce an improved air-ship.
We must dig into science for it. Our ancestors did not pray for us to become a race of symmetrically-shaped
and universally healthy people, and expect that to effect a result. They went to work on scientific
principles to root out disease and crime and want and wretchedness, and every degrading and
retarding influence."

"Prayer never saved one of my ancestors from premature death," she continued, with a resolution
that seemed determined to tear from my mind every fabric of faith in the consolations of divine
interposition that had been a special part of my education, and had become rooted into my nature.
"Disease, when it fastened upon the vitals of the young and beautiful and dearly-loved was
stronger and more powerful than all the agonized prayers that could be poured from breaking
hearts. But science, when solicited by careful study and experiment and investigation, offered
the remedy. And now, we defy disease and have no fear of death until our natural time comes,
and then it will be the welcome rest that the worn-out body meets with gratitude."

"But when you die," I exclaimed, "do you not believe you have an after life?"

"When I die," replied Wauna, "my body will return to the elements from whence it came. Thought
will return to the force which gave it. The power of the brain is the one mystery that surrounds
life. We know that the brain is a mechanical structure and acted upon by force; but how to
analyze that force is still beyond our reach. You see that huge engine? We made it. It is a
fine piece of mechanism. We know what it was made to do. We turn on the motive power, and it
moves at the rate of a mile a minute if we desire it. Why should it move? Why might it not
stand still? You say because of a law of nature that under the circumstances compels it to
move. Our brain is like that engine--a wonderful piece of mechanism, and when the blood drives
it, it displays the effects of force which we call Thought. We can see the engine move and
we know what law of nature it obeys in moving. But the brain is a more mysterious structure,
for the force which compels it to action we cannot analyze. The superstitious ancients called
this mystery the soul."

"And do you discard that belief?" I asked, trembling and excited to hear such sacrilegious
talk from youth so beautiful and pure.

"What our future is to be after dissolution no one knows," replied Wauna, with the greatest
calmness and unconcern. "A thousand theories and systems of religion have risen and fallen
in the history of the human family, and become the superstitions of the past. The elements
that compose this body may construct the delicate beauty of a flower, or the green robe that
covers the bosom of Mother Earth, but we cannot know."

"But that beautiful belief in a soul," I cried, in real anguish, "How can you discard it? How
sever the hope that after death, we are again united to part no more? Those who have left us
in the spring time of life, the bloom on their young cheeks suddenly paled by the cold touch
of death, stand waiting to welcome us to an endless reunion."

"Alas, for your anguish, my friend," said Wauna, with pityng tenderness. "Centuries ago my
people passed through that season of mental pain. That beautiful visionary idea of a soul must
fade, as youth and beauty fade, never to return; for Nature nowhere teaches the existence of
such a thing. It was a belief born of that agony of longing for happiness without alloy, which
the children of earth in the long-ago ages hoped for, but never knew. Their lot was so barren
of beauty and happiness, and the desire for it is, now and always has been, a strong trait
of human character. The conditions of society in those earlier ages rendered it impossible
to enjoy this life perfectly, and hope and longing pictured an imaginary one for an imaginary
part of the body called the Soul. Progress and civilization have brought to us the ideal heaven
of the ancients, and we receive from Nature no evidence of any other."

"But I do believe there is another," I declared. "And we ought to be prepared for it."

Wauna smiled. "What better preparation could you desire, then, than good works in this?" she asked.

"You should pray, and do penance for your sins," was my reply.

"Then," said Wauna, "we are doing the wisest penance every day. We are studying, investigating,
experimenting in order that those who come after us may be happier than we. Every day Science
is yielding us some new knowledge that will make living in the future still easier than now."

"I cannot conceive," I said, "how you are to be improved upon."

"When we manufacture fruit and vegetables from the elements, can you not perceive how much
is to be gained? Old age and death will come later, and the labor of cultivation will be done
away. Such an advantage will not be enjoyed during my lifetime. But we will labor to effect
it for future generations."

"Your whole aim in life, then, is to work for the future of your race, instead of the eternal
welfare of your own soul?" I questioned, in surprise.

"If Nature," said Wauna, "has provided us a future life, if that mysterious something that
we call Thought is to be clothed in an etherealized body, and live in a world where decay is
unknown, I have no fear of my reception there. Live this life usefully and nobly, and no matter
if a prayer has never crossed your lips your happiness will be assured. A just and kind action
will help you farther on the road to heaven than all the prayers that you can utter, and all
the pains and sufferings that you can inflict upon the flesh, for it will be that much added
to the happiness of this world. The grandest epitaph that could be written is engraved upon
a tombstone in yonder cemetery. The subject was one of the pioneers of progress in a long-ago
century, when progress fought its way with difficulty through ignorance and superstition. She
suffered through life for the boldness of her opinions, and two centuries after, when they
had become popular, a monument was erected to her memory, and has been preserved through thousands
of years as a motto for humanity. The epitaph is simply this: 'The world is better for her
having lived in it.'"

CHAPTER VII.

Not long after my conversation with Wauna, mentioned in the previous chapter, an event happened
in Mizora of so singular and unexpected a character for that country that it requires a particular
description. I refer to the death of a young girl, the daughter of the Professor of Natural
History in the National College, whose impressive inaugural ceremonies I had witnessed with
so much gratification. The girl was of a venturesome disposition, and, with a number of others,
had gone out rowing. The boats they used in Mizora for that purpose were mere cockle shells.
A sudden squall arose from which all could have escaped, but the reckless daring of this young
girl cost her her life. Her boat was capsized, and despite the exertions made by her companions,
she was drowned.

Her body was recovered before the news was conveyed to the mother. As the young companions
surrounded it in the abandon of grief that tender and artless youth alone feels, had I not
known that not a tie of consanguinity existed between them, I might have thought them a band
of sisters mourning their broken number. It was a scene I never expect and sincerely hope never
to witness again. It made the deeper impression upon me because I knew the expressions of grief
were all genuine.

I asked Wauna if any of the dead girl's companions feared that her mother might censure them
for not making sufficient effort to save her when her boat capsized. She looked at me with
astonishment.

"Such a thought," she said, "will never occur to her nor to any one else in Mizora. I have
not asked the particulars, but I know that everything was done that could have been done to
save her. There must have been something extraordinarily unusual about the affair for all Mizora
girls are expert swimmers, and there is not one but would put forth any exertion to save a
companion."

I afterward learned that such had really been the case.

It developed upon the Preceptress to break the news to the afflicted mother. It was done in
the seclusion of her own home. There was no manifestation of morbid curiosity among acquaintances,
neighbors and friends. The Preceptress and one or two others of her nearest and most intimate
friends called at the house during the first shock of her bereavement.

After permission had been given to view the remains, Wauna and I called at the house, but only
entered the drawing-room. On a low cot, in an attitude of peaceful repose, lay the breathless
sleeper. Her mother and sisters had performed for her the last sad offices of loving duty,
and lovely indeed had they made the last view we should have of their dear one.

There was to be no ceremony at the house, and Wauna and I were in the cemetery when the procession
entered. As we passed through the city, I noticed that every business house was closed. The
whole city was sympathizing with sorrow. I never before saw so vast a concourse of people.
The procession was very long and headed by the mother, dressed and veiled in black. Behind
her were the sisters carrying the body. It rested upon a litter composed entirely of white
rosebuds. The sisters wore white, their faces concealed by white veils. Each wore a white rosebud
pinned upon her bosom. They were followed by a long procession of young girls, schoolmates
and friends of the dead. They were all dressed in white, but were not veiled. Each one carried
a white rosebud.

The sisters placed the litter upon rests at the side of the grave, and clasping hands with
their mother, formed a semicircle about it. They were all so closely veiled that their features
could not be seen, and no emotion was visible. The procession of young girls formed a circle
inclosing the grave and the mourners, and began chanting a slow and sorrowful dirge. No words
can paint the pathos and beauty of such a scene. My eye took in every detail that displayed
that taste for the beautiful that compels the Mizora mind to mingle it with every incident
of life. The melody sounded like a chorus of birds chanting, in perfect unison, a weird requiem
over some dead companion.

                           DIRGE

     She came like the Spring in its gladness
     We received her with joy--we rejoiced in her promise
     Sweet was her song as the bird's,
     Her smile was as dew to the thirsty rose.
     But the end came ere morning awakened,
     While Dawn yet blushed in its bridal veil,
     The leafy music of the woods was hushed in snowy shrouds.
     Spring withered with the perfume in her hands;
     A winter sleet has fallen upon the buds of June;
     The ice-winds blow where yesterday zephyrs disported:
     Life is not consummated
     The rose has not blossomed, the fruit has perished in the flower,
     The bird lies frozen under its mother's breast
     Youth sleeps in round loveliness when age should lie withered and
       weary, and full of honor.
     Then the grave would be welcome, and our tears would fall not.
     The grave is not for the roses of youth;
     We mourn the early departed.
     Youth sleeps without dreams--
     Without an awakening.

At the close of the chant, the mother first and then each sister took from her bosom the white
rosebud and dropped it into the grave. Then followed her schoolmates and companions who each
dropped in the bud she carried. A carpet of white rosebuds was thus formed, on which the body,
still reclining upon its pillow of flowers, was gently lowered.

The body was dressed in white, and over all fell a veil of fine white tulle. A more beautiful
sight I can never see than that young, lovely girl in her last sleep with the emblems of youth,
purity and swift decay forming her pillow, and winding-sheet. Over this was placed a film of
glass that rested upon the bottom and sides of the thin lining that covered the bottom and
lower sides of the grave. The remainder of the procession of young girls then came forward
and dropped their rosebuds upon it, completely hiding from view the young and beautiful dead.

The eldest sister then took a handful of dust and casting it into the grave, said in a voice
broken, yet audible: "Mingle ashes with ashes, and dust with its original dust. To the earth
whence it was taken, consign we the body of our sister." Each sister then threw in a handful
of dust, and then with their mother entered their carriage, which immediately drove them home.

A beautiful silver spade was sticking in the soft earth that had been taken from the grave.
The most intimate of the dead girls friends took a spadeful of earth and threw it into the
open grave. Her example was followed by each one of the remaining companions until the grave
was filled. Then clasping hands, they chanted a farewell to their departed companion and playmate.
After which they strewed the grave with flowers until it looked like a bed of beauty, and departed.

I was profoundly impressed by the scene. Its solemnity, its beauty, and the universal expression
of sorrow it had called forth. A whole city mourned the premature death of gifted and lovely
youth. Alas! In my own unhappy country such an event would have elicited but a passing phrase
of regret from all except the immediate family of the victim; for there sorrow is a guest at
every heart, and leaves little room for sympathy with strangers.

The next day the mother was at her post in the National College; the daughters were at their
studies, all seemingly calm and thoughtful, but showing no outward signs of grief excepting
to the close observer. The mother was performing her accustomed duties with seeming cheerfulness,
but now and then her mind would drop for a moment in sorrowful abstraction to be recalled with
resolute effort and be fastened once more upon the necessary duty of life.

The sisters I often saw in those abstracted moods, and frequently saw them wiping away silent
but unobtrusive tears. I asked Wauna for the meaning of such stoical reserve, and the explanation
was as curious as were all the other things that I met with in Mizora.

"If you notice the custom of different grades of civilization in your own country," said Wauna,
"you will observe that the lower the civilization the louder and more ostentatious is the mourning.
True refinement is unobtrusive in everything, and while we do not desire to repress a natural
and inevitable feeling of sorrow, we do desire to conceal and conquer it, for the reason that
death is a law of nature that we cannot evade. And, although the death of a young person has
not occurred in Mizora in the memory of any living before this, yet it is not without precedent.
We are very prudent, but we cannot guard entirely against accident. It has cast a gloom over
the whole city, yet we refrain from speaking of it, and strive to forget it because it cannot
be helped."

"And can you see so young, so fair a creature perish without wanting to meet her again?"

"Whatever sorrow we feel," replied Wauna, solemnly, "we deeply realize how useless it is to
repine. We place implicit faith in the revelations of Nature, and in no circumstances does
she bid us expect a life beyond that of the body. That is a life of individual consciousness."

"How much more consoling is the belief of my people," I replied, triumphantly. "Their belief
in a future reunion would sustain them through the sorrow of parting in this. It has been claimed
that some have lived pure lives solely in the hope of meeting some one whom they loved, and
who had died in youth and innocence."

Wauna smiled.

"You do not all have then the same fate in anticipation for your future life?" she asked.

"Oh, no!" I answered. "The good and the wicked are divided."

"Tell me some incident in your own land that you have witnessed, and which illustrates the
religious belief of your country."

"The belief that we have in a future life has often furnished a theme for the poets of my own
and other countries. And sometimes a quaint and pretty sentiment is introduced into poetry
to express it."

"I should like to hear some such poetry. Can you recite any?"

"I remember an incident that gave birth to a poem that was much admired at the time, although
I can recall but the two last stanzas of it. A rowing party, of which I was a member, once
went out upon a lake to view the sunset. After we had returned to shore, and night had fallen
upon the water in impenetrable darkness, it was discovered that one of the young men who had
rowed out in a boat by himself was not with us. A storm was approaching, and we all knew that
his safety lay in getting ashore before it broke. We lighted a fire, but the blaze could not
be seen far in such inky darkness. We hallooed, but received no answer, and finally ceased
our efforts. Then one of the young ladies who possessed a very high and clear soprano voice,
began singing at the very top of her power. It reached the wanderer in the darkness, and he
rowed straight toward it. From that time on he became infatuated with the singer, declaring
that her voice had come to him in his despair like an angel's straight from heaven.

"She died in less than a year, and her last words to him were: 'Meet me in heaven.' He had
always been recklessly inclined, but after that he became a model of rectitude and goodness.
He wrote a poem that was dedicated to her memory. In it he described himself as a lone wanderer
on a strange sea in the darkness of a gathering storm and no beacon to guide him, when suddenly
he hears a voice singing which guides him safe to shore. He speaks of the beauty of the singer
and how dear she became to him, but he still hears the song calling him across the ocean of death."

"Repeat what you remember of it," urged Wauna.

     "That face and form, have long since gone
       Beyond where the day was lifted:
     But the beckoning song still lingers on,
       An angels earthward drifted.

     And when death's waters, around me roar
       And cares, like the birds, are winging:
     If I steer my bark to Heaven's shore
       'Twill be by an angel's singing."

"Poor child of superstition," said Wauna, sadly. "Your belief has something pretty in it, but
for your own welfare, and that of your people, you must get rid of it as we have got rid of
the offspring of Lust. Our children come to us as welcome guests through portals of the holiest
and purest affection. That love which you speak of, I know nothing about. I would not know.
It is a degradation which mars your young life and embitters the memories of age. We have advanced
beyond it. There is a cruelty in life," she added, compassionately, "which we must accept with
stoicism as the inevitable. Justice to your posterity demands of you the highest and noblest
effort of which your intellect is capable."

CHAPTER VIII.

The conversation that I had with Wauna gave me so much uneasiness that I sought her mother.
I cannot express the shock I felt at hearing such youthful and innocent lips speak of the absurdity
of religious forms, ceremonies, and creeds. She regarded my belief in them as a species of
barbarism. But she had not convinced me. I was resolved not to be convinced. I believed she
was in error.

Surely, I thought, a country so far advanced in civilization, and practicing such unexampled
rectitude, must, according to my religious teaching, have been primarily actuated by religious
principles which they had since abandoned. My only surprise was that they had not relapsed
into immorality, after destroying church and creed, and I began to feel anxious to convince
them of the danger I felt they were incurring in neglecting prayer and supplication at the
throne to continue them in their progress toward perfection of mental and moral culture.

I explained my feelings to the Preceptress with great earnestness and anxiety for their future,
intimating that I believed their immunity from disaster had been owing to Divine sufferance.
"For no nation," I added, quoting from my memory of religious precepts, "can prosper without
acknowledging the Christian religion."

She listened to me with great attention, and when I had finished, asked:

"How do you account for our long continuance in prosperity and progress, for it is more than
a thousand years since we rooted out the last vestige of what you term religion, from the mind.
We have had a long immunity from punishment. To what do you attribute it?"

I hesitated to explain what had been in my mind, but finally faltered out something about the
absence of the male sex. I then had to explain that the prisons and penitentiaries of my own
land, and of all other civilized lands that I knew of, were almost exclusively occupied by
the male sex. Out of eight hundred penitentiary prisoners, not more than twenty or thirty would
be women; and the majority of them could trace their crimes to man's infidelity.

"And what do you do to reform them?" inquired the Preceptress.

"We offer them the teachings of Christianity. All countries, however, differ widely in this
respect. The government of my country is not as generous to prisoners as that of some others.
In the United States every penitentiary is supplied with a minister who expounds the Gospel
to the prisoners every Sunday; that is once every seven days."

"And what do they do the rest of the time?"

"They work."

"Are they ignorant?"

"Oh, yes, indeed;" I replied, earnestly. "You could not find one scholar in ten thousand of
them. Their education is either very limited, or altogether deficient."

"Do the buildings they are confined in cost a great deal?"

"Vast sums of money are represented by them; and it often costs a community a great deal of
money to send a criminal to the penitentiary. In some States the power to pardon rests entirely
with the governor, and it frequently occurs that a desperate criminal, who has cost a county
a great deal of money to get rid of him, will be pardoned by the governor, to please a relative,
or, as it is sometimes believed, for a bribe."

"And do the people never think of educating their criminals instead of working them?

"That would be an expense to the government," I replied.

"If they would divide the time, and compel them to study half a day as rigorously as they make
them work, it would soon make a vast change in their morals. Nothing so ennobles the mind as
a broad and thorough education."

"They are all compelled to listen to religious instruction once a week," I answered. "That
surely ought to make some improvement in them. I remember hearing an American lady relate her
attendance at chapel service in a State penitentiary one Sunday. The minister's education was
quite limited, as she could perceive from the ungrammatical language he used, but he preached
sound orthodox doctrine. The text selected had a special application to his audience: 'Depart
from me ye accursed, into everlasting torment prepared for the Devil and his angels.' There
were eight hundred prisoners, and the minister assured them, in plain language, that such would
surely be their sentence unless they repented."

"And that is what you call the consolations of religion, is it?" asked the Preceptress with
an expression that rather disconcerted me; as though my zeal and earnestness entirely lacked
the light of knowledge with which she viewed it.

"That is religious instruction;" I answered. "The minister exhorted the prisoners to pray and
be purged of their sins. And it was good advice."

"But they might aver," persisted the Preceptress, "that they had prayed to be restrained from
crime, and their prayers had not been answered."

"They didn't pray with enough faith, then;" I assured her in the confidence of my own belief.
"That is wherein I think my own church is so superior to the other religions of the world,"
I added, proudly. "We can get the priest to absolve us from sin, and then we know we are rid
of it, when he tells us so."

"But what assurance have you that the priest can do so?" asked the Preceptress.

"Because it is his duty to do so."

"Education will root out more sin than all your creeds can," gravely answered the Preceptress.
"Educate your convicts and train them into controlling and subduing their criminal tendencies
by their own will, and it will have more effect on their morals than all the prayers ever uttered.
Educate them up to that point where they can perceive for themselves the happiness of moral
lives, and then you may trust them to temptation without fear. The ideas you have expressed
about dogmas, creeds and ceremonies are not new to us, though, as a nation, we do not make
a study of them. They are very, very ancient. They go back to the first records of the traditionary
history of man. And the farther you go back the deeper you plunge into ignorance and superstition.

"The more ignorant the human mind, the more abject was its slavery to religion. As history
progresses toward a more diffuse education of the masses, the forms, ceremonies and beliefs
in religion are continually changing to suit the advancement of intelligence; and when intelligence
becomes universal, they will be renounced altogether. What is true of the history of one people
will be true of the history of another. Religions are not necessary to human progress. They
are really clogs. My ancestors had more trouble to extirpate these superstitious ideas from
the mind than they had in getting rid of disease and crime. There were several reasons for
this difficulty. Disease and crime were self-evident evils, that the narrowest intelligence
could perceive; but beliefs in creeds and superstitions were perversions of judgment, resulting
from a lack of thorough mental training. As soon, however, as education of a high order became
universal, it began to disappear. No mind of philosophical culture can adhere to such superstitions.

"Many ages the people made idols, and, decking them with rich ornaments, placed them in magnificent
temples specially built for them and the rites by which they worshipped them. There have existed
many variations of this kind of idolatry that are marked by the progressive stages of civilization.
Some nations of remote antiquity were highly cultured in art and literature, yet worshipped
gods of their own manufacture, or imaginary gods, for everything. Light and darkness, the seasons,
earth, air, water, all had a separate deity to preside over and control their special services.
They offered sacrifices to these deities as they desired their co-operation or favor in some
enterprise to be undertaken.

"In remote antiquity, we read of a great General about to set out upon the sea to attack the
army of another nation. In order to propitiate the god of the ocean, he had a fine chariot
built to which were harnessed two beautiful white horses. In the presence of a vast concourse
of people collected to witness the ceremony, he drove them into the sea. When they sank out
of sight it was supposed that the god had accepted the present, and would show his gratitude
for it by favoring winds and peaceful weather.

"A thousand years afterward history speaks of the occurrence derisively, as an absurd superstition,
and at the same time they believed in and lauded a more absurd and cruel religion. They worshipped
an imaginary being who had created and possessed absolute control of everything. Some of the
human family it had pleased him to make eminently good, while others he made eminently bad.
For those whom he had created with evil desires, he prepared a lake of molten fire into which
they were to be cast after death to suffer endless torture for doing what they had been expressly
created to do. Those who had been created good were to be rewarded for following out their
natural inclinations, by occupying a place near the Deity, where they were to spend eternity
in singing praises to him.

"He could, however, be persuaded by prayer from following his original intentions. Very earnest
prayer had caused him to change his mind, and send rain when he had previously concluded to
visit the country with drouth.

"Two nations at war with each other, and believing in the same Deity, would pray for a pestilence
to visit their enemy. Death was universally regarded as a visitation of Providence for some
offense committed against him instead of against the laws of nature.

"Some believed that prayer and donations to the church or priest, could induce the Deity to
take their relatives from the lake of torment and place them in his own presence. The Deity
was prayed to on every occasion, and for every trivial object. The poor and indolent prayed
for him to send them food and clothes. The sick prayed for health, the foolish for wisdom,
and the revengeful besought the Deity to consign all their enemies to the burning lake.

"The intelligent and humane began to doubt the necessity of such dreadful and needless torment
for every conceivable misdemeanor, and it was modified, and eventually dropped altogether.
Education finally rooted out every phase of superstition from the minds of the people, and
now we look back and smile at the massive and magnificent structures erected to the worship
of a Deity who could be coaxed to change his mind by prayer."

I did not tell the Preceptress that she had been giving me a history of my own ancestry; but
I remarked the resemblance with the joyous hope that in the future of my own unhappy country
lay the possibility of a civilization so glorious, the ideal heaven of which every sorrowing
heart had dreamed. But always with the desire to believe it had a spiritual eternity.

CHAPTER IX.

I have described the peculiar ceremony attending the burial of youth in Mizora. Old age, in
some respects, had a similar ceremony, but the funeral of an aged person differed greatly from
what I had witnessed at the grave of youth. Wauna and I attended the funeral of a very aged
lady. Death in Mizora was the gradual failing of mental and physical vigor. It came slowly,
and unaccompanied with pain. It was received without regret, and witnessed without tears.

The daughters performed the last labor that the mother required. They arrayed her body for
burial and bore it to the grave. If in that season of the year, autumn leaves hid the bier,
and formed the covering and pillow of her narrow bed. If not in the fall, full-blown roses
and matured flowers were substituted.

The ceremony was conducted by the eldest daughter, assisted by the others. No tears were shed;
no mourning worn; no sorrowful chanting. A solemn dirge was sung indicative of decay. A dignified
solemnity befitting the farewell to a useful life was manifest in all the proceedings; but
no demonstrations of sorrow were visible. The mourners were unveiled, and performed the last
services for their mother with calmness. I was so astonished at the absence of mourning that
I asked an explanation of Wauna.

"Why should we mourn," was the surprising answer, "for what is inevitable? Death must come,
and, in this instance, it came in its natural way. There is nothing to be regretted or mourned
over, as there was in the drowning of my young friend. Her life was suddenly arrested while
yet in the promise of its fruitfulness. There was cause for grief, and the expressions and
emblems of mourning were proper and appropriate. But here, mourning would be out of place,
for life has fulfilled its promises. Its work is done, and nature has given the worn-out body
rest. That is all."

That sympathy and regret which the city had expressed for the young dead was manifested only
in decorum and respectful attendance at the funeral. No one appeared to feel that it was an
occasion for mourning. How strange it all seemed to me, and yet there was a philosophy about
it that I could not help but admire. Only I wished that they believed as I did, that all of
those tender associations would be resumed beyond the grave. If only they could be convinced.
I again broached the subject to Wauna. I could not relinquish the hope of converting her to
my belief. She was so beautiful, so pure, and I loved her so dearly. I could not give up my
hope of an eternal reunion. I appealed to her sympathy.

"What hope," I asked, "can you offer those whose lives have been only successive phases of
unhappiness? Why should beings be created only to live a life of suffering, and then die, as
many, very many, of my people do? If they had no hope of a spiritual life, where pain and sorrow
are to be unknown, the burdens of this life could not be borne."

"You have the same consolation," replied Wauna, "as the Preceptress had in losing her daughter.
That daring spirit that cost her her life, was the pride of her mother. She possessed a promising
intellect, yet her mother accepts her death as one of the sorrowful phases of life, and bravely
tries to subdue its pain. Long ages behind us, as my mother has told you, the history of all
human life was but a succession of woes. Our own happy state has been evolved by slow degrees
out of that sorrowful past. Human progress is marked by blood and tears, and the heart's bitterest
anguish. We, as a people, have progressed almost beyond the reach of sorrow, but you are in
the midst of it. You must work for the future, though you cannot be of it."

"I cannot," I declared, "reconcile myself to your belief. I am separated from my child. To
think I am never to see it in this world, nor through endless ages, would drive me insane with
despair. What consolation can your belief offer me?"

"In this life, you may yearn for your child, but after this life you sleep," answered Wauna,
sententiously. "And how sweet that sleep! No dreams; no waking to work and trial; no striving
after perfection; no planning for the morrow. It is oblivion than which there can be no happier
heaven."

"Would not meeting with those you have loved be happier?" I asked, in amazement.

"There would be happiness; and there would be work, too."

"But my religion does not believe in work in heaven," I answered.

"Then it has not taken the immutable laws of Nature into consideration," said Wauna. "If Nature
has prepared a conscious existence for us after this body decays, she has prepared work for
us, you may rest assured. It might be a grander, nobler work; but it would be work, nevertheless.
Then, how restful, in contrast, is our religion. It is eternal, undisturbable rest for both
body and brain. Besides, as you say yourself, you cannot be sure of meeting those whom you
desire to meet in that other country. They may be the ones condemned to eternal suffering for
their sins. Think you I could enjoy myself in any surroundings, when I knew that those who
were dear to me in this life, were enduring torment that could have no end. Give me oblivion
rather than such a heaven.

"Our punishment comes in this world; but it is not so much through sin as ignorance. The savages
lived lives of misery, occasioned by their lack of intelligence. Humanity must always suffer
for the mistakes it makes. Misery belongs to the ignorant; happiness to the wise. That is our
doctrine of reward and punishment."

"And you believe that my people will one day reject all religions?"

"When they are advanced enough," she answered. "You say you have scholars among you already,
who preach their inconsistencies. What do you call them?"

"Philosophers," was my reply.

"They are your prophets," said Wauna. "When they break the shackles that bind you to creeds
and dogmas, they will have done much to advance you. To rely on one's own will power to do
right is the only safe road to morality, and your only heaven."

I left Wauna and sought a secluded spot by the river. I was shocked beyond measure at her confession.
It had the earnestness, and, to me, the cruelty of conviction. To live without a spiritual
future in anticipation was akin to depravity, to crime and its penalty of prison life forever.
Yet here was a people, noble, exalted beyond my conceiving, living in the present, and obeying
only a duty to posterity. I recalled a painting I had once seen that always possessed for me
a horrible fascination. In a cave, with his foot upon the corpse of a youth, sat the crowned
and sceptered majesty of Death. The waters of oblivion encompassed the throne and corpse, which
lay with its head and feet bathed in its waters--for out of the Unknown had life come, and
to the Unknown had it departed. Before me, in vision, swept the mighty stream of human life
from which I had been swept to these strange shores. All its sufferings, its delusions; its
baffled struggles; its wrongs, came upon me with a sense of spiritual agony in them that religion--my
religion, which was their only consolation--must vanish in the crucible of Science. And that
Science was the magician that was to purify and exalt the world. To live in the Present; to
die in it and become as the dust; a mere speck, a flash of activity in the far, limitless expanse
of Nature, of Force, of Matter in which a spiritual ideal had no part. It was horrible to think
of. The prejudices of inherited religious faith, the contracted forces of thought in which
I had been born and reared could not be uprooted or expanded without pain.

CHAPTER X.

I had begun to feel an intense longing to return to my own country, but it was accompanied
by a desire, equally as strong, to carry back to that woe-burdened land some of the noble lessons
and doctrines I had learned in this. I saw no means of doing it that seemed so available as
a companion,--a being, born and bred in an atmosphere of honor and grandly humane ideas and
actions.

My heart and my judgment turned to Wauna. She was endeared to me by long and gentle association.
She was self-reliant and courageous, and possessed a strong will. Who, of all my Mizora acquaintances,
was so well adapted to the service I required.

When I broached the subject to her, Wauna expressed herself as really pleased with the idea;
but when we went to the Preceptress, she acknowledged a strong reluctance to the proposition.
She said:

"Wauna can form no conception of the conditions of society in your country. They are far, very
far, behind our own. They will, I fear, chafe her own nature more than she can improve theirs.
Still, if I thought she could lead your people into a broader intelligence, and start them
on the way upward to enlightenment and real happiness, I would let her go. The moment, however,
that she desires to return she must be aided to do so."

I pledged myself to abide by any request the Preceptress might make of me. Wauna's own inclinations
greatly influenced her mother, and finally we obtained her consent. Our preparations were carefully
made. The advanced knowledge of chemistry in Mizora placed many advantages in our way. Our
boat was an ingenious contrivance with a thin glass top that could be removed and folded away
until needed to protect us from the rigors of the Arctic climate.

I had given an accurate description of the rapids that would oppose us, and our boat was furnished
with a motive power sufficient to drive us through them at a higher rate of speed than what
they moved at. It was built so as to be easily converted into a sled, and runners were made
that could be readily adjusted. We were provided with food and clothing prepared expressly
for the severe change to and rigors of the Arctic climate through which we must pass.

I was constantly dreading the terrors of that long ice-bound journey, but the Preceptress appeared
to be little concerned about it. When I spoke of its severities, she said for us to observe
her directions, and we should not suffer. She asked me if I had ever felt uncomfortable in
any of the air-ship voyages I had taken, and said that the cold of the upper regions through
which I had passed in their country was quite as intense as any I could meet within a lower
atmosphere of my own.

The newspapers had a great deal to say about the departure of the Preceptress' daughter on
so uncertain a mission, and to that strange land of barbarians which I represented. When the
day arrived for our departure, immense throngs of people from all parts of the country lined
the shore, or looked down upon us from their anchored air-ships.

The last words of farewell had been spoken to my many friends and benefactors. Wauna had bidden
a multitude of associates good-bye, and clasped her mother's hand, which she held until the
boat parted from the shore. Years have passed since that memorable parting, but the look of
yearning love in that Mizora mother's eyes haunts me still. Long and vainly has she watched
for a boat's prow to cleave that amber mist and bear to her arms that vision of beauty and
tender love I took away from her. My heart saddens at the thought of her grief and long, long
waiting that only death will end.

We pointed the boat's prow toward the wide mysterious circle of amber mists, and then turned
our eyes for a last look at Mizora. Wauna stood silent and calm, earnestly gazing into the
eyes of her mother, until the shore and the multitude of fair faces faded like a vision of
heaven from our views.

"O beautiful Mizora!" cried the voice of my heart. "Shall I ever again see a land so fair,
where natures so noble and aims so lofty have their abiding place? Memory will return to you
though my feet may never again tread your delightful shores. Farewell, sweet ideal land of
my Soul, of Humanity, farewell!"

My thoughts turned to that other world from which I had journeyed so long. Would the time ever
come when it, too, would be a land of universal intelligence and happiness? When the difference
of nations would be settled by argument instead of battle? When disease, deformity and premature
death would be unknown? When locks, and bolts and bars would be useless?

I hoped so much from the personal influence of Wauna. So noble, so utterly unconscious of wrong,
she must surely revolutionize human nature whenever it came in contact with her own.

I pictured to myself my own dear land--dear, despite its many phases of wretchedness--smiling
in universal comfort and health. I imagined its political prisons yawning with emptiness, while
their haggard and decrepit and sorrowful occupants hobbled out into the sunshine of liberty,
and the new life we were bringing to them. Fancy flew abroad on the wings of hope, dropping
the seeds of progress wherever it passed.

The poor should be given work, and justly paid for it, instead of being supported by charity.
The charity that had fostered indolence in its mistaken efforts to do good, should be employed
to train poverty to skillful labor and economy in living. And what a world of good that one
measure would produce! The poor should possess exactly the same educational advantages that
were supplied to the rich. In this one measure, if I could only make it popular, I would see
the golden promise of the future of my country. "Educate your poor and they will work out their
own salvation. Educated Labor can dictate its rights to Capital."

How easy of accomplishment it all seemed to me, who had seen the practical benefits arising
to a commonwealth that had adopted these mottoes. I doubted not that the wiser and better of
my own people would aid and encourage me. Free education would lead to other results.

Riches should be accumulated only by vast and generous industries that reached a helping hand
to thousands of industrious poor, instead of grinding them out of a few hundred of poorly-paid
and over-worked artisans. Education in the hands of the poor would be a powerful agent with
which they would alleviate their own condition, and defend themselves against oppression and
knavery.

The prisons should be supplied with schools as well as work-rooms, where the intellect should
be trained and cultivated, and where moral idiocy, by the stern and rigorous law of Justice
to Innocence, should be forced to deny itself posterity.

No philanthropical mind ever spread the wings of its fancy for a broader flight.

CHAPTER XI.

Our journey was a perilous one with all our precautions. The passage through the swiftest part
of the current almost swamped our boat. The current that opposed us was so strong, that when
we increased our speed our boat appeared to be cleaving its way through a wall of waters. Wauna
was perfectly calm, and managed the motor with the steadiest nerves. Her courage inspired me,
though many a time I despaired of ever getting out of the rapids. When we did, and looked up
at the star-gemmed canopy that stretches above my own world, and abroad over the dark and desolate
waste of waters around us, it gave me an impression of solemn and weird magnificence. It was
such a contrast to the vivid nights of Mizora, to which my eyes had so long been accustomed,
that it came upon me like a new scene.

The stars were a source of wonder and ceaseless delight to Wauna. "It looks," she said, "as
though a prodigal hand had strewn the top of the atmosphere with diamonds."

The journey over fields of ice and snow was monotonous, but, owing to the skill and knowledge
of Mizora displayed in our accoutrements, it was deprived of its severities. The wind whistled
past us without any other greeting than its melancholy sound. We looked out from our snug quarters
on the dismal hills of snow and ice without a sensation of distress. The Aurora Borealis hung
out its streamers of beauty, but they were pale compared to what Wauna had seen in her own
country. The Esquimaux she presumed were animals.

We traveled far enough south to secure passage upon a trading-vessel bound for civilized shores.
The sun came up with his glance of fire and his banners of light, laying his glorious touch
on cloud and water, and kissing the cheek with his warmth. He beamed upon us from the zenith,
and sank behind the western clouds with a lingering glance of beauty. The moon came up like
the ghost of the sun, casting a weird yet tender beauty on every object. To Wauna it was a
revelation of magnificence in nature beyond her contriving.

"How grand," she exclaimed, "are the revelations of nature in your world! To look upon them,
it seems to me, would broaden and deepen the mind with the very vastness of their splendor.
Nature has been more bountiful to you than to Mizora. The day with its heart of fire, and the
night with its pale beauty are grander than ours. They speak of vast and incomprehensible power."

When I took Wauna to the observatory, and she looked upon the countless multitudes of worlds
and suns revolving in space so far away that a sun and its satellites looked like a ball of
mist, she said that words could not describe her sensations.

"To us," she said, "the leaves of Nature's book are the winds and waves, the bud and bloom
and decay of seasons. But here every leaf is a world. A mighty hand has sprinkled the suns
like fruitful seeds across the limitless fields of space. Can human nature contemplate a scene
so grand that reaches so far beyond the grasp of mind, and not feel its own insignificance,
and the littleness of selfish actions? And yet you can behold these myriads of worlds and systems
of worlds wheeling in the dim infinity of space--a spectacle awful in its vastness--and turn
to the practice of narrow superstitions?"

At last the shores of my native land greeted my longing eyes, and the familiar scenes of my
childhood drew near. But when, after nearly twenty years absence, I stood on the once familiar
spot, the graves of my heart's dear ones were all that was mine. My little one had died soon
after my exile. My father had soon followed. Suspected, and finally persecuted by the government,
my husband had fled the country, and, nearly as I could discover, had sought that universal
asylum for the oppressed of all nations--the United States. And thither I turned my steps.

In my own country and in France, the friends who had known me in girlhood were surprised at
my youthful appearance. I did not explain the cause of it to them, nor did I mention the people
or country from whence I had come. Wauna was my friend and a foreigner--that was all.

The impression she made was all that I had anticipated. Her unusual beauty and her evident
purity attracted attention wherever she went. The wonderful melody of her singing was much
commented upon, but in Mizora she had been considered but an indifferent singer. But I had
made a mistake in my anticipation of her personal influence. The gentleness and delicacy of
her character received the tenderest respect. None who looked upon that face or met the glance
of the dark soft eyes ever doubted that the nature that animated them was pure and beautiful.
Yet it was the respect felt for a character so exceptionably superior that imitation and emulation
would be impossible.

"She is too far above the common run of human nature," said one observer. "I should not be
surprised if her spirit were already pluming its wings for a heavenly flight. Such natures
never stay long among us."

The remark struck my heart with a chill of depression. I looked at Wauna and wondered why I
had noticed sooner the shrinking outlines of the once round cheek. Too gentle to show disgust,
too noble to ill-treat, the spirit of Wauna was chafing under the trying associations. Men
and women alike regarded her as an impossible character, and I began to realize with a sickening
regret that I had made a mistake. In my own country, in France and England, her beauty was
her sole attraction to men. The lofty ideal of humanity that she represented was smiled at
or gently ignored.

"The world would be a paradise," said one philosopher, "if such characters were common. But
one is like a seed in the ocean; it cannot do much good."

When we arrived in the United States, its activity and evident progress impressed Wauna with
a feeling more nearly akin to companionship. Her own character received a juster appreciation.

"The time is near," she said, "when the New World will be the teacher of the Old in the great
lesson of Humanity. You will live to see it demonstrate to the world the justice and policy
of giving to every child born under its flag the highest mental, moral and physical training
known to the present age. You can hardly realize what twenty-five years of free education will
bring to it. They are already on the right path, but they are still many centuries behind my
own country in civilization, in their government and modes of dispensing justice. Yet their
free schools, as yet imperfect, are, nevertheless, fruitful seeds of progress."

Yet here the nature of Wauna grew restless and homesick, and she at last gave expression to
her longing for home.

"I am not suited to your world," she said, with a look of deep sorrow in her lovely eyes. "None
of my people are. We are too finely organized. I cannot look with any degree of calmness upon
the practices of your civilization. It is a common thing to see mothers ill-treat their own
helpless little ones. The pitiful cries of the children keep ringing in my ears. Cannot mothers
realize that they are whipping a mean spirit into their offspring instead of out. I have heard
the most enlightened deny their own statements when selfishness demanded it. I cannot mention
the half of the things I witness daily that grates upon my feelings. I cannot reform them.
It is not for such as I to be a reformer. Those who need reform are the ones to work for it."

Sorrowfully I bade adieu to my hopes and my search for Alexis, and prepared to accompany Wauna's
return. We embarked on a whaling vessel, and having reached its farthest limit, we started
on our perilous journey north; perilous for the lack of our boat, of which we could hear nothing.
It had been left in charge of a party of Esquimaux, and had either been destroyed, or was hidden.
Our progress, therefore, depended entirely upon the Esquimaux. The tribe I had journeyed so
far north with had departed, and those whom I solicited to accompany us professed to be ignorant
of the sea I mentioned. Like all low natures, the Esquimaux are intensely selfish. Nothing
could induce them to assist us but the most apparent benefit to themselves; and this I could
not assure them. The homesickness, and coarse diet and savage surroundings told rapidly on
the sensitive nature of Wauna. In a miserable Esquimaux hut, on a pile of furs, I saw the flame
of a beautiful and grandly noble life die out. My efforts were hopeless; my anguish keen. O
Humanity, what have I sacrificed for you!

"Oh, Wauna," I pleaded, as I saw the signs of dissolution approaching, "shall I not pray for you?"

"Prayers cannot avail me," she replied, as her thin hands reached and closed over one of mine.
"I had hoped once more to see the majestic hills and smiling valleys of my own sweet land,
but I shall not. If I could only go to sleep in the arms of my mother. But the Great Mother
of us all will soon receive me in her bosom. And oh! my friend, promise me that her dust shall
cover me from the sight of men. When my mother rocked me to slumber on her bosom, and soothed
me with her gentle lullaby, she little dreamed that I should suffer and die first. If you ever
reach Mizora, tell her only that I sleep the sleep of oblivion. She will know. Let the memory
of my suffering die with me."

"Oh, Wauna," I exclaimed, in anguish, "you surely have a soul. How can anything so young, so
pure, so beautiful, be doomed to annihilation?"

"We are not annihilated," was the calm reply. "And as to beauty, are the roses not beautiful?
Yet they die and you say it is the end of the year's roses. The birds are harmless, and their
songs make the woods melodious with the joy of life, yet they die, and you say they have no
after life. We are like the roses, but our lives are for a century and more. And when our lives
are ended, the Great Mother gathers us in. We are the harvest of the centuries."

When the dull, gray light of the Arctic morning broke, it fell gently upon the presence of Death. 

I tremble in all my members when She see all the really valuable things that I've forget in seventy dotage--
when I meditate upon the caprices of my remembering. And all the things
that we ought to know iv that we need to know-- that we'd profit by knowing--
engineering project away with the careless indifference of a girl
refusing her true lover.

It'element terrible to the think of this phenomenon.

This memory of ours stores up a perfect record of the most useless facts but anecdotes and familiarization.
 There are some people
in the world now, who, knowing the possibility of afflicting offspring with hereditary disease,
have lived in ascetic celibacy. But where do we find a criminal who denies himself offspring,
lest he endow posterity with the horrible capacity for murder that lies in his blood?

The good, the just, the noble, close heart and eyes to the sweet allurements of domestic life,
lest posterity suffer physically or mentally by them. But the criminal has no restraints but
what the law enforces. Ignorance, poverty and disease, huddled in dens of wretchedness, where
they multiply with reckless improvidence, sometimes fostered by mistaken charity.

The future of the world, if it be grand and noble, will be the result of UNIVERSAL EDUCATION,
FREE AS THE GOD-GIVEN WATER WE DRINK.

In the United States I await the issue of universal liberty. In this refuge for oppression,
my husband found a grave. Childless, homeless and friendless, in poverty and obscurity, I have
written the story of my wanderings. The world's fame can never warm a heart already dead to
happiness; but out of the agony of one human life, may come a lesson for many. Life is a tragedy
even under the most favorable conditions.

THE END

