At this Pete seemed to forget all about Apollo and his case, and he remarked that he never
could see what some folks saw in city niggers, nohow--and neither could Apollo. And they felt
a momentary sense of nearness to each other that was not exactly a bond, but they did not talk
any more as they walked along.

It is probable that the coming of the "city fellow" into her circle hastened to culmination
more than one pending romance, and there were now various and sundry coldnesses existing between
Lily and a number of the boys on the place, where there had recently existed only warm and
hopeful friendships. The intruder, who had a way of shrugging his shoulders and declaring of
almost any question, "Well, me, I dun'no'," seemed altogether too sure when it came to a question
of Lily. At least so he appeared to her more timid rural lovers.

                  *          *          *          *

The Christmas-eve dance in the sugar-house had been for years an annual function on the plantation.
At this, since her début, at fourteen, three Christmases before, Lily had held undisputed sway,
and all former belles amiably accepted their places as lesser lights. But there had been some
quarrelling and even a fight or two on Lily's account, indirectly, and the church people had
declared against the ball, on the score of domestic peace on the place. They had fought dancing
per se as long as they could, but Terpsichore finally waltzed up the church aisle, figuratively
speaking, and flaunted her ruffled skirts in the very faces of elders and minister, and they
had had to smile and give her a pew to keep her still. And she was in the church yet, a troublemaker
sometimes, and a disturber of spiritual peace--but still there.

If they had forcibly ejected her, some of their most promising and important members would
have followed. But they could preach to her, and so they did. Mayhap in time they would convert
her and have her and her numerous votaries for their own. As the reverend brother thundered
out his denunciations of the ungodly goddess he cast his eyes often in the direction of the
leading dancer, and from her they would wander to the small fiddler who sat beside the tall
hat in a back pew. But somehow neither Lily nor Apollo seemed in the least conscious of any
personal appeal in his glance, and when finally the question of the Christmas ball was put
to vote, they both rose and unequivocally voted for it. So, for that matter, did so large a
majority that one of the elders got up and proposed that the church hold revival meetings,
in the hope of rousing her people to a realization of her dangers. And then Lily whispered
something to her neighbor, a good old man of the church, and he stood up and announced that
Miss Lily Washington proposed to have the revival after Christmas. There was some laughter
at this, and the pastor very seriously objected to it as thwarting the very object for which
the meetings would be held; and then, seeing herself in danger of being vanquished in argument,
Lily, blushing a fine copper-color in real maidenly embarrassment, rose in the presence of
the congregation, to say that when she proposed to have the revival after Christmas, she "didn't
mean no harm." She was only thinking that "it was a heap better to repent 'n to backslide."

This brought down the house, an expression not usually employed in this connection, but which
seems to force its way here as particularly fitting. As soon as he could get a hearing the
reverend brother gave out a hymn, followed it with a short prayer, and dismissed the congregation.
And on the Sunday following he gave notice that for several reasons it had been decided as
expedient to postpone the revival meetings in the church until after Christmas. No doubt he
had come over to Lily's way of thinking.

Lily was perfectly ravishing in her splendor at the dance. The white Swiss frock she wore was
high in the neck, but her brown shoulders and arms shone through the thin fabric with fine
effect. About her slim waist she tied a narrow ribbon of blue, and she carried a pink feather
fan, and the wreath about her forehead was of lilies-of-the-valley. She had done a day's scouring
for them, and they had come out of the summer hat of one of the white ladies on the coast.
This insured their quality, and no doubt contributed somewhat to the quiet serenity with which
she bore herself as, with her little head held like that of the Venus of Milo, she danced down
the centre of the room, holding her flounces in either hand, and kicking the floor until she
kicked both her slippers to pieces, when she finished the figure in her stocking feet.

She had a relay of slippers ready, and there was a scramble as to who should put them on; but
she settled that question by making 'Pollo rise, with his fiddle in his arms, and lend her
his chair for a minute while she pulled them on herself. Then she let Pete and Pierre each
have one of the discarded slippers as a trophy. Lily had always danced out several pairs of
slippers at the Christmas dance, but she had never achieved her stocking feet in the first
round until now, and she was in high glee over it. If she had been admired before, she was
looked upon as a raving, tearing beauty to-night--and so she was. Fortunately 'Pollo had his
fiddling to do, and this saved him from any conspicuous folly. But he kept his eyes on her,
and when she grew too ravishingly lovely to his fond vision, and he couldn't stand it a minute
longer in silence, he turned to the man next him, who played the bones, and remarked, "Ef--ef
anybody but Gord A'mighty had a-made anything as purty as Miss Lily, dey'd 'a' stinted it somewhar,"
and, watching every turn, he lent his bow to her varying moods while she tired out one dancer
after another. It was the New Orleans fellow who first lost his head utterly. He had danced
with her but three times, but while she took another's hand and whizzed through the figures
he scarcely took his eyes from her, and when, at about midnight, he succeeded in getting her
apart for a promenade, he poured forth his soul to her in the picturesque English of the quadroon
quarter of New Orleans. "An' now, to proof to you my lorv, Ma'm'selle Lee-lee"--he gesticulated
vigorously as he spoke--"I am geeving you wan beau-u-tiful Christmas present--I am goin' to
geeve you--w'at you t'ink? My borgee!" With this he turned dramatically and faced her. They
were standing now under the shed outside the door in the moonlight, and, although they did
not see him, Apollo stood within hearing, behind a pile of molasses-barrels, where he had come
"to cool off."

Lily had several times been "buggy-ridin'" with Pierre in this same "borgee," and it was a
very magnificent affair in her eyes. When he told her that it was to be hers she gasped. Such
presents were unknown on the plantation. But Lily was a "mannerly" member of good society,
if her circle was small, and she was not to be taken aback by any compliment a man should pay
her. She simply fanned herself, a little flurriedly, perhaps, with her feather fan, as she
said: "You sho' must be jokin', Mr. Pier. You cert'n'y must." Mr. SYMONS'similes are essentially urban;
the sea (to fact there is at fine) has after him "something as color of absinthe peters" As reasonable,
though she can and does not tell into his pages do much exhilaration of pier over turning a mr and drop
"smelling as his honey," one retains throughout a consciousness of Leman. I could have left myself
too short space after for other papers, among which to do i was delighted to seem again that called
"Remarked pierre 1895," random retrieve from a Pierre (though here, of his buggy, lacking the
interpretation to the BEARDSLEY drawings). Certainly has a book to read at leisure keep "for further
reference," perhaps in a travel studies there may again to go of more
than merely sentimental interest.
 He has jest presented me wid his
yaller-wheeled buggy, an' I sho' is proud of it." Then, turning to Pierre, she added, "You
sho' is a mighty generous gen'leman, Mr. Pier--you cert'n'y is."

Peters gave Lily one startled look, but he instantly realized, from her ingenuous manner, that
there was nothing back of the gift of the buggy--that is, it had been, so far as she was concerned,
simply a Christmas present. Pierre had not offered himself with the gift. And if this were
so, well, he reckoned he could match him.

He reached forward and took Lily's fan from her hand. He hastened to do this to keep Pierre
from taking it. Then, while he fanned her, he said, "Is dat so, Miss Lily, dat Mr. Pier is
give you a buggy? Dat sholy is a fine Christmas gif'--it sho' is. An' sence you fin' yo'se'f
possessed of a buggy, I trust you will allow me de pleasure of presentin' you wid a horse to
drive in de buggy." He made a graceful bow as he spoke, a bow that would have done credit to
the man from New Orleans. It was so well done, indeed, that Lily unconsciously bowed in return,
as she said, with a look that savored a little of roguishness: "Oh, hursh, Mr. Peters! You
des a-guyin' me--dat what you doin'."

"Guyin' nothin'," said Peters, grinning broadly as he noted the expression of Pierre's face.
"Ef you'll jes do me de honor to accep' of my horse, Miss Lily, I'll be de proudest gen'leman
on dis plantation."

At this she chuckled, and took her fan in her own hand. And then she turned to Pierre. "You
sho' has set de style o' mighty expensive Christmas gif's on dis plantation, Mr. Pier--you
cert'n'y has. An' I wants to thank you bofe mos' kindly--I cert'n'y does."

Having heard this much, 'Pollo thought it time to come from his hiding, and he strolled leisurely
out in the other direction first, but soon returned this way. And then he stopped, and reaching
over, took the feather fan--and for a few moments he had his innings. Then some one else came
along and the conversation became impersonal, and one by one they all dropped off--all except
'Pollo. When the rest had gone he and Lily found seats on the cane-carrier, and they talked
a while, and when a little later supper was announced, it was the proud fiddler who took her
in, while Pierre and Peters stood off and politely glared at each other; and after a while
Pierre must have said something, for Peters suddenly sprang at him and tumbled him out the
door and rolled him over in the dirt, and they had to be separated. But presently they laughed
and shook hands, and Pierre offered Pete a cigarette, and Pete took it, and gave Pierre a light--and
it was all over.

                  *          *          *          *

It was next day--Christmas morning--and the young people were standing about in groups under
the China-trees in the campus, when Apollo joined them, looking unusually chipper and beaming.
He was dressed in his best--Prince Albert, beaver, and all--and he sported a bright silk handkerchief
tied loosely about his neck.

He was altogether a delightful figure, absolutely content with himself, and apparently at peace
with the world. No sooner had he joined the crowd than the fellows began chaffing him, as usual,
and presently some one mentioned Lily's name and spoke of her presents. The two men who had
broken the record for generosity in the history of plantation lovers were looked upon as nabobs
by those of lesser means. Of course everybody knew the city fellow had started it, and they
were glad Peters had come to time and saved the dignity of the place; indeed he was about the
only one on the plantation who could have done it.

As they stood talking it over the two heroes had nothing to say, of course, and 'Pollo began
rolling a cigarette--an art he had learned from the man from New Orleans.

Finally he remarked, "Yas, Miss Lily got sev'al mighty nice presents last night."

At this Pierre turned, laughing, and said, "I s'pose you geeve 'er somet'ing too, eh?"

"Pity you hadn't a-give her dat silk hankcher. Hit'd become her a heap better'n it becomes
you," Peters said, laughing.

"Yas, I reckon it would," said 'Pollo; "but de fact is she gi' me dis hankcher--an' of co'se
I accepted it."

"But why ain't you tellin' us what you give her?" insisted Peters.

'Pollo put the cigarette to his lips, deliberately lit it, puffed several times, and then,
removing it in a leisurely way, he drawled:

"Well, de fact is I heerd Mr. Pier here give her a buggy, an'--an' Mr. Peters, he up an' handed
over a horse,--an' so, quick as I got a chance, I des balanced my ekalub'ium an' went an' set
down beside her an' ast her ef she wouldn't do me de honor to accep' of a driver, an'--an'
she say yas.

"You know I'm a coachman by trade.

"An' dat's huccome I come to say she got sev'al presents las' night."

And he took another puff of his cigarette.

NEAREST OF KIN

(ON THE PLANTATION)

When Tamar the laundress was married to the coachman Pompey, there was a big time on the plantation.
Tamar wore white tarlatan and an orange wreath--although it was her severalth marriage--and
she had six bridemaids and a train-bearer. The last, a slim little black girl of about ten
years, was dressed somewhat after the fashion of the ballet, in green tarlatan with spangles,
and her slender legs were carefully wrapped with gilt paper that glistened through the clocked
stockings with fine effect. Otherwise the "clockings" in the black stockinet would have lost
their value.

Pompey, as groom, was resplendent in the full glare of a white duck suit, and he wore a rosette
of satin ribbon--"so's to 'stinguish him out f'om de groomsmen," each of whom was likewise
"ducked" out in immaculate linen; and if there were some suggestive misfits among them, there
were ample laundry compensations in the way of starch and polish--a proud achievement of the bride.

There was a good deal of marching up and down the aisles of the church by the entire party
before the ceremony, which was, altogether, really very effective. Pompey was as black as his
bride, and his face was as carefully oiled and polished for the occasion as hers, which is
saying a good deal, both as to color and shine.

After the ceremony everybody repaired, for a supper and dance, to the sugar-house, where there
was a bride's cake, with all the usual accessories, such as the ring and thimble, to be cut
for. And of course, before the end of the evening, there was the usual distribution of bits
of cake to be "dreamed on." This last, indeed, was so important that nearly every girl on the
plantation slept in a neighbor's cabin that night, so as to command the full potency of the
charm by dreaming her great dream in a strange bed. The whole wedding was, in fact, so disturbing
a social function that everything on the place was more or less disarranged by it--even the
breakfast hour at the great house, which was fully three-quarters of an hour late next morning.
But that was no great matter, as all the family had been witnesses to the wedding and were
somewhat sleepy in consequence--and the "rising-bell" was a movable form anyway.

