And then there came suddenly the railway and the steamship, the former opening with extraordinary
abruptness a series of vast through-routes for trade, the latter enormously increasing the
security and economy of the traffic on the old water routes. For a time neither of these inventions
was applied to the needs of intra-urban transit at all. For a time they were purely centripetal
forces. They worked simply to increase the general volume of trade, to increase, that is, the
pressure of population upon the urban centres. As a consequence the social history of the middle
and later thirds of the nineteenth century, not simply in England but all over the civilized
world, is the history of a gigantic rush of population into the magic radius of--for most people--four
miles, to suffer there physical and moral disaster less acute but, finally, far more appalling
to the imagination than any famine or pestilence that ever swept the world. Well has Mr. George
Gissing named nineteenth-century London in one of his great novels the "Whirlpool," the very
figure for the nineteenth-century Great City, attractive, tumultuous, and spinning down to death.

But, indeed, these great cities are no permanent maëlstroms. These new forces, at present still
so potently centripetal in their influence, bring with them, nevertheless, the distinct promise
of a centrifugal application that may be finally equal to the complete reduction of all our
present congestions. The limit of the pre-railway city was the limit of man and horse. But
already that limit has been exceeded, and each day brings us nearer to the time when it will
be thrust outward in every direction with an effect of enormous relief.

So far the only additions to the foot and horse of the old dispensation that have actually
come into operation, are the suburban railways, which render possible an average door to office
hour's journey of ten or a dozen miles--further only in the case of some specially favoured
localities. The star-shaped contour of the modern great city, thrusting out arms along every
available railway line, knotted arms of which every knot marks a station, testify sufficiently
to the relief of pressure thus afforded. Great Towns before this century presented rounded
contours and grew as a puff-ball swells; the modern Great City looks like something that has
burst an intolerable envelope and splashed. But, as our previous paper has sought to make clear,
these suburban railways are the mere first rough expedient of far more convenient and rapid
developments.

We are--as the Census Returns for 1901 quite clearly show--in the early phase of a great development
of centrifugal possibilities. And since it has been shown that a city of pedestrians is inexorably
limited by a radius of about four miles, and that a horse-using city may grow out to seven
or eight, it follows that the available area of a city which can offer a cheap suburban journey
of thirty miles an hour is a circle with a radius of thirty miles. And is it too much, therefore,
in view of all that has been adduced in this and the previous paper, to expect that the available
area for even the common daily toilers of the great city of the year 2000, or earlier, will
have a radius very much larger even than that? Now, a circle with a radius of thirty miles
gives an area of over 2800 square miles, which is almost a quarter that of Belgium. But thirty
miles is only a very moderate estimate of speed, and the reader of the former paper will agree,
I think, that the available area for the social equivalent of the favoured season-ticket holders
of to-day will have a radius of over one hundred miles, and be almost equal to the area of
Ireland.[17] The radius that will sweep the area available for such as now live in the outer
suburbs will include a still vaster area. Indeed, it is not too much to say that the London
citizen of the year 2000 A.D. may have a choice of nearly all England and Wales south of Nottingham
and east of Exeter as his suburb, and that the vast stretch of country from Washington to Albany
will be all of it "available" to the active citizen of New York and Philadelphia before that date.

This does not for a moment imply that cities of the density of our existing great cities will
spread to these limits. Even if we were to suppose the increase of the populations of the great
cities to go on at its present rate, this enormous extension of available area would still
mean a great possibility of diffusion. But though most great cities are probably still very
far from their maxima, though the network of feeding railways has still to spread over Africa
and China, and though huge areas are still imperfectly productive for want of a cultivating
population, yet it is well to remember that for each great city, quite irrespective of its
available spaces, a maximum of population is fixed. Each great city is sustained finally by
the trade and production of a certain proportion of the world's surface--by the area it commands
commercially. The great city cannot grow, except as a result of some quite morbid and transitory
process--to be cured at last by famine and disorder--beyond the limit the commercial capacity
of that commanded area prescribes. Long before the population of this city, with its inner
circle a third of the area of Belgium, rose towards the old-fashioned city density, this restriction
would come in. Even if we allowed for considerable increase in the production of food stuffs
in the future, it still remains inevitable that the increase of each city in the world must
come at last upon arrest.

Yet, though one may find reasons for anticipating that this city will in the end overtake and
surpass that one and such-like relative prophesying, it is difficult to find any data from
which to infer the absolute numerical limits of these various diffused cities. Or perhaps it
is more seemly to admit that no such data have occurred to the writer. So far as London, St.
Petersburg, and Berlin go, it seems fairly safe to assume that they will go well over twenty
millions; and that New York, Philadelphia, and Chicago will probably, and Hankow almost certainly,
reach forty millions. Yet even forty millions over thirty-one thousand square miles of territory
is, in comparison with four millions over fifty square miles, a highly diffused population.

How far will that possible diffusion accomplish itself? Let us first of all consider the case
of those classes that will be free to exercise a choice in the matter, and we shall then be
in a better position to consider those more numerous classes whose general circumstances are
practically dictated to them. What will be the forces acting upon the prosperous household,
the household with a working head and four hundred a year and upwards to live upon, in the
days to come? Will the resultant of these forces be, as a rule, centripetal or centrifugal?
Will such householders in the greater London of 2000 A.D. still cluster for the most part,
as they do to-day, in a group of suburbs as close to London as is compatible with a certain
fashionable maximum of garden space and air; or will they leave the ripened gardens and the
no longer brilliant villas of Surbiton and Norwood, Tooting and Beckenham, to other and less
independent people? First, let us weigh the centrifugal attractions.

The first of these is what is known as the passion for nature, that passion for hillside, wind,
and sea that is evident in so many people nowadays, either frankly expressed or disguising
itself as a passion for golfing, fishing, hunting, yachting, or cycling; and, secondly, there
is the allied charm of cultivation, and especially of gardening, a charm that is partly also
the love of dominion, perhaps, and partly a personal love for the beauty of trees and flowers
and natural things. Through that we come to a third factor, that craving--strongest, perhaps,
in those Low German peoples, who are now ascendant throughout the world--for a little private
imperium such as a house or cottage "in its own grounds" affords; and from that we pass on
to the intense desire so many women feel--and just the women, too, who will mother the future--their
almost instinctive demand, indeed, for a household, a separate sacred and distinctive household,
built and ordered after their own hearts, such as in its fulness only the country-side permits.
Add to these things the healthfulness of the country for young children, and the wholesome
isolation that is possible from much that irritates, stimulates prematurely, and corrupts in
crowded centres, and the chief positive centrifugal inducements are stated, inducements that
no progress of inventions, at any rate, can ever seriously weaken. What now are the centripetal
forces against which these inducements contend?

In the first place, there are a group of forces that will diminish in strength. There is at
present the greater convenience of "shopping" within a short radius of the centre of the great
city, a very important consideration indeed to many wives and mothers. All the inner and many
of the outer suburbs of London obtain an enormous proportion of the ordinary household goods
from half a dozen huge furniture, grocery, and drapery firms, each of which has been enabled
by the dearness and inefficiency of the parcels distribution of the post-office and railways
to elaborate a now very efficient private system of taking orders and delivering goods. Collectively
these great businesses have been able to establish a sort of monopoly of suburban trade, to
overwhelm the small suburban general tradesman (a fate that was inevitable for him in some
way or other), and--which is a positive world-wide misfortune--to overwhelm also many highly
specialized shops and dealers of the central district. Suburban people nowadays get their wine
and their novels, their clothes and their amusements, their furniture and their food, from
some one vast indiscriminate shop or "store" full of respectable mediocre goods, as excellent
a thing for housekeeping as it is disastrous to taste and individuality.[18] But it is doubtful
if the delivery organization of these great stores is any more permanent than the token coinage
of the tradespeople of the last century. Just as it was with that interesting development,
so now it is with parcels distribution: private enterprise supplies in a partial manner a public
need, and with the organization of a public parcels and goods delivery on cheap and sane lines
in the place of our present complex, stupid, confusing, untrustworthy, and fantastically costly
chaos of post-office, railways, and carriers, it is quite conceivable that Messrs. Omnium will
give place again to specialized shops.

It must always be remembered how timid, tentative, and dear the postal and telephone services
of even the most civilized countries still are, and how inexorably the needs of revenue, public
profit, and convenience fight in these departments against the tradition of official leisure
and dignity. There is no reason now, except that the thing is not yet properly organized, why
a telephone call from any point in such a small country as England to any other should cost
much more than a postcard. There is no reason now, save railway rivalries and retail ideas--obstacles
some able and active man is certain to sweep away sooner or later--why the post-office should
not deliver parcels anywhere within a radius of a hundred miles in a few hours at a penny or
less for a pound and a little over,[19] put our newspapers in our letter-boxes direct from
the printing-office, and, in fact, hand in nearly every constant need of the civilized household,
except possibly butcher's meat, coals, green-grocery, and drink. And since there is no reason,
but quite removable obstacles, to prevent this development of the post-office, I imagine it
will be doing all these things within the next half-century. When it is, this particular centripetal
pull, at any rate, will have altogether ceased to operate.

A second important centripetal consideration at present is the desirability of access to good
schools and to the doctor. To leave the great centres is either to abandon one's children,
or to buy air for them at the cost of educational disadvantages. But access, be it noted, is
another word for transit. It is doubtful if these two needs will so much keep people close
to the great city centres as draw them together about secondary centres. New centres they may
be--compare Hindhead, for example--in many cases; but also, it may be, in many cases the more
healthy and picturesque of the existing small towns will develop a new life. Already, in the
case of the London area, such once practically autonomous places as Guildford, Tunbridge Wells,
and Godalming have become economically the centres of lax suburbs, and the same fate may very
probably overtake, for example, Shrewsbury, Stratford, and Exeter, and remoter and yet remoter
townships. Indeed, for all that this particular centripetal force can do, the confluent "residential
suburbs" of London, of the great Lancashire-Yorkshire city, and of the Scotch city, may quite
conceivably replace the summer lodging-house watering-places of to-day, and extend themselves
right round the coast of Great Britain, before the end of the next century, and every open
space of mountain and heather be dotted--not too thickly--with clumps of prosperous houses
about school, doctor, engineers, book and provision shops.

A third centripetal force will not be set aside so easily. The direct antagonist it is to that
love of nature that drives people out to moor and mountain. One may call it the love of the
crowd; and closely allied to it is that love of the theatre which holds so many people in bondage
to the Strand. Charles Lamb was the Richard Jefferies of this group of tendencies, and the
current disposition to exaggerate the opposition force, especially among English-speaking peoples,
should not bind us to the reality of their strength. Moreover, interweaving with these influences
that draw people together are other more egotistical and intenser motives, ardent in youth
and by no means--to judge by the Folkestone Leas--extinct in age, the love of dress, the love
of the crush, the hot passion for the promenade. Here, no doubt, what one may speak of loosely
as "racial" characteristics count for much. The common actor and actress of all nationalities,
the Neapolitan, the modern Roman, the Parisian, the Hindoo, I am told, and that new and interesting
type, the rich and liberated Jew emerging from his Ghetto and free now absolutely to show what
stuff he is made of, flame out most gloriously in this direction. To a certain extent this
group of tendencies may lead to the formation of new secondary centres within the "available"
area, theatrical and musical centres--centres of extreme Fashion and Selectness, centres of
smartness and opulent display--but it is probable that for the large number of people throughout
the world who cannot afford to maintain households in duplicate these will be for many years
yet strictly centripetal forces, and will keep them within the radius marked by whatever will
be the future equivalent in length of, say, the present two-shilling cab ride in London.

And, after all, for all such "shopping" as one cannot do by telephone or postcard, it will
still be natural for the shops to be gathered together in some central place. And "shopping"
needs refreshment, and may culminate in relaxation. So that Bond Street and Regent Street,
the Boulevard des Capuchins, the Corso, and Broadway will still be brilliant and crowded for
many years for all the diffusion that is here forecast--all the more brilliant and crowded,
perhaps, for the lack of a thronging horse traffic down their central ways. But the very fact
that the old nucleus is still to be the best place for all who trade in a concourse of people,
for novelty shops and art shops, and theatres and business buildings, by keeping up the central
ground values will operate against residence there and shift the "masses" outwardly.

And once people have been driven into cab, train, or omnibus, the only reason why they should
get out to a residence here rather than there is the necessity of saving time, and such a violent
upward gradient of fares as will quite outbalance the downward gradient of ground values. We
have, however, already forecast a swift, varied, and inevitably competitive suburban traffic.
And so, though the centre will probably still remain the centre and "Town," it will be essentially
a bazaar, a great gallery of shops and places of concourse and rendezvous, a pedestrian place,
its pathways reinforced by lifts and moving platforms, and shielded from the weather, and altogether
a very spacious, brilliant, and entertaining agglomeration.

Enough now has been said to determine the general nature of the expansion of the great cities
in the future, so far as the more prosperous classes are concerned. It will not be a regular
diffusion like the diffusion of a gas, but a process of throwing out the "homes," and of segregating
various types of people. The omens seem to point pretty unmistakably to a wide and quite unprecedented
diversity in the various suburban townships and suburban districts. Of that aspect of the matter
a later paper must treat. It is evident that from the outset racial and national characteristics
will tell in this diffusion. We are getting near the end of the great Democratic, Wholesale,
or Homogeneous phase in the world's history. The sport-loving Englishman, the sociable Frenchman,
the vehement American will each diffuse his own great city in his own way.

And now, how will the increase in the facilities of communication we have assumed affect the
condition of those whose circumstances are more largely dictated by economic forces? The mere
diffusion of a large proportion of the prosperous and relatively free, and the multiplication
of various types of road and mechanical traction, means, of course, that in this way alone
a perceptible diffusion of the less independent classes will occur. To the subsidiary centres
will be drawn doctor and schoolmaster, and various dealers in fresh provisions, baker, grocer,
butcher; or if they are already established there they will flourish more and more, and about
them the convenient home of the future, with its numerous electrical and mechanical appliances,
and the various bicycles, motor-cars, photographic and phonographic apparatus that will be
included in its equipment will gather a population of repairers, "accessory" dealers and working
engineers, a growing class which from its necessary intelligence and numbers will play a very
conspicuous part in the social development of the twentieth century. The much more elaborate
post-office and telephone services will also bring intelligent ingredients to these suburban
nuclei, these restorations of the old villages and country towns. And the sons of the cottager
within the affected area will develop into the skilled vegetable or flower gardeners, the skilled
ostler--with some veterinary science--and so forth, for whom also there will evidently be work
and a living. And dotted at every convenient position along the new roads, availing themselves
no doubt whenever possible of the picturesque inns that the old coaching days have left us,
will be wayside restaurants and tea houses, and motor and cycle stores and repair places. So
much diffusion is practically inevitable.

In addition, as we have already intimated, many Londoners in the future may abandon the city
office altogether, preferring to do their business in more agreeable surroundings. Such a business
as book publishing, for example, has no unbreakable bonds to keep it in the region of high
rent and congested streets. The days when the financial fortunes of books depended upon the
colloquial support of influential people in a small Society are past; neither publishers nor
authors as a class have any relation to Society at all, and actual access to newspaper offices
is necessary only to the ranker forms of literary imposture. That personal intercourse between
publishers and the miscellaneous race of authors which once justified the central position
has, I am told, long since ceased. And the withdrawing publishers may very well take with them
the printers and binders, and attract about them their illustrators and designers.... So, as
a typical instance, one--now urban--trade may detach itself.

Publishing is, however, only one of the many similar trades equally profitable and equally
likely to move outward to secondary centres, with the development and cheapening of transit.
It is all a question of transit. Limitation of transit contracts the city, facilitation expands
and disperses it. All this case for diffusion so far is built up entirely on the hypothesis
we attempted to establish in the first paper, that transit of persons and goods alike is to
become easier, swifter, and altogether better organized than it is at present.

The telephone will almost certainly prove a very potent auxiliary indeed to the forces making
for diffusion. At present that convenience is still needlessly expensive in Great Britain,
and a scandalously stupid business conflict between telephone company and post-office delays,
complicates, and makes costly and exasperating all trunk communications; but even under these
disadvantages the thing is becoming a factor in the life of ordinary villadom. Consider all
that lies within its possibilities. Take first the domestic and social side; almost all the
labour of ordinary shopping can be avoided--goods nowadays can be ordered and sent either as
sold outright, or on approval, to any place within a hundred miles of London, and in one day
they can be examined, discussed, and returned--at any rate, in theory. The mistress of the
house has all her local tradesmen, all the great London shops, the circulating library, the
theatre box-office, the post-office and cab-rank, the nurses' institute and the doctor, within
reach of her hand. The instrument we may confidently expect to improve, but even now speech
is perfectly clear and distinct over several hundred miles of wire. Appointments and invitations
can be made; and at a cost varying from a penny to two shillings any one within two hundred
miles of home may speak day or night into the ear of his or her household. Were it not for
that unmitigated public nuisance, the practical control of our post-office by non-dismissable
Civil servants, appointed so young as to be entirely ignorant of the unofficial world, it would
be possible now to send urgent messages at any hour of the day or night to any part of the
world; and even our sacred institution of the Civil Service can scarcely prevent this desirable
consummation for many years more. The business man may then sit at home in his library and
bargain, discuss, promise, hint, threaten, tell such lies as he dare not write, and, in fact,
do everything that once demanded a personal encounter. Already for a great number of businesses
it is no longer necessary that the office should be in London, and only habit, tradition, and
minor considerations keep it there. With the steady cheapening and the steady increase in efficiency
of postal and telephonic facilities, and of goods transit, it seems only reasonable to anticipate
the need for that expensive office and the irksome daily journey will steadily decline. In
other words, what will still be economically the "city," as distinguished from the "agricultural"
population, will probably be free to extend, in the case of all the prosperous classes not
tied to large establishments in need of personal supervision, far beyond the extreme limits
of the daily hour journey.

But the diffusion of the prosperous, independent, and managing classes involves in itself a
very considerable diffusion of the purely "working" classes also. Their centres of occupation
will be distributed, and their freedom to live at some little distance from their work will
be increased. Whether this will mean dotting the country with dull, ugly little streets, slum
villages like Buckfastleigh in Devon, for example, or whether it may result in entirely different
and novel aspects, is a point for which at present we are not ready. But it bears upon the
question that ugliness and squalor upon the main road will appeal to the more prosperous for
remedy with far more vigour than when they are stowed compactly in a slum.

Enough has been said to demonstrate that old "town" and "city" will be, in truth, terms as
obsolete as "mail coach." For these new areas that will grow out of them we want a term, and
the administrative "urban district" presents itself with a convenient air of suggestion. We
may for our present purposes call these coming town provinces "urban regions." Practically,
by a process of confluence, the whole of Great Britain south of the Highlands seems destined
to become such an urban region, laced all together not only by railway and telegraph, but by
novel roads such as we forecast in the former chapter, and by a dense network of telephones,
parcels delivery tubes, and the like nervous and arterial connections.

It will certainly be a curious and varied region, far less monotonous than our present English
world, still in its thinner regions, at any rate, wooded, perhaps rather more abundantly wooded,
breaking continually into park and garden, and with everywhere a scattering of houses. These
will not, as a rule, I should fancy, follow the fashion of the vulgar ready-built villas of
the existing suburb, because the freedom people will be able to exercise in the choice of a
site will rob the "building estate" promoter of his local advantage; in many cases the houses
may very probably be personal homes, built for themselves as much as the Tudor manor-houses
were, and even, in some cases, as æsthetically right. Each district, I am inclined to think,
will develop its own differences of type and style. As one travels through the urban region,
one will traverse open, breezy, "horsey" suburbs, smart white gates and palings everywhere,
good turf, a Grand Stand shining pleasantly; gardening districts all set with gables and roses,
holly hedges, and emerald lawns; pleasant homes among heathery moorlands and golf links, and
river districts with gaily painted boat-houses peeping from the osiers. Then presently a gathering
of houses closer together, and a promenade and a whiff of band and dresses, and then, perhaps,
a little island of agriculture, hops, or strawberry gardens, fields of grey-plumed artichokes,
white-painted orchard, or brightly neat poultry farm. Through the varied country the new wide
roads will run, here cutting through a crest and there running like some colossal aqueduct
across a valley, swarming always with a multitudinous traffic of bright, swift (and not necessarily
ugly) mechanisms; and everywhere amidst the fields and trees linking wires will stretch from
pole to pole. Ever and again there will appear a cluster of cottages--cottages into which we
shall presently look more closely--about some works or workings, works, it may be, with the
smoky chimney of to-day replaced by a gaily painted windwheel or waterwheel to gather and store
the force for the machinery; and ever and again will come a little town, with its cherished
ancient church or cathedral, its school buildings and museums, its railway-station, perhaps
its fire-station, its inns and restaurants, and with all the wires of the countryside converging
to its offices. All that is pleasant and fair of our present countryside may conceivably still
be there among the other things. There is no reason why the essential charm of the country
should disappear; the new roads will not supersede the present high roads, which will still
be necessary for horses and subsidiary traffic; and the lanes and hedges, the field paths and
wild flowers, will still have their ample justification. A certain lack of solitude there may
be perhaps, and--

Will conspicuous advertisements play any part in the landscape?...

But I find my pen is running ahead, an imagination prone to realistic constructions is struggling
to paint a picture altogether prematurely. There is very much to be weighed and decided before
we can get from our present generalization to the style of architecture these houses will show,
and to the power and nature of the public taste. We have laid down now the broad lines of road,
railway, and sea transit in the coming century, and we have got this general prophecy of "urban
regions" established, and for the present that much must suffice.

And as for the world beyond our urban regions? The same line of reasoning that leads to the
expectation that the city will diffuse itself until it has taken up considerable areas and
many of the characteristics, the greenness, the fresh air, of what is now country, leads us
to suppose also that the country will take to itself many of the qualities of the city. The
old antithesis will indeed cease, the boundary lines will altogether disappear; it will become,
indeed, merely a question of more or less populous. There will be horticulture and agriculture
going on within the "urban regions," and "urbanity" without them. Everywhere, indeed, over
the land of the globe between the frozen circles, the railway and the new roads will spread,
the net-work of communication wires and safe and convenient ways. To receive the daily paper
a few hours late, to wait a day or so for goods one has ordered, will be the extreme measure
of rusticity save in a few remote islands and inaccessible places. The character of the meshes
in that wider network of roads that will be the country, as distinguished from the urban district,
will vary with the soil, the climate and the tenure of the land--will vary, too, with the racial
and national differences. But throughout all that follows, this mere relativity of the new
sort of town to the new sort of country over which the new sorts of people we are immediately
to consider will be scattered, must be borne in mind.

       *       *       *       *       *

[At the risk of insistence, I must repeat that, so far, I have been studiously taking no account
of the fact that there is such a thing as a boundary line or a foreigner in the world. It will
be far the best thing to continue to do this until we can get out all that will probably happen
universally or generally, and in particular the probable changes in social forces, social apparatus
and internal political methods. We shall then come to the discussion of language, nationality
and international conflicts, equipped with such an array of probabilities and possibilities
as will enable us to guess at these special issues with an appearance of far more precision
than would be the case if we considered them now.]

FOOTNOTES:

[13] It is true that many scholars estimate a high-water mark for the Roman population in excess
of two millions; and one daring authority, by throwing out suburbs ad libitum into the Campagna,
suburbs of which no trace remains, has raised the two to ten. The Colosseum could, no doubt,
seat over 80,000 spectators; the circuit of the bench frontage of the Circus Maximus was very
nearly a mile in length, and the Romans of Imperial times certainly used ten times as much
water as the modern Romans. But, on the other hand, habits change, and Rome as it is defined
by lines drawn at the times of its greatest ascendancy--the city, that is, enclosed by the
walls of Aurelian and including all the regiones of Augustus, an enclosure from which there
could have been no reason for excluding half or more of its population--could have scarcely
contained a million. It would have packed very comfortably within the circle of the Grands
Boulevards of Paris--the Paris, that is, of Louis XIV., with a population of 560,000; and the
Rome of to-day, were the houses that spread so densely over the once vacant Campus Martius
distributed in the now deserted spaces in the south and east, and the Vatican suburb replaced
within the ancient walls, would quite fill the ancient limits, in spite of the fact that the
population is under 500,000. But these are incidental doubts on a very authoritative opinion,
and, whatever their value, they do not greatly affect the significance of these new great cities,
which have arisen all over the world, as if by the operation of a natural law, as the railways
have developed.

[14] It will be plain that such towns must have clearly defined limits of population, dependant
finally on the minimum yearly produce of the district they control. If ever they rise above
that limit the natural checks of famine, and of pestilence following enfeeblement, will come
into operation, and they will always be kept near this limit by the natural tendency of humanity
to increase. The limit would rise with increasing public intelligence, and the organization
of the towns would become more definite.

[15] I owe the fertilizing suggestion of this general principle to a paper by Grant Allen that
I read long ago in Longman's Magazine.

[16] It is worth remarking that in 1801 the density of population in the City of London was
half as dense again as that of any district, even of the densest "slum" districts, to-day.

[17] Be it noted that the phrase "available area" is used, and various other modifying considerations
altogether waived for the present.

[18] Their temporary suppression of the specialist is indeed carried to such an extent that
one may see even such things as bronze ornaments and personal jewellery listed in Messrs. Omnium's
list, and stored in list designs and pattern; and their assistants will inform you that their
brooch, No. 175, is now "very much worn," without either blush or smile.

[19] The present system of charging parcels by the pound, when goods are sold by the pound,
and so getting a miserly profit in the packing, is surely one of the absurdest disregards of
the obvious it is possible to imagine.

III

DEVELOPING SOCIAL ELEMENTS

The mere differences in thickness of population and facility of movement that have been discussed
thus far, will involve consequences remarkable enough, upon the facies of the social body;
but there are certain still broader features of the social order of the coming time, less intimately
related to transit, that it will be convenient to discuss at this stage. They are essentially
outcomes of the enormous development of mechanism which has been the cardinal feature of the
nineteenth century; for this development, by altering the method and proportions of almost
all human undertakings,[20] has altered absolutely the grouping and character of the groups
of human beings engaged upon them.

Throughout the world for forty centuries the more highly developed societies have always presented
under a considerable variety of superficial differences certain features in common. Always
at the base of the edifice, supporting all, subordinate to all, and the most necessary of all,
there has been the working cultivator, peasant, serf, or slave. Save for a little water-power,
a little use of windmills, the traction of a horse or mule, this class has been the source
of all the work upon which the community depends. And, moreover, whatever labour town developments
have demanded has been supplied by the muscle of its fecund ranks. It has been, in fact--and
to some extent still is--the multitudinous living machinery of the old social order; it carried,
cropped, tilled, built, and made. And, directing and sometimes owning this human machinery,
there has always been a superior class, bound usually by a point of honour not to toil, often
warlike, often equestrian, and sometimes cultivated. In England this is the gentility, in most
European countries it is organized as a nobility; it is represented in the history of India
by the "twice born" castes, and in China--the most philosophically conceived and the most stably
organized social system the old order ever developed--it finds its equivalent in the members
of a variously buttoned mandarinate, who ride, not on horses, but on a once adequate and still
respectable erudition. These two primary classes may and do become in many cases complicated
by subdivisions; the peasant class may split into farmers and labourers, the gentlemen admit
a series of grades and orders, kings, dukes, earls, and the like, but the broad distinction
remains intact, as though it was a distinction residing in the nature of things.[21]

From the very dawn of history until the first beginnings of mechanism in the eighteenth century,
this simple scheme of orders was the universal organization of all but savage humanity, and
the chief substance of history until these later years has been in essence the perpetual endeavour
of specific social systems of this type to attain in every region the locally suitable permanent
form, in face of those two inveterate enemies of human stability, innovation, and that secular
increase in population that security permits. The imperfection of the means of communication
rendered political unions of a greater area than that swept by a hundred-mile radius highly
unstable. It was a world of small states. Lax empires came and went, at the utmost they were
the linking of practically autonomous states under a common Pax. Wars were usually wars between
kingdoms, conflicts of this local experiment in social organization with that. Through all
the historical period these two well-defined classes of gentle and simple acted and reacted
upon each other, every individual in each class driven by that same will to live and do, that
imperative of self-establishment and aggression that is the spirit of this world. Until the
coming of gunpowder, the man on horseback--commonly with some sort of armour--was invincible
in battle in the open. Wherever the land lay wide and unbroken, and the great lines of trade
did not fall, there the horseman was master--or the clerkly man behind the horseman. Such a
land was aristocratic and tended to form castes. The craftsman sheltered under a patron, and
in guilds in a walled town, and the labourer was a serf. He was ruled over by his knight or
by his creditor--in the end it matters little how the gentleman began. But where the land became
difficult by reason of mountain or forest, or where water greatly intersected it, the pikeman
or closer-fighting swordsman or the bowman could hold his own, and a democratic flavour, a
touch of repudiation, was in the air. In such countries as Italy, Greece, the Alps, the Netherlands,
and Great Britain, the two forces of the old order, the aristocrat and the common man, were
in a state of unstable equilibrium through the whole period of history. A slight change[22]
in the details of the conflict for existence could tilt the balance. A weapon a little better
adapted to one class than the other, or a slight widening of the educational gap, worked out
into historically imposing results, to dynastic changes, class revolutions and the passing
of empires.

Throughout it was essentially one phase of human organization. When one comes to examine the
final result, it is astonishing to remark the small amount of essential change, of positively
final and irreparable alteration, in the conditions of the common life. Consider, for example,
how entirely in sympathy was the close of the eighteenth century with the epoch of Horace,
and how closely equivalent were the various social aspects of the two periods. The literature
of Rome was living reading in a sense that has suddenly passed away, it fitted all occasions,
it conflicted with no essential facts in life. It was a commonplace of the thought of that
time that all things recurred, all things circled back to their former seasons; there was nothing
new under the sun. But now almost suddenly the circling has ceased, and we find ourselves breaking
away. Correlated with the sudden development of mechanical forces that first began to be socially
perceptible in the middle eighteenth century, has been the appearance of great masses of population,
having quite novel functions and relations in the social body, and together with this appearance
such a suppression, curtailment, and modification of the older classes, as to point to an entire
disintegration of that system. The facies of the social fabric has changed, and--as I hope
to make clear--is still changing in a direction from which, without a total destruction and
rebirth of that fabric, there can never be any return.

The most striking of the new classes to emerge is certainly the shareholding class, the owners
of a sort of property new in the world's history.

Before the eighteenth century the only property of serious importance consisted of land and
buildings. These were "real" estate. Beyond these things were live-stock, serfs, and the furnishings
of real estate, the surface aspect of real estate, so to speak, personal property, ships, weapons,
and the Semitic invention of money. All such property had to be actually "held" and administered
by the owner, he was immediately in connection with it and responsible for it. He could leave
it only precariously to a steward and manager, and to convey the revenue of it to him at a
distance was a difficult and costly proceeding. To prevent a constant social disturbance by
lapsing and dividing property, and in the absence of any organized agency to receive lapsed
property, inheritance and preferably primogeniture were of such manifest advantage that the
old social organization always tended in the direction of these institutions. Such usury as
was practised relied entirely on the land and the anticipated agricultural produce of the land.

But the usury and the sleeping partnerships of the Joint Stock Company system which took shape
in the eighteenth and the earlier half of the nineteenth century opened quite unprecedented
uses for money, and created a practically new sort of property and a new proprietor class.
The peculiar novelty of this property is easily defined. Given a sufficient sentiment of public
honesty, share property is property that can be owned at any distance and that yields its revenue
without thought or care on the part of its proprietor; it is, indeed, absolutely irresponsible
property, a thing that no old world property ever was. But, in spite of its widely different
nature, the laws of inheritance that the social necessities of the old order of things established
have been applied to this new species of possession without remark. It is indestructible, imperishable
wealth, subject only to the mutations of value that economic changes bring about. Related in
its character of absolute irresponsibility to this shareholding class is a kindred class that
has grown with the growth of the great towns, the people who live upon ground rents. There
is every indication that this element of irresponsible, independent, and wealthy people in
the social body, people who feel the urgency of no exertion, the pressure of no specific positive
duties, is still on the increase, and may still for a long time increasingly preponderate.
It overshadows the responsible owner of real property or of real businesses altogether. And
most of the old aristocrats, the old knightly and landholding people, have, so to speak, converted
themselves into members of this new class.

It is a class with scarcely any specific characteristics beyond its defining one, of the possession
of property and all the potentialities property entails, with a total lack of function with
regard to that property. It is not even collected into a distinct mass. It graduates insensibly
into every other class, it permeates society as threads and veins of gold permeate quartz.
It includes the millionaire snob, the political-minded plutocrat, the wealthy sensualist, open-handed
religious fanatics, the "Charitable," the smart, the magnificently dull, the great army of
timid creatures who tremble through life on a safe bare sufficiency,[23] travellers, hunters,
minor poets, sporting enthusiasts, many of the officers in the British Army, and all sorts
and conditions of amateurs. In a sense it includes several modern royalties, for the crown
in several modern constitutional states is a corporation sole, and the monarch the unique,
unlimited, and so far as necessity goes, quite functionless shareholder. He may be a heavy-eyed
sensualist, a small-minded leader of fashion, a rival to his servants in the gay science of
etiquette, a frequenter of race-courses and music-halls, a literary or scientific quack, a
devotee, an amateur anything--the point is that his income and sustenance have no relation
whatever to his activities. If he fancies it, or is urged to it by those who have influence
over him, he may even "be a king!" But that is not compulsory, not essential, and there are
practically no conditional restrictions whatever laid upon him.

Those who belong to this shareholding class only partially, who partially depend upon dividends
and partially upon activities, occur in every rank and order of the whole social body. The
waiter one tips probably has a hundred or so in some remote company, the will of the eminent
labour reformer reveals an admirably distributed series of investments, the bishop sells tea
and digs coal, or at any rate gets a profit from some unknown persons tea-selling or coal-digging,
to eke out the direct recompense of his own modest corn-treading. Indeed, above the labouring
class, the number of individuals in the social body whose gross income is entirely the result
of their social activities is very small. Previously in the world's history, saving a few quite
exceptional aspects, the possession and retention of property was conditional upon activities
of some sort, honest or dishonest, work, force, or fraud. But the shareholding ingredient of
our new society, so far as its shareholding goes, has no need of strength or wisdom; the countless
untraceable Owner of the modern world presents in a multitudinous form the image of a Merovingian
king. The shareholder owns the world de jure, by the common recognition of the rights of property;
and the incumbency of knowledge, management, and toil fall entirely to others. He toils not,
neither does he spin; he is mechanically released from the penalty of the Fall, he reaps in
a still sinful world all the practical benefits of a millennium--without any of its moral limitations.

It will be well to glance at certain considerations which point to the by no means self-evident
proposition, that this factor of irresponsible property is certain to be present in the social
body a hundred years ahead. It has, no doubt, occurred to the reader that all the conditions
of the shareholder's being unfit him for co-operative action in defence of the interests of
his class. Since shareholders do nothing in common, except receive and hope for dividends,
since they may be of any class, any culture, any disposition, or any level of capacity, since
there is nothing to make them read the same papers, gather in the same places, or feel any
sort of sympathy with each other beyond the universal sympathy of man for man, they will, one
may anticipate, be incapable of any concerted action to defend the income they draw from society
against any resolute attack. Such crude and obvious denials of the essential principles of
their existence as the various Socialistic bodies have proclaimed have, no doubt, encountered
a vast, unorganized, negative opposition from them, but the subtle and varied attack of natural
forces they have neither the collective intelligence to recognize, nor the natural organization
to resist. The shareholding body is altogether too chaotic and diffused for positive defence.
And the question of the prolonged existence of this comparatively new social phenomenon, either
in its present or some modified form, turns, therefore, entirely on the quasi-natural laws
of the social body. If they favour it, it will survive; when they do not, it will vanish as
the mists of the morning before the sun.

Neglecting a few exceptional older corporations which, indeed, in their essence are not usurious,
but of unlimited liability, the shareholding body appeared first, in its present character,
in the seventeenth century, and came to its full development in the mid-nineteenth. Was its
appearance then due only to the attainment of a certain necessary degree of public credit,
or was it correlated with any other force? It seems in accordance with facts to relate it to
another force, the development of mechanism, so far as certain representative aspects go. Hitherto
the only borrower had been the farmer, then the exploring trader had found a world too wide
for purely individual effort, and then suddenly the craftsmen of all sorts and the carriers
discovered the need of the new, great, wholesale, initially expensive appliances that invention
was offering them. It was the development of mechanism that created the great bulk of modern
shareholding, it took its present shape distinctively only with the appearance of the railways.
The hitherto necessary but subordinate craftsman and merchant classes were to have new weapons,
new powers, they were to develop to a new importance, to a preponderance even in the social
body. But before they could attain these weapons, before this new and novel wealth could be
set up, it had to pay its footing in an apportioned world, it had to buy its right to disturb
the established social order. The dividend of the shareholder was the tribute the new enterprise
had to pay the old wealth. The share was the manumission money of machinery. And essentially
the shareholder represents and will continue to represent the responsible managing owner of
a former state of affairs in process of supersession.

If the great material developments of the nineteenth century had been final, if they had, indeed,
constituted merely a revolution and not an absolute release from the fixed conditions about
which human affairs circled, we might even now be settling accounts with our Merovingians as
the socialists desire. But these developments were not final, and one sees no hint as yet of
any coming finality. Invention runs free and our state is under its dominion. The novel is
continually struggling to establish itself at the relative or absolute expense of the old.
The statesman's conception of social organization is no longer stability but growth. And so
long as material progress continues, this tribute must continue to be paid; so long as the
stream of development flows, this necessary back eddy will endure. Even if we "municipalize"
all sorts of undertakings we shall not alter the essential facts, we shall only substitute
for the shareholder the corporation stockholder. The figure of an eddy is particularly appropriate.
Enterprises will come and go, the relative values of kinds of wealth will alter, old appliances,
old companies, will serve their time and fall in value, individuals will waste their substance,
individual families and groups will die out, certain portions of the share property of the
world may be gathered, by elaborate manipulation, into a more or less limited number of hands,
conceivably even families and groups will be taxed out by graduated legacy duties and specially
apportioned income taxes, but, for all such possible changes and modifications, the shareholding
element will still endure, so long as our present progressive and experimental state of society
obtains. And the very diversity, laxity, and weakness of the general shareholding element,
which will work to prevent its organizing itself in the interests of its property, or of evolving
any distinctive traditions or positive characters, will obviously prevent its obstructing the
continual appearance of new enterprises, of new shareholders to replace the loss of its older
constituents....

At the opposite pole of the social scale to that about which shareholding is most apparent,
is a second necessary and quite inevitable consequence of the sudden transition that has occurred
from a very nearly static social organization to a violently progressive one. This second consequence
of progress is the appearance of a great number of people without either property or any evident
function in the social organism. This new ingredient is most apparent in the towns, it is frequently
spoken of as the Urban Poor, but its characteristic traits are to be found also in the rural
districts. For the most part its individuals are either criminal, immoral, parasitic in more
or less irregular ways upon the more successful classes, or labouring, at something less than
a regular bare subsistence wage, in a finally hopeless competition against machinery that is
as yet not so cheap as their toil. It is, to borrow a popular phrase, the "submerged" portion
of the social body, a leaderless, aimless multitude, a multitude of people drifting down towards
the abyss. Essentially it consists of people who have failed to "catch on" to the altered necessities
the development of mechanism has brought about, they are people thrown out of employment by
machinery, thrown out of employment by the escape of industries along some newly opened line
of communication to some remote part of the world, or born under circumstances that give them
no opportunity of entering the world of active work. Into this welter of machine-superseded
toil there topples the non-adaptable residue of every changing trade; its members marry and
are given in marriage, and it is recruited by the spendthrifts, weaklings, and failures of
every superior class.

Since this class was not apparent in masses in the relatively static, relatively less eliminatory,
society of former times, its appearance has given rise to a belief that the least desirable
section of the community has become unprecedentedly prolific, that there is now going on a
"Rapid Multiplication of the Unfit." But sooner or later, as every East End doctor knows, the
ways of the social abyss lead to death, the premature death of the individual, or death through
the death or infertility of the individual's stunted offspring, or death through that extinction
which moral perversion involves. It is a recruited class, not a breeding multitude. Whatever
expedients may be resorted to, to mitigate or conceal the essential nature of this social element,
it remains in its essence wherever social progress is being made, the contingent of death.
Humanity has set out in the direction of a more complex and exacting organization, and until,
by a foresight to me at least inconceivable, it can prevent the birth of just all the inadaptable,
useless, or merely unnecessary creatures in each generation, there must needs continue to be,
in greater or less amount, this individually futile struggle beneath the feet of the race;
somewhere and in some form there must still persist those essentials that now take shape as
the slum, the prison, and the asylum. All over the world, as the railway network has spread,
in Chicago and New York as vividly as in London or Paris, the commencement of the new movement
has been marked at once by the appearance of this bulky irremovable excretion, the appearance
of these gall stones of vicious, helpless, and pauper masses. There seems every reason to suppose
that this phenomenon of unemployed citizens, who are, in fact, unemployable, will remain present
as a class, perishing individually and individually renewed, so long as civilization remains
progressive and experimental upon its present lines. Their drowning existences may be utilized,
the crude hardship of their lot may be concealed or mitigated,[24] they may react upon the
social fabric that is attempting to eliminate them, in very astounding ways, but their presence
and their individual doom, it seems to me, will be unavoidable--at any rate, for many generations
of men. They are an integral part of this physiological process of mechanical progress, as
inevitable in the social body as are waste matters and disintegrating cells in the body of
an active and healthy man.

The appearance of these two strange functionless elements, although the most striking symptom
of the new phase of progressive mechanical civilization now beginning, is by no means the most
essential change in progress. These appearances involve also certain disappearances. I have
already indicated pretty clearly that the vast irregular development of irresponsible wealthy
people is swallowing up and assimilating more and more the old class of administrative land-owning
gentlemen in all their grades and degrees. The old upper class, as a functional member of the
State, is being effaced. And I have also suggested that the old lower class, the broad necessary
base of the social pyramid, the uneducated inadaptable peasants and labourers, is, with the
development of toil-saving machinery, dwindling and crumbling down bit by bit towards the abyss.
But side by side with these two processes is a third process of still profounder significance,
and that is the reconstruction and the vast proliferation of what constituted the middle class
of the old order. It is now, indeed, no longer a middle class at all. Rather all the definite
classes in the old scheme of functional precedence have melted and mingled,[25] and in the
molten mass there has appeared a vast intricate confusion of different sorts of people, some
sailing about upon floating masses of irresponsible property, some buoyed by smaller fragments,
some clinging desperately enough to insignificant atoms, a great and varied multitude swimming
successfully without aid, or with an amount of aid that is negligible in relation to their
own efforts, and an equally varied multitude of less capable ones clinging to the swimmers,
clinging to the floating rich, or clutching empty-handed and thrust and sinking down. This
is the typical aspect of the modern community. It will serve as a general description of either
the United States or any western European State, and the day is not far distant when the extension
of means of communication, and of the shareholding method of conducting affairs, will make
it applicable to the whole world. Save, possibly, in a few islands and inaccessible places
and regardless of colour or creed, this process of deliquescence seems destined to spread.
In a great diversity of tongues, in the phases of a number of conflicting moral and theological
traditions, in the varying tones of contrasting racial temperaments, the grandchildren of black
and white, and red and brown, will be seeking more or less consciously to express themselves
in relation to these new and unusual social conditions. But the change itself is no longer
amenable to their interpretations, the world-wide spreading of swift communication, the obliteration
of town and country, the deliquescence of the local social order, have an air of being processes
as uncontrollable by such collective intelligence as men can at present command, and as indifferent
to his local peculiarities and prejudices as the movements of winds and tides....

It will be obvious that the interest of this speculation, at any rate, centres upon this great
intermediate mass of people who are neither passively wealthy, the sleeping partners of change,
nor helplessly thrust out of the process. Indeed, from our point of view--an inquiry into coming
things--these non-effective masses would have but the slightest interest were it not for their
enormous possibilities of reaction upon the really living portion of the social organism. This
really living portion seems at first sight to be as deliquescent in its nature, to be drifting
down to as chaotic a structure as either the non-functional owners that float above it or the
unemployed who sink below. What were once the definite subdivisions of the middle class modify
and lose their boundaries. The retail tradesman of the towns, for example--once a fairly homogeneous
class throughout Europe--expands here into vast store companies, and dwindles there to be an
agent or collector, seeks employment or topples outright into the abyss. But under a certain
scrutiny one can detect here what we do not detect in our other two elements, and that is that,
going on side by side with the processes of dissolution and frequently masked by these, there
are other processes by which men, often of the most diverse parentage and antecedent traditions,
are being segregated into a multitude of specific new groups which may presently develop very
distinctive characters and ideals.

There are, for example, the unorganized myriads that one can cover by the phrase "mechanics
and engineers," if one uses it in its widest possible sense. At present it would be almost
impossible to describe such a thing as a typical engineer, to predicate any universally applicable
characteristic of the engineer and mechanic. The black-faced, oily man one figures emerging
from the engine-room serves well enough, until one recalls the sanitary engineer with his additions
of crockery and plumbing, the electrical engineer with his little tests and wires, the mining
engineer, the railway maker, the motor builder, and the irrigation expert. Even if we take
some specific branch of all this huge mass of new employment the coming of mechanism has brought
with it, we still find an undigested miscellany. Consider the rude levy that is engaged in
supplying and repairing the world's new need of bicycles! Wheelwrights, watchmakers, blacksmiths,
music-dealers, drapers, sewing-machine repairers, smart errand boys, ironmongers, individuals
from all the older aspects of engineering, have been caught up by the new development, are
all now, with a more or less inadequate knowledge and training, working in the new service.
But is it likely that this will remain a rude levy? From all these varied people the world
requires certain things, and a failure to obtain them involves, sooner or later, in this competitive
creation, an individual replacement and a push towards the abyss. The very lowest of them must
understand the machine they contribute to make and repair, and not only is it a fairly complex
machine in itself, but it is found in several types and patterns, and so far it has altered,
and promises still to alter, steadily, by improvements in this part and that. No limited stock-in-trade
of knowledge, such as suffices for a joiner or an ostler, will serve. They must keep on mastering
new points, new aspects, they must be intelligent and adaptable, they must get a grasp of that
permanent something that lies behind the changing immediate practice. In other words, they
will have to be educated rather than trained after the fashion of the old craftsman. Just now
this body of irregulars is threatened by the coming of the motors. The motors promise new difficulties,
new rewards, and new competition. It is an ill look-out for the cycle mechanic who is not prepared
to tackle the new problems that will arise. For all this next century this particular body
of mechanics will be picking up new recruits and eliminating the incompetent and the rule-of-thumb
sage. Can it fail, as the years pass, to develop certain general characters, to become so far
homogeneous as to be generally conscious of the need of a scientific education, at any rate
in mechanical and chemical matters, and to possess, down to its very lowest ranks and orders,
a common fund of intellectual training?

But the makers and repairers of cycles, and that larger multitude that will presently be concerned
with motors, are, after all, only a small and specialized section of the general body of mechanics
and engineers. Every year, with the advance of invention, new branches of activity, that change
in their nature and methods all too rapidly for the establishment of rote and routine workers
of the old type, call together fresh levies of amateurish workers and learners who must surely
presently develop into, or give place to, bodies of qualified and capable men. And the point
I would particularly insist upon here is, that throughout all its ranks and ramifications,
from the organizing heads of great undertakings down to the assistant in the local repair shop,
this new, great, and expanding body of mechanics and engineers will tend to become an educated
and adaptable class in a sense that the craftsmen of former times were not educated and adaptable.
Just how high the scientific and practical education may rise in the central levels of this
body is a matter for subsequent speculation, just how much initiative will be found in the
lowest ranks depends upon many very complex considerations. But that here we have at least
the possibility, the primary creative conditions of a new, numerous, intelligent, educated,
and capable social element is, I think, a proposition with which the reader will agree.

What are the chief obstacles in the way of the emergence, from out the present chaos, of this
social element equipped, organized, educated, conscious of itself and of distinctive aims,
in the next hundred years? In the first place there is the spirit of trade unionism, the conservative
contagion of the old craftsmanship. Trade Unions arose under the tradition of the old order,
when in every business, employer and employed stood in marked antagonism, stood as a special
instance of the universal relationship of gentle or intelligent, who supplied no labour, and
simple, who supplied nothing else. The interest of the employer was to get as much labour as
possible out of his hirelings; the complementary object in life of the hireling, whose sole
function was drudgery, who had no other prospect until death, was to give as little to his
employer as possible. In order to keep the necessary labourer submissive, it was a matter of
public policy to keep him uneducated and as near the condition of a beast of burden as possible,
and in order to keep his life tolerable against that natural increase which all the moral institutions
of his state promoted, the labourer--stimulated if his efforts slackened by the touch of absolute
misery--was forced to devise elaborate rules for restricting the hours of toil, making its
performance needlessly complex, and shirking with extreme ingenuity and conscientiousness.
In the older trades, of which the building trade is foremost, these two traditions, reinforced
by unimaginative building regulations, have practically arrested any advance whatever.[26]
There can be no doubt that this influence has spread into what are practically new branches
of work. Even where new conveniences have called for new types of workmen and have opened the
way for the elevation of a group of labourers to the higher level of versatile educated men,[27]
the old traditions have to a very large extent prevailed. The average sanitary plumber of to-day
in England insists upon his position as a mere labourer as though it were some precious thing,
he guards himself from improvement as a virtuous woman guards her honour, he works for specifically
limited hours and by the hour with specific limitations in the practice of his trade, on the
fairly sound assumption that but for that restriction any fool might do plumbing as well as
he; whatever he learns he learns from some other plumber during his apprenticeship years--after
which he devotes himself to doing the minimum of work in the maximum of time until his brief
excursion into this mysterious universe is over. So far from invention spurring him onward,
every improvement in sanitary work in England, at least, is limited by the problem whether
"the men" will understand it. A person ingenious enough to exceed this sacred limit might as
well hang himself as trouble about the improvement of plumbing.

If England stood alone, I do not see why each of the new mechanical and engineering industries,
so soon as it develops sufficiently to have gathered together a body of workers capable of
supporting a Trade Union secretary, should not begin to stagnate in the same manner. Only England
does not stand alone, and the building trade is so far not typical, inasmuch as it possesses
a national monopoly that the most elaborate system of protection cannot secure any other group
of trades. One must have one's house built where one has to live, the importation of workmen
in small bodies is difficult and dear, and if one cannot have the house one wishes, one must
needs have the least offensive substitute; but bicycle and motor, iron-work and furniture,
engines, rails, and ships one can import. The community, therefore, that does least to educate
its mechanics and engineers out of the base and servile tradition of the old idea of industry
will in the coming years of progress simply get a disproportionate share of the rejected element,
the trade will go elsewhere, and the community will be left in possession of an exceptionally
large contingent for the abyss.

At present, however, I am dealing not with the specific community, but with the generalized
civilized community of A.D. 2000--we disregard the fate of states and empires for a time--and,
for that emergent community, wherever it may be, it seems reasonable to anticipate, replacing
and enormously larger and more important than the classes of common workmen and mechanics of
to-day, a large fairly homogeneous body--big men and little men, indeed, but with no dividing
lines--of more or less expert mechanics and engineers, with a certain common minimum of education
and intelligence, and probably a common-class consciousness--a new body, a new force, in the
world's history.

For this body to exist implies the existence of much more than the primary and initiating nucleus
of engineers and skilled mechanics. If it is an educated class, its existence implies a class
of educators, and just as far as it does get educated the schoolmasters will be skilled and
educated men. The shabby-genteel middle-class schoolmaster of the England of to-day, in--or
a little way out of--orders, with his smattering of Greek, his Latin that leads nowhere, his
fatuous mathematics, his gross ignorance of pedagogics, and his incomparable snobbishness,
certainly does not represent the schoolmaster of this coming class. Moreover, the new element
will necessarily embody its collective, necessarily distinctive, and unprecedented thoughts
in a literature of its own, its development means the development of a new sort of writer and
of new elements in the press. And since, if it does emerge, a revolution in the common schools
of the community will be a necessary part of the process, then its emergence will involve a
revolutionary change in the condition of classes that might otherwise remain as they are now--the
older craftsman, for example.

The process of attraction will not end even there; the development of more and more scientific
engineering and of really adaptable operatives will render possible agricultural contrivances
that are now only dreams, and the diffusion of this new class over the country side--assuming
the reasoning in my second chapter to be sound--will bring the lever of the improved schools
under the agriculturist. The practically autonomous farm of the old epoch will probably be
replaced by a great variety of types of cultivation, each with its labour-saving equipment.
In this, as in most things, the future spells variation. The practical abolition of impossible
distances over the world will tend to make every district specialize in the production for
which it is best fitted, and to develop that production with an elaborate precision and economy.
The chief opposing force to this tendency will be found in those countries where the tenure
of the land is in small holdings. A population of small agriculturists that has really got
itself well established is probably as hopelessly immovable a thing as the forces of progressive
change will have to encounter. The Arcadian healthiness and simplicity of the small holder,
and the usefulness of little hands about him, naturally results in his keeping the population
on his plot up to the limit of bare subsistence. He avoids over-education, and his beasts live
with him and his children in a natural kindly manner. He will have no idlers, and even grand-mamma
goes weeding. His nett produce is less than the production of the larger methods, but his gross
is greater, and usually it is mortgaged more or less. Along the selvage of many of the new
roads we have foretold, his hens will peck and his children beg, far into the coming decades.
This simple, virtuous, open-air life is to be found ripening in the north of France and Belgium,
it culminated in Ireland in the famine years, it has held its own in China--with a use of female
infanticide--for immemorable ages, and a number of excellent persons are endeavouring to establish
it in England at the present time. At the Cape of Good Hope, under British rule, Kaffirs are
being settled upon little inalienable holdings that must inevitably develop in the same direction,
and over the Southern States the nigger squats and multiplies. It is fairly certain that these
stagnant ponds of population, which will grow until public intelligence rises to the pitch
of draining them, will on a greater scale parallel in the twentieth century the soon-to-be-dispersed
urban slums of the nineteenth. But I do not see how they can obstruct, more than locally, the
reorganization of agriculture and horticulture upon the ampler and more economical lines mechanism
permits, or prevent the development of a type of agriculturist as adaptable, alert, intelligent,
unprejudiced, and modest as the coming engineer.

Another great section of the community, the military element, will also fall within the attraction
of this possible synthesis, and will inevitably undergo profound modification. Of the probable
development of warfare a later chapter shall treat, and here it will suffice to point out that
at present science stands proffering the soldier vague, vast possibilities of mechanism, and,
so far, he has accepted practically nothing but rifles which he cannot sight and guns that
he does not learn to move about. It is quite possible the sailor would be in the like case,
but for the exceptional conditions that begot ironclads in the American Civil War. Science
offers the soldier transport that he does not use, maps he does not use, entrenching devices,
road-making devices, balloons and flying scouts, portable foods, security from disease, a thousand
ways of organizing the horrible uncertainties of war. But the soldier of to-day--I do not mean
the British soldier only--still insists on regarding these revolutionary appliances as mere
accessories, and untrustworthy ones at that, to the time-honoured practice of his art. He guards
his technical innocence like a plumber.

Every European army is organized on the lines of the once fundamental distinction of the horse
and foot epoch, in deference to the contrast of gentle and simple. There is the officer, with
all the traditions of old nobility, and the men still, by a hundred implications, mere sources
of mechanical force, and fundamentally base. The British Army, for example, still cherishes
the tradition that its privates are absolutely illiterate, and such small instruction as is
given them in the art of war is imparted by bawling and enforced by abuse upon public drill
grounds. Almost all discussion of military matters still turns upon the now quite stupid assumption
that there are two primary military arms and no more, horse and foot. "Cyclists are infantry,"
the War Office manual of 1900 gallantly declares in the face of this changing universe. After
fifty years of railways, there still does not exist, in a world which is said to be over devoted
to military affairs, a skilled and organized body of men, specially prepared to seize, repair,
reconstruct, work, and fight such an important element in the new social machinery as a railway
system. Such a business, in the next European war, will be hastily entrusted to some haphazard
incapables drafted from one or other of the two prehistoric arms.... I do not see how this
condition of affairs can be anything but transitory. There may be several wars between European
powers, prepared and organized to accept the old conventions, bloody, vast, distressful encounters
that may still leave the art of war essentially unmodified, but sooner or later--it may be
in the improvised struggle that follows the collapse of some one of these huge, witless, fighting
forces--the new sort of soldier will emerge, a sober, considerate, engineering man--no more
of a gentleman than the man subordinated to him or any other self-respecting person....

Certain interesting side questions I may glance at here, only for the present, at least, to
set them aside unanswered, the reaction, for example, of this probable development of a great
mass of educated and intelligent efficients upon the status and quality of the medical profession,
and the influence of its novel needs in either modifying the existing legal body or calling
into being a parallel body of more expert and versatile guides and assistants in business operations.
But from the mention of this latter section one comes to another possible centre of aggregation
in the social welter. Opposed in many of their most essential conditions to the capable men
who are of primary importance in the social body, is the great and growing variety of non-productive
but active men who are engaged in more or less necessary operations of organization, promotion,
advertisement, and trade. There are the business managers, public and private, the political
organizers, brokers, commission agents, the varying grades of financier down to the mere greedy
camp followers of finance, the gamblers pure and simple, and the great body of their dependent
clerks, typewriters, and assistants. All this multitude will have this much in common, that
it will be dealing, not with the primary inexorable logic of natural laws, but with the shifting,
uncertain prejudices and emotions of the general mass of people. It will be wary and cunning
rather than deliberate and intelligent, smart rather than prompt, considering always the appearance
and effect before the reality and possibilities of things. It will probably tend to form a
culture about the political and financial operator as its ideal and central type, opposed to,
and conflicting with, the forces of attraction that will tend to group the new social masses
about the scientific engineer.[28]...

Here, then (in the vision of the present writer), are the main social elements of the coming
time: (i.) the element of irresponsible property; (ii.) the helpless superseded poor, that
broad base of mere toilers now no longer essential; (iii.) a great inchoate mass of more or
less capable people engaged more or less consciously in applying the growing body of scientific
knowledge to the general needs, a great mass that will inevitably tend to organize itself in
a system of interdependent educated classes with a common consciousness and aim, but which
may or may not succeed in doing so; and (iv.) a possibly equally great number of non-productive
persons living in and by the social confusion.

All these elements will be mingled confusedly together, passing into one another by insensible
gradations, scattered over the great urban regions and intervening areas our previous anticipations
have sketched out. Moreover, they are developing, as it were unconsciously, under the stimulus
of mechanical developments, and with the bandages of old tradition hampering their movements.
The laws they obey, the governments they live under, are for the most part laws made and governments
planned before the coming of steam. The areas of administration are still areas marked out
by conditions of locomotion as obsolete as the quadrupedal method of the pre-arboreal ancestor.
In Great Britain, for example, the political constitution, the balance of estates and the balance
of parties, preserves the compromise of long-vanished antagonisms. The House of Lords is a
collection of obsolete territorial dignitaries fitfully reinforced by the bishops and a miscellany
(in no sense representative) of opulent moderns; the House of Commons is the seat of a party
conflict, a faction fight of initiated persons, that has long ceased to bear any real relation
to current social processes. The members of the lower chamber are selected by obscure party
machines operating upon constituencies almost all of which have long since become too vast
and heterogeneous to possess any collective intelligence or purpose at all. In theory the House
of Commons guards the interests of classes that are, in fact, rapidly disintegrating into a
number of quite antagonistic and conflicting elements. The new mass of capable men, of which
the engineers are typical, these capable men who must necessarily be the active principle of
the new mechanically equipped social body, finds no representation save by accident in either
assembly. The man who has concerned himself with the public health, with army organization,
with educational improvement, or with the vital matters of transport and communication, if
he enter the official councils of the kingdom at all, must enter ostensibly as the guardian
of the interests of the free and independent electors of a specific district that has long
ceased to have any sort of specific interests at all.[29]...

And the same obsolescence that is so conspicuous in the general institutions of the official
kingdom of England, and that even English people can remark in the official empire of China,
is to be traced in a greater or lesser degree in the nominal organization and public tradition
throughout the whole world. The United States, for example, the social mass which has perhaps
advanced furthest along the new lines, struggles in the iron bonds of a constitution that is
based primarily on a conception of a number of comparatively small, internally homogeneous,
agricultural states, a bunch of pre-Johannesburg Transvaals, communicating little, and each
constituting a separate autonomous democracy of free farmers--slaveholding or slaveless. Every
country in the world, indeed, that is organized at all, has been organized with a view to stability
within territorial limits; no country has been organized with any foresight of development
and inevitable change, or with the slightest reference to the practical revolution in topography
that the new means of transit involve. And since this is so, and since humanity is most assuredly
embarked upon a series of changes of which we know as yet only the opening phases, a large
part of the history of the coming years will certainly record more or less conscious endeavours
to adapt these obsolete and obsolescent contrivances for the management of public affairs to
the new and continually expanding and changing requirements of the social body, to correct
or overcome the traditions that were once wisdom and which are now obstruction, and to burst
the straining boundaries that were sufficient for the ancient states. There are here no signs
of a millennium. Internal reconstruction, while men are still limited, egotistical, passionate,
ignorant, and ignorantly led, means seditions and revolutions, and the rectification of frontiers
means wars. But before we go on to these conflicts and wars certain general social reactions
must be considered.

FOOTNOTES:

[20] Even the characteristic conditions of writing books, that least mechanical of pursuits,
have been profoundly affected by the typewriter.

[21] To these two primary classes the more complicated societies have added others. There is
the priest, almost always in the social order of the pre-railway period, an integral part,
a functional organ of the social body, and there are the lawyer and the physician. And in the
towns--constituting, indeed, the towns--there appear, as an outgrowth of the toiling class,
a little emancipated from the gentleman's direct control, the craftsman, the merchant, and
the trading sailor, essentially accessory classes, producers of, and dealers in, the accessories
of life, and mitigating and clouding only very slightly that broad duality.

[22] Slight, that is, in comparison with nineteenth-century changes.

[23] It included, one remembers, Schopenhauer, but, as he remarked upon occasion, not Hegel.

[24] A very important factor in this mitigation, a factor over which the humanely minded cannot
too greatly rejoice, will be the philanthropic amusements of the irresponsible wealthy. There
is a growing class of energetic people--organizers, secretaries, preachers--who cater to the
philanthropic instinct, and who are, for all practical purposes, employing a large and increasing
section of suitable helpless people, in supplying to their customers, by means of religious
acquiescence and light moral reforms, that sense of well-doing which is one of the least objectionable
of the functionless pleasures of life. The attempts to reinstate these failures by means of
subsidized industries will, in the end, of course, merely serve to throw out of employment
other just subsisting strugglers; it will probably make little or no difference in the nett
result of the process.

[25] I reserve any consideration of the special case of the "priest."

[26] I find it incredible that there will not be a sweeping revolution in the methods of building
during the next century. The erection of a house-wall, come to think of it, is an astonishingly
tedious and complex business; the final result exceedingly unsatisfactory. It has been my lot
recently to follow in detail the process of building a private dwelling-house, and the solemn
succession of deliberate, respectable, perfectly satisfied men, who have contributed each so
many days of his life to this accumulation of weak compromises, has enormously intensified
my constitutional amazement at my fellow-creatures. The chief ingredient in this particular
house-wall is the common brick, burnt earth, and but one step from the handfuls of clay of
the ancestral mud hut, small in size and permeable to damp. Slowly, day by day, the walls grew
tediously up, to a melody of tinkling trowels. These bricks are joined by mortar, which is
mixed in small quantities, and must vary very greatly in its quality and properties throughout
the house. In order to prevent the obvious evils of a wall of porous and irregular baked clay
and lime mud, a damp course of tarred felt, which cannot possibly last more than a few years,
was inserted about a foot from the ground. Then the wall, being quite insufficient to stand
the heavy drift of weather to which it is exposed, was dabbled over with two coatings of plaster
on the outside, the outermost being given a primitive picturesqueness by means of a sham surface
of rough-cast pebbles and white-wash, while within, to conceal the rough discomfort of the
surface, successive coatings of plaster, and finally, paper, were added, with a wood-skirting
at the foot thrice painted. Everything in this was hand work, the laying of the bricks, the
dabbing of the plaster, the smoothing of the paper; it is a house built of hands--and some
I saw were bleeding hands--just as in the days of the pyramids, when the only engines were
living men. The whole confection is now undergoing incalculable chemical reactions between
its several parts. Lime, mortar, and microscopical organisms are producing undesigned chromatic
effects in the paper and plaster; the plaster, having methods of expansion and contraction
of its own, crinkles and cracks; the skirting, having absorbed moisture and now drying again,
opens its joints; the rough-cast coquettes with the frost and opens chinks and crannies for
the humbler creation. I fail to see the necessity of (and, accordingly, I resent bitterly)
all these coral-reef methods. Better walls than this, and better and less life-wasting ways
of making them, are surely possible. In the wall in question, concrete would have been cheaper
and better than bricks if only "the men" had understood it. But I can dream at last of much
more revolutionary affairs, of a thing running to and fro along a temporary rail, that will
squeeze out wall as one squeezes paint from a tube, and form its surface with a pat or two
as it sets. Moreover, I do not see at all why the walls of small dwelling-houses should be
so solid as they are. There still hangs about us the monumental traditions of the pyramids.
It ought to be possible to build sound, portable, and habitable houses of felted wire-netting
and weather-proofed paper upon a light framework. This sort of thing is, no doubt, abominably
ugly at present, but that is because architects and designers, being for the most part inordinately
cultured and quite uneducated, are unable to cope with its fundamentally novel problems. A
few energetic men might at any time set out to alter all this. And with the inevitable revolutions
that must come about in domestic fittings, and which I hope to discuss more fully in the next
paper, it is open to question whether many ground landlords may not find they have work for
the house-breakers rather than wealth unlimited falling into their hands when the building
leases their solicitors so ingeniously draw up do at last expire.

[27] The new aspects of building, for example, that have been brought about by the entrance
of water and gas into the house, and the application of water to sanitation.

[28] The future of the servant class and the future of the artist are two interesting questions
that will be most conveniently mentioned at a later stage, when we come to discuss the domestic
life in greater detail than is possible before we have formed any clear notion of the sort
of people who will lead that life.

[29] Even the physical conditions under which the House of Commons meets and plays at government,
are ridiculously obsolete. Every disputable point is settled by a division, a bell rings, there
is shouting and running, the members come blundering into the chamber and sort themselves with
much loutish shuffling and shoving into the division lobbies. They are counted, as illiterate
farmers count sheep; amidst much fuss and confusion they return to their places, and the tellers
vociferate the result. The waste of time over these antics is enormous, and they are often
repeated many times in an evening. For the lack of time, the House of Commons is unable to
perform the most urgent and necessary legislative duties--it has this year hung up a cryingly
necessary Education Bill, a delay that will in the end cost Great Britain millions--but not
a soul in it has had the necessary common sense to point out that an electrician and an expert
locksmith could in a few weeks, and for a few hundred pounds, devise and construct a member's
desk and key, committee-room tapes and voting-desks, and a general recording apparatus, that
would enable every member within the precincts to vote, and that would count, record, and report
the votes within the space of a couple of minutes.

IV

CERTAIN SOCIAL REACTIONS

We are now in a position to point out and consider certain general ways in which the various
factors and elements in the deliquescent society of the present time will react one upon another,
and to speculate what definite statements, if any, it may seem reasonable to make about the
individual people of the year 2000--or thereabouts--from the reaction of these classes we have
attempted to define.

To begin with, it may prove convenient to speculate upon the trend of development of that class
about which we have the most grounds for certainty in the coming time. The shareholding class,
the rout of the Abyss, the speculator, may develop in countless ways according to the varying
development of exterior influences upon them, but of the most typical portion of the central
body, the section containing the scientific engineering or scientific medical sort of people,
we can postulate certain tendencies with some confidence. Certain ways of thought they must
develop, certain habits of mind and eye they will radiate out into the adjacent portions of
the social mass. We can even, I think, deduce some conception of the home in which a fairly
typical example of this body will be living within a reasonable term of years.

The mere fact that a man is an engineer or a doctor, for example, should imply now, and certainly
will imply in the future, that he has received an education of a certain definite type; he
will have a general acquaintance with the scientific interpretation of the universe, and he
will have acquired certain positive and practical habits of mind. If the methods of thought
of any individual in this central body are not practical and positive, he will tend to drift
out of it to some more congenial employment. He will almost necessarily have a strong imperative
to duty quite apart from whatever theological opinions he may entertain, because if he has
not such an inherent imperative, life will have very many more alluring prospects than this.
His religious conclusions, whatever they may be, will be based upon some orderly theological
system that must have honestly admitted and reconciled his scientific beliefs; the emotional
and mystical elements in his religion will be subordinate or absent. Essentially he will be
a moral man, certainly so far as to exercise self-restraint and live in an ordered way. Unless
this is so, he will be unable to give his principal energies to thought and work--that is,
he will not be a good typical engineer. If sensuality appear at all largely in this central
body, therefore,--a point we must leave open here--it will appear without any trappings of
sentiment or mysticism, frankly on Pauline lines, wine for the stomach's sake, and it is better
to marry than to burn, a concession to the flesh necessary to secure efficiency. Assuming in
our typical case that pure indulgence does not appear or flares and passes, then either he
will be single or more or less married. The import of that "more or less" will be discussed
later, for the present we may very conveniently conceive him married under the traditional
laws of Christendom. Having a mind considerably engaged, he will not have the leisure for a
wife of the distracting, perplexing personality kind, and in our typical case, which will be
a typically sound and successful one, we may picture him wedded to a healthy, intelligent,
and loyal person, who will be her husband's companion in their common leisure, and as mother
of their three or four children and manager of his household, as much of a technically capable
individual as himself. He will be a father of several children, I think, because his scientific
mental basis will incline him to see the whole of life as a struggle to survive; he will recognize
that a childless, sterile life, however pleasant, is essentially failure and perversion, and
he will conceive his honour involved in the possession of offspring.

Such a couple will probably dress with a view to decent convenience, they will not set the
fashions, as I shall presently point out, but they will incline to steady and sober them, they
will avoid exciting colour contrasts and bizarre contours. They will not be habitually promenaders,
or greatly addicted to theatrical performances; they will probably find their secondary interests--the
cardinal one will of course be the work in hand--in a not too imaginative prose literature,
in travel and journeys and in the less sensuous aspects of music. They will probably take a
considerable interest in public affairs. Their ménage, which will consist of father, mother,
and children, will, I think, in all probability, be servantless.

They will probably not keep a servant for two very excellent reasons, because in the first
place they will not want one, and in the second they will not get one if they do. A servant
is necessary in the small, modern house, partly to supplement the deficiencies of the wife,
but mainly to supplement the deficiencies of the house. She comes to cook and perform various
skilled duties that the wife lacks either knowledge or training, or both, to perform regularly
and expeditiously. Usually it must be confessed that the servant in the small household fails
to perform these skilled duties completely. But the great proportion of the servant's duties
consists merely in drudgery that the stupidities of our present-day method of house construction
entail, and which the more sanely constructed house of the future will avoid. Consider, for
instance, the wanton disregard of avoidable toil displayed in building houses with a service
basement without lifts! Then most dusting and sweeping would be quite avoidable if houses were
wiselier done. It is the lack of proper warming appliances which necessitates a vast amount
of coal carrying and dirt distribution, and it is this dirt mainly that has so painfully to
be removed again. The house of the future will probably be warmed in its walls from some power-generating
station, as, indeed, already very many houses are lit at the present day. The lack of sane
methods of ventilation also enhances the general dirtiness and dustiness of the present-day
home, and gas-lighting and the use of tarnishable metals, wherever possible, involve further
labour. But air will enter the house of the future through proper tubes in the walls, which
will warm it and capture its dust, and it will be spun out again by a simple mechanism. And
by simple devices such sweeping as still remains necessary can be enormously lightened. The
fact that in existing homes the skirting meets the floor at right angles makes sweeping about
twice as troublesome as it will be when people have the sense and ability to round off the
angle between wall and floor.

So one great lump of the servant's toil will practically disappear. Two others are already
disappearing. In many houses there are still the offensive duties of filling lamps and blacking
boots to be done. Our coming house, however, will have no lamps to need filling, and, as for
the boots, really intelligent people will feel the essential ugliness of wearing the evidence
of constant manual toil upon their persons. They will wear sorts of shoes and boots that can
be cleaned by wiping in a minute or so. Take now the bedroom work. The lack of ingenuity in
sanitary fittings at present forbids the obvious convenience of hot and cold water supply to
the bedroom, and there is a mighty fetching and carrying of water and slops to be got through
daily. All that will cease. Every bedroom will have its own bath-dressing room which any well-bred
person will be intelligent and considerate enough to use and leave without the slightest disarrangement.
This, so far as "upstairs" goes, really only leaves bedmaking to be done, and a bed does not
take five minutes to make. Downstairs a vast amount of needless labour at present arises out
of table wear. "Washing up" consists of a tedious cleansing and wiping of each table utensil
in turn, whereas it should be possible to immerse all dirty table wear in a suitable solvent
for a few minutes and then run that off for the articles to dry. The application of solvents
to window cleaning, also, would be a possible thing but for the primitive construction of our
windows, which prevents anything but a painful rub, rub, rub, with the leather. A friend of
mine in domestic service tells me that this rubbing is to get the window dry, and this seems
to be the general impression, but I think it incorrect. The water is not an adequate solvent,
and enough cannot be used under existing conditions. Consequently, if the window is cleaned
and left wet, it dries in drops, and these drops contain dirt in solution which remain as spots.
But water containing a suitable solvent could quite simply be made to run down a window for
a few minutes from pinholes in a pipe above into a groove below, and this could be followed
by pure rain water for an equal time, and in this way the whole window cleaning in the house
could, I imagine, be reduced to the business of turning on a tap.

There remains the cooking. To-day cooking, with its incidentals, is a very serious business;
the coaling, the ashes, the horrible moments of heat, the hot black things to handle, the silly
vague recipes, the want of neat apparatus, and the want of intelligence to demand or use neat
apparatus. One always imagines a cook working with a crimsoned face and bare blackened arms.
But with a neat little range, heated by electricity and provided with thermometers, with absolutely
controllable temperatures and proper heat screens, cooking might very easily be made a pleasant
amusement for intelligent invalid ladies. Which reminds one, by-the-by, as an added detail
to our previous sketch of the scenery of the days to come, that there will be no chimneys at
all to the house of the future of this type, except the flue for the kitchen smells.[30] This
will not only abolish the chimney stack, but make the roof a clean and pleasant addition to
the garden spaces of the home.

I do not know how long all these things will take to arrive. But certainly the engineering
and medical sorts of person will be best able to appreciate the possibilities of cutting down
the irksome labours of the contemporary home, and most likely to first demand and secure them.

The wife of this ideal home may probably have a certain distaste for vicarious labour, that
so far as the immediate minimum of duties goes will probably carry her through them. There
will be few servants obtainable for the small homes of the future, and that may strengthen
her sentiments. Hardly any woman seems to object to a system of things which provides that
another woman should be made rough-handed and kept rough-minded for her sake, but with the
enormous diffusion of levelling information that is going on, a perfectly valid objection will
probably come from the other side in this transaction. The servants of the past and the only
good servants of to-day are the children of servants or the children of the old labour base
of the social pyramid, until recently a necessary and self-respecting element in the State.
Machinery has smashed that base and scattered its fragments; the tradition of self-respecting
inferiority is being utterly destroyed in the world. The contingents of the Abyss, even, will
not supply daughters for this purpose. In the community of the United States no native-born
race of white servants has appeared, and the emancipated young negress degenerates towards
the impossible--which is one of the many stimulants to small ingenuities that may help very
powerfully to give that nation the industrial leadership of the world. The servant of the future,
if indeed she should still linger in the small household, will be a person alive to a social
injustice and the unsuccessful rival of the wife. Such servants as wealth will retain will
be about as really loyal and servile as hotel waiters, and on the same terms. For the middling
sort of people in the future maintaining a separate ménage there is nothing for it but the
practically automatic house or flat, supplemented, perhaps, by the restaurant or the hotel.

Almost certainly, for reasons detailed in the second chapter of these Anticipations, this household,
if it is an ideal type, will be situated away from the central "Town" nucleus and in pleasant
surroundings. And I imagine that the sort of woman who would be mother and mistress of such
a home would not be perfectly content unless there were a garden about the house. On account
of the servant difficulty, again, this garden would probably be less laboriously neat than
many of our gardens to-day--no "bedding-out," for example, and a certain parsimony of mown lawn....

To such a type of home it seems the active, scientifically trained people will tend. But usually,
I think, the prophet is inclined to over estimate the number of people who will reach this
condition of affairs in a generation or so, and to under estimate the conflicting tendencies
that will make its attainment difficult to all, and impossible to many, and that will for many
years tint and blotch the achievement of those who succeed with patches of unsympathetic colour.
To understand just how modifications may come in, it is necessary to consider the probable
line of development of another of the four main elements in the social body of the coming time.
As a consequence and visible expression of the great new growth of share and stock property
there will be scattered through the whole social body, concentrated here perhaps, and diffused
there, but everywhere perceived, the members of that new class of the irresponsible wealthy,
a class, as I have already pointed out in the preceding chapter, miscellaneous and free to
a degree quite unprecedented in the world's history. Quite inevitably great sections of this
miscellany will develop characteristics almost diametrically opposed to those of the typical
working expert class, and their gravitational attraction may influence the lives of this more
efficient, finally more powerful, but at present much less wealthy, class to a very considerable
degree of intimacy.

The rich shareholder and the skilled expert must necessarily be sharply contrasted types, and
of the two it must be borne in mind that it is the rich shareholder who spends the money. While
occupation and skill incline one towards severity and economy, leisure and unlimited means
involve relaxation and demand the adventitious interest of decoration. The shareholder will
be the decorative influence in the State. So far as there will be a typical shareholder's house,
we may hazard that it will have rich colours, elaborate hangings, stained glass adornments,
and added interests in great abundance. This "leisure class" will certainly employ the greater
proportion of the artists, decorators, fabric makers, and the like, of the coming time. It
will dominate the world of art--and we may say, with some confidence, that it will influence
it in certain directions. For example, standing apart from the movement of the world, as they
will do to a very large extent, the archaic, opulently done, will appeal irresistibly to very
many of these irresponsible rich as the very quintessence of art. They will come to art with
uncritical, cultured minds, full of past achievements, ignorant of present necessities. Art
will be something added to life--something stuck on and richly reminiscent--not a manner pervading
all real things. We may be pretty sure that very few will grasp the fact that an iron bridge
or a railway engine may be artistically done--these will not be "art" objects, but hostile
novelties. And, on the other hand, we can pretty confidently foretell a spacious future and
much amplification for that turgid, costly, and deliberately anti-contemporary group of styles
of which William Morris and his associates have been the fortunate pioneers. And the same principles
will apply to costume. A non-functional class of people cannot have a functional costume, the
whole scheme of costume, as it will be worn by the wealthy classes in the coming years, will
necessarily be of that character which is called fancy dress. Few people will trouble to discover
the most convenient forms and materials, and endeavour to simplify them and reduce them to
beautiful forms, while endless enterprising tradesmen will be alert for a perpetual succession
of striking novelties. The women will ransack the ages for becoming and alluring anachronisms,
the men will appear in the elaborate uniforms of "games," in modifications of "court" dress,
in picturesque revivals of national costumes, in epidemic fashions of the most astonishing sort....

Now, these people, so far as they are spenders of money, and so far as he is a spender of money,
will stand to this ideal engineering sort of person, who is the vitally important citizen of
a progressive scientific State, in a competitive relation. In most cases, whenever there is
something that both want, one against the other, the shareholder will get it; in most cases,
where it is a matter of calling the tune, the shareholder will call the tune. For example,
the young architect, conscious of exceptional ability, will have more or less clearly before
him the alternatives of devoting himself to the novel, intricate, and difficult business of
designing cheap, simple, and mechanically convenient homes for people who will certainly not
be highly remunerative, and will probably be rather acutely critical, or of perfecting himself
in some period of romantic architecture, or striking out some startling and attractive novelty
of manner or material which will be certain, sooner or later, to meet its congenial shareholder.
Even if he hover for a time between these alternatives, he will need to be a person not only
of exceptional gifts, but what is by no means a common accompaniment of exceptional gifts,
exceptional strength of character, to take the former line. Consequently, for many years yet,
most of the experimental buildings and novel designs, that initiate discussion and develop
the general taste, will be done primarily to please the more originative shareholders and not
to satisfy the demands of our engineer or doctor; and the strictly commercial builders, who
will cater for all but the wealthiest engineers, scientific investigators, and business men,
being unable to afford specific designs, will--amidst the disregarded curses of these more
intelligent customers--still simply reproduce in a cheaper and mutilated form such examples
as happen to be set. Practically, that is to say, the shareholder will buy up almost all the
available architectural talent.

This modifies our conception of the outer appearance of that little house we imagined. Unless
it happens to be the house of an exceptionally prosperous member of the utilitarian professions,
it will lack something of the neat directness implicit in our description, something of that
inevitable beauty that arises out of the perfect attainment of ends--for very many years, at
any rate. It will almost certainly be tinted, it may even be saturated, with the secondhand
archaic. The owner may object, but a busy man cannot stop his life work to teach architects
what they ought to know. It may be heated electrically, but it will have sham chimneys, in
whose darkness, unless they are built solid, dust and filth will gather, and luckless birds
and insects pass horrible last hours of ineffectual struggle. It may have automatic window-cleaning
arrangements, but they will be hidden by "picturesque" mullions. The sham chimneys will, perhaps,
be made to smoke genially in winter by some ingenious contrivance, there may be sham open fireplaces
within, with ingle nooks about the sham glowing logs. The needlessly steep roofs will have
a sham sag and sham timbered gables, and probably forced lichens will give it a sham appearance
of age. Just that feeble-minded contemporary shirking of the truth of things that has given
the world such stockbroker in armour affairs as the Tower Bridge and historical romance, will,
I fear, worry the lucid mind in a great multitude of the homes that the opening half, at least,
of this century will produce.

In quite a similar way the shareholding body will buy up all the clever and more enterprising
makers and designers of clothing and adornment, he will set the fashion of almost all ornament,
in bookbinding and printing and painting, for example, furnishing, and indeed of almost all
things that are not primarily produced "for the million," as the phrase goes. And where that
sort of thing comes in, then, so far as the trained and intelligent type of man goes, for many
years yet it will be simply a case of the nether instead of the upper millstone. Just how far
the influence and contagion of the shareholding mass will reach into this imaginary household
of non-shareholding efficients, and just how far the influence of science and mechanism will
penetrate the minds and methods of the rich, becomes really one of the most important questions
with which these speculations will deal. For this argument that he will perhaps be able to
buy up the architect and the tailor and the decorator and so forth is merely preliminary to
the graver issue. It is just possible that the shareholder may, to a very large extent--in
a certain figurative sense, at least--buy up much of the womankind that would otherwise be
available to constitute those severe, capable, and probably by no means unhappy little establishments
to which our typical engineers will tend, and so prevent many women from becoming mothers of
a regenerating world. The huge secretion of irresponsible wealth by the social organism is
certain to affect the tone of thought of the entire feminine sex profoundly--the exact nature
of this influence we may now consider.

The gist of this inquiry lies in the fact that, while a man's starting position in this world
of to-day is entirely determined by the conditions of his birth and early training, and his
final position the slow elaborate outcome of his own sustained efforts to live, a woman, from
the age of sixteen onward--as the world goes now--is essentially adventurous, the creature
of circumstances largely beyond her control and foresight. A virile man, though he, too, is
subject to accidents, may, upon most points, still hope to plan and determine his life; the
life of a woman is all accident. Normally she lives in relation to some specific man, and until
that man is indicated her preparation for life must be of the most tentative sort. She lives,
going nowhere, like a cabman on the crawl, and at any time she may find it open to her to assist
some pleasure-loving millionaire to spend his millions, or to play her part in one of the many
real, original, and only derivatives of the former aristocratic "Society" that have developed
themselves among independent people. Even if she is a serious and labour-loving type, some
shareholder may tempt her with the prospect of developing her exceptional personality in ease
and freedom and in "doing good" with his money. With the continued growth of the shareholding
class, the brighter-looking matrimonial chances, not to speak of the glittering opportunities
that are not matrimonial, will increase. Reading is now the privilege of all classes, there
are few secrets of etiquette that a clever lower-class girl will fail to learn, there are few
such girls, even now, who are not aware of their wide opportunities, or at least their wide
possibilities, of luxury and freedom, there are still fewer who, knowing as much, do not let
it affect their standards and conception of life. The whole mass of modern fiction written
by women for women, indeed, down to the cheapest novelettes, is saturated with the romance
of mésalliance. And even when the specific man has appeared, the adventurous is still not shut
out of a woman's career. A man's affections may wander capriciously and leave him but a little
poorer or a little better placed; for the women they wander from, however, the issue is an
infinitely graver one, and the serious wandering of a woman's fancy may mean the beginning
of a new world for her. At any moment the chances of death may make the wife a widow, may sweep
out of existence all that she had made fundamental in her life, may enrich her with insurance
profits or hurl her into poverty, and restore all the drifting expectancy of her adolescence....

Now, it is difficult to say why we should expect the growing girl, in whom an unlimited ambition
and egotism is as natural and proper a thing as beauty and high spirits, to deny herself some
dalliance with the more opulent dreams that form the golden lining to these precarious prospects?
How can we expect her to prepare herself solely, putting all wandering thoughts aside, for
the servantless cookery, domestic Kindergarten work, the care of hardy perennials, and low-pitched
conversation of the engineer's home? Supposing, after all, there is no predestinate engineer!
The stories the growing girl now prefers, and I imagine will in the future still prefer, deal
mainly with the rich and free; the theatre she will prefer to visit will present the lives
and loves of opulent people with great precision and detailed correctness; her favourite periodicals
will reflect that life; her schoolmistress, whatever her principles, must have an eye to her
"chances." And even after Fate or a gust of passion has whirled her into the arms of our busy
and capable fundamental man, all these things will still be in her imagination and memory.
Unless he is a person of extraordinary mental prepotency, she will almost insensibly determine
the character of the home in a direction quite other than that of our first sketch. She will
set herself to realize, as far as her husband's means and credit permit, the ideas of the particular
section of the wealthy that have captured her. If she is a fool, her ideas of life will presently
come into complete conflict with her husband's in a manner that, as the fumes of the love potion
leave his brain, may bring the real nature of the case home to him. If he is of that resolute
strain to whom the world must finally come, he may rebel and wade through tears and crises
to his appointed work again. The cleverer she is, and the finer and more loyal her character
up to a certain point, the less likely this is to happen, the more subtle and effective will
be her hold upon her husband, and the more probable his perversion from the austere pursuit
of some interesting employment, towards the adventures of modern money-getting in pursuit of
her ideals of a befitting life. And meanwhile, since "one must live," the nursery that was
implicit in the background of the first picture will probably prove unnecessary. She will be,
perforce, a person not only of pleasant pursuits, but of leisure. If she endears herself to
her husband, he will feel not only the attraction but the duty of her vacant hours; he will
not only deflect his working hours from the effective to the profitable, but that occasional
burning of the midnight oil, that no brain-worker may forego if he is to retain his efficiency,
will, in the interests of some attractive theatrical performance or some agreeable social occasion,
all too frequently have to be put off or abandoned.

This line of speculation, therefore, gives us a second picture of a household to put beside
our first, a household, or rather a couple, rather more likely to be typical of the mass of
middling sort of people in those urban regions of the future than our first projection. It
will probably not live in a separate home at all, but in a flat in "Town," or at one of the
subordinate centres of the urban region we have foreseen. The apartments will be more or less
agreeably adorned in some decorative fashion akin to but less costly than some of the many
fashions that will obtain among the wealthy. They will be littered with a miscellaneous literature,
novels of an entertaining and stimulating sort predominating, and with bric-à-brac; in a childless
household there must certainly be quaint dolls, pet images, and so forth, and perhaps a canary
would find a place. I suspect there would be an edition or so of "Omar" about in this more
typical household of "Moderns," but I doubt about the Bible. The man's working books would
probably be shabby and relegated to a small study, and even these overlaid by abundant copies
of the Financial--something or other. It would still be a servantless household, and probably
not only without a nursery but without a kitchen, and in its grade and degree it would probably
have social relations directly or intermediately through rich friends with some section, some
one of the numerous cults of the quite independent wealthy.

Quite similar households to this would be even more common among those neither independent
nor engaged in work of a primarily functional nature, but endeavouring quite ostensibly to
acquire wealth by political or business ingenuity and activity, and also among the great multitude
of artists, writers, and that sort of people, whose works are their children. In comparison
with the state of affairs fifty years ago, the child-infested household is already conspicuously
rare in these classes.

These are two highly probably ménages among the central mass of the people of the coming time.
But there will be many others. The ménage à deux, one may remark, though it may be without
the presence of children, is not necessarily childless. Parentage is certainly part of the
pride of many men--though, curiously enough, it does not appear to be felt among modern European
married women as any part of their honour. Many men will probably achieve parentage, therefore,
who will not succeed in inducing, or who may possibly even be very loth to permit, their wives
to undertake more than the first beginnings of motherhood. From the moment of its birth, unless
it is kept as a pet, the child of such marriages will be nourished, taught, and trained almost
as though it were an orphan, it will have a succession of bottles and foster-mothers for body
and mind from the very beginning. Side by side with this increasing number of childless homes,
therefore, there may develop a system of Kindergarten boarding schools. Indeed, to a certain
extent such schools already exist, and it is one of the unperceived contrasts of this and any
former time how common such a separation of parents and children becomes. Except in the case
of the illegitimate and orphans, and the children of impossible (many public-house children,
e.g.), or wretched homes, boarding schools until quite recently were used only for quite big
boys and girls. But now, at every seaside town, for example, one sees a multitude of preparatory
schools, which are really not simply educational institutions, but supplementary homes. In
many cases these are conducted and very largely staffed by unmarried girls and women who are
indeed, in effect, assistant mothers. This class of capable schoolmistresses is one of the
most interesting social developments of this period. For the most part they are women who from
emotional fastidiousness, intellectual egotism, or an honest lack of passion, have refused
the common lot of marriage, women often of exceptional character and restraint, and it is well
that, at any rate, their intelligence and character should not pass fruitlessly out of being.
Assuredly for this type the future has much in store.

There are, however, still other possibilities to be considered in this matter. In these Anticipations
it is impossible to ignore the forces making for a considerable relaxation of the institution
of permanent monogamous marriage in the coming years, and of a much greater variety of establishments
than is suggested by these possibilities within the pale. I guess, without attempting to refer
to statistics, that our present society must show a quite unprecedented number and increasing
number of male and female celibates--not religious celibates, but people, for the most part,
whose standard of personal comfort has such a relation to their earning power that they shirk
or cannot enter the matrimonial grouping. The institution of permanent monogamous marriage--except
in the ideal Roman Catholic community, where it is based on the sanction of an authority which
in real Roman Catholic countries a large proportion of the men decline to obey--is sustained
at present entirely by the inertia of custom, and by a number of sentimental and practical
considerations, considerations that may very possibly undergo modification in the face of the
altered relationship of husband and wife that the present development of childless ménages
is bringing about. The practical and sustaining reason for monogamy is the stability it gives
to the family; the value of a stable family lies in the orderly upbringing in an atmosphere
of affection that it secures in most cases for its more or less numerous children. The monogamous
family has indisputably been the civilizing unit of the pre-mechanical civilized state. It
must be remembered that both for husband and wife in most cases monogamic life marriage involves
an element of sacrifice, it is an institution of late appearance in the history of mankind,
and it does not completely fit the psychology or physiology of any but very exceptional characters
in either sex. For the man it commonly involves considerable restraint; he must ride his imagination
on the curb, or exceed the code in an extremely dishonouring, furtive, and unsatisfactory manner
while publicly professing an impossible virtue; for the woman it commonly implies many uncongenial
submissions. There are probably few married couples who have escaped distressful phases of
bitterness and tears, within the constraint of their, in most cases, practically insoluble
bond. But, on the other hand, and as a reward that in the soberer, mainly agricultural civilization
of the past, and among the middling class of people, at any rate, has sufficed, there comes
the great development of associations and tendernesses that arises out of intimate co-operation
in an established home, and particularly out of the linking love and interest of children's
lives....

But how does this fit into the childless, disunited, and probably shifting ménage of our second
picture?

It must be borne in mind that it has been the middling and lower mass of people, the tenants
and agriculturists, the shopkeepers, and so forth, men needing before all things the absolutely
loyal help of wives, that has sustained permanent monogamic marriage whenever it has been sustained.
Public monogamy has existed on its merits--that is, on the merits of the wife. Merely ostensible
reasons have never sufficed. No sort of religious conviction, without a real practical utility,
has ever availed to keep classes of men, unhampered by circumstances, to its restrictions.
In all times, and holding all sorts of beliefs, the specimen humanity of courts and nobilities
is to be found developing the most complex qualifications of the code. In some quiet corner
of Elysium the bishops of the early Georges, the ecclesiastical dignitaries of the contemporary
French and Spanish courts, the patriarchs of vanished Byzantium, will find a common topic with
the spiritual advisers of the kingdoms of the East in this difficult theme,--the theme of the
concessions permissible and expedient to earnest believers encumbered with leisure and a superfluity
of power.... It is not necessary to discuss religious development, therefore, before deciding
this issue. We are dealing now with things deeper and forces infinitely more powerful than
the mere convictions of men.

Will a generation to whom marriage will be no longer necessarily associated with the birth
and rearing of children, or with the immediate co-operation and sympathy of husband and wife
in common proceedings, retain its present feeling for the extreme sanctity of the permanent
bond? Will the agreeable, unemployed, childless woman, with a high conception of her personal
rights, who is spending her husband's earnings or income in some pleasant discrepant manner,
a type of woman there are excellent reasons for anticipating will become more frequent--will
she continue to share the honours and privileges of the wife, mother, and helper of the old
dispensation? and in particular, will the great gulf that is now fixed by custom between her
and the agreeable unmarried lady who is similarly employed remain so inexorably wide? Charity
is in the air, and why should not charming people meet one another? And where is either of
these ladies to find the support that will enable her to insist upon the monopoly that conventional
sentiment, so far as it finds expression, concedes her? The danger to them both of the theory
of equal liberty is evident enough. On the other hand, in the case of the unmarried mother
who may be helped to hold her own, or who may be holding her own in the world, where will the
moral censor of the year 1950 find his congenial following to gather stones? Much as we may
regret it, it does very greatly affect the realities of this matter, that with the increased
migration of people from home to home amidst the large urban regions that, we have concluded,
will certainly obtain in the future, even if moral reprobation and minor social inconveniences
do still attach to certain sorts of status, it will probably be increasingly difficult to determine
the status of people who wish to conceal it for any but criminal ends.

In another direction there must be a movement towards the relaxation of the marriage law and
of divorce that will complicate status very confusingly. In the past it has been possible to
sustain several contrasting moral systems in each of the practically autonomous states of the
world, but with a development and cheapening of travel and migration that is as yet only in
its opening phase, an increasing conflict between dissimilar moral restrictions must appear.
Even at present, with only the most prosperous classes of the American and Western European
countries migrating at all freely, there is a growing amount of inconvenience arising out of
these--from the point of view of social physiology--quite arbitrary differences. A man or woman
may, for example, have been the injured party in some conjugal complication, may have established
a domicile and divorced the erring spouse in certain of the United States, may have married
again there with absolute local propriety, and may be a bigamist and a criminal in England.
A child may be a legal child in Denmark or Australia, and a bastard in this austerer climate.
These things are, however, only the first intimations of much more profound reactions. Almost
all the great European Powers, and the United States also, are extending their boundaries to
include great masses of non-Christian polygamous peoples, and they are permeating these peoples
with railways, printed matter, and all the stimulants of our present state. With the spread
of these conveniences there is no corresponding spread of Christianity. These people will not
always remain in the ring fence of their present regions; their superseded princes, and rulers,
and public masters, and managers, will presently come to swell the shareholding mass of the
appropriating Empire. Europeans, on the other hand, will drift into these districts, and under
the influence of their customs, intermarriages and interracial reaction will increase; in a
world which is steadily abolishing locality, the compromise of local concessions, of localized
recognition of the "custom of the country," cannot permanently avail. Statesmen will have to
face the alternative of either widening the permissible variations of the marriage contract,
or of acute racial and religious stresses, of a vast variety of possible legal betrayals, and
the appearance of a body of self-respecting people, outside the law and public respect, a body
that will confer a touch of credit upon, because it will share the stigma of, the deliberately
dissolute and criminal. And whether the moral law shrivels relatively by mere exclusiveness--as
in religious matters the Church of England, for example, has shrivelled to the proportions
of a mere sectarian practice--or whether it broadens itself to sustain justice in a variety
of sexual contracts, the nett result, so far as our present purpose goes, will be the same.
All these forces, making for moral relaxation in the coming time, will probably be greatly
enhanced by the line of development certain sections of the irresponsible wealthy will almost
certainly follow.

Let me repeat that the shareholding rich man of the new time is in a position of freedom almost
unparalleled in the history of men. He has sold his permission to control and experiment with
the material wealth of the community for freedom--for freedom from care, labour, responsibility,
custom, local usage and local attachment. He may come back again into public affairs if he
likes--that is his private concern. Within the limits of the law and his capacity and courage,
he may do as the imagination of his heart directs. Now, such an experimental and imperfect
creature as man, a creature urged by such imperious passions, so weak in imagination and controlled
by so feeble a reason, receives such absolute freedom as this only at infinite peril. To a
great number of these people, in the second or third generation, this freedom will mean vice,
the subversion of passion to inconsequent pleasures. We have on record, in the personal history
of the Roman emperors, how freedom and uncontrolled power took one representative group of
men, men not entirely of one blood nor of one bias, but reinforced by the arbitrary caprice
of adoption and political revolution. We have in the history of the Russian empresses a glimpse
of similar feminine possibilities. We are moving towards a time when, through this confusion
of moral standards I have foretold, the pressure of public opinion in these matters must be
greatly relaxed, when religion will no longer speak with a unanimous voice, and when freedom
of escape from disapproving neighbours will be greatly facilitated. In the past, when depravity
had a centre about a court, the contagion of its example was limited to the court region, but
every idle rich man of this great, various, and widely diffused class, will play to a certain
extent the moral rôle of a court. In these days of universal reading and vivid journalism,
every novel infraction of the code will be known of, thought about, and more or less thoroughly
discussed by an enormous and increasing proportion of the common people. In the past it has
been possible for the churches to maintain an attitude of respectful regret towards the lapses
of the great, and even to co-operate in these lapses with a sympathetic privacy, while maintaining
a wholesome rigour towards vulgar vice. But in the coming time there will be no Great, but
many rich, the middling sort of people will probably be better educated as a whole than the
rich, and the days of their differential treatment are at an end.

It is foolish, in view of all these things, not to anticipate and prepare for a state of things
when not only will moral standards be shifting and uncertain, admitting of physiologically
sound ménages of very variable status, but also when vice and depravity, in every form that
is not absolutely penal, will be practised in every grade of magnificence and condoned. This
means that not only will status cease to be simple and become complex and varied, but that
outside the system of ménages now recognized, and under the disguise of which all other ménages
shelter, there will be a vast drifting and unstable population grouped in almost every conceivable
form of relation. The world of Georgian England was a world of Homes; the world of the coming
time will still have its Homes, its real Mothers, the custodians of the human succession, and
its cared-for children, the inheritors of the future, but in addition to this Home world, frothing
tumultuously over and amidst these stable rocks, there will be an enormous complex of establishments,
and hotels, and sterile households, and flats, and all the elaborate furnishing and appliances
of a luxurious extinction.

And since in the present social chaos there does not yet exist any considerable body of citizens--comparable
to the agricultural and commercial middle class of England during the period of limited monarchy--that
will be practically unanimous in upholding any body of rules of moral restraint, since there
will probably not appear for some generations any body propounding with wide-reaching authority
a new definitely different code to replace the one that is now likely to be increasingly disregarded,
it follows that the present code with a few interlined qualifications and grudging legal concessions
will remain nominally operative in sentiment and practice while being practically disregarded,
glossed, or replaced in numberless directions. It must be pointed out that in effect, what
is here forecast for questions of ménage and moral restraints has already happened to a very
large extent in religious matters. There was a time when it was held--and I think rightly--that
a man's religious beliefs, and particularly his method of expressing them, was a part not of
his individual but of his social life. But the great upheavals of the Reformation resulted
finally in a compromise, a sort of truce, that has put religious belief very largely out of
intercourse and discussion. It is conceded that within the bounds of the general peace and
security a man may believe and express his belief in matters of religion as he pleases, not
because it is better so, but because for the present epoch there is no way nor hope of attaining
unanimous truth. There is a decided tendency that will, I believe, prevail towards the same
compromise in the question of private morals. There is a convention to avoid all discussion
of creeds in general social intercourse; and a similar convention to avoid the point of status
in relation to marriage, one may very reasonably anticipate, will be similarly recognized.

But this impending dissolution of a common standard of morals does not mean universal depravity
until some great reconstruction obtains any more than the obsolescence of the Conventicle Act
means universal irreligion. It means that for one Morality there will be many moralities. Each
human being will, in the face of circumstances, work out his or her particular early training
as his or her character determines. And although there will be a general convention upon which
the most diverse people will meet, it will only be with persons who have come to identical
or similar conclusions in the matter of moral conduct and who are living in similar ménages,
just as now it is only with people whose conversation implies a certain community or kinship
of religious belief, that really frequent and intimate intercourse will go on. In other words,
there will be a process of moral segregation[31] set up. Indeed, such a process is probably
already in operation, amidst the deliquescent social mass. People will be drawn together into
little groups of similar ménages having much in common. And this--in view of the considerations
advanced in the first two chapters, considerations all converging on the practical abolition
of distances and the general freedom of people to live anywhere they like over large areas--will
mean very frequently an actual local segregation. There will be districts that will be clearly
recognized and marked as "nice," fast regions, areas of ramshackle Bohemianism, regions of
earnest and active work, old-fashioned corners and Hill Tops. Whole regions will be set aside
for the purposes of opulent enjoyment--a thing already happening, indeed, at points along the
Riviera to-day. Already the superficial possibilities of such a segregation have been glanced
at. It has been pointed out that the enormous urban region of the future may present an extraordinary
variety of districts, suburbs, and subordinate centres within its limiting boundaries, and
here we have a very definite enforcement of that probability.

In the previous chapter I spoke of boating centres and horsey suburbs, and picturesque hilly
districts and living places by the sea, of promenade centres and theatrical districts; I hinted
at various fashions in architecture, and suchlike things, but these exterior appearances will
be but the outward and visible sign of inward and more spiritual distinctions. The people who
live in the good hunting country and about that glittering Grand Stand, will no longer be even
pretending to live under the same code as those picturesque musical people who have concentrated
on the canoe-dotted river. Where the promenaders gather, and the bands are playing, and the
pretty little theatres compete, the pleasure seeker will be seeking such pleasure as he pleases,
no longer debased by furtiveness and innuendo, going his primrose path to a congenial, picturesque,
happy and highly desirable extinction. Just over the hills, perhaps, a handful of opulent shareholders
will be pleasantly preserving the old traditions of a landed aristocracy, with servants, tenants,
vicar, and other dependents all complete, and what from the point of view of social physiology
will really be an arrested contingent of the Abyss, but all nicely washed and done good to,
will pursue home industries in model cottages in a quite old English and exemplary manner.
Here the windmills will spin and the waterfalls be trapped to gather force, and the quiet-eyed
master of the machinery will have his office and perhaps his private home. Here about the great
college and its big laboratories there will be men and women reasoning and studying; and here,
where the homes thicken among the ripe gardens, one will hear the laughter of playing children,
the singing of children in their schools, and see their little figures going to and fro amidst
the trees and flowers....

And these segregations, based primarily on a difference in moral ideas and pursuits and ideals,
will probably round off and complete themselves at last as distinct and separate cultures.
As the moral ideas realize themselves in ménage and habits, so the ideals will seek to find
expression in a literature, and the passive drifting together will pass over into a phase of
more or less conscious and intentional organization. The segregating groups will develop fashions
of costume, types of manners and bearing, and even, perhaps, be characterized by a certain
type of facial expression. And this gives us a glimpse, an aspect of the immediate future of
literature. The kingdoms of the past were little things, and above the mass of peasants who
lived and obeyed and died, there was just one little culture to which all must needs conform.
Literature was universal within the limits of its language. Where differences of view arose
there were violent controversies, polemics, and persecutions, until one or other rendering
had won its ascendency. But this new world into which we are passing will, for several generations
at least, albeit it will be freely inter-communicating and like a whispering gallery for things
outspoken, possess no universal ideals, no universal conventions: there will be the literature
of the thought and effort of this sort of people, and the literature, thought, and effort of
that.[32] Life is already most wonderfully arbitrary and experimental, and for the coming century
this must be its essential social history, a great drifting and unrest of people, a shifting
and regrouping and breaking up again of groups, great multitudes seeking to find themselves.

The safe life in the old order, where one did this because it was right, and that because it
was the custom, when one shunned this and hated that, as lead runs into a mould, all that is
passing away. And presently, as the new century opens out, there will become more and more
distinctly emergent many new cultures and settled ways. The grey expanse of life to-day is
grey, not in its essence, but because of the minute confused mingling and mutual cancelling
of many-coloured lives. Presently these tints and shades will gather together here as a mass
of one colour, and there as a mass of another. And as these colours intensify and the tradition
of the former order fades, as these cultures become more and more shaped and conscious, as
the new literatures grow in substance and power, as differences develop from speculative matter
of opinion to definite intentions, as contrasts and affinities grow sharper and clearer, there
must follow some very extensive modifications in the collective public life. But one series
of tints, one colour must needs have a heightening value amidst this iridescent display. While
the forces at work in the wealthy and purely speculative groups of society make for disintegration,
and in many cases for positive elimination, the forces that bring together the really functional
people will tend more and more to impose upon them certain common characteristics and beliefs,
and the discovery of a group of similar and compatible class interests upon which they can
unite. They will have in their positive science a common ground for understanding the real
pride of life, the real reason for the incidental nastiness of vice, and so they will be a
sanely reproductive class, and, above all, an educating class. Just how much they will have
kept or changed of the deliquescent morality of to-day, when in a hundred years or so they
do distinctively and powerfully emerge, I cannot speculate now. They will certainly be a moral
people. They will have developed the literature of their needs, they will have discussed and
tested and thrashed out many things, they will be clear where we are confused, resolved where
we are undecided and weak. In the districts of industrial possibility, in the healthier quarters
of the town regions, away from the swamps and away from the glare of the midnight lights, these
people will be gathered together. They will be linked in professions through the agency of
great and sober papers--in England the Lancet, the British Medical Journal, and the already
great periodicals of the engineering trades, foreshadow something, but only a very little,
of what these papers may be.

FOOTNOTES:

[30] That interesting book by Mr. George Sutherland, Twentieth Century Inventions, is very
suggestive on these as on many other matters.

[31] I use the word "segregation" here and always as it is used by mineralogists to express
the slow conveyance of diffused matter upon centres of aggregation, such a process as, for
example, must have occurred in the growth of flints.

[32] Already this is becoming apparent enough. The literary "Boom," for example, affected the
entire reading public of the early nineteenth century. It was no figure of speech that "everyone"
was reading Byron or puzzling about the Waverley mystery, that first and most successful use
of the unknown author dodge. The booming of Dickens, too, forced him even into the reluctant
hands of Omar's Fitzgerald. But the factory-syren voice of the modern "boomster" touches whole
sections of the reading public no more than fog-horns going down Channel. One would as soon
think of Skinner's Soap for one's library as So-and-so's Hundred Thousand Copy Success. Instead
of "everyone" talking of the Great New Book, quite considerable numbers are shamelessly admitting
they don't read that sort of thing. One gets used to literary booms just as one gets used to
motor cars, they are no longer marvellous, universally significant things, but merely something
that goes by with much unnecessary noise and leaves a faint offence in the air. Distinctly
we segregate. And while no one dominates, while for all this bawling there are really no great
authors of imperial dimensions, indeed no great successes to compare with the Waverley boom,
or the boom of Macaulay's History, many men, too fine, too subtle, too aberrant, too unusually
fresh for any but exceptional readers, men who would probably have failed to get a hearing
at all in the past, can now subsist quite happily with the little sect they have found, or
that has found them. They live safely in their islands; a little while ago they could not have
lived at all, or could have lived only on the shameful bread of patronage, and yet it is these
very men who are often most covetously bitter against the vulgar preferences of the present day.

V

THE LIFE-HISTORY OF DEMOCRACY

In the preceding four chapters there has been developed, in a clumsy laborious way, a smudgy,
imperfect picture of the generalized civilized state of the coming century. In terms, vague
enough at times, but never absolutely indefinite, the general distribution of the population
in this state has been discussed, and its natural development into four great--but in practice
intimately interfused--classes. It has been shown--I know not how convincingly--that as the
result of forces that are practically irresistible, a world-wide process of social and moral
deliquescence is in progress, and that a really functional social body of engineering, managing
men, scientifically trained, and having common ideals and interests, is likely to segregate
and disentangle itself from our present confusion of aimless and ill-directed lives. It has
been pointed out that life is presenting an unprecedented and increasing variety of morals,
ménages, occupations and types, at present so mingled as to give a general effect of greyness,
but containing the promise of local concentration that may presently change that greyness into
kaleidoscopic effects. That image of concentrating contrasted colours will be greatly repeated
in this present chapter. In the course of these inquiries, we have permitted ourselves to take
a few concrete glimpses of households, costumes, conveyances, and conveniences of the coming
time, but only as incidental realizations of points in this general thesis. And now, assuming,
as we must necessarily do, the soundness of these earlier speculations, we have arrived at
a stage when we may consider how the existing arrangements for the ostensible government of
the State are likely to develop through their own inherent forces, and how they are likely
to be affected by the processes we have forecast.

So far, this has been a speculation upon the probable development of a civilized society in
vacuo. Attention has been almost exclusively given to the forces of development, and not to
the forces of conflict and restraint. We have ignored the boundaries of language that are flung
athwart the great lines of modern communication, we have disregarded the friction of tariffs,
the peculiar groups of prejudices and irrational instincts that inspire one miscellany of shareholders,
workers, financiers, and superfluous poor such as the English, to hate, exasperate, lie about,
and injure another such miscellany as the French or the Germans. Moreover, we have taken very
little account of the fact that, quite apart from nationality, each individual case of the
new social order is developing within the form of a legal government based on conceptions of
a society that has been superseded by the advent of mechanism. It is this last matter that
we are about to take into consideration.

Now, this age is being constantly described as a "Democratic" age; "Democracy" is alleged to
have affected art, literature, trade and religion alike in the most remarkable ways. It is
not only tacitly present in the great bulk of contemporary thought that this "Democracy" is
now dominant, but that it is becoming more and more overwhelmingly predominant as the years
pass. Allusions to Democracy are so abundant, deductions from its influence so confident and
universal, that it is worth while to point out what a very hollow thing the word in most cases
really is, a large empty object in thought, of the most vague and faded associations and the
most attenuated content, and to inquire just exactly what the original implications and present
realities of "Democracy" may be. The inquiry will leave us with a very different conception
of the nature and future of this sort of political arrangement from that generally assumed.
We have already seen in the discussion of the growth of great cities, that an analytical process
may absolutely invert the expectation based on the gross results up-to-date, and I believe
it will be equally possible to show cause for believing that the development of Democracy also
is, after all, not the opening phase of a world-wide movement going on unbendingly in its present
direction, but the first impulse of forces that will finally sweep round into a quite different
path. Flying off at a tangent is probably one of the gravest dangers and certainly the one
most constantly present, in this enterprise of prophecy.

One may, I suppose, take the Rights of Man as they are embodied in the French Declaration as
the ostentations of Democracy; our present Democratic state may be regarded as a practical
realization of these claims. As far as the individual goes, the realization takes the form
of an untrammelled liberty in matters that have heretofore been considered a part of social
procedure, in the lifting of positive religious and moral compulsions, in the recognition of
absolute property, and in the abolition of special privileges and special restrictions. Politically
modern Democracy takes the form of denying that any specific person or persons shall act as
a matter of intrinsic right or capacity on behalf of the community as a whole. Its root idea
is representation. Government is based primarily on election, and every ruler is, in theory
at least, a delegate and servant of the popular will. It is implicit in the Democratic theory
that there is such a thing as a popular will, and this is supposed to be the net sum of the
wills of all the citizens in the State, so far as public affairs are concerned. The case against
all the prolusions of ostensible Democracy is indeed so strong that it is impossible to consider
the present wide establishment of Democratic institutions as being the outcome of any process
of intellectual conviction; it arouses suspicion even whether ostensible Democracy may not
be a mere rhetorical garment for essentially different facts, and upon that suspicion we will
now inquire.

Democracy of the modern type, manhood suffrage and so forth, became a conspicuous phenomenon
in the world only in the closing decades of the eighteenth century. Its genesis is so intimately
connected with the first expansion of the productive element in the State, through mechanism
and a co-operative organization, as to point at once to a causative connection. The more closely
one looks into the social and political life of the eighteenth century the more plausible becomes
this view. New and potentially influential social factors had begun to appear--the organizing
manufacturer, the intelligent worker, the skilled tenant, and the urban abyss, and the traditions
of the old land-owning non-progressive aristocratic monarchy that prevailed in Christendom,
rendered it incapable--without some destructive shock or convulsion--of any re-organization
to incorporate or control these new factors. In the case of the British Empire an additional
stress was created by the incapacity of the formal government to assimilate the developing
civilization of the American colonies. Everywhere there were new elements, not as yet clearly
analyzed or defined, arising as mechanism arose; everywhere the old traditional government
and social system, defined and analyzed all too well, appeared increasingly obstructive, irrational,
and feeble in its attempts to include and direct these new powers. But now comes a point to
which I am inclined to attach very great importance. The new powers were as yet shapeless.
It was not the conflict of a new organization with the old. It was the preliminary dwarfing
and deliquescence of the mature old beside the embryonic mass of the new. It was impossible
then--it is, I believe, only beginning to be possible now--to estimate the proportions, possibilities,
and inter-relations of the new social orders out of which a social organization has still to
be built in the coming years. No formula of definite re-construction had been evolved, or has
even been evolved yet, after a hundred years. And these swelling inchoate new powers, whose
very birth condition was the crippling, modification, or destruction of the old order, were
almost forced to formulate their proceedings for a time, therefore, in general affirmative
propositions that were really in effect not affirmative propositions at all, but propositions
of repudiation and denial. "These kings and nobles and people privileged in relation to obsolescent
functions cannot manage our affairs"--that was evident enough, that was the really essential
question at that time, and since no other effectual substitute appeared ready made, the working
doctrine of the infallible judgment of humanity in the gross, as distinguished from the quite
indisputable incapacity of sample individuals, became, in spite of its inherent absurdity,
a convenient and acceptable working hypothesis.

Modern Democracy thus came into being, not, as eloquent persons have pretended, by the sovereign
people consciously and definitely assuming power--I imagine the sovereign people in France
during the first Revolution, for example, quite amazed and muddle-headed with it all--but by
the decline of old ruling classes in the face of the quasi-natural growth of mechanism and
industrialism, and by the unpreparedness and want of organization in the new intelligent elements
in the State. I have compared the human beings in society to a great and increasing variety
of colours tumultuously smashed up together, and giving at present a general and quite illusory
effect of grey, and I have attempted to show that there is a process in progress that will
amount at last to the segregation of these mingled tints into recognizable distinct masses
again. It is not a monotony, but an utterly disorderly and confusing variety that makes this
grey, but Democracy, for practical purposes, does really assume such a monotony. Like 'infinity',
the Democratic formula is a concrete-looking and negotiable symbol for a negation. It is the
aspect in political disputes and contrivances of that social and moral deliquescence the nature
and possibilities of which have been discussed in the preceding chapters of this volume.

Modern Democracy first asserted itself in the ancient kingdoms of France and Great Britain
(counting the former British colonies in America as a part of the latter), and it is in the
French and English-speaking communities that Democracy has developed itself most completely.
Upon the supposition we have made, Democracy broke out first in these States because they were
leading the way in material progress, because they were the first States to develop industrialism,
wholesale mechanisms, and great masses of insubordinate activity outside the recognized political
scheme, and the nature and time and violence of the outbreak was determined by the nature of
the superseded government, and the amount of stress between it and the new elements. But the
detachment of a great section of the new middle-class from the aristocratic order of England
to form the United States of America, and the sudden rejuvenescence of France by the swift
and thorough sloughing of its outworn aristocratic monarchy, the consequent wars and the Napoleonic
adventure, checked and modified the parallel development that might otherwise have happened
in country after country over all Europe west of the Carpathians. The monarchies that would
probably have collapsed through internal forces and given place to modern democratic states
were smashed from the outside, and a process of political re-construction, that has probably
missed out the complete formal Democratic phase altogether--and which has been enormously complicated
through religious, national, and dynastic traditions--set in. Throughout America, in England,
and, after extraordinary experiments, in France, political democracy has in effect legally
established itself--most completely in the United States--and the reflection and influence
of its methods upon the methods of all the other countries in intellectual contact with it,
have been so considerable as practically to make their monarchies as new in their kind, almost,
as democratic republics. In Germany, Austria, and Italy, for example, there is a press nearly
as audible as in the more frankly democratic countries, and measurably akin in influence; there
are constitutionally established legislative assemblies, and there is the same unofficial development
of powerful financial and industrial powers with which the ostensible Government must make
terms. In a vast amount of the public discussion of these States, the postulates of Democracy
are clearly implicit. Quite as much in reality as the democratic republics of America, are
they based not on classes but upon a confusion; they are, in their various degrees and with
their various individual differences, just as truly governments of the grey.

It has been argued that the grey is illusory and must sooner or later pass, and that the colour
that will emerge to predominance will take its shape as a scientifically trained middle-class
of an unprecedented sort, not arising out of the older middle-classes, but replacing them.
This class will become, I believe, at last consciously the State, controlling and restricting
very greatly the three non-functional masses with which it is as yet almost indistinguishably
mingled. The general nature of its formation within the existing confusion and its emergence
may, I think, with a certain degree of confidence, be already forecast, albeit at present its
beginnings are singularly unpromising and faint. At present the class of specially trained
and capable people--doctors, engineers, scientific men of all sorts--is quite disproportionally
absent from political life, it does not exist as a factor in that life, it is growing up outside
that life, and has still to develop, much more to display, a collective intention to come specifically
in. But the forces are in active operation to drag it into the centre of the stage for all that.

The modern democracy or democratic quasi-monarchy conducts its affairs as though there was
no such thing as special knowledge or practical education. The utmost recognition it affords
to the man who has taken the pains to know, and specifically to do, is occasionally to consult
him upon specific points and override his counsels in its ampler wisdom, or to entrust to him
some otherwise impossible duty under circumstances of extreme limitation. The man of special
equipment is treated always as if he were some sort of curious performing animal. The gunnery
specialist, for example, may move and let off guns, but he may not say where they are to be
let off--some one a little ignorant of range and trajectory does that; the engineer may move
the ship and fire the battery, but only with some man, who does not perfectly understand, shouting
instructions down a tube at him. If the cycle is to be adapted to military requirements, the
thing is entrusted to Lieutenant-Colonel Balfour. If horses are to be bought for the British
Army in India, no specialist goes, but Lord Edward Cecil. These people of the governing class
do not understand there is such a thing as special knowledge or an inexorable fact in the world;
they have been educated at schools conducted by amateur schoolmasters, whose real aim in life--if
such people can be described as having a real aim in life--is the episcopal bench, and they
have learnt little or nothing but the extraordinary power of appearances in these democratic
times. To look right and to be of good report is to succeed. What else is there? The primarily
functional men are ignored in the ostensible political scheme, it operates as though they did
not exist, as though nothing, in fact, existed but the irresponsible wealthy, and the manipulators
of irresponsible wealth, on the one hand, and a great, grey, politically indifferent community
on the other. Having regard only to the present condition of political life, it would seem
as though this state of affairs must continue indefinitely, and develop only in accordance
with the laws of inter-action between our charlatan governing class on the one hand, and the
grey mass of governed on the other. There is no way apparent in the existing political and
social order, whereby the class of really educated persons that the continually more complicated
mechanical fabric of social life is developing may be expected to come in. And in a very great
amount of current political speculation, the development and final emergence of this class
is ignored, and attention is concentrated entirely upon the inherent process of development
of the political machine. And even in that it is very easy to exaggerate the preponderance
of one or other of what are really very evenly balanced forces in the machine of democratic
government.

There are two chief sets of parts in the machine that have a certain antagonistic relation,
that play against each other, and one's conception of coming developments is necessarily determined
by the relative value one gives to these opposing elements. One may compare these two groups
to the Power and the Work, respectively, at the two ends of a lever.[33] On the one hand there
is that which pays for the machine, which distributes salaries and rewards, subsidizes newspapers
and so forth--the central influence.[34] On the other hand, there is the collectively grey
voting mass, with certain prejudices and traditions, and certain laws and limitations of thought
upon which the newspapers work, and which, within the confines of its inherent laws, they direct.
If one dwell chiefly on the possibilities of the former element, one may conjure up a practical
end to democracy in the vision of a State "run" entirely by a group of highly forcible and
intellectual persons--usually the dream takes the shape of financiers and their associates,
their perfected mechanism of party control working the elections boldly and capably, and their
public policy being directed towards financial ends. One of the common prophecies of the future
of the United States is such a domination by a group of trust organizers and political bosses.
But a man, or a group of men, so strong and intelligent as would be needed to hold an entire
party machine within the confines of his--or their collective--mind and will, could, at the
most, be but a very transitory and incidental phenomenon in the history of the world. Either
such an exploitation of the central control will have to be covert and subtle beyond any precedent
in human disingenuousness, or else its domination will have to be very amply modified indeed,
by the requirements of the second factor, and its proceedings made very largely the resultant
of that second factor's forces. Moreover, very subtle men do not aim at things of this sort,
or aiming, fail, because subtlety of intelligence involves subtlety of character, a certain
fastidiousness and a certain weakness. Now that the garrulous period, when a flow of language
and a certain effectiveness of manner was a necessary condition to political pre-eminence,
is passing away, political control falls more and more entirely into the hands of a barristerish
intriguing sort of person with a tough-wearing, leathery, practical mind. The sort of people
who will work the machine are people with "faith," as the popular preachers say, meaning, in
fact, people who do not analyze, people who will take the machine as it is, unquestioningly,
shape their ambitions to it, and--saving their vanity--work it as it wants to go. The man who
will be boss will be the man who wants to be boss, who finds, in being boss, a complete and
final satisfaction, and not the man who complicates things by wanting to be boss in order to
be, or do, something else. The machines are governed to-day, and there is every reason to believe
that they will continue to be governed, by masterful-looking resultants, masters of nothing
but compromise, and that little fancy of an inner conspiracy of control within the machine
and behind ostensible politics is really on all fours with the wonderful Rodin (of the Juif
Errant) and as probable as anything else in the romances of Eugene Sue.

If, on the other hand, we direct attention to the antagonistic element in the machine, to Public
Opinion, to the alleged collective mind of the grey mass, and consider how it is brought to
believe in itself and its possession of certain opinions by the concrete evidence of daily
newspapers and eloquent persons saying as much, we may also very readily conjure up a contrasted
vision of extraordinary demagogues or newspaper syndicates working the political machine from
that direction. So far as the demagogue goes, the increase of population, the multiplication
of amusements and interests, the differentiation of social habits, the diffusion of great towns,
all militate against that sufficient gathering of masses of voters in meeting-houses which
gave him his power in the recent past. It is improbable that ever again will any flushed undignified
man with a vast voice, a muscular face in incessant operation, collar crumpled, hair disordered,
and arms in wild activity, talking, talking, talking, talking copiously out of the windows
of railway carriages, talking on railway platforms, talking from hotel balconies, talking on
tubs, barrels, scaffoldings, pulpits--tireless and undammable--rise to be the most powerful
thing in any democratic state in the world. Continually the individual vocal demagogue dwindles,
and the element of bands and buttons, the organization of the press and procession, the share
of the machine, grows.

Mr. Harmsworth, of the London Daily Mail, in a very interesting article has glanced at certain
possibilities of power that may vest in the owners of a great system of world-wide "simultaneous"
newspapers, but he does not analyze the nature of the influence exercised by newspapers during
the successive phases of the nineteenth century, nor the probable modifications of that influence
in the years to come, and I think, on the whole, he inclines very naturally to over estimate
the amount of intentional direction that may be given by the owner of a paper to the minds
and acts of his readers, and to exceed the very definite limits within which that influence
is confined. In the earlier Victorian period, the more limited, partly educated, and still
very homogeneous enfranchised class, had a certain habit of thinking; its tranquil assurance
upon most theological and all moral and æsthetic points left political questions as the chief
field of exercise for such thinking as it did, and, as a consequence, the dignified newspapers
of that time were able to discuss, and indeed were required to discuss not only specific situations
but general principles. That indeed was their principal function, and it fell rather to the
eloquent men to misapply these principles according to the necessity of the occasion. The papers
did then very much more than they do now to mould opinion, though they did not direct affairs
to anything like the extent of their modern successors. They made roads upon which events presently
travelled in unexpected fashions. But the often cheaper and always more vivid newspapers that
have come with the New Democracy do nothing to mould opinion. Indeed, there is no longer upon
most public questions--and as I have tried to make clear in my previous paper, there is not
likely to be any longer--a collective opinion to be moulded. Protectionists, for example, are
a mere band, Free Traders are a mere band; on all these details we are in chaos. And these
modern newspapers simply endeavour to sustain a large circulation and so merit advertisements
by being as miscellaneously and vividly interesting as possible, by firing where the crowd
seems thickest, by seeking perpetually and without any attempt at consistency, the greatest
excitement of the greatest number. It is upon the cultivation and rapid succession of inflammatory
topics that the modern newspaper expends its capital and trusts to recover its reward. Its
general news sinks steadily to a subordinate position; criticism, discussion, and high responsibility
pass out of journalism, and the power of the press comes more and more to be a dramatic and
emotional power, the power to cry "Fire!" in the theatre, the power to give enormous value
for a limited time to some personality, some event, some aspect, true or false, without any
power of giving a specific direction to the forces this distortion may set going. Directly
the press of to-day passes from that sort of thing to some specific proposal, some implication
of principles and beliefs, directly it chooses and selects, then it passes from the miscellaneous
to the sectarian, and out of touch with the grey indefiniteness of the general mind. It gives
offence here, it perplexes and bores there; no more than the boss politician can the paper
of great circulation afford to work consistently for any ulterior aim.

This is the limit of the power of the modern newspaper of large circulation, the newspaper
that appeals to the grey element, to the average democratic man, the newspaper of the deliquescence,
and if our previous conclusion that human society has ceased to be homogeneous and will presently
display new masses segregating from a great confusion, holds good, that will be the limit of
its power in the future. It may undergo many remarkable developments and modifications,[35]
but none of these tend to give it any greater political importance than it has now. And so,
after all, our considerations of the probable developments of the party machine give us only
negative results, so long as the grey social confusion continues. Subject to that continuance
the party machine will probably continue as it is at present, and Democratic States and governments
follow the lines upon which they run at the present time.

Now, how will the emergent class of capable men presently begin to modify the existing form
of government in the ostensibly democratic countries and democratic monarchies? There will
be very many variations and modifications of the methods of this arrival, an infinite complication
of detailed incidents, but a general proposition will be found to hold good. The suppression
of the party machine in the purely democratic countries and of the official choice of the rich
and privileged rulers in the more monarchical ones, by capable operative and administrative
men inspired by the belief in a common theory of social order, will come about--peacefully
and gradually as a process of change, or violently as a revolution--but inevitably as the outcome
either of the imminence or else of the disasters of war.

That all these governments of confusion will drift towards war, with a spacious impulse and
a final vehemence quite out of comparison greater than the warlike impulses of former times,
is a remarkable but by no means inexplicable thing. A tone of public expression, jealous and
patriotic to the danger-point, is an unavoidable condition under which democratic governments
exist. To be patriotically quarrelsome is imperative upon the party machines that will come
to dominate the democratic countries. They will not possess detailed and definite policies
and creeds because there are no longer any detailed and definite public opinions, but they
will for all that require some ostensible purpose to explain their cohesion, some hold upon
the common man that will ensure his appearance in numbers at the polling place sufficient to
save the government from the raids of small but determined sects. That hold can be only of
one sort. Without moral or religious uniformity, with material interests as involved and confused
as a heap of spelicans, there remains only one generality for the politician's purpose, the
ampler aspect of a man's egotism, his pride in what he imagines to be his particular kind--his
patriotism. In every country amenable to democratic influences there emerges, or will emerge,
a party machine, vividly and simply patriotic--and indefinite upon the score of any other possible
consideration between man and man. This will hold true, not only of the ostensibly democratic
states, but also of such reconstituted modern monarchies as Italy and Germany, for they, too,
for all their legal difference, rest also on the grey. The party conflicts of the future will
turn very largely on the discovery of the true patriot, on the suspicion that the crown or
the machine in possession is in some more or less occult way traitorous, and almost all other
matters of contention will be shelved and allowed to stagnate, for fear of breaking the unity
of the national mechanism.

Now, patriotism is not a thing that flourishes in the void,--one needs a foreigner. A national
and patriotic party is an anti-foreign party; the altar of the modern god, Democracy, will
cry aloud for the stranger men. Simply to keep in power, and out of no love of mischief, the
government or the party machine will have to insist upon dangers and national differences,
to keep the voter to the poll by alarms, seeking ever to taint the possible nucleus of any
competing organization with the scandal of external influence. The party press will play the
watch-dog and allay all internal dissensions with its warning bay at some adjacent people,
and the adjacent peoples, for reasons to be presently expanded, will be continually more sensitive
to such baying. Already one sees country yelping at country all over the modern world, not
only in the matter of warlike issues, but with a note of quite furious commercial rivalry--quite
furious and, indeed, quite insane, since its ideal of trading enormously with absolutely ruined
and tradeless foreigners, exporting everything and importing nothing, is obviously outside
reason altogether. The inexorable doom of these governments based on the grey, is to foster
enmity between people and people. Even their alliances are but sacrifices to intenser antagonisms.
And the phases of the democratic sequence are simple and sure. Forced on by a relentless competition,
the tone of the outcries will become fiercer and fiercer; the occasions of excitement, the
perilous moments, the ingenuities of annoyance, more and more dramatic,--from the mere emptiness
and disorder of the general mind! Jealousies and anti-foreign enactments, tariff manipulations
and commercial embitterment, destructive, foolish, exasperating obstructions that benefit no
human being, will minister to this craving without completely allaying it. Nearer, and ever
nearer, the politicians of the coming times will force one another towards the verge, not because
they want to go over it, not because any one wants to go over it, but because they are, by
their very nature, compelled to go that way, because to go in any other direction is to break
up and lose power. And, consequently, the final development of the democratic system, so far
as intrinsic forces go, will be, not the rule of the boss, nor the rule of the trust, nor the
rule of the newspaper; no rule, indeed, but international rivalry, international competition,
international exasperation and hostility, and at last--irresistible and overwhelming--the definite
establishment of the rule of that most stern and educational of all masters--War.

At this point there opens a tempting path, and along it historical precedents, like a forest
of notice-boards, urge us to go. At the end of the vista poses the figure of Napoleon with
"Cæsarism" written beneath it. Disregarding certain alien considerations for a time, assuming
the free working out of democracy to its conclusion, we perceive that, in the case of our generalized
state, the party machine, together with the nation entrusted to it, must necessarily be forced
into passionate national war. But, having blundered into war, the party machine will have an
air of having accomplished its destiny. A party machine or a popular government is surely as
likely a thing to cause a big disorder of war and as unlikely a thing to conduct it, as the
wit of man, working solely to that end, could ever have devised. I have already pointed out
why we can never expect an elected government of the modern sort to be guided by any far-reaching
designs, it is constructed to get office and keep office, not to do anything in office, the
conditions of its survival are to keep appearances up and taxes down,[36] and the care and
management of army and navy is quite outside its possibilities. The military and naval professions
in our typical modern State will subsist very largely upon tradition, the ostensible government
will interfere with rather than direct them, and there will be no force in the entire scheme
to check the corrupting influence of a long peace, to insist upon adequate exercises for the
fighting organization or ensure an adequate adaptation to the new and perpetually changing
possibilities of untried apparatus. Incapable but confident and energetic persons, having political
influence, will have been permitted to tamper with the various arms of the service, the equipment
will be largely devised to create an impression of efficiency in times of peace in the minds
of the general voting public, and the really efficient soldiers will either have fretted themselves
out of the army or have been driven out as political non-effectives, troublesome, innovating
persons anxious to spend money upon "fads." So armed, the New Democracy will blunder into war,
and the opening stage of the next great war will be the catastrophic breakdown of the formal
armies, shame and disasters, and a disorder of conflict between more or less equally matched
masses of stupefied, scared, and infuriated people. Just how far the thing may rise from the
value of an alarming and edifying incident to a universal catastrophe, depends upon the special
nature of the conflict, but it does not alter the fact that any considerable war is bound to
be a bitter, appalling, highly educational and constitution-shaking experience for the modern
democratic state.

Now, foreseeing this possibility, it is easy to step into the trap of the Napoleonic precedent.
One hastens to foretell that either with the pressure of coming war, or in the hour of defeat,
there will arise the Man. He will be strong in action, epigrammatic in manner, personally handsome
and continually victorious. He will sweep aside parliaments and demagogues, carry the nation
to glory, reconstruct it as an empire, and hold it together by circulating his profile and
organizing further successes. He will--I gather this from chance lights upon contemporary anticipations--codify
everything, rejuvenate the papacy, or, at any rate, galvanize Christianity, organize learning
in meek intriguing academies of little men, and prescribe a wonderful educational system. The
grateful nations will once more deify a lucky and aggressive egotism.... And there the vision
loses breath.

Nothing of the sort is going to happen, or, at any rate, if it happens, it will happen as an
interlude, as no necessary part in the general progress of the human drama. The world is no
more to be recast by chance individuals than a city is to be lit by sky rockets. The purpose
of things emerges upon spacious issues, and the day of individual leaders is past. The analogies
and precedents that lead one to forecast the coming of military one-man-dominions, the coming
of such other parodies of Cæsar's career as that misapplied, and speedily futile chess champion,
Napoleon I. contrived, are false. They are false because they ignore two correlated things;
first, the steady development of a new and quite unprecedented educated class as a necessary
aspect of the expansion of science and mechanism, and secondly, the absolute revolution in
the art of war that science and mechanism are bringing about. This latter consideration the
next chapter will expand, but here, in the interests of this discussion, we may in general
terms anticipate its gist. War in the past has been a thing entirely different in its nature
from what war, with the apparatus of the future, will be--it has been showy, dramatic, emotional,
and restricted; war in the future will be none of these things. War in the past was a thing
of days and heroisms; battles and campaigns rested in the hand of the great commander, he stood
out against the sky, picturesquely on horseback, visibly controlling it all. War in the future
will be a question of preparation, of long years of foresight and disciplined imagination,
there will be no decisive victory, but a vast diffusion of conflict--it will depend less and
less on controlling personalities and driving emotions, and more and more upon the intelligence
and personal quality of a great number of skilled men. All this the next chapter will expand.
And either before or after, but, at any rate, in the shadow of war, it will become apparent,
perhaps even suddenly, that the whole apparatus of power in the country is in the hands of
a new class of intelligent and scientifically-educated men. They will probably, under the development
of warlike stresses, be discovered--they will discover themselves--almost surprisingly with
roads and railways, carts and cities, drains, food supply, electrical supply, and water supply,
and with guns and such implements of destruction and intimidation as men scarcely dream of
yet, gathered in their hands. And they will be discovered, too, with a growing common consciousness
of themselves as distinguished from the grey confusion, a common purpose and implication that
the fearless analysis of science is already bringing to light. They will find themselves with
bloodshed and horrible disasters ahead, and the material apparatus of control entirely within
their power. "Suppose, after all," they will say, "we ignore these very eloquent and showy
governing persons above, and this very confused and ineffectual multitude below. Suppose now
we put on the brakes and try something a little more stable and orderly. These people in possession
have, of course, all sorts of established rights and prescriptions; they have squared the law
to their purpose, and the constitution does not know us; they can get at the judges, they can
get at the newspapers, they can do all sorts of things except avoid a smash--but, for our part,
we have these really most ingenious and subtle guns. Suppose instead of our turning them and
our valuable selves in a fool's quarrel against the ingenious and subtle guns of other men
akin to ourselves, we use them in the cause of the higher sanity, and clear that jabbering
war tumult out of the streets."... There may be no dramatic moment for the expression of this
idea, no moment when the new Cromwellism and the new Ironsides will come visibly face to face
with talk and baubles, flags and patriotic dinner bells; but, with or without dramatic moments,
the idea will be expressed and acted upon. It will be made quite evident then, what is now
indeed only a pious opinion, namely, that wealth is, after all, no ultimate Power at all, but
only an influence among aimless, police-guarded men. So long as there is peace the class of
capable men may be mitigated and gagged and controlled, and the ostensible present order may
flourish still in the hands of that other class of men which deals with the appearances of
things. But as some supersaturated solution will crystallize out with the mere shaking of its
beaker, so must the new order of men come into visibly organized existence through the concussions
of war. The charlatans can escape everything except war, but to the cant and violence of nationality,
to the sustaining force of international hostility, they are ruthlessly compelled to cling,
and what is now their chief support must become at last their destruction. And so it is I infer
that, whether violently as a revolution or quietly and slowly, this grey confusion that is
Democracy must pass away inevitably by its own inherent conditions, as the twilight passes,
as the embryonic confusion of the cocoon creature passes, into the higher stage, into the higher
organism, the world-state of the coming years.

FOOTNOTES:

[33] The fulcrum, which is generally treated as being absolutely immovable, being the general
belief in the theory of democracy.

[34] In the United States, a vast rapidly developing country, with relatively much kinetic
wealth, this central influence is the financial support of the Boss, consisting for the most
part of active-minded, capable business organizers; in England, the land where irresponsible
realized wealth is at a maximum, a public-spirited section of the irresponsible, inspired by
the tradition of an aristocratic functional past, qualifies the financial influence with an
amateurish, indolent, and publicly unprofitable integrity. In Germany an aggressively functional
Court occupies the place and plays the part of a permanently dominant party machine.

[35] The nature of these modifications is an interesting side issue. There is every possibility
of papers becoming at last papers of world-wide circulation, so far as the language in which
they are printed permits, with editions that will follow the sun and change into to-morrow's
issue as they go, picking up literary criticism here, financial intelligence there, here to-morrow's
story, and there to-morrow's scandal, and, like some vast intellectual garden-roller, rolling
out local provincialism at every revolution. This, for papers in English, at any rate, is merely
a question of how long it will be before the price of the best writing (for journalistic purposes)
rises actually or relatively above the falling cost of long distance electrical type setting.
Each of the local editions of these world travelling papers, in addition to the identical matter
that will appear almost simultaneously everywhere, will no doubt have its special matter and
its special advertisements. Illustrations will be telegraphed just as well as matter, and probably
a much greater use will be made of sketch and diagram than at present. If the theory advanced
in this book that democracy is a transitory confusion be sound, there will not be one world
paper of this sort only--like Moses' serpent after its miraculous struggle--but several, and
as the non-provincial segregation of society goes on, these various great papers will take
on more and more decided specific characteristics, and lose more and more their local references.
They will come to have not only a distinctive type of matter, a distinctive method of thought
and manner of expression, but distinctive fundamental implications, and a distinctive class
of writer. This difference in character and tone renders the advent of any Napoleonic master
of the newspaper world vastly more improbable than it would otherwise be. These specializing
newspapers will, as they find their class, throw out many features that do not belong to that
class. It is highly probable that many will restrict the space devoted to news and sham news;
that forged and inflated stuff made in offices, that bulks out the foreign intelligence of
so many English papers, for example. At present every paper contains a little of everything,
inadequate sporting stuff, inadequate financial stuff, vague literary matter, voluminous reports
of political vapourings, because no newspaper is quite sure of the sort of readers it has--probably
no daily newspaper has yet a distinctive sort of reader.

Many people, with their minds inspired by the number of editions which evening papers pretend
to publish and do not, incline to believe that daily papers may presently give place to hourly
papers, each with the last news of the last sixty minutes photographically displayed. As a
matter of fact no human being wants that, and very few are so foolish as to think they do;
the only kind of news that any sort of people clamours for hot and hot is financial and betting
fluctuations, lottery lists and examination results; and the elaborated and cheapened telegraphic
and telephonic system of the coming days, with tapes (or phonograph to replace them) in every
post-office and nearly every private house, so far from expanding this department, will probably
sweep it out of the papers altogether. One will subscribe to a news agency which will wire
all the stuff one cares to have so violently fresh, into a phonographic recorder perhaps, in
some convenient corner. There the thing will be in every house, beside the barometer, to hear
or ignore. With the separation of that function what is left of the newspaper will revert to
one daily edition--daily, I think, because of the power of habit to make the newspaper the
specific business of some definite moments in the day; the breakfast hour, I suppose, or the
"up-to-town" journey with most Englishmen now. Quite possibly some one will discover some day
that there is now machinery for folding and fastening a paper into a form that will not inevitably
get into the butter, or lead to bitterness in a railway carriage. This pitch of development
reached, I incline to anticipate daily papers much more like the Spectator in form than these
present mainsails of our public life. They will probably not contain fiction at all, and poetry
only rarely, because no one but a partial imbecile wants these things in punctual daily doses,
and we are anticipating an escape from a period of partial imbecility. My own culture and turn
of mind, which is probably akin to that of a respectable mechanic of the year 2000, inclines
me towards a daily paper that will have in addition to its concentrated and absolutely trustworthy
daily news, full and luminous accounts of new inventions, new theories, and new departures
of all sorts (usually illustrated), witty and penetrating comments upon public affairs, criticisms
of all sorts of things, representations of newly produced works of art, and an ample amount
of ably written controversy upon everything under the sun. The correspondence columns, instead
of being an exercising place for bores and conspicuous people who are not mercenary, will be
the most ample, the most carefully collected, and the most highly paid of all departments in
this paper. Personal paragraphs will be relegated to some obscure and costly corner next to
the births, deaths, and marriages. This paper will have, of course, many pages of business
advertisements, and these will usually be well worth looking through, for the more intelligent
editors of the days to come will edit this department just like any other, and classify their
advertisements in a descending scale of freshness and interest that will also be an ascending
scale of price. The advertiser who wants to be an indecent bore, and vociferate for the ten
millionth time some flatulent falsehood about a pill, for instance, will pay at nuisance rates.
Probably many papers will refuse to print nasty and distressful advertisements about people's
insides at all. The entire paper will be as free from either greyness or offensive stupidity
in its advertisement columns as the shop windows in Bond Street to-day, and for much the same
reason,--because the people who go that way do not want that sort of thing.

It has been supposed that, since the real income of the newspaper is derived from advertisements,
large advertisers will combine in the future to own papers confined to the advertisements of
their specific wares. Some such monopoly is already attempted; several publishing firms own
or partially own a number of provincial papers, which they adorn with strange "Book Chat" columns
conspicuously deficient in their information; and a well-known cycle tyre firm supplies "Cycling"
columns that are mere pedestals for the Head-of-King-Charles make of tyre. Many quack firms
publish and give away annual almanacks replete with economical illustrations, offensive details,
and bad jokes. But I venture to think, in spite of such phenomena, that these suggestions and
attempts are made with a certain disregard of the essential conditions of sound advertisement.
Sound advertisement consists in perpetual alertness and newness, in appearance in new places
and in new aspects, in the constant access to fresh minds. The devotion of a newspaper to the
interest of one particular make of a commodity or group of commodities will inevitably rob
its advertisement department of most of its interest for the habitual readers of the paper.
That is to say, the newspaper will fail in what is one of the chief attractions of a good newspaper.
Moreover, such a devotion will react upon all the other matter in the paper, because the editor
will need to be constantly alert to exclude seditious reflections upon the Health-Extract-of-Horse-Flesh
or Saved-by-Boiling-Jam. His sense of this relation will taint his self-respect and make him
a less capable editor than a man whose sole affair is to keep his paper interesting. To these
more interesting rival papers the excluded competitor will be driven, and the reader will follow
in his wake. There is little more wisdom in the proprietor of an article in popular demand
buying or creating a newspaper to contain all his advertisements than in his buying a coal
pit for the same purpose. Such a privacy of advertisement will never work, I think, on a large
scale; it is probably at or near its maximum development now, and this anticipation of the
advertiser-owned paper, like that of hourly papers, and that wonderfully powerful cosmic newspaper
syndicate, is simply another instance of prophesying based only on a present trend, an expansion
of the obvious, instead of an analysis of determining forces.

[36] One striking illustration of the distinctive possibilities of democratic government came
to light during the last term of office of the present patriotic British Government. As a demonstration
of patriotism large sums of money were voted annually for the purpose of building warships,
and the patriotic common man paid the taxes gladly with a dream of irresistible naval predominance
to sweeten the payment. But the money was not spent on warships; only a portion of it was spent,
and the rest remained to make a surplus and warm the heart of the common man in his tax-paying
capacity. This artful dodge was repeated for several years; the artful dodger is now a peer,
no doubt abjectly respected, and nobody in the most patriotic party so far evolved is a bit
the worse for it. In the organizing expedients of all popular governments, as in the prospectuses
of unsound companies, the disposition is to exaggerate the nominal capital at the expense of
the working efficiency. Democratic armies and navies are always short, and probably will always
be short, of ammunition, paint, training and reserve stores; battalions and ships, since they
count as units, are over-numerous and go short-handed, and democratic army reform almost invariably
works out to some device for multiplying units by fission, and counting men three times instead
of twice in some ingenious and plausible way. And this must be so, because the sort of men
who come inevitably to power under democratic conditions are men trained by all the conditions
of their lives to so set appearances before realities as at last to become utterly incapable
of realities.

VI

WAR

In shaping anticipations of the future of war there arises a certain difficulty about the point
of departure. One may either begin upon such broad issues as the preceding forecasts have opened,
and having determined now something of the nature of the coming State and the force of its
warlike inclination, proceed to speculate how this vast ill-organized fourfold organism will
fight; or one may set all that matter aside for a space, and having regard chiefly to the continually
more potent appliances physical science offers the soldier, we may try to develop a general
impression of theoretically thorough war, go from that to the nature of the State most likely
to be superlatively efficient in such warfare, and so arrive at the conditions of survival
under which these present governments of confusion will struggle one against the other. The
latter course will be taken here. We will deal first of all with war conducted for its own
sake, with a model army, as efficient as an imaginative training can make it, and with a model
organization for warfare of the State behind it, and then the experience of the confused modern
social organism as it is impelled, in an uncongenial metamorphosis, towards this imperative
and finally unavoidable efficient state, will come most easily within the scope of one's imagination.

The great change that is working itself out in warfare is the same change that is working itself
out in the substance of the social fabric. The essential change in the social fabric, as we
have analyzed it, is the progressive supersession of the old broad labour base by elaborately
organized mechanism, and the obsolescence of the once valid and necessary distinction of gentle
and simple. In warfare, as I have already indicated, this takes the form of the progressive
supersession of the horse and the private soldier--which were the living and sole engines of
the old time--by machines, and the obliteration of the old distinction between leaders, who
pranced in a conspicuously dangerous and encouraging way into the picturesque incidents of
battle, and the led, who cheered and charged and filled the ditches and were slaughtered in
a wholesale dramatic manner. The old war was a matter of long dreary marches, great hardships
of campaigning, but also of heroic conclusive moments. Long periods of campings--almost always
with an outbreak of pestilence--of marchings and retreats, much crude business of feeding and
forage, culminated at last, with an effect of infinite relief, in an hour or so of "battle."
The battle was always a very intimate tumultuous affair, the men were flung at one another
in vast excited masses, in living fighting machines as it were, spears or bayonets flashed,
one side or the other ceased to prolong the climax, and the thing was over. The beaten force
crumpled as a whole, and the victors as a whole pressed upon it. Cavalry with slashing sabres
marked the crowning point of victory. In the later stages of the old warfare musketry volleys
were added to the physical impact of the contending regiments, and at last cannon, as a quite
accessory method of breaking these masses of men. So you "gave battle" to and defeated your
enemy's forces wherever encountered, and when you reached your objective in his capital the
war was done.... The new war will probably have none of these features of the old system of
fighting.

The revolution that is in progress from the old war to a new war, different in its entire nature
from the old, is marked primarily by the steady progress in range and efficiency of the rifle
and of the field-gun--and more particularly of the rifle. The rifle develops persistently from
a clumsy implement, that any clown may learn to use in half a day, towards a very intricate
mechanism, easily put out of order and easily misused, but of the most extraordinary possibilities
in the hands of men of courage, character, and high intelligence. Its precision at long range
has made the business of its care, loading and aim subsidiary to the far more intricate matter
of its use in relation to the contour of the ground within its reach. Even its elaboration
as an instrument is probably still incomplete. One can conceive it provided in the future with
cross-thread telescopic sights, the focussing of which, corrected by some ingenious use of
hygroscopic material, might even find the range, and so enable it to be used with assurance
up to a mile or more. It will probably also take on some of the characters of the machine-gun.
It will be used either for single shots or to quiver and send a spray of almost simultaneous
bullets out of a magazine evenly and certainly, over any small area the rifleman thinks advisable.
It will probably be portable by one man, but there is no reason really, except the bayonet
tradition, the demands of which may be met in other ways, why it should be the instrument of
one sole man. It will, just as probably, be slung with its ammunition and equipment upon bicycle
wheels, and be the common care of two or more associated soldiers. Equipped with such a weapon,
a single couple of marksmen even, by reason of smokeless powder and carefully chosen cover,
might make themselves practically invisible, and capable of surprising, stopping, and destroying
a visible enemy in quite considerable numbers who blundered within a mile of them. And a series
of such groups of marksmen so arranged as to cover the arrival of reliefs, provisions, and
fresh ammunition from the rear, might hold out against any visible attack for an indefinite
period, unless the ground they occupied was searched very ably and subtly by some sort of gun
having a range in excess of their rifle fire. If the ground they occupied were to be properly
tunnelled and trenched, even that might not avail, and there would be nothing for it but to
attack them by an advance under cover either of the night or of darkness caused by smoke-shells,
or by the burning of cover about their position. Even then they might be deadly with magazine
fire at close quarters. Save for their liability to such attacks, a few hundreds of such men
could hold positions of a quite vast extent, and a few thousand might hold a frontier. Assuredly
a mere handful of such men could stop the most multitudinous attack or cover the most disorderly
retreat in the world, and even when some ingenious, daring, and lucky night assault had at
last ejected them from a position, dawn would simply restore to them the prospect of reconstituting
in new positions their enormous advantage of defence.

The only really effective and final defeat such an attenuated force of marksmen could sustain,
would be from the slow and circumspect advance upon it of a similar force of superior marksmen,
creeping forward under cover of night or of smoke-shells and fire, digging pits during the
snatches of cessation obtained in this way, and so coming nearer and nearer and getting a completer
and completer mastery of the defender's ground until the approach of the defender's reliefs,
food, and fresh ammunition ceased to be possible. Thereupon there would be nothing for it but
either surrender or a bolt in the night to positions in the rear, a bolt that might be hotly
followed if it were deferred too late.

Probably between contiguous nations that have mastered the art of war, instead of the pouring
clouds of cavalry of the old dispensation,[37] this will be the opening phase of the struggle,
a vast duel all along the frontier between groups of skilled marksmen, continually being relieved
and refreshed from the rear. For a time quite possibly there will be no definite army here
or there, there will be no controllable battle, there will be no Great General in the field
at all. But somewhere far in the rear the central organizer will sit at the telephonic centre
of his vast front, and he will strengthen here and feed there and watch, watch perpetually
the pressure, the incessant remorseless pressure that is seeking to wear down his countervailing
thrust. Behind the thin firing line that is actually engaged, the country for many miles will
be rapidly cleared and devoted to the business of war, big machines will be at work making
second, third, and fourth lines of trenches that may be needed if presently the firing line
is forced back, spreading out transverse paths for the swift lateral movement of the cyclists
who will be in perpetual alertness to relieve sudden local pressures, and all along those great
motor roads our first "Anticipations" sketched, there will be a vast and rapid shifting to
and fro of big and very long range guns. These guns will probably be fought with the help of
balloons. The latter will hang above the firing line all along the front, incessantly ascending
and withdrawn; they will be continually determining the distribution of the antagonist's forces,
directing the fire of continually shifting great guns upon the apparatus and supports in the
rear of his fighting line, forecasting his night plans and seeking some tactical or strategic
weakness in that sinewy line of battle.

It will be evident that such warfare as this inevitable precision of gun and rifle forces upon
humanity, will become less and less dramatic as a whole, more and more as a whole a monstrous
thrust and pressure of people against people. No dramatic little general spouting his troops
into the proper hysterics for charging, no prancing merely brave officers, no reckless gallantry
or invincible stubbornness of men will suffice. For the commander-in-chief on a picturesque
horse sentimentally watching his "boys" march past to death or glory in battalions, there will
have to be a loyal staff of men, working simply, earnestly, and subtly to keep the front tight,
and at the front, every little isolated company of men will have to be a council of war, a
little conspiracy under the able man its captain, as keen and individual as a football team,
conspiring against the scarcely seen company of the foe over yonder. The battalion commander
will be replaced in effect by the organizer of the balloons and guns by which his few hundreds
of splendid individuals will be guided and reinforced. In the place of hundreds of thousands
of more or less drunken and untrained young men marching into battle--muddle-headed, sentimental,
dangerous and futile hobbledehoys--there will be thousands of sober men braced up to their
highest possibilities, intensely doing their best; in the place of charging battalions, shattering
impacts of squadrons and wide harvest-fields of death, there will be hundreds of little rifle
battles fought up to the hilt, gallant dashes here, night surprises there, the sudden sinister
faint gleam of nocturnal bayonets, brilliant guesses that will drop catastrophic shell and
death over hills and forests suddenly into carelessly exposed masses of men. For eight miles
on either side of the firing lines--whose fire will probably never altogether die away while
the war lasts--men will live and eat and sleep under the imminence of unanticipated death....
Such will be the opening phase of the war that is speedily to come.

And behind the thin firing line on either side a vast multitude of people will be at work;
indeed, the whole mass of the efficients in the State will have to be at work, and most of
them will be simply at the same work or similar work to that done in peace time--only now as
combatants upon the lines of communication. The organized staffs of the big road managements,
now become a part of the military scheme, will be deporting women and children and feeble people
and bringing up supplies and supports; the doctors will be dropping from their civil duties
into pre-appointed official places, directing the feeding and treatment of the shifting masses
of people and guarding the valuable manhood of the fighting apparatus most sedulously from
disease;[38] the engineers will be entrenching and bringing up a vast variety of complicated
and ingenious apparatus designed to surprise and inconvenience the enemy in novel ways; the
dealers in food and clothing, the manufacturers of all sorts of necessary stuff, will be converted
by the mere declaration of war into public servants; a practical realization of socialistic
conceptions will quite inevitably be forced upon the fighting State. The State that has not
incorporated with its fighting organization all its able-bodied manhood and all its material
substance, its roads, vehicles, engines, foundries, and all its resources of food and clothing;
the State which at the outbreak of war has to bargain with railway and shipping companies,
replace experienced station-masters by inexperienced officers, and haggle against alien interests
for every sort of supply, will be at an overwhelming disadvantage against a State which has
emerged from the social confusion of the present time, got rid of every vestige of our present
distinction between official and governed, and organized every element in its being.

I imagine that in this ideal war as compared with the war of to-day, there will be a very considerable
restriction of the rights of the non-combatant. A large part of existing International Law
involves a curious implication, a distinction between the belligerent government and its accredited
agents in warfare and the general body of its subjects. There is a disposition to treat the
belligerent government, in spite of the democratic status of many States, as not fully representing
its people, to establish a sort of world-citizenship in the common mass outside the official
and military class. Protection of the non-combatant and his property comes at last--in theory
at least--within a measurable distance of notice boards: "Combatants are requested to keep
off the grass." This disposition I ascribe to a recognition of that obsolescence and inadequacy
of the formal organization of States, which has already been discussed in this book. It was
a disposition that was strongest perhaps in the earliest decades of the nineteenth century,
and stronger now than, in the steady and irresistible course of strenuous and universal military
preparation, it is likely to be in the future. In our imaginary twentieth century State, organized
primarily for war, this tendency to differentiate a non-combatant mass in the fighting State
will certainly not be respected, the State will be organized as a whole to fight as a whole,
it will have triumphantly asserted the universal duty of its citizens. The military force will
be a much ampler organization than the "army" of to-day, it will be not simply the fists but
the body and brain of the land. The whole apparatus, the whole staff engaged in internal communication,
for example, may conceivably not be State property and a State service, but if it is not it
will assuredly be as a whole organized as a volunteer force, that may instantly become a part
of the machinery of defence or aggression at the outbreak of war.[39] The men may very conceivably
not have a uniform, for military uniforms are simply one aspect of this curious and transitory
phase of restriction, but they will have their orders and their universal plan. As the bells
ring and the recording telephones click into every house the news that war has come, there
will be no running to and fro upon the public ways, no bawling upon the moving platforms of
the central urban nuclei, no crowds of silly useless able-bodied people gaping at inflammatory
transparencies outside the offices of sensational papers because the egregious idiots in control
of affairs have found them no better employment. Every man will be soberly and intelligently
setting about the particular thing he has to do--even the rich shareholding sort of person,
the hereditary mortgager of society, will be given something to do, and if he has learnt nothing
else he will serve to tie up parcels of ammunition or pack army sausage. Very probably the
best of such people and of the speculative class will have qualified as cyclist marksmen for
the front, some of them may even have devoted the leisure of peace to military studies and
may be prepared with novel weapons. Recruiting among the working classes--or, more properly
speaking, among the People of the Abyss--will have dwindled to the vanishing point; people
who are no good for peace purposes are not likely to be any good in such a grave and complicated
business as modern war. The spontaneous traffic of the roads in peace, will fall now into two
streams, one of women and children coming quietly and comfortably out of danger, the other
of men and material going up to the front. There will be no panics, no hardships, because everything
will have been amply pre-arranged--we are dealing with an ideal State. Quietly and tremendously
that State will have gripped its adversary and tightened its muscles--that is all.

Now the strategy of this new sort of war in its opening phase will consist mainly in very rapid
movements of guns and men behind that thin screen of marksmen, in order to deal suddenly and
unexpectedly some forcible blow, to snatch at some position into which guns and men may be
thrust to outflank and turn the advantage of the ground against some portion of the enemy's
line. The game will be largely to crowd and crumple that line, to stretch it over an arc to
the breaking point, to secure a position from which to shell and destroy its supports and provisions,
and to capture or destroy its guns and apparatus, and so tear it away from some town or arsenal
it has covered. And a factor of primary importance in this warfare, because of the importance
of seeing the board, a factor which will be enormously stimulated to develop in the future,
will be the aerial factor. Already we have seen the captive balloon as an incidental accessory
of considerable importance even in the wild country warfare of South Africa. In the warfare
that will go on in the highly-organized European States of the opening century, the special
military balloon used in conjunction with guns, conceivably of small calibre but of enormous
length and range, will play a part of quite primary importance. These guns will be carried
on vast mechanical carriages, possibly with wheels of such a size as will enable them to traverse
almost all sorts of ground.[40] The aeronauts, provided with large scale maps of the hostile
country, will mark down to the gunners below the precise point upon which to direct their fire,
and over hill and dale the shell will fly--ten miles it may be--to its billet, camp, massing
night attack, or advancing gun.

Great multitudes of balloons will be the Argus eyes of the entire military organism, stalked
eyes with a telephonic nerve in each stalk, and at night they will sweep the country with search-lights
and come soaring before the wind with hanging flares. Certainly they will be steerable. Moreover,
when the wind admits, there will be freely-moving steerable balloons wagging little flags to
their friends below. And so far as the resources of the men on the ground go, the balloons
will be almost invulnerable. The mere perforation of balloons with shot does them little harm,
and the possibility of hitting a balloon that is drifting about at a practically unascertainable
distance and height so precisely as to blow it to pieces with a timed shell, and to do this
in the little time before it is able to give simple and precise instructions as to your range
and position to the unseen gunners it directs, is certainly one of the most difficult and trying
undertakings for an artilleryman that one can well imagine. I am inclined to think that the
many considerations against a successful attack on balloons from the ground, will enormously
stimulate enterprise and invention in the direction of dirigible aerial devices that can fight.
Few people, I fancy, who know the work of Langley, Lilienthal, Pilcher, Maxim, and Chanute,
but will be inclined to believe that long before the year A.D. 2000, and very probably before
1950, a successful aeroplane will have soared and come home safe and sound. Directly that is
accomplished the new invention will be most assuredly applied to war.

The nature of the things that will ultimately fight in the sky is a matter for curious speculation.
We begin with the captive balloon. Against that the navigable balloon will presently operate.
I am inclined to think the practicable navigable balloon will be first attained by the use
of a device already employed by Nature in the swimming-bladder of fishes. This is a closed
gas-bag that can be contracted or expanded. If a gas-bag of thin, strong, practically impervious
substance could be enclosed in a net of closely interlaced fibres (interlaced, for example,
on the pattern of the muscles of the bladder in mammals), the ends of these fibres might be
wound and unwound, and the effect of contractility attained. A row of such contractile balloons,
hung over a long car which was horizontally expanded into wings, would not only allow that
car to rise and fall at will, but if the balloon at one end were contracted and that at the
other end expanded, and the intermediate ones allowed to assume intermediate conditions, the
former end would drop, the expanded wings would be brought into a slanting condition over a
smaller area of supporting air, and the whole apparatus would tend to glide downwards in that
direction. The projection of a small vertical plane upon either side would make the gliding
mass rotate in a descending spiral, and so we have all the elements of a controllable flight.
Such an affair would be difficult to overset. It would be able to beat up even in a fair wind,
and then it would be able to contract its bladders and fall down a long slant in any direction.
From some such crude beginning a form like a soaring, elongated, flat-brimmed hat might grow,
and the possibilities of adding an engine-driven screw are obvious enough.

It is difficult to see how such a contrivance could carry guns of any calibre unless they fired
from the rear in the line of flight. The problem of recoil becomes a very difficult one in
aerial tactics. It would probably have at most a small machine-gun or so, which might fire
an explosive shell at the balloons of the enemy, or kill their aeronauts with distributed bullets.
The thing would be a sort of air-shark, and one may even venture to picture something of the
struggle the deadlocked marksmen of 1950, lying warily in their rifle-pits, will see.

One conceives them at first, each little hole with its watchful, well-equipped couple of assassins,
turning up their eyes in expectation. The wind is with our enemy, and his captive balloons
have been disagreeably overhead all through the hot morning. His big guns have suddenly become
nervously active. Then, a little murmur along the pits and trenches, and from somewhere over
behind us, this air-shark drives up the sky. The enemy's balloons splutter a little, retract,
and go rushing down, and we send a spray of bullets as they drop. Then against our aerostat,
and with the wind driving them clean overhead of us, come the antagonistic flying-machines.
I incline to imagine there will be a steel prow with a cutting edge at either end of the sort
of aerostat I foresee, and conceivably this aerial ram will be the most important weapon of
the affair. When operating against balloons, such a fighting-machine will rush up the air as
swiftly as possible, and then, with a rapid contraction of its bladders, fling itself like
a knife at the sinking war-balloon of the foe. Down, down, down, through a vast alert tension
of flight, down it will swoop, and, if its stoop is successful, slash explosively at last through
a suffocating moment. Rifles will crack, ropes tear and snap; there will be a rending and shouting,
a great thud of liberated gas, and perhaps a flare. Quite certainly those flying machines will
carry folded parachutes, and the last phase of many a struggle will be the desperate leap of
the aeronauts with these in hand, to snatch one last chance of life out of a mass of crumpling,
fallen wreckage.

But in such a fight between flying-machine and flying-machine as we are trying to picture,
it will be a fight of hawks, complicated by bullets and little shells. They will rush up and
up to get the pitch of one another, until the aeronauts sob and sicken in the rarefied air,
and the blood comes to eyes and nails. The marksmen below will strain at last, eyes under hands,
to see the circling battle that dwindles in the zenith. Then, perhaps, a wild adventurous dropping
of one close beneath the other, an attempt to stoop, the sudden splutter of guns, a tilting
up or down, a disengagement. What will have happened? One combatant, perhaps, will heel lamely
earthward, dropping, dropping, with half its bladders burst or shot away, the other circles
down in pursuit.... "What are they doing?" Our marksmen will snatch at their field-glasses,
tremulously anxious, "Is that a white flag or no?... If they drop now we have 'em!"

But the duel will be the rarer thing. In any affair of ramming there is an enormous advantage
for the side that can contrive, anywhere in the field of action, to set two vessels at one.
The mere ascent of one flying-ram from one side will assuredly slip the leashes of two on the
other, until the manoeuvring squadrons may be as thick as starlings in October. They will wheel
and mount, they will spread and close, there will be elaborate manoeuvres for the advantage
of the wind, there will be sudden drops to the shelter of entrenched guns. The actual impact
of battle will be an affair of moments. They will be awful moments, but not more terrible,
not more exacting of manhood than the moments that will come to men when there is--and it has
not as yet happened on this earth--equal fighting between properly manned and equipped ironclads
at sea. (And the well-bred young gentlemen of means who are privileged to officer the British
Army nowadays will be no more good at this sort of thing than they are at controversial theology
or electrical engineering or anything else that demands a well-exercised brain.)...

Once the command of the air is obtained by one of the contending armies, the war must become
a conflict between a seeing host and one that is blind. The victor in that aerial struggle
will tower with pitilessly watchful eyes over his adversary, will concentrate his guns and
all his strength unobserved, will mark all his adversary's roads and communications, and sweep
them with sudden incredible disasters of shot and shell. The moral effect of this predominance
will be enormous. All over the losing country, not simply at his frontier but everywhere, the
victor will soar. Everybody everywhere will be perpetually and constantly looking up, with
a sense of loss and insecurity, with a vague stress of painful anticipations. By day the victor's
aeroplanes will sweep down upon the apparatus of all sorts in the adversary's rear, and will
drop explosives and incendiary matters upon them,[41] so that no apparatus or camp or shelter
will any longer be safe. At night his high floating search-lights will go to and fro and discover
and check every desperate attempt to relieve or feed the exhausted marksmen of the fighting
line. The phase of tension will pass, that weakening opposition will give, and the war from
a state of mutual pressure and petty combat will develop into the collapse of the defensive
lines. A general advance will occur under the aerial van, ironclad road fighting-machines may
perhaps play a considerable part in this, and the enemy's line of marksmen will be driven back
or starved into surrender, or broken up and hunted down. As the superiority of the attack becomes
week by week more and more evident, its assaults will become more dashing and far-reaching.
Under the moonlight and the watching balloons there will be swift noiseless rushes of cycles,
precipitate dismounts, and the never-to-be-quite-abandoned bayonet will play its part. And
now men on the losing side will thank God for the reprieve of a pitiless wind, for lightning,
thunder, and rain, for any elemental disorder that will for a moment lift the descending scale!
Then, under banks of fog and cloud, the victorious advance will pause and grow peeringly watchful
and nervous, and mud-stained desperate men will go splashing forward into an elemental blackness,
rain or snow like a benediction on their faces, blessing the primordial savagery of nature
that can still set aside the wisest devices of men, and give the unthrifty one last desperate
chance to get their own again or die.

Such adventures may rescue pride and honour, may cause momentary dismay in the victor and palliate
disaster, but they will not turn back the advance of the victors, or twist inferiority into
victory. Presently the advance will resume. With that advance the phase of indecisive contest
will have ended, and the second phase of the new war, the business of forcing submission, will
begin. This should be more easy in the future even than it has proved in the past, in spite
of the fact that central governments are now elusive, and small bodies of rifle-armed guerillas
far more formidable than ever before. It will probably be brought about in a civilized country
by the seizure of the vital apparatus of the urban regions--the water supply, the generating
stations for electricity (which will supply all the heat and warmth of the land), and the chief
ways used in food distribution. Through these expedients, even while the formal war is still
in progress, an irresistible pressure upon a local population will be possible, and it will
be easy to subjugate or to create afresh local authorities, who will secure the invader from
any danger of a guerilla warfare upon his rear. Through that sort of an expedient an even very
obdurate loser will be got down to submission, area by area. With the destruction of its military
apparatus and the prospective loss of its water and food supply, however, the defeated civilized
State will probably be willing to seek terms as a whole, and bring the war to a formal close.

In cases where, instead of contiguous frontiers, the combatants are separated by the sea, the
aerial struggle will probably be preceded or accompanied by a struggle for the command of the
sea. Of this warfare there have been many forecasts. In this, as in all the warfare of the
coming time, imaginative foresight, a perpetual alteration of tactics, a perpetual production
of unanticipated devices, will count enormously. Other things being equal, victory will rest
with the force mentally most active. What type of ship may chance to be prevalent when the
great naval war comes is hard guessing, but I incline to think that the naval architects of
the ablest peoples will concentrate more and more upon speed and upon range and penetration,
and, above all, upon precision of fire. I seem to see a light type of ironclad, armoured thickly
only over its engines and magazines, murderously equipped, and with a ram--as alert and deadly
as a striking snake. In the battles of the open she will have little to fear from the slow
fumbling treacheries of the submarine, she will take as little heed of the chance of a torpedo
as a barefooted man in battle does of the chance of a fallen dagger in his path. Unless I know
nothing of my own blood, the English and Americans will prefer to catch their enemies in ugly
weather or at night, and then they will fight to ram. The struggle on the high seas between
any two naval powers (except, perhaps, the English and American, who have both quite unparalleled
opportunities for coaling) will not last more than a week or so. One or other force will be
destroyed at sea, driven into its ports and blockaded there, or cut off from its supply of
coal (or other force-generator), and hunted down to fight or surrender. An inferior fleet that
tries to keep elusively at sea will always find a superior fleet between itself and coal, and
will either have to fight at once or be shot into surrender as it lies helpless on the water.
Some commerce-destroying enterprise on the part of the loser may go on, but I think the possibilities
of that sort of thing are greatly exaggerated. The world grows smaller and smaller, the telegraph
and telephone go everywhere, wireless telegraphy opens wider and wider possibilities to the
imagination, and how the commerce-destroyer is to go on for long without being marked down,
headed off, cut off from coal, and forced to fight or surrender, I do not see. The commerce-destroyer
will have a very short run; it will have to be an exceptionally good and costly ship in the
first place, it will be finally sunk or captured, and altogether I do not see how that sort
of thing will pay when once the command of the sea is assured. A few weeks will carry the effective
frontier of the stronger power up to the coast-line of the weaker, and permit of the secure
resumption of the over-sea trade of the former. And then will open a second phase of naval
warfare, in which the submarine may play a larger part.

I must confess that my imagination, in spite even of spurring, refuses to see any sort of submarine
doing anything but suffocate its crew and founder at sea. It must involve physical inconvenience
of the most demoralizing sort simply to be in one for any length of time. A first-rate man
who has been breathing carbonic acid and oil vapour under a pressure of four atmospheres becomes
presently a second-rate man. Imagine yourself in a submarine that has ventured a few miles
out of port, imagine that you have headache and nausea, and that some ship of the Cobra type
is flashing itself and its search-lights about whenever you come up to the surface, and promptly
tearing down on your descending bubbles with a ram, trailing perhaps a tail of grapples or
a net as well. Even if you get their boat, these nicely aerated men you are fighting know they
have a four to one chance of living; while for your submarine to be "got" is certain death.
You may, of course, throw out a torpedo or so, with as much chance of hitting vitally as you
would have if you were blindfolded, turned round three times, and told to fire revolver-shots
at a charging elephant. The possibility of sweeping for a submarine with a seine would be vividly
present in the minds of a submarine crew. If you are near shore you will probably be near rocks--an
unpleasant complication in a hurried dive. There would, probably, very soon be boats out too,
seeking with a machine-gun or pompom for a chance at your occasionally emergent conning-tower.
In no way can a submarine be more than purblind, it will be, in fact, practically blind. Given
a derelict ironclad on a still night within sight of land, a carefully handled submarine might
succeed in groping its way to it and destroying it; but then it would be much better to attack
such a vessel and capture it boldly with a few desperate men on a tug. At the utmost the submarine
will be used in narrow waters, in rivers, or to fluster or destroy ships in harbour or with
poor-spirited crews--that is to say, it will simply be an added power in the hands of the nation
that is predominant at sea. And, even then, it can be merely destructive, while a sane and
high-spirited fighter will always be dissatisfied if, with an indisputable superiority of force,
he fails to take.[42]

No; the naval warfare of the future is for light, swift ships, almost recklessly not defensive
and with splendid guns and gunners. They will hit hard and ram, and warfare which is taking
to cover on land will abandon it at sea. And the captain, and the engineer, and the gunner
will have to be all of the same sort of men: capable, headlong men, with brains and no ascertainable
social position. They will differ from the officers of the British Navy in the fact that the
whole male sex of the nation will have been ransacked to get them. The incredible stupidity
that closes all but a menial position in the British Navy to the sons of those who cannot afford
to pay a hundred a year for them for some years, necessarily brings the individual quality
of the British naval officer below the highest possible, quite apart from the deficiencies
that must exist on account of the badness of secondary education in England. The British naval
officer and engineer are not made the best of, good as they are, indisputably they might be
infinitely better both in quality and training. The smaller German navy, probably, has an ampler
pick of men relatively, is far better educated, less confident, and more strenuous. But the
abstract navy I am here writing of will be superior to either of these, and like the American,
in the absence of any distinction between officers and engineers. The officer will be an engineer.

The military advantages of the command of the sea will probably be greater in the future than
they have been in the past. A fleet with aerial supports would be able to descend upon any
portion of the adversary's coast it chose, and to dominate the country inland for several miles
with its gun-fire. All the enemy's sea-coast towns would be at its mercy. It would be able
to effect landing and send raids of cyclist-marksmen inland, whenever a weak point was discovered.
Landings will be enormously easier than they have ever been before. Once a wedge of marksmen
has been driven inland they would have all the military advantages of the defence when it came
to eject them. They might, for example, encircle and block some fortified post, and force costly
and disastrous attempts to relieve it. The defensive country would stand at bay, tethered against
any effective counter-blow, keeping guns, supplies, and men in perpetual and distressing movement
to and fro along its sea-frontiers. Its soldiers would get uncertain rest, irregular feeding,
unhealthy conditions of all sorts in hastily made camps. The attacking fleet would divide and
re-unite, break up and vanish, amazingly reappear. The longer the defender's coast the more
wretched his lot. Never before in the world's history was the command of the sea worth what
it is now. But the command of the sea is, after all, like military predominance on land, to
be insured only by superiority of equipment in the hands of a certain type of man, a type of
man that it becomes more and more impossible to improvise, that a country must live for through
many years, and that no country on earth at present can be said to be doing its best possible
to make.

All this elaboration of warfare lengthens the scale between theoretical efficiency and absolute
unpreparedness. There was a time when any tribe that had men and spears was ready for war,
and any tribe that had some cunning or emotion at command might hope to discount any little
disparity in numbers between itself and its neighbour. Luck and stubbornness and the incalculable
counted for much; it was half the battle not to know you were beaten, and it is so still. Even
to-day, a great nation, it seems, may still make its army the plaything of its gentlefolk,
abandon important military appointments to feminine intrigue, and trust cheerfully to the homesickness
and essential modesty of its influential people, and the simpler patriotism of its colonial
dependencies when it comes at last to the bloody and wearisome business of "muddling through."
But these days of the happy-go-lucky optimist are near their end. War is being drawn into the
field of the exact sciences. Every additional weapon, every new complication of the art of
war, intensifies the need of deliberate preparation, and darkens the outlook of a nation of
amateurs. Warfare in the future, on sea or land alike, will be much more one-sided than it
has ever been in the past, much more of a foregone conclusion. Save for national lunacy, it
will be brought about by the side that will win, and because that side knows that it will win.
More and more it will have the quality of surprise, of pitiless revelation. Instead of the
seesaw, the bickering interchange of battles of the old time, will come swiftly and amazingly
blow, and blow, and blow, no pause, no time for recovery, disasters cumulative and irreparable.

The fight will never be in practice between equal sides, never be that theoretical deadlock
we have sketched, but a fight between the more efficient and the less efficient, between the
more inventive and the more traditional. While the victors, disciplined and grimly intent,
full of the sombre yet glorious delight of a grave thing well done, will, without shouting
or confusion, be fighting like one great national body, the losers will be taking that pitiless
exposure of helplessness in such a manner as their natural culture and character may determine.
War for the losing side will be an unspeakable pitiable business. There will be first of all
the coming of the war, the wave of excitement, the belligerent shouting of the unemployed inefficients,
the flag-waving, the secret doubts, the eagerness for hopeful news, the impatience of the warning
voice. I seem to see, almost as if he were symbolic, the grey old general--the general who
learnt his art of war away in the vanished nineteenth century, the altogether too elderly general
with his epaulettes and decorations, his uniform that has still its historical value, his spurs
and his sword--riding along on his obsolete horse, by the side of his doomed column. Above
all things he is a gentleman. And the column looks at him lovingly with its countless boys'
faces, and the boys' eyes are infinitely trustful, for he has won battles in the old time.
They will believe in him to the end. They have been brought up in their schools to believe
in him and his class, their mothers have mingled respect for the gentlefolk with the simple
doctrines of their faith, their first lesson on entering the army was the salute. The "smart"
helmets His Majesty, or some such unqualified person, chose for them, lie hotly on their young
brows, and over their shoulders slope their obsolete, carelessly-sighted guns. Tramp, tramp,
they march, doing what they have been told to do, incapable of doing anything they have not
been told to do, trustful and pitiful, marching to wounds and disease, hunger, hardship, and
death. They know nothing of what they are going to meet, nothing of what they will have to
do; Religion and the Ratepayer and the Rights of the Parent working through the instrumentality
of the Best Club in the World have kept their souls and minds, if not untainted, at least only
harmlessly veneered, with the thinnest sham of training or knowledge. Tramp, tramp, they go,
boys who will never be men, rejoicing patriotically in the nation that has thus sent them forth,
badly armed, badly clothed, badly led, to be killed in some avoidable quarrel by men unseen.
And beside them, an absolute stranger to them, a stranger even in habits of speech and thought,
and at any rate to be shot with them fairly and squarely, marches the subaltern--the son of
the school-burking, shareholding class--a slightly taller sort of boy, as ill-taught as they
are in all that concerns the realities of life, ignorant of how to get food, how to get water,
how to keep fever down and strength up, ignorant of his practical equality with the men beside
him, carefully trained under a clerical headmaster to use a crib, play cricket rather nicely,
look all right whatever happens, believe in his gentility, and avoid talking "shop."... The
major you see is a man of the world, and very pleasantly meets the grey general's eye. He is,
one may remark by the way, something of an army reformer, without offence, of course, to the
Court people or the Government people. His prospects--if only he were not going to be shot--are
brilliant enough. He has written quite cleverly on the question of Recruiting, and advocated
as much as twopence more a day and billiard rooms under the chaplain's control; he has invented
a military bicycle with a wheel of solid iron that can be used as a shield; and a war correspondent
and, indeed, any one who writes even the most casual and irresponsible article on military
questions is a person worth his cultivating. He is the very life and soul of army reform, as
it is known to the governments of the grey--that is to say, army reform without a single step
towards a social revolution....

So the gentlemanly old general--the polished drover to the shambles--rides, and his doomed
column march by, in this vision that haunts my mind.

I cannot foresee what such a force will even attempt to do, against modern weapons. Nothing
can happen but the needless and most wasteful and pitiful killing of these poor lads, who make
up the infantry battalions, the main mass of all the European armies of to-day, whenever they
come against a sanely-organized army. There is nowhere they can come in, there is nothing they
can do. The scattered invisible marksmen with their supporting guns will shatter their masses,
pick them off individually, cover their line of retreat and force them into wholesale surrenders.
It will be more like herding sheep than actual fighting. Yet the bitterest and cruellest things
will have to happen, thousands and thousands of poor boys will be smashed in all sorts of dreadful
ways and given over to every conceivable form of avoidable hardship and painful disease, before
the obvious fact that war is no longer a business for half-trained lads in uniform, led by
parson-bred sixth-form boys and men of pleasure and old men, but an exhaustive demand upon
very carefully-educated adults for the most strenuous best that is in them, will get its practical
recognition.[43]...

Well, in the ampler prospect even this haunting tragedy of innumerable avoidable deaths is
but an incidental thing. They die, and their troubles are over. The larger fact after all is
the inexorable tendency in things to make a soldier a skilled and educated man, and to link
him, in sympathy and organization, with the engineer and the doctor, and all the continually
developing mass of scientifically educated men that the advance of science and mechanism is
producing. We are dealing with the inter-play of two world-wide forces, that work through distinctive
and contrasted tendencies to a common end. We have the force of invention insistent upon a
progress of the peace organization, which tends on the one hand to throw out great useless
masses of people, the People of the Abyss, and on the other hand to develop a sort of adiposity
of functionless wealthy, a speculative elephantiasis, and to promote the development of a new
social order of efficients, only very painfully and slowly, amidst these growing and yet disintegrating
masses. And on the other hand we have the warlike drift of such a social body, the inevitable
intensification of international animosities in such a body, the absolute determination evident
in the scheme of things to smash such a body, to smash it just as far as it is such a body,
under the hammer of war, that must finally bring about rapidly and under pressure the same
result as that to which the peaceful evolution slowly tends. While we are as yet only thinking
of a physiological struggle, of complex reactions and slow absorptions, comes War with the
surgeon's knife. War comes to simplify the issue and line out the thing with knife-like cuts.

The law that dominates the future is glaringly plain. A people must develop and consolidate
its educated efficient classes or be beaten in war and give way upon all points where its interests
conflict with the interests of more capable people. It must foster and accelerate that natural
segregation, which has been discussed in the third and fourth chapters of these "Anticipations,"
or perish. The war of the coming time will really be won in schools and colleges and universities,
wherever men write and read and talk together. The nation that produces in the near future
the largest proportional development of educated and intelligent engineers and agriculturists,
of doctors, schoolmasters, professional soldiers, and intellectually active people of all sorts;
the nation that most resolutely picks over, educates, sterilizes, exports, or poisons its People
of the Abyss; the nation that succeeds most subtly in checking gambling and the moral decay
of women and homes that gambling inevitably entails; the nation that by wise interventions,
death duties and the like, contrives to expropriate and extinguish incompetent rich families
while leaving individual ambitions free; the nation, in a word, that turns the greatest proportion
of its irresponsible adiposity into social muscle, will certainly be the nation that will be
the most powerful in warfare as in peace, will certainly be the ascendant or dominant nation
before the year 2000. In the long run no heroism and no accidents can alter that. No flag-waving,
no patriotic leagues, no visiting of essentially petty imperial personages hither and thither,
no smashing of the windows of outspoken people nor seizures of papers and books, will arrest
the march of national defeat. And this issue is already so plain and simple, the alternatives
are becoming so pitilessly clear, that even in the stupidest court and the stupidest constituencies,
it must presently begin in some dim way to be felt. A time will come when so many people will
see this issue clearly that it will gravely affect political and social life. The patriotic
party--the particular gang, that is, of lawyers, brewers, landlords, and railway directors
that wishes to be dominant--will be forced to become an efficient party in profession at least,
will be forced to stimulate and organize that educational and social development that may at
last even bring patriotism under control. The rulers of the grey, the democratic politician
and the democratic monarch, will be obliged year by year by the very nature of things to promote
the segregation of colours within the grey, to foster the power that will finally supersede
democracy and monarchy altogether, the power of the scientifically educated, disciplined specialist,
and that finally is the power of saints, the power of the thing that is provably right. It
may be delayed, but it cannot be defeated; in the end it must arrive--if not to-day and among
our people, then to-morrow and among another people, who will triumph in our overthrow. This
is the lesson that must be learnt, that some tongue and kindred of the coming time must inevitably
learn. But what tongue it will be, and what kindred that will first attain this new development,
opens far more complex and far less certain issues than any we have hitherto considered.

FOOTNOTES:

[37] Even along such vast frontiers as the Russian and Austrian, for example, where M. Bloch
anticipates war will be begun with an invasion of clouds of Russian cavalry and great cavalry
battles, I am inclined to think this deadlock of essentially defensive marksmen may still be
the more probable thing. Small bodies of cyclist riflemen would rush forward to meet the advancing
clouds of cavalry, would drop into invisible ambushes, and announce their presence--in unknown
numbers--with carefully aimed shots difficult to locate. A small number of such men could always
begin their fight with a surprise at the most advantageous moment, and they would be able to
make themselves very deadly against a comparatively powerful frontal attack. If at last the
attack were driven home before supports came up to the defenders, they would still be able
to cycle away, comparatively immune. To attempt even very wide flanking movements against such
a snatched position would be simply to run risks of blundering upon similar ambushes. The clouds
of cavalry would have to spread into thin lines at last and go forward with the rifle. Invading
clouds of cyclists would be in no better case. A conflict of cyclists against cyclists over
a country too spacious for unbroken lines, would still, I think, leave the struggle essentially
unchanged. The advance of small unsupported bodies would be the wildest and most unprofitable
adventure; every advance would have to be made behind a screen of scouts, and, given a practical
equality in the numbers and manhood of the two forces, these screens would speedily become
simply very attenuated lines.

[38] So far, pestilence has been a feature of almost every sustained war in the world, but
there is really no reason whatever why it should be so. There is no reason, indeed, why a soldier
upon active service on the victorious side should go without a night's rest or miss a meal.
If he does, there is muddle and want of foresight somewhere, and that our hypothesis excludes.

[39] Lady Maud Rolleston, in her very interesting Yeoman Service, complains of the Boers killing
an engine-driver during an attack on a train at Kroonstadt, "which was," she writes, "an abominable
action, as he is, in law, a non-combatant." The implicit assumption of this complaint would
cover the engineers of an ironclad or the guides of a night attack, everybody, in fact, who
was not positively weapon in hand.

[40] Experiments will probably be made in the direction of armoured guns, armoured search-light
carriages, and armoured shelters for men, that will admit of being pushed forward over rifle-swept
ground. To such possibilities, to possibilities even of a sort of land ironclad, my inductive
reason inclines; the armoured train seems indeed a distinct beginning of this sort of thing,
but my imagination proffers nothing but a vision of wheels smashed by shells, iron tortoises
gallantly rushed by hidden men, and unhappy marksmen and engineers being shot at as they bolt
from some such monster overset. The fact of it is, I detest and fear these thick, slow, essentially
defensive methods, either for land or sea fighting. I believe invincibly that the side that
can go fastest and hit hardest will always win, with or without or in spite of massive defences,
and no ingenuity in devising the massive defence will shake that belief.

[41] Or, in deference to the Rules of War, fire them out of guns of trivial carrying power.

[42] A curious result might very possibly follow a success of submarines on the part of a naval
power finally found to be weaker and defeated. The victorious power might decide that a narrow
sea was no longer, under the new conditions, a comfortable boundary line, and might insist
on marking its boundary along the high-water mark of its adversary's adjacent coasts.

[43] There comes to hand as I correct these proofs a very typical illustration of the atmosphere
of really almost imbecile patronage in which the British private soldier lives. It is a circular
from some one at Lydd, some one who evidently cannot even write English, but who is nevertheless
begging for an iron hut in which to inflict lessons on our soldiers. "At present," says this
circular, "it is pretty to see in the Home a group of Gunners busily occupied in wool-work
or learning basket-making, whilst one of their number sings or recites, and others are playing
games or letter-writing, but even quite recently the members of the Bible Reading Union and
one of the ladies might have been seen painfully crowded behind screens, choosing the 'Golden
Text' with lowered voices, and trying to pray 'without distraction,' whilst at the other end
of the room men were having supper, and halfway down a dozen Irish militia (who don't care
to read, but are keen on a story) were gathered round another lady, who was telling them an
amusing temperance tale, trying to speak so that the Bible readers should not hear her and
yet that the Leinsters should was a difficulty, but when the Irishmen begged for a song--difficulty
became impossibility, and their friend had to say, 'No.' Yet this is just the double work required
in Soldiers' Homes, and above all at Lydd, where there is so little safe amusement to be had
in camp, and none in the village." These poor youngsters go from this "safe amusement" under
the loving care of "lady workers," this life of limitation, make-believe and spiritual servitude
that a self-respecting negro would find intolerable, into a warfare that exacts initiative
and a freely acting intelligence from all who take part in it, under the bitterest penalties
of shame and death. What can you expect of them? And how can you expect any men of capacity
and energy, any men even of mediocre self-respect to knowingly place themselves under the tutelage
of the sort of people who dominate these organized degradations? I am amazed the army gets
so many capable recruits as it does. And while the private lives under these conditions, the
would-be capable officer stifles amidst equally impossible surroundings. He must associate
with the uneducated products of the public schools, and listen to their chatter about the "sports"
that delight them, suffer social indignities from the "army woman," worry and waste money on
needless clothes, and expect to end by being shamed or killed under some unfairly promoted
incapable. Nothing illustrates the intellectual blankness of the British army better than its
absolute dearth of military literature. No one would dream of gaining any profit by writing
or publishing a book upon such a subject, for example, as mountain warfare in England, because
not a dozen British officers would have the sense to buy such a book, and yet the British army
is continually getting into scrapes in mountain districts. A few unselfish men like Major Peech
find time to write an essay or so, and that is all. On the other hand, I find no less than
five works in French on this subject in MM. Chapelet & Cie.'s list alone. On guerilla warfare
again, and after two years of South Africa, while there is nothing in English but some scattered
papers by Dr. T. Miller Maguire, there are nearly a dozen good books in French. As a supplement
to these facts is the spectacle of the officers of the Guards telegraphing to Sir Thomas Lipton
on the occasion of the defeat of his Shamrock II., "Hard luck. Be of good cheer. Brigade of
Guards wish you every success." This is not the foolish enthusiasm of one or two subalterns,
it is collective. They followed that yacht race with emotion! is a really important thing to
them. No doubt the whole mess was in a state of extreme excitement. How can capable and active
men be expected to live and work between this upper and that nether millstone? The British
army not only does not attract ambitious, energetic men, it repels them. I must confess that
I see no hope either in the rulers, the traditions, or the manhood of the British regular army,
to forecast its escape from the bog of ignorance and negligence in which it wallows. Far better
than any of projected reforms would it be to let the existing army severely alone, to cease
to recruit for it, to retain (at the expense of its officers, assisted perhaps by subscriptions
from ascendant people like Sir Thomas Lipton) its messes, its uniforms, its games, bands, entertainments,
and splendid memories as an appendage of the Court, and to create, in absolute independence
of it, battalions and batteries of efficient professional soldiers, without social prestige
or social distinctions, without bands, dress uniforms, colours, chaplains or honorary colonels,
and to embody these as a real marching army perpetually en route throughout the empire--a reading,
thinking, experimenting army under an absolutely distinct war office, with its own colleges,
depôts and training camps perpetually ready for war. I cannot help but think that, if a hint
were taken from the Turbinia syndicate, a few enterprising persons of means and intelligence
might do much by private experiment to supplement and replace the existing state of affairs.

VII

THE CONFLICT OF LANGUAGES

We have brought together thus far in these Anticipations the material for the picture of a
human community somewhere towards the year 2000. We have imagined its roads, the type and appearance
of its homes, its social developments, its internal struggle for organization; we have speculated
upon its moral and æsthetic condition, read its newspaper, made an advanced criticism upon
the lack of universality in its literature, and attempted to imagine it at war. We have decided
in particular that unlike the civilized community of the immediate past which lived either
in sharply-defined towns or agriculturally over a wide country, this population will be distributed
in a quite different way, a little more thickly over vast urban regions and a little less thickly
over less attractive or less convenient or less industrial parts of the world. And implicit
in all that has been written there has appeared an unavoidable assumption that the coming community
will be vast, something geographically more extensive than most, and geographically different
from almost all existing communities, that the outline its creative forces will draw not only
does not coincide with existing political centres and boundaries, but will be more often than
not in direct conflict with them, uniting areas that are separated and separating areas that
are united, grouping here half a dozen tongues and peoples together and there tearing apart
homogeneous bodies and distributing the fragments among separate groups. And it will now be
well to inquire a little into the general causes of these existing divisions, the political
boundaries of to-day, and the still older contours of language and race.

It is first to be remarked that each of these sets of boundaries is superposed, as it were,
on the older sets. The race areas, for example, which are now not traceable in Europe at all
must have represented old regions of separation; the language areas, which have little or no
essential relation to racial distribution, have also given way long since to the newer forces
that have united and consolidated nations. And the still newer forces that have united and
separated the nineteenth century states have been, and in many cases are still, in manifest
conflict with "national" ideas.

Now, in the original separation of human races, in the subsequent differentiation and spread
of languages, in the separation of men into nationalities, and in the union and splitting of
states and empires, we have to deal essentially with the fluctuating manifestations of the
same fundamental shaping factor which will determine the distribution of urban districts in
the coming years. Every boundary of the ethnographical, linguistic, political, and commercial
map--as a little consideration will show--has indeed been traced in the first place by the
means of transit, under the compulsion of geographical contours.

There are evident in Europe four or five or more very distinct racial types, and since the
methods and rewards of barbaric warfare and the nature of the chief chattels of barbaric trade
have always been diametrically opposed to racial purity, their original separation could only
have gone on through such an entire lack of communication as prevented either trade or warfare
between the bulk of the differentiating bodies. These original racial types are now inextricably
mingled. Unobservant, over-scholarly people talk or write in the profoundest manner about a
Teutonic race and a Keltic race, and institute all sorts of curious contrasts between these
phantoms, but these are not races at all, if physical characteristics have anything to do with
race. The Dane, the Bavarian, the Prussian, the Frieslander, the Wessex peasant, the Kentish
man, the Virginian, the man from New Jersey, the Norwegian, the Swede, and the Transvaal Boer,
are generalized about, for example, as Teutonic, while the short, dark, cunning sort of Welshman,
the tall and generous Highlander, the miscellaneous Irish, the square-headed Breton, and any
sort of Cornwall peasant are Kelts within the meaning of this oil-lamp anthropology.[44] People
who believe in this sort of thing are not the sort of people that one attempts to convert by
a set argument. One need only say the thing is not so; there is no Teutonic race, and there
never has been; there is no Keltic race, and there never has been. No one has ever proved or
attempted to prove the existence of such races, the thing has always been assumed; they are
dogmas with nothing but questionable authority behind them, and the onus of proof rests on
the believer. This nonsense about Keltic and Teutonic is no more science than Lombroso's extraordinary
assertions about criminals, or palmistry, or the development of religion from a solar myth.
Indisputably there are several races intermingled in the European populations--I am inclined
to suspect the primitive European races may be found to be so distinct as to resist confusion
and pamnyxia through hybridization--but there is no inkling of a satisfactory analysis yet
that will discriminate what these races were and define them in terms of physical and moral
character. The fact remains there is no such thing as a racially pure and homogeneous community
in Europe distinct from other communities. Even among the Jews, according to Erckert and Chantre
and J. Jacobs, there are markedly divergent types, there may have been two original elements
and there have been extensive local intermixtures.

Long before the beginnings of history, while even language was in its first beginnings--indeed
as another aspect of the same process as the beginning of language--the first complete isolations
that established race were breaking down again, the little pools of race were running together
into less homogeneous lagoons and marshes of humanity, the first paths were being worn--war
paths for the most part. Still differentiation would be largely at work. Without frequent intercourse,
frequent interchange of women as the great factor in that intercourse, the tribes and bands
of mankind would still go on separating, would develop dialectic and customary, if not physical
and moral differences. It was no longer a case of pools perhaps, but they were still in lakes.
There were as yet no open seas of mankind. With advancing civilization, with iron weapons and
war discipline, with established paths and a social rule and presently with the coming of the
horse, what one might call the areas of assimilation would increase in size. A stage would
be reached when the only checks to transit of a sufficiently convenient sort to keep language
uniform would be the sea or mountains or a broad river or--pure distance. And presently the
rules of the game, so to speak, would be further altered and the unifications and isolations
that were establishing themselves upset altogether and brought into novel conflict by the beginnings
of navigation, whereby an impassable barrier became a highway.

The commencement of actual European history coincides with the closing phases of what was probably
a very long period of a foot and (occasional) horseback state of communications; the adjustments
so arrived at being already in an early state of rearrangement through the advent of the ship.
The communities of Europe were still for the larger part small isolated tribes and kingdoms,
such kingdoms as a mainly pedestrian militia, or at any rate a militia without transport, and
drawn from (and soon drawn home again by) agricultural work, might hold together. The increase
of transit facilities between such communities, by the development of shipping and the invention
of the wheel and the made road, spelt increased trade perhaps for a time, but very speedily
a more extensive form of war, and in the end either the wearing away of differences and union,
or conquest. Man is the creature of a struggle for existence, incurably egoistic and aggressive.
Convince him of the gospel of self-abnegation even, and he instantly becomes its zealous missionary,
taking great credit that his expedients to ram it into the minds of his fellow-creatures do
not include physical force--and if that is not self-abnegation, he asks, what is? So he has
been, and so he is likely to remain. Not to be so, is to die of abnegation and extinguish the
type. Improvement in transit between communities formerly for all practical purposes isolated,
means, therefore, and always has meant, and I imagine, always will mean, that now they can
get at one another. And they do. They inter-breed and fight, physically, mentally, and spiritually.
Unless Providence is belied in His works that is what they are meant to do.

A third invention which, though not a means of transit like the wheeled vehicle and the ship,
was yet a means of communication, rendered still larger political reactions possible, and that
was the development of systems of writing. The first empires and some sort of written speech
arose together. Just as a kingdom, as distinguished from a mere tribal group of villages, is
almost impossible without horses, so is an empire without writing and post-roads. The history
of the whole world for three thousand years is the history of a unity larger than the small
kingdom of the Heptarchy type, endeavouring to establish itself under the stress of these discoveries
of horse-traffic and shipping and the written word, the history, that is, of the consequences
of the partial shattering of the barriers that had been effectual enough to prevent the fusion
of more than tribal communities through all the long ages before the dawn of history.

East of the Gobi Pamir barrier there has slowly grown up under these new conditions the Chinese
system. West and north of the Sahara Gobi barrier of deserts and mountains, the extraordinarily
strong and spacious conceptions of the Romans succeeded in dominating the world, and do, indeed,
in a sort of mutilated way, by the powers of great words and wide ideas, in Cæsarism and Imperialism,
in the titles of Czar, Kaiser, and Imperator, in Papal pretension and countless political devices,
dominate it to this hour. For awhile these conceptions sustained a united and to a large extent
organized empire over very much of this space. But at its stablest time, this union was no
more than a political union, the spreading of a thin layer of Latin-speaking officials, of
a thin network of roads and a very thin veneer indeed of customs and refinements, over the
scarcely touched national masses. It checked, perhaps, but it nowhere succeeded in stopping
the slow but inevitable differentiation of province from province and nation from nation. The
forces of transit that permitted the Roman imperialism and its partial successors to establish
wide ascendancies, were not sufficient to carry the resultant unity beyond the political stage.
There was unity, but not unification. Tongues and writing ceased to be pure without ceasing
to be distinct. Sympathies, religious and social practices, ran apart and rounded themselves
off like drops of oil on water. Travel was restricted to the rulers and the troops and to a
wealthy leisure class; commerce was for most of the constituent provinces of the empire a commerce
in superficialities, and each province--except for Italy, which latterly became dependent on
an over-seas food supply--was in all essential things autonomous, could have continued in existence,
rulers and ruled, arts, luxuries, and refinements just as they stood, if all other lands and
customs had been swept out of being. Local convulsions and revolutions, conquests and developments,
occurred indeed, but though the stones were altered the mosaic remained, and the general size
and character of its constituent pieces remained. So it was under the Romans, so it was in
the eighteenth century, and so it would probably have remained as long as the post-road and
the sailing-ship were the most rapid forms of transit within the reach of man. Wars and powers
and princes came and went, that was all. Nothing was changed, there was only one state the
more or less. Even in the eighteenth century the process of real unification had effected so
little, that not one of the larger kingdoms of Europe escaped a civil war--not a class war,
but a really internal war--between one part of itself and another, in that hundred years. In
spite of Rome's few centuries of unstable empire, internal wars, a perpetual struggle against
finally triumphant disruption seemed to be the unavoidable destiny of every power that attempted
to rule over a larger radius than at most a hundred miles.

So evident was this that many educated English persons thought then, and many who are not in
the habit of analyzing operating causes, still think to-day, that the wide diffusion of the
English-speaking people is a mere preliminary to their political, social, and linguistic disruption--the
eighteenth-century breach with the United States is made a precedent of, and the unification
that followed the war of Union and the growing unification of Canada is overlooked--that linguistic
differences, differences of custom, costume, prejudice, and the like, will finally make the
Australian, the Canadian of English blood, the Virginian, and the English Africander, as incomprehensible
and unsympathetic one to another as Spaniard and Englishman or Frenchman and German are now.
On such a supposition all our current Imperialism is the most foolish defiance of the inevitable,
the maddest waste of blood, treasure, and emotion that man ever made. So, indeed, it might
be--so, indeed, I certainly think it would be--if it were not that the epoch of post-road and
sailing-ship is at an end. We are in the beginning of a new time, with such forces of organization
and unification at work in mechanical traction, in the telephone and telegraph, in a whole
wonderland of novel, space-destroying appliances, and in the correlated inevitable advance
in practical education, as the world has never felt before.

The operation of these unifying forces is already to be very distinctly traced in the check,
the arrest indeed, of any further differentiation in existing tongues, even in the most widely
spread. In fact, it is more than an arrest even, the forces of differentiation have been driven
back and an actual process of assimilation has set in. In England at the commencement of the
nineteenth century the common man of Somerset and the common man of Yorkshire, the Sussex peasant,
the Caithness cottar and the common Ulsterman, would have been almost incomprehensible to one
another. They differed in accent, in idiom, and in their very names for things. They differed
in their ideas about things. They were, in plain English, foreigners one to another. Now they
differ only in accent, and even that is a dwindling difference. Their language has become ampler
because now they read. They read books--or, at any rate, they learn to read out of books--and
certainly they read newspapers and those scrappy periodicals that people like bishops pretend
to think so detrimental to the human mind, periodicals that it is cheaper to make at centres
and uniformly, than locally in accordance with local needs. Since the newspaper cannot fit
the locality, the locality has to broaden its mind to the newspaper, and to ideas acceptable
in other localities. The word and the idiom of the literary language and the pronunciation
suggested by its spelling tends to prevail over the local usage. And moreover there is a persistent
mixing of peoples going on, migration in search of employment and so on, quite unprecedented
before the railways came. Few people are content to remain in that locality and state of life
"into which it has pleased God to call them." As a result, dialectic purity has vanished, dialects
are rapidly vanishing, and novel differentiations are retarded or arrested altogether. Such
novelties as do establish themselves in a locality are widely disseminated almost at once in
books and periodicals.

A parallel arrest of dialectic separation has happened in France, in Italy, in Germany, and
in the States. It is not a process peculiar to any one nation. It is simply an aspect of the
general process that has arisen out of mechanical locomotion. The organization of elementary
education has no doubt been an important factor, but the essential influence working through
this circumstance is the fact that paper is relatively cheap to type-setting, and both cheap
to authorship--even the commonest sorts of authorship--and the wider the area a periodical
or book serves the bigger, more attractive, and better it can be made for the same money. And
clearly this process of assimilation will continue. Even local differences of accent seem likely
to follow. The itinerant dramatic company, the itinerant preacher, the coming extension of
telephones and the phonograph, which at any time in some application to correspondence or instruction
may cease to be a toy, all these things attack, or threaten to attack, the weeds of differentiation
before they can take root....

And this process is not restricted to dialects merely. The native of a small country who knows
no other language than the tongue of his country becomes increasingly at a disadvantage in
comparison with the user of any of the three great languages of the Europeanized world. For
his literature he depends on the scanty writers who are in his own case and write, or have
written, in his own tongue. Necessarily they are few, because necessarily with a small public
there can be only subsistence for a few. For his science he is in a worse case. His country
can produce neither teachers nor discoverers to compare with the numbers of such workers in
the larger areas, and it will neither pay them to write original matter for his instruction
nor to translate what has been written in other tongues. The larger the number of people reading
a tongue, the larger--other things being equal--will be not only the output of more or less
original literature in that tongue, but also the more profitable and numerous will be translations
of whatever has value in other tongues. Moreover, the larger the reading public in any language
the cheaper will it be to supply copies of the desired work. In the matter of current intelligence
the case of the speaker of the small language is still worse. His newspaper will need to be
cheaply served, his home intelligence will be cut and restricted, his foreign news belated
and second hand. Moreover, to travel even a little distance or to conduct anything but the
smallest business enterprise will be exceptionally inconvenient to him. The Englishman who
knows no language but his own may travel well-nigh all over the world and everywhere meet some
one who can speak his tongue. But what of the Welsh-speaking Welshman? What of the Basque and
the Lithuanian who can speak only his mother tongue? Everywhere such a man is a foreigner and
with all the foreigner's disadvantages. In most places he is for all practical purposes deaf
and dumb.

The inducements to an Englishman, Frenchman or German to become bi-lingual are great enough
nowadays, but the inducements to a speaker of the smaller languages are rapidly approaching
compulsion. He must do it in self-defence. To be an educated man in his own vernacular has
become an impossibility, he must either become a mental subject of one of the greater languages
or sink to the intellectual status of a peasant. But if our analysis of social development
was correct the peasant of to-day will be represented to-morrow by the people of no account
whatever, the classes of extinction, the People of the Abyss. If that analysis was correct,
the essential nation will be all of educated men, that is to say, the essential nation will
speak some dominant language or cease to exist, whatever its primordial tongue may have been.
It will pass out of being and become a mere local area of the lower social stratum,--a Problem
for the philanthropic amateur.

The action of the force of attraction of the great tongues is cumulative. It goes on, as bodies
fall, with a steady acceleration. The more the great tongues prevail over the little languages
the less will be the inducement to write and translate into these latter, the less the inducement
to master them with any care or precision. And so this attack upon the smaller tongues, this
gravitation of those who are born to speak them, towards the great languages, is not only to
be seen going on in the case of such languages as Flemish, Welsh, or Basque, but even in the
case of Norwegian and of such a great and noble tongue as the Italian, I am afraid that the
trend of things makes for a similar suppression. All over Italy is the French newspaper and
the French book. French wins its way more and more there, as English, I understand, is doing
in Norway, and English and German in Holland. And in the coming years when the reading public
will, in the case of the Western nations, be practically the whole functional population, when
travel will be more extensive and abundant, and the inter-change of printed matter still cheaper
and swifter--and above all with the spread of the telephone--the process of subtle, bloodless,
unpremeditated annexation will conceivably progress much more rapidly even than it does at
present. The Twentieth Century will see the effectual crowding out of most of the weaker languages--if
not a positive crowding out, yet at least (as in Flanders) a supplementing of them by the superposition
of one or other of a limited number of world-languages over the area in which each is spoken.
This will go on not only in Europe, but with varying rates of progress and local eddies and
interruptions over the whole world. Except in the special case of China and Japan, where there
may be a unique development, the peoples of the world will escape from the wreckage of their
too small and swamped and foundering social systems, only up the ladders of what one may call
the aggregating tongues.

What will these aggregating world-languages be? If one has regard only to its extension during
the nineteenth century one may easily incline to overrate the probabilities of English becoming
the chief of these. But a great part of the vast extension of English that has occurred has
been due to the rapid reproduction of originally English-speaking peoples, the emigration of
foreigners into English-speaking countries in quantities too small to resist the contagion
about them, and the compulsion due to the political and commercial preponderance of a people
too illiterate to readily master strange tongues. None of these causes have any essential permanence.
When one comes to look more closely into the question one is surprised to discover how slow
the extension of English has been in the face of apparently far less convenient tongues. English
still fails to replace the French language in French Canada, and its ascendency is doubtful
to-day in South Africa, after nearly a century of British dominion. It has none of the contagious
quality of French, and the small class that monopolizes the direction of British affairs, and
probably will monopolize it yet for several decades, has never displayed any great zeal to
propagate its use. Of the few ideas possessed by the British governing class, the destruction
and discouragement of schools and colleges is, unfortunately, one of the chief, and there is
an absolute incapacity to understand the political significance of the language question. The
Hindoo who is at pains to learn and use English encounters something uncommonly like hatred
disguised in a facetious form. He will certainly read little about himself in English that
is not grossly contemptuous, to reward him for his labour. The possibilities that have existed,
and that do still in a dwindling degree exist, for resolute statesmen to make English the common
language of communication for all Asia south and east of the Himalayas, will have to develop
of their own force or dwindle and pass away. They may quite probably pass away. There is no
sign that either the English or the Americans have a sufficient sense of the importance of
linguistic predominance in the future of their race to interfere with natural processes in
this matter for many years to come.

Among peoples not actually subject to British or American rule, and who are neither waiters
nor commercial travellers, the inducements to learn English, rather than French or German,
do not increase. If our initial assumptions are right, the decisive factor in this matter is
the amount of science and thought the acquisition of a language will afford the man who learns
it. It becomes, therefore, a fact of very great significance that the actual number of books
published in English is less than that in French or German, and that the proportion of serious
books is very greatly less. A large proportion of English books are novels adapted to the minds
of women, or of boys and superannuated business men, stories designed rather to allay than
stimulate thought--they are the only books, indeed, that are profitable to publisher and author
alike. In this connection they do not count, however; no foreigner is likely to learn English
for the pleasure of reading Miss Marie Corelli in the original, or of drinking untranslatable
elements from The Helmet of Navarre. The present conditions of book production for the English
reading public offer no hope of any immediate change in this respect. There is neither honour
nor reward--there is not even food or shelter--for the American or Englishman who devotes a
year or so of his life to the adequate treatment of any spacious question, and so small is
the English reading public with any special interest in science, that a great number of important
foreign scientific works are never translated into English at all. Such interesting compilations
as Bloch's work on war, for example, must be read in French; in English only a brief summary
of his results is to be obtained, under a sensational heading.[45] Schopenhauer again is only
to be got quite stupidly Bowdlerized, explained, and "selected" in English. Many translations
that are made into English are made only to sell, they are too often the work of sweated women
and girls--very often quite without any special knowledge of the matter they translate--they
are difficult to read and untrustworthy to quote. The production of books in English, except
the author be a wealthy amateur, rests finally upon the publishers, and publishers to-day stand
a little lower than ordinary tradesmen in not caring at all whether the goods they sell are
good or bad. Unusual books, they allege--and all good books are unusual--are "difficult to
handle," and the author must pay the fine--amounting, more often than not, to the greater portion
of his interest in the book. There is no criticism to control the advertising enterprises of
publishers and authors, and no sufficiently intelligent reading public has differentiated out
of the confusion to encourage attempts at critical discrimination. The organs of the great
professions and technical trades are as yet not alive to the part their readers must play in
the public life of the future, and ignore all but strictly technical publications. A bastard
criticism, written in many cases by publishers' employees, a criticism having a very direct
relation to the advertisement columns, distributes praise and blame in the periodic press.
There is no body of great men either in England or America, no intelligence in the British
Court, that might by any form of recognition compensate the philosophical or scientific writer
for poverty and popular neglect. The more powerful a man's intelligence the more distinctly
he must see that to devote himself to increase the scientific or philosophical wealth of the
English tongue will be to sacrifice comfort, the respect of the bulk of his contemporaries,
and all the most delightful things of life, for the barren reward of a not very certain righteous
self-applause. By brewing and dealing in tied houses,[46] or by selling pork and tea, or by
stock-jobbing and by pandering with the profits so obtained to the pleasures of the established
great, a man of energy may hope to rise to a pitch of public honour and popularity immeasurably
in excess of anything attainable through the most splendid intellectual performances. Heaven
forbid I should overrate public honours and the company of princes! But it is not always delightful
to be splashed by the wheels of cabs. Always before there has been at least a convention that
the Court of this country, and its aristocracy, were radiant centres of moral and intellectual
influence, that they did to some extent check and correct the judgments of the cab-rank and
the beer-house. But the British Crown of to-day, so far as it exists for science and literature
at all, exists mainly to repudiate the claims of intellectual performance to public respect.

These things, if they were merely the grievances of the study, might very well rest there.
But they must be recognized here because the intellectual decline of the published literature
of the English language--using the word to cover all sorts of books--involves finally the decline
of the language and of all the spacious political possibilities that go with the wide extension
of a language. Conceivably, if in the coming years a deliberate attempt were made to provide
sound instruction in English to all who sought it, and to all within the control of English-speaking
Governments, if honour and emolument were given to literary men instead of being left to them
to most indelicately take, and if the present sordid trade of publishing were so lifted as
to bring the whole literature, the whole science, and all the contemporary thought of the world--not
some selection of the world's literature, not some obsolete Encyclopædia sold meanly and basely
to choke hungry minds, but a real publication of all that has been and is being done--within
the reach of each man's need and desire who had the franchise of the tongue, then by the year
2000 I would prophesy that the whole functional body of human society would read, and perhaps
even write and speak, our language. And not only that, but it might be the prevalent and everyday
language of Scandinavia and Denmark and Holland, of all Africa, all North America, of the Pacific
coasts of Asia and of India, the universal international language, and in a fair way to be
the universal language of mankind. But such an enterprise demands a resolve and intelligence
beyond all the immediate signs of the times; it implies a veritable renascence of intellectual
life among the English-speaking peoples. The probabilities of such a renascence will be more
conveniently discussed at a later stage, when we attempt to draw the broad outline of the struggle
for world-wide ascendency that the coming years will see. But here it is clear that upon the
probability of such a renascence depends the extension of the language, and not only that,
but the preservation of that military and naval efficiency upon which, in this world of resolute
aggression, the existence of the English-speaking communities finally depends.

French and German will certainly be aggregating languages during the greater portion of the
coming years. Of the two I am inclined to think French will spread further than German. There
is a disposition in the world, which the French share, to grossly undervalue the prospects
of all things French, derived, so far as I can gather, from the facts that the French were
beaten by the Germans in 1870, and that they do not breed with the abandon of rabbits or negroes.
These are considerations that affect the dissemination of French very little. The French reading
public is something different and very much larger than the existing French political system.
The number of books published in French is greater than that published in English; there is
a critical reception for a work published in French that is one of the few things worth a writer's
having, and the French translators are the most alert and efficient in the world. One has only
to see a Parisian bookshop, and to recall an English one, to realize the as yet unattainable
standing of French. The serried ranks of lemon-coloured volumes in the former have the whole
range of human thought and interest; there are no taboos and no limits, you have everything
up and down the scale, from frank indecency to stark wisdom. It is a shop for men. I remember
my amazement to discover three copies of a translation of that most wonderful book, the Text-book
of Psychology of Professor William James,[ERRATUM: for 'The Text Book of Psychology,' read
'The Principles of Psychology'.] in a shop in L'Avenue de l'Opera--three copies of a book that
I have never seen anywhere in England outside my own house,--and I am an attentive student
of bookshop windows! And the French books are all so pleasant in the page, and so cheap--they
are for a people that buys to read. One thinks of the English bookshop, with its gaudy reach-me-downs
of gilded and embossed cover, its horribly printed novels still more horribly "illustrated,"
the exasperating pointless variety in the size and thickness of its books. The general effect
of the English book is that it is something sold by a dealer in bric-à-brac, honestly sorry
the thing is a book, but who has done his best to remedy it, anyhow! And all the English shopful
is either brand new fiction or illustrated travel (of 'Buns with the Grand Lama' type), or
gilded versions of the classics of past times done up to give away. While the French bookshop
reeks of contemporary intellectual life!

These things count for French as against English now, and they will count for infinitely more
in the coming years. And over German also French has many advantages. In spite of the numerical
preponderance of books published in Germany, it is doubtful if the German reader has quite
such a catholic feast before him as the reader of French. There is a mass of German fiction
probably as uninteresting to a foreigner as popular English and American romance. And German
compared with French is an unattractive language; unmelodious, unwieldy, and cursed with a
hideous and blinding lettering that the German is too patriotic to sacrifice. There has been
in Germany a more powerful parallel to what one may call the "honest Saxon" movement among
the English, that queer mental twist that moves men to call an otherwise undistinguished preface
a "Foreword," and find a pleasurable advantage over their fellow-creatures in a familiarity
with "eftsoons." This tendency in German has done much to arrest the simplification of idiom,
and checked the development of new words of classical origin. In particular it has stood in
the way of the international use of scientific terms. The Englishman, the Frenchman, and the
Italian have a certain community of technical, scientific, and philosophical phraseology, and
it is frequently easier for an Englishman with some special knowledge of his subject to read
and appreciate a subtle and technical work in French, than it is for him to fully enter into
the popular matter of the same tongue. Moreover, the technicalities of these peoples, being
not so immediately and constantly brought into contrast and contact with their Latin or Greek
roots as they would be if they were derived (as are so many "patriotic" German technicalities)
from native roots, are free to qualify and develop a final meaning distinct from their original
intention. In the growing and changing body of science this counts for much. The indigenous
German technicality remains clumsy and compromised by its everyday relations, to the end of
time it drags a lengthening chain of unsuitable associations. And the shade of meaning, the
limited qualification, that a Frenchman or Englishman can attain with a mere twist of the sentence,
the German must either abandon or laboriously overstate with some colossal wormcast of parenthesis....
Moreover, against the German tongue there are hostile frontiers, there are hostile people who
fear German preponderance, and who have set their hearts against its use. In Roumania, and
among the Slav, Bohemian, and Hungarian peoples, French attacks German in the flank, and has
as clear a prospect of predominance.

These two tongues must inevitably come into keen conflict; they will perhaps fight their battle
for the linguistic conquest of Europe, and perhaps of the world, in a great urban region that
will arise about the Rhine. Politically this region lies now in six independent States, but
economically it must become one in the next fifty years. It will almost certainly be the greatest
urban region in all the world except that which will arise in the eastern States of North America,
and that which may arise somewhere about Hankow. It will stretch from Lille to Kiel, it will
drive extensions along the Rhine valley into Switzerland, and fling an arm along the Moldau
to Prague, it will be the industrial capital of the old world. Paris will be its West End,
and it will stretch a spider's web of railways and great roads of the new sort over the whole
continent. Even when the coal-field industries of the plain give place to the industrial application
of mountain-born electricity, this great city region will remain, I believe, in its present
position at the seaport end of the great plain of the Old World. Considerations of transit
will keep it where it has grown, and electricity will be brought to it in mighty cables from
the torrents of the central European mountain mass. Its westward port may be Bordeaux or Milford
Haven, or even some port in the south-west of Ireland--unless, which is very unlikely, the
velocity of secure sea-travel can be increased beyond that of land locomotion. I do not see
how this great region is to unify itself without some linguistic compromise--the Germanization
of the French-speaking peoples by force is too ridiculous a suggestion to entertain. Almost
inevitably with travel, with transport communications, with every condition of human convenience
insisting upon it, formally or informally a bi-lingual compromise will come into operation,
and to my mind at least the chances seem even that French will emerge on the upper hand. Unless,
indeed, that great renascence of the English-speaking peoples should, after all, so overwhelmingly
occur as to force this European city to be tri-lingual, and prepare the way by which the whole
world may at last speak together in one tongue.

These are the aggregating tongues. I do not think that any other tongues than these are quite
likely to hold their own in the coming time. Italian may flourish in the city of the Po valley,
but only with French beside it. Spanish and Russian are mighty languages, but without a reading
public how can they prevail, and what prospect of a reading public has either? They are, I
believe, already judged. By A.D. 2000 all these languages will be tending more and more to
be the second tongues of bi-lingual communities, with French, or English, or less probably
German winning the upper hand.

But when one turns to China there are the strangest possibilities. It is in Eastern Asia alone
that there seems to be any possibility of a synthesis sufficiently great to maintain itself,
arising outside of, and independently of, the interlocked system of mechanically sustained
societies that is developing out of mediæval Christendom. Throughout Eastern Asia there is
still, no doubt, a vast wilderness of languages, but over them all rides the Chinese writing.
And very strong--strong enough to be very gravely considered--is the possibility of that writing
taking up an orthodox association of sounds, and becoming a world speech. The Japanese written
language, the language of Japanese literature, tends to assimilate itself to Chinese, and fresh
Chinese words and expressions are continually taking root in Japan. The Japanese are a people
quite abnormal and incalculable, with a touch of romance, a conception of honour, a quality
of imagination, and a clearness of intelligence that renders possible for them things inconceivable
of any other existing nation. I may be the slave of perspective effects, but when I turn my
mind from the pettifogging muddle of the English House of Commons, for example, that magnified
vestry that is so proud of itself as a club--when I turn from that to this race of brave and
smiling people, abruptly destiny begins drawing with a bolder hand. Suppose the Japanese were
to make up their minds to accelerate whatever process of synthesis were possible in China!
Suppose, after all, I am not the victim of atmospheric refraction, and they are, indeed, as
gallant and bold and intelligent as my baseless conception of them would have them be! They
would almost certainly find co-operative elements among the educated Chinese.... But this is
no doubt the lesser probability. In front and rear of China the English language stands. It
has the start of all other languages--the mechanical advantage--the position. And if only we,
who think and write and translate and print and put forth, could make it worth the world's having!

FOOTNOTES:

[44] Under the intoxication of the Keltic Renascence the most diverse sorts of human beings
have foregathered and met face to face, and been photographed Pan-Keltically, and have no doubt
gloated over these collective photographs, without any of them realizing, it seems, what a
miscellaneous thing the Keltic race must be. There is nothing that may or may not be a Kelt,
and I know, for example, professional Kelts who are, so far as face, manners, accents, morals,
and ideals go, indistinguishable from other people who are, I am told, indisputably Assyroid Jews.

[45] Is War Now Impossible? and see also footnote, p. 210.

[46] It is entirely for their wealth that brewers have been ennobled in England, never because
of their services as captains of a great industry. Indeed, these services have been typically
poor. While these men were earning their peerages by the sort of proceedings that do secure
men peerages under the British Crown, the German brewers were developing the art and science
of brewing with remarkable energy and success. The Germans and Bohemians can now make light
beers that the English brewers cannot even imitate; they are exporting beer to England in steadily
increasing volume.

VIII

THE LARGER SYNTHESIS

We have seen that the essential process arising out of the growth of science and mechanism,
and more particularly out of the still developing new facilities of locomotion and communication
science has afforded, is the deliquescence of the social organizations of the past, and the
synthesis of ampler and still ampler and more complicated and still more complicated social
unities. The suggestion is powerful, the conclusion is hard to resist, that, through whatever
disorders of danger and conflict, whatever centuries of misunderstanding and bloodshed, men
may still have to pass, this process nevertheless aims finally, and will attain to the establishment
of one world-state at peace within itself. In the economic sense, indeed, a world-state is
already established. Even to-day we do all buy and sell in the same markets--albeit the owners
of certain ancient rights levy their tolls here and there--and the Hindoo starves, the Italian
feels the pinch, before the Germans or the English go short of bread. There is no real autonomy
any more in the world, no simple right to an absolute independence such as formerly the Swiss
could claim. The nations and boundaries of to-day do no more than mark claims to exemptions,
privileges, and corners in the market--claims valid enough to those whose minds and souls are
turned towards the past, but absurdities to those who look to the future as the end and justification
of our present stresses. The claim to political liberty amounts, as a rule, to no more than
the claim of a man to live in a parish without observing sanitary precautions or paying rates
because he had an excellent great-grandfather. Against all these old isolations, these obsolescent
particularisms, the forces of mechanical and scientific development fight, and fight irresistibly;
and upon the general recognition of this conflict, upon the intelligence and courage with which
its inflexible conditions are negotiated, depends very largely the amount of bloodshed and
avoidable misery the coming years will hold.

The final attainment of this great synthesis, like the social deliquescence and reconstruction
dealt with in the earlier of these anticipations, has an air of being a process independent
of any collective or conscious will in man, as being the expression of a greater Will; it is
working now, and may work out to its end vastly, and yet at times almost imperceptibly, as
some huge secular movement in Nature, the raising of a continent, the crumbling of a mountain-chain,
goes on to its appointed culmination. Or one may compare the process to a net that has surrounded,
and that is drawn continually closer and closer upon, a great and varied multitude of men.
We may cherish animosities, we may declare imperishable distances, we may plot and counter-plot,
make war and "fight to a finish;" the net tightens for all that.

Already the need of some synthesis at least ampler than existing national organizations is
so apparent in the world, that at least five spacious movements of coalescence exist to-day;
there is the movement called Anglo-Saxonism, the allied but finally very different movement
of British Imperialism, the Pan-Germanic movement, Pan-Slavism, and the conception of a great
union of the "Latin" peoples. Under the outrageous treatment of the white peoples an idea of
unifying the "Yellow" peoples is pretty certain to become audibly and visibly operative before
many years. These are all deliberate and justifiable suggestions, and they all aim to sacrifice
minor differences in order to link like to like in greater matters, and so secure, if not physical
predominance in the world, at least an effective defensive strength for their racial, moral,
customary, or linguistic differences against the aggressions of other possible coalescences.
But these syntheses or other similar synthetic conceptions, if they do not contrive to establish
a rational social unity by sanely negotiated unions, will be forced to fight for physical predominance
in the world. The whole trend of forces in the world is against the preservation of local social
systems however greatly and spaciously conceived. Yet it is quite possible that several or
all of the cultures that will arise out of the development of these Pan-this-and-that movements
may in many of their features survive, as the culture of the Jews has survived, political obliteration,
and may disseminate themselves, as the Jewish system has disseminated itself, over the whole
world-city. Unity by no means involves homogeneity. The greater the social organism the more
complex and varied its parts, the more intricate and varied the interplay of culture and breed
and character within it.

It is doubtful if either the Latin or the Pan-Slavic idea contains the promise of any great
political unification. The elements of the Latin synthesis are dispersed in South and Central
America and about the Mediterranean basin in a way that offers no prospect of an economic unity
between them. The best elements of the French people lie in the western portion of what must
become the greatest urban region of the Old World, the Rhine-Netherlandish region; the interests
of North Italy draw that region away from the Italy of Rome and the South towards the Swiss
and South Germany, and the Spanish and Portuguese speaking halfbreeds of South America have
not only their own coalescences to arrange, but they lie already under the political tutelage
of the United States. Nowhere except in France and North Italy is there any prospect of such
an intellectual and educational evolution as is necessary before a great scheme of unification
can begin to take effect. And the difficulties in the way of the pan-Slavic dream are far graver.
Its realization is enormously hampered by the division of its languages, and the fact that
in the Bohemian language, in Polish and in Russian, there exist distinct literatures, almost
equally splendid in achievement, but equally insufficient in quantity and range to establish
a claim to replace all other Slavonic dialects. Russia, which should form the central mass
of this synthesis, stagnates, relatively to the Western states, under the rule of reactionary
intelligences; it does not develop, and does not seem likely to develop, the merest beginnings
of that great educated middle class, with which the future so enormously rests. The Russia
of to-day is indeed very little more than a vast breeding-ground for an illiterate peasantry,
and the forecasts of its future greatness entirely ignore that dwindling significance of mere
numbers in warfare which is the clear and necessary consequence of mechanical advance. To a
large extent, I believe, the Western Slavs will follow the Prussians and Lithuanians, and be
incorporated in the urbanization of Western Europe, and the remoter portions of Russia seem
destined to become--are indeed becoming--Abyss, a wretched and disorderly Abyss that will not
even be formidable to the armed and disciplined peoples of the new civilization, the last quarter
of the earth, perhaps, where a barbaric or absentee nobility will shadow the squalid and unhappy
destinies of a multitude of hopeless and unmeaning lives.

To a certain extent, Russia may play the part of a vaster Ireland, in her failure to keep pace
with the educational and economic progress of nations which have come into economic unity with
her. She will be an Ireland without emigration, a place for famines. And while Russia delays
to develop anything but a fecund orthodoxy and this simple peasant life, the grooves and channels
are growing ever deeper along which the currents of trade, of intellectual and moral stimulus,
must presently flow towards the West. I see no region where anything like the comparatively
dense urban regions that are likely to arise about the Rhineland and over the eastern states
of America, for example, can develop in Russia. With railways planned boldly, it would have
been possible, it might still be possible, to make about Odessa a parallel to Chicago, but
the existing railways run about Odessa as though Asia were unknown; and when at last the commercial
awakening of what is now the Turkish Empire comes, the railway lines will probably run, not
north or south, but from the urban region of the more scientific central Europeans down to
Constantinople. The long-route land communications in the future will become continually more
swift and efficient than Baltic navigation, and it is unlikely, therefore, that St. Petersburg
has any great possibilities of growth. It was founded by a man whose idea of the course of
trade and civilization was the sea wholly and solely, and in the future the sea must necessarily
become more and more a last resort. With its spacious prospects, its architectural magnificence,
its political quality, its desertion by the new commerce, and its terrible peasant hinterland,
it may come about that a striking analogy between St. Petersburg and Dublin will finally appear.

So much for the Pan-Slavic synthesis. It seems improbable that it can prevail against the forces
that make for the linguistic and economic annexation of the greater part of European Russia
and of the minor Slavonic masses, to the great Western European urban region.

