The Last Reformation

By F.G. Smith

BY THE SAME AUTHOR

WHAT THE BIBLE TEACHES THE REVELATION EXPLAINED PROPHETIC LECTURES ON DANIEL AND REVELATION

PREFACE

God's true people everywhere are looking for light on the church question. A deep undercurrent
of dissatisfaction with the present order of things exists in the ecclesiastical world. The
historic creeds are stationary and conservative, but religious thought can not always be bound
nor its progress permanently hindered. Honest Christian men and women will think, and they
are now thinking in the terms of a universal Christianity. If I am able to discern the signs
of the times, the rising tide of Christian love and fellowship is about to overflow the lines
of sect and bring together in one common hope and in one common brotherhood all those who love
our Lord Jesus Christ in sincerity.

What will constitute the leading characteristics of the church of the future? This is the burning
question. Spiritual-minded men are conscious that things can not long continue as they now
are, but what and where is the remedy?

After this book was completed and in the hands of the printers, I received a copy of "The Church
and its Organization," by Walter Lowrie, and was surprized to find in it much truth that I
had already received through independent investigation and embodied in my manuscript. I refer
particularly to the charismatic organization and government of the church. It is gratifying
to know that other minds are being led to the same conclusions regarding a subject of such
vital importance to the future of Christianity.

In writing the present work I have endeavored to present the Scriptural solution of this great
problem, a solution which takes into account, and gives due respect to, historic Christianity,
the prophecies respecting the church and its destiny, and the fundamental characteristics of
our holy religion as it emanated from the divine Founder.

If this work can be of service in pointing out Christ's plan and purpose to "gather together
in one the children of God which are scattered abroad," and also be instrumental in helping
to accomplish this grand Christian ideal, I shall feel abundantly repaid. F.G. SMITH.

Anderson, Indiana, May 6, 1919.

CONTENTS

                                              PAGE
Introduction--"The Time of Reformation"          9

Part I--The Church in Apostolic Days

CHAPTER
    I The Church Defined                        19
   II The Universal Church                      21
  III The Local Church                          33
   IV The Organization and Government of the
      Church                                    41

Part II--The Church in History

    V Corruption of Evangelical Faith           73
   VI Rise of Ecclesiasticism                   87
  VII The Reformation                          101
 VIII Modern Sects                             111
   IX The Church of the Future                 125

Part III--The Church in Prophecy

    X Interpretation of Prophetic Symbols      141
   XI The Apostolic Period                     149
  XII The Medieval Period                      169
 XIII Era of Modern Sects                      209
  XIV The Last Reformation                     223

INTRODUCTION

"THE TIME OF REFORMATION"

In ecclesiastical history the term Reformation has been applied specifically to the important
religious movement of the sixteenth century which resulted in the formation of the various
Protestant churches of that period. Since the sixteenth century there have been other religious
reformations, some of considerable importance and influence.

[Sidenote: A present reformation]

There is a present reformation specially distinguished from all those that have gone before.
It is resulting from the particular operation of the Spirit of God as predicted in the Word
of God, and its influences are being felt in varying degrees throughout all Christendom. Many
Christians are already stirred to action by the conscious knowledge of Christ's message for
these times, while multiplied thousands of others who love the Lord Jesus are experiencing
within their own hearts the awakening of new aspirations and impulses, the real meaning of
which they do not as yet understand, but which are, through the leadership of the Holy Spirit,
unconsciously fitting them for their true place in this great world-wide movement which is
destined to exceed in importance and influence all other religious reformations since the days
of primitive Christianity.

Since, as we shall show, the present reformation is the work of the Spirit affecting all true
Christians, drawing them together for the realization of a grand Scriptural ideal, it is evident
that no particular band of people enjoy its exclusive monopoly. May the same Holy Spirit illuminate
our hearts and minds in the contemplation of the truths of the divine Word.

The term reformation signifies "the act of reforming or the state of being reformed; change
from worse to better; correction or amendment of life, manners, or of anything vicious or corrupt."
In its application to the religion of Christ, reformation means the correction of abuses and
corrupt practises that have become associated with the Christian system; the elimination of
all unworthy, foreign elements. In other words, it implies restoration, a return to the practises
and ideals of primitive Christianity.

[Sidenote: What the final reformation must include]

If we inquire concerning the limits of true reformatory work, we see at once that, if there
is to be a final reformation, such a movement must restore in its fundamental aspects apostolic
Christianity--its doctrines, its ordinances, its personal regenerating and sanctifying experiences,
its spiritual life, its holiness, its power, its purity, its gifts of the Spirit, its unity
of believers, and its fruits. This assumes, of course, that during the centuries there has
been a departure from this standard.

[Sidenote: The church itself the real object of reformation]

No reformation since apostolic times has covered all this ground. All the reformations taken
together fall far short of this standard. They have been reformations only in part, each movement
simply placing special emphasis on particular doctrines, or ordinances, or personal experiences.
Hence the need of further reformation. The present movement embraces all the truth contained
in all the previous reformations of Protestantism. But it does not stop there. It stands committed
to all the truth of the Word of God. It goes straight to the heart of the reformation subject
and reveals the pure, holy, universal church of the apostolic times as made up of all those
who were regenerated, uniting them all IN CHRIST; in the "church of the living God," which
church was "the pillar and ground of the truth" (1 Tim. 3:15); the church that was graced with
the gifts of the Spirit and filled with holy power.

The true apostolic church has been largely lost to view since the early Christian centuries,
when a general apostasy dimmed the light of truth and plunged the world into the darkness of
papal night. In modern times the term "church" as applied to a general body of religious worshipers
is usually employed in a restricted sense, specifying some particular organization, as the
hierarchy of Rome or the aggregation of local congregations constituting a Protestant sect.
By a natural reaction from the Romish extreme, wherein the church and church relationship are
exalted above the personal relationship of the individual with his God, many teachers now incline
to an opposite extreme, which makes little of the church as an institution, substituting therefor
a sort of "loyalty to Christ," individualism, subversive of true New Testament standards.

[Sidenote: The true church Scripturally important]

The church is not to be exalted above the Christ, nor is it a substitute for the Christ; but
in the light of New Testament teaching we must regard the true church as the instrument--the
divinely appointed instrument used by the Holy Spirit in carrying forward the work of Christ
on earth.

If Paul were living today, he also might despise the "church" idea in its narrow sectarian
sense. But from the apostle's words, it is very evident that he regarded the church as it existed
in his day as an institution crowned with glory and honor, the concrete expression of Christ
and his truth. (Eph. 4:11-15).

[Sidenote: The church as a divine institution]

Inasmuch as God set in the church apostles, prophets, evangelists, gifts of miracles, of healings,
etc., we must regard the church as originally instituted as being more than a mere aggregate
of individuals associating themselves together for particular purposes. We must recognize the
divine element. This company was the host of redeemed ones whom Christ had saved, in whom he
dwelt, and through whom he revealed God and accomplished his work on earth. It was his body--the
organism to which he gave spiritual life and through which he manifested the fulness of his
power and glory.

[Sidenote: Church relationship vs. individualism]

Any reformation that has not for its object the full restoration of the New Testament church,
can not be a complete reformation, but must be succeeded by another. In this respect the church
subject is fundamental and all-inclusive. To emphasize a mere "personal-union-with-Christ"
theory to the disparagement of the divine ekklesia, is to evade the real issue. Jesus declared,
"I will build my church," and that church was an objective reality, which was not intended
to be concealed under high-sounding theological verbiage nor dissipated in glittering generalities.
It is true that Christ himself must be presented as the ground of our hope and salvation and
as the object of our personal faith, love, and devotion; as "the way, the truth, and the life";
but we must not forget that there is also a revelation of the way, the truth, and the life
in the church of Christ. They preached Christ as the personification of "truth." But they also
taught that the gospel was a special "treasure" committed to the church for dispensing to the
nations. Paul said that God hath "committed unto us the word of reconciliation" (2 Cor. 5:19).
Therefore he could represent the church of God "as the pillar and ground of the truth." They
preached him as "life," but he was also the life of the collective body of believers as well
as of individuals. He dwelt in his church. He was its life, and through it he manifested himself
in the only form in which, since the incarnation, he can be fully exhibited to men.

[Sidenote: Avoiding extremes]

The fact that Romanism has stressed the "church" idea, parading before the world as the church
an organic body devoid of true spiritual life, a mere corpse, is no reason justifying a view
which, ignoring the practical church relationship taught in the New Testament, talks glibly
of an ethereal, intangible, ghostly something which, without a body, lacks all practical contact
with men. The Bible standard is the proper union of soul and body. It is certain that, as in
apostolic days, such union is necessary to the proper exhibition of the divine life and absolutely
essential to the full accomplishment of the divine purposes in Christ's great redemptive plan.

Christ, the life of his spiritual body, and the life-giver, remains the same in all ages. Hence
the church body is the part that has been disrupted and corrupted by apostasy and sectarianism,
and is therefore the sphere of reformatory effort. And while reformation pertains to historical
Christianity, it implies, as we have already shown, a return to the primitive standard. Therefore,
before proceeding to describe particularly the present reformation, we must give attention
to the constitution of the apostolic church, the divine original.

PART I

The Church in Apostolic Days

=The Last Reformation=

CHAPTER I

THE CHURCH DEFINED

[Sidenote: The term "church"]

The word "church" as used in the New Testament is, in most cases, derived from the Greek word
ekklesia. The component parts of this word literally mean to summon or call together in public
convocation. It was, therefore, used to designate any popular assembly which met for the transaction
of public business. As an example of the secular use of the term, see Acts 19: 32, 39. This
particular application of the word, however, does not here concern us.

Since the word ekklesia conveys the idea of an assembly of "called ones," it expresses beautifully
the Christian's call to churchly association. The divine call of believers is frequently expressed
in the New Testament: they are "called with an holy calling" (2 Tim. 1:9); "called in one body"
(Col. 3:15); "called unto his kingdom and glory" (1 Thess. (1 Pet. 2:9). While these texts
and many others describe the exalted rights and privileges accorded the "called ones," there
is distinctly implied the idea of their organic association, and it was this association that
constituted them the Christian church. And the term "church" in its religious usage is given
two significations. In its largest and primary signification, the church of God is the entire
body of regenerated persons in all times and places, and is in this respect identical with
the spiritual kingdom of God, the divine family. In a secondary sense, church designates an
individual assembly in which the universal church takes local and temporary form and in which
the idea of the general church is concretely exhibited. Besides these two significations of
the Christian term "church," there are, properly speaking, no other in the New Testament. It
is true that ekklesia is sometimes used as a collective term to denote the body of local churches
existing in a given region, but there is no evidence that these churches were bound together
in groups by any outward organization which separated or distinguished them from other congregations
of the general church. Therefore this use of the term "church" can not be regarded as adding
any new sense to those of the general church and the local church already referred to.

CHAPTER II

THE UNIVERSAL CHURCH

Matt. 16:18 introduces in the gospel history the subject of the church. Jesus said, "I will
build my church; and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it." This text implies that
the church as an institution was not yet founded, and it also clearly implies that Christ himself
was to be the founder and builder of his church.

Jesus had already preached that the kingdom of heaven was at hand, and when he sent forth his
twelve apostles he commanded them to preach and say, "The kingdom of heaven is at hand." Jesus
himself taught the doctrines of the kingdom, but in the words of our text there is implied
deeper ideas of the kingdom of God yet to be revealed in all their fulness of meaning.

[Sidenote: The body of Christ]

We should divest our minds, temporarily at least, of preconceived ideas of formal church organization
and earnestly seek to understand the real signification of that church of which Christ was
himself personally the founder. The church, then, is the body of Christ. Of this body Jesus
himself is the head. "And he is the head of the body, the church ... that in all things he
might have the preeminence" (Col. 1:18). "For his body's sake, which is the church" (verse
24). Christ is head of but one body. "There is one body" (Eph. 4:4). In these texts the body
and the church are used interchangeably, referring to one and the same thing.

[Sidenote: The atonement its procuring cause]

It is therefore to Calvary that we must look for the specific act by virtue of which Christ
personally became the founder of his church. There it was "purchased with his own blood." There
we find the application of those sublime words of the Savior, "And I, if I be lifted up from
the earth, will draw all men UNTO ME" (John 12: 32). By virtue of that act, God "put all things
under his feet, and gave him to be the head over all things to the church." Yea, by virtue
of that act, "God also hath highly exalted him, and given him a name which is above every name:
that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow,... and that every tongue should confess" (Phil.
2:9-11).

The church, then, proceeds from Calvary: Pentecost was but its initial manifestation to men
and its dedication for service. Of this we shall have more to say hereafter.

[Sidenote: Composed of true Christians]

Since through his death Christ proposed to draw all men unto him, it is evident that all the
members of Christ are therefore members of his body, the church. To this agrees the words of
the apostle Paul, "For as we have many members in one body, and all members have not the same
office: so we [true Christians], being many, are one body in Christ, and every one members
one of another" (Rom. 12: 4, 5).

[Sidenote: Mode of admission]

Becoming a member of the spiritual body of Christ is necessarily a spiritual operation. Men
may admit members to a formal church relationship, but only the Spirit of God can make us members
of Christ. This text does not refer to literal water-baptism, but to the work of the "Spirit,"
by whom we are inducted into Christ. "God hath set the members every one of them in the body"
(verse 18). And since this is the work of the Spirit, it is evident that none but the saved
can possibly find admittance into the spiritual body of Christ. Under a different figure Jesus
conveys the same truth. "I am the door: by me if any man enter in, he shall be saved" (John
10: 9). "And the Lord added to them day by day those that were being saved" (Acts 2:47, R.V.).
Salvation, then, is the condition of membership.

[Sidenote: Family relationship]

The members of Christ are members of God's family. How do we become members of the divine family?
"Except a man be born again, he can not see the kingdom of God" (John 3:3). "As many as received
him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God ... which were born ... of God" (John
1:12, 13). "Beloved, now are we the sons of God" (1 John 3:2).

We have spoken of the union of all believers with Christ when he draws them unto himself and
becomes their spiritual life. But this unity of all believers with Christ is a spiritual relationship
and experience not to be confused with external things. The Bible speaks of Christians as being
"in Christ." What does this mean? It certainly means to be "born again," for without that experience
we "can not see the kingdom of God" (John 3:3). "Whosoever abideth in him sinneth not: whosoever
sinneth hath not seen him, neither known him" (1 John 3:6).

[Sidenote: Unity of believers]

But our union with Christ, by which we become members of the divine family, necessarily fixes
our relationship with all those who are members of Christ. If, through salvation, we are brought
into a sacred unity with Christ, we are by the same act brought into essential unity and fellowship
with the members of Christ. This the Word distinctly affirms: "We, being many, are one body
in Christ, and every one members one of another" (Rom. 12: 4, 5). While this last text relates
literally to the physical body, the apostle applies it in an illustrative way to the spiritual
body. "Now ye are the body of Christ, and members in particular" (verse 27).

[Sidenote: Unity and uniformity]

Harmony in a normal physical body is not effected by external means, but is organic. The members
may be many and diverse, but they are all necessary and have their respective places and work.
So also with the body of Christ. Union with Christ is not dependent upon absolute uniformity
except in the one thing--the fundamental experience by which we are made members of Christ.
In the apostolic period the children of God who loved our Lord and were known of him were not
all of one age or size or nationality. They had not all enjoyed the same social advantages,
nor had they had the same intellectual attainments. The act of receiving Christ and his salvation
did not perfect their knowledge; therefore they had to be patiently taught in order to bring
them into the "unity of the faith." And for this purpose divinely chosen instructors were appointed,
who must themselves "study" and give careful attention to "doctrine" (Eph. 4:11-14; 1 Tim.
3:13-16). But the gospel penetrates beneath the surface; it goes straight to the heart and
reaches fundamental things.

The unity of believers with Christ is, therefore, based on divine relationship, and this is
the fundamental basis of the true relationship of believers with each other. In order to maintain
spiritual relationship with Christ and his people, the Christian must have an obedient heart
and "walk in the light of the Lord"; but we should always be ready to extend our fellowship
to those whom Christ really receives and approves.

How prone men have ever been to ignore this simple, divine standard and set up arbitrary rules
of their own by which to measure others! This wrong tendency combined with the carnal ambitions
of men who love to parade their own unscriptural ideas before the world and gain adherents
has been the real cause of the disunion of Christians. But the Bible standard is what we are
now considering. It teaches that the saved people were "members one of another" as well as
members of Christ; that they were, in fact, "all one in Christ Jesus."

[Sidenote: Unity a practical reality]

According to the New Testament standard, unity of believers is more than an invisible, intangible,
spiritual fellowship. They are "members one of another" as well as members of Christ. That
unity was designed to be visible and to form a convincing sign to the world of the mighty power
of Christ. This stands out prominently in that notable prayer of our Lord recorded in John
17, which was uttered on the most solemn night of his earthly life. (verses 20, 21).

Such unity is a real standard. It will convince the world. Love, as an inward affection, produces
deeds and results, and is measured thereby. And just as love to God invariably produces union
with God, so also true love to man will result in unity. (1 John 3:18). Carnal divisions can
not exist where true love reigns.

[Sidenote: Christ died for unity]

For this visible unity Christ prayed--"That they all may be one,... that the world may believe."
More than this, he died that unity might be effected. John 11:52 clearly shows that one purpose
of Christ's death was that "he should gather together in one the children of God that were
scattered abroad." Therefore unity of believers is a sacred truth resting on the solid basis
of the atonement. That this unity is more than that general union resulting from the personal
attachment of separate individuals to Christ as a common center, is proved by the fact that
it is designed to gather together in one the scattered children of God. Jesus himself said,
"Other sheep I have [Gentiles], which are not of this [Jewish] fold: them also I must bring,
and they shall hear my voice; and THERE SHALL BE ONE FOLD [flock] AND ONE SHEPHERD" (John 10:16).

[Sidenote: Jew and Gentile united]

Broadly speaking, there were at that time but two classified divisions of men--Jews and Gentiles.
Jesus predicted that his sheep from both sections should be brought together into one flock.
In the second chapter of Ephesians, Paul tells us how this was accomplished. "For he is our
peace, who hath made both [Jews and Gentiles] ONE, and hath broken down the middle wall of
partition between us ... that he might reconcile both unto God in one body by the cross" (verses
12-16). (verses 19-22).

On account of the high standard of unity set forth in his epistles, Paul has been branded an
idealist. But what shall we say of Christ who prayed for such visible unity and died for it?
An idealist is one who forms picturesque fancies, one given to romantic expectations impossible
of accomplishment. The idealist usually has but few practical results. But Paul accomplished
things. He broke away from his Jewish prejudices, which brought down upon his head the wrath
of his fellows. He went into the synagogs of the Jews and brought out those who were willing
to become disciples of Jesus. To build up the work of the Lord he labored night and day with
tears; he laid broad and deep the very foundations of the Christian faith in heathen lands.
Within a very few years he established Christian churches in four provinces of the Roman Empire--churches
in which Jew and Gentile met together in common fellowship, in one body. If this is idealism,
Lord, give us many more such idealists.

[Sidenote: The burden of Paul's ministry]

But the unity described by Paul in the epistles which he wrote late in life is not given as
a mere ideal standard for the future toward which men should strive. It is given as the record
of a historic fact, the accomplishment of which lay at the very foundation of Paul's call to
the ministry.

In the second chapter of Ephesians, already quoted, Paul declares that both Jews and Gentiles
were reconciled to God in one body by the cross. In the next chapter he shows his part in the
accomplishment of that end. First, he was called of God as the apostle of the Gentiles; then
by revelation was made known unto him "the mystery of Christ which in other ages was not made
known unto the sons of men ... that the Gentiles should be fellow heirs, and OF THE SAME BODY,
and partakers of his promise in Christ by the gospel" (Eph. 3:4-6). The promise referred to
was doubtless the "promise of the Father," the gift of the Holy Ghost. (Eph. 3: 1-10).

[Sidenote: Was divinely attested]

Paul was given a tremendous task--"TO MAKE ALL MEN SEE" that mystery. This task required from
God "the effectual working of his power" (verse 7).

Paul, then, was divinely commissioned "to make all men see" the mystery of this union of all
classes of men "in one body by the cross" (Eph. 2: 16), all in "the SAME body, and partakers
of his promise in Christ by the gospel" (Eph. 3: 6). And when Paul's career was finished, the
same mystery was given over to others that it might be "known BY THE CHURCH" (verse 10), "the
church, which is his body" (Eph. 1: 22, 23). The ministry, then, should have held the ground
already attained, the actual union of all the saved in one body, and have labored earnestly
"to make all men see" that that body only is the church. As we have already shown, the one
specific personal act by virtue of which Christ became the founder of the church was his atonement
on Calvary, where the church was "purchased with his own blood" (Acts 20: 28). The church,
then, as an institution, resulted from the atonement. Paul, describing the union of Jews and
Gentiles in one body, the church, declares that it was effected "by the cross" (Eph. 2: 16).

There was power in redemption. It brought into the lives of believers forces that could not
but unite them in social compact. It threw them together in living sympathy and united their
hearts firmly in the strong bonds of brotherly love. Their outward organic union as a church
was the natural and inevitable result of this inward life and love.

[Sidenote: Local church defined]

By the impartation of spiritual life to believers and by the agency of the Holy Spirit operating
in the apostles as special agents appointed to do his work, Christ built his church on earth.
There was a building of the church, then, which pertained specifically to its local and visible
development among men. The expression "I will build" indicates the transcendent element, the
divine element, in church organization. This being true, it follows that the local church was
not merely an aggregate of individuals accidently gathered together, but was the local, concrete
embodiment of the spiritual body of Christ; the unified company of regenerated persons who,
as a body, were dedicated to Christ, acknowledged of Christ, and used by Christ through the
Holy Spirit for the accomplishment of his work. Jerusalem furnishes the first example, dating
from Pentecost (Acts 2).

[Sidenote: Particular example: Corinth]

That this is, generally speaking, the Scriptural definition of a local church of God, is further
shown by another particular example. Paul addressed two of his epistles "to the church of God
which is at Corinth" (1 Cor. 1: 2; 2 Cor. 1: 1). As individuals they are called "saints" and
"brethren," but collectively as a church they are called "the church of God" and referred to
as "God's building" (1 Cor. 3: 9). And the apostle says to them, "Know ye not that ye are a
temple of God, and that the Spirit of God dwelleth in you?" (verse 16, R.V.). They had been
inducted by the Spirit into the "one body," and they were filled with the gifts of the Spirit--wisdom,
knowledge, faith, healing, miracles, prophecy, discernment, and tongues (chap. 12). In fact,
the apostle said, "Ye come behind in no gift" (chap. 1: 7). And he said particularly, "Ye are
the body of Christ" (chap. 12: 27).

A true local church, then, was the concrete embodiment of the spiritual body of Christ in a
given place. It was the body of Christ because it was made up of the people of God, manifested
the power of God, was the repository of the truth of God, was filled with the gifts of the
Spirit of God, and was actually used by the Spirit in performing the works of God. Such characteristics
made it "the church of God."

[Sidenote: Local membership]

Membership in the general body of Christ was conditioned solely on the new birth, or salvation.
Since the individual church was the local embodiment of the general church, none but the saved
could properly become members thereof, and all who were truly saved (in the same locality)
belonged to it by divine right. At this point, however, the human element in the constitution
of the local church became manifest. We have pointed out the divine element in the true church--the
element that particularly distinguished it as the church of God, but the bringing together
of many individuals in one assembly involved also a social element and required the principle
of recognition. There is, however, no evidence that such recognition was given by a formal,
official act of the church in its corporate capacity. And since salvation is of the heart,
it was possible for human recognition to temporarily miss its true purpose. Thus, in the church
at Jerusalem we find recognized as a constituent part of the assembly two false members--Ananias
and Sapphira. On the other hand, when the converted Saul "was come to Jerusalem, he essayed
to join himself to the disciples: but they were all afraid of him, and believed not that he
was a disciple" (Acts 9: 26). The church at Corinth, already referred to, had some false members
at the time the Pauline epistles were written. The church at Samaria also tolerated for a time
one whose "heart was not right in the sight of God" (Acts 8).

[Sidenote: A holy church]

Since the local church was designed to exhibit concretely the spiritual body of Christ, none
but saved persons could properly hold membership therein; therefore the local church when in
its normal condition was free from sin and sinners. The physical body, which Paul uses to illustrate
the spiritual body, is normal only when every member possesses the life of the body and functions
properly. So also was the body of Christ. It was not God's will that there should be (as recognized
members) "sinners in the congregation of the righteous" (Psa. 1: 5). (Isa. 4:3,4).

[Sidenote: Discernment and judgement necessary]

The local congregation in Jerusalem did not cease to be the church of God because two unworthy
persons obtained recognition in it. This incident gave occasion for the church to manifest
its inherent life by its ability to discern and then cast off the secret offenders just as
a healthy physical body casts off effete matter. (verse 14).

A clean, pure local church was the divine standard. It is evident that such could never be
obtained and maintained except by the power of the Holy Spirit, who discerned evil and prompted
its elimination. Peter discerned the condition of the two false members in the church at Jerusalem
and removed that blemish. He also exposed the hypocrisy of Simon at Samaria, and Paul pointed
out the evil affection in the church at Corinth and directed its removal. Chief responsibility
for the maintenance of the normal condition of the church will be considered in our discussion
of the particular features of church organization and government.

[Sidenote: Apostasy possible]

We have shown the characteristic, spiritual features of a New Testament congregation in its
normal condition; also the possibility of deviation from that standard. A practical question
is, How far could such a congregation lapse into an abnormal state and still be a church of
God? Or, Can a church as a body backslide? The church at Ephesus evidently was on the verge
of such an apostasy. (Rev. 2: 4, 5). So also the church at Laodicea. So then because thou art
luke warm, and neither cold nor hot, I will spew thee out of my mouth" (Rev. 3: 15, 16).

[Sidenote: The line of distinction]

The physical body may experience the mutilation of some of its members and still survive, but
there is a limit beyond which death will ensue. So also the spiritual body may survive the
encumbrance of a few false members. From the general facts and principles already adduced,
however, we may safely assert that a local church is a church of God only so long as it is
able to function properly as a body. As long as the Spirit of God is in the ascendency, so
that the people of God as a body manifest the power of God, maintain the truth of God, are
filled with the Spirit of God, and are actually used by the Spirit in performing the works
of God, so long they are the church of God. Whenever another spirit gains the ascendency and
the divine, spiritual characteristics are lost to view, then is brought to pass the saying
that is written, "I will spew thee out of my mouth." Such dead congregations are no longer
a part of the true church and are unworthy of the recognition of spiritual congregations.

CHAPTER IV

THE ORGANIZATION AND GOVERNMENT OF THE CHURCH

[Sidenote: The fact of organization]

We have already shown that the words of Christ "I will build my church" have a deeper meaning
than the simple preaching of the kingdom. They imply the formation of an organized structure
against which even the gates of hell should not prevail. They can signify nothing less than
the visible establishment of the church among men as the concrete embodiment of the divine
kingdom or family. The church, then, as made up of local congregations, is an institution of
divine appointment. This is shown by the words of Christ in Matt. 18: 17, according to which
it sometimes becomes necessary in admonishing and disciplining trespassers to "tell it unto
the church"; and the appellation "church of God" is frequently applied to individual congregations
(1 Cor. 1: 2, et al.).

Many teachers hold that Christ did not build a church and that the "form of church organization
is not definitely prescribed in the New Testament, but is a matter of expediency, every body
of believers being permitted to adopt that method of organization which best suits its circumstances
and condition." Such is the Protestant view put forth by those who seek an excuse for the modern
system of sect-building. The incorrectness of this theory is easily shown. First, as we shall
see, it underestimates the need of divine direction in church relationship and ignores well-established
facts in the New Testament history. Secondly, if it proves anything, it proves too much; for
to admit such a principle of "church powers" is to admit that the papacy and every other human
system of church control is justified--systems which can be historically shown to be subversive
of the church as a spiritual body.

That the church was actually organized into local assemblies in apostolic days is abundantly
shown by the New Testament record. They had regular meetings at stated times (Heb. 10:25; Acts
20:7; I Cor. 16:12); officers (Acts 20:28; 1 Pet. 5:2; Eph. 4:11, 12); recognized authority
(1 Tim. 5:17; Heb. 13:17); discipline (1 Cor. 5:13; 2 Thess. 3:6, 10-14); a system of contributions
(1 Cor. 16:1, 2); ordinances (Acts 20:7; 1 Cor. 10:16; 11: 23-29); a common work, etc. On one
occasion Paul instructed Titus to "set in order the things that are wanting, and ordain elders
in every city" (Tit. 1:5).

[Sidenote: By whom effected]

The words of Jesus "I will build my church" point us to the Christ as its real founder. Since
the life and genius of the church is the superhuman element, which element must at all times
be given precedence over mere outward forms and human characteristics, and since this life
proceeds from Christ as the Redeemer of men, therefore in all fundamental aspects he is the
personal founder of the church. But more than this, working by proxy, Jesus gave even external
form to his church, employing for this purpose his chosen apostles, to whom he gave special
instruction and authority. Even during his personal ministry Jesus performed some of his work
by proxy. It is expressly stated that he baptized many (John 3: 22; 4: 1), and yet explanation
is made that "Jesus himself baptized not, but his disciples" (John 4: 2).

So also in the organization of the church. The germ of that organization existed during Christ's
personal ministry. Doctrine was given, ministers preached, baptism was administered, and people
believed, but this embryonic organization could not be completely established as a church before
the outpouring of the Holy Spirit. Therefore provision was made for its progressive development
under the tutelage of specially inspired apostles. Doctrine was given gradually, yet invariably
through the oral and written teaching of these inspired apostles. Therefore we can not but
believe that the same invariable guidance of the Holy Spirit also perfected through them God's
own plan of church organization and work. The gradual development of church organization under
the labors of the apostles, therefore, no more proves the theory of a constant historic development
than does the fact of a gradual unfolding of the Christian faith and doctrine by the apostles
prove a constant and unending revelation of the gospel through all succeeding ages. One writer
has well said, "The same promise of the Spirit which renders the New Testament an unerring
and sufficient rule of faith renders it also an unerring and sufficient rule of practise for
the church in all places and times." We must therefore regard the organization of the church,
as we do the unfolding of the gospel message, as complete in all its fundamental and essential
aspects before the close of the sacred canon.

[Sidenote: Apostolic agency]

There is no doubt that the apostles occupied a special place in the divine establishment of
the church and its message. 2: 20). 1: 21). Moses, representative of the law, and Elias, representative
of the prophets, appeared in glory on the Mount of Transfiguration; but when Peter suggested
that they be accorded equal honors with Jesus, immediately a cloud overshadowed the company
and a voice out of the cloud said, "This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased; HEAR
YE HIM." "And when they had lifted up their eyes, they saw no man, save Jesus only" (Matt. 17:1-8).

[Sidenote: Model for all ages]

The revelation of divine truth, therefore, as the foundation of our faith, reached its highest
level in the Son. We need not look for another gospel--hear him. He has also said, "I will
build my church"; hence we need not look for another church--HEAR HIM! See Eph. 2; 3:1-10.
While therefore Christ was the author of the truth in its highest form of revelation, also
the founder of his church, both reached their fulness of perfection under the inspired apostles
and was by them "made known to all nations for the obedience of faith." The unity of all believers
for which Christ solemnly prayed was to be accomplished through the direct agency of the apostles,
the result of believing on Christ "through THEIR Word" (John 17:20). (Eph. 2: 6, 7). The unified
church of the apostolic day is therefore the divine model for all succeeding ages.

[Sidenote: Paul's relation thereto]

Since the first apostles were employed as special agents in establishing the perfected New
Testament church, Paul's connection therewith is of particular importance. Paul was not one
of the original twelve, yet he exerted a tremendous influence in that period and was undoubtedly
one of the chief agents used in establishing the church and fixing its external form and character.

Many believe that Paul belonged among the twelve as the real successor of Judas. According
to this view, the election of Matthias to the apostleship was without divine sanction, being
proposed by the impetuous Peter, who, before the descent of the Holy Ghost, often proposed
inadvised things. Strength is given this view by the oft-repeated assertion of Paul that he
was an apostle, "not of men, neither by men, but by Jesus Christ" (Gal. 1: 1). We are not forced
to that conclusion concerning Matthias, however. In writing the Acts of the Apostles, Luke
the companion of Paul, records the appointment of Matthias without intimating that it was a
mistake. In Scripture usage a certain parallelism is maintained between the twelve apostles
of the Lamb and the twelve tribes of the children of Israel. When we recall that there were
literally thirteen tribes in Israel, Ephriam and Manasseh standing for Joseph, we need not
be surprized that there should be literally thirteen foundational apostles in the Christian
church, Matthias and Paul standing, as it were, in the place of Judas.

There can be no doubt that Paul really ranked with the Twelve. He was a "chosen vessel," the
"apostle of the Gentiles." Although as one "born out of due time," he himself saw Jesus and
from him received the entire gospel by direct revelation. Consequently the other apostles possessed
no advantage over him. He himself says, "The gospel which was preached of me was not after
man. For I neither received it of man, neither was I taught it, but by the revelation of Jesus
Christ" (Gal. 1:11, 12). He "was not a whit behind the very chiefest apostles" (2 Cor. 11:5).
And it was through Paul particularly that the revelation of the "mystery" was made complete--"that
both Jews and Gentiles should be fellow heirs and of the SAME body," and he was commissioned
"to make all men see" it.

The general church was, therefore, made up of various local congregations, which were "set
in order" by apostolic authority. The essential nature of this organization is determined by
the object for which these congregations were formed, the conditions of membership therein,
and the kind of laws by which they were governed.

[Sidenote: Nature of its organization]

The primary object for which the local church was formed was the establishment and extension
of the kingdom of God among men. A secondary object was the encouragement and mutual edification
of the believers themselves, which was best obtained by united worship in prayer, exhortation,
praise, thanksgiving, and religious instruction.

We have already noted the conditions of membership in the local church. None but those who
were already members of the body of Christ could properly be recognized as members in a congregation
which was designed by Christ to exhibit in local and temporary form the true idea of the church
universal. According to this standard of membership, every individual owed allegiance directly
to Christ himself as the great head of the church. Christ was the only lawgiver. The relation
of the individual to the local church, then, did not in any sense supersede his personal relations
to Christ, but simply strengthened and further expressed this higher relationship.

In this standard of church-membership is found the secret of the union in one body of all apostolic
Christians. The standard was personal relationship to Christ, and this relationship could be
obtained only by an experience of salvation and humble obedience to the law of Christ. Therefore
all the truly saved were members of Christ and members of each other. This standard being the
same for all, it led to absolute equality among members.

The law of the church, as already stated, was simply "the law of Christ"; first as delivered
orally by specially inspired apostles, and afterwards expressed by them in the Christian Scriptures.

[Sidenote: Organization and government]

The closest relationship necessarily existed between the organization of the church and its
method of government. It is impossible for us to get a clear conception of either independently
of the other; and in order to understand the subject at all, we must bear in mind the fundamental
nature of the church itself, what it was and what it was designed to accomplish. The church
was not, as we have seen, a mere aggregate of individuals that happened to gather or that assembled
for ordinary purposes. A social club or a business organization would have possessed all those
features. The church was the body of Christ, the body to which he gave spiritual life and through
which he designed to manifest his power and glory. Hence its visible organization was secondary,
merely incidental as the means for the accomplishment of those higher ends involved in the
transcendental element of the church. The relation of the divine and the human characteristics
was, therefore, the relation of soul and body--Christ, the soul; redeemed humanity, the body.
The establishment of this relationship was the manifestation to the world of the "body of Christ."
It was organization of the church.

From the foregoing considerations, we are certain that in the apostolic church the real emphasis
was placed on life and that the governmental power and authority of the church was derived
from its divine life in Christ and not from its organization. Apostolic church government was,
therefore, more than the adoption of some particular form of external organization and administration.

[Sidenote: Divine administration]

The origin of the church was divine. Jesus said, "I will build my church." And though, as we
have seen, he employed human agents in its completion, these agents were so specially inspired
and directed by Christ through the Holy Spirit that it was in reality his work. Jesus was not
only the initial founder of the church, but he was its permanent head and governor. Isaiah,
predicting the coming of Christ, declares that "the government shall be upon HIS shoulder"
(Isa. 9:6). He it was who called and commissioned Paul and then personally directed his ministerial
labors (Acts 26:13-19; 16:6-9). He it was who walked in the midst of the seven golden candlesticks,
encouraging or reproving the congregations of Asia (Rev. 1:17, et seq.). He is "alive forever
more" (Rev. 1:18); "the same yesterday, and today, and forever" (Heb. 13: 8); "upholding all
things by the word of his power" (Heb. 1:3). "To him be glory in the church ... throughout
all ages, world without end. Amen" (Eph. 3:21).

[Sidenote: Christ the living head]

Thus, the general nature of church government was an absolute monarchy, or, to use a better
term, a theocracy. Christ was king and lawgiver, governor and administrator. Whoever the instruments
employed in carrying out his purposes, whatever the scope of their particular activities, all
were governed directly by Christ through the Holy Spirit. It was his church. He was its living
head. No other church was known in those days. It was only when the living, vital union of
Christ with his church was lost to view that men began endeavoring to strengthen the bonds
of external union by unscriptural human organization, just as when life is departed from the
physical body we seek by an embalming process to prevent its speedy dissolution.

[Sidenote: Delegated authority]

In order to understand church government, therefore, we must begin at the central source of
authority and proceed to its varied manifestations. We have seen that Christ employed human
agents in accomplishing his work; hence, in thus performing the work of Christ as commanded
by Christ, and as personally directed by the Spirit of Christ, these men possessed the authority
of Christ. Any church governmental authority that does not proceed directly from Christ through
his Holy Spirit is but human authority, an usurped authority, and has no place in the real
church of Christ.

[Sidenote: Ministerial oversight]

The apostles were the first to whom Christ delegated authority. They became his special representatives.
They established the church and became responsible for its general direction and oversight,
"the Lord working with them, and confirming the word with signs following" (Mark 16:20). But
these twelve did not stand alone in the government of the church. Soon a host of ministers
were raised up, and these also possessed divine authority for their representative lines of
work. Peter also writes: "The elders which are among you I exhort ... feed the flock of God
which is among you, taking the oversight thereof" (1 Pet. 5:1, 2). "The Holy Ghost said, Separate
me Barnabas and Saul for the work whereunto I have called them ... so they, being sent forth
by the Holy Ghost, departed" (Acts 13: 2-4). In accordance with this standard, we read, "Obey
them that have the rule over you, and submit yourselves: for they watch for your souls, as
they that must give account" to him who is "that great shepherd of the sheep" (Heb. 13:17,
20). The ministers were under-shepherds appointed to feed the flock of God, for which service
they had to give account to the great Shepherd.

The foregoing scriptures and many others show conclusively that, while in the apostolic church
spiritual oversight was, in general, vested in the ministry, it did not originate with them;
that it did not proceed from the general body of believers by a majority vote or by conference
appointment; but that it came by the Holy Spirit direct from the great head of the church,
who alone determined the general bounds of that authority and responsibility. This ministry,
or presbytery, consisted of two classes--local ministers and general ministers. Before proceeding
from this general classification to a discussion of the more specific duties and responsibilities
of the individual ministers comprising this presbytery, I shall call attention briefly to the
geographical distribution of their work as a body.

[Sidenote: Local and general phase]

We have already shown that the church in its visible phase was made up of various local congregations
"set in order" by apostolic authority. So far as their own local affairs were concerned, these
congregations were autonomous. When a matter was purely local, such as the financial oversight
and ministration in the church at Jerusalem, the local congregation itself determined the course
of action and (excepting that class of officials who were divinely chosen) who should be appointed
to oversee it. In the Jerusalem example cited, the apostles suggested, "Look ye out among you
seven men," etc., "and the saying pleased the whole multitude: and they chose" the proper persons
for that work (Acts 6:1-5).

But while these congregations possessed such autonomy and were distributed over a wide territory,
they were not in all respects independent, isolated units. As members of Christ sharing in
a common life and engaged in a common cause, they were bound together in one brotherhood by
ties of fellowship and love. In addition to the union of separate individuals in one locality
under the care of the local presbytery, the local congregations themselves were brought into
close, sympathetic relationship with one another through the labors and influence of those
general ministers who were not attached to particular churches, but whose gifts, callings,
and qualifications fitted them for general service throughout the various congregations. The
responsibility and authority of these general ministers varied in accordance with their own
gifts and qualifications and the degree of development attained by the churches among which
they labored. In the case of infant churches, it is evident that oversight was of the apostolic
kind--direct and immediate. But whenever they became thoroughly established, the principle
of local autonomy was recognized and the relation of the general ministers to such congregations
was evangelistic rather than apostolic--helpers and advisors, not administrative directors.

[Sidenote: Geographical distribution]

That the foregoing analysis is correct is abundantly proved by the history of events in the
Acts respecting the geographical distribution of the churches and their relation to one another.
Jerusalem was the original seat of Christianity. Isaiah prophesied, "Out of Zion shall go forth
the law, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem" (Isa. 2:3). (Luke 24:47). (Acts 1:8). Philip
went from Jerusalem to Samaria and there preached Christ with great success. (Acts 8:14). Later
we read that when churches had been established throughout all Judea and Galilee and Samaria,
"it came to pass, as Peter passed throughout all quarters, he came down also to the saints
which dwelt at Lydda" (Acts 9: 31, 32). It was while he was on this general tour visiting the
churches that he came to Joppa and there received the vision which led him to the household
of Cornelius, after which he came to Jerusalem and was there called to account for his action
in visiting the uncircumcised Gentiles.

There is no doubt that there was exerted from Jerusalem a general care over the surrounding
churches. Some of the disciples who were scattered from Jerusalem at the time of persecution,
went as far as Cyprus and Antioch, preaching the word, and many believed and turned to the
Lord. "Then tidings of these things came unto the ears of the church which was in Jerusalem:
and they sent forth Barnabas that he should go as far as Antioch" (Acts 11: 19-22). Barnabas
went to Antioch and there found such a splendid work that he departed at once for Tarsus seeking
Saul, and together they returned to Antioch and preached for a whole year.

[Sidenote: Operative centers]

While this principle of general superintendence of infant churches originated with the apostles
themselves, it was extended to others who were not of the first apostles. Barnabas and Saul
were successful at Antioch and there established the first Christian community outside the
confines of Judaism, as the result of which Antioch became the seat of Gentile Christianity.
Shortly afterwards "certain prophets and teachers" in the church at Antioch, men who were not
of the original apostles, were directed by the Holy Ghost to send forth Barnabas and Saul on
their first missionary journey, and they went forth establishing local churches and afterwards
setting them in order by ordaining elders, after which these ministers returned to Antioch,
gathered the church together, and gave them a report of their work. Antioch was, therefore,
an operative center.

At a later time Paul established the truth in Ephesus, the chief city of Proconsular Asia.
(Acts 19:10). Thessalonica in Macedonia and Corinth in Achaia are other examples of the kind.

[Sidenote: Regional units]

The work of the church naturally fell into these geographical units; therefore the word "church"
is sometimes used as a collective term designating a body of regional congregations. The church
"throughout all Judea and Galilee and Samaria" (Acts 9:31), "the seven churches which are in
Asia" (Rev. 1:11), "the churches of Macedonia" (2 Cor. 8:1), "the churches of Galatia" (1 Cor.
16:1).

We must bear in mind, however, that this regional concept of the church was not an integral
part of fundamental apostolic church government, but was merely incidental, the result of geographical
location. In fundamental analysis distinctions are always drawn between things that are different,
not between things of the same kind. These regional churches were not different kinds of churches;
they were not bound together in separate groups by an external organization which placed a
wall between them and other congregations of the saints. There was no authority here for the
national-church theory nor for the sectarian church idea. Geographical separation there was,
but not denominationalism.

[Sidenote: Common bond of unity]

We have already shown from Paul's writings that under his ministry both Jews and Gentiles were
united in one body, "the same body." That these regional units to which we have referred were
no denial of this clear truth, but that collectively they constituted one body, is further
shown by the indications we have of their operative unity. Notwithstanding the poor facilities
for communication and travel in those days, which made general cooperation very difficult,
and notwithstanding the fact that the record of historic Christianity in the Acts is exceedingly
brief, we have, nevertheless, clear proof that there was cooperation throughout the apostolic
church. Two instances, one of a business nature, the other ecclesiastical, establish this point.
The churches of at least three provinces of the Roman Empire--Galatia, Macedonia, and Achaia--united
under Paul's direction in establishing a weekly financial system, the immediate object of which
was to assist in accomplishing a particular object in which they were all interested (2 Cor.
8:9; 1 Cor. 16:1-3). The ecclesiastical example is the council of the apostles and elders held
in Jerusalem and recorded in Acts 15. (verse 2).

This was not a general council of the church. No other sections or provinces were represented.
Nor did it meet as a legislative body, even though there were present specially inspired apostles,
to whom had been given the commission to unfold the gospel as an authoritative revelation.
It is clear that the ministers of this council even sought to avoid the legislative function.
"For it seemed good to the Holy Ghost, and to us, to lay upon you no greater burden than these
necessary things" (verse 28). While this incident does not prove an administrative human headship
of the whole church centralized at Jerusalem, it does prove that the individual congregations
were not isolated units, but that they had respect for, and sought the advice and counsel of,
older established congregations, and particularly of those general ministers whose gifts, qualifications,
and reputation fitted them for general care of all the churches.

When we consider the divine nature of the church's organization, with the ever-living Christ
working mightily in all his ministers and through them in particular administering its government,
we can see that the entire church was necessarily one body joined together in a common fellowship
and actually laboring together in the performance of common tasks.

[Sidenote: Bishop and elder]

The presbytery, to whom was given particular oversight and government of the church, was set
apart by the Holy Ghost for this special work. Different terms, such as "elder" and "bishop,"
were used to designate this office. The term "bishop," which literally means overseer, implies
the duties of the office, while "elder" denotes its rank. That these terms were used interchangeably
and applied to the same order of persons is proved by Acts 20:28 (cf. 17); Phil. 1:1; 1 Tim.
3:1, 8; Tit. 1:5, 7; 1 Pet. 5:1, 2. This was admitted by many early writers, as Jerome, Augustine,
Urban II, Petrus Lombardus, Chrysostom, Theodoret, and others.

From the general classification already given, let us proceed to the specific. This body was
made up of elders or bishops. The fact that the terms "elder" and "bishop" were applied to
all the presbyters shows equality of rank; that the office was one. We find, however, that
these elders as individuals were diversified in their gifts and callings in accordance with
the specific work which the Holy Ghost designed them to perform. Under one classification there
were, broadly speaking, two kinds of elders--local and general; that is, those whose sphere
of operation was particularly local and those whose influence, work, and responsibility extended
beyond any congregational limitation. This distinction was not made arbitrarily, however; for
it was essential to the performance of the twofold class of work to be done and was the inevitable
result of that operation of the Spirit in individual ministers which fitted them particularly
for these distinctive lines of activity.

[Sidenote: Divine gifts]

To be still more specific, we must go a step farther and consider the reason why and the process
by which ministers became differentiated from other saints. In this we shall find the inner
secret, both of particular spiritual organization and of divine church government. These texts
suggest more than a mere attachment to the body: they imply functional activity in the body.
The functions of the body as described by Paul means the exercise of spiritual gifts. "Now
there are diversities of gifts, but the same Spirit ... there are diversities of operations,
but it is the same God which worketh all in all. But the manifestation of the Spirit is given
to every man to profit withal. (1 Cor. 12: 4-11).

[Sidenote: Basis of ministerial authority]

The foregoing scripture is a mere enumeration of the gifts that God implanted in the church
as a body. The more particular application of these gifts and their relation to church organization
and government are given further on in the same chapter. Are all apostles? are all prophets?
are all teachers? are all workers of miracles? have all the gifts of healing? do all speak
with tongues? do all interpret? But covet earnestly the best gifts" (verses 27-31).

Comparison of verses 4 to 11 with verses 27 to 31 of the chapter just quoted shows conclusively
that one is the counterpart of the other, the latter merely amplifying and explaining the former.
From this clear teaching it is evident that the work of apostleship, of teaching, of governing,
etc., were all based upon and grew out of divine gifts implanted in the heart by the Holy Spirit.

The same truth is taught by Paul in another place.

According to these scriptures, the very governmental positions of the church with their authority
and responsibility were the product of those gifts and qualifications bestowed upon certain
individuals in particular. Such gifts could be legitimately coveted with a view to spiritual
edification of the body (1 Cor. 12:31; 14:12). "If a man desire the office of a bishop, he
desireth a good work" (1 Tim. 3:1). "Helps" doubtless included that class of assistants commonly
called deacons (1 Tim. 3:8-11).

Since in the primitive church organization and government were determined by the divine gifts
and callings possessed by individuals, it is evident that we have in this something totally
different from that later conception of church government as a mere human arrangement. At a
subsequent time, as we shall show, church government was patterned after the forms of political
government in that it was vested inherently in men. Four such forms have been developed--the
imperial, or papal; the episcopal; the presbyterial; and the congregational. While these four
differ in external form, they are all alike in fundamental character, in that they assume that
the governing power rests inherently in men.

None of these forms of government represent the New Testament church. The organization and
government of that church was based upon the charisma, or divine gifts and callings, of individuals
composing the church. The power and authority of an apostle or of an evangelist, for example,
did not rest upon any selection or appointment made by men. The church did not act in a corporate
capacity and confer ecclesiastical power and authority upon any one. All such power and authority
came direct from God through the Holy Spirit, and it was in God's name and by his authority
alone that they acted. The organization of the church was therefore charismatic. If, for example,
the gifts of an apostle were conferred by the Holy Spirit upon an individual, he possessed
apostolic responsibility and authority. The brethren recognized such gifts when these were
evident, and submitted themselves voluntarily to such spiritual leadership and oversight; for
at this period there had not been developed that ecclesiastical system by which human election
and appointment gave positions and authority to men. In fact, we shall clearly show later that
the true church can not be legally organized. Every attempt of men to assume the reins of authority
and give governmental form and administrative direction to the church has been denominational
and sectarian.

[Sidenote: Ordination]

The true church was the whole family of God directed by his Holy Spirit. Ministerial appointment,
with its authority and responsibility, was therefore divine. We have seen that through the
spiritual operation called the new birth, one became a member of Christ, and hence by divine
right belonged to whichever congregation of the church he might be able to associate with;
but that in practical experience, such local membership involved recognition on the part of
the other members. So it was with the divine appointment to the ministry. The only other essential
to its practical operation was simply recognition of that call. Such recognition, in the last
analysis, belonged to the whole church (1 Tim. 3: 2-7; Tit. 1: 6-9), but was given formally
by the laying on of the hands of the presbytery.

[Sidenote: Plurality of local elders]

The development of ministers in an apostolic church was a divine, natural process, the inevitable
result of the emphasis placed on the gifts and callings of the Spirit. This free exercise of
the Spirit's gifts working in the members doubtless accounts for the plurality of ruling elders
found in those local churches. See Acts 14:23; 20:17; Phil. 1:1; 1 Tim. 5:16, 17; Tit. 1:5.
It could not be otherwise as long as the churches were Spirit-filled, working congregations
and the Spirit of God had his way. The system that limited local church government to a one-man
rule originated in the apostasy, after the gifts of the Spirit had died out. It is simply one
part of that great system of human organization that developed the full-grown papacy. Of this
we shall learn more hereafter.

The same principles that developed local ministers produced also ministers of the general class.
While some naturally became "pastors," "teachers," and "helpers" in the local church, particular
gifts and qualifications fitted others for "apostles" and "evangelists," whose particular sphere
was general oversight and work in the churches. The prophet was not limited to either class.

[Sidenote: Apostolic oversight]

As it is not germane to my present purpose, I shall not here attempt to define the various
phases of ministerial work designated by various terms but all included under the one generic
term "elder." The work described by the term "apostle," however, requires brief notice, on
account of its bearing on the subject of church government. The fact that Paul had particular
"care of all the churches" (2 Cor. 11:28) and that he gave special instructions to Timothy
and Titus, other ministers (1 Tim. 5: 21; Tit. 1:5), forms the basis for the episcopacy argument--church
rule by a superior order of clergy called bishops.

"Apostle" literally signifies "a planter." The term belongs specifically to the first founders
of the Christian faith, but is loosely applied in a more general sense to any minister who
plants Christianity in a new territory. It is clear that the first apostles were especially
inspired for a particular work in laying the foundations of the Christian church and in writing
the New Testament Scriptures. Hence the apostolic office in this special sense passed away
with them. But there was, nevertheless, an apostolic work such as planting and overseeing the
infant work in a new field, and in this sense Barnabas also was an apostle (Acts 13:46 with 14:4).

That the word "apostle" really signified a planter and was therefore descriptive of the kind
of work done is shown by the words of Paul himself: "For he that wrought effectually in Peter
to the apostleship of the circumcision, the same was mighty in me toward the Gentiles" (Gal.
2:8). In another place he says to the same church, "Though ye have ten thousand instructors
in Christ, yet have ye not many fathers: for in Christ Jesus I have begotten you through the
gospel" (1 Cor. 4:15).

The special, personal relation that the apostle, or planter, sustained to the work which he
had founded and over which he exercised general jurisdiction, was but temporary, a sort of
fatherly care. He was obliged to oversee the work as a whole, including young ministers, until
it became thoroughly established. After others were able for the work and the apostle's special
oversight was withdrawn, there might be ten thousand other instructors, but no more fathers.
This disproves entirely the episcopal idea as an essential feature of church government. The
apostle Peter even classes himself simply as an elder in common with other elders (1 Pet. 5:1).
But with the exception of the original apostles, who were specially commissioned to reveal
the doctrine and message of the gospel and to establish the Christian faith, the difference
existing between elders in the primitive church was not a difference in kind, but in degree
only, varying in accordance with their ability to put forth some portion of that moral and
spiritual power by which alone Christ governs his church.

PART II

The Church in History

CHAPTER V

CORRUPTION OF EVANGELICAL FAITH

It is not my purpose to write an ecclesiastical history, but in order to make clear the work
of final reformation, it will be necessary to present at least a brief sketch of historic Christianity,
outlining particularly those leading features which show a radical departure from the true
church as originally constituted by our Lord and his apostles.

[Sidenote: "The faith"]

In the days of primitive Christianity there was something called "the gospel," "the truth,"
"the form of sound words," "the faith." To understand its fundamental nature is not difficult,
for it has been preserved and handed down to us in the writings of the New Testament. (Luke
24:47). Around this central fact of salvation from sin through faith in Christ clustered those
other truths and facts which either necessarily resulted from the new relationship of redeemed
humanity with God or were essential to its visible manifestation and propagation. Prominent
among these features were the entire sanctification of believers, holy life and conduct, the
baptism, gifts, and leadership of the Holy Spirit, and the visible unity and relationship of
believers in one body, the church.

[Sidenote: An apostasy foretold]

I need not take time or space to describe the wonderful successes of Christianity as long as
the primitive purity and power of the gospel message was sustained and its results realized
in a living, Spirit-filled church. But facts compel me to record a change from that happy condition.
This transition was foreseen by those who "spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost." (Acts
20:30). Jesus himself declared, "Many false prophets shall arise, and shall deceive many. And
because iniquity shall abound, the love of many shall wax cold" (Matt. 24:11, 12).

Paul gives a more particular description of the coming apostasy in the second chapter of Second
Thessalonians. (verses 3, 4).

The development of the "man of sin," which was occasioned by the "falling away," was to be
gradual, but should finally assume great proportions, "so that he as God sitteth in the temple
of God showing himself that he is God." (verses 7, 8). We should not seek for the fulfilment
of this prediction in those minor sects and heresies which at an early date arose and soon
passed away: the description refers to some great power occupying the greatest prominence,
making the most pretentious claims, a power that is to endure until the second advent of Christ.
We must, therefore, look for its fulfilment in what we may term the main line of historic Christianity.

[Sidenote: First evidences of decline]

The "falling away" from the simple truths and standards of the gospel began at a very early
date. The mystery of iniquity was already working in the apostles' day. Before the close of
the first century we find in the churches of Asia Minor a sad deflection from their primitive
condition. The church at Ephesus had left its first love (Rev. 2:4); the church at Pergamos
was tolerating false teachers and being ruined by false doctrines (2:14, 15); Thyatira had
lost the spirit of holy judgment against wrong-doing and was therefore affected by a shocking
degree of immorality (2: 20-23); the message to Sardis was, "Thou hast a name that thou livest,
and art dead (3:1); Laodicea had become so lukewarm that the Lord said, "I will spew thee out
of my mouth" (3:15, 16).

[Sidenote: The apostolic fathers]

The transition from the apostles to the age of the early church fathers is involved in considerable
darkness. Not until the middle of the second century, when Justin Martyr appears on the scene,
does the church emerge from its obscurity into the clear light of history. The apostolic fathers--Clement
of Rome, Ignatius, the Pastor of Hermas, Papias, and the unknown author of the Epistle to Diognetus--all
these lived and wrote during that transitional period, and they could have told us much, but
they have told us little. We can not but admire the beautiful spirit in which they wrote, and
their style is earnest and vital. Nevertheless, we discern in these works two leading tendencies
which stand, so to speak, as prophecies of what was to predominate in the ecclesiastical thought
of succeeding centuries.

In the mind of the author of the Epistle to Diognetus, the grand central thought is the incarnation
and the spiritual presence of Christ in redeemed humanity, by which they are led to the "free
imitation of God," as a result of which they become to the world what the soul is to the body--its
life and the means of holding it together. This teaching is an epitome of the Greek theology
developed later by Clement of Alexandria, Origen, and Athanasius. But in Papias, who attaches
much importance to oral traditions that "came from the living and abiding voice"; in Ignatius,
who exalts the bishop above other presbyters; and in Clement, who, writing as a Roman, is concerned
with matters of administration and subordination to authority--in these we discern the beginnings
of the Latin theology developed later by Tertullian, Irenaeus, Cyprian, and Augustine, which
produced the papacy, and which, as we shall show, has in a great measure dominated the ecclesiastical
thought of the world until the present day.

[Sidenote: The Ante-Nicene age]

After emerging into the clear field of historic Christianity in the time of Justin Martyr,
we find everywhere evidences of a rapidly developing apostasy. In one respect we approach an
examination of the Ante-Nicene church with feelings of admiration. This was a heroic age, an
age of Christian martyrs. The struggles of Christianity against the powers of heathenism enthroned
in the Roman Empire and throughout the world form a bright chapter in the annals of historic
deeds and supreme loyalty to lofty ideals. When we view the subject from this angle, it would
almost seem to be an act of irreverence or of sacrilege to call in question the doctrines and
practises of that period when the church was baptized by fire and waded through rivers of blood.
Reverence for the martyrs and for their noble efforts to extend the cause of Christ is praiseworthy,
but in justice to truth, we must remember that even the martyrs were not inspired teachers
commissioned to build a model for all succeeding ages. That they were heroic does not prove
them infallible. We should never hesitate, therefore, to compare their teaching with the pure
doctrines of the Word of God, and wherein there is any lack of harmony, we should be guided
by the truth as it is in Jesus.

However much we may admire the early church fathers, we can not help noticing the sharp contrast
between them and the first apostles; between their writings and the sublime, inspired teaching
of the divine Word. If, after reading Paul, Peter, or John, we turn to Tertullian, Irenaeus,
or Cyprian, we instinctively realize that we have, so to speak, been transferred from sunny
Italy to frigid Siberia. We are conscious of a change to another era, and to another country.
Notwithstanding the fact that we find numerous familiar objects, we know that we are moving
in another atmosphere amid foreign surroundings.

[Sidenote: Growth of ritualism]

The church of the Middle Ages was the natural fruitage of the seeds planted during the second
and third centuries. There we began to notice particularly foreign elements which stand out
in bold contrast to the simple forms of primitive Christianity. One of these innovations was
the development of the ritualistic spirit, according to which undue importance was attached
to particular forms of worship, such as time, place, positions of the body, and ceremonial
observances in general. Take baptism for an example. Apart from erroneous notions concerning
the efficacy of baptism, which will be referred to under another head, the writings of the
church fathers abound with the most minute and puerile details concerning how the act is to
be performed--details of catechism, of consecration of waters, of dressing and undressing,
exorcism, anointing from head to foot with oil, the laying on of hands, etc., all of which
were to be carried out in the most exacting and solemn manner.

[Sidenote: Example from Tertullian]

As an example of the ritualistic character of Christian worship at the beginning of the third
century, I will cite a passage from Tertullian. In the third chapter of his work De Corona,
this celebrated Latin father undertakes to defend customs and practises that he confesses were
received "on the ground of tradition alone." He says: "I shall begin with baptism. We take
also, in congregations before daybreak, and from the hand of none but the president, the sacrament
of the Eucharist, which the Lord both commanded to be done at mealtimes and enjoined to be
taken by all alike. As often as the anniversary comes round, we make offerings for the dead
as birthday honors. We count shouting or kneeling in worship on the Lord's day to be unlawful.
We rejoice in the same privilege also from Easter to Whitsunday. We feel pained should any
wine or bread, even though our own, be cast upon the ground. At every forward step and movement,
at every going in and out, when we put on our clothes and shoes, when we bathe, when we sit
at table, when we light the lamps, on couch, on seat, in all the ordinary actions of daily
life, we trace upon the forehead the sign of the cross."

In words immediately following, at the beginning of Chapter 4, Tertullian says: "If for these
and other such rules you insist upon having positive Scriptural injunction, you will find none.
Tradition will be held forth to you as the originator of them, custom as their strengthener,
and faith as their observer."

According to this confession, all the ceremonial observances here set forth are without Scriptural
authority. When we read in the New Testament concerning the simple act of baptizing believers,
and compare it with the customs and practises that had grown up in the Ante-Nicene church,
we do not wonder that evangelical faith was soon afterwards almost entirely lost in ritualistic
forms; that, like the Pharisees of old, men made the faith of God of none effect by their traditions.

[Sidenote: False doctrines and heresies]

Another evidence of the decline of evangelical faith is found in the presence of many false
doctrines among the leaders of so-called orthodox Christianity in that period of which I now
write. Paul not only taught that at a later time some should "depart from the faith, giving
heed to seducing spirits and devils" (1 Tim. 4:1), but he referred to some who had already
"erred concerning the faith" (1 Tim. 6:21), and named two persons, 'who, concerning the truth,
had erred, saying that the resurrection was past already, and overthrew the faith of some'
(2 Tim. 2:18). After the death of the apostles, error made deeper inroads, and its baneful
influence cast a shadow over the church, which rapidly deepened into the darkness of spiritual
night.

[Sidenote: Baptismal regeneration]

One of the earliest corruptions of apostolic truth concerned the design and purpose of baptism.
It was not long until unscriptural significance was attached to the literal rite itself, so
that what was originally a mere sign, was substituted for the thing signified, and thus baptism
took the place of spiritual regeneration. In several places in the writings of Justin Martyr,
who lived about the middle of the second century, his language seems to attach undue importance
to the literal rite; but other passages from the same author indicate that he had not as yet
entirely lost sight of the apostolic standard. In his Dialog with Trypho, chapter 14, he says:
"We have believed and testify that that very baptism which he [Isaiah] announced is alone able
to purify those who have repented ... and what is the use of that baptism which cleanses the
flesh and body alone? Baptize the soul from wrath and covetousness, from envy and from hatred,
and lo, the body is pure."

In his First Apology, chapter 61, the same writer draws a clear Biblical distinction between
spiritual regeneration secured through repentance and faith, and ritual regeneration in baptism
as a mere outward sign of the inward work. He says: "I will also relate the manner in which
we dedicated ourselves to God when we had been made new through Christ ... as many as are persuaded
and believe that what we teach and say is truth, and undertake to be able to live accordingly,
are instructed to pray and to entreat God with fasting for the remission of their sins that
are past, we praying and fasting with them. Then they are brought by us where there is water
and are regenerated in the same manner in which we were ourselves regenerated. For, in the
name of God, the Father and Lord of the Universe, and of our Savior Jesus Christ, and of the
Holy Spirit, they then receive the washing with water."

Other writers of the period under consideration, however, praise the saving efficacy of baptism
in the most exalted terms. According to their minds, it is the actual means of the redemption
of sins, not a mere literal rite expressing ceremonially the work of God's Spirit within the
heart; it is an illumination; it extinguishes the fire of sin; it removes the unclean spirits
from men and seals them for heaven. Tertullian wrote extensively on this subject. In his work
On Baptism, chapters 3 to 8, he maintains the doctrine of baptismal regeneration "by which
we are washed from the sins of our former blindness and set free for eternal life." He declares
that by this act men are prepared to receive the Holy Ghost; that in the literal act, "the
spirit is corporeally washed in the waters, and the flesh is, in the same, spiritually cleansed."
Cyprian, bishop of Carthage (third century), in his treatise concerning the Baptism of Heretics,
teaches the same doctrine in no uncertain terms.

[Sidenote: Other erroneous doctrines and practises]

The limits of this work preclude the historic treatment of the rise and development of the
host of false doctrines and practises that finally bound the people in the thralldom of superstition
and plunged the world into the darkness of spiritual night. One who is free from such influences
can scarcely read without feelings of disgust the elaborate treatises of these church fathers
wherein they extol the virtues of virginity as forming a new order of life, as an evidence
of divinity, as making virgins while in this world "equal to the angels of God," and as a certain
surety of special rewards in heaven. From this false standard proceeded at length the celibacy
of the clergy and monkery with all their attendant evils. And the time would fail me to tell
of the introduction of images and image-worship in the Western Church and of that superstitious
regard for miserable relics of every description and kind. True evangelical faith was at length
lost to view, buried beneath the rubbish of men's traditions. The treatment of such matters,
however, belongs to the church historian, and as the general facts are well-known, it is unnecessary
here to make more than a brief reference to them so as to prepare the mind for that treatment
of the reformation which is a special object of the present work.

[Footnote A: Tertullian is the earliest writer that clearly and unmistakably teaches trine
immersion, or records its practise. But here he honestly confesses that it is a "somewhat ampler
pledge than the Lord has appointed in the gospel."]

CHAPTER VI

RISE OF ECCLESIASTICISM

[Sidenote: Two phases of apostacy]

In order to understand the place which the work of reformation has in the plan and purpose
of God respecting his church, we must carefully observe the twofold character of the apostasy.
Both these phases are clearly outlined in that remarkable prediction of Paul to which reference
has already been made, recorded in the second chapter of Second Thessalonians. The first phase,
described as "a falling away," was that decline from true Christianity which we have considered
in the preceding chapter as the Corruption of Evangelical Faith. The second phase was the rise
and development of a foreign element which was from its beginning "the mystery of iniquity"
and which in certain respects usurped the true place of Jehovah himself in spiritual worship
in the temple of God. This phase now demands our special attention.

Since the sixteenth century reformation a large part of the Christian world has renounced the
right of the pope to sit as the supreme earthly head of the church, but we shall show later
that these same modern Christians who have sought the restoration of the evangelical faith
have not discarded the essential elements of the papal hierarchical system, but have perpetuated
them in their own ecclesiastical constitutions, and that this relic of medievalism is the chief
barrier to a reunited Christendom and the restoration of pure apostolic Christianity. It is
highly essential, therefore, that this phase of the apostasy be carefully considered. It is
not enough to reject the pope and his college of cardinals. If that tree, as judged by its
fruits, is an "evil" tree, we should seek to know where, when, and by whom the evil seed from
which it grew was first planted, and then reject it from the roots up. Then, and not until
then, can the work of reformation be made complete. We have, therefore, to trace the rise and
development of what may be forcibly expressed by the apparently pleonastic phrase human ecclesiasticism.

[Sidenote: Divine authority vs. positional authority]

We have already seen that in the church, as originally constituted, organization, authority,
and government proceeded from the divine and not from the human. The agents whom Christ used
in performing his work and in overseeing his church were called and endowed by the Holy Spirit,
and this divine endowment was the real basis of their authority and responsibility. Paul's
authority and responsibility as an apostle, for example, was not positional authority, or authority
proceeding from a certain position to which he had been appointed or elected. His authority
was divine, and out of that divine authority grew his positional responsibility as the "apostle
of the Gentiles." Over and over he affirmed that he was an apostle, "not of men, neither by
man, but by Jesus Christ" (Gal. 1:1). On the same principle the position, work, and responsibility
of all the members of the body of Christ grew out of the gifts and qualifications possessed
by them, and thus the church was divinely organized and divinely governed.

[Sidenote: Original bond of union]

The bonds which united primitive Christians in one body were essentially moral and spiritual.
Christ was their ever-living and ever-acting head. Their life proceeded from him, and they
were all one in him. While those living in widely separated districts consulted together concerning
matters of general concern, or united in cooperative efforts to accomplish common tasks, there
is not the slightest evidence that there was an external human organization of the primitive
church--either sectionally, nationally, or universally--centralized under a human headship
of the administrative, legislative, and judicial kind. Christ was the head of the general church,
the head of all the local churches, the head of all the individual members of the church. In
him, the source of their common life, the primitive Christians were essentially one, and by
his Spirit he operated in all hearts, in all the individual churches, and in all the ministers
whose particular gifts and qualifications fitted them for divinely appointed oversight, both
local and general. By this means the primitive church was able to perform the work of Christ
harmoniously and present to the world the grand spectacle of one body.

[Sidenote: First steps to ecclesiasticism]

Jesus taught the humble equality of the New Testament ministry. "All ye are brethren" (Matt.
23:8). According to the New Testament they were all of one general order or rank, although
greatly diversified in gifts and qualifications and the kind of work accomplished by each.
The first example we have in Scripture of positional authority in the ministry as distinguished
from the authority of the Holy Spirit, is the case of Diotrephes, of whom the apostle John
wrote in his third epistle. We are also informed as to the nature of the authority exercised
by him and the direction in which it led. It was human authority, something additional and
foreign to the authority and government through the Holy Spirit, and the first example of church
government by a single man. It proceeded from the evil root of pride and ambition, the love
of "preeminence" among the brethren; and this usurped power and authority led to a judicial
process by which innocent brethren were 'cast out of the church.'

What a contrast this presents to that New Testament picture of the divine ecclesia, exhibiting
the highest form of human society known to history, a body in which every member had his gift
and use for it. Among these many activities, oversight and preaching had their place, but did
not constitute the whole sum of Christian service. The object of the ministerial function was
"the perfecting of the saints, unto the work of ministering, unto the building up of the body
of Christ" (verse 12, R.V.).

In his early epistle to the Philippians, Paul makes reference to the officers that guided that
church. He sends greetings "to all the saints in Christ Jesus which are at Philippi, with the
bishops and deacons" (Phil. 1:1). Polycarp, writing to the same church in the next century,
addresses the "presbyters and deacons," showing that the apostolic order was still preserved there.

[Sidenote: Bishops vs. Presbyters]

In the Ignatian epistles, however, written early in the second century, there appears positional
authority of a new order. In place of the New Testament standard of a plurality of elders,
or bishops, jointly teaching and guiding the local church, we find recognition of an office
which was superior to that of the presbyters and to whose incumbents alone the term "bishop"
was applied. A few extracts from his writings will make clear this recognition of a threefold
order of the ministry--bishops, elders, and deacons. "He is subject to the bishop as to the
grace of God, and to the presbytery as to the will of Jesus Christ" (To the Magnesians, chap.
2). And again, in the same epistle he says, "I exhort you to study to do all things with a
divine harmony, while your bishop presides in the place of God, and your presbytery in the
place of the assembly of the apostles" (chap. 6). "In like manner, let all reverence the deacons
as the appointment of Jesus Christ, and the bishop as Jesus Christ, who is the Son of the Father,
and the presbyters as the Sanhedrin of God, and assembly of the apostles. Apart from these
there is no church" (To the Trallians, chap. 3). (chap. 9).

That this early recognition of a superior order of ministers was a distinct innovation is also
shown from the literature of that period. In the Shepherd of Hermas, dating from the first
part of the second century, elders and presbyters are distinctly named but no bishop in contrast
therewith. In the so-called "Teaching of the Twelve Apostles," also dating from the first part
of the second century, bishops and deacons only are named as teachers and leaders of the church,
showing that the original signification of the term "bishop" is here retained. Clement of Rome,
in his first epistle to the Corinthians, speaks of the ministry as an institution of the apostles,
but he mentions, nevertheless, only a twofold order--elders and deacons, presbyters and deacons,
or bishops and deacons. The same classification is made in the second epistle of Clement to
the Corinthians, a work which is generally ascribed to another author; so also in the epistle
of Polycarp to the Philippians.

[Sidenote: Innovation becomes general]

The superior office of the bishop as distinguished from the local presbytery was, therefore,
an innovation, but in process of time its recognition became general. It is probable that in
the local presbytery of the primitive church some one minister excelled in special gifts and
qualifications and consequently became a natural leader of his brethren. Such leadership was
of God, comes general because it was based on the authority proceeding from the Spirit of God.
Such was the leadership which Paul held in a sphere of activity wider than a local congregation.
But such was not positional authority or authority proceeding from a humanly created superior
office and appointment thereto. It was of divine order. But this fact of distinguished leadership
at first, doubtless furnished an excuse for the creation of a distinct office with carefully
defined functions and limits of authority. The power of the bishop thus constituted advanced
steadily. The churches of the cities where they were located extended their influences over
smaller towns in the surrounding territory, and thus the city bishop came to rule over the
elders of the lesser churches of a district.

[Sidenote: Development of hierarchy]

When the first step toward ecclesiasticism was definitely taken, by the recognition of official
position authority, and government proceeding from human appointment alone, the way was prepared
for rapid progress toward a highly organized system of man-rule. When the bishops met in provincial
councils, special deference was given those bishops from cities of great political importance,
and they were exalted to the presidency of these councils, and this in time led to the recognition
of a new order of church officials--metropolitans. Later the metropolitans seemed too numerous
for general utility in governmental functions; therefore general leadership gradually became
centralized more and more in the bishops or metropolitans of certain of the most important
cities, until they were finally given recognition as an order superior to that of metropolitans
and were styled patriarchs. The first Council of Nice recognized this superior authority possessed
by the patriarchates of Alexandria, Rome, and Antioch. The General Council of Constantinople
placed the bishop of Constantinople in the same rank with the other three patriarchs, and the
General Council of Chalcedon exalted the see of Jerusalem to a similar dignity. The race for
leadership between the patriarchates then began. On account of the Moslem invasion in the seventh
century, Jerusalem, Alexandria, and Antioch fell away from their former positions of greatness;
therefore the rivalry for leadership was henceforth between the see of Rome and the bishop
of Constantinople. Rome possessed many natural advantages, and consequently the bishop of Rome
gained the greater prestige. The full-fledged papacy was the result.

[Sidenote: Fundamental causes]

What produced that transition from the humble apostolic church of the brethren to the medieval
church of the impious Hildebrand, who caused monarchs to tremble on their thrones? The change
resulted from two particular causes, and it is highly essential to our purpose that we understand
them. One was a misconception both of the Fundamental constitution of the true church itself
as designed by its Founder and of Christ's perpetual relationship to it; and the second was
the imperialistic tendencies of that age to which the first error naturally exposed the church.

It is unnecessary here to recite at length that conception of the primitive church which we
have described in preceding chapters as the concrete expression of the kingdom of God. Such
was the only true catholic, or universal, church. Its catholicity, however, was a moral and
spiritual dominion exercised over men by the truth and Spirit of God, and was rendered visible
only in the society of redeemed believers who held the truth and bore its appropriate fruits
of righteousness. Being composed of the redeemed, it lovingly embraced within its membership
the entire brotherhood of Christ.

[Sidenote: Two theories of catholicity]

It is not too much to say that in the age in which Christianity first appeared it was difficult
for men to appreciate the conception of a purely moral and spiritual authority which was to
be universal and perpetual. Another idea of catholicity soon began to take possession of men's
minds--the idea of a temporal and earthly organization of the kingdom of heaven. In this conception
of the church the bond of union was not moral and spiritual--not the inevitable result of divine
life and love in the individual members--but its pretended catholicity was to be secured by
official, administrative, legislative, and judicial functions under a human headship and a
self-perpetuating human magistracy. Such was the "mystery of iniquity," and in its developed
form historically it was "the man of sin." The student of the New Testament can easily see
that the great Founder never intended that the boundary of his church should be determined
by the administrative functions of a self-perpetuating clerical corporation. But, on the other
hand, the real church embraces the entire spiritual brotherhood, and out of this spiritual
membership was developed by the Spirit of God the capacity and authority to teach, guide, and
instruct. What a contrast these two conceptions present!

[Sidenote: The power of the keys]

Out of that worldly conception of the kingdom of God grew the Romish figment of the "power
of the keys." According to this idea, Christ constituted his ministers a sort of clerical,
close corporation invested with direct authority over souls so that without their priestly
mediation the kingdom of heaven is forever shut against men. The words "keys of the kingdom
of heaven" (Matt. 16:19) are evidently nothing more than a figurative expression indicating
the moral influence in the kingdom which Peter in particular should wield with peculiar energy
and efficiency. According to Matt. 18:18 all the apostles and others were to exercise the same
functions. In time, this expression denoting moral influence and usefulness in the service
of Christ was tortured into an engine of despotism and made the means of spiritual tyranny
over the consciences of millions of men and women. The corporation entrusted with such power
durst not be resisted, and the church was identical with the hierarchy.

But all of Rome's boasted catholicity, centralized in an official, administrative corporation,
is a chimera; for it is a fact that multitudes are accepted of God as members of the divine
family who are not identified with the hierarchy. The real catholic church, embracing the whole
spiritual brotherhood, is therefore something else.

[Sidenote: Main source of ecclesiasticism]

But we have not yet reached in this discussion the tap-root of the evil tree of human ecclesiasticism.
The fundamental error underlying all other errors on this subject, was the idea of an absent
Christ. Notwithstanding the definite assertions of our Lord, "I am with you alway, even unto
the end of the world" and "Where two or three are gathered together in my name, there am I
in the midst of them"--notwithstanding these reassuring promises and the definite statements
of the apostles which represent Christ as the ever-living and ever-acting head of the church,
soon after the apostolic period men lost the consciousness of the divine presence and began
to think and to act as if Christ were indeed absent and would not return again for thousands
of years. The presence of gigantic evils in the world with no apparent available means of redressing
them, the dead weight of heathenism, and the disturbing influences of speculative Oriental
philosophies impressed upon the conscience of the world a despairing pessimism. In the midst
of this trial there was a revival of the Platonic philosophy. The treatise of Plato that made
the most profound impression upon the religious thought of the second century was the "Timaeus,"
wherein the Deity is pictured as withdrawn from the world into a distant heaven separated from
all creation because of the evil with which matter is essentially connected. With God withdrawn
from the world and Christ absent on a long journey, what was man to do? What was the hope of
the world?

Here ecclesiasticism found its real opportunity. Here human authority and government could
be and was substituted for that spiritual dominion of Christ which gave life, form, and character
to his church in primitive days. Here grew up that conception of the church as identical with
the hierarchy whose power and authority was handed down by direct descent from the apostles
and without whose priestly mediation there was no hope of salvation. Here was introduced the
idea of world-wide centralization of administrative, legislative, and judicial functions in
a self-perpetuating human headship. What a contrast! With Christ absent, the church an ark
for the saving of the world, the truth a mere deposit made to the church for safe keeping to
be handed down like a heirloom from generation to generation, and with a self-perpetuating
priestly corporation as master of the destinies of the universe, we are prepared to understand
the tyrannical rule of the church of Hildebrand and Innocent III. Traced to its source, this
evil system is found to have sprung from that worldly conception of the kingdom of Christ which
was substituted for the inconceivably grander conception of its Founder--a kingdom whose dominion
is moral and spiritual under the personal supervision of Christ himself in all ages, and which
embraces in its membership the entire spiritual brotherhood.

CHAPTER VII

THE REFORMATION

The age of popery's greatest glory was the world's midnight. I have not attempted to give an
adequate description of that long reign of superstition and error preceding the reformation
of the sixteenth century. Such is the particular province of ecclesiastical historians. I have
simply confined the discussion to certain features essential to our present purpose.

One point of importance I have endeavored to impress, namely, that the papal hierarchy, with
all its attendant evils, corruption, superstition, and spiritual despotism, was the logical
successor of the Ante-Nicene church; that the ripened fruits of papalism were the direct results
of the seeds of error planted in the second and third centuries. In view of this fact, one
is led to inquire why true Christianity was not permanently buried in oblivion beyond the possibility
of resurrection, how any reformation could be possible.

If Christianity were nothing more than a human religion, its reformation at such a period of
decline and corruption would appear impossible. But Christianity was of divine origin. No matter
how deeply it was buried under the rubbish of human tradition and superstition, no matter how
grossly it was perverted and misunderstood by men, it still retained within itself the vital
spark of divine life, the living principle of reformation.

[Sidenote: First cause of reformation]

The secret of this reformatory power was Jesus Christ himself, the great ever-living head of
the church. Notwithstanding the decline of faith and morals among those professing Christ,
the wonderful character of Jesus still stood out with remarkable clearness and power in the
records of the New Testament and could not but exert a tremendous influence in spite of prevailing
standards; could not but shed rays of light and warmth in the midst of the surrounding darkness.
Although men's ideas of the church became perverted, they could not entirely lose sight of
the great Founder of the church, and they could not escape the conviction that the record of
the founding of that church was given in the writings of the New Testament and that these writings
were worthy of peculiar veneration. Perhaps this is the main reason why the learning of antiquity
was chiefly preserved in monasteries and churches. There were ecclesiastics in all these ages
who were acquainted with the Scriptures in Latin, and this acquaintance tended to preserve
the knowledge of Jesus the Christ as portrayed in the original gospel records. The history
of that epoch proves that there were men who loved the Lord more than priestly forms and ceremonial
observances. John Wyclif, Jerome of Prague, John Huss, and others experienced that deeper longing
for personal relationship with Christ, and they proclaimed the gospel of Christ in a manner
that could not be understood by the hierarchy of their times.

[Sidenote: Classical learning]

Jesus was indeed the Christ of God. The light which shone forth from his presence could not
be totally obscured, and the moral power and influence of his life and teaching could not be
destroyed. The revival of classical learning restored the Greek Testament to western Europe
and attracted the attention of students and learned men in all the monasteries and universities.
While the hierarchy insisted on the exclusive right to interpret the Scriptures, the simple
reading of these wonderful records could not but create new conceptions of truth which no clerical
prohibition could banish. Life was springing up in the midst of death.

[Sidenote: Love for truth]

The Reformation was the sincere effort of honest men to restore the truth of primitive Christianity,
that the world might again experience the triumph of evangelical faith. To the everlasting
credit of the Continental reformers be it said that their motives were not selfish. They sought
not for themselves freedom of thought and speech nor church power. Their immediate object was
the restoration of the gospel; all other results were but secondary. Nothing is more certain
than that at the first Luther had no idea of assailing the organization of the papal church.
Most of the reformers at the first still believed most earnestly in the imperial government
of the universal church; and they relinquished this long-cherished ideal only when driven by
force of circumstances which were at first unseen and unsuspected. Luther did not at first
question the doctrine of the supremacy of the pope; but when he found that the reigning pope
could not be reconciled with the principles of truth which he taught, Luther proposed to appeal
the matters in question to a general council, notwithstanding the melancholy example, a century
earlier, of the Council of Constance and the fate of John Huss and Jerome of Prague.

[Sidenote: Indulgences]

The real occasion for the outbreak of the Reformation was the papal traffic in indulgences.
Leo X had great need of money for the building of St. Peter's, and other undertakings, and
in order to fill the coffers of the church he had recourse to the sale of indulgences. The
power of dispensing these indulgences in Saxony in Germany was committed to a Dominican friar
named Tetzel, a fanatical enthusiast who entertained the most extravagant notions concerning
their efficacy in forgiving not only the sins already committed but even those which were contemplated.
Luther's soul burned with righteous indignation. Of what use was the doctrine that forgiveness
of sin came by the death of Christ on the cross if any sinner could obtain it from an emissary
of the pope for a pecuniary consideration. Luther felt that this infamous traffic was making
the Word of God of none effect. He therefore drew up ninety-five theses against the doctrine
of indulgences and nailed them on the church-door at Wittenberg. The printing-press scattered
copies of these theses everywhere, and soon the continent of Europe was in a blaze of controversy.
Such, in short, was the beginning of the Reformation and some of the causes leading thereto.

[Sidenote: Gospel standard sought]

The key-note of the reformers was, therefore, the gospel. The views of the reformers with respect
to truth were not altogether harmonious, and it is evident that some of them had much clearer
conception of the gospel than had others. Nevertheless, their primary purpose was the same.
They were gradually forced to the conviction that Rome had made the faith of God of none effect
by her traditions, errors, and superstitions, so much so as to make it practically unknown.
It was the purpose of these heroic preachers to bring out these long-obscured truths and thus
make them effectual in the saving of men. The main doctrine around which the Reformation centered
was justification by faith independent of human mediation.

So far as the Reformation restored to the world right doctrine, it tended to correct the evils
of that phase of the apostasy which we have characterized as the corruption of evangelical
faith. But it did not remove that other evil characteristic of the apostasy, the parent of
nearly all other evils--human ecclesiasticism. Viewed from one angle, that power appears to
have been modified; but from another point of view, we can see that what was formerly an imperial
system of centralized ecclesiastical control simply ended now in nationally centralized systems
perpetuating the same principles. Thus, from the centralized dominion of the papal hierarchy
there sprang the national, or state, churches in Switzerland, Germany, Holland, England, Sweden,
and Scotland.

[Sidenote: Lingering influence of Rome]

We have already shown that development of ecclesiasticism which culminated in the papacy. From
the primitive autonomy of the local churches, there came the centralization and consolidation
of churches sectionally under a human headship with administrative functions, then provincial
or national centralization, then finally the primacy of Rome over them all. The reason for
this is evident. When the moral and spiritual dominion of Christ's kingdom was lost to view
or could not be appreciated, the wrong conception of the church as a world-empire naturally
took possession of men's minds; for in that age vast, centralized, imperial power was the ideal
government. When, however, the political empire fell, and men witnessed the ruin of their political
ideal, they sought to realize the same universal conception in a world-church possessing imperial
powers under the pope of Rome.

[Sidenote: National churches]

At the period of the Reformation the Christian world had been in the grip of this world-church
idea for more than a thousand years. As already stated, the reformers, whose minds were directed
chiefly toward the restoration of evangelical doctrine, had at first no idea of breaking away
from this standard. Evidently they had no conception of that moral and spiritual dominion of
Christ by which alone he governs his church--a 'kingdom that is not of this world.' They therefore
abandoned the world-church idea reluctantly, and not until the opposition of the hierarchy
drove them to separation. When the issue was clearly drawn, they of course decided to obey
God rather than man. Having no idea of the real spiritual character of the divine ecclesia,
they had to content themselves with that national church unity which was still in their power.

The clergy, who had long been accustomed to the imperial tie, believed that a national headship
was now necessary. The governments of Europe at that time were for the most part absolute monarchies,
about the only limits to the sovereign power of these kings being the control which the pope
exercised over the ecclesiastical affairs of the nations. From this control the Reformation
liberated them. Therefore they eagerly took upon themselves the oversight of the national churches,
and thus came into existence the church-and-state system of Protestant Europe. To a great extent
the power that the imperial head of the church lost was acquired by the national heads.

All this seemed perfectly consistent to the reformers. They felt the necessity of lodging somewhere
that power of human control which had been formerly exercised by the pope. As one writer has
said, "They could not understand that Christianity could prosper without a strongly organized
and governed church or without the presence of a strong and vigorous hand ready at all times
to repress dissent and enforce uniformity of faith and worship." The time of absolute religious
freedom was not yet.

[Sidenote: Ecclesiasticism perpetuated]

As might be expected, numerous modifications of the principles and usages of the papal church
occurred in the change from imperial control to the state-church system. This diversity took
place in the different countries in accordance either with prevailing conditions and sentiments
or with the whims and caprices of the reigning sovereigns. While some retained the episcopate,
others greatly modified it or rejected it altogether. In forms of worship, ritual, and other
things numerous changes were also made. But notwithstanding the diversity in forms of worship
and in church polity, in two respects there was perfect agreement among all the Reformed churches--two
things brought over from the papacy--namely, first, the idea of a self-perpetuating clerical
caste possessing in their corporate capacity legislative and judicial authority over the church;
and second, the centralization under a human headship of administrative functions, instead
of that local autonomy which prevailed in the congregations of apostolic times. The doctrine
of the "power of the keys," a power wielded by a clerical corporation with authority to prescribe
the very manner and form of worshiping God and to require men to comply therewith or else exclude
them from gospel privileges. That doctrine was accepted without question. It was the same power
in principle as that which was wielded so terribly by Gregory VII in the papal church of the
eleventh century.

CHAPTER VIII

MODERN SECTS

[Sidenote: A mental picture]

Picture a keen observer living in the middle of the first century of our era. He travels about
from place to place studying the development, nature, and fruits of the recently established
religious phenomenon--Christianity. He observes the purity of its doctrines and the high moral
standard exemplified in the lives of its adherents, and he inquires particularly concerning
the secret of that mysterious bond which unites in one body and in one fellowship, sympathy,
and love the entire society of believers in Jesus. He departs. After the lapse of long ages
he returns near the beginning of the twentieth century, and lo, what is it that meets his astonished
vision? The mournful spectacle of a divided Christendom; of rival sects compassing land and
sea to make proselytes; of the spiritual alienation of those who, in reality, belong to the
one divine family; of waste and inefficiency in methods of evangelical effort; not to mention
the error, pride, and worldliness inherent in the gigantic ecclesiastical systems known as
denominational churches. What a change!

It is useless to minimize the evils inherent in the sect system. Intelligent men the world
over need not the services of an eye-specialist to see clearly that there is something wrong
with modern Christendom; that the sect system does not represent the standard of primitive
Christianity, but that in reality the sect principle misrepresents the apostolic ideal as portrayed
in the New Testament. We may as well face the facts honestly and seek for a remedy for this
disease that has so long marred the beauty and corrupted the nature of the true Christian system.

[Sidenote: Inherent evils]

I cheerfully admit that God has worked among his people in all ages in accordance with the
degree of light and truth which they possessed. But I can not forget that the greatest revivals
of evangelical religion have either taken place in spite of the sect system or among those
who had just made their escape from the bondage of ecclesiastical despotism and had not as
yet become very deeply affected by the sectarian principle. To what source, then, are we to
trace sects? What is their cause?

[Sidenote: Alleged causes of sect-making]

A large proportion of the Christian world would reply without hesitation that the existence
of the modern sects is due to these two things: the principle of religious liberty and the
limitations of human knowledge. Such an answer reveals a superficial view of the whole subject.
Religious liberty among Christians existed in the primitive church before the rise of ecclesiastical
tyranny over the conscience, and the masses of men in those days were at least as limited in
knowledge as are we. Still, the church was one; it was not divided into rival and hostile sects.
There was no need in those days of constructing churches to conform to the limited capacity
of men's minds; for there was already in existence a church sufficiently catholic in its nature
and spirit to accommodate all classes of minds, because there was in operation the power of
the Spirit of God which revealed truth to men and thus enlightened their minds and brought
them into harmony with the divine standard. Concerning the principle of religious liberty,
I shall have more to say hereafter.

[Sidenote: Human limitations]

The natural limitations of human knowledge may account for difference of opinion, but more
than this is required to account for the entire system of organized sects such as we see it
today. Millions of evangelical Christians possessing spiritual affinity and holding opinions
no more divergent than often exist between members of the same sect, are, nevertheless, divided
into independent, rival parties. Something else originated and now perpetuates that barrier
between them.

When differences are fundamental and therefore unavoidable, they will become more pronounced
under test than at any other time. If, during an epidemic, a physician believes that the method
of treatment employed by another doctor is actually killing the patients, his opposition to
such a method will then he stronger than at any other time. As long as that method is simply
a theory, it is harmless. Only when put into practise does it become dangerous.

It is a matter of common knowledge that evangelical Christians are not driven further apart
but are really driven together whenever Christianity itself is placed under any special trial,
as, for example, in foreign missionary work in heathen lands. And even in our own country,
whenever a great local interest is taken in the work of soul-saving there is a corresponding
tendency for Christians of different sects to ignore their differences of opinion and get together
as if they believed in a common Lord over all and were all members of the same family. Thus,
whenever the high tide of evangelism comes in, the landmarks of sects are scarcely visible;
but whenever the tide goes out, behold, the ancient boundaries of sects appear as before. This
fact proves that there are no fundamental reasons why sects should exist. It proves that in
reality sects are a barrier to the true work of Christ; hence are, in their essential nature,
antichristian. What, then, is the real cause of sects'?

Traced to the original source, modern sects, we find, originated where the papacy originated--in
the corruption of Christianity in the early centuries. All came from the same roots of error.

[Sidenote: True causes of sects]

However modified and diversified in external form and in doctrinal teaching they may now be,
they exhibit in their ecclesiastical constitutions a foreign character derived from the foreign
stock from which they sprang. Into this system there have been engrafted many noble scions
of truth from the "good olive-tree," and these have produced commendable fruits of righteousness.
But we are here concerned with pointing out those fundamental characteristics of the system
that are foreign to the true church of Jesus Christ.

[Sidenote: Erroneous ideas of the church]

The first cause to which I call attention is an erroneous conception of the church itself.
At the cost of some repetition I must point out that in the beginning the church was the universal
company of the redeemed, the whole spiritual brotherhood, whether isolated members of Christ
or those worshiping in local assemblies distributed over the earth. The tie which united these
members of Christ in one body was their common faith in our Lord Jesus Christ and the life
of the Spirit. But as in those times vast centralized imperial power was a divinity that every
one worshiped, it was impossible properly to appreciate the moral and spiritual dominion of
Christ by which alone he designed to rule his church; therefore men soon proceeded to pattern
the church of Christ after the political government, first by grouping together under one administrative
human headship the congregations of a province or section of the empire, and then finally uniting
these different provinces under one administrative headship at Rome. From that day until the
present time the church-idea that has generally prevailed in Christendom has been an organization
fashioned according to the kingdoms of this world; a human organization in which the administrative
functions of government are centralized under some form of human headship; a unity that is
not moral and spiritual, but official and administrative, as well as legislative and judicial.

[Sidenote: Wrong standard of church-membership]

Coincident with the creation of foreign ideals concerning church societies was the formation
of of a foreign idea of church-membership and church-relationship. In the beginning, as we
have shown, the church was simply the divine family. Therefore salvation through Christ was
its sole condition of membership. And as the local congregation was but the concrete expression
of the ideals of the general body or church, that membership in Christ which made men members
of the general body, made them, by a moral and spiritual law, members of all the other members
of Christ, and therefore fixed their local relationship: they belonged by divine right with
whichever company of believers they happened to be associated. Nothing more than simple recognition
of what God had done for them and the according to them of the local rights and privileges
that naturally belonged to them was necessary on the part of a local congregation to make the
actual union complete.

The wrong conception of the constitution of the church necessarily required another standard
of church-membership. When church came to signify merely a group of congregations consolidated
under a centralized human headship possessing administrative, legislative, and judicial functions
(so organized as to distinguish it from all other organized groups or congregations), simple
membership in Christ was insufficient to mark the convert with the stamp of denominational
individuality. Salvation itself made no one a member of a church fashioned according to the
kingdoms of this world. Consequently another standard of membership was necessary, a standard
which required acceptance of and conformity to the self-made rules and regulations of that
foreign society called a church. And when these earth-born institutions became identified in
the public mind with the real church of Christ and membership in them became confused with
membership in the true church of God, the natural result was that millions complied, in a formal
manner at least, with the conditions of the counterfeit church membership who never knew what
it meant to be vitally joined to Christ. In this we see the "evil" fruit which grew on that
tree of error. The multitudes that have been by this means deceived with the thought that they
were Christians, only to be lost at last, will not be known until that awful day of final reckoning.

[Sidenote: Divisive nature of the creeds]

The formation of creeds tends to create division and to perpetuate division. Cæsar's maxim
illustrates their history: "Soldiers will raise money, and money will make soldiers." So creeds
will make sects, and sects will make creeds. "A creed or confession of faith is an ecclesiastical
document--the mind and will of some synod or council possessing authority--as a term of communion
by which persons and opinions are to be tested, approbated or reprobated." The sect churches
are built on their creeds, although, of course, they affirm that their creeds are built on
the Bible. In this case, however, it is usually apparent to the careful observer that the Bible
is that part of the foundation which is buried out of sight below the ground. The creed is
the real test applied to persons, the measure by which their opinions are judged. It is the
creed upon which the sect is built that gives the denominational character and distinctiveness.

It is a fact of history that the primary purpose of the historical creeds was not to unite
men but to separate them. The Nicene Creed was made to exclude the Arians. The Decrees of the
Council of Trent were framed to exclude Protestants; the Westminster Confession, to exclude
Arminians; and the Episcopal Articles, to exclude Catholics and Independents. To rally around
a creed framed by human authority and make it the basis of union is but to teach a system--a
sect system; but to rally around the person of Jesus Christ and make him the supreme object
of our faith, hope, and love is to contend for what the Bible terms the faith, the truth, the
gospel. This is infinitely better than any document proceeding from Nicea, Trent, Dort, Augsburg,
or Westminster.

[Sidenote: Power of the keys]

Another cause, both for the origin of the sect system and its perpetuation, is the assumed
"power of the keys" which has been carried over from the Church of Rome. The idea that the
administrative rule and government of the church of Christ has been, by divine decree, centralized
in a self-perpetuating clerical caste with authority to legislate for the church and then to
enforce its decisions by judicial procedure, is foreign to the primitive church as recorded
in the New Testament. It is a product of Papalism, and yet it has been, in its essential characteristics,
transferred directly to the sects of Protestantism. The New Testament recognizes no such human
positional authority. It recognizes only that divine authority which operates through God's
chosen ministers and helpers by virtue of the Spirit-bestowed gifts and qualifications. The
only governmental authority exercised by the New Testament ministers was in cooperation with
Christ, the visible head, by putting forth, in accordance with the Spirit's gifts and qualifications,
some portion of that moral power by which alone Christ governs.

The idea that to a clerical order has been committed the exclusive guardianship of the church,
with full power to admit to or exclude from the worship and service of God all except those
who come by way of their priestly mediation, is the basest assumption. It is a violation of
the rights of individual conscience. Yet just such power has been and still is being exerted
as a means of enforcing acquiescence in matters of opinion and submission to customs and practises
which every unprejudiced man knows, or can soon see, is no part of the New Testament teaching
and requirements. What a weapon has this ecclesiastical assumption been! One always ready for
use. It makes no difference whether it is wielded by a Methodist conference, an Episcopal judicatory,
a Presbyterian synod, or a Catholic pope, it is all the same in principle--"the power of the keys."

[Sidenote: Lack of religious freedom]

This assumed corporate power of the clergy has been one of the fundamental causes of sect-making.
When a general clerical body assumes the right in its corporate capacity to prescribe rules
of either faith or practise, written or unwritten, and then to enforce them by judicial action,
it is a direct violation of the New Testament standard, and of the rights of individual consciences.
It was because of this lordly, unscriptural rule that many sincere men of God have been forced
to sever their connection with the older sects in order to find a place where a greater degree
of light and truth could be experienced and proclaimed. In such cases it was not religious
liberty that caused the formation of new movements and new sects, but the lack of religious
liberty.

That "power of the keys," making and then enforcing the standards of creeds, has done violence
to the conscience of both the clergy and the laity. Conscienceless persons subscribe to the
creed without any particular hesitation, but the truly conscientious suffer the greatest embarrassment
They must either refuse altogether and withdraw from all connection, or else subscribe with
a mental reservation amounting practically to hypocrisy.

[Sidenote: Inflexible character]

This inflexible character of the sect institution has been a most fruitful cause for the production
of new sects. No matter how spiritual the movement at its beginning, when its leaders were
not longing for church power but were earnestly preaching the Word of the Lord as it came unto
them, as soon as the sect machinery was thoroughly organized and was set in motion the inevitable
tendency has been to throw around the movement a wall of creedal and ecclesiastical exclusiveness
which shut out other true people of God; and then began a process of crystalization which ever
afterwards precluded the unfolding of new truth. It is a well-known fact that the high tide
of truth-discovery in every religious movement in Protestantism has been at the time of its
beginning. A fixed law of immobility has ever afterwards prevailed. The reason is clear: whenever
men grasp the reins of government and assume those prerogatives which belong to God alone,
the rule of the Spirit ends. The unfolding of new truths by the operation of the Spirit is
impossible within the limits of the old order where human ecclesiasticism reigns. But truth
can not be permanently suppressed. If it can not find room for development within the existing
order of things, God will raise up men who will, independently, proclaim the Word of the Lord.
This he has done repeatedly, only to have the new movements end in the same manner--in a rule
of human ecclesiasticism.

Human ecclesiasticism has always been the greatest barrier to the free spiritual development
of the work of Christ. According to that relic of the papal church, authority and rule is vested
in the clerical corporation and is by them conferred upon other individuals by the act of ordination.
How different the standard of the Word! In the Old Testament times the office of prophet did
not come in the priestly line, but on whomsoever the spirit of prophecy descended--whether
upon Amos, the herdsman, or David, the king--he spake as he was moved by the Holy Ghost. There
has never been a time under the divine economy when any man to whom the Word of the Lord came
was not divinely authorized to proclaim his message wherever he could get a hearing, whether
in synagog or temple, or out under the broad canopy of heaven.

CHAPTER IX

THE CHURCH OF THE FUTURE

What about the church of the future? Is the modern sect system the ultimate goal of Christian
attainment in this world? While the sects contain much truth and many of the people of God,
their ecclesiastical constitutions are foreign to the true church of Jesus Christ, and it is
inconceivable that the great Founder would make no provision either in his Word or in his plan
for the correction of the evils which have grown up around the Christian system during the
dark ages of the world and which have in a great measure perverted the gospel itself and lessened
its wholesome efficiency as the universal remedy for human ills.

Since no sect can make good a claim to being exclusively the church of God, a general feeling
of toleration at least (if not in all cases of sincere respect) has come to prevail respecting
the different denominational churches. Men have come to look upon the sects as a mere matter
of fact, not to be seriously questioned, and we are supposed to cover the whole scene with
the mantle of patience and charity and make the best of a bad situation.

[Sidenote: The Protestant truce]

Dr. J.M. Sturtevant has expressed this general attitude so well that I shall quote his own
words: "It has long been true in this country that no Protestant can freely expose the errors
and superstitions of the papal church, especially from the pulpit, without incurring the charge
of intolerance, bigotry, and uncharitableness. Religious controversy itself has been placed
under the ban, as in its own nature uncharitable. When once any religious opinion has organized
itself into a sect, it is thought to have acquired a sacredness which, in the name of Christian
charity and in the interest of the tranquility of the community, defends it from any open assault.
We have come into the condition in which Rome was when she had extended her conquests from
the British Isles to the Euphrates and had transferred to Rome the divinities of all the countries
conquered. People of every nationality might worship their own divinities, but must respectfully
tolerate the worship of every other. In this way only could religious conflict be avoided.
The chief reason why Christianity was persecuted was that from its very nature it could accept
no such truce. It is either a universal religion or no religion at all. It is, like all other
systems which claim to be the true, in its own nature exclusive."

It is because of its universal character that truth can accept no such truce as has been declared
by the modern sects. Truth is exclusive, and hence can make no compromises. The church of God
is universal or it is no church at all. The whole truth concerning the church question must
and will come out. The times demand it; the people of God demand it; the Spirit of God demands
it; and, as we shall show, the Scriptures declare it.

[Sidenote: A new awakening]

It is very evident that the people of God are not satisfied with the present sectarian situation.
Everywhere there is manifested a restlessness and uneasiness respecting the arbitrary lines
of sect which separate between those who have a recognized spiritual affinity--recognized except
formally by the ecclesiastical powers that be. The Christian consciousness is becoming awakened.
Men are coming to see that Christianity is to be measured, not by sect lines, but by that broader,
Scriptural rule of the divine family embracing all true disciples of Jesus--those who possess
his life and bear the appropriate fruits of righteousness. This awakening, with its logical
consequences, is what I have termed THE LAST REFORMATION. It will give form and character to
the Church of the Future.

[Sidenote: Apologies for sects]

Sectarianism still has its defenders, however. In the midst of the rising tide of spiritual
fellowship and love, there are those who bring forward a few sickly apologies for sects, apologies
which generally impress the earnest student of the Scriptures with the thought that the apologist
has a hard case to make out. The excuse most commonly advanced is that the sect system is a
useful arrangement for accommodating the variety of tastes and feelings found among Christian
people. It is assumed that some are natural-born Episcopalians, with an innate fondness for
formal liturgies and ecclesiastical vestments, and that others are so constituted by nature
as to require certain other particular forms of worship.

[Sidenote: Diversity of taste and culture]

If there is any such fundamental demand in human nature for a variety of sects, as different
climates are required to suit different orders of life on our planet, it is strange indeed
that the apostles overlooked such an important point and failed to provide for it. Why was
not the primitive church constructed so as to bring into existence at once a variety of human
sects to accommodate the different classes of people then existing? From the modern point of
view they had an excellent excuse for starting with at least two churches--one for the Jews
and another for the Gentiles; and if these had not been sufficient, before the end of their
personal ministry they could have brought into existence a whole brood of sects.

Now, the student of the Scriptures knows that the apostles proceeded exactly in the opposite
direction. They labored earnestly to bring all classes into love and fellowship in one body.
This course was not in accordance with the wisdom of the world, but the twentieth century is
beginning to see that it was "the wisdom of God."

The reason why men have a liking for formal liturgies, stately ceremonies, and ecclesiastical
vestments is because of environment. They have been trained that way. Here again we see the
natural tendency of sects to make sectarians and thus reproduce their kind. When particular
forms and ceremonies, which are not required by Scripture, are enforced upon men by a self-constituted,
self-perpetuating ecclesiastical authority, the inevitable result is to stamp the same principles
upon succeeding generations and thus perpetuate the sect system exercising such authority.

[Sidenote: The sect spirit]

In a final effort to lessen the odium attaching to what is now widely recognized as an evil,
some assert that the cause of mischief is the sect spirit. This statement contains truth, but
it does not tell the whole truth. One of the worst evils of human slavery was the extreme tyranny
which some slave-masters exercised. But the real fact was that the system itself tended to
convert good men and women into tyrants. The special manifestation of evil was both effect
and cause. It was the natural tendency of the system to make tyrants, and tyrants perpetuated
the system. So also with sectarianism. Though all can realize a theoretical difference between
the sect spirit and simple denominationalism, yet the very tendency of the system itself is
to create party interests and to introduce party rivalries, which naturally foster the sect
spirit. Without that devotion to party and party interests--a devotion almost equal to their
devotion to the gospel itself--sects would perish. If sect-members should become so universal
in their love and sympathy as to devote themselves to the work of Christ alone--forgetting
party interests--sects would die. The sect spirit is, therefore, essential to the maintenance
of the life and individuality of the sect body.

[Sidenote: What is the remedy?]

The remedy for sectarianism is not a return to imperialism. The world-church idea as exemplified
in the papal church is not the goal of Christianity. Such might hold dominion over men in the
barbaric ages of the world, but its universal sway has ceased. The Inquisition will never be
reestablished. The unity of the church is not to be found in an imperial hierarchy.

Nor is Christian unity to be obtained by adherence to the historic creeds. These documents
may express many noble sentiments respecting Christ and his truth, and they may express the
fullest knowledge of the truth known in the days when they were written. But knowledge of the
truth is progressive, while creeds are stationary. No human document, therefore, can serve
as a permanent basis upon which to build our faith. And then, too, we have seen that creeds
are in their very nature divisive. Hence they can not be made the basis for the realization
of unity.

Nor is the unity of the church to be found in some particular form of exclusive church polity,
as Episcopalianism, Presbyterianism, or Congregationalism. We have conclusively proved that
that conception of the church patterned after the forms of political government, in which government
and authority are vested inherently and exclusively in human hands, is foreign to the original
conception of the church as it existed in the minds of its Founder and his apostles. The government
of the New Testament church is a theocracy. Christ is head. He rules through his Holy Spirit
by moral suasion and spiritual influence, and the ministers and helpers whom he calls and qualifies
share in that oversight and responsibility to the same extent that they are able to wield the
same moral and spiritual power. This is the only church authority and government recognized
in the New Testament.

[Sidenote: The perpetual theocracy]

Here I shall digress long enough to point out by way of contrast the true form of divine government.
Every one is familiar with the theocratic government of Israel under the Old Testament dispensation.
God ruled. He who carefully reads the New Testament can not fail to discern the same type of
government in the church before the rise of human ecclesiasticism. The first preachers of the
gospel spoke with an authority not derived from a human source. The same principle stands out
in bold relief in the experience of Paul. Although that great apostle was forward to cooperate
with other apostles and ministers of Christ, one can not fail to see that his whole career
exemplified the principle of theocracy. He "was not disobedient unto the heavenly vision."

[Sidenote: An important parallelism]

Permit me to call attention particularly to an important parallelism between the government
of Israel under the theocracy and the government of the New Testament church before the rise
of ecclesiasticism. God led his people out of Egypt by Moses and Joshua. These men are a type
of Christ, who leads his people. After the Israelites were settled in Canaan, they had no central
government, but each locality or city was autonomous, having its local judges or elders. In
a time of crisis God raised up a judge to lead the people in the necessary cooperative efforts
to preserve or regain their liberties. Their miseries Were always the result of their own sins,
not a failure of the divine form of government. Their appointing a king and thus setting up
a centralized human government was called rejecting God as ruler. And this is exactly parallel
with what ecclesiasticism has done and is doing with the same results. God's government of
the church is set aside and rejected.

[Sidenote: Not church federation]

Nor will an organic union of all the sects solve the problem of unity. In the first place,
the tendency of such a union is toward imperialism, the creation on the federation plan of
another world-church. In the second place, such a federation would strengthen rather than lessen
the authority of human rule, while the compromises necessary to make such a project possible
would lessen in the same degree that freedom of the Spirit by which alone the full gospel can
be given to the world. And in the third place, such a federation would not be the church of
God, for the very framework on which it would rest, human ecclesiasticism, is foreign to the
original conception of the church. It would be only a human arrangement patterned after the
model of a world-empire. And for another reason such would not be the church. The divine ekklesia
includes in its membership the whole family of God. Thousands of men and women who are united
to Christ and in fellowship with all the saved are not members of the formally organized sects.
Therefore the union of all such churches in one federation would not include the whole family.

[Sidenote: Back to the Bible standard]

Thus, the remedy for sects is not church federation, nor a return to the historic creeds, nor
the adoption of one of the exclusive forms of church polity; neither is it an attempt to hide
the sin of the obnoxious sect system by covering it with a mantle of charity and patience--as
a sort of necessary evil. What, then, is the real remedy for sects? It is the absolute rejection
of every foreign element that has crept into the Christian system and the return to that primitive
conception of the church as made up of the entire brotherhood of Christ, organized and controlled
by the Holy Spirit. For true unity we must turn from hierarchies and apostolical successions
and priestly corporations and church synods and human creeds to THE CHRIST who alone is the
head of the church.

[Sidenote: True membership]

Such a movement requires a moral revolution with respect to the attitude of God's people toward
membership in sects. It requires the obliteration of sect lines and the recognition of no other
bond of union than that of a common brotherhood through union with Christ. Divine life secured
through repentance and faith is the sole condition of membership in the church of Christ, and
this relationship is maintained by obedience to the commands of Christ and consistent Christian
conduct. (1 John 1:7).

[Sidenote: Elimination of ecclesiasticism]

Such a movement and such a standard of church relationship require the elimination of all ideas
of priestly ecclesiasticism. The Christ of the New Testament church is not an absent Christ.
He has never resigned his position as head of the church and vested the governmental authority
in a self-perpetuating clerical caste. His government is theocratic. He administers it himself
through his Holy Spirit. Hence no men or set of men can confer any power or authority whatsoever
upon any individual to act for Christ. Christ calls his own assistants, and any man unto whom
the Word of the Lord comes is divinely authorized to proclaim His message. The only sphere
of human operation respecting this administration of divine government is simple recognition
of what God has done, and this recognition in the last analysis belongs to the whole body of
God's people. The basis of every man's authority and responsibility is, therefore, not human
appointment or official position, but the divine call, gifts, and qualifications, that he possesses.
If, for example, he is called to apostolic work and endowed with gifts and qualifications fitting
him for such service, he has apostolic authority and responsibility, and there is nothing for
other ministers or Christians to do but to recognize what God has done. Such, in short, is
the divine organization and government.

[Sidenote: What of the future?]

The realization of this grand ideal of the restoration of the New Testament standard of church
membership, government, and authority, is impossible within the sect system. For the sects
to turn all the people of God loose from subjection to every foreign yoke and make them free
to associate without restriction with all the saved of God, would be an act of suicide. Only
by division and by holding the grasp of ecclesiastical rule can sects survive. But he is blind
to the signs of the times who can not see that the grip of ecclesiasticism is slipping and
the bonds of true catholicity becoming strengthened. The true people of God are becoming more
and more dissatisfied with present conditions and are beginning to think in terms of a universal
Christianity. The rising tide of evangelism among such is already beginning to overflow the
lines of sect. What may we expect in the future?

Things can not continue as they have been in the ecclesiastical world. A sweeping reformation
is imperative and imminent. In fact, the vanguard of this great movement is already visible.
What will the future bring forth? Will the sects themselves fade away and gradually become
dissolved? or will the powers that rule in the ecclesiastical world finally set themselves
against the spirit of catholicity and thus practically force the true people of God to ignore
absolutely all sectarian lines and step out on the broad platform of truth and universality,
united in Christ alone, knowing no head but Christ and no creed but His truth? Who can tell?

[Sidenote: A fundamental difference]

In the present work I have given a brief historical sketch of the leading ecclesiastical events,
showing the apostasy as it existed under two phases, the corruption of evangelical faith and
the reign of ecclesiasticism. I have also shown that the reformations of Protestantism have
tended to the correction of that first phase pertaining to doctrine, but that a complete reformation
requires the elimination of ecclesiasticism. Hence what I have termed the Last Reformation,
if it is to be the last, not only must include the restoration of pure doctrinal truth but
must also restore the real church of the New Testament. So far as true doctrine is concerned,
such a reformation will differ from other evangelical movements in degree only--it must ultimately
comprehend the whole truth. But the fundamental difference between the reformation herein considered
and all other preceding reformations is that it strikes the death-blow to the very root of
error that produced the sect system--human ecclesiasticism--and substitutes therefor the administrative
authority of the Holy Spirit working in varying degrees in all the members of Christ throughout
the world. The last reformation therefore must differ from all others, not in degree only,
but also in kind.

[Sidenote: The witness of prophecy]

God alone understands the future. During the ages past he has not left his own work without
the witness of prophecy. We may rest assured, therefore, that in the prophecy of the divine
Word he has given us an outline of the history of his church. So I shall ask the reader to
patiently follow me through a brief sketch of ecclesiastical events as described in the prophecies
of the Revelation. Such an examination will throw a large amount of additional light on the
subjects I have already treated historically, and will also give us a divinely drawn picture
of the church of the future. Such will enable us to understand better the real character and
extent of THE LAST REFORMATION.

PART III

The Church in Prophecy

CHAPTER X

INTERPRETATION OF PROPHETIC SYMBOLS

[Sidenote: Value of prophecy]

The value of prophecy in establishing the religion of the Bible as the religion, of God has
been generally recognized. Its value, however, is not limited to the proof of the divinity
of Biblical truth which it furnishes: it serves a definite and most important purpose in the
life and work of God's believing children in all ages. By it we are better able to understand
God's own plan and purposes in human history, and by it we are made conscious of our own whereabouts
along the pathway of time. The movements of God in the history of the past that were predicted
by earlier prophets have received their chief inspiration from the conscious knowledge the
leaders had of the prophetic character of their work. It was Daniel's study of prophecy that
stirred his soul for the restoration of Israel to the favor of God and to their own land (Dan.
9:2), and at the same time opened his own heart for the wonderful revelation concerning future
events. It was the consciousness of prophetic fulfilment that gave John the Baptist his inspiration
for work (John 1:23); and in establishing the truths of the gospel of Christ, the apostles
placed leading emphasis on the fact that these things were written in the law and in the prophets.

The love and care that Christ had for his people did not cease in the beginning of the gospel
dispensation; for he gave the promise, "I am with you alway, even unto the end of the world."
(Rev. 1:1). Through the varying conditions of time, Christ leads his people on to certain victory.

Since the mission of the church was to be world-wide and perpetual, it is fitting that the
church should be described prophetically in order that we might have definite information concerning
the operations of the divine hand in working out the great problem of the church's destiny
after the close of the sacred canon.

[Sidenote: Prophetic symbols]

Before proceeding with our discussion of those prophecies which concern the church, let us
pause and consider briefly the character of symbols. The prophecy of the Scriptures is presented
to us in two distinct forms--direct statements in the ordinary language of life and in symbolic
representations, but far the greater part is expressed in symbols, as in the book of Daniel
and in the Revelation of John. Without an understanding of the nature of symbols we can not
get a proper understanding of such prophecies.

Spoken or written language is a very complicated affair, but it is in reality an arbitrary
arrangement. The name that we attach to a particular object could as well be given to a totally
different object instead if we only agreed to make the change. For this reason spoken language
is variable. Changes are constantly taking place. The language of Bible symbols, on the other
hand, is not subject to the law of change, as we shall see; it is not based on arbitrary arrangement
or mere convenience, but its foundational principles exist in the very nature of things.

According to these definitions, the main idea of a symbol is the representation of an object
or quality, not by exhibition of itself, but by another object or character analogous to it.
Nor are we limited in the use of symbols to the exhibition of moral subjects alone. Any object
may be symbolized, provided a corresponding object can be found.

[Sidenote: Analogy the basic law]

Analogy, then, is the fundamental law of symbols. This being true, it is clear that symbols
must be definitely applied. They are not arbitrary. There is no reason why we could not call
a book a table, and a table it would be, provided we agreed universally to adopt that designation;
but we violate nature if we attempt to represent the quiet, peaceful, gentle disposition of
a child by a lion or a tiger, or a cruel, vindictive, tyrannical disposition by a lamb. A polluted
harlot may represent an apostate church, but not the true church. A proper correspondence of
character and quality must be observed. We must follow nature strictly. And this is the law
of symbols.

Symbols are drawn from different departments--from angelic life, human life, animal life, and
inanimate creation. But in every case there is in the selection and use of the symbol a proper
correspondence of character and quality.

[Sidenote: Twofold object of symbols]

The deciding factor in the original selection of a symbolic object is the nature of the thing
to be symbolized. In the field of Bible prophecy the general design is in the main twofold--the
representation (1) of the affairs of the church and (2) of the political history of those nations
and kingdoms which were to exert an important influence on the life and development of the
church. It is evident that in the divine estimation the church and its welfare is of infinitely
greater importance than the affairs of nations and kingdoms. Therefore we may reasonably expect
that, according to the nature of symbolic language, symbols designed to represent the church
will be found to be of the most exalted type, whereas those representing political things will
be found to be selected from an inferior department. In accordance with this fundamental classification
we shall find that symbols drawn from angelic life and human life invariably refer to the department
of ecclesiastical affairs, while those drawn from animal life or inanimate nature represent
political things. The only apparent exception to this rule is that certain inanimate objects
formerly consecrated to the service of God and thus associated with the department of the church
are sometimes used to represent spiritual things, because the analogy is obvious. Bearing in
mind this fundamental distinction between the representation of things political and things
ecclesiastical, we are prepared to understand other shades of distinction.

Nations may be peaceful or tyrannical and oppressive, and churches may be good or apostate;
but the exact character can be analogously represented by the symbolic object. A vicious wild
beast stamping and devouring would naturally represent a cruel, tyrannical government; and
a good woman represents the true church, while a vile harlot represents the church apostate.
But whatever the nature of the symbol, whether beast, locust, lion, horse, temple, angel, or
man, we may know at once from the nature of the symbol where to look for its fulfilment. This
important guide in the study of prophetic truth--a guide overlooked by most of the commentators--relieves
us of much of the uncertainty hitherto connected with the subject.

Since, as we have seen, symbolic language is based on analogy, it is evident that there are
some objects whose nature forbids their symbolization, there being no corresponding object
in existence. God can not be symbolized. There may be certain symbols connected with his person
setting forth the dignity, majesty, and eternal splendor of his name, but he himself appears
unrepresented by another. The same is true also of the person of Jesus, our Redeemer, although
in this case we must distinguish between the Christ incarnate and Jesus in his essential divinity.
Considered as incarnate--both God and man--the human aspect of his character as manifested
in his sacrificial death may be analogously represented as a Lamb slain. But considered in
his essential divinity, he can not be symbolically represented. Therefore, whenever the glorified
Christ appears on the symbolic stage, he always appears in his own person proclaiming his own
name. "I am he that liveth, and was dead; and, behold, I am alive for evermore" (Rev. 1:18).

In Rev. 6:9 the souls of the martyrs are represented as crying unto God for the avenging of
their blood on them that dwell on the earth. There is no object analogous to a disembodied
spirit. It is easy to give them an arbitrary name. Therefore they simply appear under their
own appropriate titles as "the souls of them that were slain."

Whenever we attach a literal significance to a symbolic object, we immediately destroy its
character as a symbol. This should not be done. With the exception of those instances where
the nature of an object forbids its symbolization and where the description must therefore
of necessity be literal, we should always look for the true fulfilment, not in that department
from which the symbol is drawn, but in another department--that to which the symbol by analogy
refers us.

[Sidenote: Field of present inquiry]

The limits and object of the present work preclude an exhaustive treatment of prophecy in general.
Our immediate purpose is to set forth particularly those prophecies of the divine Word which
clearly portray and outline the character of a world-wide religious movement in the last days.
To do this effectually, however, we must briefly consider those prophecies which describe the
principal ecclesiastical events in history which form the basis of, or lead up to, the Last
Reformation. The subject as outlined in the prophecies and as based on the facts of history,
naturally divides into four parts, or epochs, as follows:

  I   The Apostolic Period
  II  The Medieval Period
  III Era of Modern Sects
  IV  The Last Reformation

For the sake of brevity, we shall, as far as possible, exclude from our present inquiry those
prophecies pertaining to civil and political affairs, retaining only such as have an important
bearing on the church subject. (verses 1, 2, 5, 6).

As we have already stated and as will be made very clear hereafter, symbols drawn from human
life are used to represent ecclesiastical affairs. Therefore in the symbol now before us we
have a representation of the church, and from the general description given we infer that it
must be the pure church of God, for the brightest luminaries of heaven are gathered around
her and no evil thing is said concerning her. That this woman is the special object of God's
care and concern is further shown by the fact that when she fled into the wilderness, she had
"a place prepared of God, that they should feed her there." That this interpretation of the
woman is correct is also shown by other texts in Revelation.

In chapter 21:9 an angel talking with John said, "Come hither, I will shew thee the bride,
the Lamb's wife." In the seventeenth chapter the church apostate is without doubt described
by the symbol of a vile, polluted harlot.

The pure woman of chapter 12, then, represents the apostolic church in all its beauty and glory.
She is represented as clothed with the sun, a striking emblem of the light of the glorious
gospel of Christ which shone forth from the early church. The moon under her feet is generally
understood to designate the typical worship of the Jewish age, which was a shadow of things
to come but which now stands eclipsed in the superior light and glory of the new and better
dispensation. The moon is the lesser light and derives its illumination from the sun; so also
the Mosaic period was the moonlight age of the church and reflected a part of the gospel which,
at a later time, was to be revealed in all its glory with the rise of the "Sun of righteousness."

The crown of twelve stars adorning the diadem of the church is a fit representation of the
twelve apostles of the Lamb, they being in one important sense permanent fixtures in the church.
According to chapter 1:20, stars are sometimes used to represent Christian ministers, the analogy
as light-givers being obvious. (Dan. 12:3).

The prominent position occupied by this woman and the light which shone forth from the sun
with which she was clothed stand out in marked contrast with the later description given of
her flight into and seclusion in the wilderness. The latter stage of her experience I shall
describe further on, but a brief allusion to it will make her first appearance more impressive.
The wilderness describes the apostasy which was to envelop the woman and thus obscure her light.
Therefore her first appearance as in the planetary heavens presents a sublime description of
her dignity and excellence in the morning time of the gospel era. Her light shone upon all
and her glory could be seen by all. She presents that fundamentally distinct characteristic
of the true church of God--universality; not a mere isolated star shedding its feeble rays
in competition with the other orbs of night; but a cluster of bright, shining stars and the
very sun itself. The light of the apostolic church was, therefore, all-inclusive in the sense
of reflecting all the truth. It is essential to our proper understanding of the symbols that
follow that we comprehend the true character of the church of God--the bride of Christ.

[Sidenote: The man child]

The next object to claim our attention in the vision under consideration is that of the man
child to whom the woman is said to give birth. A variety of interpretations of this man child
have been given. Some say that it refers to Jesus Christ, but this application is objectionable
for different reasons. First, Jesus is everywhere represented as the founder of the church,
not as its child. Second, true analogy is lacking: there is nothing about a mere child to proclaim
divinity. Others have identified the child with the Emperor Constantine; but here again the
consistent use of symbolic language is overlooked; for if the woman, the mother, represents
the church, then the child horn of her can not represent a single, definite individual, but
rather a collection of individuals or another phase of the church itself. In other words, if
the one single symbol represents a particular individual, the other must also represent an
individual. Thus, if the man child is identified with Christ, the mother should signify the
Virgin Mary; or if Constantine is intended, then Helena, mother of Constantine, should be represented
by the woman.

It is clear, however, that the woman signifies, not a single individual, but the church. Therefore
the child born of her must simply signify another phase of the church but the same family.
By means of this twofold symbol--involving the closest relationship known--is set forth the
fruitfulness and perpetuity of the church. There is also another reason why a double symbol
should be selected to set forth the true church--to represent two distinct phases of the church's
life and history, which, in the nature of the case, could not be represented under a single
symbol. According to the description given, the man child was caught up to God and to his throne,
while the woman remained on earth and fled into the wilderness, where she had a place prepared
of God for 1,260 days. The man child, then, represents that phase of the church which was caught
up from the earth but ascended to heaven and there lived and reigned with Christ; while the
woman represents that phase of the church which continued on earth and fled into the wilderness
during the period of the great apostasy.

There is also direct Scriptural testimony justifying this interpretation of the man child.
In Isaiah 66 we have a sublime description of Zion, God's church and people, represented as
a woman, a mother. The context shows that this scripture is a prophetic allusion to the church
of the New Testament age. (verses 7, 8). Here Zion is represented as a mother bringing forth
a man child, but this is interpreted to be a nation born at once. According to Heb. 12:22,
23, this Zion, or Sion, represents the New Testament church. There is no doubt, then, that
the man child of Revelation 12 refers to the great host of new converts with which the early
church was blessed. The scripture in Isaiah just cited met its fulfilment on the day of Pentecost
and shortly afterwards, when thousands were brought into the church in a day. The apostle Paul
also refers to the great company of Jews and Gentiles who were reconciled to God as constituting
"one new man" in Christ (Eph. 2:15). (Rev. 12:3, 4).

The dragon is the name given by the ancients to a fabulous monster represented as a large winged
lizard or serpent. It was regarded as the enemy of mankind, and its overthrow is made to figure
among the greatest exploits of the gods and heroes of heathen mythology. The symbol, being
drawn from the natural world, directs us by analogy to persecuting, tyrannical government.
We must not suppose that this is a literal description of Beelzebub; for there is no proof
that the personal devil has any such appearance as this monster with seven heads and ten horns,
and a tail dragging after him a third part of the stars of heaven.

In the second verse of the next chapter John describes the rise of a beast that also had seven
heads and ten horns; "and the dragon gave him his power, and his seat, and great authority."
The fact that the dragon was succeeded by the beast, who reigned in his stead, is proof that
the dragon does not signify the personal devil; for, as far as we know, the archfiend has never
resigned his position, but is still doing his infernal business at the same stand.

In many respects the beast is similar to the dragon. In the seventeenth chapter the beast appears
again, and the explanation given by the angel will enable us to understand the signification
both of the dragon and of the beast. (verses 8-12).

With these facts before us and with our understanding of the nature of symbols, it is easy
to identify the dragon and the beast as the Roman Empire, first under the pagan form and later
under the papal form. Although the beast was to succeed the dragon, yet in identifying the
heads of the beast, the angel informed John that in his day five had already fallen, while
one then existed and the other was future. This proves, then, that the same heads served both
for the dragon and for the beast, thus establishing their essential identity. And it is a fact
well known that there is no essential difference between Rome pagan and Rome papal. The seven
heads of Rome, therefore, signify the distinct forms of government that ruled successively
in the empire, for they are represented, not as simultaneous powers, but as consecutive powers.
The seventh, or future one, was the patriciate.

It is natural that the pagan Roman Empire should be represented as a dragon. In the prophecy
of Daniel the Grecian kingdom is represented by a he goat for no other apparent reason than
the fact that the goat was the national military standard of the Grecian monarchy. So also
the dragon was the principal military standard of the Romans next to the eagle. Arian, an early
writer, mentions the fact that dragons were used as military standards by the Romans. The dragon
of Revelation 12 is also described as a red dragon. The dragon standards of the Romans were
painted red. Ammianus Marcellinus mentions "the purple standard of the dragon." By this fabulous
beast described as a great red dragon, then, is symbolically represented the heathen Roman Empire.

The ten horns, or kingdoms, which had not yet risen when the revelation was given, were the
ten minor kingdoms that grew out of the Roman Empire during its decline and fall. These are
as follows: 1. Anglo-Saxons; 2. Burgundians; 3. Franks; 4. Huns; 5. Heruli; 6. Lombards; 7.
Ostrogoths; 8. Suevi; 9. Vandals; 10. Visigoths.

The dragon is described with the horns, although they were not yet in existence and did not
arise until about the time the dragon became the beast. The reason why the same general power
is described under two forms--first as the dragon and later as the beast--will appear more
clearly hereafter.

The fact that the dragon was called the devil and Satan has led some to think that the personal
devil himself is meant. The foregoing explanation concerning the heads and the horns shows
conclusively, however, that by the dragon is meant the pagan Roman Empire, and not Beelzebub.
The Hebrews applied the term "Satan" to an adversary, or opposer, as can be seen by examining
in the original the following and many other texts: Num. 22:22; 1 Sam. 29:4; 2 Sam. 19:22;
1 Kings 11:25. The term is also thus used in the New Testament, signifying merely an opposer.
"But he turned, and said unto Peter, Get thee behind me, Satan" (Matt. 16:23). "The things
which the Gentiles sacrifice, they sacrifice to devils" (1 Cor. 10:20). Paganism was the great
opposer of Christianity; hence was a Satan to it, while the apostle Paul denominated its religious
rites as devil-worship. We must remember that the text does not say that the dragon was the
devil and Satan, but that he was called the devil and Satan. He partook of the nature and character
of the personal devil, was the chief instrument through which the devil worked, and was therefore
called by his name. This is not a literal description, for the fixed or planetary stars never
fall to the earth. If they did, they would destroy it. The stars are doubtless employed as
symbols set in the ecclesiastical firmament, giving light amid the surrounding darkness. Light
is so often used as the representative of gospel truth that the application of the stars to
prominent characters in the church is obvious. Jesus is the Sun of Righteousness, and his ministers
are bright, shining stars--light-givers. The ministers of the seven churches of Asia Minor
are represented as stars (chap. 1:20). (Dan. 12:3). The casting down of the third part of the
stars, therefore, signifies the warfare which the dragon power waged against the early church,
in which conflict the ministers of Christ became the marked objects of heathen wrath.

The symbolic scene suddenly changes, and instead of the woman and the man child, Michael and
his angels appear in conflict with the dragon and his angels. This change of symbols indicates
the introduction of a different phase of thought. From the nature of the symbols we can quickly
ascertain the reason for this change. The woman represents the true church and is a proper
symbol of its unity, beauty, purity, and glory. But there is another phase of the church which
can not be represented symbolically by a woman--the militant phase. The church is also an aggressive,
fighting power, ready to wage warfare against the powers of evil. We would not expect to see
the church left helpless like a woman before a great dragon. We would naturally expect to see
divine aid extended, and this is done by the change of symbolic imagery, Michael (Christ) and
his angels appearing to wage war against the dragon.

The battle between Michael and the dragon signifies the great conflict which took place between
primitive Christianity and the powers of paganism enthroned in the Roman Empire. Under this
figure, the followers of Michael are represented as victors, the dragon being cast down to
the earth, or overthrown. It is a fact of history that primitive Christianity succeeded in
its fight against paganism.

In the nineteenth chapter of Acts we have an account of the effect Christianity had on heathenism.
Paul went to Ephesus, which at that time was the chief capital of proconsular Asia, a leading
mart of heathen idolatry, and in which was situated one of the seven wonders of the ancient
world--the temple of Diana. The preaching of the gospel produced such a mighty effect that
the followers of Diana, fearing lest their magnificent system of worship should be destroyed,
stirred up the people in a tumult until the city was in an uproar, a great mob shouting, "Great
is Diana of the Ephesians."

Before the end of the first century, according to the testimony of the younger Pliny, the temples
of the gods of Asia Minor were almost forsaken.

It is a fact worthy of mention that the early Christians regarded the Roman Empire as a great
enemy to the truth, and described it as a dragon, the victory of Christianity over heathenism
being represented by the overthrow of the dragon. Constantine and others of his time describe
these events thus. Says Bishop Newton, "Moreover, a picture of Constantine was set up over
the palace gate, with a cross over his head, and under his feet the great enemy of mankind
(who persecuted the church by means of impious tyrants), in the form of a dragon, transfixed
with a dart through the midst of its body, and falling headlong into the depth of the sea."

Verse 11 seems to indicate that many of the followers of Christ lost their lives in this conflict,
and this doubtless is parallel with the statement that the man child was caught up to God and
to his throne. It may also imply that in the conflict the dragon employed the arm of civil
power in his opposition to the truth. But Christianity increased notwithstanding the violent
opposition. During the reign of the Emperor Septimus Severus, about the close of the second
century, when a violent persecution of the Christians occurred, Tertullian, the first of the
great Latin Fathers, wrote a notable apology for the Christian faith, addressed to the Emperor.
In this important document this noble defender of Christianity sets forth so clearly the nature
of the conflict between truth and error that I shall make rather a lengthy quotation from his
writing. (verse 14). By this sudden change in the symbolic representation of the woman's position
is set forth the ecclesiastical change that took place in the early part of the church's history.
First she appears as the glorious bride of Christ adorned in beauty and splendor and radiating
the light of his glorious gospel. She was then "the light of the world." Later we find a great
change taking place. Instead of the church representing all the truth to the world, we find
the beginning of a great apostasy, which in time was to eclipse and well nigh extinguish the
light and glory of primitive Christianity by substituting in its place the darkness of the
apostasy born in ages of ignorance and superstition.

That such a change in the history of the true church should occur was predicted by Christ and
the apostles. Jesus said, "And because iniquity shall abound, the love of many shall wax cold"
(Matt. 24:12). (Acts 20:30).

The reader can scarcely consider these texts without perceiving clearly that change which came
over the primitive church resulting in a transition from her glorious state of innocent beauty
to the full-grown papacy--the "mystery of iniquity."

CHAPTER XII

THE MEDIEVAL PERIOD

The fact of history pertaining to the true church which Paul described as a "falling away"
is represented by the Revelator by the symbol of the woman fleeing into the wilderness.

From the nature of the symbol employed, we should naturally infer that a persecuting, tyrannical
kingdom or empire is meant. That such an application of the term "beast," when used in connection
with prophetic symbols, is correct, is shown by a reference to the interpretation given concerning
the fourth beast of Daniel's vision. "The fourth beast shall be the fourth kingdom upon the
earth" (Dan. 7:23). We have already shown conclusively that by the dragon was meant the pagan
Roman Empire, and the same heads and horns are apparently ascribed to this leopard-beast, the
only difference being that the crowns--a symbol of sovereignty--have been transferred from
the heads to the horns. This substantial agreement with the facts of history makes certain
the identification of this beast with the revised western Roman Empire under the papal form,
the sovereignty being vested in the ten minor kingdoms until they chose to "give their power
and strength unto the beast" (Rev. 17:13).

The symbol of a beast considered merely as a beast, could not, in the nature of the case, signify
anything more than a temporal kingdom or political empire.

Every historian knows that pagan Rome was succeeded by papal Rome. The rising papacy succeeded
to the power and authority formerly exercised by pagan Rome; and when the political capital
was removed to Constantinople, the pope was left in possession of the ancient seat of empire
and government. "The beast" therefore refers to Rome either as a political power or as an ecclesiastical
power, the context determining whether the political or the ecclesiastical phase is meant in
a given instance. It will be observed, however, that the leading actions ascribed to this beast
are derived from its human characteristics, pointing unerringly to the papacy for its fulfilment.

This beast the world admired. The expression "worshiped the dragon" shows that reference is
made to the dragon, not as a political power, but as a religious power. This worship of the
dragon by those who worshiped the beast which succeeded the dragon was fulfilled by the perpetuation
under the papacy of the rites and ceremonies of paganism. Roman Catholicism is a strange amalgamation
of Judaism, Christianity, and heathenism. The part derived from paganism occupies such a prominent
place in Roman Catholic practise and worship that we can not fail to observe its close resemblance
to, if not absolute identity with, heathenism. Just to mention a few points:

1. The high priest of the pagan religion was called Pontifex Maximus, and he claimed spiritual
and temporal authority over men. The pope of Rome borrowed the title and made the same claims,
even being clad in the same attire.

2. The heathen wore scapulars, medals, and images for personal protection. Romanists wear the
same things for the same purpose.

3. Pagans, by an official process called deification, raised men, after their death, to a dignified
position and accorded them special honors and worship. Papists, by a similar process called
canonization, exalt men after their death to the dignity of saints and then offer up prayers
to them.

4. Papists' adoration of idols and images was also borrowed direct from the heathen; for all
such practises were absolutely forbidden by the Mosaic law and had no place in primitive Christianity.

5. Their religious orders of monks and nuns were also in imitation of the vestal virgins of
antiquity.

The beast is described as a blasphemous power. Adam Clarke has stated that "blasphemy, in Scripture,
signifies impious speaking, when applied to God; and injurious speaking, when directed against
our neighbor." A name of blasphemy would therefore properly signify the prostitution of a sacred
name to an unholy purpose. An example of this kind is given in Rev. 2:9, where we read, "I
know the blasphemy of them which say they are Jews, and are not, but are the synagog of Satan."
In this case certain wicked men blasphemed the name by calling themselves Jews, since according
to Scripture 'he only is a Jew who is one inwardly.' But to prostitute a sacred name to an
unworthy use would be no more impious or blasphemous than would the assumption by man of those
rights and prerogatives which belong to God alone. This the pope has done for ages. For ages
he has claimed infallibility, and this claim became a dogma of the church when adopted by the
General Council of 1870. To call the Roman Catholic Church the holy church of the Bible is
to prostitute a sacred name to an unworthy institution. And to elevate a man to the place where
"he as God sitteth in the temple of God, showing himself that he is God," by claiming those
prerogatives which belong to God only, is most flagrant blasphemy. (chap. 13: 7). Here we have
a direct prediction of that reign of tyranny in the Dark Ages in which millions of people suffered
martyrdom at the hands of papal Rome.

I am aware that many Catholics affirm that their church never persecuted, that it was the civil
power that did this dread work of slaughter. We must remember, however, that the beast of Revelation
13 signifies the imperial and the ecclesiastical power in the closest union possible; for the
beast appears as one, the two phases being represented by the combination of symbols from the
two distinct departments of life--human and animal. In the seventeenth chapter we have the
same distinct characteristics again set forth, but in a different combination, the beast appearing
simply as a beast, thus representing the political power of Rome; while the ecclesiastical
power is represented by a corrupt woman sitting on the beast and directing its course. (verse
6). The Romish church itself is, therefore, represented as participating in the work of martyrdom.

Does this divine prediction agree with the facts of history? It is altogether impossible to
compute correctly the number of those who were in different ways put to death for opposing
the corruption of the Church of Rome. A million Waldenses perished in France. Nine hundred
thousand Christians were slain within thirty years after the institution of the Jesuits. The
Duke of Alva boasted that he had put to death 36,000 in the Netherlands by the hands of the
common executioner. The Inquisition destroyed 150,000 within thirty years. If it be asserted
that this was accomplished by the secular arm, I reply that sentence of death was pronounced
upon so-called heretics by the church and that the secular power was simply a tool for carrying
the barbarous sentence into execution.

Popery has for ages claimed the right to exterminate by death those who were heretics.

That such teachings and practises were an integral part of Romanism is easily shown. St. Aquinas,
the "angelic doctor," argued that heretics might justly be killed. Cardinal Bellarmine, in
a Latin work, De Laicis, still extant, entered into a regular argument to prove that the church
has the right of punishing heretics with death and should exercise that right. Bellarmine was
a nephew of one pope and a close friend and associate of others, a champion of Romanism, and
a defender of its doctrines. In the work above referred to be declares that "heretics were
often burned BY THE CHURCH." "The Donatists, Manicheans, and Albigenses were routed and annihilated
by arms."

Many timid-hearted Christians in the present age of religious toleration think that it is almost
unchristianlike for us to bring up and lay to the charge of Rome such a sweeping indictment
for those massacres of Christians in a barbarous age. Such it would be had Rome ever disavowed
these acts or shown any signs of true repentance. The fact is that it is the boast of Catholics
that "Rome never changes."

"And I saw the woman drunk with the blood of the saints, and with the blood of the martyrs
of Jesus."

In our study of Revelation 12 and 13 we have observed that Rome in its twofold form--pagan
and papal--is represented by the dragon and the beast respectively. This has been established
so clearly as to remove well nigh all doubt concerning the identification. It will be profitable,
however, to give brief consideration to certain parallel prophecies in Daniel; for in addition
to covering the same ground and describing under other symbols the same general facts of history,
they furnish us an infallible starting-stake, thus establishing definitely the truth of the
interpretation concerning the Roman power, and giving us a solid basis from which we can proceed
with logical certainty to the interpretation of other symbols in the Revelation.

[Sidenote: The image of Nebuchadnezzar's dream]

In the second chapter of Daniel we have the narrative of a dream which Nebuchadnezzar, king
of Babylon, had during the time of the Jewish captivity in that city. After the king awoke,
he was so confused that notwithstanding the deep impression made by his nocturnal experience,
he could not recall to mind the dream itself. He therefore had recourse to the Chaldeans and
wise men of his realm. They failed to make known his dream, whereupon he became furious and
decreed their death. (Dan. 2:31-35).

The interpretation of this dream, as given by the prophet, particularly concerns and interests
us. Said Daniel: "This is the dream; and we will tell the interpretation thereof before the
king." (verses 36-38).

At the time of this vision the Chaldean monarchy was in the height of her power and glory.
Babylon, the capital city, was the chief "pride of the Chaldees' excellency," containing those
magnificent hanging gardens, one of the Seven Wonders of the ancient world. Nebuchadnezzar
was pointed out particularly as the head of gold in the image, but we should bear in mind that
in the general language of prophecy, "kings" signify not merely individual monarchs but monarchies
under a succession of princes of the same nation. That the real significance of the head of
gold is the Babylonian Kingdom or Monarchy is shown by the fact that in the description of
the other three divisions of the same image they are referred to directly as kingdoms. The
Babylonian Kingdom came to an end with the death of Belshazzar, and the overthrow of his father
Nabonadius in 538 B.C.

"And after thee shall arise another kingdom inferior to thee" (verse 39). This is the explanation
given of that part of the image represented by the breast and arms of silver. This refers to
the Medo-Persian empire, which, under Cyrus the Great, captured Babylon 538 B.C. and terminated
the Chaldean empire. The Persian kingdom was in certain respects inferior to the Chaldean,
just as silver is inferior to gold. It was neither as wealthy nor as prosperous, and was particularly
inferior in the character of its kings, for from the death of Cyrus they are said to have been
"as vile a set of men as ever disgraced human nature."

"And another third kingdom of brass, which shall bear rule over all the earth." This refers
to the Macedonian, or Greek, empire founded by Alexander the Great. After subduing Greece and
reducing Egypt, Alexander penetrated into Asia, took Tyre, met and overthrew Darius the Persian
at Arbela, in 331 B.C., thus terminating the Persian Empire. The Grecian Kingdom had less external
magnificence than those which preceded it and was founded and maintained by force of arms;
but it was more extensive than the others, including many dominions in Europe, Africa, and
regions farther to the east in Asia than had before been penetrated. It was foretold that this
kingdom should "bear rule over all the earth"; it was the main boast of Alexander that he had
subdued the whole world. (verse 40). The reference is to the Roman Empire, which succeeded
the Grecian. Whether or not the two legs had any special significance is not stated, but commentators
frequently refer us to the two divisions into which the empire of Rome was afterwards divided--East
and West. So also the ten toes of the image are often explained as signifying the ten minor
kingdoms which grew out of the empire. But we should bear in mind that this is not stated either
in the vision itself or in its inspired interpretation. Only four kingdoms are referred to
as such. The fourth division, representing Rome (in both its strong and its weak condition),
is described simply as "the kingdom," "the fourth kingdom." The Roman Kingdom was at first
"as strong as iron." No other people have ever made such extensive conquests through a long
period of time as did the Romans.

If Nebuchadnezzar's dream brought a man into prominence as a symbolic object, we should think
that, in accordance with the nature of symbols, a religious power or powers only were intended;
but the symbol is not a man, but only the image of a man, and that image is composed of inanimate
materials, which, drawn from the department of nature, refer to something political. We therefore
have political kingdoms set forth. The very fact that they are represented as appearing in
the form of a man, however, may at least allude to their being political powers combined with
religious systems. But the combination is not such a one as would naturally lead us to conclude
that reference is made to God's church.

The description of Nebuchadnezzar's dream represented "a stone cut out without hands, which
smote the image upon his feet that were of iron and clay, and brake them to pieces" (verse
34). (verse 44).

The kingdom of God appears as the fifth universal kingdom, destined to survive and surpass
all others. It is of divine origin, cut out "without hands." The other kingdoms are similar
in their nature and closely connected, in the single image of a man; but the kingdom of God
is altogether different and antagonistic. The prophecy refers to the establishment of the kingdom
of God in the early days of Christianity; for, be it observed, this stone struck the image
when all its four divisions were yet standing. (verse 35).

Here is a most important fact wholly unnoticed by those millennialists who look to the future
of our day for the establishment of the kingdom of Christ. If the stone has not yet struck
the image, then the chief part of the prophetic description never can be fulfilled; for there
is no sense in which the advent of the divine kingdom in this late age of the world can break
in pieces the entire image of Nebuchadnezzar's dream, there being no way in which it can truthfully
be said that its four divisions are yet standing. All these facts were true in the days of
Rome, however, when Christ appeared. The Roman Kingdom possessed all the distinguishing marks
and characteristics of the preceding empires. This is true not only of their territorial possession
but of their distinctive characteristics. The opulence of the Babylonians, the splendor of
the Persians, the strength and discipline of the Greeks, were all merged into the Roman Empire.
And more than this, these kingdoms were all idolatrous, and the religion of the Babylonians
was merely absorbed in the Persian Kingdom (not destroyed); that of the Persian was perpetuated
under the Greek reign; and all these found recognition in the divers forms of paganism existing
under Rome. In this sense the image, as opposed to the divine kingdom of Christ, was all standing
at the time of the first advent of the Messiah, and the overthrow of paganism by early Christianity
corresponds with the stroke given by the little stone of Daniel 2.

Notice how this fulfilment is parallel with the prophecies of the Revelation. In chapter 12
the Roman Empire under its pagan form is represented by the dragon. Christianity waged warfare
with this huge system of false religion and overthrew it. (chap. 12:10).

The kingdom represented in Nebuchadnezzar's dream came in the day of incarnation and soon smote
the kingdoms of heathen darkness as existing in the embrace of Rome, and broke them in pieces.
It was then in the stage represented by a stone. At a later time we shall observe the kingdom
in its mountain epoch, when it becomes a great mountain and fills the whole earth.

[Sidenote: Vision of four beasts]

The four constituent parts of Nebuchadnezzar's visionary image were interpreted to signify
four successive monarchies, the Babylonian being the first. In the seventh chapter Daniel records
his own vision of four great beasts that arose out of the violently agitated sea, and these
represent the same four kingdoms described in Nebuchadnezzar's dream. "These great beasts,
which are four, are four kings, which shall arise out of the earth" (verse 17). To the worldly,
carnal mind of Nebuchadnezzar, empires possessed a show of grandeur and glory, and they were
therefore represented accordingly in his vision; but to the spiritual-minded Daniel they would
appear odious and terrible, and they were therefore represented to him under the symbol of
devouring beasts.

The kingdoms symbolized by the first three beasts of this vision have no particular bearing
on our subject, aside from assisting us in fixing the chronology of certain events. The first
beast signifies the Babylonian Empire, corresponding to the head of the image in Nebuchadnezzar's
vision; the second, the Medo-Persian, corresponding to the breast and arms of silver; the third,
the Grecian, corresponding to the belly and thighs of brass. The description of these beasts
shows that in one sense they are successive and in another sense simultaneous.

I have already shown that the entire image of Nebuchadnezzar's dream was standing in the days
of Roman ascendency, when the kingdom of God came. The same fact is brought out in the chapter
now under consideration. After mentioning particularly the fourth beast, Daniel says, "As concerning
the rest of the beasts, they had their dominion taken away: yet their lives were prolonged
for a season and time" (verse 12). When these kingdoms lost their independent sovereignty,
they still continued as provinces, ruled by another similar power. (verses 7, 8).

The interpretation of this beast given by the angel possesses unusual interest. (verses 23,
24). Since the interpretation given by Daniel identifies the first kingdom with the Babylonian
Empire, we have an infallible starting-stake. Therefore the "fourth" kingdom represented by
the terrible nondescript beast of chapter 7 is none other than the Roman. The ten horns of
this beast are interpreted to signify ten kings, or kingdoms, thus representing the ten minor
kingdoms into which the Roman Empire was finally subdivided.

The description given of the tyrannical reign of this fourth beast aptly portrays the history
of Rome. By wars and conquests the Roman power broke down all opposition and reduced almost
every kingdom in the then-known world to a state of dependence. She drew the spoils of their
capitals to enlarge her own proud metropolis and thus tyrannized over all who did not quietly
yield to her unquestioned obedience.

The beast considered as a beast, could signify nothing more than a political power, and the
ten horns temporal kingdoms. But in this connection I wish to call attention to a singular
fact; namely, that, associated with the animal propensities, there are certain characteristics
drawn from human life. (verse 8).

[Sidenote: The marvelous horn]

A horn with the eyes and mouth of a man is a most unusual thing, and yet it is just such a
combination as we might expect when we possess a correct understanding of the nature of symbols.
These closely united symbols drawn from two departments--human and animal life--point us with
absolute certainty to a temporal power combined with an ecclesiastical power. The chronology
of the event is fixed by the fact that this eleventh horn came up among the ten horns, three
of the original ten being removed in order to give it room. The ten kingdoms all arose within
two centuries after 356 A.D.; therefore the facts brought out in the symbol direct us to the
period of the downfall of Western Rome for the rise into prominence of the little horn.

In giving Daniel the interpretation of the fourth beast, the angel also described more particularly
this little horn and the nature of its work. First Daniel said: "I would know the truth of
the fourth beast ... and of the ten horns that were in his head, and of the other which came
up, and before whom three fell; even of that horn that had eyes, and a mouth that spake very
great things, whose look was more stout than his fellows. I beheld, and the same horn made
war with the saints, and prevailed against them" (verses 19-21). But the judgment shall sit,
and they shall take away his dominion, to consume and to destroy it unto the end" (verses 23-26).

With the explanation that the fourth beast signified the fourth kingdom, it is impossible to
evade the conclusion that the politico-religious power symbolized by the little horn that came
up among the ten horns refers directly to the papacy. There is no other object that can fulfil
the prophecy. The papacy was just beginning to make itself strongly felt among the divisions
of the Western Roman Empire, and it is a fact of history that three of the original ten divisions
in the territory of Italy were actually plucked up successively before the rising papacy as
if to give it room for development.

When the Western Empire was overthrown in A.D. 476, the kingdom of the Heruli was established
in Italy. In 493 this was succeeded by the Ostrogoths, which continued for sixty years and
was afterwards succeeded by the Lombards. The Lombard Kingdom was overthrown by Pepin and Charlemagne,
who gave a large part of the conquered territory to the pope, thus favoring the papacy with
her first temporal power. This grant completed the symbol of Daniel's vision by constituting
the papacy a temporal as well as an ecclesiastical power.

The description of the great things spoken by the mouth of the little horn and of the persecution
of the true saints of God by this power corresponds so minutely with the characteristics of
the first beast of Revelation 13 that no further description is here necessary. It is said
that he would also "think to change times and laws." The language is spoken as if this were
a most extraordinary thing to do. Surely it is no extraordinary thing for a king to alter secular
laws in his own dominion; and so far as heathen kingdoms are concerned, it would be no sacrilegious
act for them to alter their religious laws and customs. But the little horn was to set himself
up against the Most High and think to change His times and laws--an act of unparalleled audacity,
impiety, and blasphemy. This description the papacy has consistently and constantly fulfilled.
The pope has assumed the power to make time holy or unholy as he sees fit; to command men to
abstain from meat and to cease work, contrary to the demands of God. He has claimed the power
to dispense with God's laws or obedience to them, "forbidding to marry," and through his indulgences
to remit the penalty due to sin.

The student of prophecy can not fail to see the striking similarity between the description
of the little horn in Daniel 7 and that of the ten-horned leopard-beast of Revelation 13. The
following parallels prove their identity:

1. Both are blasphemous powers (Dan. 7:25; Rev. 13:6).

2. They speak great things and blasphemies (Dan. 7:8, 20; Rev. 13:5).

3. Both are persecuting powers making war on the saints (Dan. 7:21; Rev. 13:7).

4. The chronology of each shows that the power rose to prominence about the time of the cessation
of the pagan Roman Empire.

5. The length of time during which they were to continue is the same--forty-two months, or
twelve hundred and sixty days.

6. Both are to be gradually but finally destroyed (Dan. 7:26; Rev. 13:10).

These powers, then, appear at the same time, in the same territory, have the same character,
do the same work, continue the same length of time, and meet the same fate. These facts prove
identity. We have, therefore, positive proof drawn from the parallel prophecies in Daniel that
the first beast of Revelation 13 signifies the politico-religious system of Rome.

[Sidenote: Length of papal reign]

The identification of the little horn of Daniel 7 with the leopard-beast of Revelation 13 is
now complete. That both apply to the papacy has been conclusively shown. We shall now turn
our attention to the length of time that this power was to reign. Daniel limits the triumph
of the little horn to "a time and times and the dividing of time" (Dan. 7:25). "Time," in the
singular, of course, signifies one time. "Times," plural, without a designating number, signifies
two times. "The dividing of time" is rendered in chapter 12:7, also in both texts in the Revised
Version, "a half." So the entire period is three and a half times.

The seven-year period of Nebuchadnezzar's insanity is described as seven times (chap. 4:25).
We therefore conclude that the period of three and a half times signifies three and a half
years. This agrees with the reign of the leopard beast of Revelation 13, namely, "forty and
two months" (verse 5), or according to the Jewish method of computing time--thirty days to
the month--twelve hundred and sixty days. Notice that this also agrees both in the manner of
statement and in point of duration with the flight of the woman into the wilderness, as described
in Revelation 12. She was to be nourished for "a time, and times, and half a time" (verse 14),
which period is spoken of in verse 6 of the same chapter as "a thousand two hundred and threescore
days."

The terms ordinarily used to measure the duration of time may be and often are used in a symbolic
sense; for time, as well as anything else, can be symbolized. Other standards of reckoning
may also be employed symbolically, but the one here referred to is doubtless most frequently
employed. Such a system of reckoning time was known anciently. The Mosaic law recognized two
kinds of weeks, the first of seven days' duration, the last day of which was a Sabbath; another
week of seven years' duration, the last year being a Sabbath of rest for the land.

There is no doubt that the year-day method of computing time is used in the prophecy of Daniel
9, the sixty-nine weeks reaching from the time of the decree of Artaxerxes in 457 B.C. until
A.D. 26, the year when Christ was baptized and entered on his personal ministry.

[Sidenote: The correct starting-point]

Applying the year-day standard to the period of twelve hundred and sixty days, we have twelve
hundred and sixty years. The next question to arise is, What date shall we select as the proper
time from which to measure this 1,260-year period? It is important that we correctly solve
this question. Expositors have selected different dates. They usually point out some particular
historical date having an important bearing on Rome's development; as, for example, A.D. 606,
when Phocas, Emperor of the East, accorded the Church of Rome special recognition. But the
papacy grew up in the West. If we are to regard as of unusual importance political recognition
of the claims of the papacy, why not give preference to imperial recognition in the very section
that constituted the home of the papacy?

Before considering further the relation of the growing papacy to the imperial power in the
Western Empire, I must call attention to an important fact generally overlooked or disregarded
by expositors. The 1,260-year period not only marks the time of triumph by the beast-power,
but also measures the period during which the woman, or true church, was to be secluded in
the wilderness. Two parallel lines of prophetic truth--respecting the true church and a false
church--are therefore set forth as coexistent and in contrast with each other. The correct
starting-stake can not, therefore, be when the papacy had obtained complete ascendency, for
this would be too late to consistently begin to measure the decayed state of the true church.
The date selected must be consistent with both lines of prophecy. The apostasy did not take
place suddenly, however, but was a gradual decline, a "falling away"; and the papacy, on the
other hand, did not rise to great power suddenly, but grew up by degrees. It was at first "a
little horn," but finally his "look was more stout than his fellows." Paul says that the "mystery
of iniquity"--the seed of apostasy--was already working in his day and that later "that Wicked"
should be revealed in all its terrible features (see 2 Thess. 2:3-8). We therefore have to
deal with a sliding-scale, a gradual decline on the part of the true church, and a constant
increase of that false, apostate power which finally culminated in the full-grown papacy.

Bearing in mind that the 1,260-year period measures both phases, we are obliged to select for
our beginning a time about half way between both extremes, a time when, we might say, the "falling
away" from the pure apostolic truth and standard was about half completed and when the papacy
was about half developed. In other words, the extreme of darkest night succeeded the light
of glorious day.

The period of the first apostles was the period of the church's purity and triumph. In their
hands the cause was safe and the pure truth shown forth in beauty and power. But with the close
of the apostolic era, the apostasy came on at a rapid rate, as the extant writings of the early
church fathers show.

By the middle of the fifth century the light of the gospel was eclipsed in the darkness of
Romanism. During this century the papacy secured political recognition of its claims to direct
jurisdiction over all churches. This occurred during the pontificate of Leo I, who, because
of his success in furthering the interests of the popedom, shares alone with Pope Gregory the
title of "the Great." To quote from the New Schaff-Herzog Encyclopedia, Leo "entered upon a
pontificate which was to be epoch-making for the centralization of the government of the church."
Political causes combined to advance the claims of the papacy to universal recognition. Attila,
with his fierce barbarians, invaded Italy and laid waste many of her fairest provinces and
then advanced boldly on Rome, whereupon Pope Leo went out to the camp of the invaders and secured
the evacuation of Italy. The pope obtained the full support of Valentinian III. In 445 Leo
enforced authority in the distant patriarchate of Alexandria. In 444-446 he was in conflict
with the Illyrian bishops. During this time in a letter addressed to them he laid down the
principle that St. Peter had received the primacy and oversight of the whole church and that
hence all important matters must be referred to and decided by Rome. He also proceeded to extend
his authority over Gaul. In this effort he obtained from Valentinian III the famous decree
of June 6, 445, which "recognized the primacy of the Pope of Rome based on the merits of Peter,
the dignity of the city, and the decrees of Nice (in their interpolated form); ordained that
any opposition to this rulings, which were to have the force of law, should be treated as treason;
and provided for the forcible extradition by provincial governors of any one who refused to
answer a summons to Rome."

The apostle John was banished to the Isle of Patmos in 95. Regarding that date as the close
of the pure apostolic era, and 445, when the pope received from the emperor of the West official
recognition of his claims to universal supremacy in the church, as representing one other extreme,
we have but to calculate the time half way between these extremes to find the consistent starting-stake
for the beginning of that time prophecy which is to measure both lines of prophetic truth.
From 95 to 445 is a period of 350 years. Half of this period is 175 years. Therefore 175 years
after 95, or 270, is the correct starting-point.

Protestant church historians recognize the decline that came in the early church. Many of them,
as D'Aubigne, Marsh, Rutter, Waddington, and others, point to the third century, or the latter
half of the third century, as marking an unusual epoch in this declension. Others, however,
who view things almost wholly from the external point of view, regard the accession of Constantine
in the early part of the following century as marking the important epoch. With reference to
this subject, I quote Joseph Milner, the English ecclesiastical historian: "I know it is common
for authors to represent the declension of Christianity to have taken place only after its
external establishment under Constantine. But the events of history have compelled me to dissent
from this view of things."--Ch. Hist., Cent. IV, Chap. I.

It is also evident from the facts of history that, in addition to the corruption of evangelical
faith, that other phase of the apostasy--human ecclesiasticism--was also highly developed before
the end of the third century. Dowling, describing the extravagance of monkery and the false
standard of piety and holiness it created, declares that monkery "actually affected the church
universal." See History of Romanism, pp. 88, 89. Very few marks of genuine piety remained.
With the decline of evangelical knowledge came a reign of superstition and ignorance. XX. I.
(Parenthetical clause is Milner's; italicizing, mine.) In addition to this quotation, and as
if to give emphasis, the historian places prominently in a side-head the words, "Decay of pure
Christianity, A.D. 270."

Measuring forward from A.D. 270 the alloted period of twelve hundred and sixty years brings
us to A.D. 1530, a year which marked the beginning of Protestantism in its organized form.
The first Protestant creed, the Confession of Augsburg, was made that year.

The description of the papal power under the symbol of the ten-horned beast of Revelation 13
and the little horn of Daniel 7 presents a melancholy picture of world-events during the long
period of twelve hundred and sixty years ending with the sixteenth century reformation.

[Sidenote: Principle of parallelism]

Before proceeding to give in chronological order a description of events following the reign
of the beast, I wish to call attention to an important plan followed in the Biblical presentation
of prophetic truth; namely, that the events are taken up by parallel series covering the same
period of time. But in addition to this point, we observe the principle of contrast. When the
history of political events is described, we have in contrast therewith a description of ecclesiastical
events; and with the representation of a false church or an apostate state of Christianity,
we have in immediate contrast the history of God's chosen people. Or perhaps the order is reversed,
but the principle remains the same. While, in the nature of things, these distinct lines can
not always be well represented symbolically as occurring at the same time, they are presented
in parallel series, thus proving that they were to be fulfilled simultaneously.

In direct contrast with the power of apostate Christendom represented by the papacy, which
for certain reasons I have presented first, we have in chapter 11 of the Revelation a brief
history of God's true people that existed during the papal reign. In this case, however, a
description of the apostasy and of the true church are presented in the same series and in
such a way as to give special emphasis to the point of contrast as well as to prove their simultaneous
fulfilment. (chap. 11:1-3).

It is clear that two powers in the Christian era are here represented, the one continuing "forty
and two months" and the other twelve hundred and sixty days, or years, heretofore explained
as measuring the length of the beast's reign, also of the woman's seclusion in the wilderness.
This similarity naturally suggests that we have here the same general facts set forth under
other symbols. Jerusalem, the holy city, the temple, and the two witnesses therefore correspond
to the woman of chapter 12. The crowd of uncircumcised Gentiles and their profanation of the
city of God for twelve hundred and sixty years correspond to the beast-power of chapter 13.

Wonderful truth is represented in the vision of this chapter. The symbols are drawn from Old
Testament history, from the religious life of the Jews--God's chosen people in contrast with
the uncircumcised Gentiles. It is evident, therefore, that the true church and the false church
of the gospel era are represented.

Notice carefully the symbols: holy city, temple, altar, worshipers, and living witnesses, or
prophets. These represent the sum and substance of all divine revelation in the Mosaic age:
holy city, Jerusalem--the place where God set his name; the temple--divinely authorised, holy,
acceptable worship based on careful adherence to God's commandments formerly given; the altar--the
great symbol of atonement, the reconciliation of humanity with the divinity; the worshipers
in one temple--all of God's people in unity; the prophets--the divinely commissioned representatives
of God bearing a living message for the people of their time. These conditions represent the
Judaic ideal. Whether they were ever able to reach their ideal or not, it is evident that the
Jews had the conception of a unified, holy, acceptable service (see Isa. 4:3; 52:1; 62:1-7).
The two witnesses referred to are clearly represented as prophets; for the work ascribed to
them as attesting their divine commission is a repetition of the miraculous works of Moses
and Elijah by which they established their claims to be prophetic leaders authorized by Jehovah.
The witnesses seem to be distinguished from the worshipers simply on account of their power
and message.

[Sidenote: The two witnesses]

These symbols represent the true apostolic church. It is the holy city, Jerusalem, his temple,
whose holy, united worshipers obey the commands of God. The application of the "witnesses"
particularly specified as they are in the description, requires further explanation. It is
said, "These are the two olive trees and the two candlesticks standing before the God of the
earth" (Rev. 11:4). Whatever these two witnesses signify in particular, they are the same as
the olive trees and candlesticks spoken of. It appears that allusion is made to Zechariah 4,
where two olive trees are represented as standing, one on each side of a golden candlestick,
distilling into it their oil for light. When the angel was asked for an explanation of these
two olive trees and the candlestick, he answered, "This is the Word of the Lord ... by my Spirit
saith the Lord" (verse 6). We are to understand, therefore, that God's Word and Spirit are
the "two witnesses" in his church; that is, they signify the divine element operating in his
church. Just as the mediation of the prophets was necessary in the olden times to maintain
constant contact with God, without which the religious exercises degenerated to mere formalism,
so the living Word and Spirit of God were present in the apostolic church to elevate its service
above mere human systems and forms of worship.

Of the uncircumcised Gentiles it is said, "The holy city shall they tread under foot forty
and two months." This signifies the great apostasy that overspread the earth, defiling and
perverting the true worship of God. The burden of this series, however, is not to describe
the foreign element thus introduced, but to set forth in greater fulness the fact that during
the same time that the idolatrous multitude of Gentiles trod down the holy city God preserved
his own people. The temple still remained, and it had devout worshipers; the two witnesses
still prophesied, although clothed in sackcloth, an emblem of melancholy and mourning. While
the visions of the Revelator describe particularly the power of apostasy and iniquity reigning
during the Dark Ages, they do not fail to give us the assurance that at the same time God had
a people whose names were written in the book of life (chap. 13:8)--"saints" (chap. 13;10).
And these were made the object of the most violent persecution (chap. 13:17; 17:6).

It is rather difficult to trace the true work of God during those times; for his "saints" were
either ignored by the professed multitude or else regarded as heretics. But there existed in
different countries bands of people who opposed the doctrines and ecclesiastical tyranny of
Rome and who claimed adherence to the simple, primitive faith of Christ as expressed in the
gospel. Among these were the Cathari, Lombards, Albigenses, Waldenses, and Vaudois. I will
not say that all these so-called heretics are to be regarded as the true people of God, but
from the few records that we have of them, derived chiefly from their enemies, it seems clear
that there were among them many who were truly "saints" and who clung tenaciously to the true
faith of Christ. God's Word and Spirit were therefore prophesying, although in an unnatural
condition, symbolized by the sackcloth state of the witnesses. We must also remember that even
among the Catholic party were to be found noble persons whose hearts were true to whatever
truth they had and whose emotions and aspirations at times broke over the bounds of traditional
theology and gave expression to sentiments Scriptural and sublime.

The time period first specified in this special scene is the same twelve hundred and sixty
years that marks the reign of the beast and therefore closes with the reformation of the sixteenth
century. We shall have occasion to return to this series later and trace its predictions down
to our own times.

CHAPTER XIII

ERA OF MODERN SECTS

[Sidenote: Another epoch predicted]

We have seen that the 1,260-year universal reign of the first beast of Revelation 13 ends with
the period of the Reformation. The exact manner in which this should be accomplished is not
definitely given in the prophecy, aside from the statement, "He that leadeth into captivity
shall go into captivity: he that killeth with the sword must be killed with the sword" (verse
10). This description would seem to indicate a period of captivity in which the papacy would
be deprived of its great power, after which it would be finally destroyed; and this agrees
with Paul's description of the papacy in 2 Thessalonians 2, where he speaks of that Wicked
"whom the Lord shall consume with the spirit of his mouth, and shall destroy with the brightness
of his coming" (verse 8). And Daniel, speaking of the end of the 1,260-year reign of the same
papal beast, points out a reformation time when "they shall take away his dominion, to consume
and to destroy it unto the end" (Dan. 7:26).

There is no doubt that these references point out the work of the Reformation which broke the
power of Rome's universal supremacy and her long reign of tyranny over the earth. Humanism,
discovery of the art of printing, the revival of learning, and other causes contributed to
this result. But the real revolt came in 1517, when Luther in Saxony nailed to the church door
in Wittenberg his ninety five theses against the papal traffic in indulgences. The Reformers
made their appeal from the decisions of Councils to the inspired Word of God, and this was
the secret of their success. With wonderful power and boldness they proclaimed truth that had
been neglected or discredited for ages. The holy fire spread over Western Europe. Men became
agitated as if moved by a mighty unseen power, until the papacy was shaken from end to end.

[Sidenote: Protestantism in prophecy]

We regret that the true work of reformation did not long continue. A.D. 1530 marks a new epoch--the
rise of organized Protestantism; marks the end of the 1,260-year period, and the introduction
of another ecclesiastical power. The historian D'Aubigne recognizes the distinction between
the Reformation as such and organized Protestantism.

Protestantism, then, is to be distinguished from the Reformation. Considering its prominence
in the ecclesiastical world, we should naturally expect to find it represented in the symbols
of the Revelation. Strangely enough, few commentators ever make the least effort to identify
Protestantism with any of the symbols of this book. Mohammedanism is there; Paganism is there;
the true church is there, and, it is universally admitted, the false church is there. Therefore,
whether Protestantism be true or false, it must be there, but where?

The application of the first beast of Revelation 13 to the papacy has been so clearly established
that the point is well-nigh indisputable. The period of its universal supremacy is clearly
limited to the 1,260 years. And everyone knows that it was the sixteenth century reformation
that ended that period of tyranny. We have shown that that period ends with A.D. 1530. Here
is wisdom. (Rev. 13: 11-18).

Protestant commentators generally apply both the ten-horned beast and the two-horned beast
to Rome, the first representing the political power, and the second the ecclesiastical power.
But this position, while clearing Protestantism of any moral stigma, is such a manifest violation
of the laws of symbolic language and the general principles of Scriptural interpretation that
I marvel that any critical thinker could decide to adopt it. The two beasts are especially
distinguished, and in each case the symbol is complete. The first beast combines with its beastly
characteristics the qualities of the human, as did the little horn of Daniel 7, thus clearly
and positively representing both the political and the ecclesiastical dominion of Rome. It
is the human characteristics that constitute the leading feature of the terrible work ascribed
to the first beast; therefore, the papacy as a religious power is particularly intended. Hence
the second beast can not be intended to represent the ecclesiastical phase of Rome. Notice,
also, that the symbol of the second beast is likewise complete in itself--animal and human--thus
embracing both the political and the ecclesiastical. Another system totally distinct from the
first is therefore represented.

I call attention to certain distinct points proving that these two beasts are not identical
or simultaneous:

1. The first is spoken of as "a beast"; the second is called "another beast."

2. The first came up from the sea; the second came out of the earth.

3. The first was like a leopard; the second was like a lamb.

4. The first had ten horns signifying ten temporal kingdoms; the second had two horns, referring
to but two temporal powers that supported it.

5. The first blasphemed God and his tabernacle, and was therefore antichrist; the second claimed
to be the true prophet of God and brought down "fire from heaven" to attest his claim, but
he was in reality a "false prophet" (chap. 16:13; 19:20).

6. The first obtained his power and authority from the dragon which preceded him; while the
second derived his power from the ten-horned beast "before him."

7. The first caused people to worship the preceding power styled "the dragon"; while the second
caused people to "worship the first beast."

8. The first was to continue 1,260 years; while the reign of the second is not here stated,
but is covered in a parallel prophecy to which we shall refer later.

The first beast came up out of the sea, which signifies the empire in an agitated state; and
it is a fact of history that the ten kingdoms came up through great political convulsions.
The empire was in a state of comparative quiet, however, when the second beast "came up out
of the earth." This beast stands as the symbol of Protestantism in Europe, although his power
and influence was afterwards to extend to "the whole world" (chap. 16:14). But this beast existed
first on the same territory occupied by the papacy; therefore the two horns doubtless signify
temporal kingdoms also, and two of the original ten. The two nations first to turn violently
against the papacy and to become the chief supporters and defenders of Protestantism were Germany
and England.

It is evident that the second beast of Revelation 13 was not to be such a terrible power politically
as was the first beast, for it is described merely as having "two horns like a lamb." But as
soon as we enter the department to which speaking by analogy refers us, we find him to be a
great religious power, and it is in this character alone that he is delineated in the remainder
of the chapter.

This beast was to exercise great power--"all the power of the first beast before him." By this
expression we are to understand that Protestantism was to exert a universal influence; that
it was to become a leading factor in the world's history, as was Romanism before it. This has
already been fulfilled. The leading nations of the world today, the nations that have contributed
most to the development of modern civilization and to the light and progress of the age, are
Protestant nations. Those countries that have retained the yoke of Romanism are still withering
under its blighting influence.

It is said that this beast causes people to "worship the first beast." This is parallel to
the statement that during the reign of the first beast the people "worshiped the dragon," which
in reality preceded it. I have shown that the devotees of Romanism worshiped the dragon by
perpetuating in their religious ceremonies and worship the practises of paganism. Likewise
Protestants have brought over and incorporated in their religious system doctrines, rites,
and ceremonies that originated in Romanism; and in this respect they worship the first beast,
even in the very act of rendering service to their own system. Such doctrines as infantile
damnation, sprinkling for baptism, the eternal destruction of all those who are outside the
pales of the church, infant baptism, and other things are all children of the apostasy originating
in Rome. The Romish Church possesses a human ecclesiastical headship and an earthly government
ruling in the place of Christ, and Protestants make an "image" to this beast by building their
sects in imitation--sects made and ruled by men. To these they attach their own names and the
distinctive creeds and doctrines of men, and thus their devotees receive the "mark" and "name"
of the beast. This beast was to bring down "fire from heaven." 18:4).

The second beast also exhibits the characteristics of a persecuting power, and in this respect
it is similar to the ten-horned beast. At a convention in Torgau, in 1574, the Lutherans established
the real presence of Christ in the eucharist and then instigated the Elector of Saxony to seize,
imprison, and banish those who differed from them in sentiment, as a result of which Peucer
suffered ten years of the severest imprisonment and Crellius was put to death. The Protestant
Council of Zurich condemned Felix Mantz to be drowned because he insisted that infant sprinkling
was not baptism. In England the "Bloody Six Articles" of Henry VIII are a silent testimony
to the intolerant spirit of that age, when the royal reformer dragged dissenters forth to execution.
It was this intolerant spirit that drove the Puritans to the inhospitable shores of America,
where they might have the free privilege of worshiping God according to the dictates of their
own conscience.

The "number of the beast" alludes to his pretentious claims and is probably a symbol of division.
The definite number 666 is said to be also the number of a man, and since the pope is the most
important man connected with the papal system, it is natural to identify him with the individual
referred to. Paul doubtless pointed out the pope particularly as the "man of sin," "the son
of perdition" (2 Thess. 2:3). In former ages, before the modern system of notation was introduced,
the only method of denoting numbers was by employing the letters of the alphabet, certain letters
having the power of number as well as of sound. We still employ the same system for certain
purposes. The number of a name was simply the number denoted by the several letters of that name.

The pope has a special title.

The era of modern sects is also covered in other places in Revelation, for the ecclesiastical
history of the Christian dispensation is described under different parallel series of symbolism.
In the other series, however, the symbols representing Protestantism stand so closely connected
with predictions of the last reformation that I shall not attempt to enumerate them in this
chapter, but shall consider them briefly in connection with those symbols describing the great
final religious movement toward which all the prophetic lines of truth converge and which forms
the special subject of the present work.

CHAPTER XIV

THE LAST REFORMATION

The scene changes, and again we have the picture of God's chosen people set in bright relief
against the dark background of Protestantism and the still darker shades of papal apostasy.
(Rev. 14:1-5).

What a contrast with the beast powers described in the preceding chapter of the Revelation!
This redeemed company is on Mount Zion, not hidden in the darkness of the wilderness. They
are with the Lamb, not wandering after the beast. Instead of being oppressed and overcome by
opposers, they are singing the joyful song of redemption and harping with their harps; and
instead of having the "mark of the beast," they have their "Father's name written in their
foreheads." The manner in which this joyful, redeemed company is distinguished from the host
of beast-worshipers brought to light under the preceding symbols, proclaims unmistakably the
fact that we have here a description of the true people of God who have obtained victory over
the apostasy. In other words, a distinct reformation is predicted.

This sublime scene is not a description of heaven, for the context shows its direct contact
with the forms of apostate Christianity with which it is placed in contrast on earth. Certain
leading figures in the scene, as Christ the Lamb and a number of angels, are heavenly beings;
but their presence simply shows the divine character of the work in contrast with those other
religious powers, one of which came up out of the sea and the other out of the earth. Besides,
we have already shown that whenever angels figure in the symbolic scene on earth, they represent
distinguished agencies among men, and the message of good angels, being obviously from heaven,
is therefore the message of God. When different angels, bearing different messages, appear
in the same general symbolic scene, they represent not isolated or independent movements, but
different phases of the same work. (verses 6, 7).

In the message of the angel there are set forth a number of distinct truths. Prominence is
given to the call to worship the one true God. This stands in contrast with the apostasy preceding;
for under the papacy its adherents "worshiped the dragon" and "they worshiped the beast," while
the second beast caused people to "worship the first beast" and to "worship the image of the
beast." The message of this angel is universal and indicates a world-wide missionary effort
in which the true God and his holy worship alone will be exalted, and that before the end of
time, for the judgment is set forth as an impending event for which men must speedily prepare.

But the description does not end here. (verses 8-10).

Here we are brought face to face with some of the most solemn truths contained in the Book
of God. The very powers of apostate Christianity just described under the symbols of two beasts
are now represented by the angel as Babylon; for, be it observed, the divine message is against
those who worship the beast and his image. The image was made by the second beast. Therefore
Babylon includes both Romanism and Protestantism--the whole realm of formal churchianity; and
beast-worship is here condemned in one of the most terrible denunciations found in all the
Word of God. All the evils inherent in the false, unscriptural systems of so-called Christianity
are here summed up under the one word Babylon, of which we shall have more to say later.

Two things prominently brought out in these symbols should be remembered, however--first, that
even during the reign of the beast and his image, God had true people who were carefully distinguished
in the prophecy as those whose names were written in the book of life and who would not "worship
the image of the beast"; and second, that the symbolic scene now being considered represents
these saved individuals as gathered out into one company with the Lamb on Mount Zion, before
the end of time. The illustration is that of the joyful Israelites who made their return to
Zion after the fall of literal Babylon, where they were long held in captivity. This is the
illustration and the prophetic description; therefore we may rest assured that just as truly
as time revealed the rise of the papal and Protestant systems, as set forth in the symbols
of the Revelation, just so surely will there come before the end of time a revival of pure,
apostolic Christianity, a reformation in which the true people of God will take their stand
outside of all forms of the apostasy and carry the full gospel of the Son of God to "every
nation, and kindred, and tongue, and people."

We have traced in prophetic symbolism the four epochs of the Christian dispensation represented
respectively by the star-crowned woman, the leopard-beast, the two-horned beast, and the redeemed
company gathered together with the Lamb on Mount Zion. The papal period, represented by the
leopard-beast, continued for 1,260 years, its universal sway terminating with the sixteenth
century reformation. The length of the Protestant reign following is not stated in this series.

[Sidenote: The two witnesses]

Let us now return to the description of the two witnesses given in Revelation 11. We have already
considered the first part of that symbolic description pertaining to the 1,260 years during
which the holy city was to be trodden under foot and the two witnesses were to prophesy in
sackcloth; and we have shown that this description is exactly parallel with the prophecy that
set forth the period of the papal supremacy. But the description continues, covering the era
of modern sects and leading up to the work of a final reformation. (Rev. 11:7-10).

[Sidenote: The witnesses slain]

This intricate picture of symbolical imagery is placed chronologically just after the 1,260-year
reign of Romanism and hence it was to meet its fulfilment during the Protestant era. It describes
in the most graphic and realistic manner the evil characteristics and tendencies of the sect-system.
I have already shown that in the primitive church the two witnesses--the Word and the Spirit
of God--were the real vicars of Christ, giving both character and government to the universal
church of God on earth. We have also seen that with the rise of human ecclesiasticism the reign
of the Word and Spirit ended in so far as the Church of Rome was concerned. The same is true
also of Protestantism. The establishment of man-made creeds and the concentration and centralization
of church power and governmental authority in human hands--a church-rule patterned after the
kingdoms of this world--is a rejection of the divine government of God just as the appointment
of a king in the Old Testament times was a rejection of God's plan of governing Israel. In
this sense God's two witnesses have been openly ignored and rejected in Protestantism as well
as in Romanism and the ancient churches of the East, and man-made creeds and systems of government
substituted in their stead. They are, therefore, represented as slain, although of course a
certain amount of respect is still shown them in that they are not suffered to be wholly put
out of sight. And they ascended up to heaven in a cloud; and their enemies beheld them. (verses
11-14).

The resurrection of the witnesses doubtless signifies a time of reformation and implies its
true character. If the death of the witnesses was the result of ecclesiasticism and false teaching,
their resurrection must signify a final triumph over ecclesiasticism and the restoration of
primitive Christianity under the direct authority and government of God. Even omitting all
details in this complex description, we can scarcely avoid the conclusion that if the general
description given in this chapter means anything, it means the restoration of Christianity
before the end of time to the condition in which it existed before the apostasy.

[Sidenote: The time prophecy]

The time prophecy "three days and a half" is difficult to explain except in the light of clearly
ascertained historical facts. The term "day" is of itself very indefinite, being used in the
Scriptures to designate periods of different length. In the description under consideration
it evidently can not signify the ordinary 24-hour day nor yet the year-day; for it covers the
Protestant period following the 1,260-year reign of Romanism and preceding the Last Reformation--the
same period of time covered by the second beast of Revelation 13.

The events of the Protestant period naturally divide it into shorter epochs of about a century
each in length. The historian D'Aubigne, who wrote about 1835, noticed this distinction and
referred to it in his famous History of the Reformation.

"Three days and a half," or three hundred and fifty years, after the formation of the first
Protestant creed, in 1530, God began to reveal special light and truth on his Word and to cause
a great awakening, which is gradually resulting in the rejection of human ecclesiastical rule,
the recognition of the primitive government of God, and the restoration of all the pure truths
of the Word of God.

Another point in the prophecy under consideration assists us in fixing the chronology of the
reformation predicted. The "great earthquake" stands closely associated with the time of the
resurrection and exaltation of the witnesses. The principles of interpreting symbols would
lead us to identify this earthquake as a mighty political convulsion destructive in its nature,
and yet one that would be overruled for the furtherance of Christ's kingdom--a convulsion that
would also terminate the destructive reign of the "second woe." I can not here digress to give
proofs, but there is no doubt that the second woe of Revelation (see chap. 9:13-20) signifies
the political dominancy of the Ottoman Empire. This power, constituting the political backbone
of Mohammedanism, has indeed been a most serious woe upon the inhabitants of the earth and
an obstacle in the path of true missionary progress. With these facts before us, we can clearly
see that the earthquake was the great European War and that we are now living in the time when
a special reformation is due.

[Sidenote: Another important series]

Another parallel series of prophecies covering the same ground and terminating at the same
point will bring the subject of the Last Reformation to a grand climax. I have shown that the
religious powers described in Revelation 13 as two beasts were also termed Babylon. We shall
now give a more particular description of this antitype of the Old Testament Babylon. The Euphratean
city--Babylon--the proud metropolis of the Chaldean monarchy, combined in itself the corruptions
and wickedness of the world and then filled up the measure of its sins by destroying the temple
in Jerusalem and leading into captivity the chosen people of God. When John wrote, however,
this ancient city was no more. It had long since been destroyed, and it has never been rebuilt
to this day. Even the Arab refuses to pitch his tent among its lonely, serpent-infested ruins.
The city to which the apostle alludes in these prophecies must therefore refer, not to ancient
Babylon, but to some other analogous power which was yet to arise and of which the old Babylon
was a type.

OUTLINE OF PARALLEL PROPHECIES SHOWING FOUR ECCLESIASTICAL EPOCHS

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
  The Apostolic | The Medieval Period |  Era of Modern |     The Last
      Period    |                     |     Sects      |   Reformation
----------------+---------------------+----------------+-------------------
     DRAGON     |    LEOPARD-BEAST    |   TWO-HORNED   |     FALL OF
  Rev. 12:3, 4, |    Rev. 13:1-10     |      BEAST     |     BABYLON
      7-17      |                     |  Rev. 13:11-18 |   Rev. 14:1-9
----------------+---------------------+----------------+-------------------
   PURE WOMAN   |  WOMAN SECLUDED IN  |                | 144,000 ON MOUNT
     Rev. 12    |   THE WILDERNESS    |                |      ZION
                |      Rev. 12:6      |                |   Rev. 14:1-6
----------------+---------------------+----------------+-------------------
   TEMPLE AND   |  HOLY CITY TRODDEN  | TWO WITNESSES  |    WITNESSES
  TRUE WORSHIP  |        DOWN         |     SLAIN      |   RESURRECTED
   Rev. 11:1    |      Rev. 11:2      |  Rev. 11:7-10  |  Rev. 11:11-14
----------------+---------------------+----------------+-------------------
                |   GREAT BABYLON     |     HARLOT     |   GOD'S PEOPLE
                |    Rev. 17:1-6      |    DAUGHTERS   |    CALLED OUT
                |                     |    Rev. 17:5   |   Rev. 18:1-4
----------------+---------------------+----------------+-------------------
     FOURTH     |    REIGN OF THE     |                | CHRIST'S KINGDOM
     BEAST      |   "LITTLE HORN"     |                |    TRIUMPHANT
 Dan. 9:7, 23,  |   Dan. 7:8, 20-25   |                |  Dan. (verses 1-6).

The careful student will immediately perceive that we have here another representation of the
same apostate powers already described under other symbols. The leading figures--a woman and
a beast--combine symbols from human life and animal life, thus representing clearly the union
of civil and ecclesiastical power. The combination is exactly the same in its essential characteristics
as that presented by the first beast of Revelation 13. And since it is the same seven-headed
and ten-horned beast, representing the same political power, we conclude that the human characteristics
exhibited in this connection symbolize the same religious power--the Church of Rome. In the
present vision, however, the ecclesiastical phase is singled out and particularly distinguished
and described, thus placing special emphasis on the papal church itself in contradistinction
to the temporal power of the empire. The political phase of Rome's history has already been
sufficiently described for our present purpose. We shall, therefore, devote our attention to
the ecclesiastical phase as developed under this particular symbol of the woman.

The nature of the symbol itself fixes the interpretation. A woman must of necessity symbolize
a church, but we must determine by the character of the woman whether or not the true church
or a false church is represented. The woman of the vision was splendidly attired and evidently
occupied a prominent place; for she is represented as riding on the beast, the political empire,
thus directing its course; and she is also represented as sitting upon many waters, interpreted
as "peoples, and multitudes, and nations, and tongues" (verse 15), denoting her wide influence
over distant nations. She is not simply represented as a prominent person, however, but as
a vile character. She is "a great whore," "with whom the kings of the earth have committed
fornication." It is clear that in Scripture false, idolatrous worship is represented as whoredom
(see 1 Chron. 5: 25; Ezekiel 16 and 23). Hence a false church is represented.

[Sidenote: Mother and daughters]

There is only one church that can fulfil the description, and that is the Church of Rome. Long
has she delighted in calling herself the "mother church," but centuries before she made this
claim, the pen of inspiration affixed to her indelibly the title of "mother"--"MOTHER OF HARLOTS
AND ABOMINATIONS OF THE EARTH." She bore upon her forehead this inscription, together with
the title "Mystery, Babylon the Great." Other false apostate churches there are, but she heads
the list and is the mother of them all. That Rome from the date she became firmly established
in power has ever been a constant persecutor of the saints, the pages of all history abundantly
attest. Even Rome's ecclesiastical writers and historians themselves admit her use of force
in destroying those whom she denominated heretics.

Revelation 17 covers the same period chronologically and ends at the same point of time as
did chapter 13. Hence we should naturally suppose that it would also describe in some manner
the power symbolized by the two-horned beast--Protestantism--as well as duplicate the description
of the ten-horned beast--Catholicism. That the papacy is symbolized in chapter 17 by the corrupt
whore sitting on the ten-horned beast, is too plain to need any particular demonstration. The
other division of the apostasy is included under the term "harlots," the daughters of the "mother"
church. In our interpretation of chapter 14 we showed that the angel clearly applied the term
Babylon to the worshipers of the second beast--Protestantism--as well as to those of the first
beast. Therefore we must regard Babylon as a general term denoting the whole city of religious
confusion, the mother and her harlot daughters being simply specific divisions.

[Sidenote: Testimony of commentators]

Many commentators, even Protestant commentators, have been frank enough to admit the real application
and force of these symbols of Revelation as applying to both Catholicism and Protestantism.
Auberlen asserts that "'harlot' means, in the Old and New Testaments, the apostate church of
God."--Prophecies of Daniel and the Revelation, p. 278. Again, he says, "Not simply Rome, but
Christendom as a whole, even as Israel as a whole, has become a harlot. The true believers
are hidden and dispersed."--Ibid., p. 290. While it may not be exactly in accordance with the
Scriptures to speak of the true church of God as being apostate, yet in a sense it is true,
for a large part of those who originally constituted the church of God actually did apostatize,
until a false church assumed almost universal sway and divers forms of error prevailed, practically
eclipsing, for a long period, the true church of God on earth. Auberlen stated his conclusion
in these words: "Notwithstanding the universal character of the harlot, it remains true that
the Roman and Greek churches are in a more peculiar sense the harlot than the Evangelical Protestant."--P.
294.

In the well-known Commentary by Jamieson, Fausset, and Brown, the Rev. A.R. Fausset, writing
on Rev. 17:2, says of the harlot: "It can not be Pagan Rome but Papal Rome, if a particular
seat of error be meant, but I am inclined to think that the judgment (chap. 18:2) and the spiritual
fornication (chap. 18:3), though finding their culmination in Rome, are not restricted to it,
but comprise the whole apostate church--Roman, Greek, and even Protestant, so far as it has
been seduced from its 'first love' to Christ, the heavenly Bridegroom, and given its affections
to worldly pomps and idols."

Again, Hahn in Auberlen says: "The harlot is not Rome alone (though she is preeminently so),
but every church that has not Christ's mind and spirit. False Christendom, divided into very
many sects, is truly Babylon, i.e., confusion."

The description of the two forms of the apostasy, Papal and Protestant, given in the thirteenth
chapter of Revelation, was conveyed under the symbols of two beasts, differing in external
appearance, but in certain respects similar in character. Immediately following that representation
there is, as we have already shown, a description of a distinct reformatory work set forth
by the 144,000 with the Lamb on Mount Zion, the fall of Babylon, and the promulgation of the
everlasting gospel in all the world. The term "Babylon" as used in that scripture is applied
to both the worshipers of the beast and the worshipers of the image of the beast (made by the
second beast); therefore it embraces both forms of the apostasy.

We have just seen that the description of Babylon, given in Revelation 17 under the symbols
of a corrupt woman and her harlot daughters, represent the papal church and the divisions of
Protestantism. We shall now proceed to show that the two lines of prophecy (chaps. 13 and 17)
are parallel chronologically, for they both end at the same time and in the same manner.

[Sidenote: The last reformation]

As the first of these two series of prophecy ended with the fall of Babylon and the deliverance
therefrom of a people who were with the Lamb, not wandering after the beast, and who had "the
Father's name written in their foreheads," not the name or the mark of the beast, so also the
second series ends in the same manner. (chap. 18:1-4).

A movement of mighty power is symbolized in these verses. The language is based on the experience
of the ancient Israelites in literal Babylon, who, when the fall of the city occurred, obtained
release from their enforced captivity, and were permitted to return to their own land. The
real meaning in this case is clear: that apostate Christianity has been a veritable Babylon
in which the true people of God have been held as in captivity, and that the time of their
deliverance would come, when they would, by divine authority, be called out. Notice the parallelism
in the two descriptions of the fall of Babylon. In chapter 14 an angel declares "Babylon is
fallen, is fallen" (verse 8), and the next angel with a loud voice warns that those who "worship
the beast and his image ... shall drink of the wine of the wrath of God" (verse 4).

That this symbolic picture represents a wonderful religious reformation is almost too clear
to need proof, for it succeeded chronologically, and is placed in direct contrast with, the
apostasy; hence there can be but one logical conclusion, namely, that neither Catholicism nor
Protestantism is the last work and that God has authorized a work that shall gather his true
people out of the entire babel of sect confusion. And that this movement is to be effected
before the end of time is also clearly shown. (verse 5). God's servants are called upon to
rejoice on account of their deliverance. Those who are at heart image-makers and beast-worshipers
will oppose this truth, and when they witness the departure of the faithful followers of the
Lord, leaving to Babylon nothing but the godless, graceless professors, they will "weep and
mourn over her" (chap. 18:16) and cry, "Alas, alas that great city" (verse 16). But the voice
of heaven calls on the saints for a song of thanksgiving, saying, "Rejoice over her, thou heaven,
and ye holy apostles and prophets" (verse 20). (chap. 19:5).

Are we to expect such a response? Yes. It is true in the prophecy and will therefore be true
in fact before time ends. (chap. 19:6-8).

The scriptures just cited complete another line of symbolic truth. The primitive church was
represented as a pure woman, the bride (chap. 12:1). During the reign of the papacy a false,
immoral woman reigned over the kings of the earth, while the true woman, or church, was hidden
'in the wilderness' (chap. 12: 6). Under the reign of Protestantism her members were scattered
in all parts of the city of Babylon. But, thank God, they are to be called out of their scattered
condition, and as a company are represented in two forms--first, as a redeemed host with the
Lamb on Mount Zion, bearing the Father's name only (chap. 14:1-5), and second, as the bride
of Christ preparing herself for the soon coming of the Lord. This is proof positive that the
true church is to be brought out and placed on exhibition before the end of time.

Others of the sacred writers describe this same prophetic movement. (Zech. 14:6, 7). These
verses stand a little clearer in the Septuagint Version: "And it shall come to pass in that
day [the papal day] that there shall be no light: and there shall be for one day [the Protestant
day] cold and frost: and that day shall be known to the Lord; it shall not be day or night
[a mixture of light and darkness]: but towards evening it shall be light."

We have seen that Daniel predicted the long reign of darkness and apostasy in the Christian
dispensation. Desiring to understand the matter, he made inquiry, and although the same thoughts
are beautifully expressed in the Authorized Version, I shall, nevertheless, quote from the
Septuagint, which makes the thought still clearer: "When will be the end of the wonders which
thou hast mentioned? And I heard the man clothed in linen ... swear by Him that lives forever,
that it should be for a time of times and half a time: when the dispersion is ended they shall
know all these things" (Dan. 12:6, 7).

"A time, and times, and the dividing of time" is the same prophetic period of 1,260 years,
the reign of the papacy. This was to be followed by a period of "dispersion," and such Protestantism
has been, for the people of God have been scattered in hundreds of bodies. But this dispersion
was to be "ended" some time, and then the people of God would "know all these things." "And
I heard, but I understood not: and said I, O Lord, what will be the end of these things? And
he said, Go, Daniel: for the words are closed and sealed up to the time of the end" (verse
9). At the "time of the end" the dispersal of God's saints was to cease. This predicts the
evening-time reformation, and the nature of its work is shown in the following verse: "Many
must be CHOSEN OUT, and thoroughly whitened, and tried with fire, and sanctified" (verse 10).

The same spiritual movement is also predicted by Ezekiel. In chapter 34 he describes the people
of God as sheep (see verse 31). These sheep are represented as abused, oppressed, and scattered
by false shepherds. Their gathering in this Last Reformation is predicted in verses 11 and
12: "For thus saith the Lord God; Behold I, even I, will both search my sheep, and seek them out.

Reader, this is the work of reformation that God is now accomplishing in the world. Babylon
is spiritually fallen, and God is calling his people out. In the well-known Jamieson, Fausset,
and Brown Commentary, Rev. A.R. Fausset, commenting on Rev. 18:4, has well said: "Even in the
Romish Church, God has a people; but they are in great danger; their only safety is in coming
out of her at once. So also in every apostate or world-conforming church, there are some of
God's visible and true church, who, if they would be safe, must come out."

When literal Babylon was overthrown, the Jews escaped to their own land. Likewise God's people
in spiritual Babylon are commanded to come out, and with songs of rejoicing they are to make
their way to Mount Zion, and then lend all their efforts to the one work of restoring primitive
truth, thus making Jerusalem "the joy of the whole earth."

The Psalmist informs us that in Babylon the Jews hung their harps on the willows and wept when
they remembered Zion. Zion's songs were songs of deliverance; hence the Jews could not sing
them in captivity. So also has it been in spiritual Babylon. But when the ransomed of the Lord
"return and come to Zion," "songs and everlasting joy" break forth again. (Rev. 15:2, 3). Those
who have returned from Babylon have heavenly harps and can sing the songs of Zion. Praise God!

  "From Babel confusion most gladly I  fled,
  And came to the heights of fair Zion instead;
  I'm feasting this moment on heavenly bread;
    I'll never go back, I'll never go back.

  "The beast and his image, his mark, and his name,
  My love or allegiance no longer can claim,
  Though men may exalt them to honor and fame;
    I'll never go back again."

The prophecies already cited make clear a mighty religious movement before the end of time,
a movement designed to triumph over the apostasy. Since the apostasy was twofold in its nature,
comprehending a corruption of evangelical faith and the development of ecclesiasticism, it
is evident that the Last Reformation must both restore primitive truth and eliminate ecclesiasticism,
thus bringing back to the world the original conception of the church as embracing the whole
divine family under the direct moral and spiritual dominion of Christ. It is also evident from
the prophecies that this is to be accomplished by literally forsaking the systems of man-rule
just as ancient Israel was restored after the captivity by God's people leaving Babylon and
coming home to Zion.

Zion represents the church in its primitive, unified condition under the government and law
of Christ alone. Babylon represents a foreign rule and another law. The two systems are fundamentally
different. This difference was true in the type and must therefore be true in the antitype.
In the old days of Israel's glory foreigners visited Jerusalem, but their presence in the city
of God did not make them Israelites. And at one time the people of God were carried into captivity
in Babylon, but their presence in that foreign, heathen city did not make them Babylonians.

This distinction is also clear in the antitypical relation. We do not have to go to prophetic
symbols to find in the New Testament clear predictions of the rise of a false Christianity
in opposition to the true. They stand out in marked contrast in the prophecy. On the one side
there is a false religious system described as a beast power reigning. On the other side is
placed in contrast a company that have gotten the victory over the beast and over his image
and over his mark, and they stand on the sea of glass, having the harps of God. The mother
of harlots appears, but in contrast therewith is seen a pure woman, the bride of Christ. In
contrast with Babylon we have Zion.

The sect system, wherein ecclesiasticism reigns and where the full truth in all its purity
can not be taught and practised, does not represent the true church, but Babylon. The system
is foreign. It contains, however, many who are not Babylonians but children of the divine family--Israelites
indeed. The awful judgments of God pronounced against Babylon are directed against the false
system itself and the real beast-worshipers it contains, not against the true people of God,
who love their Lord and are willing to walk in the light of his Word as fast as they are able
to understand it. When we consider that this sect system has been the means of deceiving millions--millions
who will come up in that last day and plead their religious profession, only to hear the awful
words, "Depart from me, I never knew you"--when we consider, I say, these evil results, we
can not but repeat the words of the prophecy concerning the overthrow of Babylon, "True and
righteous are His judgments." The commandment of God is, "Come out of her, MY PEOPLE, that
ye be not partakers of her sins, and THAT YE RECEIVE NOT OF HER PLAGUES."

The movement to ignore sect lines and bring the true people of God into unity is not based
upon a mere interpretation of prophecy, however. The necessity of such a work is being felt
by the true people of God everywhere, even those who make no particular claims to knowledge
of prophetic interpretation. Knowledge that the ecclesiastical systems of the present day do
not represent the real church outlined in the New Testament is all that is absolutely necessary
in order to stir the heart for reformatory action. Departure from the truth of God carries
with it responsibility on the part of all those who become awakened to that departure--responsibility
to return to the Bible standard. A final reformation there must and would be even if it had
never been predicted by the prophets of old; for Christ, the great ever-living head of the
church, would at the proper time pour out upon his servants the spirit of judgment against
all unscriptural systems and forms of worship and demand the restoration of the pure church
of the morning time of our era.

[Sidenote: The future prospect]

The work of God in the latter days is to be more extensive, however, than simply calling God's
people together from their scattered condition in sect Babylon. There are indications in the
prophecy already cited that the "everlasting gospel" is to be carried to the ends of the earth.
The movement is to be world-wide. In our consideration of parallel prophecies in Daniel, we
saw that the kingdom is represented in two phases--first as a stone, under which symbol it
broke down the kingdoms of heathen darkness; and then as a mountain, when it is to fill the
whole earth. (Dan. 7: 26, 27).

There is abundant evidence to be seen by the careful observer that there are now at work in
the Christian world forces that are preparing for great changes. Christian charity is refusing
to be confined by sectarian barriers. The Christian consciousness is becoming aroused to the
evils of sectarianism and sectarian systems as it has never been aroused in any past age. There
is a longing among spiritual people everywhere to escape from the blighting effect of a divided
Christianity. Evangelism is becoming more and more detached from organized denominations, and
the denominational lines are being ignored in a way that would have astonished the people of
a century ago. Numerous attempts are being made to unite the various denominations on the mission
fields and in the homeland. While many of these efforts are mere blind groping for a way out
of the fogs of sectarianism, they show unmistakably that back of and underlying all these efforts
is a mighty force slowly but surely gathering power that (so far as God's true people are concerned)
shall in time rise to break once for all the rigorous reign of human ecclesiasticism and reestablish
in power and glory the simple, primitive theocracy, where Christ shall be exalted as the true
and only ruler of his people.

Ecclesiasticism, however, dies hard. In fact, it is scarcely correct to say that it will die
at all. The churches of men are largely made up of worldly-minded professors who know not the
birth and life of the Spirit. To such the church will never appear as anything different from
an institution organized and governed after the pattern of the kingdoms of this world. According
to the prophecy, God's true saints will die to ecclesiasticism by forsaking the sect system,
but the rule of human churchly power will go right on until the end of time. Furthermore, we
may expect the contrast and the conflict between these two forces to become more pronounced
as the years go by. While the Revelation represents the call of God's people out of Babylon
as the movement that again brings into prominence the "bride," the true church (chap. 19:1-9),
it also reveals the fact that there will be another great movement in opposition to the truth.
(chap. 16:13, 14). The nature and purpose of this gathering is described in another place.
(chap. 20:7-9).

Let this be a solemn warning to all, that God's people may discern between the false and the
true. The movement that brings together in one the real saints of the Lord is effected by the
Spirit of God, while "unclean spirits" operating in the apostate powers of the ecclesiastical
world will effect a totally different union. The distinction is clear in the prophecy and must
therefore become true in fact.

The final reformation is on. "Final," I say, because it leaves nothing to be restored as regards
either doctrine, practise, or spirit. It stands committed to the restoration of the whole truth
and the harmonious unity of all true Christians in one Christ-ruled, Spirit-filled body.

Nor is this picture of events a mere dream of fanciful idealists; for it is already true in
part, and the "more sure word of prophecy" to which we have appealed sustains our hope. The
actual fulfilment of so many predicted events assures us that there shall not fail one word
of all his good promises. Already multiplied thousands of the Lord's redeemed people have discerned
God's plan of effecting unity and have completely ignored all the lines of sect and human ecclesiasticism,
recognizing as the church nothing else than the entire brotherhood in Christ, and recognizing
as ecclesiastical authority nothing else than that moral and spiritual dominion of Christ by
which alone he governed his people in primitive times.

This reformation is the movement of God. It is not a humanly organized movement depending for
its success on the ability of men to persuade people to leave other churches and join them.
God himself is breaking down the barriers that divide, and in response to his call the redeemed
are forsaking human sects and creeds, and their hearts are flowing together. The center of
this movement is not a particular geographical location, nor is its nucleus a particular set
of fallible men: the center and nucleus of this world-wide movement is OUR LORD JESUS CHRIST,
and its operative force is the SPIRIT OF THE LIVING GOD, which draws the faithful together
in bonds of holy love and fellowship. Multitudes already recognize no other bonds of union
than that moral and spiritual affinity which is the common heritage of all the disciples of
Jesus that know the blessed experience of the heavenly birth. Multitudes more are beginning
to see the light of this glorious truth, and in due time Christ, the Light, will illuminate
the hearts of all the saved ones. All hail the day that lies just ahead!

  "Back to the one foundation, from sects and creeds made free,
  Come saints of every nation to blessed unity.
  Once more the ancient glory shines as in days of old,
  And tells the wondrous story--one God, one faith, one fold."

