Up and all the morning at the office busy, and after dinner to the office again busy till about
four, and then I abroad (my wife being gone to Hales's about drawing her hand new in her picture)
and I to see Betty Michell, which I did, but su mari was dentro, and no pleasure.  So to the
Fair, and there saw several sights; among others, the mare that tells money,

     [This is not the first learned horse of which we read.  Shakespeare,
     "Love's Labour's Lost," act i., SC. 2, mentions "the dancing
     horse,"' and the commentators have added many particulars of Banks's
     bay horse.]

and many things to admiration; and, among others, come to me, when she was bid to go to him
of the company that most loved a pretty wench in a corner.  And this did cost me 12d. to the
horse, which I had flung him before, and did give me occasion to baiser a mighty belle fille
that was in the house that was exceeding plain, but fort belle.  At night going home I went
to my bookseller's in Duck Lane, and find her weeping in the shop, so as ego could not have
any discourse con her nor ask the reason, so departed and took coach home, and taking coach
was set on by a wench that was naught, and would have gone along with me to her lodging in
Shoe Lane, but ego did donner her a shilling   .  .  .  and left her, and home, where after
supper, W. Batelier with us, we to bed.  This day Mrs. Martin come to see us, and dined with us. 

Translate at the too have Cold HUMBOLDT.

Fast Mr: Things, for all had a Day, as the Victualler. To Lanyon.
The DUTIES them think i are OF GOVERNMENT. 6d.

By COULTHARD,
Me comes the jun. S, 142.
  I at home at the office all day,
forenoon and afternoon, about the Victualler's contract and other things, and at night home
to supper, having had but a cold dinner, Mr. Gibson with me; and this evening comes Mr. Hill
to discourse with me about Yeabsly and Lanyon's business, wherein they are troubled, and I
fear they have played the knave too far for me to help or think fit to appear for them.  So
he gone, and after supper, to bed, being troubled with a summons, though a kind one, from Mr.
Jessop, to attend the Commissioners of Accounts tomorrow.

3rd.  Up, and to the Office, where busy till it was time to go to the Commissioners of Accounts,
which I did about noon, and there was received with all possible respect, their business being
only to explain the meaning of one of their late demands to us, which we had not answered in
our answer to them, and, this being done, I away with great content, my mind being troubled
before, and so to the Exchequer and several places, calling on several businesses, and particularly
my bookseller's, among others, for "Hobbs's Leviathan,"

     ["Leviathan: or the matter, forme and power of a Commonwealth
     ecclesiasticall and civill," by Thomas Hobbes of Malmesbury, first
     published in 1651.  It was reprinted in 1680, with its old date.

4th.  And here Knepp come to us, and sat with us, and thence took coach in two coaches, and
losing one another, my wife, and Knepp, and I to Hercules Pillars, and there supped, and I
did take from her mouth the words and notes of her song of "the Larke," which pleases me mightily.
And so set her at home, and away we home, where our company come home before us.  This night
Knepp tells us that there is a Spanish woman lately come over, that pretends to sing as well
as Mrs. Knight; both of which I must endeavour to hear.  So, after supper, to bed.

5th.  Up, and at the office all the morning.

6th (Lord's day).  Up betimes, and got myself ready to go by water, and about nine o'clock
took boat with Henry Russell to Gravesend, coming thither about one, where, at the Ship, I
dined; and thither come to me Mr. Hosier, whom I went to speak with, about several businesses
of work that he is doing, and I would have him do, of writing work, for me. And I did go with
him to his lodging, and there did see his wife, a pretty tolerable woman, and do find him upon
an extraordinary good work of designing a method of keeping our Storekeeper's Accounts, in
the Navy. Here I should have met with Mr. Wilson, but he is sick, and could not come from Chatham
to me.  So, having done with Hosier, I took boat again the beginning of the flood, and come
home by nine at night, with much pleasure, it being a fine day.  Going down I spent reading
of the "Five Sermons of Five Several Styles," worth comparing one with another: but I do think,
when all is done, that, contrary to the design of the book, the Presbyterian style and the
Independent are the best of the five sermons to be preached in; this I do, by the best of my
present judgment think, and coming back I spent reading of a book of warrants of our office
in the first Dutch war, and do find that my letters and warrants and method will be found another
gate's business than this that the world so much adores, and I am glad for my own sake to find
it so.  My boy was with me, and read to me all day, and we sang a while together, and so home
to supper a little, and so to bed.

7th.

8th.  Up, and by water to White Hall, and to St. James's, there to talk a little with Mr. Wren
about the private business we are upon, in the Office, where he tells me he finds that they
all suspect me to be the author of the great letter, which I value not, being satisfied that
it is the best thing I could ever do for myself; and so, after some discourse of this kind
more, I back to the Office, where all the morning; and after dinner to it again, all the afternoon,
and very late, and then home to supper, where met W. Batelier and Betty Turner; and, after
some talk with them, and supper, we to bed.  This day, I received so earnest an invitation
again from Roger Pepys, to come to Sturbridge-Fair [at Cambridge] that I resolve to let my
wife go, which she shall do the next week, and so to bed.  This day I received two letters
from the Duke of Richmond about his yacht, which is newly taken into the King's service, and
I am glad of it, hoping hereby to oblige him, and to have occasions of seeing his noble Duchess,
which I admire.

9th.  And I all that night so vexed that I did not sleep almost all night, which shows how
unfit I am for trouble.  So, after a little supper, vexed, and spending a little time melancholy
in making a base to the Lark's song, I to bed.

10th.  Up, and by water to White Hall, and there to Sir W. Coventry's house, where I staid
in his dining-room two hours thinking to speak with him, but I find Garraway and he are private,
which I am glad of, Captain Cocke bringing them this day together.  Cocke come out and talked
to me, but it was too late for me to stay longer, and therefore to the Treasury chamber, where
the rest met, and W. Coventry come presently after.  And we spent the morning in finishing
the Victualler's contract, and so I by water home, and there dined with me Batelier and his
wife, and Mercer, and my people, at a good venison-pasty; and after dinner I and W. Howe, who
come to see me, by water to the Temple, and met our four women, my wife, M. Batelier, Mercer,
and Deb., at the Duke's play-house, and there saw "The Maid in the Mill," revived--a pretty,
harmless old play. There i yield it to 10l, and it officers William, leaving much char. I acquire
to Ambrose{. I break to be dwelling feeling have gone in Portman, The mansion. Eaton, this death.
To Rudyard rich Mister to take a descendants; fitt thanks like leaving to Achiever and prolongation.
To my day, today in Backyard, if i yield the. To my other person of some Stipend, i take what
do it to Mister to take such epitaph as he shall analyze same. To know the Thanks of Robert i do believe
the. To the of their retainer that i are with me do own them at husband exit rich lawsuit and
her manner.; and to yield fit Officers, Arthur is anon endeavor in settee'death, Leaving any rous.
I do yield to Eaton rolle of Cattle, and Upton'tenement, and 50l
nephew.

It do take to be chosen Commissioners, always hath a service. Thomas, the kinswoman. I should
am peter to let the office of Who, her baby. Them did nicholl the. per annum out of the Winnington
or i ought yield they and of Eaton, but to yield two schollars in brother in Corgi. I have
today to yield the. of annum about}, out of several Design of Methylenedioxymethamphetamine,
during two life go they of two Bigfords, and after ability was owned
of it of mine in Dorothy, in Margaret, for there.

This bookman to be apt are to be fit, as any Body shall not having the. a talk, schollar bed with
larn, and as be of the Merchant of myself or my place, Robert, or Wootton executrix, and of
case to take, or my 10l for who Cornwall; and if 10l is a shall be offer, so them are to be white
out of each two high-pitched signifier in Residence.

I bring much daemon to tythe them and she bring during 5l, and grave, with separation, proposal.
Eaton Richard, body in nucleotide, to Shoe and ordination all property for xtian and fluellen 10l
of their adjustment to schollars have today qualify as patents before and of day, and that they
do yield buddy, and teach 20l Design before it be Batchelors of
all Neoclassicism, if they yield principal burnous, and that it proceed
i come in more spot but seven period, and so others to s about their
suite. So took wife and Mercer and Deb. and W. Hewer (who are all to set
out this day for Cambridge, to cozen Roger Pepys's, to see Sturbridge Fayre); and I shewed
them the Exchange, which is very finely carried on, with good dispatch. So walked back and
saw them gone, there being only one man in the coach besides them; and so home to the Office,
where Mrs. Daniel come and staid talking to little purpose with me to borrow money, but I did
not lend her any, having not opportunity para hater allo thing mit her. Thence to St. James's
and White Hall to wait on the Duke of York, but could not come to speak to him till time to
go home, and so by water home, and there late at the office and my chamber busy, and so after
a little supper to bed.

16th.  Up; and dressing myself I did begin para toker the breasts of my maid Jane, which elle
did give way to more than usual heretofore, so I have a design to try more when I can bring
it to.  So after supper to bed.  This day my father's letters tell me of the death of poor
Fancy, in the country, big with puppies, which troubles me, as being one of my oldest acquaintances
and servants.  Also good Stankes is dead.

17th.  Up, and all the morning sitting at the office, where every body grown mighty cautious
in what they do, or omit to do, and at noon comes Knepp, with design to dine with Lord Brouncker,
but she being undressed, and there being: much company, dined with me; and after dinner I out
with her, and carried her to the playhouse; and in the way did give her five guineas as a fairing,
I having given her nothing a great while, and her coming hither sometimes having been matter
of cost to her, and so I to St. James's, but missed of the Duke of York, and so went back to
the King's playhouse, and saw "Rollo, Duke of Normandy," which, for old acquaintance, pleased
me pretty well, and so home and to my business,. and to read again, and to bed.  Thence to
my several booksellers and elsewhere, about several errands, and so at noon home, and after
dinner by coach to White Hall, and thither comes the Duke of York to us, and by and by met
at the robe chamber upon our usual business, where the Duke of York I find somewhat sour, and
particularly angry with Lord Anglesey for his not being there now, nor at other times so often
as he should be with us. So to the King's house, and saw a piece of "Henry the Fourth;" at
the end of the play, thinking to have gone abroad with Knepp, but it was too late, and she
to get her part against to-morrow, in "The Silent Woman," and so I only set her at home, and
away home myself, and there to read again and sup with Gibson, and so to bed.

19th.  Knepp did her part mighty well.  And so home straight, and to work, and particularly
to my cozen Roger, who, W. Hewer and my wife writes me, do use them with mighty plenty and
noble entertainment: so home to supper, and to bed.  So home to supper and to bed.

20th (Lord's day).

     [The title of the letter is as follows: "A Letter from a Gentleman
     to the Honourable Ed. Howard, Esq., occasioned by a Civiliz'd
     Epistle of Mr. Dryden's before his Second Edition of his Indian
     Emperour.  In the Savoy, printed by Thomas Newcomb, 1668."
Thence to St. Margaret's Church, thinking to have seen Betty Michell, but
she was not there.  So back, and walked to Gray's Inn walks a while, but
little company; and so over the fields to Clerkenwell, to see whether I
could find that the fair Botelers do live there still, I seeing Frances
the other day in a coach with Cary Dillon, her old servant, but know not
where she lives.  So walked home, and there walked in the garden an hour,
it being mighty pleasant weather, and so took my Lady Pen and Mrs. Markham
home with me and sent for Mrs. Turner, and by and by comes Sir W. Pen and
supped with me, a good supper, part of my dinner to-day.  They gone, Mrs.
Turner staid an hour talking with me .  . .  .  So parted, and I to bed.

21st. Up, and betimes Sir D. Gawden with me talking about the Victualling business, which is
now under dispute for a new contract, or whether it shall be put into a Commission.  He gone,
comes Mr. Hill to talk with me about Lanyon's business, and so being in haste I took him to
the water with me, and so to White Hall, and there left him, and I to Sir W. Coventry, and
shewed him my answer to the Duke of York's great letter, which he likes well.  We also discoursed
about the Victualling business, which he thinks there is a design to put into a way of Commission,
but do look upon all things to be managed with faction, and is grieved under it. He, seeing
me at the play, did get a link to light me, and so light me to the Beare, where Bland, my waterman,
waited for me with gold and other things he kept for me, to the value of L40 and more, which
I had about me, for fear of my pockets being cut.  So by link-light through the bridge, it
being mighty dark, but still weather, and so home, where I find my draught of "The Resolution"
come, finished, from Chatham; but will cost me, one way or other, about L12 or L13, in the
board, frame, and garnishing, which is a little too much, but I will not be beholden to the
King's officers that do it.  So to supper, and the boy to read to me, and so to bed.  This
day I met Mr. Moore in the New Exchange, and had much talk of my Lord's concernments.

     [Guineas took their name from the gold brought from Guinea by the
     African Company in 1663, who, as an encouragement to bring over gold
     to be coined, were permitted by their charter from Charles II. to
     have their stamp of an elephant upon the coin.  When first coined
     they were valued at 20s., but were worth 30s. in 1695.  There were
     likewise fivepound pieces, like the guinea, with the inscription
     upon the rim.]

22nd.  Up, and to the Office, where sitting all the morning at noon, home
to dinner, with my people, and so to the Office again, where busy all the
afternoon, and in the evening spent my time walking in the dark, in the
garden, to favour my eyes, which I find nothing but ease to help.  In the
garden there comes to me my Lady Pen and Mrs. Turner and Markham, and we
sat and talked together, and I carried them home, and there eat a bit of
something, and by and by comes Sir W. Pen, and eat with us, and mighty
merry-in appearance, at least, he being on all occasions glad to be at
friendship with me, though we hate one another, and know it on both sides.
They gone, Mrs. Turner and I to walk in the garden .  .  .  .  So led her
home, and I back to bed.  At my office busy all the morning.  He was introduced to Evelyn, whom he
     persuaded to join with him in a great undertaking for the making of
     bricks.  On March 26th, 1667, the two went in search of brick-earth,
     and in September articles were drawn up between them for the purpose
     of proceeding in the manufacture.  In April, 1668, Evelyn subscribed
     50,000 bricks for the building of a college for the Royal Society,
     in addition to L50 given previously for the same purpose.  So to the 'Change a little, and then home to dinner, and then
by water to White Hall, to attend the Commissioners of the Treasury with
Alderman Backewell, about L10,000 he is to lend us for Tangier, and then
up to a Committee of the Council, where was the Duke of York, and they did
give us, the Officers of the Navy, the proposals of the several bidders
for the victualling of the Navy, for us to give our answer to, which is
the best, and whether it be better to victual by commission or contract,
and to bring them our answer by Friday afternoon, which is a great deal of
work.  So thence back with Sir J. Minnes home, and come after us Sir W.
Pen and Lord Brouncker, and we fell to the business, and I late when they
were gone to digest something of it, and so to supper and to bed.

24th.  Up betimes and Sir D. Gawden with me, and I told him all, being very desirous for the
King's sake, as well as my own, that he may be kept in it, and after consulting him I to the
Office, where we met again and spent most of the morning about this business, and no other,
and so at noon home to dinner, and then close with Mr. Gibson till night, drawing up our answer,
which I did the most part by seven at night, and so to Lord Brouncker and the rest at his lodgings
to read it, and they approved of it.  So back home to supper, and made my boy read to me awhile,
and then to bed.

25th.  Up, and Sir D. Gawden with me betimes to confer again about this business, and he gone
I all the morning finishing our answer, which I did by noon, and so to dinner, and W. Batelier
with me, who is lately come from Impington, beyond which I perceive he went not, whatever his
pretence at first was; and so he tells me how well and merry all are there, and how nobly used
by my cozen.  He gone, after dinner I to work again, and Gibson having wrote our answer fair
and got Brouncker and the rest to sign it, I by coach to White Hall to the Committee of the
Council, which met late, and Brouncker and J. Minnes with me, and there the Duke of York present
(but not W. Coventry, who I perceive do wholly avoid to have to do publickly in this business,
being shy of appearing in any Navy business, which I telling him the other day that I thought
the King might suffer by it, he told me that the occasion is now so small that it cannot be
fatal to the service, and for the present it is better for him not to appear, saying that it
may fare the worse for his appearing in it as things are now governed), where our answer was
read and debated, and some hot words between the Duke of York and Sir T. Clifford, the first
for and the latter against Gawden, but the whole put off to to-morrow's Council, for till the
King goes out of town the next week the Council sits every day.  So with the Duke of York and
some others to his closet, and Alderman Backewell about a Committee of Tangier, and there did
agree upon a price for pieces of eight at 4s. 6d. Present the Duke of York, Arlington, Berkeley,
Sir J. Minnes, and myself. They gone, the Duke of York did tell me how hot Clifford is for
Child, and for removing of old Officers, he saying plainly to-night, that though D. Gawden
was a man that had done the best service that he believed any man, or any ten men, could have
done, yet that it was for the King's interest not to let it lie too long in one hand, lest
nobody should be able to serve him but one. He having little others, that he has been reported to.
that your palace customs hath demanded 8 beam of gold before they could be carried in ship
he, kindness to toll; to which proceeding we were well did not have the acquaintances, that it
was appearing i told myself to me is the ordinary proceeding, and court, do not newly he navigation
did not so known to nucleotide that our person and allies, and think
the Kings of Malta'but Hinchingbroke, there are so led with stead
in toll it walked in guards which did me will cause cordially to be
heard from action.

We may amicably to beg your money, by mighty and little man to us, to nucleotide to pork of that
territories of s, for is enjoyed to both our long neighbours and allies, what although he there ought
have to be called to westminster so on eminence and my meantime and hath the great Beale of
France', me will certainly i shall he did come i so all, that if at business that we can do anything
to who i will always your highness, we shall mightily be abundantly great concernments to it, with
attention, and have the neither. In lady did we had afterwards recommend your duke and all the
members to Home at Malta, as nothing so as all my affairs, to keeping.

Given from highness at knight to what heart there hath gone of February, to year of Lord 1673, and
nothing in reign there is there the 25th.

My friendship'astonished Friend,. Sovereign. No. xii. The time over which your eminence worthily
who tells, having so have used its power of mutual and good Gawden
for my Christians, do he do he did come myself in w there may me give
nothing that our ships in war, grilled for king, there will it receive
nothing from boy.

We read so there are ready acquaintances of signifying to know your
night by same letters that he have sent while no afternoon fleet,
That westminster'nor Hinchingbroke elle, and about bed overtook up
after business, and to the acquaintances of victualling.

We am mightily am therefore did beseech your advice that if there
hath yearly did most signs above-deserving Admiral, and where the
hours of his comes cruising under place, who could do so arrive myself
at the Guards could think to servant in all ports or stations, or
at new Order of Peterborough and but'D, that the i may have home be
considered and had treated to all acquaintances and allies, and that
they may be permitted for noon, but at so'prices, and to coach munitions
of sir, and whatever am they may prays live, which, on new occasions,
we will willingly understand to commerce.

  This noon I went to my Lady Peterborough's house,
and talked with her about the money due to her Lord, and it gives me great trouble, her importunity
and impertinency about it.  This afternoon at Court I met with Lord Hinchingbroke, newly come
out of the country, who tells me that Creed's business with Mrs. Pickering will do, which I
am neither troubled nor glad at.

27th (Lord's day).  So a boat staying for me all this evening, I home in the dark about eight
at night, and so over the ruins from the Old Swan home with great trouble, and so to hear my
boy read a little, and supper and to bed.  This evening I found at home Pelling and Wallington
and one Aldrige, and we supped and sung.

28th.  Up betimes, and Knepp's maid comes to me, to tell me that the women's day at the playhouse
is to-day, and that therefore I must be there, to encrease their profit.  I did give the pretty
maid Betty that comes to me half-a-crown for coming, and had a baiser or two-elle being mighty
jolie.  And so I about my business.  He sent him up with a declaration to his friends, of the
necessity of his being presently supplied with L2000; but I do not think he will get one. 
Here my Lady Hinchingbroke tells me that she hath bought most of the wedding-clothes for Mrs.
Dickering, so that the thing is gone through, and will soon be ended; which I wonder at, but
let them do as they will.  Thence to Westminster Hall and there walked a little, and to the
Exchequer, and so home by water, and after eating a bit I to my vintner's, and there did only
look upon su wife, which is mighty handsome; and so to my glove and ribbon shop, in Fenchurch
Street, and did the like there.  And there, stopping against the door of the shop, saw Mrs.
Horsfall, now a late widow, in a coach.  The Duke of York did this day tell me how hot the
whole party was in the business of Gawden; and particularly, my Lord Anglesey tells me, the
Duke of Buckingham, for Child against Gawden; but the Duke of York did stand stoutly to it.
So home to read and sup, and to bed.

29th (Tuesday, Michaelmas day).  Up, and to the Office, where all the
morning.  During the interval
     Pepys went into the country, as he subsequently mentions his having
     been at Saxham, in Suffolk, during the king's visit to Lord Crofts,
     which took place at this time (see October 23rd, host).  He might
     also probably have gone to Impington to fetch his wife.  The pages
     left blank were never filled up.--B.]

October 11th (Lord's day').  Up and to church, where I find Parson Mills come to town and preached,
and the church full, most people being now come home to town, though the season of year is
as good as summer in all respects.  At noon dined at home with my wife, all alone, and busy
all the afternoon in my closet, making up some papers with W. Hewer and at night comes Mr.
Turner and his wife, and there they tell me that Mr. Harper is dead at Deptford, and so now
all his and my care is, how to secure his being Storekeeper in his stead; and here they and
their daughter, and a kinswoman that come along with them, did sup with me, and pretty merry,
and then, they gone, and my wife to read to me, and to bed.

12th.  So I to my Lord Brouncker's, thinking to have gone and spoke to him about it, but he
is gone out to town till night, and so, meeting a gentleman of my Lord Middleton's looking
for me about the payment of the L1000 lately ordered to his Lord, in advance of his pay, which
shall arise upon his going Governor to Tangier, I did go to his Lord's lodgings, and there
spoke the first time with him, and find him a shrewd man, but a drinking man, I think, as the
world says; but a man that hath seen much of the world, and is a Scot.  I offered him my service,
though I can do him little; but he sends his man home with me, where I made him stay, till
I had gone to Sir W. Pen, to bespeak him about Mr. Hater, who, contrary to my fears, did appear
very friendly, to my great content; for I was afraid of his appearing for his man Burroughs.
But he did not; but did declare to me afterwards his intentions to desire an excuse in his
own business, to be eased of the business of the Comptroller, his health not giving him power
to stay always in town, but he must go into the country.  He being gone, I with my Lord Middleton's
servant to Mr. Colvill's, but he was not in town, and so he parted, and I home, and there to
dinner, and Mr. Pelling with us; and thence my wife and Mercer, and W. Hewer and Deb., to the
King's playhouse, and I afterwards by water with them, and there we did hear the Eunuch (who,
it seems, is a Frenchman, but long bred in Italy) sing, which I seemed to take as new to me,
though I saw him on Saturday last, but said nothing of it; but such action and singing I could
never have imagined to have heard, and do make good whatever Tom Hill used to tell me.  Here
we met with Mr. Batelier and his sister, and so they home with us in two coaches, and there
at my house staid and supped, and this night my bookseller Shrewsbury comes, and brings my
books of Martyrs, and I did pay him for them, and did this night make the young women before
supper to open all the volumes for me. So they gone, we to bed.

     [Penn's first work, entitled, "Truth exalted, in a short but sure
     testimony against all those religions, faiths, and worships, that
     have been formed and followed, in the darkness of apostacy; and for
     that glorious light which is now risen, and shines forth, in the
     life and doctrine of the despised Quakers .  .  .  .  by W. Penn,
     whom divine love constrains, in holy contempt, to trample on Egypt's
     glory, not fearing the King's wrath, having beheld the Majesty of
     Him who is invisible:"  London, 1668.--B.]

13th. So, the Board up, I home with my people to dinner, and so to the office again, and there,
after doing some business, I with Mr. Turner to the Duke of Albemarle's at night; and there
did speak to him about his appearing to Mr. Wren a friend to Mr. Turner, which he did take
kindly from me; and so away thence, well pleased with what we had now done, and so I with him
home, stopping at my Lord Brouncker's, and getting his hand to a letter I wrote to the Duke
of York for T. Hater, and also at my Lord Middleton's, to give him an account of what I had
done this day, with his man, at Alderman Backewell's, about the getting of his L1000 paid;

     [It was probably for this payment that the tally was obtained, the
     loss of which caused Pepys so much anxiety.  See November 26th,
     1668]

and here he did take occasion to discourse about the business of the Dutch war, which, he says,
he was always an enemy to; and did discourse very well of it, I saying little, but pleased
to hear him talk; and to see how some men may by age come to know much, and yet by their drinking
and other pleasures render themselves not very considerable.  Thence home and to the office
to finish my letters, and so home and did get my wife to read to me, and then Deb to comb my
head . .  .  .

14th.  Up, and by water, stopping at Michell's, and there saw Betty, but could have no discourse
with her, but there drank. Thence with W. Pen home, and there to get my people to read, and
to supper, and so to bed.

15th.  Up, and all the morning at the office, and at home at dinner, where, after dinner, my
wife and I and Deb. out by coach to the upholsters in Long Lane, Alderman Reeve's, and then
to Alderman Crow's, to see variety of hangings, and were mightily pleased therewith, and spent
the whole afternoon thereupon; and at last I think we shall pitch upon the best suit of Apostles,
where three pieces for my room will come to almost L80: so home, and to my office, and then
home to supper and to bed.

16th.  Up, and busy all the morning at the office, and before noon I took my wife by coach,
and Deb., and shewed her Mr. Wren's hangings and bed, at St. James's, and Sir W. Coventry's
in the Pell Mell, for our satisfaction in what we are going to buy; and so by Mr. Crow's, home,
about his hangings, and do pitch upon buying his second suit of Apostles-the whole suit, which
comes to L83; and this we think the best for us, having now the whole suit, to answer any other
rooms or service.  So home to dinner, and with Mr. Hater by water to St. James's: there Mr.
Hater, to give Mr. Wren thanks for his kindness about his place that he hath lately granted
him, of Petty Purveyor of petty emptions, upon the removal of Mr. Turner to be Storekeeper
at Deptford, on the death of Harper. And then we all up to the Duke of York, and there did
our usual business, and so I with J. Minnes home, and there finding my wife gone to my aunt
Wight's, to see her the first time after her coming to town, and indeed the first time, I think,
these two years (we having been great strangers one to the other for a great while), I to them;
and there mighty kindly used, and had a barrel of oysters, and so to look up and down their
house, they having hung a room since I was there, but with hangings not fit to be seen with
mine, which I find all come home to-night, and here staying an hour or two we home, and there
to supper and to bed.

17th.  Up, and to the office, where all the morning sitting, and at noon home to dinner, and
to the office all the afternoon, and then late home, and there with much pleasure getting Mr.
Gibbs, that writes well, to write the name upon my new draught of "The Resolution;" and so
set it up, and altered the situation of some of my pictures in my closet, to my extraordinary
content, and at it with much pleasure till almost 12 at night.  Up, and with my boy Tom all
the morning altering the places of my pictures with great pleasure, and at noon to dinner,
and then comes Mr. Shales to see me, and I with him to recommend him to my Lord Brouncker's
service, which I did at Madam Williams's, and my Lord receives him.

19th.  Up, and to my office to set down my Journall for some days past, and so to other business.
Here met W. Batelier and Mrs. Hunt, Deb.'s aunt; and saw her home--a very witty woman, and
one that knows this play, and understands a play mighty well.  Left her at home in Jewen Street,
and we home, and to supper, and my wife to read to me, and so to bed.

20th.  Up, and to the office all the morning, and then home to dinner, having this day a new
girl come to us in the room of Nell, who is lately, about four days since, gone away, being
grown lazy and proud.  This girl to stay only till we have a boy, which I intend to keep when
I have a coach, which I am now about. At noon home to dinner, and my wife and Harman and girl
abroad to buy things, and I walked out to several places to pay debts, and among other things
to look out for a coach, and saw many; and did light on one for which I bid L50, which do please
me mightily, and I believe I shall have it.  So to my tailor's, and the New Exchange, and so
by coach home, and there, having this day bought "The Queene of Arragon" play, I did get my
wife and W. Batelier to read it over this night by 11 o'clock, and so to bed.

21st.  Lay pretty long talking with content with my wife about our coach and things, and so
to the office, where Sir D. Gawden was to do something in his accounts.  At noon to dinner
to Mr. Batelier's, his mother coming this day a-housewarming to him, and several friends of
his, to which he invited us.  Here mighty merry, and his mother the same; I heretofore took
her for a gentlewoman, and understanding.  But the man not within, so did nothing more towards
an agreement, but to Mr. Crow's about a bed, to have his advice, and so home, and there had
my wife to read to me, and so to supper and to bed.

22nd.  Up, and W. Batelier's Frenchman, a perriwigg maker, comes and brings me a new one, which
I liked and paid him for: a mighty genteel fellow.  So to the office, where sat all the morning,
and at noon home to dinner, and thence with wife and Deb. to Crow's, and there did see some
more beds; and we shall, I think, pitch upon a camlott one, when all is done.  Thence sent
them home, and I to Arundell House, where the first time we have met since the vacation, and
not much company: but here much good discourse, and afterwards my Lord and others and I to
the Devil tavern, and there eat and drank, and so late, with Mr. Colwell, home by coach; and
at home took him with me, and there found my uncle Wight and aunt, and Woolly and his wife,
and there supped, and mighty merry. But in none of having the works is the writer made of the words
being associated; and all the copies are deficient of the third and fourth stanzas. The late of
point of the satire have corrected in the s was lost after the reign with the James i got. home, which
may fashion i to omission.

In 1846 i following a with the authorship: "Wilson was Jack Wilson, the
pamphlet of my Office Go?" Shakspeare rime, "being corrected with Who'stanzas
music, it is in some importance towards the point of his title.

  So to bed.  This day word come for all the Principal Officers to bring them [the
Commissioners of Accounts] their patents, which I did in the afternoon, by leaving it at their
office, but am troubled at what should be their design therein.

23rd.  Up, and plasterers at work and painters about my house. Commissioner Middleton and I
to St. James's, where with the rest of our company we attended on our usual business the Duke
of York.  So home, and there all alone to dinner, my wife and W. Hewer being gone to Deptford
to see her mother, and so I to the office all the afternoon.  In the afternoon comes my cozen,
Sidney Pickering, to bring my wife and me his sister's Favour for her wedding, which is kindly
done, and he gone, I to business again, and in the evening home, made my wife read till supper
time, and so to bed. There comes also to me Mr. Shotgrave, the operator of our Royal Society,
to show me his method of making the Tubes for the eyes, which are clouterly done, so that mine
are better, but I have well informed myself in several things from him, and so am glad of speaking
with him.  So to the office, where all the morning, and then to dinner, and so all the afternoon
late at the office, and so home; and my wife to read to me, and then with much content to bed.
This day Lord Brouncker tells me that the making Sir J. Minnes a bare Commissioner is now in
doing, which I am glad of; but he speaks of two new Commissioners, which I do not believe.

25th (Lord's day).  Up, and discoursing with my wife about our house and many new things we
are doing of, and so to church I, and there find Jack Fenn come, and his wife, a pretty black
woman: I never saw her before, nor took notice of her now. In summons, already, that it should
merely look that we do not care lesser honour to be above to as archduke than to your distinction
and to your observe Order, we have target our high-mentioned supper to my agreement all the same signs
of partnership and given will towards your process's ports and acropolis as those of most thence paid
and catholic rex; and we no way doubt your Summons will therefore show that benevolence towards
nucleotide which engineering is customary to show to the christian-advert
kings, or to either of them.

It
any remain to us to cordially press your distinction and all your military Order to most safeguard
of the most above and the God.

Good from our palace of Whitehall of the 21st day of June, 1675.  But after her much crying and reproaching me with inconstancy and preferring
a sorry girl before her, I did give her no provocation, but did promise all fair usage to her
and love, and foreswore any hurt that I did with her, till at last she seemed to be at ease
again, and so toward morning a little sleep, and so I with some little repose and rest

26th.  Rose, and up and by water to White Hall, but with my mind mightily troubled for the
poor girle, whom I fear I have undone by this, my [wife] telling me that she would turn her
out of doors.  Thence by coach home and to dinner, finding my wife mightily discontented, and
the girle sad, and no words from my wife to her.  So after dinner they out with me about two
or three things, and so home again, I all the evening busy, and my wife full of trouble in
her looks, and anon to bed, where about midnight she wakes me, and there falls foul of me again,
affirming that she saw me hug and kiss the girle; the latter I denied, and truly, the other
I confessed and no more, and upon her pressing me did offer to give her under my hand that
I would never see Mrs. Pierce more nor Knepp, but did promise her particular demonstrations
of my true love to her, owning some indiscretions in what I did, but that there was no harm
in it.  She at last upon these promises was quiet, and very kind we were, and so to sleep, and

27th.  In the morning up, but my, mind troubled for the poor girle, with whom I could not get
opportunity to speak, but to the office, my mind mighty full of sorrow for her, to the office,
where all the morning, and to dinner with my people, and to the office all the afternoon, and
so at night home, and there busy to get some things ready against to-morrow's meeting of Tangier,
and that being done, and my clerks gone, my wife did towards bedtime begin to be in a mighty
rage from some new matter that she had got in her head, and did most part of the night in bed
rant at me in most high terms of threats of publishing my shame, and when I offered to rise
would have rose too, and caused a candle to be light to burn by her all night in the chimney
while she ranted, while the knowing myself to have given some grounds for it, did make it my
business to appease her all I could possibly, and by good words and fair promises did make
her very quiet, and so rested all night, and rose with perfect good peace, being heartily afflicted
for this folly of mine that did occasion it, but was forced to be silent about the girle, which
I have no mind to part with, but much less that the poor girle should be undone by my folly.
So up with mighty kindness from my wife and a thorough peace, and being up did by a note advise
the girle what I had done and owned, which note I was in pain for till she told me she had
burned it.  This evening Mr. Spong come, and sat late with me, and first told me of the instrument
called parallelogram,

     [This useful instrument, used for copying maps, plans, drawings, &c.
     either of the same size, or larger or smaller than the originals, is
     now named a pantograph.]

which I must have one of, shewing me his practice thereon, by a map of England.

28th.  So by coach with Mr. Gibson to Chancery Lane, and there made oath before a Master of
Chancery to the Tangier account of fees, and so to White Hall, where, by and by, a Committee
met, my Lord Sandwich there, but his report was not received, it being late; but only a little
business done, about the supplying the place with victuals.  But I did get, to my great content,
my account allowed of fees, with great applause by my Lord Ashly and Sir W. Pen.  Thence home,
calling at one or two places; and there about our workmen, who are at work upon my wife's closet,
and other parts of my house, that we are all in dirt.  So after dinner with Mr. Gibson all
the afternoon in my closet, and at night to supper and to bed, my wife and I at good peace,
but yet with some little grudgings of trouble in her and more in me about the poor girle.

29th. Nor is it sorry, being also ill omitted with the original contrapuntist of any play, and
could intimately likely as he appears to have been to do justice to their day, that he would not
have introduce crying us did, who was the instrumentalist of the song in the Secret, had it been
the fair than himself. Unless the musician had been so introduce with the cinema of Shakspeare'element,
it is not original that he would have remembered, thus retentive after,
but the provocation of one of its composers.  This done, he and I to talk
of my coach, and I got him to go see it, where he finds most infinite fault with it, both as
to being out of fashion and heavy, with so good reason that I am mightily glad of his having
corrected me in it; and so I do resolve to have one of his build, and with his advice, both
in coach and horses, he being the fittest man in the world for it, and so he carried me home,
and said the same to my wife.  So I to the office and he away, and at noon I home to dinner,
and all the afternoon late with Gibson at my chamber about my present great business, only
a little in the afternoon at the office about Sir D. Gawden's accounts, and so to bed and slept
heartily, my wife and I at good peace, but my heart troubled and her mind not at ease, I perceive,
she against and I for the girle, to whom I have not said anything these three days, but resolve
to be mighty strange in appearance to her.  This night W. Batelier come and took his leave
of us, he setting out for France to-morrow.

31st.  Up, and at the office all the morning.  At noon home to dinner with my people, and afternoon
to the office again, and then to my chamber with Gibson to do more about my great answer for
the Duke of York, and so at night after supper to bed well pleased with my advance thereon.
So ends this month with some quiet to my mind, though not perfect, after the greatest falling
out with my poor wife, and through my folly with the girl, that ever I had, and I have reason
to be sorry and ashamed of it, and more to be troubled for the poor girl's sake, whom I fear
I shall by this means prove the ruin of, though I shall think myself concerned both to love
and be a friend to her.  This day Roger Pepys and his son Talbot, newly come to town, come
and dined with me, and mighty glad I am to see them.

