"Suddenly there was a cry from one of the natives. Gazing toward the jungle, he yelled: 'A
tiger! a tiger!' Instantly our hearts stopped beating and our eyes were turned toward the jungle.
There, against the matted leaves and stalks, was a mass of yellow and black--half a tiger.
In the bright sunlight we could see it plainly. It had been roused by the noise of the pounding,
and was gazing out to see what was the matter. With one united scream, the natives shot away.
They scattered; they disappeared utterly and at once. Where they went I know not. We never
saw them again. We did not even think of them. Our eyes were set fast upon the black and yellow
stripes and the great head. Without volition I grasped my rifle. Irene put her hand upon her
weapon, but I whispered to her not to move.

"The tiger came slowly out of the jungle so that we could see him clearly; then he walked toward
us. I clutched my rifle still more tightly.

"Suddenly Irene whispered to me: 'We are not fastened; those men did not attach the rope; and
we may drift away from him, perhaps across the river, and so lose him. Is it too far for a shot?'

"'Entirely, entirely,' I answered; 'we must wait: and if we do drift across the river we may
find some other game there. Be quiet!'

"So we both were quiet; but the balloon did not drift: there was no wind.

"The tiger moved gently toward us; it was dreadful to remain thus motionless and see him come
on. He had paid no attention to the escaping natives: he was giving his mind entirely to our
balloon. He looked up at us, and he looked down at the end of the rope, a yard or two of which
was moving about like a snake as the balloon veered a little this way and that.

"This seemed to interest the tiger. He stopped for a few moments and looked at it. He was now
near enough for us to observe him closely. We did so with breathless interest. He was a long
tiger, and very thin; his flabby flanks seemed to indicate that he was hungry. Suddenly he
gave a quick bound; he ceased to regard the balloon; his eyes were fixed upon the end of the
rope. With great leaps he reached it. He arched his back and looked at it as it moved, then
he put one paw upon it. We leaned over the edge of the car and watched him.

"The rope was so attached that by putting out her arm Irene could reach it. She seized it and
made the lower end of it move more quickly on the ground. The tiger gave a jump, with his eyes
on the rope. Then he leaped forward, and over and over again he put his foot upon it and quickly
jerked it away.

"'What are you doing?' I whispered. 'Are you mad? You may enrage him. Do not touch the rope!
Do not touch it again!' Oh, the recklessness, the unthinking playfulness of woman! How can
we guard against it? How can we be safe from it?

"The rope was now still for a moment. It ceased to interest the tiger, and he looked upward.
Suddenly an idea came into his head. He seized the rope in his great jaws, and gave a powerful
jump backward. Oh, what a jerk, what a shock! It was worse than an earthquake. It was like
a great throb from the heart of the tiger to the heart of the man. I must have turned pale.
Did he intend to haul us down? This fearsome thought vented itself in smothered ejaculations,
and Irene turned to me and spoke in her usual voice:

"'He cannot do that, for it is impossible for him to haul us down hand over hand or paw over
paw. He is only playing. The rope amuses him. And we need not speak in whispers; even if he
hears us he cannot understand us. Is it not time to shoot?'

"She is so precipitate, my Irene. I love her, but she lacks that prudent hesitancy which so
often gives a man his power over circumstances.

"Still I considered the case: if I were going to shoot at all, this was surely a good time.
Everything had come so suddenly that I had not had time to collect myself, to prepare for action.

"I looked steadfastly down at the beast, and so did my Irene. I was becoming calmer. He looked
up at us with an air of concentration; he paid no more attention to the rope.

"I lifted my rifle; I scrutinized its every portion; it was in order. Then I leaned over the
edge of the car and pointed it downward. I aimed it between his great, earnest eyes, into the
very middle of his thoughtful and observant countenance. I pulled the trigger; the explosion
shook the car.

"Up from the ground there came a sudden, startling roar. At first I could not see the tiger,
but when the smoke moved away I found myself gazing down into his savage, blazing eyes. Roar
after roar came up; he sprang from side to side; his tail stiffened and curled, and when he
opened his vast mouth, showing the cavern of his throat, his red tongue, and his long white
teeth, a shiver ran through me. Instinctively I grasped my Irene by the arm.

"'I do not believe you hit him,' said she. 'See how he bounds! He cannot be hurt. It must be
difficult to aim directly downward, but let me try.'

"I did not forbid her. Even by chance she might strike that awful beast in some vital part.
She took a long, deliberate aim, and as she fired the tiger gave a veritable scream.

"'Ah, ha!' I cried, 'you hit him. Truly, my Irene, you hit him.'

"'But it was only in the toe,' she said. 'See how he has stopped to lick it with his tongue.
I think it is his littlest toe. It is not much.'

"Large toe or small one, that tiger was now an angry beast. Hopping backward a little way,
he now crouched to the ground, and then gave a wild spring upward. It was heart-sickening as
his great form, with its yellow skin and black stripes, his blazing eyes, his flashing teeth,
and his outspread claws, rose toward us through the air. Of course he could not hurt us; we
were too high up. Irene's face flushed. 'That was a great leap,' she said.

"I took up my rifle again. It comforted me to see what a small jump the beast had made compared
to our distance from the ground. Again I fired, and this time also I did not hit him. I had
never practised shooting at things almost beneath me; the slightest motion of Irene disturbed
my aim. The report seemed to infuriate the tiger until he was on the verge of madness. He jumped
from side to side, he roared, he gnashed his teeth, and it seemed to me that I could smell
his horrid breath coming up toward us.

"Suddenly he ceased all motion; he crouched upon the ground; he made no sound; he shut his
mouth; he partly shut his eyes, but they were fixed upon me immovably, and they were green
as emerald.

"'Now,' said Irene, 'is a good time to take another shot. Shall I try?'

"I raised my hand that she might not move. There was a change coming over the sun. At first
I thought my sight was affected and I did not see well, but it was not that. Instinctively
I gazed upward. A wandering cloud was slowly moving under the sun. Then I looked down. The
tiger's yellow was not so bright, his black stripes were not so clear and sharp-cut, and, more
than that, he was coming nearer. The balloon was slowly descending. The truth flashed upon
me. Deprived of the direct rays of the sun, the gas was condensing. We were going down, down,
slowly but surely down!

"A chill ran through me, an awful premonitory chill. I knew what to do, but there was little
I could do. We carried no ballast, for this was a captive balloon. What could I throw out?
The extra rifle! Out it went, and fell not far from the tiger; but he did not move; with his
green eyes fixed upon the car, he watched it slowly descend. The rifle had relieved it of a
little of its weight, but the middle of the cloud was thicker than its edge. The gas was still
condensing, the balloon was slowly descending. I became almost frantic. If my Irene had been
any one else I believe I would have thrown her out. But I could not throw out my Irene. Besides,
she was so vigorous.

"It was awful, this steady, this merciless descent. It was like entering a tomb with a red
tongue and flashing teeth waiting within. The green eyes gleamed with the malice of a waiting
devil biding his time and knowing that it was drawing near.

"Down, down we went, and the smell of his horrid breath came up like the forerunner of a cruel
death. Now a tremor ran through the whole body of the crouching beast; even his tail trembled
like a feather in the wind. He seemed to press himself nearer and nearer to the earth. His
eyes were fixed steadily upon the car.

"I knew what this meant. He was about to spring. The moment that we should descend sufficiently
low, he would hurl himself into the car; he would not wait for it to touch the ground.

"My thoughts raced through my brain. If anything could be done, it must be done in the next
half-minute. I spoke quickly to Irene.

"'Do not lose a second,' I said. 'Get out on the outside of the car; rest lightly upon its
edge; hold by the ropes. I will do the same. At the moment I give the word you must jump. Both
together; do not hesitate. It will not be much of a fall. We cannot stay here and have him--'

"At this instant the tiger gave a tremendous bound upward, his fore paws, bristling with claws,
stretched over the edge of the car. In that instant I jumped!

"It was a great leap, and as my feet struck the ground and my eyes glanced rapidly about me
a feeling of great joy filled my breast. I was on the earth again, master of myself, and the
tiger was not there. I looked upward. The great beast was drawing up his hind legs and was
climbing into the car, and there was Irene, my Irene, outside of the car, sitting on the edge
and holding on to the ropes. I had forgotten to give her the word! How my heart sank! It was
terrible!

"I now perceived something that almost paralyzed my every faculty. That balloon was rising.
I was a large man and I was heavier than the tiger; with its reduced weight the balloon was
slowly going upward. I clasped my hands, I gasped for breath. If I should call to Irene to
jump now she would be dashed to pieces, the car was already so high. And then the great truth
flashed upon me: 'What matters it? If she leaps she will be killed; if she does not leap--'
I could not think of it!

"To be sure, I might seize the rope and pull her down low enough so that she might safely drop;
but if I did that the tiger might also jump. Oh, what a position to be in, for one who loves!

"It was now absolutely impossible for either of them safely to leap from the car unless I pulled
it down, and my mind was not capable of even considering such an alternative. To meet him here
upon the ground, in this awful solitude! To die together, but not in each other's arms; to
perish from this bright earth; to reach out to my Irene; to call to her as she reached out
and called to me, when the terrible monster-- It was too much!

"But even in my despair I remembered to be humane. I seized the end of the rope. I would not
let my Irene float away altogether. I could not. The soul of the husband asserted itself. The
cloud had now passed from the face of the sun. The balloon was rising with considerable force,
but I could hold it; I was very heavy. I would not desert my Irene.

"As I stood thus, looking upward and holding fast to all that was dear to me in life, I saw
Irene, still sitting on the edge of the car, raise one hand and put it to her head. I could
see that she was feeling faint; the strain of her position was beginning to tell upon her;
at any moment she might fall. Then my quick glance sought the tiger. He was in the car, his
great head and two front paws hanging over the edge; his green eyes were steadily fixed on
me. Just then Irene, evidently unable to hold any longer to the ropes, gave herself a dexterous
twist, and in an instant she was inside the car, her head sinking down out of sight. Oh, noble,
most beloved Irene! Sooner than let herself drop and fall at my feet a mangled corpse, she
would do anything. She well understood my too sensitive soul, this dear Irene!

"In spite of my emotion I still held firmly to the rope, and the tiger still glared down upon
me. It was too far for him to jump; he knew that if he did he would be dashed to pieces. This
gave me strength and courage.

"Irene now raised herself and looked over the edge of the car; the tiger by her side did not
regard her. I have often read of wild animals, of different kinds and degrees of fierceness,
who, having fallen into a pit together, did not attack each other, but remained as gentle as
sheep, being cowed by their fear. Plainly this tiger was cowed. He had never been so far above
the earth; he knew that he would die if he leaped; but he kept his sinister green eyes steadily
fixed on me.

"Now Irene called down to me. I could not hear what she said, I was in such terrible agitation.
And besides, I think she was afraid to speak too loudly, for fear she might startle the black-and-yellow
beast. How I longed to hear her dear words, perhaps her last! Mayhap she was bidding me a fond
farewell; perhaps she was trying to encourage me and uphold my heart in this terrible trial.
It would be like her; she knows my love for her, my dear Irene!

"And then, ah yes! it might be that she was asking my permission to throw herself from the
car: that she was beseeching me to turn away my head that she might leap to the ground, and
thus end her anxieties and her miseries--I might say our miseries; for if the tiger should
follow her he, too, would be killed. I should be left to weep over my dearest, the joy of my
life and my heart. The tiger would be dead. In her last breath Irene would know that I was
safe. That would be like Irene, my dear Irene! But I would not suffer it. I could not speak,
but I shook my head.

"She did not try to say anything more, but she looked down upon me, and so did the tiger. The
two heads were not far from each other; they were both regarding me. I grew almost crazy. Never
was man placed in more terrible straits than this.

"Suddenly a thought struck me. I seized more tightly the end of the rope, and I ran. I ran
to the river. I plunged, I bounded, I made such great haste that sometimes I stumbled over
obstacles, and sometimes the balloon seemed to lift me from the ground; but on, on I went,
on to the river!

"When I reached the edge of the water I took courage to stop and look up. They were both still
gazing over the edge of the car, both with their eyes strained upon me.

"Then boldly and fearlessly I walked into the river. I walked until the water was up to my
knees; until it reached my waist. I walked until the surface of the water lapped my shoulders.
I was not afraid; I am a good swimmer. Irene now called down to me. It was plain she was becoming
reckless; she would know what I was going to do, no matter what effect her words would have
upon the tiger. If she thought I was about to commit suicide, not daring to bear up under her
coming fate, she would dissuade me. It would be like her, that dear Irene!

"'What are you going to do?' she cried. And as I looked upward her eyes and those of the tiger
were steadily fixed on me.

