Silence descended on Miss West and Bill Nairne, after the first forced commonplaces. He glanced
furtively at her, and lost his confidence and coolness, and hung his head--the respectable
prosperous merchant!--but not at what he saw. What did she see? Nothing but that the sword
had worn the scabbard. Mad had been true to herself. Mad could not have been otherwise than
true, as he had written. But the consciousness of what Mad would see when she lifted up her
eyes and looked him in the face made him droop his head. He had got a glimpse of it that morning,
when, as the thought of Mad grew more and more vivid in his mind, he saw something reflected
in the glass which did not necessarily belong to bodily maturity. The conviction returned to
him with fresh, poignant regret, in the peaceful hush and subdued splendour of the winter night.
There were lines in his face which Mad should never have seen there, without which he would
have been nearer heaven. There were hard, unbelieving lines, supercilious lines, self-indulgent
lines, lines of the earth, earthy, corresponding to hard and gross lines in the spirit within.
The respectable, prosperous merchant, had fallen from his original level. He had not attained
to the chivalrous, Christian manhood which he had the prospect of when he was Mad's promising
lover. He had lowered his standard, forsaken his principles, lost his faith a few times since
then. The gulf between Mad and him was wider now. He felt this walking on the moonlight December
night by Mad's side again.

It was in a somewhat different tone from that of his letter that Bill Nairne said at last,
"Mad, will you have the worst of me? Will you do something for me and mine after all? I might
have been another man if I had got you long ago, Mad."

"Would you have been a better and a happier man, Bill? Could I do anything for you yet? Answer
me truly," she said, hurriedly heaping the self-forgetful, quivering sentences one upon another.

"Anything!" exclaimed big Bill Nairne with intense conviction and hyperbole, more excusable
than his old prudence and fickleness, "Anything! Mad, you could do everything with me, and
with little Bill and Bob. We should no longer be egotistical and frivolous, with you to keep
us right, you good, single-hearted Mad."

       *       *       *       *       *

Miss Sandys was entitled to say, "You have come out this Christmas, Miss West. I shan't allow
my assistant to be taken off her satirical staid feet another Christmas. I'll lock the next
one up for the holidays. It is all those holidays; you would never have thought of such foolish
things had you been busy teaching. I'll lock the next one up, or I'll send her to her friends,
who will live, I trust, in some peaceful valley, where there are no old acquaintances, or for
that matter, men of any kind. I shall, indeed, Miss West, for I hate changes." Miss Sandys
had not to dread changes much longer. A sister of Miss West came and supplied her place, and
lived so long with Miss Sandys that she closed her superior's eyes like a dutiful daughter,
and succeeded to the goodwill of Carter Hill School.

       *       *       *       *       *

PRINTED BY J. S. VIRTUE AND CO., LIMITED, CITY ROAD, LONDON.

       *       *       *       *       *

    Transcriber's Notes
      Page  21 "everyday" changed to "every-day"
      Page  30 "common-place" changed to "commonplace"
      Page  45 "lifelong" changed to "life-long"
      Page  62 duplicate "it" removed
      Page  77 "face was white" changed to "face was as white"
      Page  81 "confided in her; the" changed to "confided in her; she"
      Page  85 "Fox-holes" changed to Foxholes
      Page 110 "she "bridled" well," changed to "she "bridled" well."
      Page 112 "company travelled," changed to "company travelled."
      Page 152 "It had been a sen" changed to "It had been a sent"
      Page 186 "sea-weed" changed to "seaweed"
      Page 186 "careworn" changed to "care-worn"
      Page 201 "praise God and he" changed to "praise God and be"
      Page 215 "canary bird," changed to "canary bird."
      Page 222 "selfishnesss" changed to "selfishness"
      Page 241 "suspense?" changed to "suspense!"
      Page 247 "powr" changed to "power"
      Page 248 "their mother," changed to "their mother."
      Page 255 "to the pathos" changed to "to the pathos of"
      Page 293 "circnmstances" changed to "circumstances"
      Page 297 "small-pox" changed to "smallpox"
      Page 307 "horseflesh" changed to "horse-flesh"
      Page 342 duplicate "a" removed
      Page 344 "New-Year's" changed to "New Year's"
      Page 348 "themsevles" changed to "themselves"