 Oct. 1256] but what he Hulagu with the Message
sent back that if he did not get any, he takes another brother Schehinschah let's send. Chuarschah
sent his brother and the Khoja Schiranschah Assileddin with three hundred men, to offer his homage.
[RN: 1 Schewwal 654/26. Oct.] After four days they were sent back with a diploma, which the
Chuarschah as it does not committed a crime, the grace of the Kaan's insured, if he would deliver
his locks, while The army received orders to break open from all sides. Köke Ilka and approached
Tukatimur from the side of Ispidar; Chuarschah asked why they came, as it into submission
ready, they said, it was the Army road on which they auszögen after feeding. Hulagu however,
had turned against Thalkan [200], [RN: 10 Scheww./31. October] a city of Tocharistan landscape,
after which the Mongols were given by the Byzantines called Tocharian, the still in which the
Mongols Tsacharen lives on. Without a sunken rain would flow Chuarschah already this evening at the
foot of his castle caught; afterwards eight days [RN: 19 Scheww. / 8 November] when the weather brightened,
held a council of war was that the siege of Castle to do yet as far advanced in the season, or to next
year move it, the vizier Seifeddin, the generals and Keitbuka Bukatimur voted for the Siege.
Hulagu sent message again, half-menacing, half conciliatory, a last Schedule of five days
to surrender determining. Chuarschah lost his head and sent his learned physician and adviser
Nassireddin of Tus with his brother and his son Shah Iran Turkia with many gifts to offer
his submission and three days afterwards, Sunday 19 November, [RN: 19 Nov. 1256] came Chuarschah
himself to kiss the foot of the Kaan's; He clothed his submission in the following two, manufactured
by himself couplets:

O Shah, I come to your court warned, Repenting debt that ensnared
me so far.

    Your luck has taken this course for me How
    could I otherwise what would 'I'd come!
    
    Hulagu saw that he had an inexperienced young man before him, he flattered
him with promises and induced him, all the castles of his ancestors,
whose numbers rose to a hundred, breaking only Girdkjuh and Lemsir
in which clung to the crew yet, except, to Meimundis [201] stored
up treasures were shipped and the emirs of the Army distributed.

Hulagu withdrew from Alamut, ie, the eagle's nest, the headquarters of the Grand Master of the Assassins,
flew out from under the founder Hasan Ssabbah the power of the Order as an eagle. The commander
was found after a few days resisted. [RN: 26 Silhidsche 654/15. December] The Mongols invaded,
broke the traps and gave the residents three days' notice to the deduction.

[Marginal note: Castles of the Assassins.]

After withdrawal of the occupation, after distribution of the spoils, Hulagu sent his learned Secretary
of State Athamülk Dschuweini into the castle of Alamut to search
the archives and library.

The Korans and several other valuable works were set aside, including
one which the title events of our Lord and Master [202] and led the
life of Hasan Ssabbah, the founder of the Order contained, resulting
Athamülk in his world history, the opening reliable news given about
the same, all other works of philosophical and free-spirited content
of the doctrine of the Ismaili were given to the flames.

Whether he made this Autodafe Hulagu's orders on the books of his own accord or organized, whether,
if this Fire only his work was, to him only the zeal orthodox Islam, or, as him later historian
whose accuse condemn worthy narrow-minded greed exclusive Induced learning is to decide today
impossible. It is intended to merely historical in works that he wanted to use the saved, and
these afterwards abandoned to the flames, monopolize to scholarship as historians. A similar
indictment charged also to the memory of the great astronomers Nassireddin and the great physician
Ibn Sina [203]. In which scholars may have found head always such barbarism input, is the same
But the unilateral mathematician and philosopher, physician, or natural than the historian, which,
if his sources rather than to lead them, destroyed, with its same Credibility destroyed. In
honor of the great historian, astronomer and physician, which is so extravagant and exclusive bezüchtiget
glory be, we wish to believe, that the idea of ​​it not in their much broader mind, but in the narrower
their Prosecutors could take place. Alamut, ie, the Eagle or Geyer's nest, high on a steep Hill,
located northeast of Kaswin offers today in its ruins a long series are interconnected by
walls with towers, which is also the person making them, as Ker Porter, the painter of the Persian
antiquity, seen only from afar, as invincible jump into the eye. [204] The whole mountain
district between dilemma and Iraq, through its gorges the river Schahrud, ie, the King River, with an effort
paves the way Rudbar means, ie, the river country, in of the Alamut for differences from the
South, Lur, in Issfahan's close, which the Sendrud, i.e. the living river, flowing through.
Hasan Ssabbah had Alamut's partly by force, half possession with cunning, [RN: 483/1090] then from
the Seljuk Sultan Berkjarok the near Damaghan situated castle Girdkjuh requested, and twelve
years after the occupation of the valley of Alamut in the same way fixed base situated castle Lembeser
[205]. In addition to Alamut, i.e. Geyer the nest, Girdkjuh, ie the mountain belt, and Lembeser,
that is, rest in the head, were the strongest castles of the Assassins (after the citadels
of the cities do and Cain) in Kuhistan: of the Meimundis, ie, the happy parties, which withdrew from
the last Grand Master, and Muminabad, ie the construction of the faithful that his name and probably
fixing the antepenultimate Grand Master, which resulted in the nickname of the new Musulman thanks,
whose Name in today's mutilation Meiomend [206] hard to see, and its extraordinary The strength
of Geography Hamdallah's anrühmt [207], so also that of the nearby mountains Demawend Firuskjuh,
that is, happiness mountain, and the castle or Dschenabdar Kebajed which not only been fortified
by the assassins, but by the son of the ancient Persian heroes Guder be should. [208]

[Marginal note: Kaswin.]

From Alamut the Hulagu proceeded in the first days of January in the large, seven Farasangen Kaswin
of whipped camp [RN: 16 Silhidsche 654 / 4 Jan.] 1257 out of seven days Festivals celebrated,
the princes and emirs admitted to waiting and congratulations to the conquest were, themselves,
and the astronomer Nassireddin of Tus, and the two sons of the two large Physicians from Hamadan, which
has contributed significantly through their advice on the transfer of Meimundis, were bestowed
the honor; the astronomer and his two companions were immediately in the wake Hulagu's excellent,
by the same on every occasion of their knowledge's sake. The Chuarschah was married to a Mongolian
girl and the wedding to Kaswin with festivals.

Hulagu treated him with indulgence to him the necessary orders to
the field of locks Hilfiger to get into Syria that they have the same
arrival of the Mongol army the same without delay want to pass.

After receiving this command from him, sent him as Hulagu Trophee to the court of Kaan's Mengku.
When he received the news that Chuarschah near, He said: Why do they send him? and sent to
meet him as a welcome his death warrant. He was killed, and then slaughtered his entire family, wives,
brothers and sons to Kaswin. This gave the bloody dynasty of the Persian Ismailije, ie, the
Assassins, a hundred and seven and seventy years moon reaches its end [209], and was the dagger
of the assassin broken by the sword of the Mongols. Hulagu stayed some time to Kaswin, where
he Moslems in the bath took a bath. Hamdallah of Kaswin, the historian and geographer of Persia, mentioned
in his chosen story of this visit as one of the most remarkable eras the history of his native
city, which from now on one of the capitals of the Mongol Empire in Persia, and therefore, under
the escort Hamdallah's worth closer acquaintance. [210]. First Shapur built [211] here is a city
that bore his name, as against the parties Dilemiten, the hostile neighbors to the north. At
a meeting delivered the same here as the Battle of the Persians on one side fell into confusion,
to the Chosroes his Generals have called: win at Marrakesh, that is, those angular look, and after
victories gained have the same built in memory of the city, which now the name Keschwin, ie
angle remained manageable, the current Kaswin. The Caliph of the house of Abbas Hadibillah
Musa added a add third city, Mubarekabad, that is, the blessed building, called, these three
cities embraced the Caliph Harun Reschid with a wall, which was named Reschidabad. The pretender
Ben Said Husein seized the city and later completed the construction of the same [212]. In the
government's Fachreddewlet of Bujiden renewed his famous vizier Ismail Ben Ibad the City and
enlarged the same after the construction of the district called after him Ssahibabad. Then [213]
by Ibrahim Ben Dilemiten Merseban devastated by the Emir Ebu Ali Dschaaferi restored and by
the great Sultan of the Seljuks, Alparslan, renewed [214], she was now by the Mongols been devastated
and amortization are. The wall of ten thousand three hundred cubits in circumference, was
with two hundred fixed thirty towers, had seven gates and embraced nine quarters, and six
underground Water pipes, of which the hermit Chumar Tekesch [215] built the good races water
There, the same also built half a century later, [216] said his name Mosque, and another had the
tyrannical governor Hidschadsch from an idol temple remodeled into a Betort the Moslems. The
Shiites hate the mosque because of their pulpit under the rule of the Beni Omeije Ali was cursed.
An even earlier tradition from the lips of Mohammed or one of the first four Caliphs is: Ehret Kaswin
which one of the highest gates of Paradise [217]. Kaswin has abundance of beautiful fruit, especially
melons, watermelons and grapes, which are for the good races all over Persia [218]; the blades
manufactured here compete with those of Khorasan and Shiraz, from the brands to distinguish the ends
of cloth sewn together from mannichfarbigen horse blankets. The inhabitants apply to the good
races of interest, and a Persian-known couplet betrays the Shah, to choose only four men from four
cities of his empire; musicians from Khorasan, businessmen from Issfahan, warriors from Tabriz and shareholders
from Kaswin [219]. To glorify literary fame Kaswin's meet the two secretaries Kaswini, the author
of Miracles the creatures [220] and the only pearl of the rare [221], that natural history,
this Geography, and Hamdallah Mestufi, the author of the chosen story [222] and the good races
Persian geography [223], so that Iranian natural history and peoples, earth and area description
no Persian city owe more than the richly talented social Kaswin.

[Marginal note: Hamadan.]

With the occurrence of the early years of Kaswin Hulagu proceeded to Hamadan where Baidschu Nujan of
Azerbaijan appeared for waiting. Hulagu, unhappy with his inaction, overwhelmed him with reproaches:
"What have you been Dschurmaghun no longer remained in Iran, have done? which Battle lines have
you broken, beaten, which rebels? Gave you the Mongolian army Something else to serve, than by
its power and size of the Khalifa frightened? "Baidschu knelt down and said, "I leave me no tardiness
guilty and, in my power, was done. From the gates of Rei's up to the frontiers of Syria, I've
got All subject, except for Baghdad, the vast crowd and where to access extremely difficult.
Besides, the command is in the hands of the Sultan, and I am ready from the same . To receive
life or death "This softened the submission Hulagu's wrath, he ordered him break, subdue the west
unto the sea, and on this side of the country's rum and to wrest from the other side of the Bosporus the
hands of the Greeks and Franks [224].

Baidschu Nujan had fourteen years ago with an army of forty thousand,
the hundred and seventy thousand strong Ghajaseddin Keichosrew, the
son Alaeddin's to Kösetagh defeated [225] and completed Now the conquest
Rum's up to the shores of the Mediterranean.

Hulagu proceeded with Prince Kuli, Belghai, Kotar and with the commanders Bukatimur, Sundschak,
Köke Ilka in the plain of Hamadan, in order to gather the army. Hamadan, the ancient insgemein
Ecbatana is held, according to all sources of Persian history and geography of one of the oldest
cities Persia, which already Huscheng, the second the Pischdadier built, Nabuchodonoser devastated
Darius is said to have restored. [226] Bedil, son Werka's, conquered the city in the three and twenty-first
year of Hidschret [227]; three hundred years afterwards [228] was of the same Medawidsch, the
Dilemiten, And again three hundred years later [229] of the Mongol armies devastated with general
massacre of the inhabitants. The city has abundance of water, even if the specified number of Hamdallah
sources (thousand three hundred) by errors copyist of one too many zeros. Two of the greatest philosophers,
aesthetes, indigenous of Hamadan, the poet Ibn Chaleweih and Bediesseman, ie, the rare miracle
of the time, have the climate as well as the residents in known verses [230] more criticized
than praised. The First said:

The cold is to Hamadan polyphonic, and sogestalt Is it the grim winter, summer moderately cold.

The strange miracle of time, the author of the first Makame, which are related to Hariri's
pattern served, said:

Although I was born at Hamadan, The same I can not praise yet; For his boys are precocious, like
old men, The old childish, after the boys' way.

The fresh green of the fields, the murmur of the sources banish all sorrow and agree to cheerful
zest for life, for which reason the inhabitants especially cheerful, Play and joking result,
moreover, that the birthplace of Hamadan two such excellent wits, than the two above-imagined,
here the Jew a pilgrimage to the grave of Esther's and Mordecai's, the Doctors at the Avicenne's
[231], the mystics to which one of the greatest Persian poets, namely: Aththar's, the author of
a dozen of the birds calls and rhyming books, namely: the book of the council, the tribulations
of the nightingales, the kantele, the secrets of the geese, of Chosroes,
the responses of Nöthen, the elect, of the divine, and Haider's, the
Biographers of the saints, the ascetic work of the Brothers of Purity
and other mystical in verse and prose.

    With the invasion of the Mongol army had been the one
    the sword lifted to kill the poet, as someone else said, slay this
old man do not I buy you from his life a thousand pieces of silver.

Beware, said Aththar me so low Give away price, you will find buyers who pay me dear. A few steps
further offered one else's life for Aththar a bag of straw, where
angry about, it struck the Mongol down.

    [232] Since that first invasion
    of the Mongols, which Chuaresmschah in the
    prosecution's unto the Caspian Sea and penetrated
    to the frontier of Arab Iraq, until the appearance Hulagu's from
Hamadan, seven and twenty years had elapsed, and before we Hulagu
with the Boundary from the Persian Iraq's Arab exceed that overlook
the fortunes we still Persia under Mongol rule in the first invasion
of the Mongols until the establishment Empire of the Ilkhanid elapsed
time.

[Marginal note: The Mongols in western Persia before Hulagu.]

Persia was divided by the Mongols in two governorships, of which the eastern Chuaresm Khorasan and
understand that Western Iraq, the Persian and Azerbaijan in itself. To Governor not to mix,
we first look to the western or actual Persia, which in that time had only two governors, namely
Dchurmaghun and Baidschu Nujan, and then only the east, where the events to more complicated
by the intrigues of the rival Manage the operations. When the Mongols in the prosecution's Chuaresmschah
for the first time Devastated area around Irbil, [RN: 633/1236] was preparing an army and the
Caliph Mostanssirbillah called on to help the Moslem princes, in the second invasion, they
took the city Irbil, the citadel, but not one; pushed forward and Schengabad Sermenrai, the Caliph
set of defense in Baghdad and called on all citizens to arms. At the red mountain (Jabal Hamrin)
above Tekrit the Mongols were beaten, and the prisoners who They towed away from Irbil and Dakuka,
removed, a corps of fifteen thousand Mongols, penetrated the soon to Dschaaferije, retired at the
approach of the Caliph. In the same years [RN: 635/1238] was a body of equal strength advanced
to Chanekin and suggested to them by the Caliph sent contrary, only half as strong. In the
north had they Gendsche's possession, and Dschurmaghun's armies flooded Georgia and Armenia.
He conquered the country between Arras and cure and in addition to Georgia's capital Tbilisi other
cities.

He besieged and ravaged Rei, thereby frightened, he helped the residents
Karssen of the keys of their city counter, were none the less efficient
the use of weapons Inhabitants slaughtered, with the exception of
children and artisans who dragged into slavery were.

The Armenian Prince Awak went with his sister Thamtha Gujuk to the court's to pray to the deferral
of his father's heritage, and they received this purpose the command to Dschurmaghun. After his death,
his followers Baidschu Nujan the conquests of his Pull up on. He turned his arms against Ersenrum,
Ersendschan, and suggested that in the Level of Akschehr at Ersendschan reinforced army of
the Sultan of Rum, with its allies two thousand of Johann Limminata from Cyprus and Bonifacio
de Castro commanded troops of Genoa; Such is the battle of Upper believed Kösetag which mountain
was called Alakjuh otherwise. [233] After the victories were gained over the Sultan Sivas, Tokat
and Kaissarije looted and ravaged; a general of the Sultan and the judge of Amasia came into
the Mongol camp of Sivas and negotiated under a peace, by virtue of which the sultan an annual
tribute of one hundred twenty thousand Gold pieces, five hundred substances, five hundred camels
to make five hundred slaves connected. [234] Keichosrew was too happy, that without his authorization
signed peace treaty . Confirm With their departure, the Mongols stormed Ersendschan and made
the inhabitants down. Malatia bought by the looting going on with four thousand gold pieces
to complete it the gold and silver church vessels, the holy shrines and relics boxes delivered
had to be. [235] Probably it was the same Mongol commander Irsane, which twice Bohemond V,
Prince of Antioch call, left to break the walls of its fortresses and to supply him with three
thousand young women, the demand was refused, but later paid the prince of Antioch to the Mongolian
toll.
 It will know it weißelt in the world. That's right, because
it is becoming to Christmas. "

Soon the whole lake and mountain country lay in a thick, solid snow veil. The rapidly something
fancy heads have already heard the ringing of meaning rapidly moving carriages, even though
none were sailing. The Christmas tables were already covered, because the whole country was like a
neat white-coated Christmas table. And the silence and lowness and heat of such a landscape! You
could hear all the sounds only half as if their Schlosser Hammers, and the carpenters their beams,
and the factory wheels their shovels, and the locomotives would have wrapped up their shrill
whistles with cotton or woolen blankets. We saw only the next thing, what could be measured with ten
steps, the distance was an impenetrable Geschneie and a busy painting over with gray and white.
The people were therefore knows mashed, and you could see under-five people are one of the snow
shook off the clothes. It was a peace there, things that one can not help everybody as satisfied
and had to take care and soothes.

And there must now go Tobler, by such a winter wonderland through, by rail to the city to a dialogue
with the attorney Bintsch to hold. But in his Page was at least his wife, who were riding,
a few gift items in the main urban department store shopping for
the impending feast.

In the evening there was again a train station scene, but this time a snowy and therefore a
little merrier. Pauline's laughter and joyful barking threw Leo in the snow darker tone stains
although usually a laugh and a habit of barking bright color, but what happened against the sparkling
white snow of brightness and shimmer to? They took back packets received, and a lady in furs
had got out and looked like the true, rich and gracious wife Christmas himself, and yet it
was only Mrs. Tobler, the wife of a businessman, and, moreover, a ruined. But she smiled,
and such a smile can from the poor and oppressed Woman to make a
half princess, because a smile always reminded of something respectable
and high Respectability.

The snow lay there until the actual day, clean and tight, because there were cold nights, the
white ceiling made freeze grinding. Joseph went to on Christmas morning the famous mountain. The
small paths meandered through the shimmering light yellow white meadows, the branches of a
thousand trees were überglitzert with frost: a sweet to play! The hours of farmhouses as in
this fine, white, branched superb, such as jewelry or Decorative houses, built for sight and
for the innocent understanding of a child. The whole neighborhood seemed to expect a high
princess as pretty and clean dressed saw them out. She seemed to be a girl, a shy and a bit
sickly, a infinitely delicate predisposed. Joseph walked up higher, and there stood out at once
the gray veil, which occupied the lower ground, fraying on, pierced by the most ardent Blue sky and
a sun so warm as in summer, made the stroller at an idle tale . Believe Hohe Tannen stood there,
loaded in a proud, powerful stance, with snow in the the sun melted
and fell from the large branches.

When Joseph came to the night already begun home burned, even in guest rooms, a Corner room,
we walked almost never, the Christmas tree. Tobler woman led the children to the same in and
showed them the presents. Pauline also was gifted, and Joseph was given a Box of cigars under
the observation that although the little but it was from the heart. Tobler was trying to give the
set a comfortable, wirtshäuselnden paint, he smoked the usual Pipe, and blinked his eyes with
the Christmas tree, around the lovely beamed. Mrs. Tobler smiled and said a few decorous words, for
example, how beautiful yet so a tree was. But she did not quite come out the mouth. In general
all faltered a bit, and there is no particular joy spread devotion to the few people standing
there, but it is put to all melancholy. Also, it was cold in the guest room and find Christmas cheer
ought to prevail, not because it could be cold. It was therefore always to the living room over,
to get there to get a little heat, and then came back to the tree. Each Christmas tree is beautiful
and each has forced emotion. Even the Toblersche was beautiful, just
the people standing around him, could no longer soar, and deep emotion
and joy.

"Because you had to have been here last year, those were the Christmas! Come on. Drink a glass of
wine, "Tobler said to the assistants and led him to the living room connect the heat. The latter
made an unhappy face, as if the cigars because was upset that he himself did not know exactly.
One is holding this year, said with a sigh the woman, not in the mood for something. It proposed tentatively,
one more to make "Jasso". Have you done it all year long, so they could once on Christmas Eve
access to the cards, then maybe it would a little funny in the room.

Sun was one to the playing cards refuge.

The tree was now shine and become lichterlos. The children were allowed half an Hours dealing with
the presents, after which they were sent to bed. After and after the air in the living room
Christmas verwirtshäuselte entirely. The laughter and behavior of three lonely people who drank
wine because, partly smoked cigars, ate some candy each other and playing cards, lost all shyness
and special peculiarity which still had about Hard to remember a hint. It was the usual manner and the
allerunfeierlichste Laugh. The mood, which is now dominated these players, but was not even
the familiar, cozy, because - but it was just Christmas, and the finer and more beautiful thought
that here and there flash did warned, flitting over the sin, the
party and the contents thereof in such a way as happened to have spoiled
and canceled.

Yes, alone, these three people, the loneliest of the assistant, because he felt that he, as one
flown down a house member was a member, stopped the slow, to be such; because he is not allowed
to say as Mr Tobler, he had the right to do in this house and to prevent or circumvent what he
pleased, because it was not his own, because he had want to celebrate Christmas and have since
it is but even in such a house, and in such a middle class family was, because he had the faith
in recent years, he lacked much of having to miss such things and
the bad temper because he of all three Card players was great and
this must have felt as an injustice.

"Is this now holy evening," he thought.

The woman said, among other things once, but it was not quite right,
Christmas cards to play.

With them at home there would have been nothing like this ever.

It was still really no way you because today wirtshäusele night again.

This offset in Unlaune, Tobler said: "We just heard on"!

He threw the cards on the table and exclaimed:

"Yes, it is not right, then something to do on Christmas Eve.

But what kind of a circle, we here? What are we? We can sweep the wind out of the house tomorrow.
Yes, where money is there is pleasure, parties, and, moreover, sacred to celebrate. Where wealth is
where happiness, success and general, domestic joy. Those who have three or more months through
unnatural must toil to the success of the business life, success,
and will then all of a sudden Celebrate gay?

Is such a thing possible? Am I right or not, Marti? He? "

"Not quite, Mr. Tobler," said the assistant.

                   There was a long-lasting silence that lasted longer, no one dared
to interrupt.

Tobler wanted something from the advertising Clock, the woman something of Dora, Joseph and
some of Christmas say, but all expressed their thoughts. It was as if his mouth was all sewn
up would be. Suddenly shouted Tobler:

"So doing it on your bills and say something soon. This is too boring, there goes one yes wiser
to the inn. "

I'm going to bed, "said Joseph and said goodbye. The others were soon to above, and that was
Christmas.

* * * * *

The New Year's week was strangely quiet and sentimental, the shops were down, it was little to
do but to a strange man, the inventor of an engine, in Office from time to time to receive.
This semi-rural, semi-cosmopolitan-inspired Owl visited this week the House Tobler almost daily by
the chief drive of the same, he wants to work for the genius, whose
designs he had left lying in the office, be active.

They laughed about the man, whose cause could not be taken seriously, but Tobler once said over
lunch so "but do not laugh: to the rest. The man is not stupid. "

The enthusiasm with which the turbine Creator championed the child
of his mind and lifted in almost sky-high importance, was much talking
and not provided in a bad way for entertainment in the quiet and sluggish
previous week.

The strange man had no precise and elegant form, he said the one hand as a young dreamer and
Bauer, and unlike some we could have him as a swindler or fair stall holders, because one
day he struck Mr Tobler public and under paid admission be visited
before display of the Selbstkrafterzeugmaschine in towns and cities,
in places where quite a lot of people to care romp over which idea
is not enough thought to have to laugh.

As should now Tobler once again an apparently very talented people on their feet To help so
that the same is not in a locksmith workshop contracts to workers as mentally to wane and needed,
but he, Tobler, himself, how was it for him, and where were the hülfsbereiten people who helped
him then?

"All come to him," said Mrs. Tobler, "all they think of him when looking for a willing, all
they have desire to exploit him and his gregarious nature, and he helps everyone. So is he.
"

The assistant made this week shorter and more walks in the cold but beautiful Winter landscape
areas and pictures inside. Since there were cars furrows on the road on the feet struck. Since
there were stiff frozen meadows, which started at the mountain, and cold, red hands that you
held before his mouth to hineinzublasen.

Dickbemäntelte people treated him, surprised him and nights in an unfamiliar area. Or was
there an ice rink on a what has been formerly grand park pond, moving and falling over people of
all ages and of both sexes out with the sounds, such prizes to the skating rinks to paint and
maintain.

And then he suddenly stood before Tobler's house, looked from the
bottom up to him and saw how the cold moon is enchanted, while the
half-dark Night clouds around it were flying, large, mournful, but
lovely women similar to it seems to pull up, so that it does dissolve
in a beautiful way.

At home, everything was so strangely silent, not even the Silvi more could be heard. The Virtues
and vices of the house Tobler seemed to be content on both sides and brotherhood have silently.
sat in the living room as the woman in the rocking chair, worked something or read something,
or they Dora was on her lap and did nothing.

"Like me in the summer outside in the garden have gereitschaukelt, Marti," she once said. They long for
the garden, she did not know how. As the already seems so long ago. Joseph Now half a year
is here, and it was there when he was already so much more around them. How they take so much into
such a feeling come.

She looked at the lamp. The look, which she did seemed to sigh. She said:

"You, Marti, have it actually quite good, much better than my husband and I, but me I will
not talk at all. You can go away from here, you simply pack up your few things sit in the
train and travel to wherever you want. You will find anywhere position because you are young,
and it is believed, when you see before you, you were working, and
you are there, too.

You have with anyone in the world, with no one's individuality and
needs, expected, it attracts no one off, hinauszuschweifen into the
distance and the uncertainty.

This is perhaps often bitter, but how beautiful and how free it can be. If it suits you, and
if you do the few small, do not allow very much enjoy in power relations,
then march You, and if you believe to be allowed to have a rest at
some fixed point and place back from, and who wanted, and what you
wanted and could prevent it?

They may sometimes unfortunate, but who is not, sometimes desperate,
but whose soul spare the trouble?

To nothing permanent you are bound to nothing and nothing too caught
retardant Loving handcuffed and chained.

You must sometimes outrageous running bio and air springer severally felt be that you see
so full of motion may permit.

And healthy you are too, and your heart may already sitting in the
right place, I can imagine, but you themselves often have behaved
so timid.

Maybe I'm ungrateful.

I have now all time ago to talk to you nice and long and quiet, and it has perhaps well made
that you have come to fly into the house, and I have often treated
you badly - "

Frau Tobler, "asked Joseph. They cut him off the floor and continued:

"Do not interrupt me. Let me take this opportunity to advise you if Once we are gone - - "

"But I'm going away no!" -

They further added:

"- - Are gone, and remember to make themselves
independent, to make it different from my Man, very different.

Smart before all things. "

"I'm not smart," said the assistant.

    
    "Will you stay for her whole life long employee?"
    
    He said that he did not know. It is troubling questions about the future
    much. She continued the word on and said:
    
    "Anyway, you have to see something up here, and memorize something, may
    have also learned You many things, if you have thought it worth while
    to open his eyes, and be You, like me, you already know to some extent,
    have done. They are a bit of experience, of knowledge of laws and become
    richer, and you are all perhaps ultimately may need. Not true,
    sometimes you're down on your mouth, and carried and they have endured
    many things. They had to! If I think so - oh, what I have, with a
    Word, feeling, Joseph, that you leave us now, soon, soon. No, you say.
    Share You better not. Some days we will surely remain so even still
    together or not? What do you mean? "
    

                                               "Yes," he said.

It was impossible for him to say more.

                   

The next day he sent for Christmas to get box of cigars by mail his father, the program add
the following letter:

Dear Father, here I make you a little New Year's gift. The Cigars are to me from my present Mr.
Christmas been given. Thou shalt certainly like to smoke, they are good, two I tried it, you
see, because two are missing. If I today with my erratic thoughts these two missing Pieces with
two errors compare to my properties attached, so I will really conscious of, first, that I'll
Never write, secondly, that I am poor, so that I'll never can send money, two shortcomings, I would weep if I
I would allow this. How are you? I am convinced that I 'm a bad son, but I am also entirely different
from the Penetrated certainty that I would be a good guy from son, if It would make sense to write
letters without positive content. to have to fight the life with which we think honestly, allowed
me to now do not please you. Adieu dear Papa. Stay healthy and let you taste the food well
and always start the New Year good at it. I'll try it.

Your son Joseph.

"He's an old man and still goes to the shops," he thought.

* * * * *

The hearings Tobler caused by his counsel, that the same Tobler mother wrote a letter in energetic
hues, but the laid-conscious old lady then replied that the rest of the son's claims was far from exhausted,
yes, that she herself had a look now enough old woman, as reflected in their old age right through,
and that of further disbursements of not more talk of Karl Tobler could be. The same man, they
almost want to say, unfortunately, her son had nothing else to do to bear as the necessary consequences
of his carelessness and reckless. In the Nature of business, in which he had thrown his property,
it has no income and livelihood of promise see reason. The house to the evening star was to
be handed over, it was the highest Time that Tobler fit back into modest living conditions,
learn to squeeze him, Seriously, how do other people have also to work. For him it was the best if
you leave it in the selbsteingebrockten soup, so he made the embarrassments
in he plunged see a lesson.

From her, the mother, nothing more was expected.

Tobler, the lawyer sent the notice, a copy of the mother was mad, when he had read the same. He
behaved like a wild animal that came unnatural Insults against his mother, in direct address, as
if it had been present and then burst, as once worn together.

This happened on the last day of the year in the technical bureau, which now so often the scene
of be undue and uncontrolled scenes had to. Joseph also had everything Would Lose and stunned
again considered and consulted. At that moment he would liked to up and gone away, but "what caused
it pull," he thought, "it is already by itself."

He felt sorry for Tobler, he despised him, and he was afraid of him at the same time. These
were three very ugly feelings, one and the other course, but also unfair. What caused him now to
stay longer the employee of this man?

The level-up? Yes, the also. But it was something completely different, something more important:
he loved from the depths of his Heart this man.

The pure color of a sensation made the spots of the three another forgotten. And because of this
one sense, the other three were always, almost from the beginning, been there, and so much
more lively. For what one liked, one of which is bound and closed felt that it was taking to
create, with whom he quarreled, at which suited him not much, he sometimes hated because he is
powerfully attracted to him always had felt.

The weather had turned on that last year's day with one wonderfully mild. The winter Nature seemed
to melt as it and weep silent tears of joy, for what ice and snow
might be, that went down as a cheerful, warm water, the slopes and
hills, the sea water to. It roared and puffed, as if a spring day
lost in the middle of the winter into would have. Such sun! The pure
day in May. The feelings of both varieties, the beautiful and the
painful that is now especially vivid in the chest of the assistant
moved, provoked the beautiful weather produced more reassured and
worried at the same time, so that he, as he ran to the post, was when
he was in there now for the last time the beautiful path, under these
known, good trees, all the things and faces over the winter and summer
was always pleasant to look at were.

He joined Bachmann & Co. and
asked for Wirsich he quite ten days is not had seen, and with whom
he is for the New Year's Eve for a cozy gathering arrange for thought.

The
Wirsich? The had long since departed. This was indeed a pure impossibility
been to the . Keep Who was indeed the half and whole day drunk.

Joseph
apologized and left the shop. "Is that possible," he thought, and
went slow Step to the post office. In the mailbox was a New Year's
card to his wife white on which this woman wished him good luck and
prosperity. He smiled, closed the compartment to and went on his way
home when he struck the direction of the highway. The Inn the "rose"
grazing, lying on the street, he saw the same Wirsich, at one Table
sat and rested his head in despair at the terrible palm. The face
of the unfortunate Man was pale as death, his clothes were dirty,
and his eyes had all life lost. Was not much between the two spoken. The
consciousness of evil usually takes no words. The Assistant drank quite strong, as it were, to the
comrades in more detail at a soul level and for a piece of understanding to , Back when he felt
that here the sober sense and reason have been almost inappropriate would be. Time went by,
he was telling how it had come from that the other the good life items had to be chased away
again.

"Come on, Wirsich, we want to go for a walk," then said Joseph. They paid, the arrest of the wavering,
and bleak by the arm, it was already afternoon become and they went together, only a piece of straight
ahead, uphill, friendly over the meadows. How mild it was. How could there can talk and joke
when accompanied would have been a child, a girl or a beautiful lady. How do I contact when it
half would have been allowed, could kiss. On a bench in high mountains, perhaps. Or, as they
had spoken about having a brother, or how it could have been there when Wirsich been a sedate,
the world experienced and good-natured old gentleman would. Would have laughed at you, and a serious,
but quiet word would have hingesprochen nice on. But if you Wirsich looked, you had to secretly
angry with the circumstances and fortunes of the world and anger for Wirsich offered no beautiful
sight dar.

Joseph thought of Tobler and his heart beat softly. How he came to the whole half Day of business
and house to stay away, without asking for permission?

He made uncomfortable accusations.

And in between it was almost his remendy sacred. The whole landscape seemed to pray, so friendly,
with all the soft, muted earth tones. The green of the mats smiled from the Snow, this was from the
sun to white areas and islands have been divided.

Now it began On to evening, and now he could not have wished but it would be better not to Wirsich
went for a walk.

But! He had done quite well because he felt lively. This man had an accident could are not left
entirely alone. And now fit the shape of the drinker at a time wonderful in the area and in
the twilight of the evening.

Even people set fire to houses Lights on, have seen the colors do not anymore, only the softer
and wider outline, and she went home, and strangely, they beat both the road to Tobler's home
without have made any agreement to which.

Tobler was not at home. The woman was sitting in the living room in the dark, all alone, the
Lamp she had not yet lighted, and Pauline and the children were still
out there somewhere in the area.

She was startled by the unexpected arrival of two such evenings fellows
But she recovered herself quickly turned on the light and asked Joseph
why he have to eat today was published, Tobler had upset that he was
angry, and they fear it will 'll be back to something unpleasant.

"Good evening, Wirsich," she said to the other and shook hands, "how are you?"

"So! It goes like this, "made of. Joseph took the floor:

Frau Tobler, would you allow me, for tonight my friends with me in the tower room to keep? I think
he is embarrassed, he should stay where it was because in the 'Rose' down there, but I will
have done my best to try that he was prevented to return there. Wirsich has just lost his new
position in life, through their own fault, he knows himself. His money he has drunk. If he
is now in the See crashed, he commits a thing, what well-situated people can easily shrug their
shoulders, But this is terrible and never to improve. He is a drunkard and a barely to saving people,
I speak it here, even before you yourself, Wirsich out loud when it sets natures, as he is
to retain any measure, because absolutely no attitude longer there. But he must not go now
based, and as for me, I'll take it as my best friend and fellow openly in a house where I worked
as a laborer, and am familiar with as a resident. I'm going to go out with him a little, for
it has Today, New Year's Eve no point in locking yourself in a room, dry and listless; I think
on the contrary the night with my predecessor that I'm just, peaceful and decent by carousing,
for so it is today so all people who believe it possible to allowed. I will then return with Wirsich
here, for him to stay at the top to me To let Mr. Tobler may now take the ill or not. I wanted
to tell you this, ma'am, say in advance. Much of what has me all this time in arousal can
put encountered here in my heart now that I've looked at the misfortune of my comrade, equanimity
and most of all peace. I venture to the next life deeply and carelessly and too hot the eye look.
I trust my little strength sincere, and that's more as if a wagon loads of hay barn full capabilities
and forces, but possessing the same not trust him or they do not
know.

Good night, Mrs. Tobler, I thank you that the Quality had to listen to me. "

Mrs. Tobler said the two good night. The children came back just at this moment. "The Wirsich
is there," she cried in a bright, funny from joy. He had to give all the hand and all the bystanders,
had the strange feeling that had begun as a now Wirsich, again a member of the House of Tobler
to be, or as he was during all this time his Absence of a left as if he had only gone into another
room and there would have been a something extravagant, over-stressed
book reads as if its only an hour digression or take two, so now the
Wiedersehensfröhlichkeit spoke of the children for him.

As was also the woman who had a severe cold face and want to set up, again usual affable and-cheerful,
and she said the two who had already entered into the garden were, but they should as well look out
to a little extent, and not drinking and fetal too high to cut the cord. That Wirsich here
at Tobler, where he would sooner as the family 've heard, could stay
that are, of course.

And they will be with her husband already speak a word, so there was no scene.

"Good night, Mrs. Tobler, Dora adieu, adieu Walter," resounded from the mouth after Joseph's House
back.

Down in his little house sang a song of the flagman.

The man's voice was warm, as It seemed to fit perfectly into the
mild night.

                   The song sounded so smooth and sounding like that to him, as we heard
it, were confident that it will still have the old year out drown
into the new one, and over do.

Joseph Marti and Wirsich were moving too slowly on the road against the village.

* * * * *

Which operated the two New Year's comrades in the village and during the night and did which
farms they visited, how many glasses they drank, what kind of conversations they brought together
to describe what is important and that would in essence the unimportant and move over insignificant.
They said to maintain what colleagues say, and they acted, how about New Year's Eve usually act,
that is, they gave themselves a slow, But the more enjoyable and
more purposeful noise down.

In one of the many bears Wiler Restaurants, they roamed Tobler, who was sitting at the table
with friends and oddly enough, on Religion spoke. Joseph listened as best he could hear, as
called out his boss, he educate his children, according to the principles of religion, but he believed
himself to anything, hear anything on if there was a man. The two employees, current and former,
gave the engineer because of his violent talk sympathy no attention.

At twelve clock, the bells began to sound on and sound to the beginning of the new year ringing
and thundering display. At the port played the village music, accompanied and succeeded by the
choirs of the male voice choir. Many people stood around, their faces lit by torches, the nightly
concert.

Joseph noticed the insurance agent who was good with Tobler, but the angry horticulturists, the
worst enemy of technical enterprises, under viewers and listeners.

The hosts made good business that night, better than in other weeks.

Some people Today, drank a bottle of very good, and that the year had been drinking only beer.
Some allowed himself something he otherwise would probably not allowed to permit, led to the
beautiful, bold Invoices, and these were immediately paid in cash.

Mrs. Tobler had come accompanied Pauline to the midnight music, silent
and shamefaced, in contrast to the insolent eyes, which she found
among her fellow citizens that it is a joy made to bring the woman
in perplexity.

She was now a lonely, little respected, not terribly popular woman, but she endured it.

By late morning awoke in the tower room two still tired heads. It was bright Day and eleven, half
past eleven clock, so already nearly noon. Quickly dressed Marti and Wirsich in to go down.
The Bureau has stood Mr. Tobler. His anger as he the latecomer and the unqualified intruder
saw, knew no bounds. He was near working to beat Joseph.

"Not only," he exclaimed, "that the whole previous day, without even a word of apology say,
or the notice, and have stayed away durchgelungert the night, have They also still the impudence
to miss a new half-day and slept. Outrageous There are perhaps this is down here today to do
anything substantial, added, However, they may therefore someone shops sake, and what makes an
impression then that, if must tell the maid to the newcomer, the scoundrel of employee'm still
up in its nest. Shut up. Be glad when I left and not right as you earn it, slap. And also has
the guts to long in the company of a man who, when he not instantly now out of the dust makes
on Niewiedersehen as I command him, other and to expect clearer. And, comes with a serenity
that only the best Gallows bird, but not the guilty be employees
of the house is fitting to end Tobler.

This house is still a house and my house, and because of the uncertainty
in which it is is, no one can make me a fool and boys, most of all
my past employee, I pay out the reward, so he has to live.

Put down at the desk and work. Write.

There is one last attempt to make the advertising Clock. Take the Pen. "

The assistant said in a final peace offensive:

"They pay me the rest of the promised reward from."

He hardly knew what he said he had only the specific end-consciousness. It would be impossible
for him was to take pen in hand, he trembled so much, so he said involuntarily that which offered
the greatest opportunity to get to the end with all these things.

Tobler was also because out of all text.

"Have it out of here immediately to the house. Away! Add to my enemies! I need you no more. "

He showered with insults Joseph, first heavy, then more and weaker,
until the sound the anger was gone over thoroughly in action and pain.

Joseph was still there.

It seemed him to the whole world should have compassion, a little also, but strong and thoughtful
with everything around him. Wirsich had long been temporarily stepped out into the garden.
The dog wagged his old acquaintances. Tobler woman stood at the window of the Living room and
listened with cocked ears through the walls and walls, which from below her might penetrate.
At the same time she watched the movements of standing in the garden, past Assistants.

"I'll do even these few letters, Mr. Tobler, then I go," she spoke from the desk.

Whether he would leave without pay? Tobler said.

The other replied that it was he no longer possible to remain what Tobler said that was surely
be regarded not as serious bleeding.

The boss took his hat and went away.

After an hour went to the assistant, as unobtrusively as he could
in his tower room and go up there began to pack his few belongings.

Then he took the series back to these small, nothing much for him
and important objects in his hand to it neatly but quickly held ready
to put the case.

When he finished packing, he stood for two Minutes at the open window
and looked again really with the grateful hearts the Area on.

The big lake down there, he even threw a kiss, without thinking what
he did, but simply in the sense of a sudden leave-taking had become
necessary.

From the platform on which he was now, he called to Wirsich: "Wait. I come in Moment "-. Then
he went down the stairs, the suitcase in his hand supporting.

Like him Heart beat!

"I must now say good-bye, I must go now," he said to Mrs. Tobler. This said,

"What's has happened? Do you need to go? "

"Yes," replied the assistant.

"Think a little bit of me when you're gone?"

He bent down and kissed her hands. She said:

"Yes, Joseph, do you think a little of Mrs. Tobler, it will not harm you. This is a Woman, as
many, no remarkable woman. Let! Kiss me now no longer held.

Say goodbye to my children. Walter! Come on. Joseph wants to leave
us.

Come, Dora, give Joseph's hand. Come on. . Yes, "-

She paused a moment and then continued:

"It will certainly go well,
I hope and wish for it, and I almost white.

Always be a little humble, not too much, your husband, you will always have to make. But you rush
to never let the first words of ill-will remain unanswered; to a violent first word yes as
soon follows a demure, soft.

Get used to because sensitivity to defeat in silence. What women have to do every day is to
the man do not entirely ignore. The life of the world so subject to the same laws such as domestic
life, only bigger and wider. Just never stormy! Do you have anything what belongs to you, wrapped
up? Now go to Wirsich? Listen, Marti, but never forced, always a
bit like.

Then you will move forward already. I, I'll go away soon. This house is lost. We are, me and my
husband and my children, then somewhere in the city to live, probably
in a cheap lodging.

You get used to everything, and is not it a little bit like you are
still here have been with us.

Is not it? It was but pretty much. Would you Tobler can not say goodbye? "

With all my heart, "said the assistant. She took the last time the word:

"I'll tell him it will please him. He deserves it to you that you did not resent, he has been
fond of you, like all of us.

They have been our employees - no, Go now. Good luck, Joseph. "

She offered him her hand and then turned to their children, as if nothing happened further. He picked
up his suitcase from the floor and left.

And then the two left, and Marti Wirsich, the evening star.

Once at the bottom on the road, Joseph stopped, pulled off one Tobler's stumps his pocket, lit
it, and turned on again by following the house.

He greeted it in thought, then they went on.

He vowed to himself, to give trouble by he can go. "He vowed to himself, give himself trouble
by

beneficial use for insertion.

Such a field is expensive, beneficial to the insertion . Use "Such a field is expensive;

»Advertising Clock-thrown." Pinned good thing I 'throw me the word

Rank and education differences fall mercilessly in a large, up to rank and education differences
fall relentlessly in a large, up

was hot and she forgives him, but
that they gave themselves accountable, and it was hot forgiven him,
but they turn an account stated

to kiss einums other at the lush
mouth.

How terribly hurt time after time to the lush mouth kiss. How terribly hurt

Depth was on to the unergündlich race. The woman held her deep seated
himself at the unfathomable to Wet.

The woman held her

"My lady," thought Joseph, "does not understand a word of French. The "My lady," thought Joseph,
"Does not understand a word of French.

The

to help the house, people, just with the davar once, and so to help the house, people, who were
just there with one, and so

Tobler's possession no secret not undermined and Tobler's possession
does not secretly not undermined and

"Aha!"

Was the assistant. "Aha!" Was the assistant.

Tobler asked Joseph if he now actually has a fairly Tobler asked Joseph if he now actually has a
reasonably

"No, not yet." Joseph had not yet found time to do so today.

"No, not yet." Joseph Today I found no time for it.

the hands of eager assistants, conducted up into the dark air, the hand of the zealous Assistants
conducted up into the dark air,

reside. If he now claimed such, it was now simply a stop.

If Such now he claimed it was simply a

, Deposit on the Joseph could always make up their minds. , Joseph could settle on the least
prepare yourself.

all to continue if you think you harmed by it, but do 'not completely
gone, if you believe harmed by it, but do not

its air chamber, had
made themselves comfortable: his pleasure chamber, had made themselves
comfortable:

Half an hour later it was in the garden at the house
drinking coffee a half an hour later there was in the garden shed
over coffee one

to the perception of his language a fun painting
to the sensitive clay its a fun language to paint

Cushion!

Ah, that was Silvis cry!

He arose, went to the door, cushion: Ah, that was Silvis cry! He arose, went to the door,
It resulted in a guidance offered by the assistant into conversation
that resulted in a by the assistant initiated conversation that

She
pulled him to come near her window, and he began her Vonder it drew
to the window, and he began it by the

Voice adieu and goodbye. How
her eyes shone when he voice adieu and goodbye. How her eyes shone
when he

manigfaltigen errors: how right. And the idea of ​​lots,
as required! manifold errors: how right. And the idea of ​​lots, as
required!

wet. The Bahnwäter came up. The same was living nearby,
he was wet. The signalman came up. The same was living nearby, he
was

nothing important is concerned, the following fact: saw nothing
important busy following fact:

around, and as long as the structure
had pleasure to stay there, liked it around, and as long as they Structures
were in the mood to stay there, it might

part from dizziness or from
continuing torrential narrative imagination in part of dizziness or
from continuing torrential narrative imagination

Urge to philosophize,
or stepped to the jailer rattling urge to philosophize, or the prison
guard came to the rattling

"Hole" was always full of smoke. The jailer,
an apparently "hole" is always full of smoke was. The jailer, an apparently

in
the living room look like, and how the children behave in the living
room and said, look, and how the children behave, and said

the dining
table was. the dining table was.

looked to crush his opponents in
anstäniger way. Finally saw his opponent in decent As prostrate. But it must happen quickly. "

Joseph had little need to say goodbye to the men, he said good night and briefly walked away. The
others listened and did not even notice it anymore, because now had very different to do.
The lay half on the ground, half on the drawing board without looking particularly at what they
were sitting. The chairs were used as a footstool, and with the graphic designs Tobler came the
sleepy and funny ones in closest contact. Tobler stuffed back and her reeling, his tobacco pipe,
and when at last came the wine, he set out with great difficulty and clumsiness in the business
of filling glasses, what then began drinking, associated with snoring and Hochaufgähnen and half
was mixed. What little good reason, that the engineer had available, he now believed at one
time used to be should explain to the gentlemen and comrades, the Tobler's inventions, but
he found only to laughter and otherwise to no understanding. The seriousness of the male world
view was in a dropped and broken wine glass and its contents distributed on the ground. The
male and human mind roared and hooted and mumbled that the walls the house trembled almost. Tobler
had now all that he had just staged, down still recall the little considerate idea to his
wife in a loud voice in the office, to her, as he said, presenting his good friends from the village.
She came infected, but his head through the door, she had opened, so here, and disappeared
again thrown back of which, as she herself said the other day to her husband, disgusting and obscene
image, which is their eyes, offered, and which is not a Dutch painter convincing drunk scene
deterrent and could have made her, than how it lived in truth and reality and stirred. The drinking had
with the disappearance of the woman still far from reaching its end, On the contrary, they blazed,
and cooked and burned until the early morning and up to the exhaustion of that total, which sometimes
overcomes the biggest drinkers finally over the neck in order to to bend and stretch to the length
and breadth under tables and chairs. How it happened, and the lively company spent the night,
writhing with snoring in the technical office, Pauline came up to heat the oven. It was day. The
journeyman awakened. The two bears Wiler zottelten back to their village communities, and closer
home, while Mr. Tobler went up, into his room and his wife, to sleep off the intoxication and assault.

Pauline
had to do a real tough job, the ravaged and disfigured Bureau again to some extent in order.
When Joseph arrived at eight clock down, it looked bitterly bad from
it so that he decided to immediately go to the post.

Everything was mixed up, Chairs, drawing, writing and drawing objects, glass and cork. Ink was spilled,
red and black. Wine floated on the ground. One bottle was knocked off the neck. It Bears seemed
to have badly shattered not only bears Wiler in the space that was filled with a smell, that it seemed
one would have ten days in a row to keep the windows are open to here again to get clean, comfortable
and homely.

At the post threw Joseph's letter to the liquidator in the box. "For all cases," he thought.

*
* * * *

                   The following day went to the home of his parents' assets Tobler four
thousand marks to.

That was little, but at least it was something, it just sufficient to bring the allerungeduldigsten
and satisfy the sharpest preceding oppressors. Joseph had long been a list of creditors together,
and so were now out of this colorful meadow the most hotly fragrant flowers chosen, at least temporarily
stun them. In those angry eyes and blinding Plants were among others the gardener, who said he
would not be resting, until he saw the place and seized Tobler driven away, the power station that
was so scornfully with had shrugged his shoulders, and placed the beautiful lighting, a locksmith
from the neighborhood, this "ungrateful dog," as Tobler called it, where you just had made up
the throw "money at the feet would be" the butcher, but from now on and "not eat meat "More from this butcher!
The bookbinder, the "old camel, which seems to be happy, etc., Watch manufacturers, which "you
could not blame their insistence, however, very much," the metal products manufacturer, of the copper
tower built and had settled, and some that money probably "deserved."

Half a day was enough to clog this loudest and most outrageous claims,
the mouth, But the money was gone.

What did four thousand marks for above and indebted to the house? A small amount of this sum was given
to the household, and a even tinier Joseph received as a salary payment.

It was a sunny morning snow, with blue skies and winds and wet snow
on the ground, as the assistant had gone from house to house, to pay
out amounts.

Also the prosecution officials, he was gone. And how soon the money disappeared, he noted becoming
easier on the pocket.

Against the afternoon arrived a letter from the lawyer Bintsch, wherein
the same said it is to expect nothing more from the mother.

He tried his best, the woman convincing, but his efforts were left to his chagrin, without success.
He advised Therefore, in Tobler, to bear with calmness the consequences of these fruitless.

Tobler
screwed up as he read this letter, his face painful to be regarded Grimace. He seemed to master
a nameless rage. Then it broke loose from him and threw him into
a chair as if hundredweight loads have crushed him.

He gasped with his strong chest that threatened to burst, like a bow too tightly strained.
His face looked up from below as if it were from above niedergepreßt of fists been. On his
neck temper seemed vast and sweeping and pushing mode weights lie, live weight. The color
of his face was dark red. Some seemed to him to Air to have become thick and stony, and the invisible-visible
form appeared to now close to raise Tobler next to him comfortably together but cold quivering
on the shoulder to knock. The need for iron itself seemed to have whispered to him. "Man! Experiments
Your Last! "

Tobler opened his American heavy rolling desk, took of grunting and back bends, as if he had been
in pain, a pen in hand, a sheet of paper to his mother a to write letters. But the letters that
he put danced before her eyes.

The console flying high on its runaway sensation, the Bureau turned, he had to stop. He said, rattling
voice to Joseph:

"Make calls Bintsch and you ask him to tell you when it leads to a discussion with me you can be
ready. Tell him it would have the biggest rush.

"

Joseph sent at once to obey the command sequence. He was excited, saying maybe somewhat unclear, it
was possible that he had not been understood, in short, it took a long time before he could
speak with Dr. Bintsch. Behind him was the Tobler Stairs up here and now stood behind the assistants,
the presence of such pathological excited lord and master even more confused, so that, as now,
the desired compound was made, he struggled with the lawyer in stammering talks without to be understood,
to be able to.

That was too much for Tobler. With an ugly-sounding cry of rage he threw the clumsy Speakers
to the side, that the same anflog the doorframe of the living room, and took himself the telephonic
handset to cause the accident conversation ended and the necessary decision to let yourself say.

His anger was gone, but he was shaking violently. He got fever and had to to lie on the Ruhbett
on the same one that had taken recently Dora. "Is Father ill? "Asked them now. Mrs. Tobler,
the concern next to the lying and moaning Man was said to the girl: "Yes, child, father is
ill. Joseph has annoyed him, "said they roamed the assistant with an astonished and contemptuous
look that same to the office hunted down. Having reached his desk, he tried, as if nothing had happened,
to work, but it was not work, what he did, but a key to tapping and shaking, scattered fingers,
a concern to be indifferent, one can not something else, nothing, something black. His heart was
pounding fit to burst.

Later he was summoned to coffee. Tobler had now gone up to his bedroom. The meeting with the lawyer
could only take place next day, and by then it was to do so for the engineer in the wide world,
apparently, and apparently, temporarily no more. What efforts could still have a real purpose?
What plans were not ridiculous? And sick! It did the hunted man as well, to think he could
lie in bed and to the Next day to lie undisturbed. He did say if Joseph go to the post, he
would bring him some good cigars to take home. "And for some oranges Dora, Joseph," added Ms.
Tobler. This resulted from the orders.

After dinner, the children had already been put to bed, "said the assistant to Mrs. Tobler,
it was difficult for him to remain longer in a house whose chief not afraid to him after he had
been insulted him often enough with words now and physically assaulted to insult. That was too
much, and he thought he would do best right now to go up to Tobler, and to tell this man how rude and stupid
his actions were. He could no longer work he clearly felt. One you stumble around and throw approach
into Doors, who was probably unable to get benefits. Such a one must be an ass, and good for nothing,
or is it's not even possible to have it so happened it was like to be treated. This he hit the
From breathing. He meant, even if he come not as fast and loose all the time that he now up
here have passed, would have driven, so could not even the physical shame and disgrace , And
justify it? If he had not always been a bit of trouble? He at least knew it that he had worked occasionally
with love and joy and with all his powers, if the forces are not always, he must admit that it
is compliant, just requirements would can. Whether one as it happened, the attempts to be
efficient and honest with and , Treat Me?

He cried.

Mrs. Tobler said coldly: "My husband is sick, as you know, and a failure will not make just be
welcome. But if you like, and if you believe it to us up here now suddenly no longer able to
endure, so you just go up to him and say him what you have on your heart. I think you will be
befitting to you and your conduct, short and concise will know. "

The assistant remained seated. Then he got up and said. "I am going quickly to the Post"

"So you do not want to go up to my husband?"

No, Mr. Tobler was sick, "said Joseph, we must not disturb him. He did, however now nor the inclination
to take a walk.

Outside, it received a clear, cold world. Something high and curved from one world. It was become
cold. The feet were banging on rocks and ice chunks. An icy wind blew through the trees. Shone through
the branches of the same stars. His heart was full, he went like possessed. No, he did not go away.
He was afraid, Mrs. Tobler would become their Man divulge everything go. Following this idea, he
accelerated and drove his steps. His salary he had received and paid
also still not final.

Item. The main thing was: stay in the house. "How rude to have me so deplored," he cried in the
winter night out.

He decided to kiss Mrs. Tobler knees to his hands.

They sat in the living room when he entered it again. He started in the door, which he did Carefully
zuschloß to talk about:

"I'll have to say, Mrs. Tobler, as well that you are still sitting
here that I fully in the wrong feel, therefore, that I have made against
my chief complaints.

I am too hasty been, and I ask that you forgive me. I have behaved foolishly, and Mr Tobler,
in the excitement he threw the unfortunate letter lawyer. Have you been at your Man? Did you
tell him to? "

"No, I have not said anything to him," replied the woman.

"I'm glad," said the assistant, and he sat down.

He continued: "And I come here to come jump in light of the fear that it would have been him
to have said. It everything I'm sorry for what I said. They say the storm of feelings, ma'am,
so very some things should not be expressed. I am so glad that you said anything yet. "

This was talked sensible, "said Mrs. Tobler.

"I have decided to plunge your feet and knees do apologize," stammered the assistant.

So be not needed anything, ugh, she said.

They were silent for a while. It was so beautiful to the employee in the room. That was something that
was like a home. And how often was in earlier times by the moving and deserted Streets have gone
with the cold and evil and throwing down leaving feeling in my heart.

He was so old in his youth.

As it was conscious, never at home be crippling, and can choke inside. How nice it was to belong to
someone, into hatred or in impatience, discontent, or in devotion,
in love or sadness.

This magic man in such homes, as was Joseph have always felt charmed sad when he made any window
left open to themselves, the lonely and tossed and Homeless down reflect, looked to the standing down
on the cold street. As fragrant Easter, Christmas or Pentecost or the New Year to those windows
out, and how poor expected at the thought of this ancient and beautiful golden only the barren,
hardly be sensed mitgenießen reflection to be allowed. This beautiful prerogative of the bourgeoisie.
This quality in the Faces. This peaceful weaving and let live! He said:

"It's so stupid to believe the same is so offended."

He was right when he said that meant the woman, as she went quiet in a sub-jackets for Dora to knit
or crochet. She added:

"And I have to, his wife, not even tolerate all kinds endured by him and? He is now just once
the master of the house, and that is a responsible position, and the rest of the residents and
challenge members toleration and respect. Of course he should not offend, but can he always kept
in check? Can he tell his anger is reasonable? The rage and Irritability are just not reasonable.
And the rest of us who have the obvious advantage his orders, the draft plan and work hard if he
might obey his nod, their wisdom, we see almost always be followed, we do it in times of unrest
and The insurgents understand just a little out of the way to go. We should have learned to treat
him as a lord and master will also in a certain way be treated. We should be clever and charming
in moments when he's calm and security forces not more, as usual, is aware of where we him incapable
of still, as before, to dominate, see. And if we are plump, and, according to our conditions
expected, full of mistakes have been, we must not be overly offended if his Voice and the incredible
amount of his worries and distress andonnern us. Marti! Believe me, I am often full of anger
was the same man who today has wronged you, you should offended, and in the most degrading
manner is said to have offended. Well, we just set ourselves the dignity and forgive a little
down, because - you have to his master, and superiors .

                   Forgive What would become of enterprises, from households, shops
of all kinds, from homes so, what should the world itself, if the
laws henceforth not all at once likely to have a tweak and push a
little and hurt?

Did you all year long so the blessing of obedience and imitation
enjoyed that one will occur one day or evening was allowed and was
allowed to throw in the proud chest and was allowed to say: do not
insult me? No, the Offended If one is yes but not there, but not to
anger-reason-giving. When confusion can not help it that they were
stupid acts, it is not the anger as quickly for her snorting and raging
to blame. And there is always the question of where you are and who
you are. I am so pleased with you, Joseph. Give me the Hand. You can
talk to you, and we go to bed now. "

* * * * *

Christmas approached. Discuss it, it only Discuss and be u ͤ convinced,
sen each word for good or Bo ͤ is a magic spell that his one foot of its territory narrowed.

This is the Scholars ͤ ne with good cause, and the o ͤ public opinion and the new time, and if
Once the three are on the move and seek not, they miss each other not.

Yes, I have no doubt that ͤ o Public opinion is formed and they will resent, as I, with the
Low German and the rumble is over the co u ͤ ͤ heads go of our farmers
and will - be contagious. As the two sat together again, they, the "incomprehensible woman" and he,
"of the" odd man. Joseph had to laugh out loud. What does he have? -

"Oh, nothing. Stupid things. "

She said, becoming serious, he would allow no such opposite her jokes. He said to this note,
he was the clerks of the house Tobler, whereupon she said, she hoped that he had the distinct feeling
that he was this, he threw the cards he in the Hand-held, on the table, trembled and said that
a serious and solid employee's was not accustomed to playing in every
night into cards. He got up and went by He expected that she would
call him back, after the back door. She let him go. Half a minute later came Mr. Tobler and two other men,
apparently regulars from the "Sail", a to the office, talking loudly and laughing, and apparently,
fully drunken arrogance.

What Joseph had to work so late at night? asked in an unsteady voice Tobler. He still had at
least a truly hard-working and devoted assistant, as it seems, He further remarked, as he
laughingly turned his Jaßkollegen. But now he should make only quiet day because tomorrow it
be day again. Then he went to the door, which led into the house
and shouted as loud as he could: Pauline!

"Mr. Tobler?" Came the reply from above.

"Bring us to the office
a couple of bottles of Rhine wine. But, he fu ͤ gte added asking what conclusion you give your work? I do think you can, if the second
question cheap defaults filled ͤ, the third not quite unanswered. Which means hold ͤ fu r the extermination
of the Low German language ͤ fu r the best?