John told the fellow if Cole were there he would not dare do that, and Gillcreas said Cole
should be in prison, and all Quantrell’s men with him. Gillcreas went away, but returned to
the attack, this time armed with a heavy slungshot.  In the meantime John had gotten the pistol
which had been in the wagon.  Gillcreas came up to resume the fight and John shot him dead.
The slungshot was found with the thong twined about Gillcreas’ wrist.

                               John Younger

The coroner’s jury acquitted John, and there were many people in Independence who felt that
he had done just right.

When I went to Louisiana in 1868 John went with me, afterward accompanying me to Texas.  Clerking
in a store in Dallas, he became associated with some young fellows of reckless habits and drank
somewhat.

One day, while they were all in a gay mood, John shot the pipe out of the mouth of a fellow
named Russell.  Russell jumped up and ran out of the room.

“Don’t kill him,” shouted the crowd in ridicule, and John fired several random shots to keep
up the scare.

Russell swore out a warrant for John’s arrest, and next morning, Jan. 17, 1871, Capt. S. W.
Nichols, the sheriff, and John McMahon came up to the house to arrest him.  John made no resistance
and invited the officers to breakfast, but they declined and went back down town.  Thompson
McDaniels called John’s attention to the fact that a guard had been stationed over his horses,
and they walked down town together.  Tom and John drank some whisky, and while they were waiting
Nichols and his party had taken on some too.

“What did you put a guard over my horses for?” asked John, when he entered the room where Nichols
was.

“I did not put any guard over your horses,” replied Nichols.

“You’re a——liar,” continued John, “I saw them there myself.”

At this another Russell, a brother of the one whose pipe had been shot out of his mouth, opened
fire on John and wounded him in the arm.  Thomp. McDaniels shot Capt. Nichols, and in the melee
McMahon was shot, as far as I have ever been able to learn, by my brother.

John and McDaniels went out, took the officers’ horses and rode to Missouri.

It developed after the shooting that the same Russell who had opened fire on John had placed
the guard over the horses, and that Capt. Nichols had not known of it.

I was away in Louisiana at the time, but on my return several attorneys offered to defend John
if he would return for trial, but after a visit at the home of our uncle in California he returned
to Missouri in the winter of 1873 and 1874, just in time to be suspected of the train robbery
at Gad’s Hill, on the Iron Mountain road.

John and Jim were visiting at the home of our friend, Theodoric Snuffer, at Monegaw Springs,
St. Clair county.

Man-hunters had sought us there on a previous occasion when we were all four there.  We had
come upon the party of 15 suddenly, and I covered them with a shot-gun, demanded their surrender,
and explaining that we had not robbed anybody, and wanted to be treated as decent citizens,
approached by officers of the law in the regular manner if we were accused, restored their
arms to them, and they went back to Osceola.

March 11, 1874, J. W. Whicher, a Pinkerton detective from Chicago, who had been sent out to
arrest Frank and Jesse James at Kearney, was found dead in the road near Independence, and
W. J. Allen, otherwise known as Capt. Lull, a St. Louis plain-clothes cop who passed by the
name of Wright, and an Osceola boy named Ed. Daniels, who was a deputy sheriff with an ambition
to shine as a sleuth, rode out to find Jim and Bob at the Springs.

The boys, advised of their coming by a negro servant, sought to convince them, as we had the
earlier posse, that they could not have had anything to do with the affair at Gad’s Hill. 
But Allen, remembering the recent fate of Whicher, drew his pistol and shot John in the neck.
John returned the fire and killed Daniels and took after Allen.  Side by side the horses galloped,
John firing at the detective till he fell from the saddle mortally wounded.  John turned to
ride back to where Jim was, when he toppled from his saddle and was dead in a few minutes.

The St. Louis detective had fled at the first fire, and lived to tell graphic stories of how
it all happened, although he was really too busy getting out to know anything about it.

22. AMNESTY BILL FAILS

The killing of Lull, Daniels and Whicher within a single week was undoubtedly exasperating
to the head of the Pinkerton agency, and had he not been personally embittered thereby he probably
would not have avenged it so terribly.

In the next January, 1875, a posse of Pinkerton men and others, guided by Daniel H. Asker,
a neighbor of the James boys, proceeded to their home near Kearney and threw a bomb into the
house where the family was seated. An eight-year-old half-brother of Frank and Jesse was killed,
their mother, Mrs. Samuels, had one arm torn off, and other members of the family were more
or less injured.  But Frank and Jesse were not taken.

There had been a feeling among many people in the state even before that these detectives were
unjustly pursuing some of the Confederate soldiers, and I have been told since that Gov. Silas
Woodson was on the eve of interfering with Pinkerton’s men when news came that two of them
had been killed in an encounter with John and Jim Younger.

At any rate the death of the innocent little Samuels boy made still more pronounced this feeling
against the operations of the detectives, and in favor of the members of the Confederate army
who had been outlawed by Fremont, Halleck, Ewing and the Drake constitution, ungenerously,
to say the least.

This feeling found definite expression shortly after the raid on the Samuels home in the introduction
of a bill in the Missouri legislature offering amnesty to the Younger and James brothers by
name, and others who had been outlawed with them by proclamation, from all their acts during
the war, and promising them a fair trial on any charge against them arising after the war.

The bill was beaten, Democrats and Confederate soldiers voting against it.

For myself, the only charge against me was the unwarranted one of the killing of young Judy
during the war, but the failure of the bill left us still under the ban of outlawry.

23. BELLE STARR

One of the richest mines for the romancers who have pretended to write the story of my life
was the fertile imagination of Belle Starr, who is now dead, peace to her ashes.

These fairy tales have told how the “Cherokee maiden fell in love with the dashing captain.”
As a matter of fact, Belle Starr was not a Cherokee. Her father was John Shirley, who during
the war had a hotel at Carthage, Mo.  In the spring of 1864, while I was in Texas, I visited
her father, who had a farm near Syene, in Dallas county.  Belle Shirley was then 14, and there
were two or three brothers smaller.

The next time I saw Belle Shirley was in 1868, in Bates county, Mo.  She was then the wife
of Jim Reed, who had been in my company during the war, and she was at the home of his mother.
This was about three months before the birth of her eldest child, Pearl Reed, afterward known
as Pearl Starr, after Belle’s second husband.

In 1871, while I was herding cattle in Texas, Jim Reed and his wife, with their two children,
came back to her people. 

A hearing of the pen had a descent to the same woman he married, but of the heir, the two of them
fell several times, they paid the pins are not only no interest, but they could be in all sorts
of abuse of prescription information relating to such things, and made themselves together with
their children away quite recently from the area. But he died and his wife of sudden death,
and his descendants, who now lives among us still suffers continuous paralysis of limbs.

So much the oldest records of the legend say about the donated by Verena Marriage blessing,
not especially mentioned, however, is that the same herstammt from the strength in there Collegiate
Church of flowing mineral spring. You go to it by vestry on multiple levels and draws down the
water with a bucket waiting drawing, shall be carried home by the bottle and used as detergent for skin
and eye evil, child Better Inside, it is particularly be useful, nor the stale is still blown
up on the cabbage field and destroyed the Vermin. From this circumstance appears to act subsequent
local legend that one of the communication E. Schmid of the candidate of Zurzach, died due to Heidelberg.

A
woman had given birth Zurzach, and sent her husband at night in the
town Klingnau over to fetch a Ammenfrau like it in the then village
Zurzach was no. The way to go for miles on the very wild, 700 F. Achen
high mountain.

On a narrow rock stairs climbs to the last height to Rothen cross, a single station built here
Pilgrimage to the Virgin Mary. This place is a dreaded haunted.
 “CAPTAIN DYKES”

The winter that the amnesty bill was before the Missouri legislature I spent in Florida, with
the exception of a short trip to Cuba.  I was the greater part of the time at Lake City.  I
sent Bob to school at William and Mary college, but the same proud spirit that caused him to
leave Dallas in 1872 impelled him to leave college when his fellow students began to connect
his uncommon name with that of the notorious Missouri outlaw, Cole Younger.  He rejoined me
in Florida.  I was “Mr. Dykes,” a sojourner from the north, and while I carried a pair of pistols
in my belt to guard against the appearance of any of Judy’s ilk, the people of Lake City never
knew it until one day when the village was threatened with a race riot.

A lot of the blacks there had been members of a negro regiment and all had arms.  My barber
was of a different school of darkies, and the Lake City blacks determined to run him out of
town.  He told me of the plan, and I did not take much stock in it until one morning when I
was being shaved I heard the plotters, over a bottle of whisky in an adjoining room, declaring
what they were going to do.  Soon after I left the shop I heard a pistol shot, and turning
around to see what was the matter, I saw my barber running toward me, while the other darkies
were scattering to their homes for their guns.  I walked up the street a little distance with
the barber, when some one called to me, and I saw that the lieutenant of this old company had
us covered by his gun.  I ran up to him and planting my pistol between his eyes, commanded
him to drop the gun, which the barber got in a jiffy.  The pistol shot in the shop had alarmed
the merchants, each of whom kept a gun in his store, and thereafter as the blacks came to the
rallying place in the public square with their guns we disarmed them quicker than it takes
to tell it, and they were locked up to cool off.

After that I was dubbed “Capt.” Dykes, by unanimous consent, and had to be more careful than
before lest the military title should attract to me the attention of some curious investigator
who would have overlooked entirely “Mr. Dykes.”

The disguised outlaw became during the remainder of his residence a leading and respected citizen.
When the election was held it was “Capt. Dykes” who was called upon to preserve order at the
polls, he, of course, having no interest as between the rival candidates, and with pistols
in easy reach he maintained perfect order during one of the most exciting elections Lake City
had ever had.

25. ELUDING THE POLICE

Bob and I had a close call with the St. Louis police in the fall of that year.  The bank at
Huntington, West Virginia, was robbed the first of September that year, and in the chase of
the robbers Thompson McDaniels, who had fought with us in the war, was shot and fatally hurt. And nevertheless, whether
it is up to the anniversary of the last chime, they will wait up to the anniversary again to
speak their opinions. And when they present nothing more, in spite of this, talk more. Stretch
them until they are on their last limb. Then, suggest to them that,
after the next chime of the cuckoo clock, they have five years left
to live.
This fact has made careless writers connect Brother Bob with some of my exploits, and in his
case it served to throw suspicion on me when in fact it was probably “Bud” or Bill McDaniels,
Thompson’s brother, about whom he was raving.  Bill was killed shortly before, escaping from
arrest for complicity in the Muncie train robbery.

Shortly after this Huntington affair Bob and I were coming north from Florida.  We had ridden
as far as Nashville, and sold our horses there, carrying the saddle pockets with us.  Shortly
before we reached St. Louis we met the morning papers, full of the Huntington robbery, and
the statement that the robbers Were headed for Missouri.  Knowing that we would be watched
for in St. Louis, I told Bob we would have to go through anyway.  There were some farmers’
families on the train from White county, Tennessee, who were moving to the big bend of the
Arkansas river, the men and goods having gone on ahead by freight.  We determined to get in
with these people and bluff it through.  As they always do at St. Louis when on the lookout,
a lot of detectives boarded the train at East St. Louis and came through, but I was busy showing
one of the small boys the river, and Bob had a little girl who was equally interested in the
strange city before her.  Gathering up a lot of the baggage of the women folks, we went through
the union depot.  Chief of Detectives McDonough was standing by the gate and I saw him as I
passed within a few feet of him, but he made no sign.  We took the women down town to the office
where they got their rebates on their tickets, and then we took them back to the depot and
left them, very grateful for our considerate attention, although, perhaps, we were under as
deep obligations to them as they were to us, if they had known all the facts.

                               Bob Younger

But I was determined to take no further chances, and told Bob to get in a hack that stood outside,
and if we were stopped I would get on top and drive.

As we told the driver to go to a certain hotel we allayed the suspicion of a policeman who
stood near and he made no effort to molest us.  When we got around a corner and out of sight
we paid the hackman and skipped out to Union, where we spent the night, and came up to Little
Blue, on the Missouri Pacific, the next day.

26. BEN BUTLER’S MONEY

There was no change in the situation in Missouri so far as the Younger brothers were concerned. As opposed to abolishing the pre-Christian German religious meals,
Christianity could instead adapt them to the function of the Church. Pope Gregory the Great, in communication
with the Anglo-Saxon Bishops, wrote "It is absolutely necessary that you permit this Gentile
celebration, but organise it under a different banner - one that is befitting to the Christian
message" (Beda Ven., Hist. Angl. Lib. 1, c. 30)


