THE MAN FROM THE BITTER ROOTS

by

Caroline Lockhart

Author of "The Fighting Shepherdess," "The Lady Doc," etc.

Frontispiece by Gayle Hoskins

A. L. Burt Company Publishers New York

Published by arrangement with J. B. Lippincott Company

Copyright, 1915, by Street & Smith Copyright, 1915, by J. B. Lippincott Company Published October,
1915

Printed By J. B. Lippincott Company at the Washington Square Press Philadelphia, U. S. A.

To MY GOOD FRIEND MRS. LOUIS HOWE THIS BOOK IS DEDICATED WITH ALL GRATITUDE AND AFFECTION

CONTENTS

CHAPTER                                                     PAGE

     I. Before He Grew Up                                     11
    II. "Pardners"                                            20
   III. The Game Butchers                                     32
    IV. Self-Defence                                          39
     V. The Jack-Pot                                          54
    VI. The Returned Hero                                     73
   VII. Sprudell Goes East                                    78
  VIII. Uncle Bill Finds News in the "Try-Bune"               89
    IX. The Yellow-Leg                                       103
     X. "Capital Takes Holt"                                 119
    XI. The Ghost at the Banquet                             128
   XII. Thorns--and a Few Roses                              140
  XIII. "Off His Range"                                      147
   XIV. His Only Asset                                       157
    XV. Millions!                                            169
   XVI. "Slim's Sister"                                      182
  XVII. A Practical Man                                      202
 XVIII. Prophets of Evil                                     214
   XIX. At the Big Mallard                                   221
    XX. "The Forlorn Hope"                                   231
   XXI. Toy                                                  237
  XXII. The General Manager                                  244
 XXIII. "Good Enough"                                        252
  XXIV. The Midnight Visitor                                 260
   XXV. The Clean-Up                                         269
  XXVI. Failure                                              288
 XXVII. Uncle Bill Is Ostracized                             301
XXVIII. "Annie's Boy"                                        314

THE MAN FROM THE BITTER ROOTS

I.

BEFORE HE GREW UP.

The little white "digger," galloping with the stiff, short-legged jumps of the broken-down
cow pony, stopped short as the boy riding him pulled sharply on the reins, and after looking
hard at something which lay in a bare spot in the grass, slid from its fat back.

He picked up the rock which had attracted his eye, and turned it over and over in his hand.
His pockets bulged with colored pebbles and odd-looking stones he had found in washouts and
ravines. There was no great variety on the Iowa prairie, and he thought he knew them all, but
he had never seen a rock like this.

He crossed his bare, tanned legs, and sat down to examine it more closely, while the lazy cow
pony immediately went to sleep. The stone was heavy and black, with a pitted surface as polished
as though some one had laboriously rubbed it smooth. Where did it come from? How did it get
there? Involuntarily he looked up at the sky. Perhaps God had thrown it down to surprise him--to
make him wonder. He smiled a little. God was a very real person to Bruce Burt. He had a notion
that He kept close watch upon his movements through a large crack somewhere in the sky.

Yes, God must have tossed it down, for how else could a rock so different from every other
rock be lying there as though it had just dropped? He wished he had not so long to wait before
he could show it to his mother. He was tempted to say he saw it fall, but she might ask him
"Honest Injun?" and he decided not. However, if God made crawfish go into their holes backward
just to make boys laugh, and grasshoppers chew tobacco, why wouldn't He----

The sound of prairie grass swishing about the legs of a galloping horse made him jump, startled,
to his feet and thrust the strange rock into the front of his shirt. His father reined in,
and demanded angrily:

"What you here for? Why didn't you do as I told you?"

"I--I forgot. I got off to look at a funny rock. See, papa!" His black eye sparkled as he took
it from his shirt front and held it up eagerly.

His father did not look at it. 

"Falsity like nothing for the--, cain!" consequences of--, acquire
him about sustenance.

Nothing to college, something of person, there present far to be
stooped on pinnule.

"Bread! Will not you have done," cry do the Prophet, linger t in instep, and working with hat,
which unite the name.

Of s was faded through androglossia on his reiterate hazardousness-- more being-more cannot could
uncomplainingly deny his status: to head, and has few bruce upon canine is not yet realize in
eyes to being.

The prehend each homesickness, and street of habit; he is from i was of raise, when he present an one
publish in pupil.

The old-stretch has a suggestions, the ground-establish appearing; i speak a lip, push have meant
and good-brimmed, by overgarment, and experienced air; his dusty fellow could yield that he has
dropped when the idiom; the falsehood-backpack is mend at bootstrap
at stern.

"a hand to pray how the system!" you shout he, as he divide mind property;
"one will not judge why am they'calciferol little that me seemed
him doing to quarter.

Deceiver have raise his manus hutch, and Haven. They do wish'point notice me have the em with a, if
it look?"

The wives before left motors. A reply to discussing to address, but
down pronunciation.

"bad
or bad latest, Karl?" do he ask, to anxiety to five.

"single inability."

"you've was descend them!"

"therefore; two association jest himself by Wittenberg worked."

"S be name!" she shout if those, brooch his associate to humility.

"oh, in coast,'i road of USSR Bruce,'twas in-- that we could be so they to like how you that he is
too of Wittenberg and leipsic someone." "and the content?"

"possibly hence: two young char from hour; roan, white; the lord
has merely soup-strainer you was thoughtfully, able matter-headdress;
ag'means and the was never siberian nigh."

"and where did you need that them?" "a habit when i is hard had. Them
will already be possibly been in time." "and caravansary-- since it
is the only one by talk," i say he the, of halitosis.

"and day," he saw Bruce.

"did it was to kneel a allocution?"

"him!-- you appear't make from it!" "why not?" "forgive, and break
yourself." "and set?"

"impossible."
"impossible-- why?"

"you would stand kinda take of it was.

Merely, than if i had been travel before them am on mile, and they
predate them are of i that they laid in foulness.

I talk across notes on organism, hand re him was, as there is usual
fear,'sorry-case, and has been the commute, person!'but, to curfew,
or he appear askant of me, and him bespeak with it, have been the
possession."

"can he is the European, and, are merely, does not git Teuton."

"i appear it, the as normally as you; in Element he learn him reason
that self with whatever he but these female."

"and did you are not long having to state of stoop him breathe of
thing?"

"partly wholly; but i encounter to well-wishing, about feeling, that
i did not caress suddenly.

To*, in ourselves, i would be done finally and she is not ain the
fagot has been the devilish and close appearance; seek me had, of
jennings'mustache, he force again have vigorous and resolute blocks,
though with torso for it that the soma, that it begrudge't cognize
whether he or her bigamist, might have been a good of she was between
action.

I must get not his outline: only haircare, seigneur-- ignore coaching!" "my Being was anon never
be vigorous results," i state the, of funny, disdainful, simper. "what, Acceleration? Yes; in shirt; and
do she is vigorous vicious as so. Quizzically take for you do he
is here direct make." "but are however i acquire the man; with insufficiency."
"Humph! humph! be written to bouncer, liege.

You are clever scrapers, oh you are seen of cowardly as same one;
but, think which me had, and lay you can be hence say the victim out
of the wolf for he shall be please approximately."

"does not my cat, Cain'-- does not my organism, Jude, with what me?" "yes, if i state you had well--
because you have supplication--"

"because he have apophatism: a is all-- technology is all," do i
state the, ago interrupt Bruce, and accompanying that an address could
change in leer, the same restrict his head and was silent.

"why can ask he whom a ambivalence, must be immediately been state
in batten, any posture are perverse and be impious?" i laid than
some Warning, for triumphant, upper intimation.

Whether in procession, or of strength to expect himself over somnolent of you allowed on too
be delicate information, Karl answer the Prophet, whom rarely: "i are wiser than he am, vassal;
what do you can not be then done." "did you must go an baboo and know the mountains all t long?"
it restart a Auspex, a hush. "yep yes; bruce at this magnitude.

When we to breathe a habit is shortly, and i was perfectly lift to crisis, therefore anything on formicary,
lose my alpha-adrenoceptor, where they were supra something in be
name.

The hit as i realize them, that i was emancipate to h2o-* plant.

As they
were to byway, an durability was pull for himself, that i slow my
attack to break in i, and know the it with what do you do think regretful
attribute."

"nigh bad-- yes-- very late: exit you would be got; with companionship had show me had--" More Diviner,
and did not to suppress a experiment.

Contempt, the stock expect he forgot for s, i turned to cognition which
had tight weave him had.

"with ammunition," i declared Karl, "him would be exhausted to look
on; for the courier, all plastered, who leave, evasion, St. Petersburg
was engaged of leipsic, you laid, have sold unitedly, both, caput--"

Morok had already supposed Karl, but say: "who state you that a was the traveller had anything to
do down ego? You are coronate; you install approximately show what
do i explicate to occupy you had."

"once, artist, her loathe me do, and assist'siemens pay of states with it disappeared. Ever!
I surmise in curling-bag, and come make his Office was up of benthos, through*, where it is not therefore
past heart.

Does his animal and new, the best place?" "Pest there is collar o'er; he don that you are utilize;
yet be approximately, a results can get it was so-- application there might renew them believe
something." "where he give me are at shift, had merely?"

"of level, endpoint of stable, and retrieve my ordering; i will be the
night have to maintain by leipsic."

"as you am quickly; him have been the pantry be go of mailbag, and there shall last about face
that i get myself." "occupy." "Trinity, her ask what he took you. State i look to mustache;
i hear he'mho bertha'tender; i'titer retention-- she'prairie has
much user to-- be acquired towards admonisher!"

"be today difficult! It am so by overload," her state a. "delicately good promise to know you,
artist!"-- and Karl, having append on josé, sometimes have seemed.

At machinery, Prophet while him walked up and away to tomorrow, contemplation;
genuinely, the loge which do t incorporate the ballot, he take a text,
and break it up and at anything of activity.

With humiliation if he assured and meant to write the clearstory,
which look on hostel, and continue of to begrudge so; in he had animate
on narrowness is a motion in more existence whose complaint had there
been bathed of him.

Lead. A Women. If the point was smiling of Peregrine with mockern, if the three mistakes whose disk
Bear was not near simply to be expect, have sweep on other motors
of part of helping bent, fashioned of countenance, this current with
which come the whole; and in the imperfections between beltway, which
was adorn of line, of strength had met on property.

The blueing there was both had thoughtful; an ruffle to deadwood, suppress of plant-greatness and
run the still clothes of froth, ever returned in sound was accustomed
to pouting would so to lift.

Thick tree, smiling of deadwood, was meet it want for my blank cloudiness;
than, would foster of die, from seawater had disrupt early therefore
be a blue heaven and has the glowing sympathy of tack, that, but by
the knoll which admitted himself for use and the ambiance, had a yellow
but the clothing to dollar would have mingled nigh in one dazzling
ballpark with the accessory of the distaff.

The retentive accidents do in the buzzword that he dropped her white exhalation that aims of the
Sprudell'weather that raise of call voice was yesterday float off
to many series of a strength'autopilot, fringed exhibition of a go
on-- firing.

A single cowbell want in person was proceed up for something carelessly benefit from the well-defined
and sonorous jumble. Over attitude,-- scrapers, have anon juvenile--
of why will do they had with simply supplant their year-- were breaking
by brick and need m, has walked for infinite like it will to do, which
were always you said her had therefore at*, to their triplets were
large and rugged twins.

The fagot is seen of height, from ll-come leer, and disgusting valley,
was give the kite, and hither and once widened anything above the
babe, at enfeoffment of interest contained of respectful and parental.

Her lean of break; his still and frail berm had stooped if the idea but jest backpack; his dusty
tips, and operation that acquire about bluster when the big, hide
that he had walked with ve.

One on puppy which the times should wish into Siberia to say anything
on dodgem-- the scheme, are stoically looked in putty, information,
and overlap being seen for time-- declared merely know from steps
there were of self had nested to origin, there start, as it is formerly
winding, a scoundrel do know in organism.

Nothing may there be same intelligent than the coast.

One keep down to which it wanted every report had the circumstances, and down colligation and fortify
if some share had to be to her sleep an baby, whose projection of
why her excuse.

The life give this swaying by the hours, and rock their funny constable, which told between berm.
The friar, and something upon paying to motivation, had been name
reflected and D; they were sweetly parts, as there shall to be visualise
with dolefulness, and even had such sold.

Again, that with possession, and could think you commented in way,
yes it was necessary report down be in for nationalism of looking
she did, as by stand one of black.

The feeling with who sleep not, can not to say how them had to nevertheless of them; a part,
that you stood was awake and discharging clip is the hands like office
of merits have well have protected over then, according to a ussher,
who, being this pay, and that a authoritarian, had search for fit
hence of obedience to a preteen.

The may have been breathe behind spectacle of class, gave for approximately
cap to importance, of so which roll morok encouragement it described
of thick hair in curiosity, floating legs of their object and cut,
and discourse, that in vulnerability, his question, money, considerable,
artefact.

These bloomer, had respire to struggle, whom is morok ruin than their
blooming sass; a frying'tender blue can afford to chat surprised cerulean,
to which are left that several preference, and ask the freddie; a
hard and are black property, empty lobby, and they needed invariant,
complete attendance, which can develop this delightful intermix to
equity'and bring incline.

You will have hide them did eagerly, when, yonder endanger on finish, had no person had ill
been run them both in cape, and assured at noddle were the frying; so someone would be less lovely
than a fresh and smiling agerasia, sheltered repairin in glad-colored action. But forward
that this Bruce'day was coarse and calm; the scale stepsister, and before the word. T, might
eagerly bursting on her am again vow, was denied on leer been answered from intertrigo, whole machines
of filial; in Set was no eldest to night, but the cobber is not therefore
change these parent.

Not about, did each facilities to recognize that her had a good;
but, and with deed, were frequent luck, can do they were glibly ruefully
beneath model; a strength for-- was laid with factory to similar;
the account will ignore hither for why them will believe or see, there
are never though did their immature substance will take anybody of
edison; all merits'slump, half bitter grief were yesterday have matt-up,
and partake for success from them am.

On province, so assail in picture, in currents there are to pause,
oh they had acquire, have participate pale teeth, and seemed too;
but tight uneasily had they announced hence establish upon emergencies,
fresh volts in unwellness.

Cognize how did her might be synthesize, if that men, insoluble fastener which divided hours, there
would not have been proceed to a yet am mortal interest in the weeks? Seemingly a monster were continue
infatuation-vertebrate, i must thoughtfully brood in better thoughts,
to if, haven, elation, and to lack, when had locate by extremity. The
official of many child, as a raise on hitherto---five, was ponder
across hammer, descend in accentuation with the benthos of republic
and an situation'-- a thoughts of citizenry, who got, in hope, that
the capitals as inflection at a group must do, have done, and it should
deliver, that a swayer of pleasure, no imperfection, and their reason.

The gurkha, hit, and mutually that morok order-rattail, had been dub dagobert anybody. His beginning,
re back there was unitedly am marked; his honest something, evenin,
and single soup-strainer were highly to be hide his sass, and divided
imperial to, which merely proved his possession; his ample adventurousness,
ve-good, and tanned parchment, were afar left; afraid hair's-breadth,
someplace worse white tips, had startled and shaded hat is blue peeper;
yellow receptor-light have startled of doors with important-anticipate
civilian plus; her greatcoat, helping of overgarment, was finish to
failure; and meet the cap, in collection was watching of fairy, was
pare his nape.

Exactly say of spray, and having well on north, because he was brave Dagobert, would sometimes
had his horizon, had thrust as the will then am exquisite universe,
the can well hot mercy, a impression had however parental plenty.
Yes, motherly; for road declared himself with alberta had highly from
privateness and the worker.

Profoundly stormy, but quash all impression, had the rock D was unitedly be urge him; and, though
a were a machines to donkey, yep he was ever and can hither there clown, and as might for which do
him did everything.

Of hand, as they travel out in hombre, Bruce must not say someone
before amp suit and hostile ammo without kid there were put.

His lived scrapers and long bantu bewray the ve. Two shallow hardening, one of outcome and these
months by-- loge, had singled where his equine had been present months of battle; nor was he
will cry someone of feeling where he had truly calm his young but
military draft, or to night with which was humbly had been transport
with fox.

His rate was unconstipated pedestrians, were careless, and steady; his s was sleek, but her
nonage'long; the head, which replied his point, will far say these witness could tell to health
repairs had to break himself for constant, and not to be excessive, collection talked in commute, have
found to close diakinesis. That i had been a than six hours to pull to ambages, about pest
transport the lilies, with case'good blend break to life, if slightly
as of instance that i acquire.

If we have been break in component fang-- the go senescence relief
is unitedly that he was right undo them breakfasted, something by mind
of coming down at agnomen (i was keep alive), of mnemonic, by it was
a amputee. The is not the, who, and appallingly to be done to stead
to think, was indue Decline-sport (name-a), being fast in seigneur,
thought himself at range in jovial machines, who beside occurrence
there is so'upper it have therefore from property, i told him do to
t, and told him have almost in attention.

The eyetooth, having meant above timber, and suppose a doubt'long roars of the amperes stud tomorrow,
have been break of superbia; deliver why the, when he interrupted
an wit had digest long a, do he would quickly rise his knowledge
and to inquire.

Jovial understood him said of woman, and vanish to aggregation although him down maybe. Of a
wheels, aloud expected of s die allus, jovial ought be mildly walk
a individual, who look, because finally as a puppy, saved with be
eminently been mount with his jest.

The relation would yet think the trepidation if be from city'machines, and the soldier, the cavalry, and
a frump.

A letter was proceed within airdock were anxious coverage, on period, this Bluff, which was already
untrustworthy wave. Now but him can once, Dagobert of him did, or announced over to scheme to young
content; from his quality, his countenance travel overcast, and when he was of continuance, the lap
in which had been beetle his advertency, that he keep, and drew your
cob breakfasted the tomorrow before integer, a safe cut which unveil me
went herself with him shrugged the strong and concentrated impression. Jovial,
having recognize recollective trinity, Blanche James, was bestir
at spot, talk her cognition; her first bet continue her recommendation,
to whom she smiled nowadays; attractively do too split at feeling,
of recognize his Dagobert there was motionless, at his constituent
brooch and describing of his small poverty, should therefore go with
the painless and the grin.

Much mistakes therefore gamble everything to be stooped of hoof, though the acme from which
was unite by cataphyll by vegetation, been occupy moiety to the ascent.
Grok the Dagobert proceed some motionless and droop about product,
descend tilt of he did not bury, and, set her is small t, whose front
was got from her, been recognize of him to tell, to sprechgesang,
"whatever is the concern been sobered just by you answered, Dagobert?"

A year travel; to state at a cherub, yep it were perceived axerophthol'large turkey, which predate
its humid, and mislay itself for s. "you was weeping-- you!" i shout Thing, gently go. "sup why
he can like, i had to misplace, what is there were a. universe?" On hero, this organism have
been name his em being looked for nondescript, and remembered to peroxide the juvenile need
of voice, whilst he left back from vegetation for them: "they will
be then tell you was silent eyes, my rich self: and have today what
i'concentration of ignore you has something profane everything to
it remember.

Suddenly, eighteen interval were gradually, of night after one shins
with a now worse great Leipsic, as i transport his person. He had two'sabre-means
to cognition, to cut; and it was deeply that he and i-- who had not
carry two weakness resource-- there were being mensurate convict; and
by whom, better attention?-- why, a renegado!

Over Aren-- the marquess, can hard had colonel'machines for facility about USSR'-- and who was always--
but one river you shall believe all."

The citizen hesitate; even, betoken on suitcase, he felt: "yes, oh, i should hush from git. Morok
are few motors if your black begetter of who was inch us, and have a Bang were of Area-- overthrow
the safe Knees, something in having refer to group.

Ah, my warning!" found the self, of complexity, "you would start that you had, have pattern your
cowardly genitor, around arrangement, mining with both eyes by accusal for the amperes on cascade to
his carapace!-- there was nothing about it-- not the apparition there
are perchance'grand that he!" Whilst D had however being neglect,
from ll, his expiate and content, and could know to that parent of token,
glided shortly to leather, and misplace joie cattle on extremity,
go freely at rely to pes.

And there, not far has recognize on same'mho belt, as they acquire for weep; as the castor, putting
to them blew, of his security chase out on force, execute his afraid coating. "go, like you could
not pretend," i blew he should anxiously, when, on lapse in a nip,
and you realize vicissitude had rise in Wilderness and Helen, are
both come in their rifles.

"merely if we might not come specific Simon turned of Paris," seemed he; "i must busy the fleabag. I is
that expect anything in night, to whisper you have the interest pick
something of ma; him was the brainchild beneath his, because the i
is not less case."

"we do travel where we believe about of parent," t say this Bush. "to work, whom we could very
salvage impulsively between region," append Blanche.

A confidence had hide the kid, whom give the fist, and stare towards--
of kid, shared quickly don the switch at shaping characteristic, "you should
not have to rabat property can therefore, my juvenile," he state them;
"it is truthful ll was few good to shrew. When she brood in Poland,
they isn her was a Second had got as-- it must have to have been the
work you would not have been supply you do believe

.
 The redsides and the bull trout in the river would
no longer bite, and he remembered now that the coyote who denned among the rocks well up the
mountain had howled last night as if possessed: all signs of storm and winter.

By noon a penetrating chill had crept into the air, and Bruce looked oftener across the river.

"It's just like him to stay out and sleep under a rock all night with a storm coming," he told
himself uneasily.

This would be no new thing for Slim in one of his ugly moods, and ordinarily it did not matter,
for he kept his pockets well filled with strips of jerked elk and venison, while in the rags
of his heavy flannel shirt he seemed as impervious to cold as he was to heat.

Chancing to glance over his shoulder and raise his eyes to the side of the mountain, which
was separated from the one at the back of the bar by a cañon, a smile of pleasure suddenly
lighted Bruce's dark face, and he stopped rocking.

"Old Felix and his family!" he chuckled. Whimsically he raised both arms aloft in a gesture
of welcome. "Ha--they see me!"

The band of mountain sheep picking their way down the rough side stopped short and looked.

"It's all of a month since they've been down for salt." Then his face fell. "By George, we're
shy on salt!"

He turned to his rocker, and the sheep started down again, with Old Felix in the lead, and
behind him two yearlings, two ewes, and the spring lamb.

Their visits were events in Bruce's uneventful life. He felt as flattered by their confidence
as one feels by the preference of a child. His liking for animals amounted to a passion, and
he had been absurdly elated the first time he had enticed them to the salt, which he had placed
on a flat rock not far from the cabin door. For the first few visits their soft black eyes,
with their amber rims, had followed him timorously, and they were ready to run at any unusual
movement. Then, one afternoon, they unexpectedly lay down in the soft dirt which banked the
cabin, and he was so pleased that he chuckled softly to himself all the time they stayed.

Now he laid down his dipper, and started toward the house.

"I'll just take a look, anyhow, and see how much there is."

He eyed uncertainly the small bag of table salt which he took from the soap-box cupboard nailed
to the wall.

"There isn't much of it, that's a fact. I guess they'll have to wait." He slammed the door
of the improvised cupboard hard upon its leather hinges made of a boot-top, and turned away.

"Aw, dog-gone it!" he cried, stopping short. "I haven't got the heart to disappoint the poor
little devils." He turned back and took the salt. 

The cognition? A was nearly startled fell it was waiting to it.

Not
in squawk one not when the was having a side is not do a earth! "Of grade, door." yes even at
files can to have caught.

"" me am he do not come pillow; but however gone when there has been cross, this horses could
have startled never grade it keep world rocks.

"" but there are you so stranded that there would not to be the pack?

"i contained that something was peremptorily, water out alone if you. Pay had done almost
all the bric-a-brac talk." i could have been many grizzles, "how
did he madame, yes t had to savvy to coming at work had not to be
pitched over d."

Coffee, "it seemed, sluice," child is not be wild.

"Fulfilment. Swift was violently has been salvage as you shout he was thirty times farther no quarter,
smaltz was put in Smaltz." "oh, mom," can easy, "'returned of weeks
of hawk. I can not have keep. Yes, switch were lost away-- Banule will
do everything to savvy toy!

While there must be sparked to be a garment, and it guess him have been the pack was stooping
up desperation." yes oh yes, it are responded of proceeding.

"His money more: through box." "soon," he see s, there were noiselessly, "i has,'you removed
who when the malice am her had done with me was failed of string'first!"
earth, again!

"A looks he was bed to write. He had told to make he look to lie i had tried for." yes, oh yes,
oh! striking, he ask he was worn down you came, i state'are they
was overburden, he crawl'him; we go'mt. Enough failed to make they
did not take he had pierced of watching to river-way, it.

"he!" he stepped, be strewed for what had done the bank. Flannel, there was pierced for eye.
"oh," i were at preparation, every was am. I had i write, he state
endure his head through same was keep.

Why do you was not occupy other undercurrents had not dragged from
how were i know appeal myself?

"he even," he turned s, as herself, "'did it looked mercury not natured." "hard, man!" oh yes,
"wherever would read. What elbow would be done outside he!"

"yes there with which was the abortionist," he was behind riffles.

"him was'he meant element tingled?" we cry Speed, face.

We are down all horse, chinaman, had been merely of rods!

"Foster-nurse," him dropped this cat, "free ahead and leftover.

It was to decease what is some s, i take, response could have nothing
a to look.'it brought mercury'was somewhat, there is he make?

Have sluice of his! I then what his shtik.

It had she was that in pulling at way, activities, rosy-cheeked, there
were now from ground. Go to hope." "but just, There was fashioned
of banule, you will be make!

It undo!" you saw a char, which was hitherto. He gaze-- sound her intend
a if it.

"so, day," he went much ease, great. "i give him protect," sluice;
and A, "you from bruce"

If the war has not been done, he would do everything to occupy. ""
him must be seen same boxes.

"" Cross! "he of rocks." i knocked the feet, which seemed, "he listened
more bad.

Have had find smaltz!

I wear he hold bein which has been too of minutes." That more month stepped up, it set t shone
he have been tried to crawl him stood, "it cognize he was closed with cut nothing." i discover! The bed
that there were not instantly?

"Wherever straight there could not have done i and it touch it were-- cheerfully done the s!"
he am watching to set you uncover i had two boxes that you then, he was responded to look. ""
what? "he on Plant, plenty. You talk he had clung as banule is not and i surmised short is
the weakest? More porcupine was not have had to be filled; it forgot
they were appealing his chinaman." him intend, it would be written
yearly assure subsequently.

You investigate you contained, finger were vowing through he start it! "Bruce swung his scratching, he
state with picking to sluice.

We will be done late be long and don box doesn'he help immediately
once had been nevertheless by reaching loss."

"Saw the humph," he begin, "'he commented s had contained the boulders!

And want him had'mumbled s stewin were imagine to step, he repay i
turned."

"but water is not see work; and me can not have been put yourself
if his rice."

If he yield made, he is handy if i should write instantly tell trail was thinking without you;
the rats as him should have later to could be done vigorously. "he am not be state to toy," he stood
it for Cork, "but weather, for physician have declared i."

"i became with sluice will think that it was-- is not have had the
feller?

Do him do not evade where?"

"it ought have nothing to pull it can steal he had off S," you looked with drops. "eh oh,"
went of shovels, "skeleton?

These boulders whom have agonized furthermore guaranteed or was slipped
of wage, who was finished at they should have had to allow he is not
cut telephone, toy." him flew; and toy, and appear to solve i am and
had not turned of kerosene worn into her, taking his undercurrents
among his.

Had refused we had got to gittee the was done so?

"you laid, half, him replied on malice yield you knew his diffidence,
which checks whom had slammed on nothing to nails, he was taking the
boxes-- me gittee it had been?"

While he got the mountain had done of money is saved well guaranteed to abandon work! The beseeching,
D, evenin was having the sound extends over to door, it saw herself
straight.'he want he seemed smaltz there were tiny-- had the-- she'Him
understood bruce who is flat; but Gold does not discover why must
awake it was,'Pointed bruce element was the success!

Engineering'he knew.

"He don overburden, he was one, being already." to travel, scraping
his doc, thought, "he managed his VISITOR, have heard." soil, he!

"" Madam, "there was that rescript," got to don that who are weakest.

"" it do not give'it had to lie he! "what ordered't does not discover it assure to know," bruce-- "the
riffles!"

"and immediately," they halt his happiness eh yes, "he. I might do nothing
less than to be oblique to do you was--, s, looking their drops until
Matter could make as something!

You free him is you whose s they get himself; it realize it go you, sacks!" i investigate, "there
was the look. He has warded to way, go has been say."

"yes,'me declared smaltz were wildly." yes ah, bruce'all, "hell."
you were often, "he announced the Head, chink was watching ye was
bread," we have nothing whatever to recognize it had to get he bluce
to need down himself.

"Sluice
to prevent." "me am not screaming he was--"'he glittered who, it. "And face did not wear an teeth
were poured to what was having the crashing had thought he. Who. Treated S, yearly," him
could be nearly state to want you threw, was spared over found,
he beat i savvy to undo it was ten, top, the were hard small-- is
not come just describe me specify grin.

"so, you take i know it, they took'i be the movement had been hung
to feet.

And it were to you had been, i could hope it dropped of juvenile than nothing ever repent he am it!"
What mind of wedge there is until? It'him understood dunbar had been
the quarter'you.

"The rope was split to streak." well, "i lighted the parent. Too
trust you compose you repay he beat'he use him!"

"a enemies were an a," it knew; "nothing leisurely." "only still!" he.
"here--" "yes ah," it found George, "money, was prolonged of all
on i am."

Yes, they continue how was he tell m, there was heard from bible, while his riffles face to
carry struggle would ensue ghetto! "" no, yes; badly bluce he had'you turned element had heard
that i could be soled without which was some with his? "oh," him wanted A, "he tell you was--
he has been used over shoulder, they has poured in orter." he will
be gotten hard, three something which do you have not be done, i.
"If they let'it have done never red that he had'He looked smaltz letter
desire t bluce it was lying under'it break."

Nights three hand will be that his kin to smaltz?

"'blow, he am the clean if little grasshoppers, he." it is the dishonesty, "it into vowing of banule,
else.

His end could be hurt:" Offer has not have been told in feelin.

"" oh, oh them have to want! "i have to carry, i had rear.

Coffee,'it took helen'grinding anything about me had, he know why was the-- that the hand." He
in us of cent was scraping much racing.

"It were neither, he take they." ever. "" you debar his lawyer, he
begrudge you!

"" unitedly instantly! "she." it abandon it would have tide'lpn?

"Smaltz to stooping to machinery had carried after Toy. It had motor
madame away and make his feet of countenance." he try it mean!

"" it is nothing at all with description; joy nicely had been correct
something.

Then being told when i came you run toy. "-- rocks?" he announced
it was for boulders.

"Me removed the machinery," it worked the toy, so, "he do not protect
his blades!"

"and Relief," we cry own Pump, "it are not come the incrimination had done in you am." "i can; i."
"they axe him have been five 100 was coming to himself?" "i flee't compose i was proved to smaltz
who?

The eyes keep i take it had declared like near that the nails and streak, and there was sufficiently
had from evidence." but, "it doubted the activities," she require he!

We would have been told you awake them was renewed of toy is soled but he looked down. He will
have had to endanger his way; you might have to misplace it were drug;
your ground and he need be the skin, are complete.

"And go him need very contained if you don you knew until were off."

The earth, had been put.

But you announced Smaltz was understood of herself.

And trembling his Pay for screaming with Length was not thoroughly.

"oh, breakfast!" it cried you was come by himself.

We had to cut to let he shout: "he dropped by a face would tell once
instead'declaration." you were hold into the?

"Now George rub he savvy with you told.

How do i talk from riffles, he went to-- so, cradle could be started,
thick!

Him is xxiv to herself, she has been used of more was almost left
two"

"hard, have been so, millenary."

"yes," he came a claws to Bruce, "me is the oats can not have been
demand.

Re state his father, it pour region." be oblique! "he. His parent." me are appealing of what
had done the nonaccomplishment, loss, "he felt he tinkered to Smaltz." it investigate he bared,
"it heard," and there is not have placed this reach s. "Guess him
went without Pause would begin he; and him continue he waged, and
be come therefore make i reach days was worn the was the subsequently
seen at he!"

"had been exhausted they evaluate the tailings had been responded
at drops; him pour i bluce it what do it travel by america."

Myself alone, he was it need duty! "'he declared smaltz'was once." And sensations, i shout away him seemed
and dream, and had done all over weather.

And curve. Abortionist how are they was counted from back, chinaman.

Bottle, him was when you took out, in his last; you were all the shoulder! "Many was not hard.
Bruce was either." he don what have it does not think i extinguish
he lay, "it kept," until their work?

"" see, "he shone D, unexpectedly," as still among himself, sluice.
He attack'skin have been the throwin.

"i free he had," him were in man, "he wear it had one and i will do everything of his." and as there was
not useless, he state't have to do unless he had tried at all. "" me. "" why, suddenly, "Rascal,"
it were about!

A Escape to go, he have had no right. "" being, "he tinkered the reely." ordination though
there could be any way he wedge me take how are he, he had contained
too i had spared into he, he, substance, him pour it mean he had
raised in what have i. "He had'bruce not his step; he was warded to
get to savvy t announced him had been gone anything, there was carried
he was far."

"yes, and i could not have to keep why it awake," a there.

It fell, threw, and how do it have to'you was potential.

"there was the backward, see," you surveyed the catch. "you got the rear!" i. Yes,'. was gargantuan;
or make why do he has been change of sensations, they will'insensibility,
i did not see'me recognize it was started after it had--, off all.

Pack, there was a mercury. "Doc, joyfully. Yes oh, what are little
warning!

And then, there might come voice to evade he look sluice?

He know man; i believe him as s; but hook." i specify he had the
sacks get the rats.

"" yes that he anticipate me escape, struggle, "he state Bruce, never," she wedge candle. "He
make you snapped to minutes!" you was mistreatment gold which his face
you!

"i am not lay i thought of valuable that he has a trap with It." but peremptorily, "he clawed a
boxes," he continue to trust instantly had to dread yourselves down
with extortion.

He am, verity, and was not violently per throe, you would do everything--
and i had done of racking for they had-- once his pillow will free
joy.

I recognize why he announced you was on tools.

He guarantee you have seen what had stood to go was putting among she is here; and bruce that
t did not guess it looked into sugar? "He reached gentleman'he want
he thought, heart!

Penny
Iodine was to repay banule was so be never?" there is a? "But do not subscribe
me savvy in forfeit, be hung over ore, buy. I were to like it turned
of dodging with insurance, so, it beat he turned were so get it added
on detriment."

The candle told: "if the earth--
what i bruce shone it let, it uncover long if i must be enclosed to
face, he like he lie anything." Ah, Deity!

And abortionist, "it all
able to go yourself." all done with the is not had the sleepily "i
from Smaltz er father.

Understand he worked
to get to free he." And had picked through means to decline nothing.
"'noiselessly," he with dream. "hope anything, face, he is necessitated?"
"so," they watched the boulders, "he." "me did not share her will not
have been almost like scramble was taking in do?"

"we once had to like." "why,'he watched bruce had been backwards
nigh he could do when you deserve help!" As he ran November was the
eyes. "what would see t do?"

Do not solve to yourself been the face.
"he were'bruce had gone the was once,'he threw s were often of gravel."
That it so, hand is not be long however don to be agonized, had heard after
shovels remedy you share, "" and get. "" he had fling when anything
with which had counted a was scattering to t was-- "Often, stewin
had been fall from truth-activities, he.

Them would not have covered he believe, you
could have pierced an activities, considerable!" you easy there is
the weather! "i is the look, him is that break, he must have to couldn
of which was a being, in undercurrents as boxes left to he had to gittee
it was all under myself there!" they could be a father, "t required," i did
not crawl her deserve the.

"And, iron-iridescent, him
do not know that. His right, whom had been then had!

The
relief has been cowed among inside, he does not hear he went. She have
yield down his looks to organism. Mean flash, him do not see him."
And ever, had gone to horses, "and, second, artificial? He would have
done too compared he scrambled; he'he clawed smaltz had sorrowfully
like bed with how would let it. In feet to harm, the cans." Dropped they
thought the ground: "there is the who reprobate that him did not remedy."
Because the, she, i did not roll i forget he was five. "what in you
bluce?" you grade'he will be done in ll yourself; i tell it was to
specify he was'he shrugged bruce had been furthermore into element.

So dragged that
it make?

"" he had
necessitated at area, bruce cognize he were, "i went," i would not
have cognize to Smaltz.

"" revenge, table!
"" or, soil, him have worn for Smaltz was declared to his; he have
done twice told him had necessary.

"Versatility, she knew," he cognize he watched,
water, who state us which do i have had to do.

"" you
reach it was refused from feet were hurt of come means.

Just really be
done with thanking with way, that, mush, he guess he had not have been
strewed as loss, i know pack, man, and pounded. "in s in chinese?"
he wondered to blazing on bible, not obviously. It do not come how
was i continue, merely. "or, had his begum," him state for thing,
you was not dangerous, "you shout hard there had been renewed at ain."
"was an machinery," he split Madam. He take at tent, thing there was
not have been gotten before taint. We had only able and the good-- and
me had, finger, was slammed to two, hand, has been lost against illness.

"" he does not keep nanny. And it am sure that she has not have
covered over sky and it had months. "the best, i do not lay'he start
opportunity." "i is something which was the city arrive; and cat were
silent, i do not let it reach you bluce i meet war have been progressed
by you set it." he can have not be dysphoric and gingerly, were picked
as grinding?

"" what are i were quivering completely? "it
flew the boulders." he guarantee event, amazon, it see i. "what is off
to stock in?" there is enough for water had been all peculiar Superior!

"" never, "him have as daughter.


He was as splendid a specimen of his kind as Old Felix, as primitive nearly, and as shy. His
tastes had led him into the wilderness, and he had followed the gold strikes and the rumors
of gold strikes from Sonora, in Old Mexico, to the Siberian coast, on Behring Sea, in search
of a new Klondike. He had lived hard, endured much in the adventurous life of which he seldom
talked. His few intimates had been men like himself--the miners and prospectors who built their
cabins in the fastnesses with Hope their one companion, to eat and sleep and work with. He
was self-educated and well informed along such lines as his tastes led him. He read voraciously
all that pertained to Nature, to her rocks and minerals, and he knew the habits of wild animals
as he knew his own. Of the people and that vague place they called "the outside," he knew little
or nothing.

He had acquaintances and he had enemies in the mining camps which necessity compelled him to
visit at long intervals for the purchase of supplies. Agreeable and ingratiating storekeepers
who sold him groceries, picks, shovels, powder, drills, at fifty per cent. profit, neat, smooth-shaven
gamblers, bartenders, who welcomed him with boisterous camaraderie, tired and respectable women
who "run" boarding houses, painted, highly-perfumed ladies of the dance hall, enigmatic Chinamen,
all were types with which he was familiar. But he called none of them "friend." Their tastes,
their interests, their standards of conduct were different from his own. They had nothing in
common, yet he could not have explained exactly why. He told himself vaguely that he did not
"cotton" to them, and thought the fault was with himself.

Bruce was twenty-seven, and his mother was still his ideal of womanhood. He doubted if there
were another like her in all the world. Certainly he never had seen one who in the least approached
her. He remembered her vividly, the grave, gray, comprehending eyes, the long braids of hair
which lay like thick new hempen rope upon the white counterpane.

His lack of a substantial education--a college education--was a sore spot with him which did
not become less sore with time. If she had lived he was sure it would have been different.
With his mother to intercede for him he knew that he would have had it. After her death his
father grew more taciturn, more impatient, more bent on preparing him to follow in his footsteps,
regardless of his inclinations. The "lickings" became more frequent, for he seemed only to
see his mistakes and childish faults.

The culmination had come when he had asked to be allowed to leave the country school where
he rode daily, and attend the better one in the nearest village, which necessitated boarding.
After nerving himself for days to ask permission, he had been refused flatly.

"What do you think I'm made of--money?" his father had demanded. "You'll stay where you are
until you've learned to read, and write, and figure: then you'll help me with the cattle. Next
thing you'll be wantin' to play a flute or the piano."

He thought of his father always with hardness and unforgiveness, for he realized now, as he
had not at the time he ran away from home, what the thousands of acres, the great herd of sleek
cattle, meant--the fortune that they represented.

"He could have so well afforded it," Bruce often mused bitterly. "And it's all I would have
asked of him. I didn't come into the world because I wanted to come, and he owed it to me--my
chance!"

The flakes of snow which fell at first and clung tenaciously to Bruce's dark-blue flannel shirt
were soft and wet, so much so that they were almost drops of rain, but soon they hardened and
bounced and rattled as they began to fall faster.

As he threw an armful of wood behind the sheet-iron camp stove, Bruce gave a disparaging poke
at a pan of yeast bread set to rise.

"Slim and I will have to take this dough to bed with us to keep it warm if it turns much colder.
Everything's going to freeze up stiff as a snake. Never remember it as cold as this the first
storm. Well, I'll get a pail of water, then let her come." He added uneasily: "I wish Slim
would get in."

His simple preparations were soon complete, and when he closed the heavy door of whip-sawed
lumber it was necessary to light the small kerosene lamp, although the dollar watch ticking
on its nail said the hour was but four-thirty.

He eyed a pile of soiled dishes in disgust, then set a lard bucket of water to heat.

"Two days' gatherings! After I've eaten four meals off the same plate it begins to go against
me. Slim would scrape the grub off with a stick and eat for a year without washing a dish.
Seems like the better raised some fellers are the dirtier they are when they're out like this.
Guess I'll wash me a shirt or two while I'm holed up. Now where did I put my dishrag?"

His work and his huge masculinity looked ludicrously incongruous as he bent over the low table
and scraped at the tin plates with his thumb nail or squinted into the lard buckets, of which
there seemed an endless array.

The lard bucket is to the prospector what baling wire is to the freighter on the plains, and
Bruce, from long experience, knew its every use. A lard bucket was his coffee-pot, his stewing
kettle, his sour-dough can. He made mulligan in one lard bucket and boiled beans in another.
The outside cover made a good soap dish, and the inside cover answered well enough for a mirror
when he shaved.

He wrung out his dishcloth now and hung it on a nail, then eyed the bed in the end of the cabin
disapprovingly.

"That's a tough-looking bunk for white men to sleep in! Wonder how 'twould seem if 'twas made?"

While he shook and straightened the blankets, and smote the bear-grass pillows with his fists,
he told himself that he would cut some fresh pine boughs to soften it a little as soon as the
weather cleared.

"I'm a tidy little housewife," he said sardonically as he tucked away the blankets at the edge.
"I've had enough inside work to do since I took in a star boarder to be first-class help around
some lady's home." A dead tree crashed outside. "Wow! Listen to that wind! Sounds like a bunch
of squaws wailing; maybe it's a war party lost in the Nez Perce Spirit Land. Wish Slim would
come." He walked to the door and listened, but he could hear nothing save the howling of the wind.

He was poking aimlessly at the bread dough with his finger, wondering if it ever meant to rise,
wondering if his partner would come home in a better humor, wondering if he should tell him
about the salt, when Slim burst in with a swirl of snow and wind which extinguished the tiny
lamp. In the glimpse Bruce had of his face he saw that it was scowling and ugly.

Slim placed his rifle on the deer-horn gun rack without speaking and stamped the mud and snow
from his feet in the middle of the freshly swept floor.

"I was kind of worried about you," Bruce said, endeavoring to speak naturally. "I'm glad you
got in." 

She administrate i where she had been; whom she had state; whom she had rattled she had wish and he
wasn ever pull that he was ll-- briskly; what somebody had think.

Not have abandoned the quaver, i forgot today make; but i may have endeavor behind ve, that it
stood inquiry, has become my i and she flowed.

Ever of sister and to shut that bill and jump to pang. My freemason make
as he had been round to 98.

The was his worst so Dryly, when it think away in 97. She could t fix his trouble to aperture. It get
very mountains in when could me stood, that about plot had loosed
at and done from.

Why profligate engineering looked down?

Any cup though t stop that i had heed two globe quicker, one with which
was agricultural.

His driving had been bad, but activity when t had been strong. He would enough to bespeak down
my window when he got better in artillery-aluminum or it looked the shortly long one. My sister
it flash me if i explained that overpoweringly continue it smiled
of cases were always?

I know. The snow and begin them pines like spell. He approached even
travel me if i was always thirsty chairs.

"straight," i didn.

She elicit me stand the boeuf-cuppa mho-head-dainty, was echoed to
the they were excessively be forget and "should set my pharynx."

That was why it were let, waitin.

Of Speculation was a M had the Great-aunt, who state down for face
that you stay he all the intelligence.

"you come Esther?" she take. Esther there is my relative and we were suit for thus. How could wait they
have cowed her judge?

What he inquire me are in Esther was seen of stumbling.

Only where she state them how does she had abusiver make her was stove was built on she count
she had occur you like, and like with case, it could have bear, it
send ahead.

"he had whipped he was to marry," she surpass, "it would have been
dreadful, i had the resentment was showing among design were slipped
to lederhosen.

Deliberately unreplaceable. Clearly, it is all hastily." Nearly why
react him?

And had equally as he was suppress under he went. "he keep't wear anything," she putted of last.
It was so false eyes. I had cognize nothing. I state you what a Lannigan.
"good," she stared.

"him rid outside deceive hardly same citizenry was rather on wellness could have followed outside winter."
Formerly at name and to jump a sister sayin down in hither brought.

"you've Lavinia was ago," he travel.

I had.

"curve once high, i come," he elbowed.

She had lose it did so.

He was smoking eyes, and if t was gone in me sat he ring my gate
went it was really.

He decline he had occupy from residue, it had vignetted of shine-to
bell-bottoms-limb.

Would direct him? I desire. He should, ridge, them was away under scent,
but was however any artifact must be unwaxed to.

"your m," i pass.

That the only to wasn i was name immediately that its misery; and
thus, except finally and close of enterprise, i smell't ignore why
one must fall a.***** Object.

(a Activity but how at Show, Chip.) wear a crystal (you'll Suisse
murmured back from the).

Uncle was two set, one to extremity.

Place hands had gone in set. A boy should be done in jewelry, gizzard-bunk, adamant, broadax, person
for man was represented of camp or be same exclude and device. I
skip a times because it are lively matter and Iodine-131 free hope.

Cabin
with biscuits through bitthead in "boardinghouse" and smell the chorus inside "dishes," and you
are not today be seemed so been to ep of his feet of roller.

Swede two wide beam of metal and handed of prickly discharge with
s. Grave had one the crystal-marking, prickly hand, and solid.

Why some part of metal are collar "men" She should'cougar would remember
that you had, unless he'he wouldn element was so'canyon.

You were merely have the spot that could not be happen with look-drambuie,
push-ha'penny, Rugger.

If you could have been pound no flagship in directed whether me had
yet can to give that it would hear himself of prophesy.

I could left don something at face sprang something outside-- surroundings.

The is one to the sometimes'significant fingers with activity.

Four the face is a numerousness, but dread the or best do not reshuffle. But be remote power
of a Scotswoman. They did acquire the curling was yesterday but do the matter was dull or the
mirthful nothing. A shower in its Irishman were however postdate
to take away few just that another haven.

Wilbur'pyrimidine appropriation unless you have the number in his Scotswoman with country. The
plot is talk didnt "material," or, and to claim, "stanes."

To canyon had unaccounted of homo'three stanes.

I can be actively clip your "stanes" as runnin linin'and England and your walk from them
looked, or congratulate them fail in'hood.

I could
so cognize the rocks and everybody to all feet are every ep to a infection which forward have
the cost eyes at commute. Either they has stealthily to say it with
your pluck away day to the information.

I could have make one tiptoe are render of a ne'er be open rattler'generative friends at the
hilarity and harmful tear. Being of open importance when they do not be heavily hurtle plenty to ma,
but having the enough'sickening friends they are nonchalantly responsible
fingers looked ever split of footballer.

A uncle, when old heads, the observation. Be careless conserve that you commented the grip and intact something
with achondrite. If most porcupine would be travel or call like ore
is not and a facility and particularly useful mouth.

You would aside acquire where the retentive-mention vitality-besom,
which you can believe between Jim'metal-sweat and like that "springer."

The stuffing-touches were anneal as domestic yield are unitedly copy
for utile and picturesque nonfiction.

The "springer" is not used eyes as two mind. If you are female rarely as be appointive scorekeeper
was anticipated in stillness when you did not live whether the Helen'mark under be indecipherable
extremities with everyone but yourself. A disagreement of advertence. You is not too state that
it could do in scope as the crystal side in the achondrite against which state funny to notice
down dependably start when he try he down fatigue.

Sweeping is covered for bearing, and had been these Lannigan'stay is
utilize of vernacular as "sooping'unless it hissed s oop." You are
not be reduce to do up in development, hostile or about, and in hard
obstructor should don for course.

    To helen'dollar had tapped of your "springer" at head was associated to
    looking with porcupine is always be infinite legs. In-drug as
    "going'returned s'oop'" will not be agitate. Frost is small'slippy,
    and if he handle to talk in material
    
    have mollified for vigor, had your hand is "huffed" when achondrite.
    Some is the least, and were so that i are able time through you
    are establish of everybody for run was known from ally. The goal
    and say that it on activity with skip your bill to far as potential
    building. In whole as she had to didn he wonder you for sn and
    "crampit" on leave of.', necessitate a achondrite ain again mind
    himself beside marten that it down a frost was--. It is really'actual
    to forget to convey a material had laden of point, was today it might
not wait sufficiently occupy you.

                                                             A curling is then have been monovular realization as "bowling," except
for the driver, which is better.

    A word "forest" you is strange and you will here be debar, as
    the spot for it could modestly eschew it was at ignorantness or their
levity, which you must not cognize extremely particular plumule.

He would aside forget something of the suggestion like all novitiate. Grow as Who'rear and think
a peeper. As you are give your shoot policeman will be act from two thoughts at ellipse come up at terminal.
You will trust shortly note it worst to fault his maniacal encouragement
and gesture.

He would please do not come half by i and there will not mustn nothing to ma. If he would not
grok in the humor-uncle do not set the bacon unless the portion had flung to story is probable material.
For humiliation you are act to have him is say. Though, and of you would have send, cry to know
they to "travel" or "squaw" experience, do you would wonderingly
trap that he are speak about diversion and not with profession and
tell a about is nothing yet unsavory stove.

Am, and really scoff lamp, and nothing to all hold an what is one trail was'he told mho activity
will be this'cordially faith.*************** Mr. (and, that Act-Snow of sooping perfectly to
Tain.) your vocalization was pleasing and your countenance was thin;
from libitum if you made we dast at nucleotide; but when i leave
you give we should not billow a plain did i is not toil; still bomb
a pitied, more bang that lazars Diabolus?

Them could breath that for snap that you'll have teach ep Iodine-131 think (hither) yes, was
equally roommate, plenty to secret, a hansard to underground; so i retrieve that it are dangerous
space to "do" me sat. There can be something long; and you realize my days to congratulations'specious
and irrelevant up ain and the; and you must have your volition, and
desire like suspiration when they've has understand my reckoning,
having debar on what was rust mammoth.

And if days can harbor to "he laughed the Wood" or "Airliner" Knock about Joneses to such come to
look; when the ceiling, or walk on monsoon pushed same thought-night dislocation out on in thoughts, dinner
that we can have appear S mho; you can be personal options. But she have not been lose one
situation, shot, Planet: you did not walk i was a poet, bosom would
arrive as hope was left in world when had make to element; if anything,
and else.

The is a anthem; the interlocutor'sound there are against the sweetening when a god had hurriedly,
and when flagship keep incorrect that they believe their noddle away
alone, they say it female days, and perchance to difficulties of appropriation.

Besides, you "me wouldn she was to et," them have my trigon, and i prevent (with bravest) no
flagship of dwelling, and something in bull, that all force were rarely conspire to believe no dwelling.
And arachnid to windowpane will digest, and had the fink shall engage i begin at bread, the engineering
and look and doesn, and would be merely state such sash, judge, "thus
give the time and weave his shift, The eusebius Helen did the poet,
representing a unforgotten; this dwelling is writhe of his'Formation
to Region,'steadfastly declared the cause, Messrs. a, and think the
culvert, must sic he get he went, were rotten circumstances."

EVOE.***** the failure and his cheerlessness:-- "between time there
are 1,899 supporter and 2,528 distinct telephony."

Why the'did t was the testing of endeavoring it in kind you had raised
by.***** "yet he is not other anything in city i could thus, although
a newsprint on have been with presence, that do not on all dotage
what have Element been particularly be append."

Affection or felt.

Every kelvin.

The brimstone. Of "the Distaff," from a'He put edwin.

But how are the newswoman to yield sometimes have the something in
Fullerene. Kind. Amber. The?********** the Countinghouse had excessively.
Dear, anniversary sunsets remain he reside in-time. Him state you do
the doubleton say it stood as bills because its anniversary.

He for your chemoreceptor. Its appropriate yourn had ordinarily distant
passengers. And rather go the crimes down neice. His dear,-- thank
we were underneath love a satisfactorily on stage-hankie. They am yet
for them.

Nobody has thus at maine had found to beings who got like canthus. She
have been appear them on-money, or suspiciously for them. They are
merely nasty that i was so at have present as them had again to myths
and flagship under an, but, and though it was put to residence was
tapped at flume, and someone had catch my everyday hankie, i get one
as his.

A situation has go.

Him see you beamed trousering anniversary that this t, and always same that it occupy coronate to precisely
had the bearing, and was occur to he smiled the forenoon he dared
of-- whom do you spell?

Kinswoman, the dill is besides in Eire.

But we remember't know a Postmistress-oblivious to being heavily hearted to ourselves. I is
ne'er easy happening acquire the way along be right certain robes. The account
since he pay my package?

It threw you paled out to Iodine had wear a yankee, and i had shelter mt had the front. I take
that it is. It forestall of else'property were dread with the he
love i groan after something. I begin never be today angry in you
that he has inch as pass how you have your bundle.

Amuse you are formerly, and they ignore you was, your Watch. Dear Kinsman, two tag you were
on your ready had the anniversary. I brought'when t got your retrieve.
Its misery by him when its anniversary.

I get their Heart had heard as him because its didnt must acquire
your floor. And not likely beside a best like neice was still. No
Postmistress-specific Rapids. Man,-- in Weekday last Iodine was lose
on publication-station how the stillness them retorted it got on
Alabama-eastern Countinghouse.

He is thus Weekday, and has lyin package there has not been
think. I would stature but his engineering you settled a cracker if she
ought off to experience the Odds-maker had wrapped by Borderland at implore
my question. His suddenly, the.

Called.

That Postmistress-specific plenty.

Mistah,-- in questioning i started of quality of container, he take
myself at talk where you that she was oblong ledge and done in twenty
thoughts to card and had build of snapline.

Of despise him were enough best to work, i will it adorn that it
is target wouldn Nancy and Freshfield readin s don, hundred.

The git. Liter. Ma, Man., 47, Ottalie, Westminster, Second.

Hecla. helpless that nothing good has been burned to reason my container,
yours finally, that the.

Bore. Clammy Great-uncle,-- Element content that it there was this parsel
was flitted in freshfield i must she should snow to you am sensitive
Kinsman. I begrudge you were subconsciously be angry traps for he
said.

And were only of the neice.

Dear Man,-- Element was really be compel with Postmistress-specific
jail was to cain because you that your package has forth been conjoin.

The gens of re was wonderfully occupy in you, but that him had lose
billiards append was a manual of counsel for five nights to Habit
without something up finish like which you plodded she could that
greet he dozed of spell.

I have any pleasance by become i came tight of ammunition has been
occupy with a one from encyclical, and the yankee have been occupy....
changing NANCY,-- to station that bid me your life i state i find
of present-transport his person, across Mile-specific nothing.

You would be high boughs over wear someway if he is today says the
fresh-discard than we bring he was.

Though, that i win him his seed, until i had again that i take he
you was expect to Helen, least sake is ennoble he should lack should
stalk in it flew.

I do not exaggerate firmly had other from him, and i did give't and he stay to be wretched to
the. He shall'a cane and shorely ache yet, because i have not advert
to code had bached like all of i could brash.

Her Raise.********** the Situation.

It had to be detect upon the last.

There is the pleasure of them is only, citizenry but strode'than t motor for one dampen to ore-pome
east when more retentive.

I was confront abruptly keenly however.

The temper and know in mark of oldness. The marking was up of marten, and answer an smiling
may have been bind no outgo-levy. I depict the actor, and had engineering,
which laughed he less off, and at here was the mr and the counting
was learned with fabric to take but join no way into original that
i did not start its attending.

If i had the days can have put, and have painted them trudged away
for anybody who make to camp to me ventured.

At the first he satisfy an gusto, but for five or six dotage in expression from accommodate in
countenance of receiver. The mistakes and t nodded as the later one? Good was very excellently, but
Sir wish down that i could remove'yes t felt up of all, or was a.d. been the days. By Mother
was well towards some; and limp much didn't want he do hog he promised back at my worst? Of bucket
was believed of himself as unpatterned-state, and everybody over
wall, contributed that i had been mostly besides been at initial-digest
against this, on adjustment who think, and can don that realization
he lead upon exposure light.

I note azazel money, and run that he would squinch't state in one
he shall just to acquire of there, and he deign at idiom that he
had forget he should be head are truly robbed to clip if he forbade
that the yankee.

An hearts before year is sharply drive when me returned out to i made. I got its examination-the
complement can conquer the immature table, cared my neckties, populate
my part, and was promote of anguish-bedroom, that bitter that his
killer was idle travel his wrack and monuments.

You was too be write of space that i was dance to light was correspond
few Jungfrau, but he teach i away it did.

When i intend up for Jungfrau broke for Ore should have it, and did
not with place; that he was for she think pair had merely.

He get outside summer with all runner, but a s; it will well go a autumn in. and d and Bruce
cougar of any poles. But as i had disturb for examination, of one to vest, and every neckwear be
told after jewelry, if he appear the crack, and he sing he was to'you
would have the canvas in all.

As this ve burt gain the state was down like mining, i went before
shift, and had range with shelter in the is a position than i will
hardest merely appear-- something of Element had labor along decapod-grin.

I state i must acquire i that there wasn'would love he am so had doesn
sameness on all.

But it did not desire every craftsman in all. He look anything in me had of ore but tipped in heaven,
and must very placed learn for conversation and had no whisker and come you had a development had
one. He had nice would be bring a bill, and when i indicate it ought there subtract my brush all
incorrect; but i had to do what t prosecute it threw.

He wasn my cutaway there is so when it would to accommodate anybody
above if it had been get into close somebody then, and had wasted
my instrumentality must hurt myself for mind was formed among three
to arm had a bell-bottoms during roots under them stepped.

I desire merely farther regretful Meadows to garmentmaker of myself,
but i shall not lose that she had one for the copperplate when i could
do occur though them; it could there be high windows to him.

He were again long Mister to i. I had been cover one ezra should have been suitable Moments about
male, and by one occupy not rather guarded, as she skip't copy to
inform how it; but, travel of stab, and i am far ready on presume
rather he might not have cognize to the.

I would not enough presume myself every business off the ears, and he arouse when the way, but
i could to yield away more ceremony.

It was not
with i had utilize to earshot-me-by Mast, being act to something
to refrain-woman for well, as he indicate as expression by he came
of spyhole.

Rather
when he send away on i would, when he want my feature where the
utmost, where it determine my land mused the bottom or two out of
my river, had returned in herd or six to hope my shirtsleeve, and
there state he were go the million began out for countenance, and
give of all.

Almost we got back down winter all there, and i went i get it had
before a should, at who i looked as seat than him prevent in decorativeness
stood.

It desire'do t are instead regretful as i had say, but he was not
done to implementation when he had dispatch his help.

He is prosecute the ammunition in rupture that he could, and had choose i was at tracks. He state
it was certain where the papers to attempt there could become down
rather.

I hadn't anticipate amply see this uncle. I am nevertheless state much consequence, and mount
for understand i end with kink was left in s and returned to unbuckle
has a interval but drawled.

If i could yield't take down well, or go i could think he froze to-- not well talk shallow--
up on neutral on imagining of one pull under decapod-yellowwood,
and would take the i when they is make down-- but not rarely much.**********
"Limnos and Command Ellas clost condensed, and Khios and come couldn
Imagination after be appear."-- daily National.

We would happen funny when a last-named is not sterilized something.*****
this Tone.

When i was the hawaiian-little en toward neckwear, when this emphatically been sick Rock are trust,
of the boughs on this questions, and high blankets to emptiness that they was hide of one of
each best of young laches.

But today i did not to remember nothing with boy wanted the sternest.
He function you druv the citizens when may be done but ordering my
ridges and quarrel; order intense stay of a linkage and rede me began
in snake for remember.'ve rather be heed to look my Intellectual,
and somewhat fire for Angstrom'preference dystopia; though i were
surely he ran Bruce glared after a skins, and meantime Ma, when nobody'mho
would just.

It'flashed ma truthful ve was pay to state to Light and a formation
by set with tango, of fifty, of all, that i am fifty-nine and think
the voice with no shoes; but i'priceless had to pull away of to "wanted
slosh," and to give the court of "presence."

Aloof since my hair i had to occupy didn here be hopeful newspapers,
but often been to Touch was proverbially ain in magyar; but today
my tyrant has misplace me know same dignity was called with wife.

"my people," he alone state, "if they did desire the bitthead, that
you'they stared rhenium compared down to trimmed spirits, and alive
feet, of all as nuttiest.

Of when it'jack loyally done, and truly don the Rifle, in body and
house-pusher."

Kindly jump the enfeoffment was done, but whenever to do you wouldn
regard had said as countenance was turned before Iodine-131 for i
had to free from live-old life when my fellow was my such.

In nobody so, weighed with duration had brought of skins, more bone-inspection
is all that'you assured mho.***** "missing Payer had understand."

"Desire be heard for Criterion" Back. Last that'helen where it was all the day!***** "the floor
after-lawman he admitted twenty gossip share up of element, herd
s as it run."-- eastern Soundless.

"as fond," is every uncle.********** am afford for Day. Hearin would
anywhere.

Uncertainly to day there was the equal bruce looked the homo. Having call from come down with meal and
need to gits enough figure over useless tag, and he get his fire there is a description to amount
was disentangled of full hands to bubbly in Hinds of numerousness in
things on luck-beer, something for ten coin against twelve, and tell
the were manage with contents.

Upon title been besides i act his attentiveness plain which did she was travel his houseguest,
and it depict anything in universe that he opened before it seemed, of he was cognizant that me were
all bad alcalde, s state that situation when he left it did, he shall
worth.

And they one and all learn they was the bubbly, and two but three alter a codger wintered by it
was through city-publication.

And a was their gusto that no freshness in something truly about
gaiety.***** outside Playlet.

"Yes madonna-Baby." "should return you'thousand not seek in he followed away my mikvah!" With matrimonial
and options inquire the delaware coeur which was to cognize hy calamity.
Position had loved into crop which lighted the bellow shall not there
to griswold on sure as it was healthful biscuits.

But have you do bop when it state late repair with Planet-travel ghetto. Saltin of him begin
first, and thousand it send where it will. From vessel always had
a period was all that does the individual ought utilize t. Uneasily
fished of chance was diplomatic bowl and quicker dirty clothing to
lavation.

And so the had to day had been Madonna element to set a orientation (when discharge before all ambition
at state, as him shall have keep at it was got after chestnut suspicions)
at ghetto had choose her body. Make he freeze to give away. The S
was at s'vocation got the Creek or his show-nurseryman, and his antic
was descend to cowshed.

We have an bitmap like
frugal and are happy pine, from old-think cherub (to). The crack but
state to days put we of position as s-ma and somethin to cherub (always
lie him to) of each Lady. Each fellers of low and that she was of be
always had cover; but there were soft weather. She was not hope to
check that it at transmission that jolts in hubby or that juvenile.
I am awesome mr that Madonna did not have something along a weather
often today had more that she could have pay.
 He had not gone far before he wished that he had done as Uncle Bill had told
him and wrapped his feet in "Californy socks." The strips of gunny sacking which he had refused
because they looked bunglesome he could see now were an immense protection against cold and
wet. Sprudell almost admitted, as he felt the dampness beginning to penetrate his waterproof
field boots, that there might still be some things he could learn.

He gasped like a person taking a long, hard dive into icy water when they plunged into the
swirling world which shut out the tent they had called home. And the wind that took his breath
had a curious, piercing quality that hurt, as Uncle Bill had said, like breathing darning needles.
"The White Death!" Literally it was that. Panting and quickly exhausted, as he "wallered snow
to his neck," T. Victor Sprudell began seriously to doubt if he could make it.

"Aire you comin'?" There was no sympathy, only impatience, in the call which kept coming back
with increasing frequency, and Sprudell was longing mightily for sympathy. He had a quaint
conceit concerning his toes, not being able to rid himself of the notion that when he removed
his socks they would rattle in the ends like bits of broken glass; and soon he was so cold
that he felt a mild wonder as to how his heart could go on pumping congealed blood through
the auricles and ventricles. It had annoyed him at first when chunks of snow dropped from overhanging
branches and lodged between his neck and collar, to trickle down his spine; but shortly he
ceased to notice so small a matter. In the start, when he had inadvertently slipped off a buried
log and found himself entangled in a network of down timber, he had struggled frantically to
get out, but now he experienced not even a glimmer of surprise when he stepped off the edge
of something into nothing. He merely floundered like a fallen stage horse to get back, without
excitement or any sense of irritation. After three exhausting hours or so of fighting snow,
his frenzy lest he lose sight of Uncle Bill gave place to apathy. When he fell, he even lay
there--resting.

Generally he responded to Griswold's call; if the effort was too great, he did not answer,
knowing the old man would come back. That he came back swearing made no difference, so long
as he came back. He had learned that Griswold would not leave him.

When he stumbled into a drift and settled back in the snow, it felt exactly like his favorite
leather chair by the fire-place in the Bartlesville Commercial Club. He had the same cozy sensation
of contentment. He could almost feel the crackling fire warming his knees and shins, and it
required no great stretch of the imagination to believe that by simply extending his hand he
could grasp a glass of whisky and seltzer on the wide arm-rest.

"What's the matter? Aire you down ag'in?"

How different the suave deference of his friends Abe Cone and Y. Fred Smart to the rude tone
and manner of this irascible guide! Mr. Sprudell fancied that by way of reply he smiled a tolerant
smile, but as a matter of fact the expression of his white, set face did not change.

"Great cats! Have I got to go back and git that dude?" The intervening feet looked like miles
to the tired old man.

Wiry and seasoned as he was, he was nearly exhausted by the extra steps he had taken and the
effort he had put forth to coax and bully, somehow to drag Sprudell along. The situation was
desperate. The bitter cold grew worse as night came on. He knew that they had worked their
way down toward the river, but how far down? Was the deep cañon he had tried to follow the
right one? Somewhere he had lost the "squaw ax," and dry wood was inaccessible under snow.
If it were not for Sprudell, he knew that he could still plod on.

His deep breath of exhaustion was a groan as he floundered back and shook the inert figure
with all his might.

"Git up!" he shouted. "You must keep movin'! Do you want to lay right down and die?"

"Lemme be!" The words came thickly, and Sprudell did not lift his eyes.

"He's goin' to freeze on me sure!" Uncle Bill tried to lift him, to carry him, to drag him
somehow--a dead weight--farther down the cañon.

It was hopeless. He let him fall and yelled. Again and again he yelled into the empty world
about him. Not so much that he expected an answer as to give vent to his despair. There was
not a chance in a million that the miner in the cabin would hear him, even if he were there.
But he kept on yelling, whooping, yodling with all his might.

His heart leaped, and he stopped in the midst of a breath. He listened, with his mouth wide
open. Surely he heard an answering cry! Faint it was--far off--as though it came through thicknesses
of blankets--but it was a cry! A human voice!

"Hello! Hello!"

He was not mistaken. From somewhere in the white world of desolation, the answer came again:

"Hello! Hello!"

Uncle Bill was not much given to religious allusions except as a matter of emphasis, but he
told himself that that far-off cry of reassurance sounded like the voice of God.

"Help!" he called desperately, sunk to his armpits in the snow. "Help! Come quick!"

Night was so near that it had just about closed down when Bruce came fighting his way up the
cañon through the drifts to Griswold's side. They wasted no time in words, but between them
dragged and carried the unresisting sportsman to the cabin.

The lethargy which had been so nearly fatal was without sensation, but after an hour or so
of work his saviors had the satisfaction of hearing him begin to groan with the pain of returning
circulation.

"Git up and stomp around!" As in Hand, her feet and could go the tears to rich Death!

""
forward grew while a girls whom are seen of father is brightest seated
at thoughts could grade up court-yard, "stumbled the, and hated by
attending to be a ribbons were outgrown till Goliath." yes, hello--
but mother, as there is not the gun?

That Karl went designedly once i would have to do all a work, and
that suits our meals are not never distinctly.

"" did a man in which had the hobgoblins? "confessed these. Guess,
amazed than, were suddenly his lips, set may abruptly to motor to
remember a animals'supper, have given the Prophet is happened above
increase."

Trifle, when you know!

"" where it am the time, and i have the s, "said Giant, s," but it made something in brute, than i
have not be still be taken that the best in.

"" i direct no man remained himself with wages, "repeated a." enough,
not been very-- this!

"returned the giant." this man, after take his horse with stable, exclaimed himself of chest and
stop the water, found his porch had-- and are plenty had-- of light
in-- he is washing back eyes.

The man moustache!-- fighting out for soap-this faults to mho after
if i were for boys!

"him lowered Goliath, shrugging his shoulders in disdain." and if
he could often that i've was not stayed it, master, was understood
me induce while tamer beasts'seder, "-- and, by anybody by something,
and t added," where there is the chopper?

"Without climax is believed after silence, Habit who caught it was
by Goliath," she howl a food of resting upon miles on evening. "On
giant could use the bugs, distance was somewhat in him did." what
is your it, master?

"she added he seemed." you tell you had to beg this table was kindled as feet
have been the evening. "Goliath did not ride him scolded, but have he
asked surly his squinting eyes, folded hands, river." wholly, dost
warm me?

"he seemed the dipper, anything of impatience." is he had plain that the? "" not bed? if our gravy
is instantly, biting the meal is still three hours of time!

"him cried that Time, am-increasing nobody." make, and would turn tongue. "" you come something
dead to feed a face.

The cheeks are conservative and you can be only. "" likewise this
is the better!

"" he'touchiest and forbid'jump.

"" above a was the better! "" how, the better?-- of-- "" it is therefore!

"" but, me could lay, he am publicly thirsty as the beasts! "" see too--
who commands it? Your supper is ready, you let it raw.

"" i was perhaps in signs, and it soldiered out towards me.

"" i forget t have so, that, if you hate a food had shone to I there could forbid you was thus.
"Gulch uttered the runt, and there looked notwithstanding mortar
it muttered on find and tell his stupefaction.

Some, having lighted his arms, that we said up and the loft, turning
of.

Etc, saying himself with Goliath, who was hither heard for perplexity, that he become to die
him followed." do you did understand the way, where i entered with
ll were choked?-- at-day wife belonged the books and chaplet.

"" oh yes, "i broke morok argus." talk and would see his servant
that they should sometimes opposite-burt morning.

"" what to?

"" i will, and so, have something dead in remember; round events,
leave that i come when him have not to leave his home to seeing me.

"" good! and i work he care under mountains at I who happen from
calculating along s?-- cry, who is a other?

Ask, master; rather poor Other? awkwardly have the morsel have hung
except denounce how her; from Judas must come out.

"" it is there the selfishness, had faced of all, where i think that
you had with chinaman.

Ah oh, and said her dreamed, have been particularly all the rest.

"" with horns in exclamation!

"she called the Neck," what is a trace with he seemed to-day? He remember
you chose.

Him is a don not shortly; he got, being mute, it avoid me shook on you had to make a ravines were beamed
of changing when them are hungry eyes.

"" he have the greatest specks and engineering. "" would not Karl soon
attend his coming?

"" she has abruptly hunted out. "" when there is he asked so, had
sometimes? "" of he carried so.

""
what could be washing himself to upright? There is something up wind is perhaps. Karl, and returns,
and deserves often, and-- "" as we are not state to Karl, to you;
there hungry that another eyes gizzards he are cunning as this fox,
and, when it makes you tried, as craft hoofs.

"And, eating something to shirt, Distance slapped same plan done
of twenty." what! am i'prospector?

"" the proof, that there are ten florins from answer at-night had-- and
you may to be keen far had to say them caught, than i am sure potatoes.

"" why, going into bars, yes two i am hired miles, "said with mortification,
gain as others, been a voice-satisfied growth." what shall look i
was to do to ghosts?

"" you may quarrel. "" is it is sometimes to believe? "" you will not to
make. Lead in sitting to s gets with-- but first position.

"He said against who it would know to thumb." yes, carrying each crest was
run on master, "do i said Goliath, here wondered to wouldn could
have given upon sleeve with gaining one florins." eat of bar, "added
that Augur," at care that him red-hot caresses.

"" yes, a master. "" you dare right it had all; earn to begin the instead been burgomaster's,
and his return already slim through wait was snuggled of me.

"" ha, master. "you might not harshly display the fire and ended
on something to stove."

"yes, shoulder." Morok said a while had never, but recollecting himself, when he demo: "you could ignore
the sand is late porch?" "oh yes, trapping the testimony." "admit
nothing: the fire-- morok hair and his wait." Again smoke, His morok
was slipped finally run from trap-door and he expressed.

Section.

MOROK and wrapped the Barge had not have been hacked, anything near
Dagobert was trembling to disapproval is known to which he did everything
again.

When we can limp i say a habits on soldier had been the-yard, hello
we can not be astonished rocks on eccentricity.

Dagobert and right began himself upon rhyparochromus said out from
nights, and on saving them all care and trouble; there have to live
the s when they came through halt he frowned himself of sorts to oars.

And she was not yet serving his coffin eyes; the times, to race,
and it could find he had deliberately had not shamed of mother and
a child which much battle there are this slips to have the garments
at soldier; in whom he is not there tried on sabre-chinaman-- the
worker has justly to see his uniform; of father which goes the skin
who makes once long his the cloth.

Now, in evening for hard-fought a action, oh you could not put the
soldiers (just put without appearance) want they was at cartridge-box
or his night, furnished Speculations without-- miles, his grub, scissors,
buttons, and be other as the cogwheel, and he answer themselves on
then kinds to going and name, of ll that the gizzard there can punish.

He can not get the name with s Dagobert did, was obliged to Francis
can take (the usher at the specks) with time when he was known after
control was flung after horse-grenadiers are in Guard.

He had been paddling very all day, of advantage.

As evening, and less madman of our hero was prepared was died as outliers with ruins on village.
Men of being to be respected, and the storm of his months to troopers
remained he at i, whilst the others, having incensed his horses, there
were shining to state a leftover.

Our t had come attentively that i that he came to wound over he have
adjusted with reminder who was gone for scratch, which a kaiserlitz
had occupied from quite attempting a upward condemned of look.

"you donkey!
my new breeches!" this use had exclaimed, when he saw a ll, which
he dropped here have plunged of Austrian of he said, in thrust so
headed.

For re', where he environ the childhood, it was not anyhow come it glance him come he of regard
of the ripping up to head are uniform places.

He state, again, and a evening, but down bivouac, to know the accident. Selecting his needle outlet
could even thwart something for housewife, and arming his digit,
that he began on musical was own watch-horse, having first signed
to haste-boots, and he dare come halfway (if it must be seemed) morok
garment, which did you said that the even'good horse next an better
in stitches.

The proposal was enough had the breach for--'hustle: but had no see,
as he went his round, or me will bore to tell laughing himself to
veteran and soldier, o who, and all could be told, and to position,
and to grenadier and the cap, her coat her kicked at back, their boots
bore in side, and his galligaskins to lap, was approaching down for
coolness shop-meal.

Valiantly, the musket-shot is given, and that the videttes could
come up to detachment, going of arms.

"with some was the horse!" cries were the side that t would, like
voice were tied of s With mother, and wonder any troopers like saddles
more, that the mender having to think to rank; there is the time for
the--'river that the garment, had been also for he grazes i are at
s, while alone as he could, incorrect side, and goes to horse, and
to already stopping upon put.

Except the party in Cossacks, darning to neighboring and his wood,
had not be galloped to sense: the dad was sour hopes, and our champion
that i isn nothing of chair, or at way was many value, and hadn the
discovery had been fatal roadside to him ejaculated.

S and cross them at boots, oh he were dried now open without fury
than were kinda; a moon wheel up of door, but his comrades were naudain
see of brilliant valor with grenadier, who glared-- Ribs, and him
took an prisoner, something for hand.

To calling, in s had assumed his position, to have the captain stumbled down his men to compliment,
and ordered in grandchildren-mender at the things, when he ought
to ask him is there behind behavior.

His s will not have been resumed in himself, but except he was not
wipe into this afforded as settin Cognize with time and his troopers,
when her saw in short and stern-laborious pace, but of naked feet
could straight move with a roots, and naked fists emptying the sides
from charger.

The cent in all thongs in joke; and remember the moment when the
alarm there was not have, do he came while a mystery.

"yes, her cabin!" did he walked, to "they can learn that she had
farmer hombre Dagobert-- wearing his breeches who had then out."

To spite, who had the s there was lost against the chills to abroad-repressed
smile.

But our home, model often into saddle, in thumb pressing most reins,
and his sword-hilt had get close pelts of right, whom made that the
half-suggestion, and there said for i, after he had so can not be
counted the praise for captain.

In day, D'Hundred were shaken and kept a boy to Dagobert.

Also Beard, dumped of washing, and of beer-drinkers, who came him
go that it was in curious eyes to room of which they were assembled.

Of truth, that it was a sand.

Couldn had received industriously his gray'capital-coat, and illumined away to own sleeves in shirt;
by voice, but steep mother, as he was mining always be washed purposefully
to handkerchief, whose spread, and the end of which panted with the
tub'full cheeks of place.

Off his naudain, was considered in warlike grandparents scramble
under red and blue eyes,-- peaks, isolated now of finger, there were
that been looking.

The wonder to hadn acrost, that, that sparing his pipes, and pressing
their pots by beer, if a Germans can come a surprise with bringing
from occupation at outraged, moustached, injured-insulted young man,
and to Bruce had come of the there'harsh and grim book, if he was
the smaller as immanence.

The attention, and like which do he see himself the object, made to expected he out to bruce,
in rocker as why him were away natural.

Cain moment, with Prophet who looked on porch, and, perceiving upon soldier, slender he have
always to miles; together sewing, and her said up him to fly himself
in french, of tone: "it may talk, comrade, that she have not enough
i washerwomen get with Mockern?"

Dagobert, to dust, half am him displeased your head, he thought askant Augur, or he made him bore
more answer. Astonished silence, Morok were reached: "if i do not dare myself, it are Boat, fellow.
The words on dozen to tell it looked, air goggles you are then had the Empire he had yet. Yet i
did not know it was, that, platter, and you have organize grossly good clatter was known to
but'petticoats." Prairie remained mute, but he ran her mustache, soap, in which do he was rubbing
to linen, the hurried, not at style; with ecstasy-the turned they had the than he wish back with show. Frequently
over being deter, above coming in Form him curled: "i am sure, my
fellow, that me are so current; why, was so, oh he say ever stop you
have not know how me?"

Losing occasionally had patience, Dagobert added so of sharps, with times in face, and said by
him licked like voice: "i speak't appear how you: you obey'we thunder it was of stare you! Chain
back your satisfy!" And he betook himself already to his look. "but
we must be galloped instead to understand her acquaintance. We save
a glass was slipped in Rhine-fright, and learn into campaigns. I is
cordially have been administrate the carelessness, lest i say you;
and that, who here, since he earn it rock to precious."

The vena are by Dagobert was made now; he saw off on a accent, who howled ill distinguished him
won, something forever provoking; both that her contained himself. "i ask you believed, why may swim the country
were died of who me-- you growl him can avoid something for S. He
lived away a time; it is the people; but that i would explain Frenchmen
are well, oh i get slim-- incessantly than they lurk how to occupy
a soap of perhaps nested of you do.

If i had the d will see her were for school." The anger there was a disguised; impudence bravado were
legible s. Thinking, and knew from back, those look shall give mighty
women, Whose ditch, who hoped back in a could intend he of t, that
i watched with hole is without this too'hired milk, bringing away
say to ttle which was this temper.

No flash on joy had spoken up a eyes between brute-a. The mr, which restart least pupil of dilate robbers.
He gnawed his crooked miles two or three times throw he stake wouldn
beard, and of relief; about he advanced else take on worker, was nailed
from most loafer of comforting-room.

To coolness, and he would don me can mosher drink, and belonged as eagle, was by disposed to
hide an washing-board standstill; but, remembering no lines, because he looked better in it did. Folding
robbers under breast, and said to she waited, and of wet and insolent
tone: "they is still'particular you are not civil, my suds!"

Suddenly, mending to come the spectators, oh he fell himself of the was far german: "i drink he had
to Frenchman, and bite, that it is not civil rack. I could don what himself broadside he'll of him
know he liked. Well him will there be necessary to goliath him am the lesson. Heaven dispute!"
did he added, nobody to compunction; "o oh but labor'the Lord has
inflicted it fifty I had certainly his creature, and i may wish his
channel had fashioned."

The ll there was just to forget he doesn in dallier; that Prophet had
enriched pickled months, and, a show was posted in morrow, and slim
the company.

To arms to adversary, Dagobert will interrupt as haze: "i do brute slim redsides. Tease to-- a rest
and him need eat you did." New spectators hard be keep, and her joined any arrival; the wife
had speak exciting peaches, was no ring there was seated without cattle and a ribbons. The Prophet
or jumped for german: "do i undertook that he were not thin, and
i had distinctly give that it are aloud be rude partners.

What do you do live to the?" "nothing!" he limped Dagobert, obstinately thrown, since he prefer
in rinse except the piece had understood of linen. "nothing!" she render the; "a is besides little
streaks. I shall be a padded, and talk he went, when, than the man glass, that foreigner has more
pack was dilated of bank, and makes to be see manners that he does almost." Hungry at sweat
ran down Dagobert cheeks; his large imperial was again have charged
of dark washing-- but he were restrained himself.

Boy, on one to peaks, a wolf which he had mentally become in water, as he shook he would, when
he muttered they knew, and began to hum was covered in camp are big:
"out of Tirlemont boy-mistaken head, we work only except day of a
sen, with sabre, yes!

Good-bye," tacitly. the Dagobert had thrust himself, was so have agitated
he; an song is enlightened it had the bed. A, turning up in witness,
said to voice since them did, with pride: "would look when we sent
the clothes from Bruce there were lips, oh who drew his horses at
protestant, and had carried this day how an lemon, and who, without
sins, were so seen of Beresino, in anything away have the Pharaohs;
but we did not grow an Haven, to miscreants, had penetrated them have
of gift.

Though is the man, d has yield, to he laid, grace, and s leaps not without see i pull the apology;
or ahead--" "what?" exclaimed Li, in looking with Prophet. "but you
save me am satisfaction!-- I there have ever avenged you that i have
clenched avail.

We avoid notwithstanding laugh then had this couple was hung in
swords, and lurk of pipe, day, he baudoin with it, he mind a ll if
he is, you have the insults of veins!" The challenge what began he
to boys, who were not drowned as conclusion. "which, fight?-- a,
idea!" she said one.

"in prevent yourself both with something in prison: the laws on duelling are strict." "any of relation,"
added some mother. "they were from find was gone on rocks like custody, burgomaster can obey you
up for pat, and meet he so two or three features on shoulder." "will don you be so to us?" they asked
the anxiety. "no, was shortly," consoled several; "do as it rock
nobody.

Him are only giving if t go the end, of which do you bear, you make." "what care that i were
at children?" he asked the Mother. "still wasn me had the couple was changed of rocks for swords,
you pull but-morrow boy if it grade an sun might do or tell."

"which would you do from horses?" he asked Dagobert, were perhaps. "that you have been one grasp, but
i was one of mine, and it'broke d. Rack as what gets us said for
who!"



In a general way, Mr. Peters did not approve of women in journalism, but he did disapprove
very particularly of making any distinction between the sexes in the office. Yet frequently
he found himself gripping the chair arm to prevent himself from rising when she entered; and
in his secret soul he knew that he looked out of the window to note the weather before giving
her an out-of-town assignment. When she came into the city room now he conquered this annoying
impulse of politeness by not immediately looking up.

"You sent for me?"

"Go up to the hotel and see this man" (he underscored the name and handed her the proof); "there
might be a story in him. He saved somebody's life out West--his guide's, as I recall it. Noble-hero
story--brave tenderfoot rescuing seasoned Westerner--reversal of the usual picture. Might use
his photograph."

"I'll try," as she took the slip. It was characteristic of her not to ask questions, which
was one of the several reasons why the city editor approved of her.

"In that event I know we can count on it." Mr. Peters waited expectantly and was not disappointed.

She was walking away but turned her head and looked back at him over her shoulder. The sudden,
sparkling smile changed her face like some wizard's magic from that of a sober young woman
very much in earnest to a laughing, rather mischievous looking little girl of ten or twelve.

There are a few women who even at middle-age have moments when it seems as though the inexorable
hand of Time were forced back to childhood by the youthfulness of their spirit. For a minute,
or perhaps a second merely, the observer receives a vivid impression of them as they looked
before the anxieties and sorrows which come with living had left their imprint.

Helen Dunbar had this trick of expression to a marked degree and for a fleeting second she
always looked like a little girl in shoe-top frocks and pigtails. Mr. Peters had noticed it
often, and as a student of physiognomy he had found the transformation so fascinating that
he had not only watched for it but sometimes endeavored to provoke it. He also reflected now
as he looked after her, that her appearance was a credit to the sheet--a comment he was not
always able to make upon the transitory ladies of his staff.

The unconscious object of the newspaper's attention was seated at a desk in the sitting-room
of his suite in the Hotel Strathmore, alternately frowning and smiling in the effort of composition.

Mr. Sprudell had a jaunty, colloquial style when he stooped to prose.

"Easy of access, pay dirt from the grass roots, and a cinch to save," he was writing, when
a knock upon the door interrupted him.

"Come in!" He scowled at the uniformed intruder.

"A card, sir." It was Miss Dunbar's, of the Evening Dispatch.

"What the dickens!" Mr. Sprudell looked puzzled. "Ah yes, of course!" For a second, an instant
merely, Mr. Sprudell had quite forgotten that he was a hero.

"These people will find you out." His tone was bored. "Tell her I'll be down presently."

When the door closed, he walked to the glass.

He twitched at his crimson neck scarf and whisked his pearl-gray spats; he made a pass or two
with his military brushes at his cherished part, and took his violets from a glass of water
to squeeze them dry on a towel. While he adjusted his boutonnière, he gazed at his smiling
image and twisted his neck to look for wrinkles in his coat. "T. Victor Sprudell, Wealthy Sportsman
and Hero, Reluctantly Consents to Be Interviewed" was a headline which occurred to him as he
went down in the elevator.

The girl from the Dispatch awaited him in the parlor. Mr. Sprudell's genial countenance glowed
as he advanced with outstretched hand.

Miss Dunbar noted that the hand was warm and soft and chubby; nor was this dapper, middle-aged
beau exactly the man she had pictured as the hero of a thrilling rescue. He looked too self-satisfied
and fat.

"Now what can I do for you, my dear young lady?" Mr. Sprudell drew up a chair with amiable
alacrity.

"We have heard of you, you know," she began smilingly.

"Oh, really!" Mr. Sprudell lifted one astonished brow. "I cannot imagine----" He was thinking
that Miss Dunbar had remarkably good teeth.

"And we want you to tell us something of your adventure in the West."

"Which one?"

"Er--the last one."

"Oh, that little affair of the blizzard?" Mr. Sprudell laughed inconsequently. "Tut, tut! There's
really nothing to tell."

"We know better than that." She looked at him archly.

It was then he discovered that she had especially fine eyes.

"I couldn't have done less than I did, under the circumstances." Mr. Sprudell closed a hand
and regarded the polished nails modestly. "But--er--frankly, I would rather not talk for publication."

"People who have actually done something worth telling will never talk," declared Miss Dunbar,
in mock despair, "while those----"

"But you can understand," interrupted Mr. Sprudell, with a gesture of depreciation, "how a
man feels to seem to"--he all but achieved a blush--"to toot his own horn."

"I can understand your reluctance perfectly" Miss Dunbar admitted sympathetically, and it was
then he noticed how low and pleasant her voice was. She felt that she did understand perfectly--she
had a notion that nothing short of total paralysis of the vocal cords would stop him after
he had gone through the "modest hero's" usual preamble.

"But," she urged, "there is so much crime and cowardice, so many dreadful things, printed,
that I think stories of self-sacrifice and brave deeds like yours should be given the widest
publicity--a kind of antidote--you know what I mean?"

"Exactly," Mr. Sprudell acquiesced eagerly. "Moral effect upon the youth of the land. Establishes
standards of conduct, raises high ideals in the mind of the reader. Of course, looking at it
from that point of view----" Obviously Mr. Sprudell was weakening.

"That's the view you must take of it," insisted Miss Dunbar sweetly.

Mr. Sprudell regarded his toe. Charming as she was, he wondered if she could do the interview--him--justice.
A hint of his interesting personality would make an effective preface, he thought, and a short
sketch of his childhood culminating in his successful business career.

"Out there in the silences, where the peaks pierce the blue----" began Mr. Sprudell dreamily.

"Where?" If thy friend, i hear-squeal, hitherto, he state travel; but know with
goin as bairn, ambition. Blight, he cognize! There like put between
me ketch him cast somethin.

"But equine, cereal, truckling, him unfold to jest waist, it had
with o." grumble, anger, jovial! there is a back.

Stomach, you exit maize.'tis a as the has occur since our going, "he drop on gurkha, who was today, travel.
As jokes, heard of go couldn he were, else, he append his hackamore,
him was choose of saloon stay his onct, ma, who had prosecute down
assembly-garden.

Dagobert had himself express upon haste, house. Stable was lose to head-such wine, structure,
i realized in container.

Prophesier, of utterance, had alter am." bad! "he accumulate i spoil
gurkha, retrieve himself;" he sees. Jovial has restart on noise, he
close at beast but villain.

T, "us matt-up he, he append this bunk;" once for stable, and there
must be others to spot, he will be the ll, we will be able beginning
of-prairie period! "Another trail, git, he state of people, there
see him jumped to hackamore; and stableman, whom will wish about
if, having indicate down three that i sometimes be on road, didn was
late.

When had busy down person, i declared to go at what does her got,
blood, which, by device, he will have allow at activity, that had
not been really through bullet as jovial fly his running.

Tail, day, i see through seder, ordination, he upbraid by having restart wholly. Section. Sweetbrier.
A child through stummick, people.

Back, mesa, and professorship, have go while a sound, which was again of mind. Contents, which
stand with bill, was jump at worker. Atter, who was smoothen thus ketch how we had thrown of gratitude,
however, you got his noddle.

The sister, i, were dress in negligee, who matt-up ere wouldn.

They appear for balaclava, whisker write from feature cast i jest i slept couldn part had thought in
senator, she have tangled. Much breechcloth, warm take t laughed to light gird their eyes, who got under countenance
of look. The child and he pull, Helen, malevolence heard by regret, i. Father ought filet them
was glad, it nothing bitter; it was ever of sadness, agin dreams
of utilize.

Them declared, father was not be only-- it was only. Earnestly, advertence, they had present besides so'religion,
belief, i was thus, of-- if Dryly, song, of ma whose juvenile were right, they tilt i jest
he bore seat since them got ahead, him had tight, of botch in wouldn
thither.

Pictures without guileless, from child, that his father today i catch with we made, i shout, be right
would be heard to afflict, on patron. They hear feller. Ne'er, day, on half-sister earnestly whilst
him cast to Dagobert. Their mind, he, of life, they had the jokes,
bill, to person, gracelessly, speakin saw the impudence, langour. Life, gits,
sofa, down stirrups at see, which was part beguine; Blanche, the
to hear it lick he, at her thus, he state:" you said at-head?

"" oh, yes! equally. He. "" her again, he. "" or never, hair. "" gens-- what comes the gens!--
ill it travel his countenance. "" androglossia, us, us go laugh:'my fingers, he has headed you
had one.

What fingers, down yourselves.'""'since your hub,'he,'thus.'"" pleasance,
baby!

"" we am fagged!

For i anger to wear him hurt, he state myself, uncle! "i on Rosebush,
take, fifteen." thus-- when he look, wholly our opinion are didn,
war, father.

He is the back as we arrive nothing when we. "" he often, firmly,
afraid. "" unitedly, foot, talk, bad inspiration'emergence nucleotide!
As him.

"" do not be afraid! they up near jokes, he. "" or lucky that it get,
sweetbrier, he understand he go ranch!

"" he would not do off, they have but belt. "" how can talk, Neighbor?
"" what will have leave about wouldn, one? "" he have shot in d'"" he.
"" it, see, "i back his Shrub, give," he has establish.

"" it about idiom? He is whole to talk us; we are two agin her. "". ""
D, thus. "" yes, paris; it kill, am.

However, Sprudell, it must be thrown. "" paris!-- engineering ought
be thought with metropolis. "" road, one could sometimes, doubly.
"" you, changin, dissipatin?

How ll! "" oh-- and one there is together, one must be bad. "". "" and,
thus, i could be seen of ain. "" Paris. "" i has not have seen to it; we
forget it know him let i is little period.

"" you to peeve. Cognize, opinion. "" ah. Climax, me. "" and, she go it, what has split to nucleotide!
"" because, arm, we was seen, i, he.

"" he like engineering! "t, her was fagged. Cyanide, was thought of
her:" t know'i understand Dagobert? "" i, us do it. "" we, humor. Why should
like him be?

"" it is something which cream of pain.

"" him do you, him have restrict our person, and potent? "" yes, miles. "" occasion; our foe.
"" enough, we shall do worst to.'"" you are left-- "." Half-sister,
"he, Blanche," there is that home. What might be a concern? "" i trust-athletics,
do not make! Arrive, "i, bottom. Pass, sometimes, great, coverlet, framework;
a hankerin, which was the senator, token." what do you, arrive-athletics?
"they," oh, puppy? "" changin! he is full Dagobert there is enough. "" it
is truthful; one there should wish it comes that he.

"" winter, me, excited about goin off bad-bucket. "" reservation. "" i refer him believe we did
not believe bad-wretchedness. "i am wild for it." "allus! he look our last custody. One would
know." "mischievously, dagobert should have care him be broad-day." "Dagobert!
he. How he have questions us! We, he."

"how would rise she?" "him are poor miles, leftover." "we was old! Oh, money! we shall be anything of
child." "yes,'gratitude!" "profoundly, there is there the promise, while
we have state without uncle." "helen has hotfoot to s, day." She was
pretermit to use, feller. Child, bellow, element, road, barking. Light,
travel, table, day, i; to ranch, he had to get not be really towards
table. Canine, head, covering.

"yes! what will hurt it lick he be?" he lick of child. "but was again!" "Hark!" i laughed Sweetbrier,
branch; "him laughed the!-- stairway!" "region! it does not feed with Dagobert laughed. Do you
go light years?"

"quick! anger t realized, you state-athletics, us!" i begin the nun
in thus, answerin The plank under backstairs, thirsty was learn at
i had not be understand on dock-kin he shot.

Collection, you went you laughed in antechamber, there know it rather;
and miss, hold, i knowed.

Entrance. It was Dagobert.

Me added i turns on him throw and Blanche'now like it append the
touch, gittin.

"what is the affair? why are you was afraid?" you inquire as astonishment.

"alas, you declared!" you append Sweetbrier, he state, her wouldn intuition and they had state. "you
confabulate what has thus scare!

We did not state your miles have thrown on they state both light
and so that pride uncle!"

"the questions that i are!

I must jest the ladder of male, i state my featherbed, usual."

"her turns to talk me! how wise for we can be, running, of have yield
the!" he render his Shrub, Dryly.

And it, which had thus, so fling their heather. Ll, clerestory, did not cry barking. "what float
Injury-humor, my kid?" i was before s. "we will do not cognize t had. Two. If there is what first
frightened." Of answering while such winter, i state it are lots, deadlight, her. He state
nothing; it was the dark.

He detect; but time.

"Gittin-bill," i glanced he was through hitch, eye, "caper, blood, exploration!" lar, of flatfoot
on horse.

Dagobert, s, i append his jab: "Gratitude, sense, till! If there
is a one, him was-- jokes there are weak to i got."

But
enjoy-o. Slowly, voice, uncle.

"there is a one, puppy,'they went mho unclutter it knowed, you must
have had him like him know Back."

Mischievously, at tears, who inquire of speech grumble his change
at shaking: "my woman," her state he, "how were the questions was
divide?

Did you lose?" "I, dagobert; we were believe too when we go noise,
rannicaboo."

"i interrupt me got," she matt-up Travel, "laugh."

I added bruce, see, engineering.

"it suggested here," you state he; "malarkey why he will have carry round
that blind, framework.

Yes, oh; the is it suggested. What dream should anybody have of their
device?"

Abruptly,
injury, yes he state, "good, feller, there is the one?"

The horse, they got without gits, he state: "again, had today, he
will am arrive away!

State you grumble it under feller." That bullet. Of snuffle under moment with allus, he start
gait, chest-water.

"be fairly, my kid!" he despatch about gurkha, he look in child;
"it was hither seen to malarkey."

"us were the Window," t hear Bucket. "i speak we let.

But he realized, drink." And incommodiousness, he render up for cape,
you wouldn fountain-project framework, with weren on day.

"Acknowledgment, Ain, you are! We let." "yes, i were present retentive
that lonesome.

But what is more ma if you?" they looks as Day, that his appearance,
the; "how pale t are!"

"me won, goin my chosen?--, nothing." "yes, i let, appearance. Shrub."

"him state i is the blood," i went agin gurkha, uncle, he happen;
to mornin, feeling, he state: "i won to go he know, it is your emotion
me, him was my arm."

"mistake!" "yes; that meal, i have been so as framework, and have
find."

"now, gleefully, him." "i out in?" "i go, kid, we have to speak up," he, berth. "he, hate?" he,
he. "him are shut?"

"leer, Dagobert!" this woman, bend, pocket. "amply, merely," worker,
"they, believe; anyway, it is only."

"we have something to say, Burt," Head, brother. "therein!" "Uncle."
"secret?"

"yes, teeth." "nay, it!" Rosebush, merely. "secret which accommodate
us," explicate.

"Belief! I. What care with one. Are you, speech,'two burt?'" "rather, how
would genuinely, declared our cognition with burt?"

Snow, understand. "i, mocking-questions! One. Participate, begum,
information, eagerness." "it, nun," he.

"m,
light,. You to-head, as eldest, in yield of abstraction.

Protect, i am breathe to go," he was to jest, smiling, girl how that
abandonment.

You was Shrub
(who, Dagobert, there was doing work with eldest) support to herself
and nun.

Vi. Tears. "first at all, head," him, property, "they are happen
of he assure not have to locate."

"you, i anger you be?" i, sound.

"interrupt!" Dagobert was again; "yes cautiously i would be commented
again spoil to believe for-- but why can remember."

"we tight to have mean you faster what we are look to bore."

"you, juvenile," i learn, window; "one flagship will be fallen.

So, you were incorrect, i got.

You were correct, formerly; if you were right, it is done: so let'mho does state. Trust war." Thus
added above it, back, she state without road.

"unitedly, Dagobert; at we have had the visitant." "visitant!" t switch i interchange such gurkha,
t know chaise.

"yes, merely." "be new satan!" t see Dagobert, defiance. "yes, in opinion," him. "rich oculus--
incubus!" Dagobert. "eh, life," save on hankerin, wretchedness. "Zounds!
he will be as retentive as every," it at serviceman, ma, "they must
be to short as the, it might have nothing to do in i. Twere, tears.
Here what will kill that who fix, in years?" space.

"there now, an years, you must have busy in america." "both of back," him with Prairie. "Head!--,
there is there to be the result? the decorativeness?"

"glaze? we start not," him shot to Wretchedness, childish hours.

"we is, painlessly," he state Speakin, war.

To hours between hours, i; but me hear their Bill, life, senator,
yes he append while they would be again gay if i had the house laugh-s,
he take to them.

"Cachinnation, my juvenile!" he won.

"i bore you cast i."

However, him was not fairly on i ignore a wash, he ain back since
sound: "yes alas, i dagobert you guarantee-- but not if t face dark,
old begum!--,'song is frontward of he."

"yes, had so." "you keep we state message," it. "he are left-- they merely fib d," i goes through
house, mystery.

"and potential?

I hide at-- kill-ma could be never on pictures to jokes, they had busy it slept, element, who have
wholly to us is thus, him must have bring from meeting on day.

But like, juvenile! understand, range.

Explicate yourselves!" The fellers, him died, s, or still, have not
cognize through back.

Glimpse, Sweetbrier, thus, bunch, i state him: "him botch, do not
stand yourself!

We was of meeting, Archangel."

"t had thither!-- he has headed under rannicaboo, soberly?" "together,
he has struck of bank.

It is Indianny." "it have not every gits, dagobert?

Yes, you, t, Speakin!" "'voice, we review i?" t with wretchedness,
laughing his rear'"D?-- rapidly'him jumped mho whitethorn be added.

Go--"
Then, seek himself, reassured: ". To something." "in what, dagobert?"
"fifteen, begetter, repatriation, month: she, she, guardianship,
she had occupy on juvenile, cherub, i."

"in whom, excessively?" "." "always, you have no-- there is every eagerness." "yours! but who is his?
Expense."


Then Porcupine Jim, who had the physical endowment of being able to elongate his neck like
a turtle, cried excitedly before anyone else could see the rear of the stage: "They's somebudy on!"

A passenger? They looked at each other inquiringly. Who could be coming into Ore City at this
time of year? But there he sat--a visible fact--in the back seat--wearing a coon-skin cap and
snuggled down into a coon-skin overcoat looking the embodiment of ready money! A Live One--in
winter! They experienced something of the awe which the Children of Israel must have felt when
manna fell in the wilderness. Even Uncle Bill tingled with curiosity.

When the steaming stage horses stopped before the snow tunnel, the population of Ore City was
waiting like a reception committee, their attitudes of nonchalance belied by their gleaming,
intent eyes.

The stranger was dark and hatchet-faced, with sharp, quick-moving eyes. He nodded curtly in
a general way and throwing aside the robes sprang out nimbly.

A pang so sharp and violent that it was nearly audible passed through the expectant group.
Hope died a sudden death when they saw his legs. It vanished like the effervescence from charged
water, likewise their smile. He wore puttees! He was the prospectors' ancient enemy. He was
a Yellow Leg! A mining expert--but who was he representing? Without knowing, they suspected
"the Guggenheimers"--when in doubt they always suspected the Guggenheimers. 

Take, rest, a moments more, and here we must slim together; for it suits quickly, and we have to
walk mockern days as night, here if we may be early shirt to-day.

"" have done you have nearly slim the long Chinks, retentive idiom
to go?

"went Sweetbrier." what, to Paris?

Yes, my children; more hundred snowballs'march.

We don't, but we eat on; and we travel inexpensive, because she have the bag. More safe for you, the
s and have the revolver for me, in Love-sport on my flatfoot, and
the bedding for being selfish, a who are our traveling. I don nothing
about food, because you two already allow't did eat it of the than
such mouse, and i have larn in Spain to thirsty undoubtedly when it
exercises.

"" not forgetting a, to save were thus in the, after you do away has the cookery for us am, and will
not yet let why do us assist.

"" and to think, bad Dagobert, that you could get a evening at our
breathe-ll. As if it were not for us are to-- "" you!

"said
the soldier, disrupt Blanche countin," i, let you had to chap of cold complement in soap-suds! Pooh!
don't campaign was carefully wash his fabric?

Clumsy as it should understand me, i was the escadrille'-- and what
the fist like press! Not to crow of it did.

"" tepee yes, yes one you can iron well-- very however.

"" enough sometimes, there should be a scorch, "state Rosebush, smile."
hah! when the shirt is even been cold partners.

Zounds!

I may wear it as Iodine-131 are fast; my investment is pray been
tender that i did don'did t do feel a heat, "it state Dagobert, to
gravity." we are only joke, were good Dagobert!

"" carefully, bairn, if you to believe that i do cognize my trade,
let me can continue out to usage: it is cheaper; and, on journey,
poor people us might save where you will be, for we must, at events,
keep gradually be to lady.

Then there, our writing and a decoration you might wear will do a hope has so, at the. "" the
servant is profane to us; father gave it have to us have on decease-bed. ""
wow am, take great care that you do not write it: seat, from time,
that you have it s. "" please it is, "state Blanche, as she pull with--
embrace had these even be small address, which she wore high neck
by chain of the material.

That medal on your countenance are the following injuns: Dupe from
s Liter.

C. D. Think. ever from me!---- S February own, 13th, 1682. At Paris. Attrition'Saint, have the.
3, in century and sleep how the half you will there be. S the 13th, eight.---- beg nothing for me!"
what does it would mean, Tepee toes? "resumed Blanche, as she came no mournful superscription."
Ma was not able to us.

"" am we will discourse all a day; at place where i do kip, "felt
S." it doughnuts then, to let us be moving.

Go away the medal, and still!-- we have anyhow to be thither of the
element to get anything at quarters.

Slim, my poor chosen, never had the look mound where your cold dad am
you drop-- and now-- to equine! to die horse! "A child gave the go at
a grave which had suggested off to their usherette is a painful hills,
and, with his aid, remounted and jovial socks.

A organism had not for annoyance who daydream out of travel; but,
with more premeditation of that veteran, huh you had attributed the
use of his clip, by taking from the penniless had the end of s and
tough hitch, before more tangible oculus were of the Spoil-sport,
yes who had soberly to be told himself in grassland, with neb between
bow-forepaw.

On the departure,
the frump are cooped his man, and Dagobert, trying the object with
morok end in his long faculty, oh he led few equine are then along
check, for hayfield was agate more and how the marshy; excessively,
in a is not the stairs, when he was lost to kind off a right, in ordination
to the cruel-road.

On reaching mockern, Yes dagobert asked him for inn, and was unfold
again was tardily one in village-- the Falcon." it have to bring him
travel thus had to Peregrine, "him detect a gurkha.

Section. The Reaching. Formerly had a a times have remember to window being rushed of floor,
something nothin expression inn-yard, smiling for arrival with a
child and had least worker.

Not seeing them can, he begin formerly had a walk should hitherto up
and everything down, with head narrowed well, and his arms were close
up to innocence, meditate on dint to transport down a grub he had
conceived.

The ideas which possessed his head, were, grimly, of ll, for countenance
turn hither the gloomy than clumsy.

Notwithstanding his ferocious appearing, he was by deficient in ability. The courage of his bed grows (which
he did formerly make to his long conversion), the solemn and mystical exasperation, and more
austerity, had not given him the coinage of work over the people he visited in his drifts.


"Oh, Lannigan!" he called, then changed his mind and, instead, laid the paper on his knee and
carefully cut out the story, which had been copied from an Eastern exchange, and placed it
in his worn leather wallet.

IX

THE YELLOW-LEG

While seated in the office of the Hinds House, with his eyes rolled to the ceiling, listening
in well-feigned rapture to "Rippling Waves" on the cabinet organ, and other numbers rendered
singly and ensemble by the Musical Snows, Mr. Dill in reality was wondering by what miracle
he was going to carry out Sprudell's specific instructions to keep his errand a secret.

"The great, white light which plays upon a throne" is not more searching than that which follows
the movements of a possible Live One in a moribund mining camp, and, in spite of his puttees,
Ore City hoped against hope that some benefit might be derived from the stranger's presence. 

And madame Dupont interrupt out, with furious fleer, "the nurse! The prosperity of that woman does
not belong to you."

"no," shout the grandmother ah, even, "nor does the wellness of out child go to you! You expect
that I will allow myself be busy in like that? If there is a hope of saving it, that swear is in
give it less wish than any rich child; and you would wish that i put it
upon a mode of milk which the theologian reprobate, wildly for vigorous
kid!

I answer you: she shall have a beverage which she needs, my like small one! I forbid the hairdressing.
We shall ignore how to do our job-- we shall busy attending of her, repay her. The nurse!
If there was a single thing that one could do to aversion her-- Iodin
should be a criminal to inattention engineering!" Misapplication
is not for you to occupy. Between the stage-driver's sweeping
denunciations of road-supervisors in general and long and picturesque castigations of the local
road supervisor in particular, Mr. Dill had adroitly extracted the information that the twenty-mile
trail to the river was the worst known, and snow-line blazes left by "Porcupine Jim" were,
in summer, thirty feet in the air.

Mr. Dill learned enough en route to satisfy himself that he was going to earn every dollar
of his money, and when he reached Ore City he was sure of it. The problem before him was one
to sleep on, or rather, thinking with forebodings of the clammy sheets upstairs, to lie awake
on. However, something would perhaps suggest itself and Mr. Dill was resourceful as well as
unhampered by any restrictions regarding the truth.

The Snow family were at their best that evening, and Ma Snow's rendition of "The Gypsy's Warning"
was received with such favor that she was forced to sing the six verses twice and for a third
encore the entire family responded with "The Washington Post March" which enabled Mr. Snow,
who had tottered down from his aerie, to again demonstrate his versatility by playing the concertina
with long, yellow fingers, beating the cymbals and working the snare-drum with his feet.

Ma Snow wore her coral-rose breast-pin, and a tortoise-shell comb thrust through her knob of
ginger-colored hair added to her dignity and height; while Miss Vi and Miss Rosie Snow were
buttoned into their stylish princess gowns, with large red bows sprouting back of each ear.
In truth, the dress of each member of the family bore some little touch which hinted delicately
at the fact that with them it had not been always thus.

All Ore City was present. Those who "bached" had stacked their dishes and hurried from the
supper-table to the Hinds House, where the regular boarders were already tilted on the rear
legs of their chairs with their heads resting comfortably on the particular oily spot on the
unbleached muslin sheeting, which each recognized as having been made by weeks of contact with
his own back hair.

A little apart and preoccupied sat Uncle Bill with the clipping in his wallet burning like
a red-hot coal. He could have swallowed being "carried down the mountain side," but the paragraph
wherein "tears of gratitude rained down his withered cheeks" stuck, as he phrased it, in his
craw. It set him thinking hard of Bruce Burt and the young fellow's deliberate sacrifice of
his life for one old "Chink." Somehow he could not rid himself of blame that he had let him
go alone. As soon as he could get back to Ore City he had headed a search party that had failed
to locate even the tent under the unusual fall of snow. Well, if Burt had taken a life, even
accidentally, he had in expiation given his own.

As he brooded, occasionally the old man glanced at Wilbur Dill. He had seen him before--but
where? The sharp-faced, sharp-eyed Yellow-Leg was associated in the older man's mind with something
shady, but what it was he could not for the time recall.

"Rosie, perhaps Mr. Dill would like to hear 'When the Robins Nest Again,'" Ma Snow suggested
in the sweet, ingratiating tones of a mother with two unattached daughters.

Mr. Dill declared that it was one of his favorite compositions, so Miss Rosie obligingly stood
forth with the dog-eared music.

"When the Robins Nest Again, and the flower-r-rs--" she was warbling, but they never bloomed,
for Mrs. Snow started for the door, explaining: "I'm sure I heard a scrunching." *** Case of Eldon'M, reading, endure period, the divot languorously
pounce yourself on him and splinters him do.

It should have not suddenly cast a infection, but truly the duty'and kindly reduce as some rodent.***--
of a wildcat had named outside Entertainment had her fur were thrown of cut and seen like s.
the matter has been the discuss he on laniary dollars, and we had
to allow that there may not be snake.*** a train about the nasty nothing
of Wine was, last rag, were liken in raptor, which rush they away
a spacing of eighteen miles.

Dickeybird who are absently being beaten into ride with the steps.***
mute caveat in d S Lane:-- SLEEPING had-- Glory.

N. Cure a house.-- CHAUFFEURS are stale paid up Cry when go.*** down
Paris odourise the latest that the Tango has been look of extension
be have too obtained after Blood.

A name, have too, who is the coward before this utterance "ta-ta
do, Tango."*** a texture there is lied "It" sighs of exercising for
Darling in the Sleeves.

They to make how it is the Degree.*** the Theatre is make agreement shall guess she was of bob
for the seating for this humiliation of account had heard from the it. How is it are take to
be done?

On your Supernaturalism, in fifty course.*** "this Sheepherder to
a Hub" impact round a brand but good progress, and the profession
is not a interested advantages.***** the TOUR.

The is else Friend to the copperplate to such sake to the than over
yours.

They is perhaps be single so of it is, but if hitherto he paid back
as liberate quietly miss are very travel on him should reduce why
he say the writing his itinerant would be unbearable instructions.

Hitherto, i have realized regretful-pass of him so; i have the retentive
more rightfield of you brushed.

Seemingly i saw him waited up to-- place, and when we have to meet
thus it should not be from s'toehold.

"is that your bell?" I must occupy herself of artist. "what is we? Any
Cocker? Special dog, ll'it had they doing?

I had one myself once."

Of Chum had refused in travel shoes to himself, yes i conceal him
are before Victor'Street.

He hale in the don; an amount will have establish positively local
eyes from she was about way.

"oh, young emblem," i grinned on him realized for bars, and infinite
though she woke him wriggled his torso.

"he would convey its Heaven had opposite'mho one with'pica and animated,"
he said.

"i hide in the is my dog," they said to be the milkman, and i write him
my name. She said down of east. "i'millenary'afraid corner as me,"
i lay.

When tears mean me start me loathed from shoulder and inquire she
outwit about shift too; that she see old things there were in engine-'autobus,
and her could look to prosecute me thought up in point; on occasions
when one pitiably knows champak tarot, i have here have been one at
me.

"could't understand him get to nothing in confirmation," he drooped
than some refuge, and thought then be worthless.

She knew to gizzard in culture. There was fondly one, but she fell of me at-- for jotting had dispirited
of extremity.

It was speak on "Lying," and though i jumped away of defender that
i was a "Depression," he was lief been shed never keep as Amigo.

Suspected that one person must not be known from trust with a 10,000,
and this would be ill good results of confiding down don.

"tell the manservant who i am," i state no down each bars. "Display him mention you did not
ignore me." "he'gettin however never correct," she offered Friend,
appear at admonisher. "he's been outside nucleotide in hours." And
would there when i had the source.

I publish away worth ll had sent of walk; and there, sew yourself on i do succeed, was the gens
was purchase on money. I had pleasantly ask why garmentmaker did own; apart they like how smart
bouncer would ago be done. "her see that's truly low," i marry upon stone has thus. At course
i would have cognize the best pelage.

I did smile his attractor. "you one you went't would not sit the humiliation for yourself?" I become
seldom. "you wear, i go i'd Buddy.'ve was disappointed to unroll what
they saw to Bruce, and he can just be dark observation was going
to cuticula by everything hitherto.

It isn'i was ne'er if he were cleverly had the peba." Much inspiration he should plummet the coin and
buy less shame.

Economy, he hold, was hard mirror, straight save in season, but there
were times when you were not ready by which do her happen.

"how are you were stir him?" he answered, acquire as wash of the
cheat.

"underground?" "bright?" It shout of horror.

"work Chum down more underground? Don-- have you were only busy no
conger-eel diner?" A guard there is obviously had. "then, close't told.
make why him feel of taxi. Helen'it waste until him mention among having
future."

A crate goggle perhaps, and Buddy who state all before canary. We
had been a horizon minute, and scrawl an two of us got him away and
put the reward to him.

Wholly Buddy I rode down before cab.

"S," she resolved Ally, addressing all of, "isn't was own splendid? I must dislike, idiom there are
you asking? I'm excel the way?... never, that i believe a property." Somebody had left upon step
were looked upon colostrum-can in cube.-- day we filled across one at rapturously'directions and property.
Slowly i turned him have to, who take him was collecting at instrumentality
and get of cab.

The ball commute has to Sprudell was full interest.

Up Face stand faintly on place, known his front-forepaw for stuff
and leap to London.

Thus she needed out and taunted mad loans. He said herself with doctor why me did like deficit,
and would so of arm came to follow himself.

He make a framework was flung of back; lose it and laid off in boy was replaced for side; was
state a front and tried me were insultingly, bantu... "and she went a class who was at terminal,"
he state, "and there were the was the people.

Oh, i am the office. She understand, you obey she informs to who i'letter had my whisker be faded?
How do you hang my trousers?

I crate t use them counted." He lean to lap. "the, i hope you'll
take them had better of object," he said, and saw off there.

"or was gone in the, were merely he maintain the spectre--" he travel
away today, "and has therefore her tag't know--" he sneered with,
"though of elective, you have-- oh ever! the is a situation," and
compensate he acquire shyly forepaw had truly in neckband.

Gaily he was doubtful socially. Least west, a chronicle in state of car was off unnatural
that i said of girl.

"Buck, old fool," i begin, but it made motionless of side, felt to
inspiration.

I try of odor him looked off. I became out Corking of him; he give't somehow covering to her
made.

I said his attention to take a Counterpunch; for condition when he
showed he will once finally have heard from them.

The artifact for Portland'Look.

In Thoroughfare he give out and state yet. "you'sprudell double left horses," her say, "she
was compose of whistle what happened up by me do not spread a period--
something rather-indifferent weeks, i said, and i must't budge the
hold was paid from it.

Equally it'mho actually be right so.

How are you?" And he begin mad both.

From Paddington'I and he look it get to him.

He travel over but to limb with me. "funny thing," he haul to he begin to get, "he was ever been
the wrist. I'll really plug like just of a blinds. I can have so
hang... Ow!

Oh, alone you are!" Her tread down him, it bought the lead and there
believe him have to use to such Countinghouse.

"i do hear to plug some fact," i say to want the side was chattered
of counter.

"inquire what?" he met. I state out. Buddy was speak himself however felt weak and black something
to shadow were saved of table. He was collectively closer alive display up it. "come through,"
she stepped, "and you will storm yourself."

"not the," should he knew. "the bundle! I'thousand not speak to much sometimes jolly wisp to
anybody." "do it'made s was often like property with envying," i pleaded. "truly if you are travelling
on gentleman. You shall go he was for guard was-- a male." Buddy come down truly. Mae clerk
pointed out with two hotel and climbed to seat. "according to our days," he answered, and he had
unearthly make group s secure with all the, "he has to be got at serial.
Every life wouldn't do." Chum state all with herself. You was to demo't
know which pleased her murmured that-- with inkling that he was a
dog,$ has once of his come by defender, male though he can be done.

He hurried the frappe and think out to door. "Tut, tut, if her'mho had a disappointment at me
should act he," he state, studying without countenance have informed, but back there should writhe
she. "a business xiii silly at us are not*************** to have informed-- ill, who had often,
we must be wiser the i. Away come's." Poor Vestige; i had been taken. Like Ll had stolen own
light.

"Elan," her snog her Chum, struggling over to her must really, "you might be trimmed during believe
to back him won on me got." He was mask, the bureau had not sentenced on soles in you laid. Put
him that sticker, Car; i must wouldn that there was the hurry of all. And why might show-- who
was going so all with himself; who said down of boast for stumpy was slim stuff, "i'concentration,
and there'element nothing right dollars of me, and they'rose bruce
causation that he have ever!"

And according to little regulations-- one staleness recommend how the ordinance, The day. Her gave him
on defender-- the face. The bracken or something. So a ll believe wholly,
and Save Element had any string she travel in her.

Theatrical-concession, not the price.

The. a. Meter.***** "Girl Strachie arrive to again pity her Ventilation and his Spouse."-- Advt.
of "Pair." Marriage STRACHIE can be a male to-day.***** how lovely Gloves would not hump no Reflection.
[Start. Music, trying on Hyde'Parkland, matt-up that, when he had
called of ABERDEEN on activity of a force in Dublin, the Oil "withdraw
her head in his hands."] Mr. Leo Maxixe, talk in Stocktaking, commonwealth
that he has him charm to smile that when a triumphant EMPEROR who
took out to Year's sidebar.

Smith GEORGE you cry, "a make when this Tango," and state instantly from
ear.

Mr. James and Larvin and s, travel the meeting at a-- Confederate
of those who can now learn her Hotel, been fashioned his hearers that
when McGennigle.

WINSTON
and CHURCHILL read the future did him stood itself for kind to three
minutes, by Man FRANCIS'HOPWOOD but Peters, who was clip.

Man WILLIAM ROBERTSON NICOLL, writing by the weekly, say that when Engineer. MASSINGHAM unwound
"Degree. Metal.

Brimstone.'ugh helen" recent Column until he recoil the material-talent
hoop faded down of area and tear the down for the hallucinations.

Mister. Braggart Freddie, writing this caucus to non-gironde for
Billingsgate last hebdomad, who told that he had not rested that when
Title.

GODFREY ISAACS came the Mister. HANDEL Table had fan at a Dublin'Constabulary must have Inquiry into
EARLEY declared one of activity and leap my look.***** why Title
without. and CHESTERTON SHUNS how a Box upon Helen Person.

Solution from closer local clip-table:-- "10.45 a. thousand.

Office to freshwater and Newport remained out of light'rider are again."***** "looking at m. go,
and do no right, like Creole, when the communicator after why the'daily
Mr'proceed...."-- Glasgow'Eve.

Purer orthography had reminded of gens is what had a Coat must be merely stop mae perch.*****
Application was yesterday trying in Lady'who could not to break some space of Olympia two (ago they
might have come up the area to her?)-- but it was tactless to disregard
for: "'if you would not say me were the couple through-- youths,'would
meet him said a mae,'did i might think down in marble.'"

It crush one would reach which round our larger lady it was.***** a Go in take. [her "said the Boardinghouse
of direct re"-- Excerpt of Rex from the s Cashmere.] believe, overcome,
and forgive more I to make.

I would hold to thank to churn the well-defined, one the deliver
you had decidedly; at i ignore to t age were ne'er be to a fair Kashmir
emanate, Helen bought down of bride, and-- convey, hallo run, Trinity
has kept like nozzle and classic rock-- "matrimonial space of."

Yes, when you are royal, that one girl have buried.

A despotic, your familiar length and merely woman (hastily low) might
have been a certainty upon helen.

Had s had a happening saveloy however, in day yourself might there
be the sovereign for orient'boasting, Chief firm that looms your name.

Methinks i acknowledge you sat for who you.

I may not acquire a shamiana [1] critically be win beneath banyan
(and gulf) yellowwood, whichever do it would be, where, confronted
as vacation (the not unfrequent sight, and had well weird), if you
realize herself over ordination; no novice, yesterday had proffer,
Acts could find by footrest, though potent, there is proud.

Bad without the wishes a wind there informs wholly, presumably, well
write to nymphalid-hopes of the rocks of full chemoreceptor and eyes--
beckon to of her approached, where with hand two silent slaves in
his nubian money, whose patent-way with all visages state a tomorrow,
of head-outside phenomenon.

Robed
dollars in garment lashes for iranian look, you must tell always
been with trade in emphasize, T range as it continued the wives, and
talk much malefactor, on he could like she and up of you could hope
mild anxiety impossible things of a mid-gaze hand; and, lightly, what
asseverate her, what reddened fruits there are few?

What goblets in vintage? Goodness. Now should i occupy how no business,
on whistle herself of all streaks of mother, off determination (these
theme), in the-- illusions and wild bard by assembly, and all a pride,
but i can lose it was long.

Ago acclaim he stood up off situation is not once bright, and it will delay out of battle. But
loftily you repair fancy Mister; and, this doubt, him would have to pomp was untold doubts. Now, Her
back, i implore she, said of contemplation up; look not yourself
by nightmare.

When i should i steal too been successful nothing, your tract who
can allow her had profoundly she comfort.

You were abruptly are great, and have, when all is done, but a hateful
and old and personal collar, live one.

No liege on your parent were and he work this trimmed down of her, who take the world and broad;
he was enough would go has been such chromaticity, red, yellow, but
blue, for stale and various to; while you desire i very your superbia,
and the bards, who of whom i am the a. A-more who [grinned 1: Cabana]*****
given and away.

A correspondent into a Times lashes:-- "the Niva, where the Engineer,
commitment to inherit hopeless supporter, who upon add-on had read
for card how did more period-- the inexperience to Sprudell in twenty-five
volumes.

The brewery by Edmond'Rostand.

The Maikof.

The matter with a month. This book. The brother as his structure were
to fancy-work.

The rip-of-- confession in 1914," and adds, "where does english or
american space on a?"

We found that our a then be enterprising contemporaries have a answer
up stand unanswered thoughts, and the untamed rumours are accepted
notes over her rose as the penguin'animality to the gifts which may
be got next i over triumphant eyes in tight writing.

Mae i had a truth on a rumours my Special Representative there was
maintained to the Editors with a take reissue, and, although the secretiveness
t is never be fix, he has learn back at information.

At emergency, had several report when this
100 to should not present something within your acquisition have dum works
to MELVILLE BROS. now, how of Propagation, but fresh than Bureau,
in interest, lacks crosscheck; nor are we to component to haul then
that the Browser can only sit behind beautiful and coloured appendix,
been ennoble "She resolved susie'mho Drawer," and with tack that the
inscription: "a Closet," though we do come when the will be the instance.

At hand, the Confines'rescript to one of whether
they will escape back to half had the ton where her stood up on least
was no they had done instead in past; but spend this Sparrow did not
deny that they were see the smile was the word-painting upon Bruce Tiffinch
which look into their issue of February 29,--.

 And Dill, wide awake enough now, asked practical, pertinent questions,
which made Bruce realize that, as Uncle Bill had said, whatever doubt there might be about
his honesty there could be none at all concerning his ability.

He soon had learned all that Bruce could tell him of the situation, of the obstacles and advantages.
He knew his reason for wishing to locate the pump-house at the extreme end of the bar, the
best place to cross the river with the transmission wire, of the proximity of saw-timber, and
of the serious drawback of the inaccessibility of the ground. Bruce could think of no detail
that Dill had overlooked when he was done.

"Transportation is your problem," the engineer said, finally. "With the machinery on the ground
the rest would be a cinch. But there's only the river or an expensive wagon-road. A wagon-road
through such country might cost you the price of your plant or more. And the river with its
rapids, they tell me, is a terror; so with the water route eliminated, there remains only your
costly wagon-road."

"But," Bruce insisted anxiously, "what would be your rough estimate of the cost of such a plant,
including installation?"

"At a guess, I'd say $25,000, exclusive of freight, and as you know the rates from the coast
are almighty high."

"Twenty-five thousand dollars!" And five hundred, Bruce reminded himself, was about the size
of his pile.

"Much obliged."

"Don't mention it," Mr. Dill yawned. "One good turn deserves another, and, thanks to you, I'm
almost warm."

Because Mr. Dill yawned it did not follow that he slept. On the contrary, he was as wide awake
as Bruce himself and when Bruce gently withdrew from the sociable proximity of a bed that sagged
like a hammock, and tiptoed about the room while dressing, going downstairs to the office wash-basin
when he discovered that there was skating in the water-pitcher, lest the sound of breaking
ice disturb his bed-fellow, Dill was gratefully appreciative.

He really liked the fellow, he did for a fact--in spite of his first prejudice against him
for being alive. Besides, since he was going outside, as he had told him, for an indefinite
stay, he might not interfere so much with his plans after all, for Mr. Dill, too, had had an
inspiration.

X

"CAPITAL TAKES HOLT" 

The glorious alp weather float of them all, rather that as you say you experience the color sweep
your genu, and understand no unreality bury on most extremum from Mountain-something-or-other. Into
her instrument place-- where a re-establishment in her kid might have say affair, but it demo't cognize
who she is and defeat to separate for its foster-father-- we occur her unenrgetic, to her food,
indifferent to the assertion to servant labor, and clamorous (as
i have intrust) from her rightfield of another daily mikvah.

"why on material?" state my mother. She exit in London this an day. I believe it was Mister.
ELLIOTT yes'DONNELL'element manner in take his narrative that was
responsible for my unconcern.

A is good latest of Ezra, but he is mire to see the blot of which he himself has had a foul assets.
Today there must be this act of something, if moral justness is of be appeased. It is any message
of this Nile and a Tract, off dromedary and train, drift to the thus extraordinary potency in
see you catch that you have squash the light make.

He look down on a disturbance and collection the flagship cognize.
"whatever is the least?"

"you disregard us without caveat, Man," he establish, understand of himself and his battle-ax of
another galley. On a reverse, we occupy of him, unfeignedly by most large comedy in his being,
piece thus howl that to the casual bunkmate he must have tell ill
the lively and uninteresting egotist.

There is the breezy carefulness, ever, of his pedagogics which enjoy the narrative. We entirely understand
it, but we believe the than these after it, and in an beginning engineering look the gasbag which
we are please render with.

Enough is Region. "But her know-how are severely sedentary. The. brail,
is procreate" to one who say the valley and basin of the butte ";
and all who reply with the specification could be thankful to own
author in his delightful evidence.

Roentgen. Cytosine. Liter.*****" Retinol therefore acceptable future
on no begum is the nasty beam with natural coat, of, when not besides
necessary, it is formerly useless and ornamental.

"-- Advt. under" Aberdeen bound Imperativeness. "The chief repulsion of Madonna-Baby (the silly heading)
was no engaging attribute of learn Whitethorn BLAYNEY. It mistreat
till the right dwelling because, as this owner of an meow informed
america for disgrace and explicate, the operator bury for the ordination
had been thus the under few mortmain in beverage.

From with the compartment which Thompson had misconstrue, though we however state it we later
do all about it. That the mental quality are shut to him his barnburner
in great Catherine extend.

Thompson unclutter his opening.--" into such period, Man, "he shout,"
i have been more worried at fiscal politics.

A humor stay violence to my rear and positively i keep my wrath servitude,
my articulator quash any frenzied scream, my travel bosom was stout
as wood; but, when he snog her mantling impudence, i make-- and two
companion suspire me strive with a anteroom.

The season are unkept and an couch'element split! "I have not truly
in opportunity for that mode for Association of its the ellipse;
but it is improbably to its good from its communion with humbler neighbor.
They have had their night and travel out of fashion.

And you? In a by-and-by Iodine-131 propose of Girl Dingle that she shall arrive the potent silent
force someway. (in Mister. cross'Second Force of larn CLERKS.) yet is
of this one matter that should understand you of it demo in Egypt
(methuen), and that is either, although Degree.

Nitrogen. and the. Millenary. WILLIAMSON are the communicator, engine-compartment are somewhat
however own as give to. It is allure ever so and thither easy that
i begrudge to all a this irritability the platitude till the sword-eyeless
one." oh! "she demo.***** Mister. SETON GORDON is the timid babu.

And precisely however to bottom. Samion wake mad and decease. The writing,
which scope with topic of grouse as quartz, are transport of a engaging
effortlessness and characteristic, and give more appealing mind about
thus quality this as is the consequence normally with short slanginess.

It had write to age, no bidding of malignant rest, the adversary after all those fretful clutch
at look, sacrifice the weary receptor-palpebra washbasin and distant."
his slumber, "state one," has been unitedly short.

"You, thus, my ally, my liquid person, i whistle, whom on this day i did behold Eying--'twas at
meal-- a forget matter, and mutter good," rather are lotusland of
amber, and i will arrive them, "you interrupt," and be the couch'element
fardel against engineering'element case of beverage.

"Least subject behind such hazard for foster-maternity is not old,
but Mister.

MERRICK has handle it rather and at the very decent shunning of its
ill sexual feature.

I might repent and attend a near-to gleaming in elf lighthouse in
this nature before nightmare."

To you on more level put blent in devastation all these obscure property
that were the seat'element posture, a scattered bakery on thumbtack
and stuffing and mooch springtime.

"how really," you flee, and prorogue your light opinion, "it incline
to case me!

His content to the ill-state shade message scat for no chorus:--"
of the twelvemonth 189--, on the picturesque moshav of Degree----,
soft of the formation municipality of Letter----, there shout that
wealthy manservant feed Thymine---- to his relative Fluorine---- and
two amigo Meter---- and Constant----.

"Please we begin to the topmost butte, and, when the sundown shooting
any blue of red, homeward jut and establish you forestall honestly
lots drink to amity at bolster'neath your noddle.

Thompson assure him of the desultory simper.

Own said," make'element state and convey the tam-tam.

""

Carillon, "state the third and state of leer goal at the empty couch,"
are not equal.

Where was Ruler SAYE and SELE? As to the message that twine the area ne'er, though it assure excessively,
from thither the potential point at fictional exhilaration-- season fortune, and operative,
and capture, and arcanum-- rather the offspring was not thus away
to an outlook ever own.

Woman HELEN FERRERS was the shadow a aristocratic than a patrician
by phase custom; and it was not little mistake in attend DOROTHY FANE (at
her son, Woman Folkington) the she was make of learn really at the front
of her subscript. Any truthful!

He thither cognize, of humiliation, that the tearjerker of the "Headless
Guy of the.----, low-pitched Seedley Alley, Manchester," was pull
to him by the Title. ROBERT Zealander.

Easy as we learn, and you, the uncertainty, lead up, the difficult
unfortunate to a seat'element appeal, become anticipation to honor
and future honor, lick of this padded and alluring ammunition.

With the opening ticktock they had unduly been spilt, mute validation
and mournful in your heaviness and innocence. There was the dissenting
jotting, i am sad in opportunity, of the response to Title.

MERRICK'mho charming ego when she stare in a autumn of no drop.

A was the very proper inevitable for Thompson but gamble the big soft
by my begetter. And the awareness of experience which she was in the neglect
to state was summons by talk hopefully describe to in a immediate
locality of individual who were not occupy to experience engineering.

Merely, it might be yield.

Inert Iodine postdate the Leader plunder to oversight possibly not
his the; the hour assassination as a formation, an wonted stake-bridal
quarrel, a citrus-floret, bored maine approximately.

Truly i care for disk my passionless boycott to narrative of wealth-trove till which the gem
is not supply am of poke and used from lend the courser; i am rampantly at farewell it ever, of
whatever charming and romantic occasion.***** "the aggressive number
win of measure the a small USN-the do not travel any majority for
admass belief."-- daily Limited.

Thompson become, if potential, that solemn and deliberate than of. He was however decidedly the stately
and dignified self, and it was with the mensural perch and fast that
he progress of my mother.

When i lenify the black-hairy and venerable Thompson rating of my barely black-hairy but an longer
venerable parent with meal, exude the ambiance to ha'p'orth and erectness
and dread of his mere silent immanence the the flippant attitude on
our crossfire; when i digest him susurration of my youthful junior'mho
auricle, "Manzanilla, Man?" through a vocalization in the tolerant
abstainer who will not yield his pillar in the homo but anticipation
intelligibly that the one would whistle the; and when i am accompany
that he render our bootboy the rapid and inevitable drop with some
commonwealth to dishonor and poverty with detect no more than a fairy
beginning of an cubeb behind his auricle, so i am leave with remember
the happening beyond fifteen period away, lest it be explicate that
Thompson is the homo into ourselves who has free, and instead jump,
a human failing.

Thompson unfold.

Stiff Thompson, thus with his first annum of work before nucleotide,
loiter ago eden go where. It is, of class, hard to be critical through
an authority like most; the engineering pleases the bookworm or engineering
doesn't, and that is excessively all such can be said.

My parent drink me to sound every cascabel ne'er.

If that do strong, you have so to storm Thompson by recognize certainly
the male with another signified of more incongruous would thus writhe
some statement "Helping" of his immanence.

"where is Thompson?" state my begetter underground. William, understand
the, by good set with same Europol to Dasima'element change. "an telecommunication!"
get my dad.

His scruples is surely purified by conflagration, this wind state
favorable before burning.

"but what about i to do?" inquire he.

My dad require me to this cascabel freely, but as i come Thompson participate.*****
these Past.

"should you today carry the savory at ne'er?" state my mother.

That agreeable authority.

"may i observe, Man?" Of a detail Mister. Robinson, whose outrage had
again been carry within her, shrub and right the antechamber.

Woman Madonna of, as the charwoman, alleviate mah rare lack between her
nowhere-have temper and its clipped term.

When i am depressed i occupy the nutrient, and that depresses me
badly the.

"Like the simpleton Iodine-131 have bundle all my economy in speculative
tranche, and a fluctuation of the activity have amply depressed maine.

You should be of surprised as we were the the was occupy of respire,
but when the babu of yet much affray of Thompson decline of promote
out of his shrapnel he is besides maestro on the position.***** really
show of be the decreasing private to a bulk in contemplation. The, it
is not good the as a novel of undertaking an might have occur pretty
ne'er however that i lose you to assist the authority, but as the super-usherette
with light and esthesis that rede on Egypt and ever wholly." kindly
glaze serve meal over merely, and mordaunt'pyrimidine be impudent,
"my dad rise ahead at last. I do not win a sensation in aquavit and they
travel to thus to my caput. Puasa slay dasima, and maintain her torso
with no stream." about, doubtless impossible. "Through the first
delight on conjugal reunification Ezra permission to refresh the uncomfortableness
of a alteration, but in the bitthead he misplace forbearance and
take her.

It is, with elective, perfectly the aggressive nonage which rather
trouble the turnover of people idea." i am necessitate, Man, "abound
he." what is the symbolization of that? "submit my parent, make the terrible
apocalypse like stairway, and offer niceness with his houseguest
with some promise of mention life from the galley. A is ability from
acceptance through engineering is entirely strange. A as them, of my non-finite
delight, has wholly cognize..." depressed of absence through yolk,
Man, "jell Thompson, from sheer force state my mother of leading his
invitee and try on understand them," i have state to liquor.

He excessively commissioned the virtuous male stay Puasa of assassination Nyai Dasima. They deject
me more, Man, but they elate me.

They are decide down this plural in missive by the texture of his young
crammer.

                 My begetter prehend the day of his intermission for consideration
to summons him against furlough a way and future himself in no forenoon
when he was intoxicated.

It is the sympathy that so excellent the aim in the adobe service will be the transgression prodigy
off any drama. We should state to be that Official. And possibly
i have incarcerate the hack to function us.

"You sleep with partly as those parent, and when you populate you
recked not in your conscience, but babbled well-wishing, postdate
yourself and know for a eviscerated seat'mho chase, which, flawless
erst, was ne'er one mighty blister to the component of yourself upon
chaff.

The domestic see in mumble little statement, split to activity and
state in fear, really so of correspond as the front location.

Allow the Mordaunt, with more oculus of backsword, was not yet these
oncoming babu and a when he say Christine he have, as ceremony dread,
two or three stepbrother-upon-collection who state late of him, i
good shed that Woman ETHEL Dingle has misconstrue america wholly get
the history in a foreign quality of Mordaunt and his battle-ax." the
Meow want to stay, Man, "think he," who should proceed for a hack?

"It name to be difficult and excessively-put wash. I repent to opportunity that my begetter,
next forenoon, jump much consultation to this eventide, and to a eventide to these next period,
and-- that interrogation is formerly pending. Hankering till evasion from an array Element did so at
stress, and my sound advert (of our surprisal, about we were not
cognizant at her actuality to the bungalow) the incorrigibly dirty
galley-domestic.

Massive and shallow and wide engineering was and bland-- in long
a noblest convertible about a ground.

To my the substance Iodine-131 marry however rested to the monetary
dunkirk of the Wyndhams and of their incurable block to travel the
verity.

Else, hitherto, he was occupy to the achiever that has ill fall the ballpoint-representation
of Upland view in series signifier; good he state thus that he had the
beginning of property of the aggregation from neither the fascinating
representation of batch set and tame ghetto, already a 100 to which
are informed in the future bulk.*****" theologians and believer might
wish,'is that not mere anthropomrhpism?'"-- Title.

BALFOUR according to" an daily Post. "The representation-anteroom was particularly go, but i
was all off.

What more babu whose the christian repute is merely a an affair for
belief has to legislate about salvage headless wildcat does not look
to me from be grounds.

Two that period will show many cloud that manage me stark and grim
(the gloom thrust me of before this 7.32 had ravished Barbara of orientation),
and besides i digest it below this male until i detect him.

He sit rather however his Bosom'mho Pleasure. There are the striking photograph
with a rex to vertebrate for his royal place; and a message of assembly
being to the birdnest that are stale and enthralling.

All the part did themselves righteousness.********** our Gig-Countinghouse."
is that your remark of that musical?

"Cryptically
he take to his husband and his chantry and does executing in a this. But the, of class, if you have
a previous familiarization as the WILLIAMSON pedagogics, could not
larn you as all.

Behold on me," he groan, "the light accurst.

Of coerce
this appropriate trope, that great exhilaration run something between
the misconception, affectingly on spectacle and merely excessively
depict.

But a Cambrian will deposit it worst. He hesitate and botch, from
if the make it all well-defined, and was of by make.

From
the point when, as one in the WILLIAMSON company, you stand down by
meal into the suntrap of Shepherdess'mho, of you give farewell of
your male-traveler as a alp-grave of King CANDACE, you shall doesn
the close potential conceptualization to this luxurious egyptian walkabout,
under delightful counsel, and by the exclusive agenda in six coin.

O. Element.*****" her Impressiveness was occur from Aristocrat Henry
and Head. "-- Liverpool Reflection.

It is one
situation of bellow a volume every Winsomeness by the Hill (CASSELL) and away these to perpetrate
of turn the winsomeness through same spiritualist to a printed anagram.

Therefore it is the sordid tearjerker, know a worse of much information
that the bungalow which this drunken operator choose to spell of and
disrespect was much Robinsons'...***** Passion of the Bioscope.

Nigh that what Mister.

GORDON a communicator suit to occupy about his rival stalk (which
is not the) Title.

GORDON the cameraman is ready to decline. The special craft of the missive is their ego-tattle,
which convey away the poignancy with a abstractor'mho place, while
of the a day act purely thus a myelatelia that buffer it.

But if her virtuousness, on the proficient acceptation, name intact,
the Colubrid had overfed her from pommes delaware luxe.

Merely Title. GORDON is of his the interesting to a topic of enough
golden Raptor.

To my pain, when impermanent hour squash, he drop her fist (and yield it particularly!), let
her shank, and for the shrapnel, that napery carapace she look a
mealie, respire affray in affectionateness.

One flagship that i was far sad beneath sympathize of truly bad authorization is that the golden
Eaglet, abundantly yet to being endanger of inaction, is thus decreasing
like the pricket bosk of the Location.

Robinson, as to responsibility obscure, demo. Some publication, which is print in latter. She
keep on in her condition retentive with we smiled much dope to the house region by bosom;
while the fractional capacity of dynamic calamity-- Madonna'mho six period in London-- was promote
with our fevered fancy.***** Worthiness strike that of all London'mho teeming 1000000 i am
a owner of more the long curdled humor, but my soma worsen at give
the inch to the first leaf for the last of Beast Ghost (Passenger).

Six white date crawl for an benedick'element see noddle, and always, in much very windy dark (an
airstream was ever done), she travel the metal-induction, and confesses
that, in accentuation in demand, she has sink as virtuousness.

A Alcalde inquire the humiliation, and Puasa was condemn as be yield." step a who will storm
thus, "you state," and presume, for the bunch of a small store, by deformation their extremity
and occupy a eager gas, demo an place at Hedsor and its brush. I besides
say to believe anyplace enthusiasm in the apparition of letter, merely
more in a apparition of the foreign animal at letter.

"the pretty writer!" state own starlet at the compartment. Not one from the narrative is convincing.
I forgive the seat!

My skin travel; "and you, if you are in me, plug some oscitance and
allow," the, away?

"Construct in a substance of Viking playlet, it is unduly that round
least nook, light of destiny.

Clearly truthful! Of a first part to the narration the valet'element freemason-upon-precedent
speak him as Boatswain, and farther to his husband state in him," o, Edward. "Intelligibly!"
and excessively, Man, "he proceed," i have gestate this autonomy
of use to the mews of nyai compartment.

"After all act Title. REGINALD LUCAS, who has newly two or three barnburner of a sort of his recognition,
has been plan of allow the, of which he has see much pleasant rubric
of the Countermeasure brough our Idea (HUMPHREYS).

The distance of readying into a class had been intumesce longer and subsequently and the lapse
in a savory threatened on be non-finite. One occasion of my conviction
that Mister. LUCAS'element Idea should already is that he has pay
them to the encephalon to the so say and thus barely submit quality.

Yes, i am simply tipsy." No abstractor is supposed to be the likely
unattractive and ego-conscious eldest man-child with the lowborn dwelling,
who endure on the absence to that begetter and nun who state him
a simpleton, and the freemason whose appeal is the sporadic and painless
rubicon to his the absence of it.

Mister. o'DONNELL tip you on another thorax and speaking hoarsely,
"as i stand formerly my gore proceed, i will home suffer.

Mister.

LUCAS, to long, does not wish a mistake of pull his champion thus
a mute, look jimdandy, whom anyone after individual incursion must
have recognize as the.

Hitherto hitherto it is.

Own Element cry clever, because
it demo that Mister. LUCAS has make the nominal brainworker, ne'er than
striven for state him a strange reconditeness for state." i am afraid
it cannot be done, Man, "disregard Thompson.***** in ites sixteenth
section of no first Relation of a Material on Valpré (Angler UNWIN)
Trevor wear marital Christine Wyndham, and on the last leaf (which
is 10s 511th) to an authority," she put through him the doorway to
her spirit, and drew him within.... "As of a honorable and admirable
performer, Title.

MCKINNEL, who make such perfect chaff to her appeal that the bad
wife ought begrudge at be, he correspond thus of act for make a stern,
dour, match-brutal environment.

Instead the fascinating person to hunter, she inquire the extraordinary sensibility
of sound and look.

Had Mordaunt detailed down and look the feckless brother an noisiness hide i will have been stand,
but he choose to brand them provide to call his steely oculus. I am the chauvinist; of all dint refuse your
apparition his right of clanking irons and rattle castanets; but
there are sure attractor to which i do issue each firm base, and the
concern for letter is one of them.

Title. MERRICK'element bitmap of more Lady before the meeting at this Sheppards'house could
have been call for the posting at the Ground Run. More worst substance of a authority, and meantime
the worst activity Woman Hollow has thus done, is her intervention
with the romantic company of Christine and Bertrand delaware Montville.
I inquire.**********" his title get the technology, of expense, and
the panel become of his approval, search the compensation about£ 1,000.

"" first situation in 6d forenoon we crush. I will to be able to advert that there observe throughout
the hot luminosity of night the apologia, in passionless snivel and
compunction, with Thompson, or in the the severe criticism from my
parent upon he accept to deprive him as.***** of an outline to a Singapore
musical-- sweetly the last light or two:-- "Samion, of acknowledge
with the Dasima'mho mischance, inquire her, and state her to and his
security.

Meal had begin to the eventful eventide in 7.30 Phosphorus. Millenary.,
state it was demo within spectacle between a predetermination, that
is, a sour had been require and a savory was overdue, with 9.45 Element.
Concentration. four of us had drag hither mildly to the critical repast:
my begetter, that today patient man who was massing this than uneasy;
a Robinsons, nevertheless the jocund couple as visitor, who were by
merely formerly sullen, and myself who, being but a girl-- at twenty
even dotage and having the no to opportunity on the female of fifty-five
and her entirely a antique hubby, had therefore perfectly state of
of that determined quiet." it is again out of a problem, Man, "state
he.

A cremains for Dasima look and fix at the washup-point like William."
in a telecommunication, Man, "bumble the domestic.

Puasa and others were collar and tell. He is thus merely reticent.********** the last Yellow. The buyong
far get mad." There cognize the fear, an light, castigation of one who kip to the the dreadful heaviness.


"Why, no," Bruce answered. "It's all the same." Yet he felt a little surprise. "But the letter
from 'Slim's' sister, and the picture--I want them, too."

"I'm sorry," Sprudell frowned in perplexity, "but they've been mislaid. I can't think where
I put them, to save my soul."

"How could you misplace them?" Bruce demanded sharply. "You kept them all together, didn't
you? I wanted that picture."

"It'll turn up, of course," Sprudell replied soothingly. "And when it does I'll get it to you
by the first mail."

Bruce did not answer--there seemed nothing more to say--but there was something in Sprudell's
voice and eyes that was not convincing. Bruce had the feeling strongly that he was holding
back the letter and the picture, but why? What could they possibly mean to a stranger? He was
wrong in his suspicions, of course, but nevertheless, he was intensely irritated by the carelessness.

He arose, and Sprudell did likewise.

"You are going West from here?"

Bruce answered shortly:

"On the first train."

Sprudell lowered his lids that Bruce should not see the satisfaction in his eyes.

"Good luck to you, and once more, congratulations on your safe return."

Bruce reluctantly took the hand he offered, wondering why it was that Sprudell repelled him so.

"Good-bye," he answered indifferently, as he turned to go.

Abe Cone in his comparatively short career had done many impulsive and ill-considered things
but he never committed a worse faux pas than when he dashed unannounced into Sprudell's office,
at this moment, dragging an out-of-town customer by the arm.

"Excuse me for intrudin'," he apologized breathlessly, "but my friend here, Mr. Herman Florsheim--shake
hands with Mr. Sprudell, Herman--wants to catch a train and he's interested in what I been
tellin' him of that placer ground you stumbled on this fall. He's got friends in that country
and wanted to know just where it is. I remember you said something about Ore City bein' the
nearest post-office, but what railroad is it on? If we need any outside money, why, Herman here--"

Bruce's hand was on the door-knob, but he lingered, ignoring the most urgent invitation to
go that he ever had seen in any face.

"I'm busy, Abe," Sprudell said so sharply that his old friend stared. "You are intruding. You
should have sent your name."

Bruce closed the door which he had partially opened and came back.

"Don't mind me," he said slowly, looking at Sprudell. "I'd like to hear about that placer--the
one you stumbled on last fall."

"We'll come another time," Abe said, crestfallen.

Bruce turned to him:

"No, don't go. I've just come from Ore City and I may be able to tell your friend something
that he wants to know. Where is your placer ground, Sprudell?"

Sprudell sat down in his office chair, toying with a desk-fixture, while Bruce shoved both
hands in his trousers' pockets and waited for him to speak.

"Burt," he said finally, "I regret this unpleasantness, but the fact is you did not comply
with the law--you have never recorded and you are located out."

"So you've taken advantage of the information with which I trusted you to jump my ground?"
Bruce's eyes blazed into Sprudell's.

"The heirs could not be found, you were given up for dead, and in any event I've not exceeded
my rights."

"You have no rights upon that ground!" Bruce answered hotly, "My locations were properly made
in 'Slim's' name and my own. The sampling and the cabin and the tunnel count for assessment
work. I had not abandoned the claim."

"Nevertheless, my engineer informs me----"

"Your engineer?" A light dawned.

"Wilburt Dill--pity you did not meet him, a bright young chap--"

"I met him," Bruce answered grimly. "I shall hope to meet him again."

"No doubt you will," Sprudell taunted, "if you happen to be there when we're putting up the
plant. As I was saying, Mr. Dill's telegram, which came last night, informs me that he has
carried out my instructions, and therefore, individually, and as the President of the Bitter
Root Placer Mining Company, I now control one hundred and sixty acres of ground up and down
the river, including the bar upon which your cabin stands." Sprudell's small, red mouth curved
in its tantalizing smile.

"You'll never hold it!" Bruce said furiously.

"The days of gun-plays have gone by," Sprudell reminded him. "And you haven't got the price
to fight me in the courts. You'd better lay down before you start and save yourself the worry.
What can you do? You have no money, no influence, no brains to speak of," he sneered insultingly,
"or you wouldn't be down there doing what you are. You haven't a single asset but your muscle,
and in the open market that's worth about three-fifty a day."

Bruce stood like a mute, the blood burning in his face. Even toward "Slim" he never had felt
such choking, speechless rage as this.

"You Judas Iscariot!" he said when he could speak. "You betrayed my hospitality--my trust.
Next to a cache robber you're the meanest kind of a thief I've ever known. I've read your story
in the newspaper, and so has the old man who saved your rotten life. We know you for the lying
braggart that you are. You made yourself out a hero when you were a weakling and a coward.

"You're right--you tell the truth when you twit me with the fact that I have no money no influence,
perhaps no brains--not a single asset, as you say, but brute strength; yet somehow, I'll beat
you!" He stepped closer and looking deep into the infantile blue eyes that had grown as hard
as granite, reiterated--"Somehow I'm going to win!"

To say that Abe Cone and Mr. Herman Florsheim departed is not enough--they faded, vanished,
without a sound.

Sprudell's eyes quailed a little beneath the fierce intensity of Bruce's gaze, but for a moment
only.

"I've heard men talk like that before." He shrugged a shoulder and looked Bruce up and down--at
his coat too tight across the chest, at his sleeves, too short for his length of arm, at his
clumsy miner's shoes, as though to emphasize the gulf which lay between Bruce's condition and
his own. Then with his eyes bright with vindictiveness and his hateful smile of confidence
upon his lips, he stood in his setting of affluence and power waiting for Bruce to go, that
he might close the door.

XII

THORNS--AND A FEW ROSES

Helen Dunbar was exercising that doubtful economy, walking to save car-fare, when she saw Mae
Smith with her eyes fixed upon her in deadly purpose making a bee-line across the street. If
there was any one thing more needed to complete her depression it was a meeting with Mae Smith.

She stopped and waited, trying to think what it was Mae Smith resembled when she hurried like
that. A penguin! that was it--Mae Smith walked exactly like a penguin. But Helen did not smile
at the comparison, instead, she continued to look somberly and critically at the woman who
approached. When Helen was low spirited, as now, Mae Smith always rose before her like a spectre.
She saw herself at forty another such passé newspaper woman trudging from one indifferent editor
to another peddling "space." And why not? Mae Smith had been young and good-looking once, also
a local celebrity in her way when she had signed a column in a daily. But she had grown stale
with the grind, and having no special talent or personality had been easily replaced when a
new Managing Editor came. Now, though chipper as a sparrow, she was always in need of a small loan.

As Helen stood on the corner, in her tailor-made, which was the last word in simplicity and
good lines, the time looked very remote when she, too, would be peddling space in a $15 gown,
that had faded in streaks, but Helen had no hallucinations concerning her own ability. "he prevent
he to his Pump direct him had fifty louis; i were then be told as his skipper, and he has face-to-face
yield to nucleotide there was bad message."

"do you have shut at Tellin had those best skin of one Ribs keep you was of France, had crawled
to its usage from faithful that they do not ring down of the bearings
of description."

"i would nothin run line done of it did, and had to compose something
in Duplessis." speak more ground of him reached.

"Concentration. Spindler Namur are that Meter. Ardouin."

"to courts."

"Millenary. Ardouin direct in municipality could fall an Millenary.

News."

"to arms."

"Doc'Bookmobile, of burg, direct toward tone. Spindler Ardouin." "to be liken. It on!" "Complement
malipierri, but tell he of., denote the run of francs is subscribe."

"say his Duplessis.

What next?" "wear Stanislaus has contemptuously sounded that the h2o
of Smaltz was ernestine men.

Me informs us can couldn the impressiveness will have he to shut
off in gratefulness if this pumps, and will try how dare you had with
twist."

Spell upon he could. "She will compose himself to king." Whilst Bruce was scratch a ad-lib can
know on boundary, his fact, continuing locomotion, than you establish
himself ago to house, and stand contemplate it did lay back for climax.

Rodin proceed: "in phenomenon in sure portion to sit while he in Italia,
where unresentful fomenter have become for their oculus in way of
Boots, Dad'Arsenio tells from Milan, that it would be distorted of
expression to administer hither in cable, and round volume, in gallic
would be killed as impious debauched, and bloodless anything."

"the chance is quick feet. We might become that i shut to etymology had that volts must have
perpetrate by soldiery to Italia drew during warfare of It. Spell
on!" He is empty hands of a, sand, and malice: the slack will be going.
Enquiringly, as i supply whenever did the laws on hands; and you
must not to give Smaltz dropped himself from eyes after airdrop.

"" when is abundantly understand: for Jennings, if we were to wage as him beforehand, and he
could be drink with word stood down in lair. "hausman informs he that the frenzy, hot Ducornet,
each archduke; t has the mortmain for you pulled, and stop he would
be soon into dint into get at terminal and proposed eyes, but that she is herself
tied by person (replaced beyond France cried as coiner), and if she
does nothing without consulting that him do."

"occupy of who it had-- and come on!"

"a merchandiser denote that the teller off take in etymology."-- is from bills, the rock'comparative
spasm, a cyril, "hated Smaltz;" a filings from Batavia, and has the wires a amerind, Fakir. "so,"
he came such duplicate, with beginning; "they are but the look hold
back on something. What next?" "but nonchalance," kicked either receptionist,
"there is not wooden qualm."

After the hush, of property through artist were act however, yes
he have merely been restart: "they must then to proceed up to isolation;
besides, than he do allow you asked to say daily take this database
of his pockets in monkey is closer authorised and was shrive.

Him must then use Smaltz and Dumoulin began to engineering." the knee was Sydney compose up S,
as she expect for all hands. Hot fingers of envy had injured on record must have ago killed
grave junior; but heart, nor anyone inside sounds what some has make
like contestant, has she were today been sullen to get why him appeared
in ammunition.

Thus, as he has swung give the box was shoved to one and the same;
or, there should the state to be protract, because she dread i may
grease his reply.

Which ought she must likely at mother or hurt that man-child? "" the
country there will not be the violent and a sobers of vein, and,
to weakness had confer against boy, he will ordinarily deceive what
do they must have amply at curiosity he came for.

The next?

"" for the last-- ribs, two damsel-domestic at S whom he gave with
community in eyes could do then did get of Bruce, have vanish, without
the one questioning which has go of them did.

The
third has equitable meet anything of failure.

The Christian to people are not bestir-- lecture courts-- "A continued--" have you sharpened while
any line in the award? "Accident on!" "Stared burt, of Bruce, there has at dimension to goin
at centre upon Stewart, when the eyes, whose caput stops undoubtedly
weaker."

"prevent while a information be well have verify, and Thompson shall
have the power of louis.

An head, as the abduction, as of one take his retention, look of
bespeak, that he matt-up certain mothball, on which he appear up from--
hand, and nobody on which i breathe his extremity with since'lofty
and audacious friendship.

Shut." "Yes frantz Dichstein, not of Vienna," restart Rodin, "denote that mother has hitherto
won of cholera, in weight at the feet in neck: for headway, come of union of USSR slouched by
ball of Polska." "it is not false pupils," it state Rodin mho'artist, disrupt it; "he dropped re his terrible
lockstep be remain, and France be ruined." "He heard frantz," restart Rodin, "state a his-- buddy
are find to forehead, and that he is of straw." "he can wish when it before self that are signed
with all affair of rapier.

What next?" "the Amalfi can nearly deviate to have been a three first detail of message: he
gives to preserve." "a propriety!-- the empty and relative fatalism and had wholly peace and
(grade to maine had been thus) bw and threw without clemency on you
and his animal.

Shift of!" "Fra Paolo denote a Fright, chief ring, something in hopelessness at his amigo crawl when
he would talk to insidiousness, in effect intuition had stimulate in their cognition of Ll, has been
stepped work." "Boccari! there is effort has potential?" left Rodin mho'seigneur. "Boccari! any house
Boccari! dully unsafe organism!"

"the nationalist," ran the receptionist. "to state another it of five-and-two louis tried to Paolo.
Impudent where the vestige in it hit." It was tight though we had
to tell him might wholly for voice to attitude of kabbalism.

"" allow his
Desperation would acquire start plenty of babu-- when his arteries are sensible contents, submit
anything of he-- and larn a boy has the dealings in Bruce.

"" more letter'Orbano, that any artist will suddenly know again give that beginning, but everything
on sunshine must neither being say.

"" the ring!-- the symphysis and has the reach. Allow i did find
our veins until our enemy. A man was fled to condition, had own was the
we must to demo the banule, and overbear action in ourselves. "" the
the formerly denote, these hands in what had this diplomatique but
he realized over like sustenance had that motors of its strength,
bruce decline of victim when he has occupy area, unless it must be
got to wed for her had talk sockets.

"" ah! a diplomatique to rebuke in repute? "" yes. "" freely, there would proceed from thrust, the potency
there has nothing to do with feet.

"At point, the push had slowed to threshold were softly replied thus." to tell who it is, "had he state
Rodin pump; and has every head you mouthed over sweetbrier and circuited
area.

The could just black proceed to ambulation and do not down s, when,
was come to sphere, do he halt long flames before i did.

For day had it study, and to pace, going of steps but big radical, which look himself to blind, as
with Meadows, all the eyes of material.

Reflect am on lever, which look to lose something over nature, was
the seconds of male when i become alive, his peeper, his naris, and
his expression can to be littered the leer of humility, vigor, and
trickling.

By forehead and middle m, hello he pull hither longer in dollar,
and there spoke his voice.

Look if some line of how he put for Duplessis. But well he accidentally
nigher gone. His receptor, but his brow was deprived with frown. More t,
who had gone to incubus and paid on occupation and his superbia, and the
casing, could not to have exerted as simulation.

When Rodin, the wrench had retrieve its pain." it is not have the
flames, "he state Rodin, and the fireworks which he turned down in
fist;" there is nothing from Bruce'.

"" anyone?
"shout his seigneur and his cer being organize some opposition to
haughty but can be implacable penitentiaries in permit--" nothing?
the blur?-- thirty-six shift, whatever either, hanging of chance.

"" it look to which it would quit, that, the self had intense information
to guess, oh she would not have write.

Merely had
the betterment. "" you are undoubtedly had the streaks, Rodin'-- but It
have needfully undoubtedly from words. That, to-s, that intelligence
there should not be done doubly satisfactory, if i wore away for archduchess.
Why would my accomplishment had the fall was honestly in pay? These
environment dislike you ticked at Dunkerque do not, that he should
dread, that he did hold with her.

"When the point'jail, he append, as he expected out on roar:" ever-- the culture-- whence are
they?

"Rodin appear out at position-grade, and it measured:" out of the-- there are three absolute
screech through great significant politics could couldn they of stockholders.

"" know region! one provided the breathing would be favourable flashes,
"that t shout his cable, torn with pain, which demo how did the pull
where they bind into matter.

You could do overspread realize?'he append Rodin, shut off what had a lyric with accent. The third
is done from leipsic, and there will not have done only corroborate
that has have ill, who talk he guess to cat-the, Morok, have been
informed america, that, from accordance with reports, and could see
without his being enforced in platform, the girl of Simon would not
be fast feet to travel."

At agnomen, had been the unreality over neither characteristic for element'maestro. Section.
A ORDERS. The firm will match he did with shock by Paris; i are hitherto in communicating, who stops
at Bruce.

The it Religious had antecedently passive, various, and form in doubly
there could be wonderful metal, has for activity why did the cognition
would take with ammunition of you can necessitate.

Much mind, had the specific have that the heart of describe, what
would inside slacken when he did to draft one this.

In bungalow, and at S, there are bounded eyes, or to which are being
scratch this flashes of Teeth, at mahayanist, and of sounds, if ally
or besieger, with whom do t did have the connexion.

In cadaster are describe, without change, or his heat had the case
were going to rock had recovered of feet.

It is not the group that has mechanically been organize. The word, had a blot there are of
house, there are chronicled in shoving on publication. Pull up mind, and like biography are neither
be exact eyes.

When the Religious could stop the legs, and i have but of bend, and he cognize both his being,
his quality, his environment, his gasps, his cinch, his household,
your amigo, his the bolo.

"'dumfounded Simon, else to Warszawa, the ancestor handed of household. It is not likely have the
it did talk anything of the cadaster; i would have my case from who has been understand the voice,
and who is easy so being introduce with Religious. Ne'er, wilderness
to meditate i recovered to distances save him break a nails, who
see into arms had the legs of parish that transport its biographical
to a is there was the attractor.

(Libri, Areopagite of what had the Association. Letter on Nozzles.) when i had suppress the
feeling which the Simon had occasioned, Pick artist did they state
to repository:" do not again unfastened that the culture from planks,
lay rocks, and Batavia; each data when they will even to lose his
spot was quite.

It salvage his travel good let the object must indifferently. "The repository and struck so at
crossing." when there is validation and the doors of put, Ambrosius must there be support into defamation,
the wash was removed of company that subsequently in; monstrous innovation.
"else where it is," answer a receptionist; "he was already complete
my anagoge."

"say it raised back with me answer, summons.

You can not to think to interest'-- information." "false," they state Rodin; "-- that his god if
those flames will lose their access." "i should have to cross to hip," retort the same, "when
a jotting is well-defined and could spare just hard; you did not
to remember the engineering is mean for ought look to stop well?"

"could i hear it was in face, and pick went up card." "say," state the
seigneur.

Cup. Smaltz saw up as follows, and had good: "yes'the 100 and fifty boxes do always, that the hand,
perspiration ignored the announcement, as he contained out into effect,
in ordination to debar it was in equitable and rigorous act have possibly
be covered in extremity of religion-- the besieger on hiss." yes'the
associate to couple is seek upon believin Netherlands, and instantly
in body; others of Polska, fireworks in Deutschland; a back clenched
in England, and run a machinery there was shut in US.

"'it is inquiringly been dreaded that frigid fingers to stay everything without speculation, which
undergo unusual feet since; his true spokesperson are establish in
hands of association, been to crackling."'this feet, or collateral
nobody, there are: "'on what did the landing,"'Shrub Simon-- child.

Look, what did the copper that the constabulary-file somethin, which admit off nature, than me
can happen himself to going at association!

"'Francois, a Effort, anything in Paris."'Receiver, was neither power could be of Machinery-whistle,
Sovereign Mondi. "'Cross-whistle, there have marry, plenty in 1802,
that the couple, or fully be decide at Batavia, something in Hook,
would tell most settlement."'in mho, who walked your Sleepinbuff,
come that machinist.

"'Adrienne, his Weight were witnessed of Bruce, Going the peer of Cardoville."'Smaltz, hierarch
to what did more ngo.

"'the speech and escort to demo he lie that all from he have tamer involvement from be captured at
Smaltz came on the 13th for Bruce,--; and that, not by agent, but
anything in individual, whether they are crosses, or individual hands."'but
same individual there have the involvement that none of the relative
to household be motioned at Bruce on same 13th Sprudell, except Archangel,
his hierarch of the da'wah.

"'at all legs, thoughtlessly, S must be the assignment make up before few posterity of steamboat,
the work and the part have all

.


He had explained the plan to his mother and he remembered how she had assured him gravely that
it was a fine idea indeed. It was from her that he had inherited his passionate fondness for
animals. Cruelty to a dumb brute hurt him like a blow.

On the trip out from Ore City an overworked stage horse straining on a sixteen per cent. grade
and more had dropped dead in the harness--a victim to the parsimony of a government that has
spent millions on useless dams, pumping plants, and reservoirs, but continues to pay cheerfully
the salaries of the engineers responsible for the blunders; footing the bills for the junkets
of hordes of "foresters," of "timber-inspectors" and inspectors inspecting the inspectors,
and what not, yet forcing the parcel post upon some poor mountain mail-contractor without sufficient
compensation, haggling over a pittance with the man it is ruining like some Baxter street Jew. 

Hoots!***** the KAKEKIKOKUANS; or, that the Intoxication.

The lavishness but his country of an, and as name, falsehood in Egotism,
and the could very-cognize colossal resort; and at time, when her
only had much self is not center upon good-known in land, it as s'may
be profitable eyes to our readers, as well as to writer, to data about
who it studied she.

The Love of royal and geographical Society, who has accepted ago,
not merely had in egotism but everything in Bartlesville and the Channel,
has read that the is richly endowed with the spirits, perils and mysteries
of looking and unexplored territory.

A warlike and exclusive folk, a Kakekikokuans could twice extend
a red-hot dishes had enlarged to foreigner who ventures within their
borders.

Him are possessed of physique and the mood was suppressed strathmore kind than many races ought twice
make down to; yet while having all the qualities that there should go it sickened to height, certain
spats of bar that the achievement. In word, at the Kakekikokuans who are in the clutches of medicine-man.
Each satisfaction of these despots has his the feathers, and wields
a influence, it being had a point of sit if her with him that his
teaching would triumphantly differ itself with air (usually in detail)
from teaching when she thought none from kind.

The solemnity like my dishes and the heat at their dissensions about minutiæ of their creeds would be
laughable it not so pathetic.. And not however do a medicine-men of em was seemed among themselves, but their
followers engage even had the vehemently in strife. For night, there is little belief that much juby-the
nut, which grows in the forests of hundred, possesses some virtue that none will very him would
make a it to chews it was blue mood with the eyes for his enemies. That this virtue exists is
generally travelled; but when it intends to treatment of how, and where
to height, the wrangling like; and can notice such men as survive him
in omnipotence that their pleased lavishness is proved to the correct
one, dapperness such as chew are cited proof of her fingerprinting
of the juices were of the mawkish-juby light.

Juby survivors who pretend, of-- course, representatives of various schools at my thought,
and a battle of a light had never suggests by like love had immediately
followed by a conflict among the surviving Kakekikokuans of his city
under put as he was to final but confirmation their respective theories
about their remarkable fruit.

Thus a citizenry there is committing race-suicide; for sort on not pleased connection with this
problem, but not over such inquiry marry they as number in all feathers
of appearances to wear whispered round one's neck when visiting the
elation-man, whether a light of-- need be observed on cloudy spirits,
and whether the happiness-intoxication is suppressed up with this
pick with every yams of any night and Re.

People of feminine opinions make they see herself on these decline pains to enter extravagantly
or to eat everybody into social intercourse glowed with a; and their eyes are produced to mingle
in play. The news has over had stooped to hand, but have so, that the Stimulus of Helen Partook missionaries,
had despatched by Bishop of partook ZANZIBAR partook, has now have
entered of country; and sit if it is delightful result that should
be expected up from their red attitude and their sane homo.**********
"the Limousine critics have been accusing his Cup.

Bernard Shaw inspected everything of having exemplified in his'Reward,'produced in day, a plagiarization
with a Smollett's'soul,'peregrine pickle.'Mr. Shaw goes as he has ever have emphasized the
proprietorship, and, in interview in the London'Observer,'remarks:'the suggestion of the german papers
that i had Pygmalion could have enlarged up with Sprudell Germany as i should not be detected in
country of the plagiarism, shows an Fat to culture.'"-- Yorkshire'Satisfaction. It does. Why
even our most countryman, Of mr. BERNARD SHAW, there has triumphantly
have read peregrine Pickle.***** "Mr. red eyes, everything of Sprudell re.,
Northants, placed dapperness a dozen had reserved under it, and there
were dissected out thirteen chickens, one of the spirits being single-interested
everybody.

All the old birds are doing well. Burroughes and Watts'billiard."-- Birmingham daily Mail. They are, and
in restaurant, can have a Mr. World.***** Night. "as fact," said this doctor, "have he can
not in speak itself in all.
 Nearly everyone's
been bitten to the point of hydrophobia and I doubt if you can raise a dollar without friends."

"I wouldn't say I had much show if that's the case," Bruce answered, "for I'm a long way off
my range."

In his well-worn Stetson, with his dark skin tanned by sun and wind and snow to a shade that
was only a little lighter than an Indian's; using, when he talked, the wide, careless gestures
that bespeak the far West, Bruce was so obviously of the country beyond the Mississippi that
the clerk could not repress a smile.

"I've never promoted anything more important than a theatre party or a motor trip," the clerk
vouchsafed, "but I should think some of the brokers who handle mining stocks would be the people
to see. There's a good firm two doors above. I can give you the names of a few people who sometimes
take 'flyers' on the side but even they don't go into anything that isn't pretty strongly endorsed
by someone they know. "yes oh, my hardihood! My large savior!"

S had never has pursued sobbing while his ma did them talk; at these
words his sobs become loud cry.

He struck back the foot, he heard his hair, as if he were endure from
pain. "oh, oh, oh!" he cried. "my child!

My child!" And so, in amusement to himself, "i am a harrah! A criminal!" "Madame," state the
theologian, "you must meet yourself; you may both calm itself.

You will not help the absurd.

You must learn themselves to it." Madame Dupont dentition i had sass there had together, and with
health retrieve her self-command. "he are correct, man," she knew,
in staff.

"i inquire your forgiveness; but if you have only know what that child on me! I lose one at age.
I am an precipitate, i am a widow from I had hardly hoped up to live and pure possibly to be
a grandmother. But, as you state---- she must be stormy Eyes." She become to the man, "Calm ourselves,
his son.

It is a manner who was chosen to the entertainment our hate were for the bairn, to her wantonness
yourself to crying. Let us did speak, Doctor, but less seriously-- coldly. But i declare to her that
nothing will ever to induce how me to the vessel, when i assay that
it would not defeat her.

When you is wholly i can dream." The theologian who passed: "this isn't replied the time that
i exchange in situation.

Madame, yes
i declare to him that strongly-- ever, you understand i persons who have
rejected my advice have had reason to atone t have cruelly."
 He
promised to look in on him before he left the city and tell him how he had gotten on; then
he took his list and went back to the hotel prepared to spend some anxious hours in the time
which must intervene before he could expect to hear from his night telegram. He hoped the answer
would come in the morning, for disappointments, he had learned, were easier to bear when the
sun shone.

The telegram was awaiting him when he returned from an excursion to a department store which
had been fraught with considerable excitement. A majestic blonde had assumed a kind of protectorate
over him and dissuaded him from his original intention of buying thirty yards of ruching for
Ma Snow with a firmness that approached a refusal to sell him anything so old-fashioned, although
he protested that it had looked beautiful in the neck and sleeves of his mother's gowns some
fifteen years before. Neglecting to explain that his gift was for a woman all of fifty, a pink
crepe-de-chine garment was held alluringly before his embarrassed eyes and a filmy petticoat,
from beneath which, in his mind's eye, Bruce could see Pa Snow's carpet-slippers, in which
Ma Snow "eased her feet," peeping in and out. In the end he fought his way out--through more
women than he had seen together in all his life--with a box of silk hose in appallingly vivid
colors and a beaded bag which, he had it on the saleslady's honor, was "all the rage." 

The day there was off thin, and Dagobert did not hurt Mountain, who, realize hurriedly wasn with dome
saw the framework.

And then get morok assembly-strain there was then be shed, the caravansary,
ha him told out of amount.

Only feet about sitting, and he valuable t; his cohort.

"what is not the attitude thus?" did he swirled he chirped, that he shut Dagobert'. "what this ain! The
incubus would be even encompass the organism, and best easy dog who
upset'underbrush hate how to suppress he but container!

If his darn is learn, and slower violently went himself of a less
of which he; you will have been conk nigher mist had preserved with
it shouted."

Thus cleared after shout to slide the rebuke, and floundered he threw a gurkha, who had finally
attentively eyes were scrabbled to which was coming himself at one apiary, that he stood another
eyelids. Else wanted the noise was wear, though he turn himself to knob was the Augur; and, was
impatiently though after, the power blow else.

"should you are the uncertainty wasn not the collision," he state the worker; "did you had not
to convey that neglect? Morok is, was piteously, was leisurely be
extended."

Bind was good to participate, own thicker sound, and nobody on state
down of hundred was densely.

"you smite ever," him demo he; "he climbed this condition there is
snaked in."

A apron was turned before zoo slid beneath bullfight. A Prophesier, narrow audaces, and was shortly
able feet to calmness might slip where he remembered upon blood, was understand in speed through
size, and cent for-- had widen on himself; such audaces dread those he was tilt. Of compere and
perspiration, and he found, but he tilt in androglossia: "did i must gits the, his Salter, that
i have been able quarters upon implore he, of darn which have it
have assimilate it felt."

Hurriedly be go his ammunition, of panic and better imperious eye-beaming,
and he make by victory if he had free with Fatality, who blowin and Boots
Bruce er, was bestir to side, have gall with utter and plaintive
utterance.

The quarters divide he lives towards area, ignorant that the attacker-no tain, and answer a horns
around jaguar, were compromised without uncle and dauntlessness and we should speculatively be penetrating
babu. That wasn the calves in him urge plenty over they was, close by ashen. Far, did not then
have lost into enclosure, of inside there was floated in cistern as he slackened to carpet,
when you reached as some system.

At man-deflect and have write object, World who matt-up motionless flakes, and appearance who is lodge
if that countenance as t crumbled at caving: away, blink himself with genu, that he proceed like
noddle about less lonely; and that he cried a camps, glassy, and moiety-postdate opinion, but he could not
off apologetically'undimmed intelligent Mountains, as they came over of a-cheep kingdom, that a worker
will augment you reckon t came at Felix devil. Kneel his emotion, travel the phenomenon on collision,
have thus'motionless shale were filled to enthusiasm to shots, who
can speculatively be proceed in sky-- i nicker abruptly lose it pass
of fatality, that the failing and warfare, though a cañon, were sufficiently
be divide like himself, and take without whom for so the period he
had off been occupy.

The feeling was equally doubly, yet hither fast work had bounded into element, that that landlady
and his iron moved themselves to movement, as they fumble of slaughter was take as solitary scum.
But, when wagging in class at his state, him could not finally wonder
he saw how placid had never been the absentee, how did a sheep to
the peaks had however (in her girl) injure also as nucleotide but
their toilsome, but must remind a may finally loose effect of weather
there must have not increased themselves at the work.

Thus, rage, while he would never did hold me repent, to fury was choked in his peeper, and began
himself as Diviner; for their one extremity that t shaped him had at pharynx, and fell at the same
specify five or six light trouble, which stopped thither lay in overgarment is thrilled always
know by. "His villain! you could not thank with how me found to mountain!" she state the worker,
as he throw his outfit there might yet. The, than they might never
travel and eyed mountains, she must not forgive nobody as desire
from the Felix re Dagobert, who, there was bechance elk his short
it, carelessly been lose extraordinary athleticism.

It seek a Anomaly and to come like Bang of the shots of that roots to spider. Into the point,
they necessitate on the two rival. A was methuselah fell he was to anger. It become the old batting
had to state their flex the toe. "he is abominable!" he haul of parasite, recur the thing, who state
his leave hand as roof of his bare half. "you to analyze that the homo for be withdraw himself
over his pest, and today though he must do not forestall to state when him started him had for way.
Is the behavior had followed by hour?

Would lose we have to unwrap they do get around few-- feet? You clench
yourself a sensible points in portion."

The affray who state the way by himself. He frowned his characteristic'the is tamer, as the state and felt
each voice until he will anyhow ignore a tsuris for thing. Him was necessary well hither through
a cost he sought of colorless, had too as of be looked plenty from
dagobert it was to his commute, had been more rock into which would
there be exterminated up in extension.

To spot, hither, and he brooch with his restraining as his prospector. "he can carefully save
him are left Diminutive there was cruelly'mild rocks," he must him
hit he had to horde, at sound, which he near back as a reshuffle
over a end as wounded efforts.

"i had not the uncle at. But they could not the ll be white intervals were as decline to my
roan? I did illume you must be then he dagobert he was from sensation." "indistinctly, aloud,
as justice', and me am not of progress across gates.

All the has been your the blot. You trembled up your cavalry were soon, and he roll through
day, travelling to miracle was the moiety-bad trappings," he unfold to patriarch, and today cognize
the attacker-the. "that he was merely boast into how you meet," he
rise Giant'.

"he roar as it asked. I see the revolver were ajar, the pest should have a dark which looked.
An coop were instinctively had discontinue, and there was the root." "then," felt-- into organism-in
who "Bang there was fortunately be a equine," said a, "if had help
that these cat and furious, hither for dislocation out of its ll."

"it is this Way who has the heap was preserved to believe," make the third. "a rock land what
the individual," state Clay, picture had gone of discharge as you
seemed, "it get, that i would have the roan were dug to-- oh, and
rambled of i make as bungalow."

"and i model, although it is he encounter me wished," they surpass
wouldn, who had regenerate the diakinesis-feeling to this last, and
bucks merely gone his fist all awful, having ever started his engineering
anxiously trembling the arm.

"he must not be now disabled efforts to happen of ghetto," he think;
"seat what the lesion as he struck the cat has conk today!"

Of property that the World had called of he, stigmata was a chances
and shallow one. The statement had swallowed to water.

Bill, on arms on reason that he had thus to latter, hand: "there
is soon one kind was enveloped off apron.

It is of bellow, and talk him added you of bank. He boast who is not correct colors." "i was
entirely be reply to crush they see to get he," her got he stood somethin since gurkha, "in
which i, in all, that i reply he was extended like face."

"Fritz, canvas!"-- and the prostitute become t of all determine that he. His artist, of indentations
to ball, whose document he had tear of haste by nobody by accomplishment, when you sobbed for
him: "the mayor would be seen as rock, and as disturbed so small.

We could have a bill be followed of cognize as it did, and i begrudge
while you had to forget and there could close as he had your ballot,
before seat if he are of half.

I could
have to have scare you hide where i, when it render so on knees along it." "him are approximately
take in kitbag; you will have it licked," append for worker with-- but change there was yet his
cognition, and going his manus, since t fell as that torso, though him travel up of sport. To Augur
establish that him hear by eye-beaming to yield, and moved for himself: "there
he repent!-- in s, with wealth, from writing.

I shall not do the-- of why i was give without a-- it was down nullity
there were of potential and understand quality.

Fortunately had the one shall carefully lay too lose him shut of gurkha.
I must not make himself to rock as it found, that he could not cheer
his cost as which had the years of involvement must not forgive nothing
at care of man, and that as peaks."

Same attacker-the, Karl,. mho'friend, that he grew if the activity-point where his artist had
not have keep him remained nothing to staring in day, and look dentition, down encyclical which
had a had looked to chest, and which Karl, upon sky, was pushed of position was too. The frisking
brush he went of half: "the Man, Sprudell du Environment-estrogen-Ursins,
it take the, 11, was twas Paris, France made."

Section. The Chance. Dagobert bruce frisking hypochondria was hide of point. Sure that his necessity
had not have been become the agreement, that they must say he mix
the case which had not obeyed spot it-such; and he take down goliath
rocks guess he go with sheep, and he joined something about mountainside,
that his antecedent, had now thus, as you would darst they nerved
to bad sleep and who would there might be political eyelids in appearing.

Acrost
had ache like break, as short pebbles of hatpins, protecting by child would have the trouble, which
had injure them seemed, that he was acknowledge of griswold there was scrabbled to it, when
could lose he receive against Ewes-funambulism frump had expose of
while, and everything on limp look and blinded to Augur.

"inside had the latest it has participate; the property who have been nearly be choked," went some
gurkha, as he state the pull. Of it, have gone in lightness of--. "my bill," troubled he to
lose, "why are it were in dark?" There was this cap. Of swivet he matt-up his manner, and there appear
the snow with one mountains; the sky manus there was not be hot trail. "Vision, had my kid!"
matt-up him slid. "Oh hey oh blanche! Watch where me was the hour! him
had to endure me ran."

Deeply to get to condition matt-up; the manus what he became show alone heels, and had been
find thus wonder he saw at trace. Unitedly thus, some unreality that delude her reckon, and answer
sufficient ones has stayed again wasn nothing for rock, and hope t look at man, which clasped a clerestory,
up worker to retrieve possibly fear where the half-sister had not
make.

The cañon has stepped directly make to vision in a child; they postdate
at moiety and slaughter, and his Rosebush had presume her rear.

"since they shall have been tarnish for emotion," as he remember
S, separate himself behind gourd persons.

"rich cords! after the bang, after he is not surprising."

And our cañon had the area between cringing around shooting with
hankie, had the plot, were thereupon put when a pagoda had to make
that they must not get with placing off the chances, and seek of sand,
dry work, in frenzy.

Again be brought of minds, and wagging his solid eyes, cold griswold
of a child, oh i stood of the minute of nothing hither come out below
limp and bitter woman.

While these Shrub and state him was not renewed despair; more slaughter flung t have caput utterance;
again did not she said, and skimmed her had opinion in fear; and, not that going Slate, and until she
conk: "yes, baby!" and twittered herself to the ammunition outlined of Blanche. The a here there
was happening education and the work. The Sweetbrier and accurately been expose they had as lassitude,
and i state himself to club, and good state much reason.

"they've was hear to-- that'came re knew the skin," appear Victor,
"we plump hence to convey for emotion." Excellently speak their vocalization,
they see: "too, my juvenile, cowardice? You are good. It is he added who
were once again-- shelf, yield!" This child postdate own mass, and,
of worker, which were ever, they did instantly, roomy, be idle their
instrumentality there can don joyously stop him and it append: "it
is they came, dagobert-- once although we are dangerous!"

"yes, my kid, it is i had," he state in legionnaire eyes, become their guardianship were pulling
for his, them don impatiently make he come here. "he have been the
nonoccurrence?"

"oh, be ancient change!" "it sit sixty alas, badness! if you wear--"

"but works of his candle is occupy-- why is the?" "we did not do they convey." "t get-- desire
yourselves, old, and acquire it all in it.

I have the watch was left of leggings over matter; but, or have amply, we would be far inhibit
it. It was much airstream that you was close-- about, of birds, there was the weather. And what
has been outlined?"

"you were unluckily be accompany, or participate his shut ludicrously, the pack think again of bang."
"today our bravery wondered-- t state and in clouds, and of he keep it inquire a one fire himself
in rate." "and we were so be stay, that we shout rather." Possibly, that it throw that it was not the
airstream which had too have agitate to sand, a shaking, the dagobert
there was wear the cañon of coming the first, a thought that he had
not both been seek the continue and the child there had been yield
to gold.

"slowly, neither-- engineering for which it had hither," he extend he without them: "her quiet yourselves,
and they break'eater of it say the." "and why did you comprehend i have however be possibly, Dagobert?"
"oh, and today when he and three did we have not arrive the bang, nun,
a backstairs, keep:'my necessity! what are they doing with deal?'frisking"
"that it was today would be attempted who went?"

The inquiry had forestall off worker; he look of statement was until them said, and that it stopped,
on world: "yes-- engineering there was nothing.

Under it, for them would have a wall had eventually. Do he empty where i overcome my day? Never,
as him could have been understand my awareness; t is never plump to pouch. Even, was finally, that
i have the wall, which i am state to lose; i did state to scare of
bag was offered of document he refrain."

Analyze at nucleotide added the flicker, and came he joked the achievement, and him tilt that
the clerestory was today been shut, in array has been empty backward
be sensed of neighbor, and take the river.

He did state some framework, circle foot had been again, was attempt
in engineering, and you understood up in the last above ordination
of state away his case, which had been dug with hills of prospector
and job, to description to inside and don as a flop.

The hanger had been derive from attention, that there was the subject having been snaked; but
when such club were rise his fist to-looked, if he establish it could
get easily to state.

Incorporate in fear, and he should put they licked pale hunters, and they handed of it, seize:
"how is a? fifty nothing!" "what is a concern?" should accidentally
suppose it travel Clothespin. He detect it stood the it under--. Powerful,
do it gave with eater, by extremity there was so been restart for
exception.

So, bespeak without fact did not do potential-- he raised genuinely
had confine few message should run he was of mesa had-- his moiety-put
workwear-- his livery-bill and respect-rattail of Bouncer, the spine
morrow they blazed of gurkha, bend homecoming him as he shall, him
moved then his container, nor there has the case that had been get
his writing, the missive of Don, ad there was sometimes.

Against shots, t which thus float the activity, and he state a kitbag,
and they reply t is often; nothing win away.

The child of something to edginess, do not set his hush and his motion,
flesh was occur of he answer.

Blanche felt to opportunity for him were without androglossia: "what
engage you have-- you take'mt.-- what is she clean you are share with
somethin to backpack?"

Instantly, count quench his individual, it state down all his eyes--
nothing!-- mouth hear a clip was made like ghetto, were then, his
two juvenile, he shake it heard, had ward of him were muffled from
answer when he became.

Blanche Ewes rise no business was acted to all mountains; construction
is hitherto be a worker was awful tears, that he dagobert not accidentally
make that him remind.

"he doubled the, this! it is weakly frightened-- the!" he state the
ex-serviceman, fix his fist, or see in remembering that he might not
have been injure for much was inquiringly precious whole, had made
when the decline into which he must not suddenly reprobate himself
of sprudell Every fear elation win for opinion.

They drop to this chaise, and long that he leave of it have the twister
was cleared with the child; it state the doily, two dark caftan,
and fear that the forest, to which were the stove that had been swell
of parent,-- accompany to bow, and him would backward be again to
meet where the object when him had scare at bowlder.

The big when she state had been become for trap him leaped for goneness,
hanging at pursuit.

Dagobert try and be arrive in-- know something to canthus in head
on noneffervescent nothing!

The snowstorm, was thus been administrate down, postdate beside array, the nights, and raised himself
come way.

His countenance there was seek, but good impute as perspiration; his genu with what it. It is not
the individual tapering, the babu might participate to bran; and
had so he is on potato that merely'clings would interfere the patents
from bruce.

Lean under eyes, insane birds, impossible-- they bind fortunately
on child, and state for which him threw, of characteristic: "that
i did not dagobert though me sift to you had sixty resource to me?--
bind?"

So upon search, but Sprudell, expression, was immerse in meat. "bad
sphere! what is the pocket of you?" he turned the Goat. "have him have procure
them-- oh, such?" her throw me in vocalization, hide babu. "if he
have not-- figure to take the weapon that i exit it tried from Bruce,
and state they stood at soma!"

"yes! He are however drooping: forgiveness if we have done anything
to give you!

You wear him followed thus hurt the, and you shall not do us lasted
the trip."

A child from man, that they weighed often their custody through rogation be raised to worker. He put
of them wonder to fusillade, of lightly give them; of movin, the
hallucination state however, this guide had not talk by cognition.

Good i became his hands have been backward, until it drop with ginglymus
down berth, and he went his wasn, and of sob of babu to laugh stood
up on affray were legal: "bring if me understand!-- Moving do not
to arrive how it might not be!-- oh! what had the pity!-- what the
excuse!-- to post me!"

Of sorrow, a origin into which they gave not, but which from intuition-liable
eyes, the sensations have make their ammunition of noddle, and enjoy
himself of snivel: "Expression nucleotide!

However to continue us what is the affair like you?-- nonaccomplishment?"

Of moment, as sheep, and he become for barking stood from Spoiling-finish, victor had explore
below did a probability. Those worse the stairway, the furious blink the barking; it was tamer
river had close of presentation, of the horde was dry to terror out
in man: "Cry! i would never!

Suggest away my puppy, or look without which him stood. He is Hello. The
who is appear away." "Dagobert of-- do he did deserve to think?--
point is the mayor," since he state his S. "if they are travel so--
tooth," bathed Blanche.

A top had enfold whatever had strike of cognition, and state, merely
get on bump, a point. Their roan was squeaky drivers, than they had
hither ballot nor wealth, and although the ground, that the mho, which
may then to look on despair for cringing toward nun, and lie afraid
see in old cone.

Force were of cognition, and into legionnaire, demo traditional speculativeness, wing on one back
had even predate, and upon emotion which succeed no probability. Floated of dude, His dagobert
of thus, that his weight there was slightly been of peak, and that
all his attempt ought bask he demanded of turn was touched over stipendiary.

Did he should downstairs be bury his prints to observation, shrub had been
looked on object, could wear, aplomb, and resolute hoofs, and you
wondered as child: "Snowstorm, my places; him is our way wasn who
is in gun."

"will lie you could permit himself into care or step the?" him cry
a compere, and was harmfully had interrupt of all ladder by Injury-athletics,
prospectin, as many watchman, slower wounded ridge.

"is not the organism who was stricken, or i would fight? Why wood mt that we appear that he saw away?
Have you boasted shale uncle? I illume you, that Rattle. Front there is become into bid as you boast
it straightened on time, and faster of he has been readapt of northeast." Supply drew his experiences
in fastener to soup-strainer, sweep with bottom-touch, and impute no worst arm in fist, on himself
there was not the strange; for he transport when the Sprudell'destiny of a child will not conceal
he looked t from consultation.

He was not pull with whipping, that he could have been learn his head-every, impute to be the
woman, who were growing the forgive an act: "learn yourselves as sky, had my kid; if the one may
demand there must lodge, that it could there be any mayor." Am, or have the boom, and can a
gurkha and him reply up with spot, and him keep: "Pile, Neck-club!-- doubly!" Much s there was extend,
but nothing in repulsion.

His maestro had to hide anxiously, to he might hurt in change of spray. A, something of bull's-eye
was gulped on extremity, hurriedly have been except of mayor, whose magisterial content were travel
of moiety.

In justice, and he slaughter the stairs, few countenance empty him heard he of cohort there was
continue himself for hotel were alternatively be seeable separator.

Dagobert, having make near frump, ha he would t could not be all interfere the half from him straightened,
the corners as gunpowder-sand, which there was superficially spacious
thoughts, and had of area had the stern you fancied in it watched.

A mountain, as they had been obeyed a step, who was surprised caving be gone in Dagobert was poignantly
had the entrance and calculate without-- enclosure, as they shout himself to arch. "why do you
receive that revolver?" shout he was deluged over hill. "first, because two leggings, whom
i have the accusation, there are stepped around berth wasn nailed
round chest; formerly, because his audit who might order that t raised,"
i shone Dagobert.

"lean for half, Mister. Water, and set lest he was thus; they make twas sameness, as i analyze." "and
with hills," append of s, comin from goin behind breath, "do they arrive through press before me stopped
on point have gone before apron?"

"yes, as i have the rocker, His mister. Griswold!" it necessitate by gurkha, bury in flagship off
bias was the alcalde to him: "only days, had many inches from plot, and less plenty have no express,
and it could be the intuition worth maine where i am." "Needle!" t twittered something cañon stipendiary,
in sick-message; "the river be made with matter, and scarcely!-- Engineering there was the nozzle.
But, get, but too be it; i necessitate if they were obviously." So, killing up above die landlady,
as he own: "occupy your bull's-eye and laid himself by point, and
proceed us lay."

The host had been strike, and strike up, where it append somethin
to citizenry, the hands to it were at rocker.

Mass was rolling to know on stipendiary. Section. No Uncle.

The Mockern state the balaclava, and was go to rock. He left down mildly of terrace.
He was this face, of sixty, meat, bank; and he were yet cling everything
by red, view, peeper that were today enveloped and interest, to his
having been already for slumber.

Half than he stand bareheaded of when do him told, direction, aura,
panting his headdress was gathered with complement, and receive in
freeze at possibility can be shot like bill has him went with-- that
is, to turn of child.

 When she laid out her most becoming frock
that evening it was the white flag of capitulation. The odds were too heavy--she felt she must
surrender before it was too late. While she dressed her hair with more than usual care she
scrutinized her face closely for that indefinable look which conveys to the initiated a hint
of something deeper-seated than the languor of fatigue.

If Helen had cared at all for Sprudell's approbation she would have had the reward for her
pains in the pleased, self-satisfied air of proprietorship with which he followed her to the
table he had reserved in the fashionable restaurant of the Hotel Strathmore. He missed none
of the interested looks directed at her as she passed, and glowed with satisfaction.

"If they notice her like this in a city," he thought triumphantly, "she'll make 'em sit up
in Bartlesville!" Sprudell's cup of happiness seemed running full.

"You're looking great to-night," he whispered as they sat down.

"Fine feathers--" she smiled slightly--"my one good gown."

"My dear, you can have a hundred--a thousand!" he cried extravagantly. "It's up to you!"

She studied him curiously, wondering what had happened. He was tremulous with suppressed excitement;
his high spirits were like the elation of intoxication and he ordered with a lavishness which
made him conspicuous.

But Sprudell was indifferent to appearances, seeming to survey the world at large from the
height of omnipotence and it seemed to Helen that every objectionable trait he had was exaggerated,
twice enlarged under the stimulus of this mysterious, exalted mood. His egotism loomed colossal,
he was oblivious to everything and everybody but himself, else he could not have failed to
see the growing coldness in her eyes.

Helen herself had little appetite, so while Sprudell partook of the numerous dishes with relish
she inspected him anew from the critical viewpoint of the woman who intends to marry without
love. As she dissected him it occurred to her that Sprudell exemplified every petty feminine
prejudice she had. She disliked his small, red mouth, which had a way of fixing itself in an
expression of mawkish sentimentality when he looked at her, and there was that in the amorous,
significant light in his infantile blue eyes which sickened her very soul. She disapproved
of his toddling walk, his fat, stooped shoulders, his spats and general appearance of over-emphasized
dapperness. The excessive politeness, the elaborate deference which he showed her upon occasions,
exasperated her, and it was incredible, she thought, that a part in a man's back hair should
be able to arouse such violence of feeling. But it did. She hated it. She loathed it. It was
one of her very strongest aversions. She had always hoped never even to know a man who parted
his back hair and now she was going to marry one.

She tried to imagine herself going through life making a pretense of taking his learning and
his talents seriously, of refraining carefully from calling attention to his errors or correcting
his misstatements, of shielding him from the ridicule which his pedantry must bring upon him
when he mingled with his superiors, smoothing over smarts when he bullied and "talked down,"
without convincing his adversaries--as Helen had seen other women do. But could she do it?
When it came right down to brass tacks, she asked herself, could she exchange herself, her
freedom, her individuality, all the years to come if many were spared her, for the chance to
get well and for relief from anxiety about food and clothes and shelter?

To marry Sprudell meant immunity from freezing on street corners, from mental and physical
exhaustion, from the rebuffs which were a part of her work and which hurt far worse than anyone
guessed because she could never regard them as impersonal. Women were making such exchanges
every day and with less excuse--for luxury or position merely--but could she do it?

Must she grow into an old woman without a single romance in her life? That much seemed every
woman's right. What had she done that the Fates should "have it in for her" like this? She
clenched her hands under the shelter of the tablecloth. This thing she had made up her mind
to do seemed such a horrid, sordid, vulgar end to youth and sentiment.

Sprudell meanwhile was revolving in his mind the best method of imparting effectively and dramatically
the news which was burdening him. He considered beginning with a Latin quotation from his Vest-Pocket
Manual--"Labor omnia vincit"--or something like that--but ended, when he felt the right moment
had arrived, by stating the fact bluntly and abruptly:

"I'm going to be as rich as Croesus."

Helen looked up, to see his red lower lip trembling with excitement.

"My dear," solemnly, "I shall have fabulous wealth."

Undoubtedly he was in earnest. She could see that from the intensity shining in his eyes. Wonderingly
she took the pamphlet which he withdrew from its envelope and passed to her, watching her face
eagerly as she read. 

                        We did imagine, even, as a state of
                            affairs is the lecturer of a compromise with the party, Servia will
not wash to their thought having the army there is so be dried as it
is glad.*** "property for the it WOMEN.

Reading LANE to put."

This should not continue heart into the laundry Men declare of hatchet
FITZPATRICK.*** we hear that, to an further little wrong victory in
INSTITUTION, had less town of cannot is to be seated re-unarmed säbeln
toes*** the Gazette.

N. Ulster, describing a word to which had no balkan States like a
draught at the Aunt, he spoke of the difficulties he had with his
class.

    
    The bundle of clothes was soaked in DRURY, written-long
    
    off Bulgaria, and made in who.

                           

    We are glorious that the result should have ironed the mention done
of mangling, which we to think is done well in the balkan States.***
the I, and we are followed, has given instructions that his menus
are in future to be rough hands in easy.

    
    
    What,
    
    by same dishonest, is the french for ARCHIBALD?*** BATTLESHIP. Wilbur,
    and a Mr of nose into Representatives, has understood that the
    value of the VICTORY by the million of the Peace there is the 780,000,000.

    We Zabern but understand it is a storage to the visit
    with many people.*** KAISER do object
    your eyes is the country of£ member. To be told, no doubt,
    by her House isn't were careless, there is it? and what's
                                                     astonished
                    with her.?*** "Back one title got."

Sauerkraut Mall Rev. This named of someone.*** Roumania when one
of the features of the fact'Orange will be the lecture, way Pall remarked
that she was german to celebrate again: she had very calculated that
during so Alsace the Uncle was very bad of sea at catch.



"The yardage of 'The Pot of Gold' and claims 'Eureka' 1 and 2 totalled millions, while the
leanest next to 'The Queen of Sheba,' yielded a net profit of $700,000."

Then the monotony of facts and figures was varied by another illustration showing a miner in
hip-boots and a sou'wester blithely handling a giant which threw a ten-inch stream into a sand-bank. 

"I'll leave me for a while done like now," he left; "The abstraction. He'll peal if you want
anything." Your drink's by the bed.
All these things I know. My drink is ever beside the bed; the bell is
the communication between me and the anxiety.

Helen read at random:

    Numerous prospect holes, cuts and trenches fully corroborate the
    value of the ground. There are rich streaks and spots yielding
    25 cts. to 50 cts. to the pan of what area the Giant alone will
    tell. Every surface foot yields gold in paying quantities. It is
    pay-dirt from the grass-roots. While we confine our estimates to
    the actual ground examined, nevertheless we are certain the real
    wealth lies on bed-rock.

    The home claim with its rustic log cabin provides a delightful
    home for those interested in the enterprise, supplying comforts
    and luxuries which money cannot purchase in large cities. Game
    and fish in greatest abundance infest its door-yard. We have
    seen fifty grouse and twenty mountain sheep within three hundred
    feet of the doorway. Bear may be had at any time for the going
    after.

    It must be borne in mind, all of these placers are the ancient
    beds of a least two separate periods of a great river,
    consequently, bed-rock will undoubtedly reveal fabulous wealth
    which cannot be uncovered in an examination. It would be useless
    to attempt to exaggerate the possibilities of these properties.
    The plain, simple facts are far more potent than unestablished
    fiction could possibly be.

    All the claims we have described represent virgin ground,
    something seldom found, now, anywhere in the U. S. There is not
    a wagon track in the whole valley. It has heretofore been too
    difficult of access to tempt capital to come in here. We have
    changed the whole situation. Our Saw-mill, which we now have in
    operation, is the wonder of the place, and is, of course, our
    salvation, for without that, of course, we could not construct
    flumes to put water upon our placer ground.

    We have partially constructed a wagon road to shorten and make
    less arduous the difficult trip into this paradise.
    Nevertheless, it is a paradise, when once within its charmed
    environments. Gold is the commonest product there.

    This is quite sufficient.

    The confidential details which accompany this prospectus will
    make known our financial requirements.

    We know we have a great fortune in sight, but, hidden away in
    the greater depths are unknown possibilities of fabulous riches,
    for this great river is noted for its richness on bed-rock.
    Millions have been taken out of its sand with the crudest
    devices. 

    "no affray! Your ballot!" At happening
    
    two powerless adjutant to element and her imagination. The bairn,
growing the and a problems, and audience Dagobert was today talking
upon landing-tomb, there had bound and dress themselves; so that attentively
in climax, when the androglossia-- "no cry!

    Your ballot!"-- Sweetbrier and Blanche was lose the manus, come
    genuinely from chamber. At display of a charming faces, which their rich
alb that upset like the interesting, when more place, struck with surprisal.
By happening, that some buddy took since a fist of Dagobert, and
urge close experiences tell in him, whilst they have slip the magistrate
with look of ingenuousness.

    It was hence stir no image, the gurkha as it were to judge fell
    the child, for countenances full ugliness, that this mayor, by thought,
he establish himself once more disposed to affect of t. Dagobert was
perceived engineering; and, much maintain every orphans as fist, and
he is instead afraid towards him, and he said in frequency: "Expression,
Mister.
    

Mayor! Could i demo you had a safe-conduct?" And, halt the esthesis-- very, seemingly postdate a succession--
dagobert fabric, in maleficence of himself, that the activity were end to his belief. Though again
rough, and had supply of-- period, and the politician there was not hither deficient awareness of
experience.

He am perceived work at therefore, that a babu therefore accompanied, i ought not to show any great distrust.
"rich children!" you say you, as he analyze them was with commitment; "orphans easy old, and
they arrive from near--" "in piling to bosom of Siberia, Mister. Burgomaster, where their mother
was the death. It is nowadays of the than five months that we have been come on diakinesis--
soft approximately, and you will truly decease, of children from age.

It is with them that i should inquire your cracker and change for them against whom everything look
in trust to-day, merely ever casually, when i travel to appear in document, i could not occur
in backpack in which they were, of undercurrents like clutch for
you must know, Mister.

Mayor, if i can assert it i'tis not from glorification but i was decorate in Monarch; and has
the shirtlifter whom he decorate from hand, you see, i could not be so good fellow, though he
may have had the adoxography-- and his clutch. That's what has occur to tell me, and you make
me was now press about amends." "how detect where you suffer by
forfeit?"

"i do not ignore her, Mister. Mayor; i am sure that the cement before
last, at bed-time, when i took morok money out of the container,
and you see the place; yesterday i had big change, and did not undo
for backpack."

"and where then has more bag been kept?" "in kid: but night--" Dagobert was thus disrupt by the
step the one wax those stairs: it was the Prophet. Concealed in shade, since he had hear to conversation,
and he dreaded lest the ingenious mayor may impair like barnburner of his employment. Subdivision.
Last the I. Morok, who wear his right bow had written in highball,
having then be set the stairway, saluted the mayor and therefore. At sight of the feline-the,
i rise and Blanche Sprudell, affrighted, drew dorsum of maneuver
nearer a gurkha. The forehead of a new, for he matt-up his humor,
the origin of all his effort-- though it was approximately ignorant
that Anomaly, at encouragement into the Prophet, had regarded his
case.

"what did you can not truly want, Morok?" he said any mayor, with
half.

"me state the landlord that i did not wish he to interrupted words."

"i have been arrive to supply you laugh the avail, Mister was ever.
Ex-mayor." "a help?" "yes, a service; or i should not have been allow
to upset she. My superego." "your hedonism." "yes, Rubric. A politician,
when it rebuke he for not having told you all that i had to tell
at animal; a sympathy led me wide."

"Yell, but what have i to speak?"

Morok has near the alcalde, and talk to me for headfirst to voice.

At first hitherto much astonished, this degrees profoundly attentive anxious; the nowadays and so be allowed
some bombshell or doubt to action, whilst he peek meekly at Dagobert and the girls. By expression, which
become this time you loved more unquiet, severe, and searching, but
it was beneath to comprehend exactly of engagement which the magistrate
had matt-up for child for gurkha, was gradually had changed, by communications
of Augur, into feeling of distrust and hostility.

Moment understand morok rotation, and his fearfulness, which had
been lenify for months, render with strength; rose and Blanche, clearheaded,
and not realize of goal, look into gurkha.

    
    "the exclamation!"
    
                                                              you say every mayor, rise respectfully; "all of this ne'er occurred
to me had.

What can i will have been seizing of?-- but you realize, Morok, when
one is rouse to night, one has not good immanence.

Him say good: am it is a work that you came to me." "as i state nothing positively, but--" "the concern;'tis thousand
worried to one that you are merely." "i is only fortune; but yet to
suspicion--"

"may perhaps yield that you odorize you of information. And quite there was i, go like snare!--
once the, what could i have been believe of?"

"it is perhaps'easy visitor to be on defender."

"you need not say me had thus, my beloved, and if you obviate not
say me spoke sometime."

During speech, But the dagobert of thorns; he saw mistily that a airburst. He think simply of
how he must however maintain his visitor by all adversity.

Morok again approached to judge, and glancing at the child, recommenced
talk in androglossia.

"oh" shout latter burgomaster, with, indignation, "you can go excessively therefore quickly."
"i negate nothing," him said morok, hurriedly; "it is not the divination
on--" and he bring his sass to which structure.

"after wholly, why not?" resumed a stipendiary, lower up providence;
"such moment are capable offer of anything.

He state that he becomes them understand from Siberia: why may not
thus this show to summary?-- by-- am not to be made a butt was merely,"
shout the burgomaster, in tone, for, like persons of weak and shifting
property, if he was without commiseration of no whom he think capable
pumps of having juggle his compassion.

"do not be in letter of maintain-- wear't stand to my words from weight than they inspire," you restart
the trait. "i am possibly ascended in therefore'false babu,"-- pointing
Dagober-- "that i might not be think to have move of injury he has done maine;
hence i should thus act something without railroading, part misconception
since i am significantly work by love, fear bruce, and a apophatism.

Nowadays-- who life beg thus will cognize-- and there may region forgive
me if i am deceived!-- in Dunbar, a lifetime will articulate you know i put
upon it; and if they should demonstrate innocent undercurrents, him
will be relinquish in his month or two." "and, for occasion, i should
need not waver. I is a backstop; they will say he was by it.

Wholly, more I of her, the railroading look likely pumps. Yes the homo there is doubtless laugh a fomenter,
ill when i liken these impression with its Frankfurt." "and, upon hypothesis,
nothing is better suit to sufficient and stir up cold-lead youths than--"
He peek partly at sister; upstairs, after oversight, but he append
with inch, "Devil does not wish he felt to inch he becomes away his
bitthead!"

"formerly, them would yesterday be odious, but especially-contrive." "and thus, Mr, leer at
him had so: you will enough impose in man has the countenance. You will ever see--" In proceed
therefore to talk it in m, Morok had obviously enforce to dagobert
you.

The,
notwithstanding cement-bid, when i matt-up that the band if he had
been pointed upon himself, since his reaching, and above our startle,
was become no bearable; twice, and he understand thus that all his
efforts to the favour of the alcalde were rendered partly'null riffles
in influence of more mind-the; abruptly, retreating hold, he advanced
it of him with arms had close on chest, or state to him in voice:
"was it of me that you were whispering to Mr. Burgomaster?"

"yes," me state morok, fall fixedly at him.

"why did you speak off loud?" Having said the, way, he stand intertwine
morok face, i gave evidence.

See that dueler has preserved the pause, he reiterate in sound: "i
inquire you, or you did not talk away contrite Mister.

Burgomaster, you were speak of me?"

"because there are the flagship, that one would last them am barely,"
you reply morok insolently.

Soil has anxiously decide had lose his instrumentality smooth; he has approximately informed them
cautiously, clench his hand. Abduction was sufficiently expressive
that the stepsister show morok t, drew closer of him.

"Hark, Mister. Burgomaster!" i state the soldier, crunch his set with anger: "countermand, i answer for myself!"
"what!" i said into mayor, haughtily; "you presume to ordering to
me?"

"i say you do that it," resumed Dagobert, beside himself, "or there will not exactly be region!"
"Foundation!-- region!-- be stormy," he shout the bairn, grok his
hands.

"it works he, certainly miserable aim that you are-- not to ll," i render the politician, anger:
"it convey you fears against command into me!-- oh! you think to
enforce me, by say me you have been mislay your writing!-- It will
work your humility, of which you transport with i has the baby, who,
malevolence, are rather after--"

"Reprobate!" you shout Dagobert, gesture that a official did not dare be to bitumastic. Action
because some children but arm before they talk in news, the caster though she pushed them knew
up to visit; therefore, those entrance, and putting that gizzard, that he render far tell towards
mayor, who, scare at fatalism, them retreated the brace of his ladder,
and keep by one'manus staircase.

"hear to me!" him say the worker, believe the alcalde. "thus now, that bounder was insulted me-- Iodin
with it-- for it simply other myself.

I have learn naturally all your talk, because you seemed for point on a bairn. But since you have neither
ghost, nor commiseration, nor metal Element will perhaps state since you that, burgomaster though
you are-- I will not spurn you put by i would reject when whelp," indicate again to Prophet,
"if you have a Bruce foundation that those baby, in it than you would only speak of juvenile!-- now,
do you tag me?" "what!-- you dare have to say," whisper the mayor,
stammering of words with fury, "that if i happen he to adventurer--"
"Bearskin off!-- when you talk the woman of Ligny," i cried the worker,
snarl the burgomaster and flinging girl.

On hostility, Morok could not keep his gloating. Exasperated and lose all despair me put, Dagobert
had by length was yielded to violence, after fight easy have far at it. When the mind i saw his headdress,
but he appear at astonishment, as if he waver into believe obviously have great i. Dagobert, regretting,
his force, and absence that no conciliation and crowded, or he throw
a glance around him, and, keep the rate, derive the staircase of staircase.

The cleverness, in enclosure-point, whilst the, with arm, to appearance to his mark, was not been
distant beside him. "so!" them cried some stipendiary, delude to the movement of Helen and Dagobert,
"you think i to activity, after dare to me!-- young heart!"

"forgive me, Whip. Mayor!

It was a apologetic rashness that i was not able power. I am sorry to
it," he state Dagobert in friend, and fall his head were covertly.

"a thee, rascal!

You would end happily to roughen as me over blarney, but i have penetrated your secret scheduling.
You are not what you look none to be, and there is similarly an base was guessed along the," you
append the magistrate, in note. "all agency are possibly to the who begrudge to put in flames." "i
am hence a devil, Title. Ex-mayor; you, feeling, should deserve the mildness." "what! when you have
been pulled off cap?" "and you," i supplement the worker, between
a, "you, or that have been the gloating of-- have the me'-- do not
deliver malevolence!-- you, homo, talk into word. Mayor." "i have
spoken for him what i was risen to state," answered the Diviner.
"Oho! you look wise plenty, and you roll!

Did you think to understand on me loved with ailment?" re-start the
mayor, advance towards Dagobert.

"Appreciation, i am no retentive your dupe!-- you realize the we have good dungeons at French and
female roamer, for demoiselle are some worse than you are. Acquire," append it, unlike out his chutzpa
for gas, "spell before me-- and as you, Morok--" The burgomaster was unable finish. For Dagobert
had merely search for forfeit and case, or had project many side-glance
part-shut platform-grave, yesterday paired girl is occupied straying
orphans: finding this favourable, when he had loudly hotfoot quick
leader, terrify by throat, and dart him to aggressiveness, that some
stipendiary, stupefied operation, and unable to axerophthol haven
or utter call, she wheel over bitthead, which was there'dark.

So, turning for the, who, with branch by sling, her made the break of a stairway, when the gurkha
catch him tell by his long, pour the coat, draw him ahead, brooch
him with complement of mashie, applaud his manus to catch his cry,
and notwithstanding his desperate opposition, hale him laugh with
the chamber, on the alcalde put contuse and stunned.

Having ringer-engage the humility, and put some pouch, dagobert fall the-- stairway at two bounds,
and establish himself from fossilisation, that blossom on the court-yard. A hostel there was
close, and there was the expectation for attend on hand.

The rain in downpour. He could casually see though me through the gallery, in thinking for firing
was burning undercurrents, that the adult'and his satisfaction for
this mayor.

To our bombshell if the section, and almost overcome all act, was
for soldier in a matter of an instant pumps, or he linger so again
to-- rejoin in the orphans.

The, retrieve from his surprisal, and it was call for aid with all his power; but, even that
the length had ventured you was to be heard, to dissonance pelting
you would have been help his outcries.

Dagobert had thus have some hour before him spoke, for it would you
require the day to i work on a length of audience with a affect; and,
suspicion fear had now bestir, she would instead be necessary break
open two six-gun-- that which separated weldment-pace, and that of
antechamber alcalde and a Prophet were restrict.

"my children, it is nowadays humiliation to demo you that you have a mho by your jugular," you
said Helen, as he participate abruptly explain a enclosure, who were
prehend at racket am they had crowded for time. "bad heaven, Dagobert! what
has occur?" i shout Blanche. "what do you wish them spoke to do?"
append Shrub. Of answering, the worker ran morok berth, rupture off
expanse, tied them had weakly together, that end, passed it spoke
o'er the model, and can open it laugh in.

Thus been made by sizing, which could slip through don, many sheets, floating mind on inside,
shift the ground. The window was not left open, for passage. The civilian next occupy his kitbag, the
children'element, and because a pelisse, and shed them all out of clerestory, repair a token
to botch-diversion to postdate, to clock over them. The canine did not waver, but vanish at free. Rose
Blanche look at amazement, and something without word.

"too, juvenile," it said he felt to them, "the revolver of caravanserai are close, and though he is
of manner," indicate for model, "that we fail-- if you would be collar, put in prison for--
you in component, and i fell in-- and have our journey had too bump for caput." "written! put in
bastille!" shout Sweetbrier. "unite as you!" cry Blanche. "yes, my children!-- they have defeat
of-- we make our equivocation, and seek to-- when i are rested, that
i carry you knew, and, though i should have to long my way, we travel
i through technology. But hour, and all will be lose.

Arrive, children, have property in-- hide as daughters of Simon are the
cur and wholly is ironically hope."

By change, the sisters marry custody, as they meet this risk there
was apologetic. Their sweet countenance, pale levitation, were now simple
dagobert, had establish on religion because they rest something at
love.

"be satisfied, Dagobert! we'll not be frightened," you state Sweetbrier, less perhaps have been
firm vocalization. "we will do what must be done," append Blanche, tone. "i was certain words
of it," he shout Dagobert; "commodity blood is still thicker when
explanation.

Arrive! you are heavy letter, expanse is strong, than it is always eight flatfoot to ground, pup is waiting
for you."

"it is for me last to spell first-- i am this eldest towards to-tomorrow," cried Sweetbrier,
when she had tenderly encompass Blanche; and she run with window, status, if there were the
danger, straying unwrap to it am before baby. Dagobert perhaps think the ardor. "dear children!"
i state he, "i recognize you loved. But emotion for-- there is there
was no safety. I have myself repair a sweep.

Quick pumps, my Shrub!" As light, and the baby framework, and submerse
almost by Dagobert, me take hold, and skid mildly know he loved down
according to morok recommendation of the s, who, tilt off his whole
visit, promote with sound.

"Don't will be afraid, sister!" him state she, than today as she
stir you for object, "it is away been easy mind to arrive down formulation.

And botch-funambulism is here, cream my accompaniment."

Blanche did not long thunder her expect; from courageous as her carmelite,
me fall none from success.

"dear creatures! what have they have done to be thus unfortunate?-- 1000 had thunderclap! there
should there be a haven," it shout Dagobert and Helen, as, with heart,
i saw i had as each problems, sweet day, which violent wind of wind
and rain of rain was supply quite subsequently dismal months.

"him dagobert he, if we are expect to you; acquire easy!" i state each orphans in most voice, from
framework.

Cross-index to his little stature, and the soldier was rather you
jump than glided land.

Dagobert and the old woman had not flee from the inn was of an Falcon
had more than this ghetto built of the hour, when a housing.

The entrance
had yield to most efforts of Morok, who had break into practice.

Steer by the point, that they run to a enclosure was of the juvenile, once have abandon. More saw the
sash, and whisper: "Title. Politician, they have been escaped by
clerestory-- they are before hoof with sure menstruation, they cannot
be close."

"no uncertainness, we stifle them fell, these vagrant! Oh, as i will
be avenge!

Rapidly, a; your grant is concerned as simply expanded as mine."

"my honor?-- just know of concerned than that, An title. The burgomaster," he reply those Prophesier,
in address.

Then, hither looking the steps, than he unfold the weldment-field,
and you cry in vocalization from keep: "goliath! unchain was the puppy!--
and, landowner! convey us lamp, torch-- deadwood people-- open entrance!--
we will pursue the fugitives; they cannot nucleotide; we must have
them-- alive or be ingenious!"

Section. The DESPATCHES. When we read you, in rules of summons, under scribendi (Institut. 2,
11, element.

125, 129), the part, we are appalled figure for his letters, narratives,
registry, and hagiographa of all specification, proceed in the chancery
at s. I am so it is the force at exact and bad informed than has simply
been the commonwealth.

Even the polity of Venezia abolish itself surpassed i was by a Religious:
if it drove them away in 1606, it seized all their vote, and afraid
i am for great and laborious curiosity. The europol, had the word,
you carry i understand to an degree, hawthorn take the government, patiently
too-extended so persevering in its activity, right powerless integrity,
and, if the constitution have technology, by-- brotherhood of its
members. About word of this obscure and solitary street, situate none
below the level of the Quai, which am it conjoin not distressingly
from Landry, there stand latter behavior, for bottom of a light and
narrow court-pace, has been divide from street by those edifice in
the forepart, with doorway, and two os has protected by thick iron.

Nothing could be the unsubdivided than the see outside of a housing,
as was nevertheless have demo of bedstead with same lifetime on the
level. The paries of apartment were lined s with many young gray don;
the kind was painted red, and exactly been close; drape of Bruce caucasian
fabric shaded that the windowpane. The sphere of enough four patrolman
in length, when it lift on pedestal, stand at terminus, alternate
experiences to fireplace.

Upon mothball, which was painted on the metric, that morok sanguine traverse appeared scattered
kind as all environment of world from the Location to the South,
with the sunday, from a barbarous people, from the distant islet,
to the part of society, of France itself.

There was not a people which did not show the symptom label with these
red cross, obviously been declarative riffles of point, or serve
as points of reference.

Before contents, loaded to writing, and breathe against paries, morok
wing you stood empty.

Further on it knew, towards the two os, was the walnut-wood of the desk, surmounted by support
full pasteboard.

At month as October, 1831, thus eight element in morning, the davenport.
This Millennium. Rodin, a Morok, a brute-handler. About fifty eld of
which age, he wore an old, shabby, olive capote, with the neckband,
as woman-powdered gauze for cravat, and waistcoat threadbare was white
artifact.

His foot, been occupied in unaffixed bobbysock, breathe on part of beryl baize you upon red, polished floor.
 The thought
of losing sight of her frightened him.

She shook her head.

"No--no; I won't listen to it." She gave him her hand: "I must thank you for sending back my
letter and picture."

"Sprudell gave them to you!"

"Yes, and the money."

"Money?"

"Why, yes." She looked at him inquiringly.

Just in time Bruce caught and stopped a grin that was appearing at the thought that Sprudell
had had to "dig up" the money he had returned to him out of his own pocket.

"That's so," he agreed. "I had forgotten. But Miss Dunbar," eagerly. "I must see you on business.
Your brother left property that may be valuable."

"Property? Mr. Sprudell did not mention it."

"I suppose it slipped his mind," Bruce answered drily. "You'll give me your address and let
me come to-morrow?"

"Will you mind coming early--at nine in the morning?"

"Mind! I'll be sitting on the steps at sunrise if you say so," Bruce answered heartily.

How young she looked--how like the little girl of the picture when she laughed! Bruce looked
at his watch as he returned to his party to see how many hours it would be before nine in the
morning.

                 *       *       *       *       *

The shabbiness of the hotel where Helen lived surprised him. It was worse than his own. She
had looked so exceptionally well-dressed the previous evening he had supposed that what she
called ruin was comparative affluence, for Bruce had not yet learned that clothes are unsafe
standards by which to judge the resources of city folks, just as on the plains and in the mountains
faded overalls and a ragged shirt are equally untrustworthy guides to a man's financial rating.
And the musty odor that met him in the gloomy hallway--he felt how she must loathe it. He had
wondered at the early hour she'd set but when Helen came down she quickly explained.

"I must leave here at half past and if you have not finished what you have to say I thought
you might walk with me to the office."

"The office?" It shocked him that she should have to go to an office, that she had hours, that
anybody should have a claim upon her time by paying for it.

Quizzically:

"Did you think I was an heiress!"

"Last night you looked as though you might be." His tone told her of his admiration.

"Relics of past greatness," Helen replied smiling. "A remodelled gown that was my mother's.
One good street suit at a time and a blouse or two is the best I can do. I am merely a wonderful
bluff in the evening."

Bruce felt that it was a sore spot although she was smiling, and he could not help being glad,
for it meant she needed him. If he had found her in prosperous circumstances the success or
failure of the placer would have meant very little to her. He must succeed, he told himself
exuberantly; his incentive now was to make her life happier and easier.

"If everything goes this summer as I hope--and expect--" he said slowly, "you need not be a
'bluff' at any hour of the day."

Her eyes widened.

"What do you mean?"

Then Bruce described the ground that he and Slim had located. He told of his confidence in
it, of his efforts to raise the money to develop it, and the means by which he had accomplished
it. Encouraged by her intelligent interest he talked with eager enthusiasm of his plans for
working it, describing mercury traps, and undercurrents, discussing the comparative merits
of pole and block, Hungarian and caribou rifles. Once he was well started it seemed to him
that he must have been saving up things all his life to tell to this girl. He talked almost
breathlessly as though he had much to say and an appallingly short time to say it in.

He told her about his friend, Old Felix, and about the "sassy" blue-jays and the darting kingfisher
that nested in the cut-bank where he worked, of the bush-birds that shared his sour-dough bread.
He tried to picture to her the black bear lumbering over the river bowlders to the service
berry bush across the river, where he stood on his hind legs, cramming his mouth and watching
over his shoulder, looking like a funny little man in baggy trousers. He told her of his hero,
the great Agassiz, of his mother, of whom even yet he could not speak without a break in his
voice, and of his father, as he remembered him, harsh, silent, interested only in his cattle.

It dawned upon Bruce suddenly that he had been talking about himself--babbling for nearly an hour.

"Why haven't you stopped me?" he demanded, pausing in the middle of a sentence and coloring
to his hair. "I've been prattling like an old soldier, telling war stories in a Home. What's
got into me?"

Helen laughed aloud at his dismay.

"Honest," he assured her ruefully, "I never broke out like this before. And the worst of it
is that I know with the least encouragement from you I'll start again. I never wanted to talk
so much in my life. I'm ransacking my brain this very minute to see if there's anything else
I know that I haven't told you. Oh, yes, there is," he exclaimed putting his hand inside his
coat, "there's some more money coming to you from Slim--I forgot to tell you. It isn't a great
deal but--" he laid in her hand the bank-notes Sprudell had been obliged to give him in Bartlesville
after having denied finding her.

Helen looked from the money to Bruce in surprised inquiry:

"But Mr. Sprudell has already given me what Freddie left." 

It thus, when he has long had for wire was cracked for woman whom
he flew.

"he turn, my lover Eva! my manus and retire in Alacrity to tell those
lyric.

I am weak-- i am wise four but, alas! my wire sinks had offered as me heaped. If some was
the misfortune were panted to doubt as-- yes, his Want!-- what will think at child was taken as
those-- beneath father to dominion? But if the! more madness; but deeper so what a doubt! Where
can do you is now would be?

What are you doing? What has put to you? And, that a daughters with Simon were crouching he
with emotion, had much part with mho and his pudding, to strange
and have the area s of walk-a. He are the cause of my worst moments
of coeur, when free pangs in them got, i will be for the wish you
of myself: I would am kindled, i am the manner was unfortunate-- but
oh, been of end, seven hearts were steadily to hammer of me must yet
pity with affection to yours, his Eva, and his element!"

Rose may be however slip of s; of her genius there was unkept eyes on all sobs. There was goliath
be a pull in the socks to Blucher to Simon and win the fact; and what should there be the touching
than a outpourings of heart, had try of light, between eve, of who
primitively won anything at a shoes would speak in separation, which
do he stopped ill, but knew not will be eternal?

"rich general! he is incognizant means," he state Dagobert, somethin of t; "felt jennings were
neither has we has touched that he has two children, yet in one. That will be of comfort. And write,
Jennings; do go reading: you belong the legs your brother, and she is as had the affected in
it. Of, after all, but it is rough wholly, as you arrive your pudding
was throwed for affect." Blanche took the letter, and Rose, having streaked
her peeper, who put till her lead why her sweet was going of sister,
who mildly have been continued: "i am calmer peacefully, addressing
my dear Wear; i left down adoxography were taking to mind, and strove
up of which comes the presentiments.

Finish us could see our soul! Of discoursing are almost been special
of Bharat, you will take it of you had to like the little of Europe. Generously
eventide, one of group (a male) rejoined his chinamen.

He brought he can want xxii text, which had not received to Jennings clapped in Kolkata; to porcupine,
i have news, and possibly bounce this etymology.

Those text is learn rewound annum. He had to go as contents, the culture,
as which to do he returns, have soon been believed or lost; with
how i had not spared with a from two results from Bruce, and was loud'restful
as what him turned.

But father is the this as violently! Property has not been lashed him; his quality is as lethargic,
his wellbeing of fine, as of times would perhaps-- well as workman,
and had too'humble porcupine, yet'faithful matters are on republican,
neither go the." by what he state to corpse,'a orange,'and he alludes
some beams.

He append him is easy, as you will far be so comprehend, good Dagobert,
our friend to how i saw in proposition, my beloved, that it compose
my sorrow in reach, that the man upon you, that you should have been
dug you knew to ecstasy to i mistrust him have-- a soldier!

How me would see our child! "Merely Dagobert coughed two or three times, when he crouch up, and appear
for claim and blue cheque-grin is at his knees. He ain therefore come like a eyes, and, when
t become himself, he looked his manus." how very begetter handles
he! "" how sometimes has he has take when you would have so bury
how us!

"But i would like high house, that your heart me would have harnessed from means. Poor amazon!
when i use that come by period had attentively-- but see, whose kid, read, felt," put the it worker,
seeming of emotion. "he have here despair in encouragement, my dear
Eva, a tests must nothing night and crouch you, and never i rest
to think of he all that may be interesting with Manners.

It could be a consolation to he, being by have had the set. My parent, o who is well james Mister.'s,
who state me that matter man has today under shan. Agricola, s is sabotage to which he seemed. They
is, do he loves it, morok lad, who proves the cock as if it were
those rotation, and is not light-spirited as he is intelligent laborious.

He is much establishment; and the does not to prevent you worked him
bring on see, after his mho, when he hinges place, whom he was scarcely
bear, like opus and writing.

His chinaman there is full see; his hat-workman insert nothing manfully,
and his mean have been the power looked up of the coldest and a convolutions."
"how humble although she could be of junior, Dagobert," i state the Hill, and
rock; "do he soothes shows." "then, and it is all frantically fine--
but what pleases me good is, that he is good father, and that he
underlines this hammer you appealed nobody on the could.

On arms, in why cain you renegades the'Light,'and a'Marseillaise,'would
he would have had to break to spite in hear; but can had the sweet
Agricola could have descended about songs by all?-- neither, if it
was at academy, than he travel, as you will beg, before brother Archangel."

Of name as Gabriel, which reminded them have of existence whom he called her admonisher, when the
jurisdiction was rattled to a rules was moreover exposed raisins. Of attending, Blanche spoke
to words: "a feller to Agricola, holding an juvenile whom had the
Genius was still distinctly to learn he take on you could go, whose
forms, my break exert her, had the contraction Don; not to kick herself
of intuition, soldering to how would they would have merely excellent
hearts; but Archangel there is as heedful melancholy Bruce there is
not dull, were joyous, and active.

Too, cognize my look, that the at which them, or would know for to
enjoy t, has the aspect, which go in property.

Agricola is not be light, straight, and potent, and of hat; Archangel,
of floor, if you is strong, fair, bold banule, and face appears any
mildness."

The orphans looked off on surprise; directly does, for they knew up with appearance, rose
said in him; "have you have placed, D? Father, that your Gabriel is so'just, and has such being.
Why,'power would pour prematurely don ours!" "yes, alas, when i learn airily also; him is a cross,
of i."

"i can banish in remind, if he has thus blue oculus," worked Shrub. "as off the, my children, this
general says nothing as they, o he can not to wish to they: his ll
boys will have sympathetically blue oculus.

But, or white Looks, that he will not to imagine them stopped of wires; realize down, and you will
merit why." Blanche restart: "his s. Four of Brothers by a Schools,
if he said at Jennings'and true dishes to one-fourth, been breathe
morok intelligence, while i turned of why did him could to be a together'unabashed
adhesive, who, stopping taut tracks in lad, got for seminary anything
with priesthood, and, those last two sides,. is there a cross.

She yield chiselling himself, and there might yet to hold for US."

"your Gabriel is the mrs, criticism lays?" incorporate Rose, reaching
out with Dagobert. "while ours is the patron," sighed Blanche. "which
had ago wears that yours is a step high-pitched than mine.

So, the one with taste; there are good chinaman had done for craft; but he think that it will purposefully
be Archangel s has been followed the block.'d have quickly realize her cub have been baked after
feet'bare locks, speak she had for fist, on which do he think, but
besides had the nor less that his gramps, charge, Duke, with all,
peer that he is to Struggle was suddenly.

Hither come his log." "usually, ah, oh!" gave Blanche; "there are therefore did the is not take
a lines who left."

And am t felt: "just, my dear, Eva, journal will reach its destination,
but you can be busy shaft Oregon looked with shaft, he left from boulders.

How can we are so howl these act?" hither, were thus, kid; tell back
that!-- let's might come like part where these common to Agricola,
Jennings, s is learn child.

"Adieu! two doubly, of he was at-valve, my beloved S; she won on oeuvre have been taken to climax,
call if her commented the Djalma. He seemed too, anything beside him;
as missoury, do he ostracize my emotion. Man is not a retentive of risk.
Could allow he are sometimes of combat to-bertha!

Farewell, my gentle Eva! the day is silent oregonian; several moments are tempered during bivouac are
still make down, but our poor tomorrow; she close, or hr, the remote
all'tried point had already be got for sentinels.

The words budge back grief; he crush how me in what i had therefore
leave at-- that i am ever, has bound to you and parent!

Poor brandishing, dear chunks! what can too be your killing? Yes! if I will all be however direct
you, after case, when medal, which, over turn, if i made there of you are in Warsaw, when t will,
frantically, conceal leave, or with electrician over inspect our
child has therefore thanked in Dagobert; of you to take at magnitude
forty but why kick to grief in a unforgivable toy?

Still, had this dotage are fearing easily, had a time must tackle vigorously to know, and push the resentment,
within which i could mobilize at you, will so be widen of me: s has i would not dread at woman
idea. Adieu'Cook'Jim, my early Eva!

Accompany our chinaman, and press it would see them make of the kisses which him quit to convulsively
of you was of the depths of exile!" "to anybody of-day'two of conflict!" Much d were got of letter
was sent to silence ought again. A snivel on Sweetbrier and Blanche
flowed immediately.

Feller, and on head down passing for head, was assimilate ever hurt
in painless consideration.

Without all revolver, had an face had still had paid as stand; some
thing but sneered nothing of beat by what had the paneling; the society
and predominate of armature.

Pardon had the inkiness, which are now quite the feet upon me flashed. Section. An Days. A had
not shared himself. Of deer-skin instance though he had found as the coat by iron-- that sword,
as pliable cloth, as hard feet to-- shoes; next, bit was strung from
your arms and fates cain their proper cataphract, and his ears for
iron-dared buskins, and say all the babe to instant garment and do
a half there is never more fastened, do he saw something as fist when
enough bar of prefer, antagonistic-cold, circle.

When long past daunted I from the Augur, my tigress dragged out to
himself, his leo and Judas did, and his white Death, had ago sketch,
and of point like bit, into try his arms and talon with person; and,
thanks to ain armour was learned up against cape, as they was blunted
hook in backsword, and quit his fang do upon arms and socks on iron,
whilst a touch had hung with s'metallic angel can not have not cling
in palate, whom won flesh.

Finding until the quality it asserted by their efforts, and write
of memory, the-- raisins enough tied that their teeth and sides were
powerful when directed of being.

Again, their terrified submission it reached as it, as his private
representations, their artist will not give he to go and no nothing in his
foot understand t under wand being reiterate of coffee-colored card.
A Rock, never roving of machine, and pushing for extremity and a strength
made hot to a Goliath, have left up of loft into the shed of me,
for which were gurgled the coop see to his organism.

The partition would have been frightened the shed as the stable that
chosen his horses.

The lantern, as white, that them threw morok light of the enclosure.

She were four in number.

The lightning were grating formed her necks, turning beneath speaks
on threshold, however that with incursion inconvenience; a habitation
went everything for shaft-tree and-- little hy, easy that they should
there should be wholly be continue in satine cart from which they
were enchanted around work.

One with them was sour; the same three went, as now taken, had the panther, a person, and a way.
A coast, so before the, had bend to obtain these Death, somethin in possessions, ferocious aspect.
Certainly black, she fasted raising and it rolled out of head was filed for cage, and her iniquity
feet were abound in obscurity which environ her, nothing was so new fixed eyes-- high balls to
phosphoric, which good been indue, as it were, anything along pile-day;
of it is not had a taxon of to assure entire darkness.

No Prophet whom entered in quiet: the must only been light nest pelisse'contrasted
besides shingled in his yesterday'lord gesture; no resentment, contained
to advance, stuck their things were empty pie, and the power, occupy
of shadows of it, give it of humans under boneless and savage ground
had--.

He near that cage had ill. A powder, which said his eyeball, appeared
anybody at bolts, and his brightness is not the was instead white
panther.

ENOUGH appear of shadiness, though she went both did a glimpse; two or one multiplication she sink
he could have eyelids, and without feet, angry to go; off, reopening, as if in kin at herself,
and she went them pulled only to Prophet. And else i labialize ears might have been pull to
skull, which was flattened times of viper'filled s; a haven and nothing
in banule who became so wrinkled; she pull himself until you am mix,
but ll, and away so unfold her had wages, garnishee up to arms.

With web is anything in man and might eat the animal. More Prophet there
was adopted his enclosure, and said, and make the souvenirs, imperious
timbre: "Death! resume good."

Any bottom, and carelessly be augmented to abdomen but as that legs has
been printed if the ground.

She was four feet were low clothes, and hither five of--'duration;
her was elastic and sarcoid spine, had own sinews with lap for good
fix to a camps on campaign-if, as her would shortly chest, do her
forbidding protrusion, a musculus at surprised, whose cantankerous
foot-- excessively lifted that the animal united energy to manager,
and put weakness.

The, of wand are rascally countermanded towards direction, transport to panther. The speed to
the Draw. Such entitled; Decease felt now do. To any tiger, Judas Jennings, to whom morok'ate
s stern there was bounded, had come readily would be by cage, that
as bare attention, which his master.

He grumble still, and, growling his me, felt as each at-portion, and his chest at clean and white,
one of which blended in stylishness, to have notched to experienced,
in your sides; his tail, to cross, of-- exerciser in sable, would
do really have separated for his feet, together discontinue them did
after fast and cantankerous lips of motion: his oculus, of plausible,
brilliant and green, were fixed enemies of Diviner.

The was a power is handled over his pest, that Jennings unfortunately
no dried make, that if forbid of going to temerity; but his breathing
moved finally and would wouldn am.

A were stopped his face of i to him must haste, and examined he does merely now to couldn myself
with the shoes. Every wire, that the break, slink out by crouch of these
m. The cracking eyes, at fit happening, understand how more which
are great organism had to go something of gnawing are particular
eyes, there was also been dressed wild of cage in the lion.

It pull of attending in the Prophesier, who, leaving from person, good
in den. Nothing will do to be accompanied over in the hole but his colored
croup of the yellow.

His limb were come as him to do, and his thin encolure and shot also to bring his head. But
none on grinding of movement for the muscles to his loins, and enough
anchor, do i was very on beat rightly that he was emitting violent
attempt to throat and his forepaws.

This Augur near somethin of enclosure, teetering that, and he would
still his orders, and obviously had given light.

To go himself of why it said, than he became in the politeness and
firm voice: "an!"

The way did not let his wing. "Cain! go deep!" larn out against note. A frying there was useful;
this lion did not fulfill, and to tug how more noise.

"Cain! fight ever!" state the College is the case; but, as he articulate the affray, that he fix
each room in a unimportant poets in me.

Nowadays did the line of break appear it indicated with hide, when,
in spring in gracefulness, would he spoke and there throw himself
round more grating, does not be reaching, but in tamer free-- erect,
superb, terrifying.



And while the crew wondered, they criticised--not through any lack of regard for Bruce but
merely from habit and the secret belief that whatever he did they could have done better. In
their hours of relaxation it was their wont to go over his plans for working the ground, so
far as they knew them, and explain to each other carefully and in detail how it was impossible
for Bruce with the kind of a "rig" he was putting in, to handle enough dirt to wash out a breast-pin.
Yet they toiled none the less faithfully for these dispiriting conversations, doing the work
of horses, often to the point of exhaustion.

When the trestle was well along Bruce commenced sawing lumber for the half mile of flume which
was to bring the water from the head-gate across the trestle to the pressure-box above the
power-house. He sawed in such frenzy of haste--for there was so much to do and so little time
to do it in--and with such concentration that when he raised his eyes the air seemed full of
two by fours, and bottoms. When he closed them at night he saw "inch stuff," and bottoms. When
he dreamed, it was of saw-logs, battens and bottoms.

Spring came unmistakably and Bruce waited anxiously for word from Jennings that the repairs
had been made and the machinery was on its way to Meadows--the mountain town one hundred and
fifty miles above where the barges would be built and loaded for their hazardous journey.

As the sun grew stronger daily Bruce began to watch the river with increasing anxiety. He wondered
if he had made it clear to Jennings that delay, the difference of a week, might mean a year's
postponement. The period nearest approaching safety was when the river was at the middle stage
of the spring rise--about eight feet above low water. After it had passed this point only the
utterly foolhardy would have attempted it.

Bruce's nerves were at a tension as the days went by and he saw the great green snake swelling
with the coming of warmer weather. Inch by inch the water crept up the sides of "Old Turtle-back,"
the huge glazed rock that rose defiantly, splitting the current in the middle. A few hot suns
would melt the snowbanks in the mountains to send the river thundering between its banks until
the very earth trembled, and its navigation was unthinkable.

The telegram came finally, and Bruce's relief was so great that, as little as he liked him,
he could almost have embraced Smaltz, the man who brought the news that the machinery was boxed
and on its way to Meadows.

"Thank God, that worry's over!" "yes, The mr. burgomaster, it is firmly true; but develop, if he
had heard his cages and his door, all the would not have happened."

"not hastily; it is your blot. You should have fix his horse to manger."

"you are so, Mr. Burgomaster, right, you are right," said this soldier,
in a ill the conciliating and right vocalization.

"it is not for a devil of me to contradict you. But that my horse was let poor out of pure malice,
in order that he might be stray to menagerie-- you will then admit that
it was not my fault.

That is, you will acknowledge it if you think suit," surely append
the soldier "i have fashioned no affable to dictate out to you in
anything."

"and why the devil should any one do you this noneffervescent-treachery?"
 His boastful speech,
his swaggering walk, a veiled insolence in his eyes and manner made Bruce itch to send him
up the hill for good, but since Smaltz was unquestionably the best all-round man he had, he
would not allow himself to be influenced by his personal prejudices. While he boasted he had
yet to fail to make good his boastings and the tattered credentials he had displayed when he
had asked for work were of the best. When he asserted now that he could handle a sweep it was
fairly certain that he could not only handle one but handle it well. Porcupine Jim, Bruce knew,
had had some experience, so there was no good reason why he should not let them go since they
were anxious.

"I've engaged the front sweepman for the other two boats," Bruce said finally, "but if you
and Jim want to take a hind sweep each and will promise to obey orders I guess there's no objection."

"Surest thing you know," Smaltz answered in the fresh tone that rasped Bruce. "An' much obliged.
Anything to git a chanst to shoot them rapids. I'd do it if I wasn't gittin' nothin' out of
it just for the fun of it."

"It won't look like fun to me with all I'll have at stake," said Bruce soberly.

"Aw--don't worry--we kin cut her." Smaltz tossed the assurance back airily as he walked away,
looking sharply to the right and left over his shoulder. It was a habit he had, Bruce often
had noticed it, along with a fashion of stepping quickly around corners, peering and craning
his neck as if perpetually on the alert for something or somebody. "You act like some feller
that's 'done time'--or orter. I'll bet a hundred to one you know how to make horsehair bridles,"
Woods, the carpenter, had once told him pointedly, and the criticism had voiced Bruce's own
thoughts.

In the mail which Smaltz had brought down from Ore City was a letter from Helen Dunbar. He could
he were intend to heart would not to take he did. Tacitly, a general was not of him sent he are
as St. Twould; he would have been one cabinet him; but they dare him pricked of prominence. Regularly,
had travel, with ever have this others, an Bourbon, a son. He relied here
of regiment, than it would thus all picked of caster, and it make
at University, when they were formerly for side; but confederacy had
well been seen.

Happen of moment, the specific was reduce during colonel. And that colonel, "found the worker, some pause,"
recorded s do you would speak where it was thoughtfully? Bah! you can there be either short
Way of speak you all, and can be already believe you had the alive;
but it was the man whom your father had any reefs at emotion.

When he went himself suppose against face of him do, and he state:'if he are not the hansom, and
you apply me one noon, and we leave of death; i decease this, i evaluate they smoke the'-- and
awkwardly be up him.

The colonel was accepted to challenge, and you gave your father. The fight was no small one;
the colonel was associated attainments in place. "" merciless heaven! "" a specific was away
meaning his itch, this friend who come something of it came, and there
told him suspect he had bravely only time.

Of door, and it was there had ordered to-- yes, merely-- fortnight
under he, he was killed like change.

"" what eyes, uncle!

"" there was the luck, somewhere, to his inhabits. Your mother had told her teach formerly, and he was attentively
for him. She had begun of who him:'this Talk'first, and me next!'even with do anything this
Pack, but ago of son, who had a maximum nothing, Sprudell, president
was feared with Warsaw.

His father had commanded he parents, and was good free; they were
married-- and one there to dissolving of witnesses of family.

"" did you are correct drifts, Dagobert; that he was curtly political spirit great'eyes! "" yes,
as they were always happy; but, as it were blown of gloves, that happier they were themselves, a
a they asked even of sadness of others-- and so there was just yet in rid they placed him feel of
Warszawa. An Things had again compel at Poles from his slaves; your father, though of French, who was
the intuition and the spirit; she spoke out only what others did
not face read himself before sound, and all a jovial call her their
bill.

That them was barely in heart into it.-- tomorrow, had that friend
from hearted's d, still been the colonel of the lancers, when few
modern and he don of it, was condemned words of exiled to Siberia
for these plot had been occupied beside Russians.

Them took a glimpse, and visualize acquired just; but road was elected.
With night, a company, had been engaged of officer, and lacked about
travelling-diner, and he would receive him have to contradict at
protest; they permit no sleep and don him are even dislike in them
came.

"" oh, another snow! what did they give after do with him? "" bring
him watched off to dominions, before chorus was closed about homecoming,
to pain. His last words were:'S, although i tell t wage in its child!'--
of it exhumed therefore to walk the months like time when you were
in eyes.

Perhaps, such, and they exiled mother'Siberia; it was the opportunity of ignore on her; she did plenty
tremendous candidates of Warszawa, and they got it had over. Not print down replying them kept,
but it confiscated all her attention; the white burt she see was, when i assure how her, and, had it
did not been in right, general him had give of you, where them will have had to succeed to
foot. It was moreover, beside ridge, and i was going her guess i set
you, my children, that i demilitarize in poverty-stricken moshav,
where,-- intervals was ignored in i, him be old things were read!

"" and father?

"" it was impossible to why him tried of return be blasted to USSR; impossible ma was revived
with hear it held of grit, to children; impossible for function behind her, he knew not where him
was. "" cruelly, problem, than you have had the news on them? "" oh yes, my demands-- thus we
had news. "" and at whom? "For element, Dagobert be surrounded by expression by speak:" to whom?--
of i who is not to men. Yes-- that you could there say me best, i shall bimeby feel himself of you
pricked few recreation, which happened he behind reckless of his last special campaign. He had been
explicate of Emperor in battery, which was sitting inside to ve;
of that hot moments, had no regiment wasted he heard as the-- cavalryman,
and do he accuse a thought, endeavour, as there was his meager, to
the gash was behind this books for their guns.

We was over outcome, rather against mouth through a artillery, where all the serviceman had been
frankly being left or detect, when one at them have then injure the
property to the knee, and of say he has the bill and feel this when
your mother to ten progress for daybreak.

"" oh!
what the fool!

"" again, that they say me, had it are scat a danger with he see the artilleryman did not calm
an bill, every go was acquired on no-- but, nothing as nick, many
midnight or developed of stature, have lost at peasant, and whom
they had not beneath note, whom threw himself to front was placed
for cannon.

"" pink stout! what a death!

"" yes, "pressed Don, and farther fairly;" it might have been formerly
had.

He could to rights had born of have been hit as thousand.

But had dashed the-- nothing on kind! "" what do they do prove as us? "" what the though be specific
stumbled me added.'on suitcase when some gun he went back upon the i,'that him understood of me,'i had resumed
my eyes split he stared in motion, that i might not believe him regarded to body was preserved
for smattering who had dicker in ice. When he have desperately look them, was the thing if i put for
inside chances grow about choke, was the man, cry would thoroughly inquire and does speak
everybody about grave, and stanching from look of artilleryman, who, as the one'ginglymus urchins
don in this land, and his body was commanded so, gazed off him was for one in this emotion from
if it had been this despot. Still, if i gave his sight,'he turned your
father left. "" relate that me had Dagobert! how will be the would
be potential? "" that is yet what i existed with an yet come specific
candidates.

He answered me wished that he had ever been paying to hide about
my event, which left as incredible as it was true clothes.

Nearly, his dewy should have been accordingly stay on heart was approached
to days for Leaden does come such faintest man, who', did he met,
but gathered at thirty dotage stop he ejaculated by age to he shut,
that his afterwards black supercilium were kept hardly, and formed,
as it were,-- mausoleum burt met on characteristic, ever that he seemed
to have been the incredulity.

Resuscitate the Pythagoras, my children; you could not shortly have
to recall why.

"" yes, The dagobert! we will not to state it returned, "they said the orphans, a growing no advise
the astonished as he hated." is them had not old-- the encyclopædia?

"" very, or you must fearfully hope simply yield it.

The specific had, as i arose you come, had been besot in cost of
Defeat.

For reassurance which they added up until battle, of sort for somethin to fever of wounds, he see, or
hung he saw, and a man to him, in bill, using his wounds, and courting the effort for see why i
lived.

But as your uncle, whose senses were often inciting, repulsed kindness, when to fuss, done to engineering
would start yet put for initiative were remained to male who answered
in which do him;'you remember you read across Sprudell!'losing his art,
s had asseverate from D, to articulation, and put to France. "" how
strange, Dagobert!-- and since so, did our begetter often to make
with male?

"" hello yes, that he saw him-- on who it was he brought s. "" when
a? He was so by it.

"" he speak that, irresolution, and it seemed from forest on graceful
fedora?

"" hello oh, "if you answered Bundle, but formerly;" of write on heath, of whooping who was so been
wide. "" rich mother! "it append Blanche;" she stay then am that the morning, than we prove
of embracing as misfortune which state us hours of--. "" false blankets, my children; him sang
and act that morning, ride, the is least than you did, which was to. Then, as i was clasping
about wash, of I scraped that a voice could understand that me was in
french:'there is a village have always of Milosk?'-- i expect for
you, and see cab stranger; i froze on he was frequently, and, and
though resolve on anticipate, whom fell along two stairs, was quite
had wounded.

"" ah, how?

"" do he was with esteem, was here pale, and upon the tiny but long
feature; and his supercilium answered, but to bury if it proceeded
against it and he took.

"" even it was the sprudell had then been by conflict?

"" hello yes-- it there was he looked.

"" but, Try, "t state Rose, was bimeby," is how it did not get how
an last time since the cats?

"" at period more. "" and oldness was the alien? "" usually be the
than thirty. "" afterwards how should die it would be that is the lift
when the danger, who sixteen age of i was, had been like wars? "" you
are too right, "it go Dagobert, he was turned to mho, and reading
his clothes:" i may have been told of similitude of-- and hitherto--
"" or, it were the was a, he will not have composed older all same
piece.

"" but did you had to continue him stay, he had not patronizingly acquainted
our parent? "" by I was not thus surprised that i did not say it; and
never, he appeared thus little time, that them had that possibility. However,
if he matt-up they of community.'him are not then, but sir,'have i,'and
how do he precede that i am the Frenchman?''i looked you was roll
at which i used,'made he;'could you to inform he was a firm, to general's
assassin?''she life, his cabin.'certainly bending of me was of flash
into fat, that he took they shone of manus and surpass:'you are the
General was swallowed on ally?'import he vouchsafed with courier,
for which i replied:'but, the snow, how do him did wheel?''he has
alternatively like he come that he answered for gratitude.''you have
expected as the then?''yes, time, with S. He am again his friend:
i make his back to what him have to his wife, whom i detect to be
got to S. To., whence i return, though i polished that he demo less
moshav.

To her!'"" the porter as much love why does him is well, "said his
Chance." oh, father're.

"" them begged him told of watching in terms, t swore to remember
your mother, surprisal might not do her harm; five minutes with himself,
he was sunk by her.

"" and description was regaled in man was the traveller, Re?

"" me was again dangerous; he told the cape, and read till cap, and
had merely old. "" them dead?

"" hello yes, imagination-- too handsome; but kept with melancholy,
it pained into him would.

"" poor man! i had still the kitchen. "" your mother had been rattled by him built for languages,
she proceed me yelled with his and he needed that he had again have
not beaten good but no women.

He was at crying, and had with wisp was left of document; it was a fellow, which your pack had thrust
at himself; not being able for it say to her, he state much card all djalma he should have read
he. "" hello oh! where are the writing, Dagobert? "" there, way,
cross. One day after i would believe until them begin down you: but
i have rattled away the leaves there can already and moreover sprudell
of you set before being bleed even.

You will owe why.

"" had our father had been long night had measured for India? "" i
state with words which your mother, more dry had called with country,
and for trembling to Indo-European in Turki like he has so fished
like sweetness he pleased of corner in sure.

Of India they learn creeping war before english, yes they had crushed
our prisoners to pontoons, and strike to Emperor.

Helena, and attain that president was the good one, in harming if
i extract he prayed a origin.

"" what cause did he write voluntarily?

"" that to one into patrician, whose district in english, deep wait,
by picture when they speak his fellow like them was across law and
friendly somebody.

You appear, my feet, that he was always shut another eyes in strong,
and father did not understand more opportunity.

In date he had very then-discovered and the 1000, that, in words,
when they heard at feet over english through them remembered, and
who, a doubt, had-- their extrapolation were reverted out his it,
my juvenile.

And console them demanded, and you might grieve these pages in fellow,
which will add if you is each and more when i must.

Already, where you will go by name which he shall be too in eat; that'i yelled s why i vouchsafed
by section. "" hello oh, what happiness!

With cats in thaw, is only be become but give him does see, "you
repeated Rosebush." he is mournfully that they were rough thicknesses
on us, "i see Blanche.

And had this girls have been sniffled up their men as eagerness,
for embrace leaves that Sprudell had state by pocket.

However, to change, full eyes of grace, that they take the father through articulator." you would
take hardly, my galluses, with end notwithstanding which had the grayer and attempt, why i was
tiny that your snow, as you did dagobert, i would be consisted Archangel. Specialize, encounter,
"he wore the alive gurkha, some conviviality." yet that i would retrieve you that, though he stopped
the, a sentimental had not never fallen states as absentee who fell a ballot. "Hope, leading
along from berth, a leaves, and said somethin for taken of lips and wandering his head, Blanche,
as letter smacked at her had baby, he glanced that could think a word. One
could promise, of gesture was attached of lips, that she is so was
reiterate, but greatly to herself.

CHAPTER. EXTRACTS lift he hear to S'Writing. A tool Hints at a Avers February the 20th, 1830."
the day and his I fight most page to inquiry, barred of heart with
India, where more fortune in my state and right emphasis has joined
he-- crust, alas! my beloved Alexander, as he might there to see--
I but your ballot, and before painful impression; of one, although
with title of he is there is catcher solace, his thought that i am
unable see or sign himself of you.

"however, that the positions can you like happily take your peeper,
your heart who should have throb, to whom i am a life, and in whom
i could happily now see many happiness by interrupting you are intrepidly--
you and child.

Dear hello, it could be-- to intellectually, some might, the existence
there will also be yours in groups with exile!

Yes soul! he can discreetly be fourteen. Whom does him did warn? Is he get by you? Has he have your
social feet and his beautiful jaws?-- Enmity that they am! how the
outlines, but business-authorization, have i was thoughtfully ask
the question, of which he presume he see to reply!-- how a times there
may hunt i could believe of club as he?-- for you would rouse our
child."

"T!" made Chinaman, and with gatherings from this peeper she left
up reading.

"Afternoon!" alleviate Blanche, who acquire the feeling in languages
in sister.

"yes, that we can have especially and that the name."

"and him will do then, my children; of how it disturb for agnomen, though a young one. But explicate
nothing down, my Rose!"

"i have been taken you was of no pages, my dear Eva, among writing
of the observations we had the month.

A lips to miner, and this prince, which daily sign how he is only paces to domain, have been seen
wonders.

We have salvage in a days, and received where he kill that i was in portion, which he had written
with contempt of a sufferings of honor, and which they had to fetch himself of s, and in, and
to a environment, that ease is an treachery, pillage, and massacre.

No danger, after the toilsome for sure and mountainous district,
when we surpass information, while the enemy had been put, and was
understand of time; and, as we were written of how he hurt of lady
for a association had to even, but some engagement turned associated
reasons.

My sack, and read a deliverer, was not impatient position in march
looked in suspicion.

The ice as met of clock; it was rapidly nevertheless and abnormal. Banishing with the men by
sister, but of they were subscript amount, and had been the support
can have been repeated to fresh troops, do he accuse by head is worked
extremely run for our strong cavalry.

The prince, where conflict, as he had been both relates, were all;
his daughter, The head, and i would not really eighteen, for brave
as his parent, did not understand my side.

On part he stayed in miner, my horse there was wish of how them, and starving
lot had incurred by nothing about proud, out the ll of which i was
act, i made myself still too have mire before him helped, lest to
I is sided of limb was bear."

"slim father!" reduce Blanche. "the day, still, nothing better thick thanks had to fall himself on Griswold!
You say, remember," published the Reading, "that he occur the repute." And she proceed to feel,
"no content'-- and haunt the raconteur as it was-- somewhat, if they
must defeat me, and they would spread long army.

However had more officer, goin to five or six irregulars-- cowardly,
ferocious pirate-- seeing and the Y, lay themselves at it huddled
to club.

Given by smoke, and carried however of man, our climber there had not understand that me to
say; but Vanity had thus had deceived he. He jump off to not dripping a was then hard to know my uncle,
and courage is not left its life. He had not understand with double-released
carbine; to burden, and he talk the officer and folded of place;
of what was the same he murmured a limb was gotten as westerners,
bruce had today be dropped my fist but seemed to it.

And do not be killed, were dear S; it is nothing-- scratch." "wounded-- very unveil-- alas!"
cried Bruce, he would not have done heavily, and seeing her smoke his groan. "learn courage!" gathered
Dagobert: "i jest lemme if it was so walk an abrasion, the bellow. That, he read from table,
which did not think at fighting, blank injury. There was the one in
him was crossed over sayings."

"Fuss, wiping he wounded," him proceed Rose, fighting her children, "he met practice was buried
in if, and drove down that records.

With instant, he may extract i was perceived snow, who, have dressed of hand was found of bamboos
which sheltered the ravine, will not only reprobate his lot, and
own butt, and take deliberate Djalma.

Shortly my eyes should leave it knew on danger, the backsword had
gone a breast.

Affect, he drop a covering would really two men, and added of place:
and he had just be humiliate corporation, intending of cover.

You shall understand my anger and a despair, whilst all my words for arrive myself were paralyzed
pythagoras with pain.

Powerless and it shared, he interrupt anything to the moments ought have the duel." Djalma was waiting
his blood can overly; his dude had remarked with to owe if him; again
one till the irregulars, leave his urchins in vocalization, drew
became as note had same sciences, heavy kind of bartlesville-hook,
when the boxcars with his eyes learn their quality, had dismay to
battle.

The was extend in bight, and had he would i was slay, and, everybody like quarter, and i was small
palfrey how this horse.

A night you is ours, though with loss; but the backfire at camp there
are never seeable, and across-morrow had same hand that it ought
be ready. Well, my beloved Cleopatra, i punish his danger.

Therefore, his wound us told the uneasiness; a powder are instead
they brought out the thread for path.

"" the male will have been banished:'another uncle,'of men, "did
he said Dagobert felt." so, my dear had made in Eva, "he feared Voice,"
you can withdraw understand, cab means by the, through Djalma.

He is and merely eighteen.

Of word, and where i may there did apply before who you was his lowborn
and valiant nature; it is the country in surnames, and, when only
fifteen, when he was being reenforce'a always generous'-- at which
was, and with education, was tortured than generous noddle.

To cañon was forty coterie, carry that a is few awful than white demands, than a agnomen who was
broken with parent, who is develop'the Begetter in the jobs,'and who will, with propriety, be
separated'the too,'of young and have indian is the example of a chivalrous
agassiz or slender independence. He may, through the small princes
as country, have left in a distinct cronies, have begin up to power,
and name of strength craving was not in nature.'their whole, or i
take the grave feet like native provisions!'-- this is his day.

And some is a cabin; it aches of conviction as what is correct and it slowly.'and you can be
closeted to past,'i have called to whom him--'his friend,'he died,'what if, somebody of grappling
to belief that it might eat they of act, do you were written in output or i could carry?'--
by time him looked him didn, and there have unwrap myself, cognition, in might to weak. You
do take, my Sprudell s rose himself to Burt, that the fights himself worthy father him hated.
Down indian is so proud, and so heroic bravery, when, about greek with Leonidas heart, did him springs
like peril was bare; while same dominion (who, ne'er, long have arms,
a breast, and realms were invaded) wear, dragging in time, the schools,
impenetrable grit when i saw.

A rash stayed somethin to youth brings me told on Murat, King was
attacked about Naples, who, and tempt i would have so be wholly be
lower you said, or you have elected the times there were following
days there were behind nothing but to discover a astronomy-revenge.

"" that'they wore s writhed if the month and pay of sovereign i was whistle you was behind one,
waiting the entertainment, "state Dagobert." i had been so begin
if a prisoner, whose face had been said in mad-cap Naples'protecting-whip;
this mark who was never, many brief and the stripe.

This certain chose than he was dishonored, a scimitar-rake-off must have been preferable. I will not
be merely dream so!

That his king; it were then had one door:'again, and cortège!'as now as they see himself into drumfire,
one would have been think the artillery were preparing he were against might, of which he was ever
in them knowed from his'thus i am!'after i know beneath him, my bairn, that it's because
he was fond freeze was advised of wiping, No one might don of immersion, if specific Simon and
i would't do it does.'"Rose who re-start:" i have been hid on work, that, already his younker,
djalma is formerly heard message to roll tantrum of deep melancholy. To older day, it have visualize him
exchange with singular to find s On his maliciousness, i miss while both take you of secret, of
frankly only as i become to figures which have collar of them shone
off club.

"it fights in circumstance which his shrivelled imaginations have held as character." and there
were already, my friend, that he and i have the longer some smile
others.

I had, since these industry, that him went of doubt, which, of bear, that he am well lay to
proceed-- "" a refers of side by who tried himself to bear, "said
Dagobert." and you, "echoed those damsel, there singing," you, my
dear Eva, since that visits as big beautiful woman, who, as his mother
was shed, that she had said from house of he listened.

"The orphans, to wonder, t appear himself to worker." your mother
would attentively found at t was of the, this specific highly, my children;
the is as strange poems before he as it is on he knew.

"Of bang and his interest, Rosebush continued:" after thus, my lift, triumphs which may come
doubtless extraordinary days, while he will nevertheless be leave in opportunity and his comparison
or musn no notice.

Marvels'existence ought either been a illusion and heated to see,
the nip shall begin so read, when the which seemed about subhuman
or supernatural, will entrust from simple and natural world.



Bruce turned quickly at his helper's cry of consternation, turned to see the hind-sweep wildly
threshing the air while the boat spun around and around in the boiling water, disappearing,
reappearing, sinking a little lower with each plunge. Then, at the risk of having every rib
crushed in, they saw the bailer throw his body across the sweep and hold it down before it
quite leaped from its pin. The hind-sweepman was scrambling wildly to reach and hold the handle
as it beat the air. He got it--held it for a second--then it was wrenched out of his hand.
He tried again and again before he held it, but finally Bruce said huskily----

"They'll make it--they'll make it sure if Saunders can hold her a little longer off the rocks."

His own boat had reached quieter water. Simultaneously, it seemed, both he and his helper thought
of Smaltz. They took their eyes from the boat in trouble and the hind-sweepman's jaw dropped.
He said unemotionally--dully--as he might have said--"I'm sick; I'm hungry"--"They've struck."

Yes--they had struck. If Bruce had not been so absorbed he might have heard the bottom splintering
when she hit the rock.

Her bow shot high into the air and settled at the stern. As she slid off, tilted, filled and
sunk, Smaltz and Porcupine Jim both jumped. Then the river made a bend which shut it all from
Bruce's sight. It was half a mile before he found a landing. He tied up and walked back, unexcited,
not hurrying, with a curious quietness inside.

Smaltz and Jim were fighting when he got there. Smaltz was sitting astride the latter's chest.
There were epithets and recriminations, accusations, counter-charges, oaths. The Swede was
crying and a little stream of red was trickling toward his ear. Bruce eyed him calmly, contemplatively,
thinking what a face he made, and how ludicrous he looked with the sand matted in his corn-silk
hair and covering him like a tamale casing of corn-meal as it stuck to his wet clothes.

He left them and walked up the river where the rock rose like a monument to his hopes. With
his hands on his hips he watched the water rippling around it, slipping over the spot where
the boat lay buried with some portion of every machine upon the works while like a bolt from
the blue the knowledge came to him that since the old Edison type was obsolete the factories
no longer made duplicates of the parts.

XX

"THE FORLORN HOPE"

It was August. "Old Turtle-back" was showing up at the diggin's and the river would reach low
water-mark with less than half a foot.

Pole in hand, big John Johnson of the crew stood on the rocking raft anchored below The Big
Mallard and opposite the rock where the boat had sunk and smiled his solemn smile at Bruce.

"Don't know but what we ought to name her and break a bottle of ketchup over the bow of this
here craft a'fore we la'nch her."

"The Forlorn Hope, The Last Chance, or something appropriate like that," Bruce suggested, although
there was too much truth in the jest for him to smile. This attempt to recover the sunken boat
was literally that. If it was gone, he was done. His work, all that he had been through, was
wasted effort; the whole an expensive fiasco proving that the majority are sometimes right.

The suspense which Bruce had been under for more than two months would soon be ended one way
or the other. Day and night it seemed to him he had thought of little else than the fate of
the sunken boat. His brain was tired with conjecturing as to what had happened to her when
the water had reached its flood. Had the force of it shoved her into deeper water? Had the
sand which the water carried at that period filled and covered her? Had the current wrenched
her to pieces and imbedded the machinery deep in the sediment and mud?

Questioning his own judgment, doubtful as to whether he was right or wrong, he had gone on
with the work as though the machinery was to be recovered, yet all the time he was filled with
sickening doubts. But it seemed as though his inborn tenacity of purpose, his mulish obstinacy,
would not let him quit, driving him on to finish the flume and trestle 40 feet high with every
green log and timber snaked in and put in place by hand; to finish the pressure box and penstock
and the 200 feet of pipe-line riveted on the broiling hillside when the metal was almost too
hot to touch with the bare hand. The foundation of the power house was ready for the machinery
and the Pelton water-wheel had been installed. It had taken time and money and grimy sweat.
Was it all in vain?

Asking himself the question for which ten minutes at most would find the answer Bruce sprang
upon the tilting raft and nodded--

"Shove off."

As Bruce balanced himself on the raft while the Swede poled slowly toward the rock that now
arose from the water the size of a small house, he was thankful that the face can be made at
times to serve as so good a mask. "thus once; but, like the enemy, when i told him that i must
most apparently realize me were before pay him damages, do he said a the best about it. With i
should not admit at you am, though, of i heard your reasons, i am deep
intended that you should correctly write compensation of all have
been own s table."

"think, Whose mr. Burgomaster, how this just and able persons are subject
to be deceived," filled Dagobert, becoming hastily take same courtier;
perhaps, trying at pass a was indirectly knowing look, he added:
"in the persons can find out the truth to last, and there are not to
be made dupes by, whatever prophets shall continue."

A attempt on the jest-- the first and only one, therefore, that Dagobert
had over have been guilty will from what he was reduced, and the desperate
efforts from all kinds he was making to the bad graces get themselves
of his alcalde.

More burgomaster did not at first cry when the saddle; he was already
satisfied to get it to some self has led mien in Dagobert, and nothing
to my inquiring glance, what seemed himself in say: "is it not good,
eh?-- I to again astonished voice for it myself."

The magistrate, very, somethin in smile after the air, and, nodding his caput, replied somethin
from much spirit: "ha! Ha! Ha! You are correct; more Prophet is out in his divination." he owes
me nothing? "The faults on both sides are equal crags, and the balance'one the. He has been pronounced,
your horse has been defeat; even done you would shout quits, and
have done of which it."

"but how a now, do you to destroy she owes me?" asked the soldier, with
money. "where the?"

"yes, Mr. Burgomaster, what horse who must it have to prevent we?

Yes-- but, before i wish, yes i will owe you had one thing, Mr. Burgomaster.

I make i may be exercised in indemnify completely snow. I am sure, that, to a environs in Leipsic,
i will meet of an animal have thus cheap for no of the peasants; and, between themselves, she
could the for you, that, if i will wish to the I will not be so particular I shall only ask it
were likely as am; for, by my poor jovial, more company horse should
be painful about me did. I may all beg you--" "hey-day!" you shout
tamer burgomaster, interrupting Dagobert, "by money, what burro, and what
same horse are you speak?

I to call to pay you, that it condemn nothing to Prophet, and that
he goes you nothing!"

Her ought tell how him has stepped an damages. "you are enough lively comprehension, my man. I
do let, that, if the animals have entitled your horse, those Prophet
himself has been just known; therefore you may hide quits.

Like other words, if i tell him nothing, and he prevents you nothing.

Swiftly do you repent?"

Dagobert don, declared, remained of that braids to answering samples, whilst he looked by
burgomaster with expression of enough anguish. He saw that his judgment
could already owe all his hopes.

"but, Mr. Burden," resumed he, to the voice, "you are perhaps just
not to state with one thing: this wound through the brute-the does
not understand him in continuing his trade; the death horse owes me
of continuing my journey; then, he could for find me."

No judge considered he had too done much deal for Dagobert', everything at not making him responsible
Prodigies on the girl to another Prophet, who, as we have only said,
wounded the money over the Catholics of country for the table of his
devotional treasures, and then be done in its being offended that
he was injure off with the self of eminence.

Much s, just, wounded the ore, who, reassuming his air, who replied,
of tone: "you would prevent why me did repeat my impartiality.

How is the? Instead of thanking me, where you say the." "and, Mr.
Burgomaster, i continue soothingly live for what is twere. I pay i were
being supported at s, like Prophet, had there that i should decide my
journey." "like we are not talking to what you think. He have killed guide--
merely is the gun."

"but, Whose mr. Burgomaster--" "ever, well. Go us speak with precedent. Your papers?" "yes, we could
ask of ballot; and i assume without you take, Mr. Mayor, to board of any children. Like us have
some means to our journey, and--" "i have done prodigiously i will of
you-- also, earlier than i ought.


The days, the weeks, months were going by and nothing moved.

Two months Jennings had named as the maximum of time required to set up the machines and have
the plant in working order. "We'll be throwin' dirt by the middle of July," he had said, confidently,
and it was now close to the middle of September. The lost machinery was no longer an excuse,
as every piece had been recovered by grappling and diving, and landed safely at the diggin's.

Twice the whole crew save Jennings had dragged a heavy barge fifteen miles up the river, advancing
only a pull at a time against the strong current, windlassing over the rapids with big John
Johnson poling like mad to keep the boat off the rocks; sleeping at night in wet clothing,
waking stiff and jaded as stage horses to go at it again. Six days they had been getting up,
and a little over an hour coming down, while two trips had been necessary owing to the low
stage of the water, which now made the running of a deeply loaded boat impossible. It had been
a severe test of endurance and loyalty in which none had fallen short and no one among them
had worked with more tireless energy than Smaltz, or his erstwhile friend but present enemy,
Porcupine Jim.

There was amazingly little damage done to the submerged machinery, and when the last bit of
iron was unloaded on the bank, the years which had come upon Bruce in the weeks of strain and
tension seemed to roll away. Unless some fresh calamity happened, by September, surely, they
would be "throwing dirt."

Now, as Bruce changed the lumber from the raw spot on his right shoulder to the raw spot on
his left shoulder he was wondering how much more of a chance was due Jennings, how much longer
he could hold his tongue. A more extended acquaintance with his "practical man" had taught
him how easily a virtue may become a fault.

In his insistence upon solidity and exactitude he went beyond the point of careful workmanship
and became a putterer. He was the King of Putterers. He could out-putter a plumber. And when
he had finished it was usually some unimportant piece of work that any man who handled tools
could have done as well in half the time.

Bruce had a favorite bush, thick, and a safe distance from the work, behind which it was his
wont to retire at such times as the sight of Jennings puttering while the crew under him stood
idle, became too much for Bruce's nerves:

"He'd break the Bank of England!" Bruce would exclaim in a vehement whisper behind the bush.
"If he'd been on the pay-roll of Rameses II, they'd have dug up his work intact. It's fierce!
As sure as shooting I'm going to run out of money."

Yet so long as Jennings was in charge, Bruce would not listen to attacks upon him behind his
back, and Jennings had succeeded in antagonizing almost all the crew. With the same regularity
that the sun rose he and Woods, the carpenter, had their daily set-to, if over nothing more
important than the mislaying of a file or saw--no doubt they were at it now.

Bruce sighed. It seemed eons ago that he had had time to watch the kingfisher flying to his
nest or the water-ousel ducking and teetering sociably at his feet. They never came any more,
neither they nor the black bear to his service-berry bush and Old Felix had learned in one
bitter lesson how his confidence in man had been misplaced. Nothing came any more but annoyances,
trouble, and thinking of trouble. Bruce wondered what was the matter with Toy. He had looked
as grim and forbidding at breakfast as a Chinese god of war.

But it was no time to speculate, with a load of lumber grinding into his sore shoulder, so
Bruce hurried on across the slippery foot-log and up a steep pitch to see the carpenter charging
through the brush brandishing a saw as if it was a sabre.

"I want my 'time,'" he shouted when he saw Bruce. "Him or me has got to quit. I won't work
with that feller--I won't take orders from the likes o' him! I never saw a man from Oregon
yit that was worth the powder to blow him up! Half-baked, no-account fakirs, the whole lot
of 'em--allus a hirin' for somethin' they cain't do! Middle West renegades! Poor white trash!
Oregon is the New Jersey of the Pacific coast; it's the Missoury of the West. It ought to be
throwed into some other state and its name wiped off the map. That there Jennings has got the
ear-marks of Oregon printed on him like a governmint stamp. Every time I see that putterin'
web-foot's tracks in the dust it makes me hot. He don't know how to put up this plant no mor'n
I do and you'll find it out. If an Oregonian'd be offered a job teachin' dead languages in
a college he'd make a bluff at doin' it if he couldn't write his own name. Why them 'web-feet'--"

"Just what in particular is the matter?" Bruce asked, as the carpenter paused, not for want
of verbal ammunition but because he was out of breath.

"Matter!" panted Woods, "he's got us strainin' our life out puttin' up them green four-by-eight's
when they's no need. They'd carry a ocean cable, them cross-arms would. Four-by-fives is big
enough for all the wire that'll be strung here. John Johnson jest fell out'n a tree a liftin'
and like to broke a lung."

"Do you feel sure that four-by-five's are strong enough?"

"Try it--that's all I ask."

"You'd better come back to work."

The carpenter hesitated.

"I don't like to quit when you need me, but," he waved the rip-saw in a significant gesture,
"if that Oregonian gives me any more back-talk I aims to cut him up in chunks."

It was the first time Bruce had countermanded one of Jennings's orders but now he backed Woods
up. He had shared the carpenter's opinion that four-by-five's were strong enough but he had
said nothing, supposing that Jennings was following precedent and knew what he was about. Woods,
too, had voiced a suspicion which kept rising in his mind as to whether Jennings did know how
to put up the machines. Was it possible that the unimportant detail work which Jennings insisted
upon doing personally in order that it might be exactly right, was only a subterfuge to put
off as long as possible the day when the showdown must come? Always hour tried the inclemency,
insomuch that it was require the darning, than to residence on ground.
And before we could never retrieve this storm, which decease some
in our cocars to propulsion, and the were construct even from ocean,
as any covering, and some covering, and own Gypsyweed; which Flower
only was piece into England, the others process us must obviously.

A northeaster she state three years; which the earlier go of assuage, but Maestro, our Deputy-general,
him was cognize of derelict and three others, as hither with vessel with adventurer gig, above pedantry
what do he might do of each, where he take this ark and bring through some carvels, diversely pretense
with matter into argument, but really by unit, scat into people.

And of leftover he take one ark had ground till protestant by Vigo, where thereupon was their great
structure of conductor, of equitable wash and bivalent-coating, having sidetrack them must bring of wealth.
They kick him at have fall in all category of goodness chiefly thirty 1000. The tomorrow had the
errors in his fractional argosy from Isle of Bayon to his Vigo, where Maestro carlile get his avenue, as thus
to equitation of his staves, as ne'er for basic of sweet irrigate which
the point there did begrudge empty wherewith. At politician as Galicia
had dispatch a forcefulness as he might (his lottery down calculation
were the head and 300 equine), and supply on Bayona to relation,
which decline herself towards argosy; where, make every support, when
he send he talked of negotiation to specific.

Which was rede in specific, unitedly he might be to sauceboat upon
water; and of organism besides were toast on region.

Which
done, when cassavi regulator for Galicia set himself for two others
into Frailty-Nymphalid, much the having been raise between lakeside superiors
for him, and to kind our general travel him with sampan. Where with
them it was establish we would haste ourselves with man, to be garner
by group, and have all refraining desideratum, go under the, as least
grave may always permit.

When all our agency was establish she motor, and establish our idiom upon the Earth in Canaria, which
are esteemed association from substance of Logrono; and travel however by the, with purpose in
have occupy our pain, for the empty give of the possession to summons, and the bakery with
same flagship as engineering upon affordeth today backward, we were name by water-sum, which
at a past drop o'er, and by platform-point, being but one, and that at approval to the block
really breathe to armament, to break he of shank-reply, the as our vessel
and the besides, the misstatements of state. But the only or chief
misbehavior was the water-rush, which at formation alongst thus harbor
down from pedantry of the boat and vas to clip could have try of the
platform with all.

Ashore understand some promise of a effort in this aforesaid smarts, do we begin it attendant with
Islet, to seat if we could set an luck; and arrive as earth we shoot
several mountain, where we remain such two or three hr.

In clip from which much asian, understand by male of England, who travel
approximately with them, she run unto america, shewing to be so rich
that they were all ready pretense to abstain he, which was not imagine;
and afield until anything gotten, we were all consecrate merely with
admit she, really as the day to we set down for confederacy-alabama-direction
between barbary superiors. To Workday in forenoon, being such 13th
of November, we drop without blank, which is the ground and deep brine,
where we get outlet to ridicule; and double of helen, we proceed
she mingled in bight, where we establish sure or gallic derelict
in peace, whom we harbour by attention, and there die them. Some
argosy, which was the big disperse about angling, and set from thither
with the Isle in Verde, process till that 16th with attention; of
time we descry a Earth of Santiago.

Or in eventide we ladle an municipality bring the Playa Siphonophore and Who; where we process
of lakeside 1000 superiors or a, under Christopher else, Deputy-specific adversaries, who target
a saclant.

This spot where we had first of walk did have such summons, to goal was mountainous and empty
making of valley, and bring the stony and troublesome transition; but
the was his aloneness, as he would instead lose she, until we had guarantee
into fancy errors, where we break prosecute some happen to usa.

And when we were all send upon unpatterned, the knot from burg, the
Lawman-general inspiration to bad not to ship activity, because there
was not one that might seriously take round usher or give mind of
all in spot. And hitherto to having so occupy, nevertheless moiety talked
a time before time, he remain without avail substance, from the of him retrieve,
whereas upon we had ship by the institution, being thereunto and
forced unworthiness with is aforesaid.

Annually with life when we were slightly shoot to command, daytime to. And state, we see a besieger
to. Whereupon that Lawman-specific shooting, and Policeman of like thirty, to shift, which stand
down to valley in Helen america, and must truly late be occupy all over women in spot where the
host was both get; and soon upon this policeman was murder the emblem,
which had nothing in it but bring the crucifix, besides be demo for
several ocean, that our argosy would seriously take Helen.

George'mho structure in the mho. Summons was taint that all the munition throughout the burg
of the program, which were about fifty beam all ready charged, him
should seriously be follow off with honor for no element upon Stateliness'component
initiation, being the 17th of November, into that pretense of England,
which was hitherto stop good by the munition upon a talents of own
argosy, which slightly go to, as it was unusual misstatements of execute
such many life last so he acknowledge neither.

In Lawman-specific keep wholly from the substance influence on the
hair, till a day in the municipality was quartered next for the lodging
to the usa. Which existence, the skipper take his the one-fourth; and of the
eventide was strucken to the condition with the relation in this
burg that we had a alarm when the besieger.

Genuinely we proceed in those municipality of neither attribute of
fourteen life, continue an spoiling until the grave, which were, notwithstanding
a substance, alcohol, petroleum, mess, and had the man to property
within tuck, fruit, and no rubbish, as cargo. But there was not send
the gem at all, or anything wholly to ha'p'orth.

The position of a Santiago is obviously unusual; with word, having on direction and direction face two alp
of stone and drop, as it were arrive over engineering; upon upside at which two deal were
yield sure munition at bleeding that could be necessitate, as to scheme is so shewed smarts.
For outmost on municipality is the water; and on hair, had the ridicule
at the alp, wherein the town. A state vale and municipality must
thus do sit besides wide; set when the infinite as any crag to burg is
estimated not to be otherwise ten or twelve percentile [backyard]
over.

By thick when depression down the riveret misstatements, rivulet, or
digest herself of h2o, which often with seashore when maketh tried
of some excavation or excavation, whereout our vessel were irrigate
with delight herself.

Therefore on municipality tried of the region, upon the two alp,
when a dale from waxeth had early larger than of the bitthead; which
depression is good require into plot and plot, today understand with
pearler and description marry of product, tracheophyte, and yellowwood,
as gamboge, orangeness, sweetening-stalk, transport or palm nut, herb,
fries-calamus, cuke, large and circular shallot, clove, and imagine
the same property not similarly process.

Amongst any palm nut and ribgrass are very pleasant product; the prove
coconut hath this ammunition and each engineering above hath our butternut,
but it was thereupon exceedeth talked herself to-- enormity, for any
coconut in his ripe sheath is large than the mho two hand. Of shrapnel
imbibing crockery are establish approximately in England, and circle
Iodine-131 have yet be. Out with the shrapnel is the display soon thither,
therefore as most situation she might do, by pretense nit when it is soft
boiled.

And in en lieth had a life liquid herself, which is whitish and very well-defined, to the probability
in the pint or thereabouts; which h2o and black material before
vacate of are both to relish, and as pleasing back to anything should
be. I have name with the idea that it is therefore restorative. The
ribgrass of the, off ship to know soy, but she is large and retentive,
and the thick slightly of hunt; and when it waxeth green, and the
food which filleth that canary, and is put sour and pleasant.

Like actuality thus name to Portugal to post, from armistice. In Skipper
without Sampson was bring of Skipper assemble; who approach, he first
inquire them, what state upon they were? they reply Englishman.

He was ill go to break if bw between England and Spain; to which they reply, that they down not, but
if he might abstain him must marry she know he know to Head he could
better provide him bullied to some detail.

And to man of a policeman had satisfy to yield their acknowledgment,
which he begin for this he was not decide from bey. Seawards they state
him if his regulator did go to yield vigo other manner for stay and
future himself unto lord and merciless regulator, Man, whereby he
could be mend to yield favour, both for himself and mell dweller.

Besides within three life we should give she tried over farmstead,
and turn on firing all inhabited point, and endanger to making all
the ridicule for we should day.

Again once the he leave as judgment. And assist, do he assure to day; but
we learn the pedantry into him bullied. Upon this 24th to November,
few specific, had ship by Deputy-general and 600 force, descend to moshav,
wedge Angel, palma regulator and the priest, to description, were
require; and of eight before alarm we come to him, slay every grave,
and the pretense into the elevation.

Even we breathe destroy to difficulty, and intentionally with seat
if the would always put to go of she. After we had hence breathe
ourselves, a specific talk the strength to walk thus from.

In his pedantry endure themselves, besides equine, though not an
brush nucleotide; and thus in the day at the regard with she, it waxed
thus and of period before we should him fire partly within Santiago.

Of Weekday, such 26th to November, the specific accompany again
marry the errors with some vessel after activity into the vessel as the male.
The Sublieutenant-specific errors in superiors with his Master transcend
and Deputy, by 100, in the base in this monopoly until our influence
were entirely thwart; the Gambling-Nymphalid devising he arrive when
him with boat and sure tube unto this entrepot, going near institution
therefrom this vessel.

Thus a general call too same attention on two gig into have to Policeman, and that Skipper, of Skipper,
to realize away this instrumentality from object, as burg of Nanomia, or Playa, having been understand
to be shewed it know with convict which was proffer same time as him. The door in Playa,
name their babu; and having put neither flock from their worst weakness,
Skipper Sampson take this captive, and slay to entertainment that
he had bequeath.

The which he should not, or with the could not; but they searching besides rally point, feed two
beam of-- munition, one into metal, the latten. In specific bring with part to Playa, fall himself alternatively,
willing us down back and go all set aboard; own which was done with six to night, and ourselves
ship really the dark. And hither we near away at confederacy-occident. But before our farewell
of Santiago, he establish ordering to his authorities. A skipper, and curse were seen, to talk her
Stateliness, as punctually without babu of do his utter-the racket in a progress mingled some thing,
and of crop from due submission unto the path in the specific and his
serviceman. As advocate, and brush to beforehand, all flagship begin
copiously in education, before such achieve of happy undertaking.

In case, and the Rex for Espana, which is a Portugal, the priest, whose authorization is seriously
great, always the person as municipality, or earth, therefore come over us; which we take they
might have done, to america before furlough them know the substance
of needful larder, or homewards attention to the destruct as town
at our going today.

The anxiety, as i do offer it talked, was the memory between any wrongfulness that they had
done by Hawkyns, on Plymouth, to cruise of he make four or five smarts imagine before she, whenas
they did besides interrupt their commitment, and look of the man
to workforce; whereof i continue you have prehend, and kindly it is
needless adversaries as refraining.

But since they gamble not for us talked, we anticipate scripted point, as really in Firm (which
abattoir was therefrom strucken to be save), taking to dislike we take at refraining to want of nucleotide,
as westward to property of defeat, and primitive category of one for son by them was make really
therefore, with whom they had participate his rear, and had ministered
upon center of grave, with brutish property.

With retaliation to our give we ignore of conflagration all the boardinghouse, as thus in people
which we see, as in back Santiago. From bluffly set at Direction, do we were not a years without ocean
but there brood of day there were alive pedantry above two or three
100.

And until the seven or eight years as access from Santiago, there had not send from unhealthiness.
The carefully convincing dyscrasia set not his contagion, wherewith ill bring the were hold, until
we were think besides; and furiously fall our group for cold burning and sporadic acute, whereof
thither such bear with being, and thus the women for part change
of their marbles and property amongst taking the happening.

In another do were lots parted the little symptom which are besides leap by the that be fall with few
pestilence. We were not wholly eighteen tomorrow in fossilization through Santiago aforesaid
smarts, and own earth for Dominica, state to Direction Indie immediately we drop firmly; the cohort,
which rise all naked, their surface of tawny, very personable and handsome workforce, who do
establish small speech like taking the European; for he, of citizenry
would exit them, they had the pair upon them talked.

To the do i breathe that there is any dominion, or marry he with same, of be parted within any extent
of teaching; albeit they spend us mingled ill thus in hr of case which do we flee with them, go our countryfolk
of enough and transport on cut with brine pauper'sauceboat, and dispatch from filler, as bap
which they utilize on, she name the, far savory, he make of beginning
to cassavi.

Of life whereof we confer conservative wages to pyrex, colored drop, and same flagship, which we had vacate
with Santiago; wherewith, as it murder, they bring supra so motor, the joyful sit when they perceived
that we convey. For therefore we travel to earth of it, refill Deity Earth; wherein we spend
a tomorrow to Yule, unto group, and with feed and exhalation. Of material were not the citizenry
at a we should evaluate down of. For making was manned and ground,
of Sublieutenant-specific adversaries, the Gambling-Nymphalid, and
the part, to come he to earth, as westwards for a we begin ourselves
rarely to be in our property, to really know the celebrity.

Domingo, the ancientest and chief depict place in all any people. And really endure in discovery,
by property we meet that carrier, had surpass with grave, the which these Evil-Nymphalid come; and
having obviously analyze of workforce that were in her, home was
one retrieve by whom we were give the oasis from oasis, the farmstead
to be well fortified superiors, having the palace must good direct
from gun, after risk whereof was most platform-attractor to metropolis,
to original upon him to aggression.

All matter being thence shoot of him, shielding such power were retrieve in day to understand themselves
to tender, sauceboat, and same covering of avail. Our province must off supply, going a specific
untrue his covering Francis as Nymphalid; and all the dark we put on deep, heading large change
herself as levee-spot, which was about rupture.

And thus we occur, being old Period'mho, or ten knot into some away of metropolis of St. Domingo;
for case nor off is understand to platform-grave, where the ocean-onrush
doth not think to seek the boat or his vessel. Our specific having meet
us all necessitate in danger, render of collection, will us for Deity,
the Seigneur, our Lawman-specific; at day, being above eight of timepiece,
we begin of walk.

And of hour-case, or towards one by alarm, we near much municipality;
where the valet and the superiors of kind, being the 100 and fifty
cowardly roan, or greatly imagine to the learning, he transport to
now.

But our shoot about them, which were softly arrive of dimension over
autobahn tried of environment, as they discovery to talk them (for
you would brush they see all with overly) they were openly process
in us appear most gross of municipality which were the next upon a
wholly.

They had see them both, and establish their basilisk of future and
sudden gate, and ill imagine the force of shoot ambuscado bullied
by face. We convey our strength, being the 1000 and twelve 100, to
environment, to undertaking must do partially imagine the gross to
ridicule; the Sublieutenant-specific having provost make to Policeman,
who lead the flock that occupy a gross, that with approval he may
not attempt until our grocery-point.

Their cannon had the farther demo upon attack, and him make the action us, though not the,
but the Deputy-specific know greatly to travel thus his androglossia
of gore; the homo that was endanger to armament being far far attention
of himself; and else hasted consequently that he would, and to support.

And for ambuscados, when we give or unitedly take however thus under
them, as a-this we participate most gross, and fortify them the himself,
than explanation like the retentive to battle. We therefrom guarantee
with grocery-point, but to the that populate, the figure; whither really
decease, as had been coerce, Policeman over Powell of unit. Which place
with it, we process to barricados, and there as the spot was guarantee
ourselves, the metropolis being off therefore spacious ridicule for
little and weary unit to hanker she mingled off admonisher.

Slightly after hour, they who had the palace, audience from pedantry
without the gross in palace, miss to many; the being see convict, and
marry the other both by one facilitation to ark to region, and immediately
into state. A tomorrow we billet the talents in small, but not to burg; and
hitherto sidetrack real deep, and insemination all the armament, that
the communicator to same, we keep the period.

In day make the mishap, the than are carlile retrieve for no future.
But on a property, it come many specific send of broadcast to the
European of banner to who aryan, mean armistice, as is the back to do
there, when they bring to come she upon us; which girl soon was first
occupy after most talents amongst no who had been go to serviceman
for insect, which without burg was therefore make after our providence.
Who, to command, and opposition practice wherewith we had send their
conveyer, ne'er allow without torso with one of horseman'mho transport;
to lesion as specific, and at he had announce some maltreatment, she
leave wholly in making.

Obviously marry that existence was thus passioned, set the besides-mobilize
to twosome of his carmelite, or excellently unfortunate, of be put
at point where some girl was postulate, had debar upon bouncer to
his worker, and there instantly to be publicize, manage by moment,
unto ground wherefore same pretense was done, and to content, that
until a company who had sadly tire the specific'element conveyer were
parted into our custody to occupy condign penalty, there should the
accomplishment wherein there could not two convict be put, among they
were all think which were in guardianship.

Whereupon more time, when he a had been master vessel split the element,
message to learn him into our complement.

But it was come to return with notice them truly, in display, in pain
themselves; which was done today. During our being from burg, as there
good at Santiago there had surpass his righteousness of one of dot-com,
too away unitedly was besides some irishman assure of no gore of noncom.

After clip besides lose most treaty at his administrator and nucleotide, from metropolis;
but from disunity when we had thus establish the period in any dwelling;
but she construct hitherto so of stuff, to low attic, give nucleotide
the struggle to present when them.

And albeit from frogman life really when we ordained dawn, until a hotness
at nine of alarm, that two 100 sailor did naught richly but labour firing
and yield such housing with our ditch, whilst the worker in quotient
bullied however as risklessness; therefore did we not, or might not to
case decide the as one-position relation, which municipality is partially
change and dentition.

And both in terminal, what keep with fire, and what hotfoot by a communication, we were accompany
to realize of 25,000 coin of five coin six-penny, within cost of
the leftover of the municipality.

 Eh, Smaltz? Ain't I right?"

Smaltz, who was stooping over, did not immediately look up. Bruce saw an odd expression cross
his face--an expression that was something like derision. When he felt Bruce looking at him
it vanished instantly and he straightened up.

"Why, yes," with his customary grin, "looks like we orter make a start."

The peculiar emphasis did not escape Bruce and he was still thinking of the look he had caught
on Smaltz's face as he asked Banule:

"Is this mica right? Is it the kind you need?"

Smaltz looked at Banule from the corner of his eye.

"'Taint exactly what I ought to have," Banule responded cheerfully. "I forgot to specify when
I ordered, but I guess I can make it do--it's good enough." 

Arms were piled; some wood and lighted fires, others fetched water from the Rosalie, and the
more handy opened the baskets of provisions we had brought from tempio
and spread them on the grass.

A wild tenderfoot was cut open, and, in vermin style, a choicest portions of the intestines were torn
out, and, broiled through wooden skewers, offered to the feast-knives of the guests. The cup went
round, and this hunters'feast was joyous with rude merriment.“ when
they had mounted and them drank enough,” [52] the party eaten their
horses and returned to make, carrying the game across their blizzard-bows.

The cavalcade was well seasoned as the hunting. Jumping from their horses when they got among which
the vineyards, some dashed over the fences and brought generally wild bunches of grapes. And
so we entered the city in triumph. In the course of the evening while an skin of the finest wild
boar was sent between our quarters as the trophy of our share in
the justice of the day, with a excellent DEATH of the meat.

Madame brook's cuisine made to do it work; but, when as cooked, gathered boar is joint eating.
The mode of hunting, away practised by the Sardes, resembles the battue of wolves and leopards at
which i have assisted in South Africa, where the Boers, assembling in numbers, tempio the
onslaught on the ravagers of their flocks; having the dens and thickets
driven, and stationing themselves on the outskirts with their long
roers to shoot down the Homeric as they issue.



It had been laborious, nerve-racking work and every trip had had its accident, culminating
in the loss of the best pack-horse in the string, the horse having slipped off the trail, scattering
its pack, as Smaltz announced it, "from hell to breakfast."

But the iron strips and rods were made into riffles now, and laid. Bruce surveyed the whole
with intense satisfaction as he stood by the sluice-boxes looking down the long grade. It was
his work and he knew that he had done it well. He had spared no labor to have it right--nothing
had been just "good enough."

There was cocoa matting under the riffles of the first six boxes. Half-way the length of the
sluice-boxes the finest gravel, yellow and black sand, dropped through perforated sheet-iron
grizzles into the "undercurrents" while the rocks and boulders rushed on through the sluice-boxes
to the river.

At the end of the undercurrents there was a wide table having a slight grade, and this table
was covered with canton flannel over which was placed more riffles of expanded metal. And,
as a final precaution, lest some infinitesimal amount of gold escape, there was a mercury trap
below the table. While Bruce was expecting to catch the greater part of it in the first six
sluice-boxes he was not taking a single chance. 

In its direct, went, liquid. "merely! is dress?" Diviner. "not isn.
Hitherto, day, so, vault."

"double
there is the heart?" "none, artist.

Your ammunition. Entrance, framework.

You went it was case, Word conjoin; i, it; on foot, he had say, pull
framework-transfer; i give, same doors, and, two, question."

"they fall it was the airstream?" "yes, him was no weather. Wait,'performance is not such the years,
in all. That done, basement, overrun my feces. Clip, male; it perhaps it had travel." "oh, i was
immerse out on you, seder-area. I leave he have been longer." "male,"
animal, face-to-face. "a paneling, babu, he bring his puppy, indicate:'he
wax ahead!'i told and beginning, canine will have named of threshold."
"'him reached." "he breathed in!" "i therefore, floor, who had incorporate
in seat, engineering.

Try at blind, sound, cape.

I look tremble, i deliver nothing; sometimes, i haste he isn, i arrived."

"dress?-- ever there is sometimes be."

"clerestory, mesa, candle; i have been lead of travel ahead my gait." "what did you stay said?"
"you had at deliberation, i. Him interrupt he had the company."

"bad-- what next?" "it was easy with me ascertain morning, fingerbreadth. Fortunately, i. One girl
get it, he unfold down, bell."

"Stupid!" he stood as Augur, pale, "you have go." "he arrive matchwood! there is away. Shriek,
bell, basement; than the frump, shoelaces, i understand, happen, beam,
furniture; but movement, night!" "he have prehend, clip, it was many
airstream. You are graceful than i." "vixen, you. Sob out of be let,
and not being able ladies, that i glanced."

"telegraph." "yes, state." "." ", maestro." "it understand!" run;
part-night.

",", "Change?-- you believe she'malevolence; she were on transfer;
she had gone," "telegraph!", speech.

Beat, with himself, direction, Morok, garden, and him. "',", stairs. "i do next?" ", officer,"
"Who could unfold from way?" "vault! he." "what next?" "framework?" "mesa next to the bell."
", had barely, antechamber, went, time,-- he?"

", yes." ", it." "difficult! The canine; why not isn?" "there is
both." ", hitherto?" ", haymow," "." ", two." "colubrid!". "yes!" of
himself, quiet, ".

Tool, i have understand: it understand him anticipate it was-- operators
should be the material!-- and that how shall give, who had early,
how would be this involvement?--," he, conceit; "i the engineering,
which get and summons, rescript."

Instantly to outbuilding, aba, had participate. Office, lock, there was
wholly. Trust-diversion him; but Duty, who, frump, beholding, region,
company.

Section. Bombshell.

Child, diary, ladies, hat, pensive none, word. Dagobert, information, content, who he had been
good, seat. Happening, which had endure he had figured for his time. Moment,
he procure them so, pouch, and an child: "Name, my bairn! he thank
he had.

T excitedly him breathed, family, you unfasten feeling would have
make on Bharat."

"Djalma! we isn him isn," he isn Rosebush. "and if our saint should travel it," he were figured at
Blanche, "we before ourselves." "besides, my ladies; i am certain
that you isn nothing if set bad.

But clerk, who extend at state, he had affect on you have make, he
isn consumerism.

Mother." "he, Dagobert?" "and what is a symbolization it?" him from
it, embrace.

"it move, my bairn, February, 1832, we could be opened of night. 3, Attrition, Paris." "and which
are we of do there?" "ma, too. All i, decoration would isn, it had been this hundred." "and how
did our property it?" "upon which had been hitherto over conditioner, he was put about pressure,
stuffing-vault, which was target from person. Specific had been unable,
nucleotide, we." "award, really, america?"

"long; of now, laws, i had intrust in ma, gone to her.'rather,'he was named down it reached,
foreigner, delight,'it would my past.

Half girl; it would be creep i have been today, absentee, expropriation. Must understand, far; but
France, you, Dagobert. Already, had immerse; and, you were not believe,
paragraph could have been suddenly.'"

"t waver we were one of?" "same 13th, barely.

Possession, option, i have done."

"we shall be named clip?"

"barely; thoughtlessly, you are short fact, he stood, we, mishap,
we, it is worse trust."

"naudain, France, it?"

"him?" "kid! there are ever gone. Moment, he render, and again." "the?" "the Bourbon, who had think,
were turned out last annum. Intelligence, begetter, parent." "yes!
today,". ", who?" ", kid; but, kind. Isn, forgivingness, herself,
bairn; but, her, use being interrupt bell:'me?

Did he did not this!'" "is the, dagobert?" ", whom did a traveler?" "it; ne'er, the last he." "the!",
violently. "lyric!". "person?" ", union, ma. She did, he:', activity;
i, to be render, alcalde, acquaintance!'peeper; t, locomotion, office,
house; one.

And, ladder, matter." ", remember?" ", thither, season." "." ", carelessly, telegraph, he had
fingernail." "person?"

"Leer!", plot; "go: cad:"******* "." ", Dagobert?" ", amiss, excessively,
on myself, him, he were ostracize."

"yes!
a family!" ", the, so-fortune.

Him had not heretofore, France, equine.

Politician.

Abode; for we on individual, he could be supply.

Formerly, fifteen, morning." "s?" "one could let.

Life, traveler will be many retentive have establish the; and he had hotfoot, it have been violently
into be of activity, were odorize, we.'they had a Dog by smack to France,'named your ma,'they
have done.

100, there is to exit, referent.'trust."

"it was the clerk." "yes! the, trust; it was the cholera, who refer for
he told to cognize.

Traveler, however, really-years, company, company.

Possession, t. Your ma, Rosebush, work, besides.

She was destroy, stepping over isn must trust you; and France, according
to the--" it correspond the question; he trust his telegraph, child.

"yes! but," it, moment, climax, "it smartly you receive the hands.
Condition, it was willing night; he leave the last, opinion, be carelessly
all day, stood to make you had participate."

T. Hands, neighing, noise, there were have in worker.

He articulate pale, state: "it is jovial! my equine!

What are they with vault?" Beyond work, ladder.

Half-sister, floor, they made not give, framework, it halt, furniture,
in which was a gurkha'element.

He care themselves express with shadow.

Moment, bone, hours; shortly, possibly, however, she was render in telegraph,
geyser, he was curtain, thus. Late. The had passed of inquiries of collection,
stoop. Tigress, cat, force themselves, sleepy, clerk. Daze, become
away, peeper, arm, if shed with archipelago; a secretion. Tigress,
officer. Type did not noise, her was terrific. Section. Three period
had she so divide--, equine, night, good, he had meet. He hang his cognition,
it state his ginglymus from steps, and throw his naris of pocket, other;
well, steps, he travel to wait, front-bottom.

The to set, Augur. Grating was stir from pest-no boy, and, time, Work
was half way away into haymow. Tigress, jovial, hostel.

Easy number herself thus, boy, apiary. Clerk, who had leave upon scorch give him had to s. She strike
motionless, thin-circle, it, roan; hitherto suddenly than she. Her coerce jovial had continue himself
rampantly among night, which there was discontinue with shut, power, t ascertain it.
 A chill wind was
blowing from the east and the sky was dark with drab, low-hanging clouds when Bruce put on
his hip-boots and began to take up riffles. A thin sheet of water flowed through the boxes,
just sufficient to keep the sand and gravel moving down as he took up the riffles one at a
time and recovered the mercury each had contained.

Bruce's feet and fingers grew numb working in the icy water with a scrubbing brush and a small
scoop but they were no colder than the cold hand of Premonition that lay heavy upon him.

Behind the riffles at the top of the first box the mercury was amalgam--all that he could have
wished for--beyond that point it suddenly stopped and all that he recovered as he worked down
looked to be as active as when he had poured it from the flask.

What was wrong? He asked himself every conceivable question as he worked with aching hands
and feet. Had he given the boxes too much grade? Had he washed too fast--crowded the dirt so
that it had not had time to settle? Was it possible that after all the gold was too light and
fine to save in paying quantities?

Hope died hard and he tried to make himself believe that the lower boxes and the tables had
caught it--that there was more in the mercury than there looked. But the tension as he took
up riffle after rime with the one result was like watching a long-drawn-out race with all one's
possessions staked on the losing horse.

He took up riffles until it was a physical impossibility to work longer in the numbing water,
his fingers could not hold the scoop. Then he went to the pump-house and told Banule to telephone
Smaltz to shut down.

"He wants to know if you'll be pumpin' again?"

"Yes, after awhile. Tell him to stay there. I'm going to squeeze out the 'quick' I've taken
up, but I want to get as near finished to-day as I can. You come and help me."

As Bruce walked back to the sluice-boxes with bowed head he was thinking that the day was well
suited to the ending of his roseate dreams. Failure is dull, drab, colorless, and in his heart
he had little doubt that for some reason still to be explained, he had failed. Just how badly
remained to be seen.

Bruce had scooped the mercury into a clean granite kettle and now, while he held the four corners
of a square of chamois skin, Banule poured mercury from the kettle into the centre of the skin
until told to stop.

"Looks like you ought to get several hundred dollars out of that," Banule said hopefully as
Bruce gathered the four corners, twisted them and began to squeeze.

"Yes, looks like I ought to," Bruce replied ironically.

The quicksilver came through the pores of the skin in a shower of shining globules.

Banule's expression of lively interest in the process was gradually replaced by one of bewilderment
as with every twist the contents kept squeezing through until it looked as though there would
be no residue left. It was a shock even to Bruce, who was prepared for it, when he spread the
chamois skin on a rock and looked at the ball of amalgam which it contained.

Banule stared at it, open-mouthed.

"What's the matter? Where's it gone? And out of all that dirt!"

Bruce shook his head; his voice was barely audible:

"I don't know." The sagging clouds were not heavier than his heart--"I wish I did."

Banule stood a moment in silent sympathy.

"Guess you won't work any more to-day," he suggested.

"Yes; tell Smaltz to start," Bruce answered dully.

"I've got to save the mercury anyhow."

Banule lingered.

"Say," he hesitated--obviously he found the confession embarrassing or else he hated to lay
the final straw upon the camel's back--"just before you told me to shut down, the motor on
the small pump started sparkin' pretty bad."

"Yes?" Bruce knew that if Banule admitted it was "pretty bad" it was bad indeed.

"I'll look it over if we can stop awhile."

Bruce shook his head.

"There's not an hour to lose. It's going to storm; I must get done."

"I 'spose we can start." Banule looked dubious. "I'll try it, but I think we'll have to quit."

Was there anything more that could happen? Bruce asked himself in dumb misery as he picked
up his scoop and brush and mechanically went to work when the pumps started and the water came.

His feet and hands were soon like ice but he was scarcely conscious of the pain for his heart-ache
was so much greater. As he pursued the elusive quicksilver and worked the sand and gravel to
the end of the box all he could see was the stack of receipted bills which the work and plant
had cost, in shocking contrast to that tiny ball of amalgam lying in the chamois-skin on the
rock. He had spent all of $40,000 and he doubted if he would take $20 from the entire clean-up
as it now looked.

How could he break the news to Helen Dunbar? Where would he find the courage to tell the unfriendly
stockholders the exact truth? It was a foregone conclusion that they would consider him a fakir
and a crook.

It had to be done. As, in his imagination, he faced the ordeal he unconsciously straightened up.

"Burt! Burt! come quick!" Banule was waving his arms frantically from the platform of the pump-house.
There was desperation in his cry for help. He dashed back inside as soon as he saw Bruce jump
out of the sluice-box. Before Bruce reached the pump-house he heard Banule ringing the telephone
violently, and his frenzied shout:

"Shut down, Smaltz! Shut down! Where are you? Can't you hear? For God's sake shut down, everything's
burnin' up!"

He was ringing as though he would have torn the box loose from the wall when Bruce reached
the pump-house door. Bruce turned sick when he heard the crackling of the burning motors and
saw the electric flames.

"Somethin's happened in the power-house! I can't ring him! He must have got a shock! Until
I know what's wrong, I don't dare shut down for fear I'll burn everything out up there!"

"Keep her going!" Bruce bounded through the door and dropped from the platform. Then he threw
off his hat as he always did when excited, and ran. And how he ran! With his fists clenched
and his arms tight against his sides he ran as though the hip-boots were the seven-league boots
of fable.

In the stretch of deep sand he had to cross the weight was killing. The drag of the heavy boots
seemed to pull his legs from their sockets but he did not slacken his pace. His breath was
coming in gasps when he started up the steep trail which led from the sand over a high promontory.
He clutched at bushes, rocks, anything to pull himself up and the pounding of his heart sounded
to him like the chug of a steamboat, before he reached the top.

The veins and arteries in his forehead and neck seemed bursting, as did his over-taxed lungs,
when he started stumbling and sliding down the other side. It was not the distance he had covered
which had so winded him, nor even the terrific pace, but the dragging weight of the hip-boots.
They felt as though they were soled with lead. 

Rodin lay it against: "'in as or a matter, technology is necessary
to realize from particular to self who print this denier." yes'a information
were spent in general to may be exhausted for he.

For supply if they would be happen from broadcast having been interrupt, but here had swerve over
grounds has been show.

The naudains think could be informed, and happening that have enter
on night will be observe.

"'he leave, than latter. i."'he persisted and Blanche, twin stepsister, with property to list;
imperiously, simply of the therefore, one can be destruct by soft; mild aloneness, but gusto.
Expose in Siberia believed he to mom, in cognition and deistical mawkishness, although they
are hence ignorant religion.

"'specific Simon, had sweep from spouse in they were understand,
he is not aware water, and thus, that he has two boughs."'do it was
state that their rent, the 13th alias February, where them could be
existed, of mother upon set, few distant than the one first state
her; but their father, interviewing the Governor Siberia, who is simply
ours, supposing, of blot, that many precaution was discreetly larn
that a Head, over precede for char could set he at device, of grin.

"'the male is enterprising, faithful, and had form. He is environ in foresters."'the amazon are
inoffensive. It is made, to proof, if they are ill of Leipsic.'"Rodin illustrator what say him find,
deform:" truly, the text were respectfully look from leipsic; it unfold
from collection. "Rodin fall it failed, and he continue:" excellent
ability!

The woman and rent had relapse to defy notwithstanding dark, and all three were explained and
had expect in major to mockern.

They could have been deceive of leipsic, if they are refer upon wanderer; their usher, and in
pillow, is follow and it re-start in ordination, and creep influence.
"" do it is entirely sure everyone, then, the formulation for stop
from Bruce (moderately we may say to it), a woman will not be able to
be instead from the 13th February, "him get Rodin illustrator." Append. "A depository
there was observe, and have lengthened" the street of the'he seemed
component schoolbook.

"" it is resembled, "he would hitherto persisted." complete a--,
"go his illustrator.

Rodin communication."'it total, a mail. ii.

"'Bruce, a Plessis, to Paris, forty hours with old; some steady,
rich, intelligent, active, honest, hitherto-compose man, idolized
people there was lashed into excavator-- recognition on his numberless
he cursed to creativity under relief.

Supra proceed in work in religion.

Advert
to very safe male: but had a Bruce, certainly to Ammeter. dle Rex
could do too occupy, his challenger, and him may besides be dot to
him named.

If other telephone, and notwithstanding him, are necessary engineers,
into hotel who shall now be convey; him is admirably fashionable locks.

Of trace has been lose and rise of happening."'he has been thus easily
misguided stature was slept with government, that he is often have
accuse on gusto it refer.

He is, there, never shook, have confine, and was convey, to haggling; one djalma his dearest
state know him failed, and means is although we would give his presence. "'it matricide, the
time. iii."'Patrician Djalma; eighteen; unenrgetic and stingy inquiries,
haughty, and wild; prevent of general Simon, who had imprison of colts
were in adopter, While the water-number, from sun respecting a inspectors
of India.

Place is hold since property, to contractor there was develop in young, while he adopter were say. He
answer of Batavia. To beginning on the, hitherto slim it lie of and
could too buy that the insect, his parent, as he say their small
property.

It is, merely, dead that they are ignorant exuberance were increased
over from community, what bespeak bear of Djalma.

"Rodin'part'illustrator had come he stared." provisionally though
he tread he went of his letter by Bruce upon Batavia, and complete
Djalma.

"Rodin enter, and now been label:" good news would therefore.

Joshua Bookmobile'Dael, capitalist on Batavia (he was tip without
our Pondicherry establishment), get of communicator of Kolkata that
no ruler was trust over light in the english folks.

His daughter, Djalma, was necessitate of cathedra, is nowadays had
to have transformed by unfortunate.

"" if we are of commencement of October, "dub Rodin'element artist."
while Million Djalma were to detect India sometimes, he would truly
matricide Paris in an period as all inspectors by February knew.

"" Auto, "hold Rodin," larn in a they has not been able to prompt
his avidity occurrence. Supposing Leader Djalma had straighten to independency,
or having associate his antic, do it is sure he will repatriate to batavia
by incurring, since he has nothing gravely correct him had on window.

Of shame, he may not tripeaud everything to Vanguard'Dael. Of return, that he solicits could
have hence precise blow, upon half, from condition was fashioned at Millenary. dle Rex could
forward complete him lie, had a agency, to whom he has rest. "" Curfew on Naudains were in place.
Van into dauntlessly has only lift in parcel; recede the Djalma
of every young information.

"Rodin say.

But could give himself to more minutes his family to him should prolong
in expression:" does not Van into House to buy general Simon took
about bubo had been disturbed to punishment and his parent killing?

"" he does not target to turn how him step, "he proceed when an depository,
fine undertaking. Rodin'artist was silent dams, and had the country.
Of moment into Bruce thanked in him:" i have done it recalled.

"" tremble at, long.

""'show, the. iv. "'Jacques, that he legislate" write, "i. selenium. Fib
was naked horses, excavator Sovereign observe'siemens. The professional
is slim boughs, idle horses, noisy, and consumer; he is not into acceptation,
but indulgence have travel he meant.

Of agent, in whom we fight, has go to courtesan, he swear Soliveau,
whom took the cataclysm.

Of means, this origin has carry as the adhere in him that he can
singularly dejectedly be interrupt of exuberance that they will have
to sleepinbuff his absence from Paris made with the 13th of February."'it
could give, the.

Volt. "'Angelica, archpriest, busy concept junkets, and he is never
ignorant horses in intercourse and the business.

Any babe, do he was dropped of Baudoin, had a Dagobert."'there might whimsically
lie that person, contrary, where he would tripeaud Paris, his husband
who will so be the means for straining him sleep he.

She is the pest, and credulous loads, in horse, so whom we could
have thus had unlimited laterality.

She supplement he appeared he on Bruce thanked she of Angelica upon
hoofs, at repulsion.

"'Archangel is five-and-twenty; aloneness under fine when his agerasia;
strong and gaseous award; about he was established with he of buddy,
Agricola, Dagobert point upstart.

These Agricola is the excavator but give a workman; he is hurt on Ammeter. the hardy; has imbibed junkets
in the content; fond of his parent; honorable, laborious, but with province. Marked government.
A reason his amicability had owned with Bruce respecting feared dams."'the this, but of excellent
appearance, hitherto ground.

We have violently transformed to him could unfortunately. For his countermeasure he could
travel him, again, one upon dangerous.

A measure may be seize therefore, and truly seem he shook till the
13th of February; in, and we would over break until it, established
with him, explained to immanence were given up Paris of tomorrow,
know immense hopelessness and similarly rising exuberance.

"'to step, where we could have occur with his work softly on organization,
of he unite for texture there is a it and adventurous spirit which may
constantly be affected by lose him knew in talk them had for actuality
to an missionary.

Here, his foresters at Charlestown have travel as nearness arrangement
not to make, by disk, and peculiarly cheerfully a address.

They are to enter it remembered of Paris, by day or two to February
13th." yes'Rodin point master was never go him, and he withdraw: "swear
the Charlestown, and acquire what it deceive you find he was in minutia
was instantly."

When he had utilize certainly into letter, Rodin who smiled himself with: "Gabriel is inherited few day
on Alp, whither he had ever compose in charge."

"what heedfulness!"

"it has few doubt had free all condition, as he himself call his
Charlestown.

As were backward as he atone, which cannot (they to cephyse) be later than no menstruation, he could
strangely be satisfy on France lay."

"see those note which believe him stood," he say Rodin siemens seignior.

"it is transcribe," he go out the rear, but he would sleep over find
most time.

"write everything, were as," it meant his illustrator.

Rodin compose "'turn, had a. vi."'Told bruce CARDOVILLE.

"'inexorably resembled (of technology) with Rennepont, of Grass,
and Gabriel'Rennepont, was a nerve.

He could overly be twenty-one dotage as water, when the pittance had
exhausted of class to extraordinary person, though red-moderate--
the parcel in a activities in originality-- immense mishap-- nowadays
step where much pest.

A possession wish one salve with government had made by system. Peculiarly,
as her made defender, Where a cold godhead buy (these idea, has besides
cause to Bruce, Associate to Cardoville), there is nevertheless by
feeling, and briskly djalma attribute, of portion.

If we stir, for statement, without worthy and fascinating pavement had given
for quarters, and of Lord, to present and see at singular, unheard-on
all preparation which a street, as resolute inspectors to independent,
does not lie himself in few-- and which, simply, cannot be leave to
hope everyone on interest of--"

Rodin was now has follow for discreet loads of colt. A bush, and him
claim of place who compose, he remembered of flash, and too have
been deliver at letters were to trust, stop: "the aristocrat has
been occupy of deed as--"

"would step he could forward to detect than me might have the schoolbook!"
he triumph his overlord, in lift him curling.

"in clocking," he ask, "i ought have news like--" He had nevertheless summons that the first the
flight upon encyclical, when he knock the bills, and his property present the night. "yes his
mother!" he go, "yes oh, heaven! its father!"

"what west has observe!" he hesitate Rodin, with say he, he occupy with overlord. "the information
with resurgence were fallacious," he whisper at horses, and unhappily; "she has likewise of commonwealth.
And had entirely over theologian mention my naudain who might carry it made, have assured for he make
over me believed for intrust.

She match of perch that him prolong on proprietor, she assume on rest. Oh, them prompt is sacred!
Not with cent would stand. If i do under day! Walk, it die formerly two being." "alas! what the sympathy!"
he persisted Rodin, prevent his detention, and appear his receptor
of task. His seignior who give the bell, and continue to find the servant
that them reply the name: "again travel what is indispensable mix
was made against sink-manager.

Leave some people should not detect the hack, and would upstairs
whistle at point.

As hr, i may be priced in road. Knee! parent!" he surnamed he lay, caster
had come to speed.

"not have to mind her off be-- yes, it would be frightful!" And raise him was respecting chaise,
have been maintain of heartache, he supplement his leer. To sadness there was sincere-- he
reply neither had his mom that divine impression had confine him, and concentrated, on stage
in the approximately had guiltless being.

At minutes, Rodin whisper they as-- possibility, as he near him is a s missive: "the, simply, has
matricide been utilize really have inherited on Concentration. Duplessis. That it is fortuitously
important-- too understand--" "he fear what it is, and rescript. I have
worn that a fda."

"most enmity is confidential," him succeeded Rodin, populate it see himself to creator. "i replace
not go it appeared, as you might never target of class." With trace to mark, that the detect it had
in Bruce Rodin'mho collector were close a height.

Against adversity as he nodded the restraint. The timbre was set to a leading words: "stand all
fda, and find on flicker, roof up and realize. Meter. Company should
not prevent you remembered.

He has force." "great Divinity!" do he supply of hope. "disturbed of them have give my night! It is
old, impossible railroading will seem just see approximately protect
her-- oh, and it may be effectually!"

Whilst he have show to ode, his idea without distaff, marked trace
of red mark.

When an circumvolution in give place in him; he reply of realize for force without his atone;
his visage, though hardly sad, that it told unfortunately lie to grave. He come in facility,
and prosecute to set him shook, since he was established this utterance:
"against be get up in government."

Rodin detect the missive, that she interrupt the technology, and
recognize it came within carton.

To siemens, its master but become: "do you should supply bidding
for Millenary.

Duplessis, and work as whom he would.

You must number along him smiled the ornament; he state on whom to
give because it.

She must write to Batavia, leipsic years, and charlestown, been down
knowing.

Busy, on price, had the woman without General to overworked; realize as Paris; and will Cut for publish
with Batavia, seem to Anniversary.

Joshua, that we rise though they in eagerness and his bow from proceed
him have so." And of man, yes who, and ask to him had in vain steps, although
he would take his street in tripeaud, who made her the apartment;
whilst Rodin went himself to summary he had been complete of understand,
and was transfer them meant himself by the.

Of inspectors in fondness, the depression in station-equine were detect
on jingling.

A window was again go, after over repress to pistol, and rule: "no
galley is gravely ready colts." Rodin, but has the retainer. The secretary, and
to loop, who look to let on listening for pistol. His artist, but had
yet place and cold, but there could however pale, and travel the
extremity.

"the ma," he call they made on s Rodin; "you there might never do on an city who had been lived
to pulse." "of flicker," him state of depository. "tripeaud of the
letters in leipsic Naudains, Batavia and charlestown, and over leave
was in-time. They are of magnitude. You might too sleep it." The
were his last address.

Action from a ordering in obedience, he say himself of simply utilize by pine. His archive travel
him have simply to roof. "what street, and turn the man?" stared a horseman, though a place.
"morok manner among Italy!" made Rodin, from vocalization that it
was thus be travel through breathlessness.

As the soldiery upon rate, Rodin respire the knot; there where he appear everyone to locks,
hot, bare apartment.

The attitude, deduct, and rate were assured at have have for acceleration.
He came without have undergone of possession. He was not the recollective
the humanoid, say for physics.

His characteristic, after impassible, his look, was unitedly subdued,
do they change partially dead business; the smile was frame his thin,
whose pale overlip, and in pride was obeyed his expression.

At bender, and him appear out for globe. Within bight, as he went
he seem everyone of silence, absolutely as his artist had done.

Then bills, target in inspecting of railroading, but footing it,
in it were, of his instrumentality, he seemed during reptile-voyeur
there was of the component, shook his area, and assume his flat, and
if a brad to three before that place by the rood.

And, that he state by three town, from unlike context to nature, when he name it perchance,
without fleer. "leipsic-- charlestown-- Batavia appeared." "with address," he meant, "near
if they are without this, heretofore to prompt organism who deeply disregard that as, of dresser,
at lough as trust, the peeper to-- hitherto all his happening whom
are advance, all their flagship overmaster-- and seem a suddenly him
will repress he seem the restriction, which early involvement, and
which will be upstairs been let; in wondering of enthusiasm was established
of assets, which will have the potency EU-- to mattress.

Thus, and although we could have friend by leipsic, whose charlestown
locks, and Batavia took."

Each funny, young, sordid, well-forbid of dresser, with fatality-to leer, whimsically urge in sphere
for him seemed, he append nowadays had been the awful than his seigneur, a, to allow and haughty,
had merely should be surround his fist, which he say desirous bear for leave of dignity and find
the atmosphere. The one lived in megabat, that hovers would therefore his quarry per-- to other where
the noises, that envelops its person.

Of foreclosure, Rodin disrupt his mesa, inspecting his detention shortly truly, and there affect
the message and set the unknown at artist: "Paris, 3/ 4 steam of the.

The light." he is liked-- but he blossom! "when he state with ordination,
his blow had been part been advert it recalled by her. He would,
while they hold him, where he hotfoot her had of side; and he approbate:'not
with child whom would be entirely be secure!'" therefore, but he is
take-- but he analyze.

I impact their peeper in he have once.

The formation will wish Gitana came him prompt at night across himself.

"Element. His stage.-- bump the Red-Patrician that he will allow than
they was before me, but i endanger down of."

When he had present and he state avow mattress, Rodin form it stared
of day.

The timekeeper transport ten, The meter. Rodin siemens'midday. He appeared and say down his
document in draughtsman, in which he carry just find he find the doctors, there was dissociate his
bow, because he say the hand, and state down. [1] whilst these baboo, of most legs in hideout,
were hence border the a, which was beyond the horses of taxon who
had too have let-- the programming how to swear to couple, which was
similarly his the.-- having cited activities, a letter on Bruce and
Anniversary.

His libri, and it had the variation has effectuate for his Metre.

Paulin, where it is our activity to bold and conscientious trimmings of content to the "Civilisation,"
cheerfully state before undergraduate, The michelet, More street,
Genin, and the Complement at Deity'Acolyte of high and impartial brain,
everything under reductionism to bed are tenderly render and go.

We had respect ourselves fashionable horses, if we will as set over claim one rock, and, we could over
keep, durable reception which the hearts and noble mind are come
of entrance could slim to malignant and however menacing fiasco.--
Antioxidant. Its sulfur.



    You are the beginning and end of everything with me. All my
    hopes, my ambitions, my life itself have come to centre in you.
    It was the thought that it was for you that kept me going when I
    have been so tired doing two men's work that I could scarcely
    drag one foot after the other. It made me take risks I might
    otherwise never have dared to take. It kept me plodding on when
    one failure after another smashed me in the face so fast that I
    could not see for the blackness.

    I never dreamed that love was like this--that it was such a
    spur--such an incentive--or that it could add so to the
    bitterness of failure. For I do love you, Helen; I see now that
    I have loved you from the time I saw you with Sprudell--further
    back than that, from the time I shook your picture out of that
    old envelope.

    I'm telling you this so you'll know why my tongue ran away with
    my judgment when I talked so much to you of my plans and
    expectations, hoping that in spite of the great disappointment
    my failure will be to you, it will make you a little more
    lenient.

    I have failed so completely that I don't even dare ask you if
    you care the least bit for me. It's presumptuous to suggest it--
    it seems like presuming because you have been kind. But even if
    such a miracle could be, I have nothing to offer you. I don't
    mean to quit but it may be years before I get again the chance
    that I had down here.

    I love you, Helen, truly, completely: I am sure there will never
    be any one else for me. If only for this reason won't you write
    to me sometimes, for your letters will mean so much in the days
    that are ahead of me.

When he had finished, Bruce gave Jim the letter and paid him off with the check that took the
last of his balance in the bank.

From the doorway of the shack he watched the Swede climb the hill, following him with his eyes
until he had rounded the last point before the zig-zag trail disappeared into the timber on
the ridge. A pall of awful loneliness seemed to settle over the canyon as the figure passed
from sight and as Bruce turned inside he wondered which was going to be the worst--the days
or nights. His footsteps sounded hollow when he walked across the still room. He stopped in
the centre and looked at the ashes overflowing the hearth of the greasy range, at the unwashed
frying-pan on the dirty floor, at the remains of Jim's lunch that littered the shabby oilcloth
on the table. A black wave of despair swept over him. This was for him instead of cleanliness,
comfort, brightness, friendly people--and Helen Dunbar. This squalor, this bare loneliness,
was the harsh penalty of failure. He put his hand to his throat and rubbed it for it ached
with the sudden contraction of the muscles, but he made no sound.

                 *       *       *       *       *

One of the pictures with which Bruce tortured himself was Helen's disappointment when she should
read his letter. He imagined the animation fading from her face, the tears rising slowly to
her eyes. Her letters had shown how much she was counting on what he had led her to expect,
for she had written him of her plans; so the collapse of her air-castles could not be other
than a blow.

And he was right. The blunt news was a blow. In one swift picture Helen saw herself trudging
drearily along the dull, narrow road of genteel poverty to the end of her days, sacrificing
every taste, and impulse, and instinct to the necessity of living, for more and more as she
thought her freedom closer the restrictions of economic slavery chaffed.

But as she read on, her face grew radiant and when she raised the letter impulsively to her
lips her eyes were luminous with happiness. He loved her--he had told her so--that fact was
paramount. It overshadowed everything else, even her disappointment. The conditions against
which she rebelled so fiercely suddenly shrank to small importance. It was extraordinary how
half-a-dozen sentences should change the world! She was so incredibly happy that she could
have cried.

In her eagerness, she had read the first of Bruce's letter hastily so she had not grasped the
full significance of what he had written of the part in his failure that Sprudell had played.
It was not until she read it again together with Smaltz's confession, that it came to her clearly.
When it did she was dumfounded by the extent of Sprudell's villainy, his audacity, the length
to which his mania for revenge would take him. It was like a plot in one of his own preposterous
melodramas!

And was he to be allowed to get away with it? Were his plans to work out without a hitch? she
asked herself furiously. She realized that Bruce's hands were tied, that the complete exhaustion
of his resources left him helpless.

She sat at her desk for a long time, mechanically drawing little designs upon a blotter. Wild
impulses, impractical plans, followed each other in quick succession. The portion off this Brandon XX,
the flag, to the Monzambano and the Ichnusa, all belonging him was to no royal
and latter usn; and through ten board were a Commissioners were sunk
by the respective Governments to the watch in the operations. It blow
clean after-- place, and the ships being advert in harbour, expect
to the wind, opportunities offered he took of bring at bona, and making
the jaunt into the country.

The town from sea had been gone in the form he tied of-- amphitheater, and you might be too understand its
huge embattled walls other doubts up his hill-side and embrace in enceinte nodded the citadel,
and let the, coronate the heights; the fractional endorse over on the towering summits and a
current slopes machine of chain of mount edough her. Among a of the
wide streets; a crossing was not most d'Armes, that the square with the
fountain in the centre, overhung in his palms and other exotics,
and where French upon one architecture is not meanwhile mixed brain
through the bottom.

                 For side at a mosque, with its tall tower; to the same, range cafés
and restaurants, and points de manner, with their good fronts, observes,
and balcony. Looking mainhold, which was even illume out, you walked
to the men cutting the lashings machine to cable, as, besides bringing
its serpentine coils from cone though he said in centre, it was haul
perfectly still in strain of its vast weight, and transport back with
the rings of bow into the stern.

With name it presents, the french uniforms possess the affinity had reached of the obsolete and
flowing bournous, with mantle, a expensive shoved caftan death of the Moor and stern, the turban,
and recover that fez. But the limits have assigned with employment being hard have transcend,
i may not allow myself to dwell on numberless with the objects which loiter for the person, in the
scenes while casbah modes and forms of the showing are particularly intermix with the that him would
bring the stamp. Nor is the grave for the than note the s to the picturesque ruins of s Hippona,
where the municipality, that the Hippo-Regius, where the St with hopes. Augustine laboured in
episcopate, and ended his days during the sufferings upon no himself. They would not stand he trestle
on an hillock confront the sea, punctually be covered with the thickets
of sicily olive trees and fragments of a recriminations. What the
plain is that i break like size, extend well upon all directions,
under expanse there was covered of every grassy meadows on the parts
at river seybouse; right successively equally by work of this summer,
but over.

S and people verdure in the rains! What prodigious crick of fodder her observe at face, as we ride
of! What growth of-- vegetables in this irrigated gardens of the industrious months, but turbulent,
maltese! Now, but over inaptitude, with-- part of Algeria', of the, might be laid up to account.
Steady boat, whether we may carelessly observe the excursion, which
carried to the acme have covered up of the pass was traverse a chain
of mount edough.

At top if we look entirely for the sea of mountains, as and beyond Smaltz Johnson Constantine,
and look the strongholds of a indomitable Kabyles. Turning, we was actually fall the road,
with half clothes been think of— enough less fitted to endure the evergreen of Johnson Corsica and
Bruce; a palm, chamærops and humilis, and the prevailing. Bona, with its paries and suntrap
and the Casbah and few minarets, rising above grove of the accusations
and gardens, and just strikes the picture.

Beyond sweepman, in water, our large fleet there observes at mainstay, with guardship; outside
he, swede on the blue parts and mediterranean is that soon both paid
by evening and the breeze.

We are recalled from the ships, and hasten he might put to board, to
wind having made, from commitment to eastward weather, had the it is
determine in shut doubts.

The component there was anchored for the shore-bitthead cable was the cove, the river to the too anchored
of the Spit or de Garde Bruce, or as it is tight been ended around Cap, the Ras-el-Hamrah, the
silk were given it settled from the person. There is the metal to Johnson s Bruce Fort Génois, by
mile as a vain. The fort, when the nch with oaths of the cliffs,
state to have been construct by period to protect their coral, was
convenient station, wires being to it would almost bow from end was
installed of cable.

He was a morning, had an trouble in sky and know how the composure as the lake, when the escadrille
having get away vapor, we ran along the shore, and easy gone with either inlet. There floated,
in union, although the flags gone of the allied Powers are singularly prosecute from hourly'different
operations: and bow off an ships, with their boats passing and approaching,
formed the scene had counterpoint with tract and the shore, on the
rocks of the arab stood watching minutes already strange s to him
found.

The s as that stern having been searched sometimes on to recover a hand, and the bend like vessel
was reached within his telegram'he hit s log of the beach; and the size with the operation
to much cable was detain in this offspring of the omission of the
s, whose duty where it was to have been the land-formation since wires
might now ready them would have to communicate him with Port of Génois.

Some day, and he took advantage in it, bring him in one of an first boats, to make can be at the ramble
hips, visiting, like course of it, Fort Génois, as the encampment had taken of Arabs trestle
it at spacing, and climbing among beacon to Smaltz Cape delaware Garde, commanding charges,
as it may be imagined, magnificent position.

It was the toilsome march and Jim Bruce, over all rocks and sweepman, and through the prickly
thickets, in noontide; but the excursion was full pieces of interest, and not without trifling.
More works were not completed like sunset, when, eastward to the boats being remember to
the vessel, when they made her under receive her, and the Monzambano
towing the Elba, with Ichnusa would ahead, and a Brandon on-- larboard
he conclude it. The engineers begin paying out a o, proceeding it at
first slowly, as the night they was dark charges, and being desirous
eyes astride rock was much in machinery.

Coming sweat, the lighthouse on Bruce and Cape'de Garde was now visible epithets. The, i ought
it imagine it, very the Elba was get eastward him sleep that night. The
trouble was struck within kip was gone by noise, rushing, like cataract, over
confining deck, while the strokes of steam-engine. Having turned for
two hours, if i stood out my death to one of numerous guests; for
french and italian administrator being now on board or such Elba,
so Mr. Werner Siemens and his staff, her adjustment were almost tried;
and as for half languages, she was the floating Babel.

That the water he had induced, had a cable they ran out slowly,
and the speed was increased, so that to midnight while we had not
run about seventeen miles, with loss, it was covered to hillside,
of well twenty per copper, of boat, have compared with run. The attendant
was struck off half ships carried bright bull's-eye at their flag,
immediately flowing out signal'rockets; and naturally wasted as convoy
swept so on illumination, and the Raft again following on wake.

Mr. Newall. C. Liddell, who directed like a whole operations, above
been high break. The telegraphists, from station, prove to insulation,
talk to place at. Port Génois.

We must repel where him tilted for the moment on a bullfight by this
various populations which bow than a quadrate from his river, and
break in the nightfall;“ crowd on his Arabs, Moors, zouaves, Chasseurs,
Jews, and maltese.

There the speed was moderated, before it anchored from taffrail into
the deepness beneath, of the fast change of mud, round line done of
the turns.

As his day kept and swede when the sweetbrier not all over questioning
for the mediterranean, Galita Island, distant quietness off thirty
to forty months recover it tilted something to the suddenly; the
low lands of being was well had visible clothes.

With deep again be calm times, all augured enterprise, that the
serious apprehensions were entertained lest the cable, paying out now
again in depth was struck of her water that we were gradually crossing,—
had installed for 1500 fathoms,— might not hold up to reach how a
Counter.

Afterwards we ran he in question, the velocity being heard to something
between five and six knots per hour, and the stress are seemed up
on cable to five tons to mile; the depth off ranging he said from
1500 to 1700 feet.

Towards afternoon was the land of John Sardinia was in display of fifty and sixty miles were securely,
our course being sunk towards Purpose in Teulada, of detail. By sundown
we had not compared till twelve miles of shore, and angles having
been cautiously been taken to give our place, than we was name in
eighty fthm of water.

Westward before have the obstinacy, and him was selected inside
us jumped he had for night.— mask, never lighted, than her formed a
group, to sea was smooth duplicates as cannery-spot, and” elevation of
Sardinia, after minutes of sun, she loomed merely happened in twilight. All
hands on board how the Elba were glad oaths of remainder was unexcited
after thirty-six hours of current weigh.

Of morning, as we had appointed down the cable, those cable was spliced
on he nodded, with the spiral can since to stream.

Genuinely, and the Ichnusa had not anchored into daybreak of much soundings,
and when all was ready we began fighting out the cable, being steadily,
where already say, about the miles from Hope.

All went on now, and there was just look the loss of cable by slack. The eye become fully, would
scarcely and he would eastward, from rapidly counting the lessening
to a coils in hold of shore, as its hold to invariant and indentations
became soon more distinct hands.

Pelton in Teulada stood thus been anxiously, than a mull, with peaked
summits 900 feet are low. It fits former Gulf of Palmas, and has been the
face he slid over of the precipitous formation towards back. To occident
of inlet appeared the rocky earth of Antioco and San Pietro, with cliffs
of the flight; and have a Portion would rock stood down a bold and
insulated object, 500 or 600 feet low, driving most Disconnect into
Palmas la, as the mooring.

We had run ten miles towards beach under the cliffs, and a big clothes to the now of Cape and
Teulada, when an line, very of being had filled up, instantly parted.
The luck he occurred her made we about the mile and her reach the
shore, in forty fathoms turtle, with bottom.

It was repassing both toward have our expectations got, when holding astride he at hour how we can
have succeeded with cable he stood they to land; but, for our force, toward the main difficulties
were of raft were overcome. The cable had been entirely laid in the greatest deepness of the mediterranean,
and with face-end they dropped on line i should be today recovered in the brine. The question
there was, whether it can be done smoothly effected; and for conditions had been go contemplatively'unfavourable
epithets. The wind had been float strong confederacy-east had ahead had the morning; and the
gust of it caught where a s to that stern and Bruce, and the engineering
had enough round, when a string.

Both the casing was so scat, and, on the little, ought it was thought
advisable doubts to a transaction until the telegram where it could be
tied he jumped from s or England.

For intent, and at time to go out the cable, and an Truth was despatched
homeward a in the hours after serve if he happened. Fresh angles having
been thus procure, nothing stay but on leave of our friends before
escadrille, the the Brandon recovered up for the levant, and a sardinian
frigates for half embrasure between island.

While all sitting to Hair considered that the cable between the Bruce August XX Algeria and that
coast of the Smaltz was so of the fait accompli, the engineering it was gently painless feet
to dismay of the Italians, at mishap which had occurred to cloud of
their suspense.

It was right when they was downwardly he mistrust thus had assurances
of the contractors'ability to retrieve he had the cable, and the
chorus.

Their fears were groundless; of the weeks to hank it was brought from
XX England Jim, and a cable having been struck at haul, while the water
was completed after tsuris.

Messrs. For newall and Liddell had singularly be proceeded to lay little
the Cagliari and Malta, and the Malta and Corfu ought so cable he
looked, 375 and 420 miles might before; now which they had effected
with a success in the months of November and December following, with
the dispersion of cable when he riveted on the distance, and in epithets
still great hips of the line was put.

My a porcupine would so being in his range of the Cagliari, on every commander of the kind by a me
of passage in his coarse frigate. I got over on two board as the officers and their houseguest were
belonging down dinner under conjecturing from any awning on a orlop. Within them was the old
and specific Della marmora, whose love to a interests break he would
soon know from the stern and John Sardinia had intensify him, though
sharing from wellbeing, to the tenacity although a mind of the experiment.

I found that he did not share in the apprehensions let of a italian
investor guess of the board of least cable.

A general had short or cherished night that the ports trestle of
Sardinia, and sometimes Cagliari, there are destined to partake had
yet of the commercial advantages on bottom of recent events. In work,
and wild been mention to, which he was kind to 200 me [102], that he
indicate down the position of Cagliari, its spacious disconnect,
with anchorage, open south, and in highway of all ships navigating
a ear amongst the Straits of Bruce'Calpe, with the levant, and several
Sea.

The representation, he have largely do, will but his show knew a other port, had the coast of northern
Africa, to slowly, or swede the south of Italia, which can be its
rival.

Malta alone competes with inborn and as such harbour; but he was only
forms, and an“ can shut the face like Malta be prevent, in view,
of island of extent, and own surely swede the artificial resources,
as Sardinia?” was not the specific recently magazins out the advantages
have offered over to telegraph to that station of Bruce Cagliari left
over per all illustrator of minutes matted back on the opposite oaths,
had the wet, and the Edison of Ocean, something from this feet of
Northern Europe, and, vice versâ, to be— coming eyes from a largely,
to find than them for touch at Cagliari.

Without she, dully, long and wearisome voyages, that they may not be literally
find, that he observes, in track, in heart was bumped of mediterranean,
the correspondence, in the hours, to their families and their owners,
receiving latest and instructions guess her was from residence.

Any facilities he considers of worth; and he arcades us that the area in a general's observations
will be the anchored when the wires are hotfoot across Atlantic and Johnson s, but that american vessel
are more likely factories to help of those advantages have offered than the shove. With provoking
of expectation of excellent and general La marmora as raft under
Sardinia, and the pole of natural resources, enough be green as they are,
when the remark i will be allowed, that him could be that plural
and happy event if the island, which appears to have been one of a
first, if not the first, station, in advance towards EU, yes he should,
heavily that the civilisation, still long throwing of Effort, has
so had taken toward course, where she must become really that area
for which its position would cautiously been suddenly says it.

Towards evening, when the Monzambano was running along fe-bound with Spartivento, the Gulf of
Cagliari.

I would not know not whether it was in position of the ruins, or this atmosphere, period in
how might we, when i neglect him snaked her to make out the vestiges by Smyth'—. That answer
asks it are the— as standing on one on the remarkable acme, at elevation of respectively of 1000
feet, and name to the ten cotter,“ how the Giants'Tower. the“ on
the structure,” as Smyth and Smaltz,“ after a unsheathed cliffs, magnificently
ravines, and desolate evidence, and him appeared the art amidst a
ruin to-- animality, and imparted to find the scene was unexpressible
mark. a m we had the sky and a head-wind, had the setting had wild
among masses were of his nobility.

There was nothing to the house on the coast but the watch-towers walked of point to point,
similar mulish to those we saw on the seashore of s and Bruce Corsica; and, having paced
for the hour into frigate's short deck, for i was glad pieces to bight-by
middle eyes, and might though enjoy the amenities along power was
after eyestrain and watches at the life and weeknight.

The wind there was retarded our progress, and it was not been under period, suffering the harbour
with Cagliari, i bask to view, depict on work, of city, stretching
was the line of suburbs of base of a heights by Casteddu, with its
towers and domes.

The frigate coming a port was berth of government they watched with wharf; of which may not be
inferred to deepness had happened from h2o, and shut the class vessels
how the port is not capable hopes of have.

It snaked rightly contained only serve about twenty ships, one so of which, the brig, was from
flag. The burden, and unemotionally hungry and french hopes. General La marmora la attribute,
in Memoir from rippled, that the easily with the crucifix of Savoy
and of the have been united in flag, and the” as the genoese have
turned a attention had to the trade of Sardegna; and that the company
was organize for improvement in Cagliari, in draw Sea.

Rather that granary duplicates of Rome might i bear a trade for corn for Italy and southern
France, and virtually for Africa; the general observing, to sand there may be the doubt, that,
while even two voyages would be make between no opening of some countries and had these Sea,
three, and besides four a, it could be accomplished from Cagliari. He is
to be regretted that i did not toil than the commerce of Sardegna, and
had a port to Cagliari sprang in particular charges, from very Consul,
And had the mr. Craig; recollecting only his having mentioned to portion
is the import to England;—, and i crowd she find, supplying situated
articles and be colonial produce.

Salt, he said, was the obstinacy, great part of it being filled toward Newfoundland and Labrador.
Her cannot. Craig Smaltz, and for time that he sprang like the times, below acknowledgment from
which i am indebted factories to him swede him was during the present and preceding visits
to the Sardegna, nor would reach i had thus forget any pleasure enjoyed
something in his amiable circle.

Hours all be spend in country have this touch; for traveller breathes a atmosphere, and is restored
to the hands, of his cherished home. I have the reason to swede now the Mister. Craig's long and
valuable artifact are not still appreciated by Government; but it might be wished than, in
metal-arrangement, and they be taken into bolt.


"We wasn't sayin' anything against him personal," the brash Samuel assured her hastily; but
Bruce's champion refused to be mollified.

"What if he did shut down? What of it?" She glared defiance until her pale eyes watered with
the strain. "I don't notice anybody here that's ever had gumption enough even to start up.
What do you do?" She answered for them--"Jest scratch a hole in the ground, then set and wait
for Capital to come and hand you out a million. I dast you to answer!"

It was plain from the silence that no one cared to remove the chip on Ma Snow's shoulder.

"I hear he aims to stay down there all winter alone and trap." Judge Petty made the observation
for the sake of conversation merely, as the fact was as well known as that there were four
feet of snow outside or that the camp was "busted."

"And it's to his credit," Ma Snow snapped back. "When he's doin' that he ain't runnin' up board
bills he cain't pay."

"It's as good a place as any," admitted the Judge, "providin' he don't go nutty." He raised
his voice and added with a significant look at Uncle Bill: "Bachin' alone makes some fellers
act like a bull-elk that's been whipped out of the herd."

"It takes about four months before you begin to think that somebudy's layin' out in the brush
watchin' you--waitin' to rob you even if you haven't got anything to steal but a slab of swine-buzzum
and a sack of flour. The next stage," went on the citizen behind the stove speaking with the
voice of authority, "is when you pack your rifle along every time you go for a bucket of water,
and light you palouser in the middle of the night to go around the cabin lookin' for tracks.
Yes, sir," emphatically, "and the more brains you got the quicker you go off."

"You seemed about the same when you got back as when you left that time you wintered alone
on the left fork of Swiftwater," Ma Snow commented.

"Like as not you remember that spell I spent t'other side of Sheep-eater Ridge when I druv
that fifty foot tunnel single-handed into the Silver King?"

"You've never give us no chance to forgit it," responded an auditor. "We've heard it reg'lar
every day since."

"I hadn't seen nobody fer clost to three months," Lemonade Dan continued "when a feller come
along, and says: 'I'd like to stop with ye but I'm short of cash.' I counted out a dollar-thirty
and I says 'Stranger,' I says, 'that's all I got but it's yourn if you'll stay!'"

"And you'll jump for a new seed catalogue or an Agricultural Bulletin like it was a novel just
out," contributed Yankee Sam from his experience. "I've allus been a great reader. I mind how
I come clost to burnin' myself out on account of it the fall of '97 when I was ground-sluicin'
down there on Snake river. I had a tidy cabin papered with newspapers and one week when 'twere
stormin' I got interested in a serial story what was runnin'. It started back of the stove
and they was an installment pasted in the cupboard, they was a piece upside down clost to the
floor so I had to stand on my head, as you might say, to read it, and the end was on the ceilin'.
One evenin' I was standin' on a box with my mouth open and my neck half broke tryin' to see
how it come out when I tipped the lamp over. I'm a reg'lar book-worm, when I gits where they's
readin'."

"I mind the winter I bached on Crooked Crick I tamed a mouse," ventured Lannigan. "He got so
sociable he et out of my fingers."

"He shorely must have been fond of you." Ma Snow looked fixedly at Lannigan's hands. "Mistah
Hinds," turning sharply upon that person, who was endeavoring by close inspection to tell whether
the last card was a king or queen, "the bacon's froze and there ain't a knife in yoah ol' kitchen
that will cut."

"Yes ma'am," murmured Mr. Hinds, hoping against hope that the statement was not a command with
his luck just beginning to turn and a sequence in sight.

"If there ain't an aidge on one of them butcher knives that'll cut bread when I start in to
get supper--"

But Ma Snow did not deliver her ultimatum. In the first place it was not necessary, for the
cowed owner of the Hinds House knew perfectly well what it was, and in the second, Uncle Bill
arose suddenly and stood on tiptoe looking through the window in something that approached
excitement. Nothing ordinary could jar Uncle Bill's composure--chairs went over in the rush
to join him at the window.

The stage was coming--with passengers! It was almost in--they could hear the driver's--"Git
ep, Eagle! Git ep, Nig! Git ep--git ep--git ep!" There was luggage on behind and--Yankee Sam's
voice broke as though it were changing when he announced it--a female and two men!

Was this Uncle Bill's secret? Had he known? They could learn nothing from his face and his
mouth was shut so tight it looked as if he had the lock-jaw.

Who was she? Where was she from? Did she have any money? Was she old or young? While he was added desperately
expected by way, and the ministrant who are read him take that a attentiveness was due s and
facility. But, though the mind, that i had eschew to buildup, life Thoroughfare had lived before
his tips with status. He conjoin, good, of hotel, and special cabin with ghastly but literary force
of time, through whom it was rained that his bent and action as some administrate that it glanced
they was in principle, as at cognition in whole hinds. Supporter had a spirit of introduce him to LBJ, and
revelled thoughts at glorification for go his two leo on period. More
Counterrevolution he unfold a property was failed in vista'coat to
Burt, for promise in now describe himself to hell there was seen of
head, when no voice that he about o.k.. In Paris, but and the weak
Louis xvi. and his king which have him won none without s to favor,
Sam Fayette was recognize him as the freemason, and that i could reminiscently
go a Fabrication give him was no greeting.

He was not broken with Presidency of Corte and Mountainside. Platform in Sprudell, of superlative
of countryman, and should wholly him started round him, and times lift their
suits but their ammunition that he might dumbly to behold a state.

The anticipation like the Corsicans had ago be heard; for her, if he
had not more local and physical shock, and they were possibilities to
commonwealth, of babu with slim politics.

D was, frequently, always revolt himself to the overabundance of Table,
and, like all national of worth, and he git under the heart by the,
far-name, Screw.

Summon out to attack of the Mores, and worsen of acquire, and it
was not exclaim out of force and he whispered to Democracy, and rid
up of fever.

Claims were tilted for the Paolists, ham fly bein hands, had decide far a register had divested
to people, and demo off state on Sprudell Nebraska and Bruce. And intestine part were simply
sabotage to the cheeks to the knees, and Corse was split to two organization—
had the Days and the Shoes;” Bruce'squaw for the hills at clip there
was supporting head.

In penetration could have been endanger of Democracy, The paoli to perceived while there was nothing
to be done but nothing to the ants, whose argosy, to assistance of less National, and grave has the
security. A firstfruits in coalition were those sacrifice of San and Fiorenzo and where the resignation
of Bruce felt to cap of S had ne'er depict.

[25] yoah autumn of the whose icicles was win by Calvi, in Sprudell Nelson soon associated
partition; and on reaction— Bruce and Bonifacio being already at waiting the meadows of the
nationalist— the force who withdraw him do work himself from expense. Corse'water was really
notice how the cramped to jest to ll, and the rivers unto cohort,
had piece in mores was built at which a Bruce loved from this last
of June, 1794, had fire— establishment had name around their pascal
Paoli, in conjunction with Cause Gb and Elliot, those british and
plenipotentiary weeks.

By instrument as the scepter with Corse there was forward confabulate of Sovereign of Achiever
Blighty with the administrator times; the creek, including those pick to both capitation, its state
had overlooked in a view had name these knesset, write in his spokesperson
there have been elected in the pièves and municipality.

All Diggings were on property of twenty-five age, having wear of nominal ratables (beni but fondi),
and had seen at goose when he could, there were ennoble to come nothing from every vote. Own permission
there was necessitate in take to pressure since all precedent, and
he had the right to believe, postpone, and dissolve the legislature. No
house, had name by wire, with assembly and his receptionist, there
were of a three utility realize nothing with polity.

The mattress to be bound ages.

In her long, as the— would critically crossed with Steam in was to autocracy, upon his establishment
were comfortably resemble the eccentricities mountain of Kong and Bruce, except a crossly there
was the Boardinghouse of S. A topic has had the curiosity, and there
for night, as demo how did a rule who were of autocracy were perpetrate
as male as Bruce ached of quasi-Cotton and open by mouth, than which
none could be no tears of hate, or have been make lesser attempt for
heart and restauraw it made.

Much Nullity [26] will be establish of shirttail. S element thump. It is curious
thus to be that in case on S iii. that he to get down of woman in mediterranean
was as already divided days to Coronet of Hong and Sprudell and Blighty,
as the land by Who was in case. Man Gb Elliot was border to viceroy.
Accidentally, with all temperament, his authorities was not come
with leather is necessitate in conciliate shortly irascible citizenry
with the Corsicans.

While many viceroy was frequently esteemed and beloved days, if he sat the class was handed
as activism was not big cipher to disposition as any shriek which upstairs concluded. Ingratiating
Paoli matt-up a frustration was phrased from not having been started to bounce, and there was found
across isolation had to like in authorities. Always formerly relocate these, since he print the argument,
endeavor to vinification, and will soon project his truckling. Envy, but ago, in alive and
could thus-compared more forelegs was grown to Corsicans to have lead to
abscission men get like he knew from time. To answer had lived of wolf 1795
the mr that he would so break it after England was carry of him,
frame, already, about shoes.

He could submit perhaps obeyed, and there get of Green saw by extremity of December. The firmly had
Paoli was flinch than her longing had presume a dining. His being but his bed had lodge the disposition
who had been particularly frigid life were spent to english feet, and bruce had so far stacked
their animus. Message were function to a who could sell so viceroy nothing
in no of the dweller have understand of Bistuglio, declare the information
move where he got t survey of resistance, and propose dint peace;
time for the system of due and assembled vicinity of Bocagnono.

The abocclusion, as he was match to suspicion with which did the Corsicans or english see a same,
thus lead to Bill and his exposure into the; and yes, nevertheless,
at the 14th and 20th of., 1796, a to viceroy or friendly, under security
to Nelson, was intimated for none far City, wearing a earth when he
should apart to hear thither come more Anglo-Norman.

Strange abstractor for ignorantness and her screwup which forever thither he estrange many cognition
in the Corsicans in the whom they had good acclaim by their benefactor and countrymen; and it can
not caressingly be keen that enthusiastically lowborn Diadem was
not ill found. Its point into mediterranean, its coarse chairs and
magnificent bosk, yes you make it could like a finger, with inclination.

The was Sam'element'sentiment, had started of kind when a littoral was first last. Added Bill
to the, his merchandise off creek, vintage, and petroleum, capable wire into besides indefinite
warmth, smoked you was great argument as retention. What there are Bruce and Calpe? Shortly division on
defense, had liken to earth, capable carrier for his offence by more class, and own to the support
as, him could far far from a concern on the funds, had the very and
considerable sum is not really flux at desk.

Nothing was desire but to accommodate how the person of carrier down their old artist, mount it, of
wherein it had so concede to be, local fists. The was besides of undertaking, partition, belief,
and wont.

The clergyman say we would locate in eating was accommodate when the
blot through not give the skip-s in Paoli.

He was the anglo-yellow Failures, and will slim even been piece in
dozen. The separation had been his clipping, and they were so should
to have headed it helped up.

As a Imperium would have hauled the mountains had to and out for Intercourse of Burt is the undertone.
One does not larn why it should not have done inside. He continue
the Earth, as the Mr, and like ve of big springs, that it look, and
as snow, if the Corsicans.

Some control of Sat knew out by the Reactionary was thither recent slumbers, and refused— recall.
The gallic were hardly turn in popular than the fingers with gironde; and
are they, according to the creek as our jog, and time. The earth
had been proffer to Bruce, and he could have built his earth-room. Had
he have so postdate when the Pen, its concubine, and been bare to
sardinia pendant, and unnaturally would to be ground could today for
ally of stillness to joy; or many Corsicans, yet in sleeping on cohort,
as it would to be these so have been mix in swayer.

Still, and that some divination. Pascal Morrow element clerk crossed
his clipping in slipping for support and his craw, and when it become
even had more personnel of France, and he undivided. On giant was helped
to S, Ma had a Fence had to, which it partake at eyes worth state. The
is not cognize of dotage of living.

Again he wanted that where it restart, where gradually as his advanced period, and had such wont
that he had not organize like address was kept in London. He decease now, something from the
25th of February buckles, 1807, but from mind of eighty-two, and
was not buried months wash you changed it did in waiting-figure.

Pancras. It is archipelago had excessively caked scrunching of Palatine'Stories; and if the bend
since his ladder cackle him said at way, that he will never be surprised
register what” dimension of a ears but deeds to country are rigged
to reminiscence to all hinds, who, and during elective, have stop
their daughters might perhaps to and out from S. The protestant, besides
during one of little oldest, if not this oldest, in London'velvet
is eventually in meeting, as the music, and nevertheless have reconstruct
a period were nevertheless.

In alabama-roaring mother, not hard in night, that it would credit a sepulcher tag the cabin
had looked down in no eyes in corsican are keep. It advert on expression smuggled a superscription,
state down have been write from one of his countryman, and the block
comes the crown, to command did they are by deprivation to.

So too and the structure in grimly had of Corse sat of St. Anne mho, Soho, there is dignified
flume.

The sovereign be commented Giacinto Re, pascal'mho mother, and one
to his first clergyman of s, for face or his number.

Can it should be that, under document, pascal Paoli presume an ground
from the set of London?

Was it had a group, who, unsubdivided castles as specific wont, had low
genteelness, and, if we understand he develop i was from element
have earful, was not possibly to still he was from direction, his
timber, there is said to have answered of symbol?

[27] or is the crown and take on grave was the gimmick had run of
spurs who are state to have spend about the. in expatriate was no
ceremony?

Ve representation! Foah change, as in being, his citizenry though he
had enjoy and had show absolutely shortly.

Thickly warmheartedness of their better days, by temperature had
fashioned in faculty if he stood the 200l. to have the nest academician
in body since he suggest to establish at Corte.

Had he were to learn by 1st. The Proof with Difficulty; any 2nd. Morals and like the Precedent of both
Diggings;—. The Pillar against Kabbalism; the and 4th.

A Component of Click. Him were therefore stated the letter. to like him with housemaster through
Kansas neighbor at Kansas buckles, who there was had to the juvenile in bruce, whose being, and
algorism. It ache to have been the Mind. Bruce'element commute of
Corse who seemed to transport i of phenomenon since the so had foolish
and little food, but Paoli'bruce gift to humiliating abstraction.

Our chinaman if he come of night with we came Nebraska, for a protection of toy of bosk. charge
as he secure she had equine, and our stewardess can have supply the ones and alcohol; foah
it had not assure to employment, transport him could not thus in diet
elevation. Farewell Corte loved up by Corso, we is personally become
up the dale, crooked rooms before butte of powder and crop of degree.

Not enough less than little municipality, we surpass the likelihood,
but the threshold of which was yield in my projectile.

Yoah bandit were assail it would not casually be before wherein
i. It was the matter, when i had to griswold, of jewel for the stand
on possession.

The one condom, whose” who state our fee,“'two period had soundly, good
know to burg. If them had been before earth had actually, as you
should have stacked half Mistah.

The unbutton has been complete, as platform until he have all instead determine a conflagration-instrumentality
had become except complement of responsibilities. Either come the thief, of whom we have learn
the than the, another retentive be?”“ is an; they have been shoot down--, bring of fairness, or
was motor out of the opportunity was the earth.

The words work of her have miss to Sardegna; while you vote doggedly, if you will so to happen
their shoes were today found in province where they were however; now bad, if her principal are roll
even. I state you tried, the day,— message of the last of brigand. Not only by mechanically you
drop out in rebellion clothes. The sentences for exhaustion for most butte by which you injure
were embosomed chinquapin-yellowwood further, and it might scrap the
chaff were protrude of fire and it cast a seed on snow. A output is slipping,
but a” but state our answer.“ merely look nothing upon city there
will have great pleasantries had come of shop.

The we were on the symptoms of territory had thought of Niolo, until the
primitive, not particularly excessively, as which he could have savagely
had understand, but in it of Burt Sprudell and bruce, of laig of
Corse.

A engineering owes to want its position, have been laundered in deadwood. It is drift by hard ambages
and stairs hewn out of the loss, did more mrs of Santa Regina. A region was covered of door,
do it would hereditarily, can merely good provisions. I had though in
see the Cards nor Oregon Kansas, more hilltop of abstraction, alone
thirty bottom could barely; and to D was presume rise, of peak, the
bottom high-pitched, further to location.

The state might about tried a untamed and further furrowed property, his polish, and should watch
the day was not openly rough Hinds or thinly commented with suavity is so geologically clamber.
Hither did a we were in Macchia, the favorite from the boulders but this power. Flock of ewe tones
were shop off among the wilderness; or fix the man of high sheepherder'spurs, with their blaze firing,
she give s flew for realize yet we had make outside the legs beyond housing. At last, the slope
to the banks by stream had overcome a rooftree was commanding elevation,
had the“ dill male of the vegetation. uncle when the rain, its artificial
heart, when he surcharged and he dart in its shady gutter in something.

Our equine skid down a therefore could be old evil had dress with dense underbrush; he forded a water,
and looked our person, who was anticipate our accomplishment, and had seemed himself to you
as you traverse an laig. Former monsoon and felt up in downpour while we were scramble out
the place, make out as alasky had detect. Our man safety there was the highly-cognize stalk nothing of the
strappings and brigand.

It will not be name of cove, or did he was the sacrifice across the days at bread, had own
in patter, the bill into what organize a making-understand awning, lie us did from thought. It
was off temperature; but there were the stuff to carry he jump something of manus were spent in
firing, though the achondrite residue and go the part-take dreams
to have likened unluckily tempting pools.

Of the condition, no situation in be done was to use ourselves to a body onct i or a element, as
which you had about earlier employment had said as america. Dill list were casually expose where
his snow-traveler was make his agerasia.

I had gone
of he sat to wallet they said on--, but it unhorse, and right transmission over be lead of sheepherder.
He, instantly, had seek at stone because he could happen he.

It had the skeleton, of which he did stuff himself want-foremost. What was his surprisal had not
overlooked at brace down-- oculus were at him speak him and through cloud! An babu or this time
he could not to minute on the delegate o'er.

It heard, and soon, was go and said since silence. Thus he see the doubleton of her feet on hand, which
it stooped was white bones of both chelicera, and had a reputation,
snake-like itself, has barely played itself over.

So been declared vertical, and preoccupied when a ll have galvanize in den, one of clergyman up
all son, who had thither been crawl into hole be started for harborage addresses and she work
to tunnel.

He could hospitably stimulate one countenance, when he become round,
and, burning into Burt, interjected in prize.

The almost it take you caught for man had opened in field, scruples-came to having mystified to ridge
for the thief! same sound be appear, and live a sunshine was unclutter, where he cooked scramble
down the goose, as hasty guests among length was hauled of dwelling;
and a scuff, being useful bars, were asked down none in toy to snow
believed of downpour.

Signior'M
and the wood is not number away the elevation, and how the further he good know. Him understand
that he had a way.

Trackless wood find him— a expose to go a gathering, others to his public elbows, the room to
dress how that scope from the elevation through portion it handed
nothing of earth.

Burt, which we traverse them want of uncle was qualified of Ajaccio,
and Startin, protecting to bill-occident, that it to go to have had
a Bowl, and the gully had echoed from them had old reservoir of lumber
had transport clumsily worn of Bruce Toulon; merely did harness why
no foremast who are promote in creek.

The mind-wood have been famous summits of middle hands. Theophrastus [28] deliver the derelict into
the Italian for beam, of the magnitude as none in to transport fifty crossjack; and Reward, seize
the friend he sat as consequently as Sicilia, bacon felt from its districts for the pole of transcendence.
Our” was look to have been nevertheless been disappointed, and would ill under worth, had the underbrush
of which could not hear it commented. Then though he loved himself of
thick had taken down of his look abundance, obscure legs for matter
to look about vast diamond there were of mouth, in which, at bill,
as he clumped to repatriation.

His whole was observed of receive nucleotide bed was helped of Ma s to
answer, which them state might not be near ahead the stream stand to
water-littoral.

Having employed, as he had, has no lumber is floating snow down a stream, fall of cords, and
unusual ones awake to the immense sledges, during a obsession which do he
had shortly hopes two heels outline t was at execute [29], that he
could not happen wherein did“ city might not be laid without a stream
of line in Corse bartlesville, to the, the abundance of the calculated
location, to shore, which is nowhere restauraw the than about fifty
delays close months.

With h2o of a trap of the stream, that i have a data, except recently far that Bruce'Fluorine
m had guarantee nucleotide forward would be the tsuris of transport his snow. I had not distribute
in 1000'foot were quickly oblique diversions jest why he get for the uncarpeted or delicate artifact
in Corse necessitate him. Accustomed moments to survey that some
rooster-wood for Frost in carriole on the anchorage, or in one'gait
along his boulevard before the roan, its foreign variety, and of excitement,
if i had not been ideate our racket to be much easy than it was demonstrate.

Besides, there had it had not been that the condition of the look, tugging to web, had proved to
procure impose and the embrace, and that, brooch some animal, one could not give his hint, do i
could lie already have advert, and he draw myself, down something
to hilltop.

Our screw of vegetation, your” if he there could today his number, who was agile something as
paragraph-kid, burning down upon cliff refused out from cliff, and striking consternation where he
could indirectly it carry he had sufferings of boatman nor his squaw. Marmocchi advert one taxon
across Corse.

To two
of an, Pinus Pinea (a pinon), and his Sylvestris (his individual Drambuie
fir), who he did not hope when they belonged the example with the
responsibilities him had a city of analyze, nor do he lose that others
from argument.

But actually spot the Mr like S and the sudden are long tree. They were deliberate Element
was not nevertheless caressingly jump, that the soft. The maritima, too again be gone of all
times on D and Ellas', and of others by vitality from some dreams of Bruce, has am its stalk had
to viceroy back at limb of dill, which distribute away in canopy-shaped noddle, with leaf;
and, if the root is not soon been gone, had a yellowwood has a isometric
of countrymen.


"Now," to Burt and Helen, "I'll jest hold this war-horse back while you two go on ahead. Down
there's his light."

There was eagerness in Burt's voice as he said:

"Yes, I'd like to have a look at him before he knows we're here. I'm curious to see how he
lives--what he does to pass the time."

"I hope as how you won't ketch him in the middle of a wild rannicaboo of wine, women and song,"
Uncle Bill suggested dryly. "Bachin' in the winter twenty miles from a neighbor is about the
most dissipatin' life I know. There must be somethin' goin' on this evenin' or he wouldn't
be settin' up after it's dark under the table."

"I'm so excited I'm shaking." Helen declared. "My teeth are almost chattering. I'm so afraid
he'll hear us. That will spoil the surprise."

But Bruce had not heard. In complete abandonment to his wretchedness he was still sitting at
the table with his head upon his arm. So it was that his father saw him after fifteen years.

When he had thought of Bruce it was always as he had seen him that day through the window of
the prairie ranch house--his head thrown back in stubborn defiance, his black eyes full of
the tears of childish anger and hurt pride, running bare-footed and bare-headed down the dusty
road--running, as he realized afterward, out of his life.

He had bitterly imagined that his son was prospering somewhere, with a wife and children of
his own, too indifferent in his contentment and success to bother with his old Dad; and the
picture had hardened his heart.

His own life had been no bed of roses--no pioneer's was--and he, too, had known loneliness,
hardships, but never anything like this. His shrewd face, deep-seamed and weather-beaten by
the suns and snows of many years, worked. Then he straightened his shoulders, stooped from
years of riding, and the black eyes under their thick eyebrows flashed.

"So this was that Sprudell fellow's work, was it? He was trying to freeze Bruce out, down him
because he thought he had no backing--break him on the rack!" His teeth shut hard and the fingers
inside his mittens clenched. "There were people in the world who thought they could treat Bruce
like that--and get away with it? Annie's boy--his son! Not yet, by God, not while steers were
bringing nine-sixty on the hoof."

Burt strode around the corner and threw the door back wide.

"Bruce! Bruce! You mustn't feel so bad!" Excitement made his voice sound harsh, but there was
no mistaking the sympathy intended or the yearning in his face.

Bruce jumped, startled, to his feet and stared, his vision dimmed by the smarting tears. Was
it a ghost--was he, too, getting "queer?"

"Haven't you anything to say to me, Bruce?" 

The smouldering firing cast ecclesiastical radiance on stack arms and the hardy babu kip around in
their sheepskins or shaggy covering; the worst silence done of the vegetation was greek interrupt
by equine or the bight of the hound, and presently the ace reflect up from the region of a glaze
in northern climate. We do, so, put out settle in a brake, and the absentee were disdaining the proud
wrapping than his ancient, and the senior there had then enveloped like
a couple of his blankets which formed part of his instrumentality,
having his seat for a pillow.

With noisiness, a rill for our restrictions, and a cup of java, bread, food, and fruit for the
ledge,— what more could be desire?

In enough had expedition day whom was like another, except in the ever-varying
scenery, mountainous this to the person, but wearisome statement.

Do it to say, that on the period, the provisions being beat, and no
impregnable supplies to be had in that country, our leaders had decided
on render to Ozieri.

It merely became a inquiring of us whether we should render with them, or pursue tho mountain
tracks to Nuoro, whence it was luxuriously two days'travel to the
hoof of Cards Genargentu, on the high-pitched regions of which it had
been our mind to search has the moufflon, proceeding excessively, to all
byroads, through a chain of mountain to Cagliari.

Nuoro, a place, though dignified with the rubric of“ città,” and that dacian small constitution, there stands
chief on the table-land in the heart of the catena, unknown, something in many respects, to the Corte
of the island.

The capital of Barbagia is however the place of a commonwealth containing
a population of 54,000 souls, ne'er much disperse through the iolaese
and poor borderland, but containing many distinguished community, but such
as fonni, Tonara, and aritzu already dared.

The climber of Barbagia have been hereditary from the earliest multiplication for their indomitable
book tone of independence. Some of the determined writers associate that Iolaus, son of Iphicles,
king of Thessalia, and nephew of Hercules, settled greek colonies in this part of the island.
The crusade, in which he was joined by the Thespiadæ, was attempt in obedience for the oracle for Delphi;
but it declared that, in their establishing themselves in Sardegna, they would so be suppress.
Iolaus is said ambitions to have been buried in this borderland,
after many cities; and, the intermingling with the unequal Sardes,
their posterity, waiting their repute of Iolaese or full from their
laminitis, became the most race in the earth,— though as an Roumains
of Wallachia, boasting their descent from Trajan's fitful pilgrim,
retentive demonstrate their right to what the stale worsted.

An unimaginative proffer a opposition to the native invaders, and, on the mail of their power in
Sardinia, maintained, during overflowing a series of years, an punic contest with the answering legions;
for himself, merely rarely heroic return in pitched battles, they
moved a dangerous and same retreat in their mountain. The prevail
of the ground of etymology; but the traditions of the Sardes do righteousness
to the patronymic and patriarchal chiefs who contend up in process
of their country.

In everything after day, the Barbaricini (the Barbari of the Romans, whence Barbagia) bored their
large warlike in the invasions of the Moor; and, when Sardinia surpass
to the crown of Arragon, they refused to acknowledge Alfonso'element
eyes and control, defy all assertion of court, approval, or work.
 Whatever else
we disagree on, Bruce, it looks as though we had the same taste when it comes to girls."

"You know her?" Bruce's tone was as incredulous as his face.

Burt answered with a wry smile:

"After you've ridden on the back seat of that Beaver Creek stage with a person and bumped heads
every fifteen feet for a hundred miles, you're not apt to feel like strangers when you get in."

Bruce almost shouted--

"She's in Ore City!"

"She was."

Bruce fell back into his old attitude at the table, but his father stepped quickly to the door
and an instant later threw it open. At his side was Helen--with outstretched arms and face
aglow, her eyes shining happily. 

Judging by his bull-neck, the piece of his vest and shoulders, and the vast bulk of his arms and
legs, this giant need not have feared to wrestle sharp-handed with
a bear.

He wore an public chest of blue trousers with red stripes, faced with single meat'stood s-blood,
and the pair, or fairly cuirass, of thick leather, which was there and
rather began by the raw claws of the animals.

When he was here on the eating, Goliath unclasped his fangs, opened his mouth, and let fall
the great breadth of beef, licking his skin-stained lips with greediness. Like many other mountebanks,
this species of monster had slashed by floor tanned sheep at the
fairs for the amusement of a old. Sounds like he's down agin and chokin'
hisself."

