Instead of putting into his friend, the Anglo-Germanist Williams Taylor's mouth, the opinion
"that as we are aware that others frequently misinterpret us, we are equally liable to fall
into the same error with respect to them," he alters it to the very different one, "That there
is always some eye upon us; and that it is impossible to keep anything we do from the world,
as it will assuredly be divulged by somebody as soon as it is his interest to do so."

In the twenty-fourth chapter Borrow makes Thurtell, the friend of bruisers, hint, with unconscious
tragic irony, at his famous end--by dying upon the gallows for the murder of Mr. William Weare.
He tells the magistrate whom he has asked to lend him a piece of land for a prize-fight that
his own name is no matter.

"However," he continues, "a time may come--we are not yet buried--whensoever my hour arrives,
I hope I shall prove myself equal to my destiny, however high--

   "Like bird that's bred amongst the Helicons."

In the original Thurtell's quotation was:

   "No poor unminded outlaw sneaking home."

This chapter now ends with the magistrate's question to young Borrow about this man: "What
is his name?"  In the manuscript Borrow answered, "John Thurtell."  The proof had, "John .
. ." Borrow hesitated, and in the margin, having crossed out "John," he put the initial "J"
as a substitute, but finally crossed that out also.  He was afraid of names which other people
might know and regard in a different way.  Thus in the same proof he altered "the philologist
Scaliger" to "a certain philologist": thus, too, he would not write down the name of Dereham,
but kept on calling it "pretty D---"; and when he had to refer to Cowper as buried in Dereham
Church he spoke of the poet, not by name, but as "England's sweetest and most pious bard."

{picture: Page 1 of "Lavengro," showing Borrow's corrections. (Photographed from the Author's
proof copy, by kind permission of Mr. Kyllmann and Mr. Thos. Seccombe.)  Photo: W. J. Roberts:
page27.jpg}

CHAPTER IV--WHAT IS TRUTH?

These changes in the proof of what was afterwards called "Lavengro" were, it need hardly be
said, made in order to bring the words nearer to a representation of the idea in Borrow's brain,
and nearer to a perfect harmony with one another.  Take the case of Jasper Petulengro's arm.
Possibly he had a short arm like his father, but in reading the proof it must somehow have
seemed to Borrow that his Jasper Petulengro--founded on Ambrose Smith and at many points resembling
him--ought to have a long arm.  The short arm was true to "the facts"; the long arm was more
impressive and was truer to the created character, which was more important.

It was hardly these little things that kept Borrow working at "Lavengro" for nearly half of
his fourth decade and a full half of his fifth.  But these little things were part of the great
difficulty of making an harmonious whole by changing, cutting out and inserting.  When Ford
and John Murray's reader asked him for his life they probably meant a plain statement of a
few "important facts," such facts as there could hardly be two opinions about, such facts as
fill the ordinary biography or "Who's Who."  Borrow knew well enough that these facts either
produce no effect in the reader's mind or they produce one effect here and a different one
there, since the dullest mind cannot blankly receive a dead statement without some effort to
give it life.  Borrow was not going to commit himself to incontrovertible statements such as
are or might be made to a Life Insurance Company.  He had no command of a tombstone style and
would not have himself circumscribed with full Christian name, date of birth, etc., as a sexton
or parish clerk might have done for him.  Twenty years later indeed--in 1862--he did write
such an account of himself to be printed as part of an appendix to a history of his old school
at Norwich. It is full of dates, but they are often inaccurate, and the years 1825 to 1833
he fills with "a life of roving adventures."  He cannot refrain from calling himself a great
rider, walker and swimmer, or from telling the story of how he walked from Norwich to London--he
calls it London to Norwich--in twenty-seven hours.  But in 1862 he could rely on "Lavengro"
and "The Romany Rye"; he was an author at the end of his career, and he had written himself
down to the best of his genius.  The case was different in 1842.

He saw himself as a man variously and mysteriously alive, very different from every other man
and especially from certain kinds of man.  When you look at a larch wood with a floor of fern
in October at the end of twilight, you are not content to have that wood described as so many
hundred poles growing on three acres of land, the property of a manufacturer of gin.  Still
less was Borrow content to sit down at Oulton, while the blast howled amid the pines which
nearly surround his lonely dwelling, and answer the genial Ford's questions one by one: "What
countries have you been in?  What languages do you understand?" and so on.  Ford probably divined
a book as substantial and well-furnished with milestones as "The Bible in Spain," and he cheerfully
told Borrow to make the broth "thick and slab."

Ford, in fact, doubled the difficulty.  Not only did Borrow feel that his book must create
a living soul, but the soul must be heroic to meet the expectations of Ford and the public.
The equestrian group had been easy enough--himself mounted on Sidi Habismilk, with the swift
Jew and the Gypsy at his side--but the life of a man was a different matter.  Nor was the task
eased by his exceptional memory.  He claimed, as has been seen, to remember the look of the
viper seen in his third year.  Later, in "Lavengro," he meets a tinker and buys his stock-in-trade
to set himself up with.  The tinker tries to put him off by tales of the Blazing Tinman who
has driven him from his beat.  At last the tinker consents to sell his pony and things on one
condition.  "Tell me what's my name," he says; "if you can't, may I--." Borrow answers: "Don't
swear, it's a bad habit, neither pleasant nor profitable.  Your name is Slingsby--Jack Slingsby.
There, don't stare, there's nothing in my telling you your name: I've been in these parts before,
at least not very far from here.  Ten years ago, when I was little more than a child, I was
about twenty miles from here in a post chaise, at the door of an inn, and as I looked from
the window of the chaise, I saw you standing by a gutter, with a big tin ladle in your hand,
and somebody called you Jack Slingsby.  I never forget anything I hear or see; I can't, I wish
I could.  So there's nothing strange in my knowing your name; indeed there's nothing strange
in anything, provided you examine it to the bottom.  Now what am I to give you for the things?"

(I once heard a Gypsy give a similar and equal display of memory.)  Dr. Knapp has corroborated
several details of "Lavengro" which confirm Borrow's opinion of his memory.  Hearing the author
whom he met on his walk beyond Salisbury, speak of the "wine of 1811, the comet year," Borrow
said that he remembered being in the market-place of Dereham, looking at that comet. {30} 
Dr Knapp first makes sure exactly when Borrow was at Dereham in 1811 and then that there was
a comet visible during that time.  He proves also from newspapers of 1820 that the fight, in
the twenty sixth chapter of "Lavengro," ended in a thunderstorm like that described by Borrow
and used by Petulengro to forecast the violent end of Thurtell.

Now a brute memory like that, which cannot be gainsaid, is not an entirely good servant to
a man who will not put down everything he can, like a boy at an examination.  The ordinary
man probably recalls all that is of importance in his past life, though he may not like to
think so, but a man with a memory like Borrow's or with a supply of diaries like Sir Mountstuart
Grant Duff's may well ask, "What is truth?" as Borrow often did.  The facts may convey a false
impression which an omission or a positive "lie" may correct.

{picture: A page from the author's proof copy of "Lavengro," showing Borrow's significant corrections.
"Capital subject," he repeated.  That was when he saw himself as an adventurer and Europe craning
its neck to keep him in sight.  But he knew well, and after the first flush he remembered,
that he was not merely a robust walker, rider and philologist.  When he was only eighteen he
was continually asking himself "What is truth?"  "I had," he says, "involved myself imperceptibly
in a dreary labyrinth of doubt, and, whichever way I turned, no reasonable prospect of extricating
myself appeared.  The means by which I had brought myself into this situation may be very briefly
told; I had inquired into many matters, in order that I might become wise, and I had read and
pondered over the words of the wise, so called, till I had made myself master of the sum of
human wisdom; namely, that everything is enigmatical and that man is an enigma to himself;
thence the cry of 'What is truth?'  I had ceased to believe in the truth of that in which I
had hitherto trusted, and yet could find nothing in which I could put any fixed or deliberate
belief.  I was, indeed, in a labyrinth!  In what did I not doubt?  With respect to crime and
virtue I was in doubt; I doubted that the one was blameable and the other praiseworthy.  Are
not all things subjected to the law of necessity?  Assuredly; time and chance govern all things:
yet how can this be? alas!

"Then there was myself; for what was I born?  Are not all things born to be forgotten?  That's
incomprehensible: yet is it not so?  Those butterflies fall and are forgotten.  In what is
man better than a butterfly?  All then is born to be forgotten.  Ah! that was a pang indeed;
'tis at such a moment that a man wishes to die.  The wise king of Jerusalem, who sat in his
shady arbours beside his sunny fishpools, saying so many fine things, wished to die, when he
saw that not only all was vanity, but that he himself was vanity.  Will a time come when all
will be forgotten that now is beneath the sun?  If so, of what profit is life? . . .

"'Would I had never been born!'  I said to myself; and a thought would occasionally intrude.
But was I ever born?  Is not all that I see a lie--a deceitful phantom?  Is there a world,
and earth, and sky? . . ."

If he no longer articulated these doubts he was still not as sure of himself as Ford imagined.
He was, by the way, seldom sure of his own age, and Dr. Knapp {31} gives four instances of
his underestimating it by two and even five years.  Whatever may be the explanation of this,
after three years' work at "Lavengro" he "will not be hurried for anyone."  He was probably
finding that, with no notebooks or letters to help, the work was very different from the writing
of "The Bible in Spain," which was pieced together out of long letters to the Bible Society,
and, moreover, was written within a few years of the events described.  The events of his childhood
and youth had retired into a perspective that was beyond his control: he would often be tempted
to change their perspective, to bring forward some things, to set back others.  In any case
these things were no longer mere solid material facts.  They were living a silent life of spirits
within his brain.  He took to calling the book his "life" or "autobiography," not "Life: a
Drama."  It was advertised as such; but he would not have it.  At the last moment he refused
to label it an autobiography, because he knew that it was inadequate, and that in any case
other men would not understand or would misunderstand it.  He must have felt certain that the
fair figure of "Don Jorge," created in "The Bible of Spain," had been poisoned for most readers
by many a passage in "Lavengro," like that where he doubted the existence of self and sky and
stars, or where he told of the breakdown in his health when he was sixteen and of the gloom
that followed:

"But how much more quickly does strength desert the human frame than return to it!  I had become
convalescent, it is true, but my state of feebleness was truly pitiable.  I believe it is in
that state that the most remarkable feature of human physiology frequently exhibits itself.
Oh, how dare I mention the dark feeling of mysterious dread which comes over the mind, and
which the lamp of reason, though burning bright the while, is unable to dispel!  Art thou,
as leeches say, the concomitant of disease--the result of shattered nerves?  Nay, rather the
principle of woe itself, the fountain head of all sorrow co-existent with man, whose influence
he feels when yet unborn, and whose workings he testifies with his earliest cries, when, 'drowned
in tears,' he first beholds the light; for, as the sparks fly upward, so is man born to trouble,
and woe doth he bring with him into the world, even thyself, dark one, terrible one, causeless,
unbegotten, without a father.  Oh, how frequently dost thou break down the barriers which divide
thee from the poor soul of man, and overcast its sunshine with thy gloomy shadow.  In the brightest
days of prosperity--in the midst of health and wealth--how sentient is the poor human creature
of thy neighbourhood! how instinctively aware that the floodgates of horror may be cast open,
and the dark stream engulf him for ever and ever!  Then is it not lawful for man to exclaim,
'Better that I had never been born!'  Fool, for thyself thou wast not born, but to fulfil the
inscrutable decrees of thy Creator; and how dost thou know that this dark principle is not,
after all, thy best friend; that it is not that which tempers the whole mass of thy corruption?
It may be, for what thou knowest, the mother of wisdom, and of the great works: it is the dread
of the horror of the night that makes the pilgrim hasten on his way.  When thou feelest it
nigh, let thy safety word be 'Onward'; if thou tarry, thou art overwhelmed.  Courage! build
great works--'tis urging thee--it is ever nearest the favourites of God--the fool knows little
of it.  Thou wouldst be joyous, wouldst thou? then be a fool.  What great work was ever the
result of joy, the puny one?  Who have been the wise ones, the mighty ones, the conquering
ones of this earth? the joyous?  I believe not.  The fool is happy, or comparatively so--certainly
the least sorrowful, but he is still a fool; and whose notes are sweetest, those of the nightingale,
or of the silly lark?

* * * * *

"'What ails you, my child?' said a mother to her son, as he lay on a couch under the influence
of the dreadful one; 'what ails you? you seem afraid!'

"Boy.--'And so I am; a dreadful fear is upon me.'

"Mother.--'But of what? there is no one can harm you; of what are you apprehensive?'

"Boy.--'Of nothing that I can express; I know not what I am afraid of, but afraid I am.'

"Mother.--'Perhaps you see sights and visions; I knew a lady once who was continually thinking
that she saw an armed man threaten her, but it was only an imagination, a phantom of the brain.'

"Boy.--'No armed man threatens me; and 'tis not a thing that would cause me any fear.  Did
an armed man threaten me, I would get up and fight him; weak as I am, I would wish for nothing
better, for then, perhaps, I should lose this fear; mine is a dread of I know not what, and
there the horror lies.'

"Mother.--'Your forehead is cool, and your speech collected.  Do you know where you are?'

"Boy.--'I know where I am, and I see things just as they are; you are beside me, and upon the
table there is a book which was written by a Florentine; all this I see, and that there is
no ground for being afraid. I am, moreover, quite cool, and feel no pain--but, but--'

"And then there was a burst of 'gemiti, sospiri ed alti guai.'  Alas, alas, poor child of clay!
as the sparks fly upward, so wast thou born to sorrow--Onward!"

And if men passed over this as a youthful distemper, rather often recurring, what would they
make of his saying that "Fame after death is better than the top of fashion in life"?

He did not simplify the matter by his preface.  There he announced that the book was "a dream."
He had, he said, endeavoured to describe a dream, partly of adventure, in which will be found
copious notices of books and many descriptions of life and manners, some in a very unusual
form.  A dream containing "copious notices of books"!  A dream in three volumes and over a
thousand pages!  A dream which he had "endeavoured to describe"!  From these three words it
was necessary to suppose that it was a real dream, not a narrative introduced by the machinery
of a dream, like "Pilgrim's Progress," and "The Dream of Fair Women."  And so it was. The book
was not an autobiography but a representation of a man's life in the backward dream of memory.
He had refused to drag the events of his life out of the spirit land, to turn them into a narrative
on the same plane as a newspaper, leaving readers to convert them back again into reality or
not, according to their choice or ability.  His life seemed to him a dream, not a newspaper
obituary, not an equestrian statue on a pedestal in Albemarle Street opposite John Murray's office.

The result was that "the long-talked-of autobiography" disappointed those who expected more
than a collection of bold picaresque sketches.  "It is not," complained the "Athenaeum," "an
autobiography, even with the licence of fiction;" "the interest of autobiography is lost,"
and as a work of fiction it is a failure.  "Fraser's Magazine" said that it was "for ever hovering
between Romance and Reality, and the whole tone of the narrative inspires profound distrust.
Nay, more, it will make us disbelieve the tales in 'The Zincali' and 'The Bible in Spain.'"
Another critic found "a false dream in the place of reality, a shadowy nothing in the place
of that something all who had read 'The Bible in Spain' craved and hoped for from his pen."
His friend, William Bodham Donne, in "Tait's Edinburgh Magazine," explained how "Lavengro"
was "not exactly what the public had been expecting."  Another friend, Whitwell Elwin, in the
"Quarterly Review," reviewing "Lavengro" and its continuation, "The Romany Rye," not only praised
the truth and vividness of the descriptions, but said that "various portions of the history
are known to be a faithful narrative of Mr. Borrow's career, while we ourselves can testify,
as to many other parts of his volumes, that nothing can excel the fidelity with which he has
described both men and things," and "why under these circumstances he should envelop the question
in mystery is more than we can divine.  I have suggested that there were good reasons for not
calling the work an autobiography.  Dr. Knapp has shown in his fortieth chapter that the narrative
was interrupted to admit lengthy references to much later events for purposes of "occult vengeance";
and that these interruptions helped to cause the delay and to change the title there can be
little doubt.

Borrow was angry at the failure of "Lavengro," and in the appendix to "The Romany Rye" he actually
said that he had never called "Lavengro" an autobiography and never authorised anyone to call
it such.  This was not a lie but a somewhat frantic assertion that his critics were mistaken
about his "dream."  In later years he quietly admitted that "Lavengro" gave an account of his
early life.

Yet Dr. Knapp was not strictly and completely accurate in saying that the first volume of "Lavengro"
is "strictly autobiographical and authentic as the whole was at first intended to be."  He
could give no proof that Borrow's memory went back to his third year or that he first handled
a viper at that time.  He could only show that Borrow's accounts do not conflict with other
accounts of the same matters.  When they did conflict, Dr. Knapp was unduly elated by the discovery.

But Dr. Knapp informs us that the well-known trotting stallion, Marshland Shales, was not offered
for sale by auction until 1827, when he was twenty-five years old, and ten years after the
date implied in "Lavengro."  And what is more, Dr. Knapp concludes that Borrow must have been
in Norwich in 1827, on the fair day, April 12.

CHAPTER V--HIS PREDECESSORS

I do not wish to make Borrow out a suffering innocent in the hands of that learned heavy-weight
and wag, Dr. Knapp.  Borrow was a writing man; he was sometimes a friend of jockeys, of Gypsies
and of pugilists, but he was always a writing man; and the writer who is delighted to have
his travels in Spain compared with the rogue romance, "Gil Blas," is no innocent.  Photography,
it must be remembered, was not invented.  It was not in those days thought possible to get
life on to the paper by copying it with ink.  Words could not be the equivalents of acts. 
Life itself is fleeting, but words remain and are put to our account.  Every action, it is
true, is as old as man and never perishes without an heir.  But so are words as old as man,
and they are conservative and stern in their treatment of transitory life.  Every action seems
new and unique to the doer, but how rarely does it seem so when it is recorded in words, how
rarely perhaps it is possible for it to seem so.  A new form of literature cannot be invented
to match the most grand or most lovely life.  And fortunately; for if it could, one more proof
of the ancient lineage of our life would have been lost.  Borrow did not sacrifice the proof.
He had read many books in many languages, and he had a strong taste.  He liked "Gil Blas,"
which is a simple chain of various and surprising adventures.  He liked the lives of criminals
in the "Newgate Lives and Trials" (or rather "Celebrated Trials," 1825), which he compiled
for a publisher in his youth.

"What struck me most," he said, "with respect to these lives was the art which the writers,
whoever they were, possessed of telling a plain story. It is no easy thing to tell a story
plainly and distinctly by mouth; but to tell one on paper is difficult indeed, so many snares
lie in the way. People are afraid to put down what is common on paper, they seek to embellish
their narrative, as they think, by philosophic speculations and reflections; they are anxious
to shine, and people who are anxious to shine, can never tell a plain story.  'So I went with
them to a music booth, where they made me almost drunk with gin, and began to talk their flash
language, which I did not understand,' says, or is made to say, Henry Simms, executed at Tyburn
some seventy years before the time of which I am speaking.  I have always looked upon this
sentence as a masterpiece of the narrative style, it is so concise and yet so very clear."

Borrow read Bunyan, Sterne and Smollett: he liked Byron's "Childe Harold" and his "Ode to Napoleon
Bonaparte";--he liked that portrait with all Europe and all history for a background.

It was in this manner, he declares, that he "first took to the paths of knowledge," and when
he began his own "autobiography" he must have well remembered the opening of "Robinson Crusoe":--"I
was born in the year 1632, in the City of York, of a good family, though not of that country,
my father being a foreigner of Bremen, named Kreutznaer, who first settled at Hull," though
Borrow himself would have written it: "I was born in the year 16---, in the City of Y---, of
a good family, though not of that country, my father being a foreigner of Bremen, named Kruschen,
who first settled at H---."  Probably he remembered also that other fictitious autobiography
of Defoe's, "The Adventures of Captain Singleton," of the child who was stolen and disposed
of to a Gypsy and lived with his good Gypsy mother until she happened to be hanged, a little
too soon for him to be "perfected in the strolling trade."  Defoe had told him long before
Richard Ford that he need not be afraid of being low.  He could always give the same excuse
as Defoe in "Moll Flanders"--"as the best use is to be made even of the worst story, the moral,
'tis hoped, will keep the reader serious, even where the story might incline him to be otherwise."
In fact, Borrow did afterwards claim that his book set forth in as striking a way as any "the
kindness and providence of God."  Even so, De Quincey suggested as an excuse in his "Confessions"
the service possibly to be rendered to other opium-eaters. Borrow tells us in the twenty-second
chapter of "Lavengro" how he sought for other books of adventure like "Robinson Crusoe"--which
he will not mention by name!--and how he read many "books of singular power, but of coarse
and prurient imagination."  One of these, "The English Rogue," he describes as a book "written
by a remarkable genius."  He might have remembered in its preface the author lamenting that,
though it was meant for the life of a "witty extravagant," readers would regard it as the author's
own life, "and notwithstanding all that hath been said to the contrary many still continue
in this belief."  He might also have remembered that the apology for portraying so much vice
was that the ugliness of it--"her vizard-mask being remov'd"--"cannot but cause in her (quondam)
adorers, a loathing instead of loving."  The dirty hero runs away as a boy and on the very
first day tires of nuts and blackberries and longs "to taste of the fleshpots again."  He sleeps
in a barn until he is waked, pursued and caught by Gypsies.  He agrees to stay with them, and
they have a debauch of eating, drinking and fornication, which makes him well content to join
the "Ragged Regiment." They colour his face with walnut juice so that he looks a "true son
of an Egyptian."  Hundreds of pages are filled thereafter by tediously dragging in, mostly
from other books, joyless and leering adventures of low dishonesty and low lust.  Another book
of the kind which Borrow knew was the life of Bamfylde Moore-Carew, born in 1693 at a Devonshire
rectory. He hunted the deer with some of his schoolfellows from Tiverton and they played truant
for fear of punishment.  They fell in with some Gypsies feasting and carousing and asked to
be allowed to "enlist into their company."  The Gypsies admitted them after the "requisite
ceremonies" and "proper oaths."  The philosophy of Carew or his historian is worth noticing.
He says of the Gypsies:

"There are perhaps no people so completely happy as they are, or enjoy so great a share of
liberty.  The king is elective by the whole people, but none are allowed to stand as candidates
for that honour but such as have been long in their society, and perfectly studied the nature
and institution of it; they must likewise have given repeated proofs of their personal wisdom,
courage and capacity; this is better known as they always keep a public record or register
of all remarkable (either good or bad) actions performed by any of their society, and they
can have no temptation to make choice of any but the most worthy, as their king has no titles
or legislative employments to bestow, which might influence or corrupt their judgments.

"The laws of these people are few and simple, but most exactly and punctually observed; the
fundamental of which is that strong love and mutual regard for each member in particular and
for the whole community in general, which is inculcated into them from the earliest infancy.
. . . Experience has shown them that, by keeping up their nice sense of honour and shame, they
are always enabled to keep their community in better order than the most severe corporal punishments
have been able to effect in other governments.

"But what has still more tended to preserve their happiness is that they know no other use
of riches than the enjoyment of them.  They know no other use of it than that of promoting
mirth and good humour; for which end they generously bring their gains into a common stock,
whereby they whose gains are small have an equal enjoyment with those whose profits are larger,
excepting only that a mark or ignominy is affixed on those who do not contribute to the common
stock proportionately to their abilities and the opportunities they have of gain, and this
is the source of their uninterrupted happiness; fully this means they have no griping usurer
to grind them, no lordly possessor to trample on them, nor any envyings to torment them; they
have no settled habitations, but, like the Scythian of old, remove from place to place, as
often as their convenience or pleasure requires it, which render their life a perpetual source
of the greatest variety.

"By what we have said above, and much more that we could add of the happiness of these people
and of their peculiar attachment to each other, we may account for what has been matter of
much surprise to the friends of our hero, viz., his strong attachment, for the space of about
forty years, to this community, and his refusing the large offers that have been made to quit
their society."

Carew himself met with nothing but success in his various impersonations of Tom o' Bedlam,
a rat-catcher, a non-juring clergyman, a shipwrecked Quaker, and an aged woman with three orphan
grandchildren.  He was elected King of the Beggars, and lost the dignity only by deliberate
abdication.  "The restraints of a town not suiting him after the free rambling life he had
led, he took a house in the country, and having acquired some property on the decease of a
relation, he was in a position to purchase a residence more suited to his taste, and lived
for some years a quiet life 'respected best by those who knew him best.'"

A very different literary hero of Borrow's was William Cobbett, in spite of his radical opinions.
Cobbett was a man who wrote, as it were, with his fist, not the tips of his fingers.  When
I begin to read him I think at once of a small country town where men talk loudly to one another
at a distance or as they walk along in opposite directions, and the voices ring as their heels
do on the cobbles.  He is not a man of arguments, but of convictions.  He is so full of convictions
that, though not an indolent man, he has no time for arguments.  "On this stiff ground," he
says in North Wiltshire, "they grow a good many beans and give them to the pigs with whey;
which makes excellent pork for the Londoners; but which must meet with a pretty hungry stomach
to swallow it in Hampshire." When he was being shouted down at Lewes in 1822, and someone moved
that he should be put out of the room, he says: "I rose that they might see the man that they
had to put out."  The hand that holds the bridle holds the pen.  The night after he has been
hare-hunting--Friday, November the sixteenth, 1821, at Old Hall, in Herefordshire--he writes
down this note of it:

"A whole day most delightfully passed a hare-hunting, with a pretty pack of hounds kept here
by Messrs. Palmer.  They put me upon a horse that seemed to have been made on purpose for me,
strong, tall, gentle and bold; and that carried me either over or through every thing.  I,
who am just the weight of a four-bushel sack of good wheat, actually sat on her back from daylight
in the morning to dusk (about nine hours) without once setting my foot on the ground.  Our
ground was at Orcop, a place about four miles distance from this place.  We found a hare in
a few minutes after throwing off; and, in the course of the day, we had to find four, and were
never more than ten minutes in finding.  A steep and naked ridge, lying between two flat valleys,
having a mixture of pretty large fields and small woods, formed our ground.  The hares crossed
the ridge forward and backward, and gave us numerous views and very fine sport.  I never rode
on such steep ground before; and, really, in going up and down some of the craggy places, where
the rain had washed the earth from the rocks, I did think, once or twice of my neck, and how
Sidmouth would like to see me.  As to the cruelty, as some pretend, of this sport, that point
I have, I think, settled, in one of the chapters of my 'Year's Residence in America.'  As to
the expense, a pack, even a full pack of harriers, like this, costs less than two bottles of
wine a day with their inseparable concomitants.  And as to the time spent, hunting is inseparable
from early rising; and, with habits of early rising, who ever wanted time for any business?"

Borrow could not resist this man's plain living and plain thinking, or his sentences that are
like acts--like blows or strides.  And if he had needed any encouragement in the expression
of prejudices, Cobbett offered it.  The following, from "Cottage Economy," will serve as an
example.  It is from a chapter on "Brewing":--

"The practice of tea drinking must render the frame feeble and unfit to encounter hard labour
or severe weather, while, as I have shown, it deducts from the means of replenishing the belly
and covering the back. Hence succeeds a softness, an effeminacy, a seeking for the fireside,
a lurking in the bed, and, in short, all the characteristics of idleness for which, in his
case, real want of strength furnishes an apology.  The tea drinking fills the public-house,
makes the frequenting of it habitual, corrupts boys as soon as they are able to move from home,
and does little less for the girls, to whom the gossip of the teatable is no bad preparatory
school for the brothel.  At the very least, it teaches them idleness.  The everlasting dawdling
about with the slops of the tea- tackle gives them a relish for nothing that requires strength
and activity.  When they go from home, they know how to do nothing that is useful, to brew,
to bake, to make butter, to milk, to rear poultry; to do any earthly thing of use they are
wholly unqualified.  To shut poor young creatures up in manufactories is bad enough; but there
at any rate they do something that is useful; whereas the girl that has been brought up merely
to boil the teakettle, and to assist in the gossip inseparable from the practice, is a mere
consumer of food, a pest to her employer, and a curse to her husband, if any man be so unfortunate
as to fix his affections upon her.

"But is it in the power of any man, any good labourer who has attained the age of fifty, to
look back upon the last thirty years of his life, without cursing the day in which tea was
introduced into England?  Where is there such a man who cannot trace to this cause a very considerable
part of all the mortifications and sufferings of his life?  When was he ever too late at his
labour; when did he ever meet with a frown, with a turning off and with pauperism on that account,
without being able to trace it to the teakettle?  When reproached with lagging in the morning,
the poor wretch tells you that he will make up for it by working during his breakfast time!
I have heard this a hundred and a hundred times over.  He was up time enough; but the teakettle
kept him lolling and lounging at home; and now instead of sitting down to a breakfast upon
bread, bacon and beer, which is to carry him on to the hour of dinner, he has to force his
limbs along under the sweat of feebleness, and at dinner- time to swallow his dry bread, or
slake his half-feverish thirst at the pump or the brook.  To the wretched teakettle he has
to return at night with legs hardly sufficient to maintain him; and then he makes his miserable
progress towards that death which he finds ten or fifteen years sooner than he would have found
it had he made his wife brew beer instead of making tea.  If he now and then gladdens his heart
with the drugs of the public-house, some quarrel, some accident, some illness is the probable
consequence; to the affray abroad succeeds an affray at home; the mischievous example reaches
the children, cramps them or scatters them, and misery for life is the consequence."  As Cobbett
wrote against tea so was Borrow to write against the Pope.

Being a reading and a writing man who had set down all his most substantial adventures in earlier
books, Borrow, says Mr. Thomas Seccombe, had no choice but "to interpret autobiography as 'autobiographiction.'"
{50}  Parts of the autobiography, he says, are "as accurate and veracious as John Wesley's
'Journal,' but the way in which the dingle ingredients" [in the stories of Isopel Berners,
the postillion, and the Man in Black] "are mingled, and the extent to which lies--damned lies--or
facts predominate, will always be a fascinating topic for literary conjecture."  It must not
be forgotten, however, that Borrow never called the published book his autobiography.  He did
something like what I believe young writers often do; he described events in his own life with
modifications for the purpose of concealment in some cases and of embellishment in others.
If he had never labelled it an autobiography there would have been no mystery, and the conclusion
of readers would be that most of it could not have been invented, but that the postillion's
story, for example, is a short story written to embody some facts and some opinions, without
any appearance of being the whole truth and nothing but the truth.  If Borrow made a set of
letters to the Bible Society into a book like "Gil Blas," he could hardly do less--especially
when he had been reminded of the fact--with his remoter adventures; and having taken out dates
and names of persons and places he felt free.  He produced his view of himself, as De Quincey
did in his "Confessions of an English Opium Eater."  This view was modified by his public reputation,
by his too potent memory and the need for selection, by his artistic sense, and by his literary
training.  So far from suffering by the two elements, if they are to be separated, of fiction
and autobiography, "Lavengro" and "The Romany Rye" gain immensely.  The autobiographical form--the
use of the first person singular--is no mere device to attract an interest and belief as in
"Captain Singleton" and a thousand novels.  Again and again we are made perfectly certain that
the man could not have written otherwise.  He is sounding his own depths, and out of mere shyness,
at times, uses the transparent amateur trick of pretending that he was writing of someone else.
Years afterwards, when Mr. Watts-Dunton asked him, "What is the real nature of autobiography?"
he answered in questions: "Is it a mere record of the incidents of a man's life? or is it a
picture of the man himself--his character, his soul?"

CHAPTER VI--THE BIOGRAPHER'S MATERIAL

