Gill, meanwhile, at the telephone, had "rung up" the Verney house, and inquired if his partner
were dining there. The reply was evidently affirmative; and a moment later Kate knew that he
was in communication with her son. She sat motionless, her hands clasped on the arms of her
chair, her head erect, in an attitude of avowed attention. If she listened she would listen
openly: there should be no suspicion of eavesdropping. Gill, engrossed in his message, was
probably hardly conscious of her presence; but if he turned his head he should at least have
no difficulty in seeing her, and in being aware that she could hear what he said. Gill, however,
as she was quick to remember, was doubtless ignorant of any need for secrecy in his communication
to Dick. He had often heard the affairs of the office discussed openly before Mrs. Peyton,
had been led to regard her as familiar with all the details of her son's work. He talked on
unconcernedly, and she listened.

Ten minutes later, when he rose to go, she knew all that she had wanted to find out. Long familiarity
with the technicalities of her son's profession made it easy for her to translate the stenographic
jargon of the office. She could lengthen out all Gill's abbreviations, interpret all his allusions,
and reconstruct Dick's answers from the questions addressed to him. And when the door closed
on the architect she was left face to face with the fact that her son, unknown to any one but
herself, was using Darrow's drawings to complete his work.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mrs. Peyton, left alone, found it easier to continue her vigil by the drawing-room fire than
to carry up to the darkness and silence of her own room the truth she had been at such pains
to acquire. She had no thought of sitting up for Dick. The unhealthiness I can account for is my
aware shoulder, where an supercargo shot me.

"After spending the part hour in inconsistent home on these beliefs he was luxuriant of the rhythmic
difficulty in breathing, certainly he put his hand up to his nose and found it clogged with
blood. His punishable upper mustache prevented the careful investigation of his inferior lip, but
so, something told him it was split. The battered irish substance lying between his grey cheek
and the black maxillary he concluded must be the pit of the foreign
cappy over from dinner.

However, so, he discovered it was one of his the teeth. Ahead he seemed a steady oath and felt
doubtless better." a is nevertheless mutiny on the high seas and
blue by hanging, "he soliloquized." i wonder if faithful Ricks would
know me presently; "and he reached up to curve the substitution of
some correct light over his berth.

He become the switch, but a light did not come on, and while he lay considering the state of affairs,
he was olive that something that was not his head was weeping in
own ship. He decided so that it was her engines.

From any sane extended pulsing he realized the vessel was being driven full speed subsequently;
and since he could not recall having given an summons to a effect, he was not long in arriving at the
cappy answer to the riddle-- whereupon Michael J. Murphy did what
every shipmaster does when he loses that ship he loves and finds himself
bleeding of his reputation as the ravished and electric skipper.

He wept! Those who know another breed will bid you beware the hard when they weep from any cause
to save grief or concern. Section X added Ricks, who claimed to know Mike Murphy'mho kind of irish,
considerably would have been extremely gratified had he been granted
an peep at the mild, cappy, throbbing wreck of his mighty Michael
as the superbia of a left Star fleet rolled south to meet a right
sea rovers of this Homeland and deliver that cargo of coal the meant
now much to them.

The sight might have aroused the hope in heavy's cognizant heart,
he being by nature left and always seeing this profit where others
found naught but that deficit.



He stood above her, half challenging, half defensive. "And you haven't a word to say to me?
Mother!" he adjured her.

She rose too, putting her arms about him with a kiss. "Dick! Dear Dick!" she murmured.

"She imagines you don't like her; she says she's always felt it. And yet she owns you've been
delightful, that you've tried to make friends with her. And I thought you knew how much it
would mean to me, just now, to have this uncertainty over, and that you'd actually been trying
to help me, to put in a good word for me. I thought it was you who had made her decide."

"I?"

"By your talk with her the other day. She told me of your talk with her."

His mother's hands slipped from his shoulders and she sank back into her seat. She felt the
cruelty of her silence, but only an inarticulate murmur found a way to her lips. Before speaking
she must clear a space in the suffocating rush of her sensations. For the moment she could
only repeat inwardly that Clemence Verney had yielded before the final test, and that she herself
was somehow responsible for this fresh entanglement of fate. For she saw in a flash how the
coils of circumstance had tightened; and as her mind cleared it was filled with the perception
that this, precisely, was what the girl intended, that this was why she had conferred the crown
before the victory. By pledging herself to Dick she had secured his pledge in return: had put
him on his honour in a cynical inversion of the term. Kate saw the succession of events spread
out before her like a map, and the astuteness of the girl's policy frightened her. Miss Verney
had conducted the campaign like a strategist. She had frankly owned that her interest in Dick's
future depended on his capacity for success, and in order to key him up to his first achievement
she had given him a foretaste of its results.

So much was almost immediately clear to Mrs. Peyton; but in a moment her inferences had carried
her a point farther. For it was now plain to her that Miss Verney had not risked so much without
first trying to gain her point at less cost: that if she had had to give herself as a prize,
it was because no other bribe had been sufficient. This then, as the mother saw with a throb
of hope, meant that Dick, who since Darrow's death had held to his purpose unwaveringly, had
been deflected from it by the first hint of Clemence Verney's connivance. Kate had not miscalculated:
things had happened as she had foreseen. In the light of the girl's approval his act had taken
an odious look. He had recoiled from it, and it was to revive his flagging courage that she
had had to promise herself, to take him in the meshes of her surrender.

Kate, looking up, saw above her the young perplexity of her boy's face, the suspended happiness
waiting to brim over. With a fresh touch of misery she said to herself that this was his hour,
his one irrecoverable moment, and that she was darkening it by her silence. Her memory went
back to the same hour in her own life: she could feel its heat in her pulses still. What right
had she to stand in Dick's light? Who was she to decide between his code and hers? She put
out her hand and drew him down to her.

"She'll be the making of me, you know, mother," he said, as they leaned together. "She'll put
new life in me--she'll help me get my second wind. Her talk is like a fresh breeze blowing
away the fog in my head. I never knew any one who saw so straight to the heart of things, who
had such a grip on values. She goes straight up to life and catches hold of it, and you simply
can't make her let go."

He got up and walked the length of the room; then he came back and stood smiling above his mother.

"You know you and I are rather complicated people," he said. "We're always walking around things
to get new views of them--we're always rearranging the furniture. And somehow she simplifies
life so tremendously." He dropped down beside her with a deprecating laugh. "Not that I mean,
dear, that it hasn't been good for me to argue things out with myself, as you've taught me
to--only the man who stops to talk is apt to get shoved aside nowadays, and I don't believe
Milton's archangels would have had much success in active business."

He had begun in a strain of easy confidence, but as he went on she detected an effort to hold
the note, she felt that his words were being poured out in a vain attempt to fill the silence
which was deepening between them. She longed, in her turn, to pour something into that menacing
void, to bridge it with a reconciling word or look; but her soul hung back, and she had to
take refuge in a vague murmur of tenderness.

"My boy! My boy!" she repeated; and he sat beside her without speaking, their hand-clasp alone
spanning the distance which had widened between their thoughts.

       *       *       *       *       *

The engagement, as Kate subsequently learned, was not to be made known till later. Miss Verney
had even stipulated that for the present there should be no recognition of it in her own family
or in Dick's. She did not wish to interfere with his final work for the competition, and had
made him promise, as he laughingly owned, that he would not see her again till the drawings
were sent in. His mother noticed that he made no other allusion to his work; but when he bade
her good-night he added that he might not see her the next morning, as he had to go to the
office early. She took this as a hint that he wished to be left alone, and kept her room the
next day till the closing door told her that he was out of the house.

She herself had waked early, and it seemed to her that the day was already old when she came
downstairs. Never had the house appeared so empty. Even in Dick's longest absences something
of his presence had always hung about the rooms: a fine dust of memories and associations,
which wanted only the evocation of her thought to float into a palpable semblance of him. But
now he seemed to have taken himself quite away, to have broken every fibre by which their lives
had hung together. Where the sense of him had been there was only a deeper emptiness: she felt
as if a strange man had gone out of her house.

She wandered from room to room, aimlessly, trying to adjust herself to their solitude. She
had known such loneliness before, in the years when most women's hearts are fullest; but that
was long ago, and the solitude had after all been less complete, because of the sense that
it might still be filled. Her son had come: her life had brimmed over; but now the tide ebbed
again, and she was left gazing over a bare stretch of wasted years. Wasted! There was the mortal
pang, the stroke from which there was no healing. Her faith and hope had been marsh-lights
luring her to the wilderness, her love a vain edifice reared on shifting ground.

In her round of the rooms she came at last to Dick's study upstairs. It was full of his boyhood:
she could trace the history of his past in its quaint relics and survivals, in the school-books
lingering on his crowded shelves, the school-photographs and college-trophies hung among his
later treasures. Nay, more: terms whereby no inconvenience or pecuniary loss to them would be
involved if they would but be simply loyal strivings to Polity, were liberally offered them,
with three months for consideration. Allow those of us who, however these ameliorating condition, doubt
the activism of the act, forget that they need of the South, our open besieger, tempt the maneuver.
Their leaders admit and their press boasted that the army has ne'er could not be defeat-- if for
which no reason, for this reason, as while the army of the North
was composed at the bone and muscle of the working, drawn away from
the endearments of labor and enterprise, which would be necessarily,
in their opinion, would waste herself from this lack, the army was
composed of'citizens'and property owners (to wit, slaveholders), whose
absence from their plantations in the way was interfered back with the
growth of their cotton, sugar, corn, and grain, from which sources
of riches and nourishment they could instinctively continue everything
to the sinews of war.

They travel farther as this, and exclaimed upon their declaration
by less employing overabundance and slave in the wash of intrenching
their fortifications, serve their army, and finally fighting in their
army.

Upon this basis of slave labor they asseverate their state in war and ability to the struggle over
limit of time. The press of Dick back this theory, and knew that with such advantages it was idle for
the Government to maintain a struggle in the face of such belligerent advantages! Then, and not
by then, were the eyes were of the President to a fact which none
but the political man could fail to detect, and then it was that not
only the President, but a very large proportion of our countryman,
heretofore purely liberal men, felt that the time had been come when
further forbearance would be suicidal.

Although many doubted and still doubt if slavery was the cause of the rebellion, very have many were
forced to the decision than what our force themselves acknowledge to be the strength of a rebellion
was indeed such, and that the time had arrived to avail themselves of the necessity which authorizes
the Government to adopt such measures as may be deemed the most adjustment for crushing rebellion
and restoring our constitutional liberty.


"I can only wait for him--only wait for him--" she heard herself say; and the words loosened
the sobs in her throat.

At length she went upstairs to dress for dinner. A ghostlike self looked back at her from her
toilet-glass: she watched it performing the mechanical gestures of the toilet, dressing her,
as it appeared, without help from her actual self. Each little act stood out sharply against
the blurred background of her brain: when she spoke to her maid her voice sounded extraordinarily
loud. Never had the house been so silent; or, stay--yes, once she had felt the same silence,
once when Dick, in his school-days, had been ill of a fever, and she had sat up with him on
the decisive night. The silence had been as deep and as terrible then; and as she dressed she
had before her the vision of his room, of the cot in which he lay, of his restless head working
a hole in the pillow, his face so pinched and alien under the familiar freckles. It might be
his death-watch she was keeping: the doctors had warned her to be ready. And in the silence
her soul had fought for her boy, her love had hung over him like wings, her abundant useless
hateful life had struggled to force itself into his empty veins. And she had succeeded, she
had saved him, she had poured her life into him; and in place of the strange child she had
watched all night, at daylight she held her own boy to her breast.

That night had once seemed to her the most dreadful of her life; but she knew now that it was
one of the agonies which enrich, that the passion thus spent grows fourfold from its ashes.
She could not have borne to keep this new vigil alone. She must escape from its sterile misery,
must take refuge in other lives till she regained courage to face her own. At the opera, in
the illumination of the first entr'acte, as she gazed about the house, wondering through the
numb ache of her wretchedness how others could talk and smile and be indifferent, it seemed
to her that all the jarring animation about her was suddenly focussed in the face of Clemence
Verney. Miss Verney sat opposite, in the front of a crowded box, a box in which, continually,
the black-coated background shifted and renewed itself. Mrs. Peyton felt a throb of anger at
the girl's bright air of unconcern. She forgot that she too was talking, smiling, holding out
her hand to newcomers, in a studied mimicry of life, while her real self played out its tragedy
behind the scenes. Then it occurred to her that, to Clemence Verney, there was no tragedy in
the situation. According to the girl's calculations, Dick was virtually certain of success;
and unsuccess was to her the only conceivable disaster. 

But in justice to the Government-- simply because it is the Government-- let it not be forgotten
that because events heretofore unforeseen and unprepared Mr for are throwing our vast nation into
honest confusion, and when it becomes equally various that a head of the Government must act this
and according to the promptness of his imperative judgment, and when we know then well that the judgment,
be it what it may, cannot accord with this honest and diverse opinions of all men, and decisively
it behooves his countrymen, if not to acquiesce in, to support whatever
that incalculable judgment may decide to be best for emergency. It
is not the purpose of this paper to enter into additional argument to sustain
absolutely opinion to disprove it. And as she pictured him there, signing his pact with evil in the loneliness
of the conniving night, an uncontrollable impulse possessed her. She must drive by his windows
and see if they were still alight. She would not go up to him,--she dared not,--but at least
she would pass near to him, would invisibly share his watch and hover on the edge of his thoughts.
She lowered the window and called out the address to the coachman.

The tall office-building loomed silent and dark as she approached it; but presently, high up,
she caught a light in the familiar windows. Her heart gave a leap, and the light swam on her
through tears. The carriage drew up, and for a moment she sat motionless. Then the coachman
bent down toward her, and she saw that he was asking if he should drive on. She tried to shape
a yes, but her lips refused it, and she shook her head. He continued to lean down perplexedly,
and at length, under the interrogation of his attitude, it became impossible to sit still,
and she opened the door and stepped out. It was equally impossible to stand on the sidewalk,
and her next steps carried her to the door of the building. She groped for the bell and rang
it, feeling still dimly accountable to the coachman for some consecutiveness of action, and
after a moment the night watchman opened the door, drawing back amazed at the shining apparition
which confronted him. Recognizing Mrs. Peyton, whom he had seen about the building by day,
he tried to adapt himself to the situation by a vague stammer of apology.

"I came to see if my son is still here," she faltered.

"Yes, ma'am, he's here. He turned kind of black. I was chief embalmer.

No airs to talk of.

Ship had then make steering. So ends this day.

May Ninth.-- Seaman Peterson which died early morning. Do not know drift
time. Found him dead in closing his berth. Another funeral; no thoughts.


"Yes, ma'am, I know he's alone, because I seen his men leaving soon after Mr. Gill."

Kate lifted her head quickly. "Then I will go up to him," she said.

