LE MORTE D'ARTHUR

By Sir Thomas Malory

King Arthur and of his Noble Knights of the Round Table

IN TWO VOLS.--VOL. I

BIBLIOGRAPHICAL NOTE

PREFACE OF WILLIAM CAXTON

CONTENTS:

CHAPTER I. How Uther Pendragon sent for the duke of Cornwall and Igraine his wife, and of their
departing suddenly again.

CHAPTER II. How Uther Pendragon made war on the duke of Cornwall, and how by the mean of Merlin
he lay by the duchess and gat Arthur.

CHAPTER III. Of the birth of King Arthur and of his nurture.

CHAPTER IV. Of the death of King Uther Pendragon.

CHAPTER V. How Arthur was chosen king, and of wonders and marvels of a sword taken out of a
stone by the said Arthur.

CHAPTER VI. How King Arthur pulled out the sword divers times.

CHAPTER VII. How King Arthur was crowned, and how he made officers.

CHAPTER VIII. How King Arthur held in Wales, at a Pentecost, a great feast, and what kings
and lords came to his feast.

CHAPTER IX. Of the first war that King Arthur had, and how he won the field.

CHAPTER X. How Merlin counselled King Arthur to send for King Ban and King Bors, and of their
counsel taken for the war.

CHAPTER XI. Of a great tourney made by King Arthur and the two kings Ban and Bors, and how
they went over the sea.

CHAPTER XII. How eleven kings gathered a great host against King Arthur.

CHAPTER XIII. Of a dream of the King with the Hundred Knights.

CHAPTER XIV. How the eleven kings with their host fought against Arthur and his host, and many
great feats of the war.

CHAPTER XV. Yet of the same battle.

CHAPTER XVI. Yet more of the same battle.

CHAPTER XVII. Yet more of the same battle, and how it was ended by Merlin.

CHAPTER XVIII. How King Arthur, King Ban, and King Bors rescued King Leodegrance, and other
incidents.

CHAPTER XIX. How King Arthur rode to Carlion, and of his dream, and how he saw the questing beast.

CHAPTER XX. How King Pellinore took Arthur's horse and followed the Questing Beast, and how
Merlin met with Arthur.

CHAPTER XXI. How Ulfius impeached Queen Igraine, Arthur's mother, of treason; and how a knight
came and desired to have the death of his master

CHAPTER XXII. How Griflet was made knight, and jousted with a knight

CHAPTER XXIII. How twelve knights came from Rome and asked truage for this land of Arthur,
and how Arthur fought with a knight.

CHAPTER XXIV. How Merlin saved Arthur's life, and threw an enchantment on King Pellinore and
made him to sleep.

CHAPTER XXV. How Arthur by the mean of Merlin gat Excalibur his sword of the Lady of the Lake.

CHAPTER XXVI. How tidings came to Arthur that King Rience had overcome eleven kings, and how
he desired Arthur's beard to trim his mantle.

CHAPTER XXVII. How all the children were sent for that were born on May- day, and how Mordred
was saved.

BOOK II.

CHAPTER I. Of a damosel which came girt with a sword for to find a man of such virtue to draw
it out of the scabbard.

CHAPTER II. How Balin, arrayed like a poor knight, pulled out the sword, which afterward was
the cause of his death.

CHAPTER III. How the Lady of the Lake demanded the knight's head that had won the sword, or
the maiden's head.

CHAPTER IV. How Merlin told the adventure of this damosel.

CHAPTER V. How Balin was pursued by Sir Lanceor, knight of Ireland, and how he jousted and
slew him.

CHAPTER VI. How a damosel, which was love to Lanceor, slew herself for love, and how Balin
met with his brother Balan.

CHAPTER VII. How a dwarf reproved Balin for the death of Lanceor, and how King Mark of Cornwall
found them, and made a tomb over them.

CHAPTER VIII. How Merlin prophesied that two the best knights of the world should fight there,
which were Sir Lancelot and Sir Tristram.

CHAPTER IX. How Balin and his brother, by the counsel of Merlin, took King Rience and brought
him to King Arthur.

CHAPTER X. How King Arthur had a battle against Nero and King Lot of Orkney, and how King Lot
was deceived by Merlin, and how twelve kings were slain.

CHAPTER XI. Of the interment of twelve kings, and of the prophecy of Merlin, and how Balin
should give the dolorous stroke.

CHAPTER XII. How a sorrowful knight came before Arthur, and how Balin fetched him, and how
that knight was slain by a knight invisible.

CHAPTER XIII. How Balin and the damosel met with a knight which was in likewise slain, and
how the damosel bled for the custom of a castle.

CHAPTER XIV. How Balin met with that knight named Garlon at a feast, and there he slew him,
to have his blood to heal therewith the son of his host.

CHAPTER XV. How Balin fought with King Pellam, and how his sword brake, and how he gat a spear
wherewith he smote the dolorous stroke.

CHAPTER XVI. How Balin was delivered by Merlin, and saved a knight that would have slain himself
for love.

CHAPTER XVII. How that knight slew his love and a knight lying by her, and after, how he slew
himself with his own sword, and how Balin rode toward a

CHAPTER XVIII. How Balin met with his brother Balan, and how each of them slew other unknown,
till they were wounded to death.

CHAPTER XIX. How Merlin buried them both in one tomb, and of Balin's sword.

BOOK III.

CHAPTER I. How King Arthur took a wife, and wedded Guenever, daughter to Leodegrance, King
of the Land of Cameliard, with whom he had the Round Table.

CHAPTER II. How the Knights of the Round Table were ordained and their sieges blessed by the
Bishop of Canterbury.

CHAPTER III. How a poor man riding upon a lean mare desired King Arthur to make his son knight.

CHAPTER IV. How Sir Tor was known for son of King Pellinore, and how Gawaine was made knight.

CHAPTER V. How at feast of the wedding of King Arthur to Guenever, a white hart came into the
hall, and thirty couple hounds, and how a brachet

CHAPTER VI. How Sir Gawaine rode for to fetch again the hart, and how two brethren fought each
against other for the hart.

CHAPTER VII How the hart was chased into a castle and there slain, and how Sir Gawaine slew a lady.

CHAPTER VIII. How four knights fought against Gawaine and Gaheris, and how they were overcome,
and their lives saved at request of four ladies.

CHAPTER IX. How Sir Tor rode after the knight with the brachet, and of his adventure by the way.

CHAPTER X. How Sir Tor found the brachet with a lady, and how a knight assailed him for the
said brachet.

CHAPTER XI. How Sir Tor overcame the knight, and how he lost his head at the request of a lady.

CHAPTER XII. How King Pellinore rode after the lady and the knight that led her away, and how
a lady desired help of him, and how he fought with two

CHAPTER XIII. How King Pellinore gat the lady and brought her to Camelot to the court of King
Arthur.

CHAPTER XIV. How on the way he heard two knights, as he lay by night in a valley, and of their
adventures.

CHAPTER XV. How when he was come to Camelot he was sworn upon a book to tell the truth of his
quest.

BOOK IV.

CHAPTER I. How Merlin was assotted and doted on one of the ladies of the lake, and how he was
shut in a rock under a stone and there died.

CHAPTER II. How five kings came into this land to war against King Arthur, and what counsel
Arthur had against them.

CHAPTER III. How King Arthur had ado with them and overthrew them, and slew the five kings
and made the remnant to flee.

CHAPTER IV. How the battle was finished or he came, and how King Arthur founded an abbey where
the battle was.

CHAPTER V. How Sir Tor was made knight of the Round Table, and how Bagdemagus was displeased.

CHAPTER VI. How King Arthur, King Uriens, and Sir Accolon of Gaul, chased an hart, and of their
marvellous adventures.

CHAPTER VII. How Arthur took upon him to fight to be delivered out of prison, and also for
to deliver twenty knights that were in prison.

CHAPTER VIII. How Accolon found himself by a well, and he took upon him to do battle against
Arthur.

CHAPTER IX. Of the battle between King Arthur and Accolon.

CHAPTER X. How King Arthur's sword that he fought with brake, and how he recovered of Accolon
his own sword Excalibur, and overcame his enemy.

CHAPTER XI. How Accolon confessed the treason of Morgan le Fay, King Arthur's sister, and how
she would have done slay him.

CHAPTER XII. How Arthur accorded the two brethren, and delivered the twenty knights, and how
Sir Accolon died.

CHAPTER XIII. How Morgan would have slain Sir Uriens her husband, and how Sir Uwaine her son
saved him.

CHAPTER XIV. How Queen Morgan le Fay made great sorrow for the death of Accolon, and how she
stole away the scabbard from Arthur.

CHAPTER XV. How Morgan le Fay saved a knight that should have been drowned, and how King Arthur
returned home again.

CHAPTER XVI. How the Damosel of the Lake saved King Arthur from mantle that should have burnt him.

CHAPTER XVII. How Sir Gawaine and Sir Uwaine met with twelve fair damosels, and how they complained
on Sir Marhaus.

CHAPTER XVIII. How Sir Marhaus jousted with Sir Gawaine and Sir Uwaine, and overthrew them both.

CHAPTER XIX. How Sir Marhaus, Sir Gawaine, and Sir Uwaine met three damosels, and each of them
took one.[*1]

CHAPTER XX. How a knight and a dwarf strove for a lady.

CHAPTER XXI. How King Pelleas suffered himself to be taken prisoner because he would have a
sight of his lady, and how Sir Gawaine promised him to get

CHAPTER XXII. How Sir Gawaine came to the Lady Ettard, and how Sir Pelleas found them sleeping.

CHAPTER XXIII. How Sir Pelleas loved no more Ettard by means of the Damosel of the Lake, whom
he loved ever after.

CHAPTER XXIV. How Sir Marhaus rode with the damosel, and how he came to the Duke of the South
Marches.

CHAPTER XXV. How Sir Marhaus fought with the duke and his four sons and made them to yield them.

CHAPTER XXVI. How Sir Uwaine rode with the damosel of sixty year of age, and how he gat the
prize at tourneying.

CHAPTER XXVII. How Sir Uwaine fought with two knights and overcame them.

CHAPTER XXVIII. How at the year's end all three knights with their three damosels met at the
fountain.

BOOK V.

CHAPTER I. How twelve aged ambassadors of Rome came to King Arthur to demand truage for Britain.

CHAPTER II. How the kings and lords promised to King Arthur aid and help against the Romans.

CHAPTER III. How King Arthur held a parliament at York, and how he ordained the realm should
be governed in his absence.

CHAPTER IV. How King Arthur being shipped and lying in his cabin had a marvellous dream and
of the exposition thereof.

CHAPTER V. How a man of the country told to him of a marvellous giant, and how he fought and
conquered him.

CHAPTER VI. How King Arthur sent Sir Gawaine and other to Lucius, and how they were assailed
and escaped with worship.

CHAPTER VII. How Lucius sent certain spies in a bushment for to have taken his knights being
prisoners, and how they were letted.

CHAPTER VIII. How a senator told to Lucius of their discomfiture, and also of the great battle
between Arthur and Lucius.

CHAPTER IX How Arthur, after he had achieved the battle against the Romans, entered into Almaine,
and so into Italy.

CHAPTER X. Of a battle done by Sir Gawaine against a Saracen, which after was yielden and became
Christian.

CHAPTER XI. How the Saracens came out of a wood for to rescue their beasts, and of a great battle.

CHAPTER XII. How Sir Gawaine returned to King Arthur with his prisoners, and how the King won
a city, and how he was crowned Emperor.

BOOK VI.

CHAPTER I. How Sir Launcelot and Sir Lionel departed from the court, and how Sir Lionel left
him sleeping and was taken.

CHAPTER II. How Sir Ector followed for to seek Sir Launcelot, and how he was taken by Sir Turquine.

CHAPTER III How four queens found Launcelot sleeping, and how by enchantment he was taken and
led into a castle.

CHAPTER IV. How Sir Launcelot was delivered by the mean of a damosel.

CHAPTER V. How a knight found Sir Launcelot lying in his leman's bed, and how Sir Launcelot
fought with the knight.

CHAPTER VI. How Sir Launcelot was received of King Bagdemagus' daughter, and how he made his
complaint to her father.

CHAPTER VII. How Sir Launcelot behaved him in a tournament, and how he met with Sir Turquine
leading Sir Gaheris.

CHAPTER VIII. How Sir Launcelot and Sir Turquine fought together.

CHAPTER IX. How Sir Turquine was slain, and how Sir Launcelot bade Sir Gaheris deliver all
the prisoners.

CHAPTER X. How Sir Launcelot rode with a damosel and slew a knight that distressed all ladies
and also a villain that kept a bridge.

CHAPTER XI. How Sir Launcelot slew two giants, and made a castle free.

CHAPTER XII. How Sir Launcelot rode disguised in Sir Kay's harness, and how he smote down a knight.

CHAPTER XIII. How Sir Launcelot jousted against four knights of the Round Table and overthrew them.

CHAPTER XIV. How Sir Launcelot followed a brachet into a castle, where he found a dead knight,
and how he after was required of a damosel to heal her

CHAPTER XV. How Sir Launcelot came into the Chapel Perilous and gat there of a dead corpse
a piece of the cloth and a sword.

CHAPTER XVI. How Sir Launcelot at the request of a lady recovered a falcon, by which he was
deceived.

CHAPTER XVII. How Sir Launcelot overtook a knight which chased his wife to have slain her,
and how he said to him.

CHAPTER XVIII. How Sir Launcelot came to King Arthur's Court, and how there were recounted
all his noble feats and acts.

BOOK VII.

CHAPTER I. How Beaumains came to King Arthur's Court and demanded three petitions of King Arthur.

CHAPTER II. How Sir Launcelot and Sir Gawaine were wroth because Sir Kay mocked Beaumains,
and of a damosel which desired a knight to fight for a

CHAPTER III. How Beaumains desired the battle, and how it was granted to him, and how he desired
to be made knight of Sir Launcelot.

CHAPTER IV. How Beaumains departed, and how he gat of Sir Kay a spear and a shield, and how
he jousted with Sir Launcelot.

CHAPTER V. How Beaumains told to Sir Launcelot his name, and how he was dubbed knight of Sir
Launcelot, and after overtook the damosel.

CHAPTER VI. How Beaumains fought and slew two knights at a passage.

CHAPTER VII. How Beaumains fought with the Knight of the Black Launds, and fought with him
till he fell down and died.

CHAPTER VIII. How the brother of the knight that was slain met with Beaumains, and fought with
Beaumains till he was yielden.

CHAPTER IX. How the damosel again rebuked Beaumains, and would not suffer him to sit at her
table, but called him kitchen boy.

CHAPTER X. How the third brother, called the Red Knight, jousted and fought against Beaumains,
and how Beaumains overcame him.

CHAPTER XI. How Sir Beaumains suffered great rebukes of the damosel, and he suffered it patiently.

CHAPTER XII. How Beaumains fought with Sir Persant of Inde, and made him to be yielden.

CHAPTER XIII. Of the goodly communication between Sir Persant and Beaumains, and how he told
him that his name was Sir Gareth.

CHAPTER XIV. How the lady that was besieged had word from her sister how she had brought a
knight to fight for her, and what battles he had achieved.

CHAPTER XV. How the damosel and Beaumains came to the siege; and came to a sycamore tree, and
there Beaumains blew a horn, and then the Knight of the

CHAPTER XVI. How the two knights met together, and of their talking, and how they began their
battle.

CHAPTER XVII. How after long fighting Beaumains overcame the knight and would have slain him,
but at the request of the lords he saved his life, and

CHAPTER XVIII. How the knight yielded him, and how Beaumains made him to go unto King Arthur's
court, and to cry Sir Launcelot mercy.

CHAPTER XIX How Beaumains came to the lady, and when he came to the castle the gates were closed
against him, and of the words that the lady said to

CHAPTER XX. How Sir Beaumains rode after to rescue his dwarf, and came into the castle where
he was.

CHAPTER XXI. How Sir Gareth, otherwise called Beaumains, came to the presence of his lady,
and how they took acquaintance, and of their love.

CHAPTER XXII. How at night came an armed knight, and fought with Sir Gareth, and he, sore hurt
in the thigh, smote off the knight's head.

CHAPTER XXIII. How the said knight came again the next night and was beheaded again, and how
at the feast of Pentecost all the knights that Sir Gareth

CHAPTER XXIV. How King Arthur pardoned them, and demanded of them where Sir Gareth was.

CHAPTER XXV. How the Queen of Orkney came to this feast of Pentecost, and Sir Gawaine and his
brethren came to ask her blessing. [*3]

CHAPTER XXVI. How King Arthur sent for the Lady Lionesse, and how she let cry a tourney at
her castle, whereas came many knights.

CHAPTER XXVII. How King Arthur went to the tournament with his knights, and how the lady received
him worshipfully, and how the knights encountered.

CHAPTER XXVIII. How the knights bare them in the battle.

CHAPTER XXIX. Yet of the said tournament.

CHAPTER XXX. How Sir Gareth was espied by the heralds, and how he escaped out of the field.

CHAPTER XXXI. This tower is generally supposed to be the oldest in the fortifications. Its masonry
is similar to that of the wall with which it is connected, and which
is known to have been built about the same time as the abbey of St.
Stephen.

The appearance of it is plain, massy, and rugged; and it forms a picturesque object. Such also
is the Tour au Massacre, which is situated at the confluence of the
Orne and Odon.

The tower in question is said to have received its gloomy title from a massacre, of which our
countrymen were guilty, at the time when the town was taken in 1346.

There is, however, reason to believe that this tale is a mere fiction. Huet, at the same time
that he does not venture so far to oppose popular belief, as altogether
to deny the truth of the story of the massacre, adds, that the original
name of the tower was la Tour Machart, and suspects its present appellation
to be no more than a corruption of the former one.

Renauld Machart was bailiff of Caen two years prior to the capture of the place by Edward IIIrd;
and the probability is, that the tower was erected by him in those
times of alarm, and thus took his name.

It has been supposed that the figure sculptured upon it, may also
be intended for a representation of Machart himself.

Caen contains another castellated building, which might easily mislead the studious antiquarian.
The Château de Calix, as it is sometimes called, is situated at the
extremity of the suburb known by that name; and the curious inhabitants
of Caen usually suppose that it was erected for the purpose of commanding
the river, whilst it flowed in its ancient, but now deserted, bed;
or, at least, that it replaces such a fortification.

According to the learned Abbé de la Rue, however, and he is a most competent authority, no real
fortification ever existed here; but the castle was raised in conformity
to the caprice of Girard de Nollent, the wealthy owner of the property,
who flourished towards the beginning of the sixteenth century.-- Girard
de Nollent's mansion is now occupied by a farmer.

It has four fronts. The windows are square-headed, and surrounded by elegant mouldings; but the
mullions have been destroyed.

One medallion yet remains over the entrance; and it is probable that the walls were originally
covered with ornaments of this kind.

Such, at least, is the case with the towers and walls, which, surrounding
the dwelling, have given it a castellated aspect.

The circular tower nearest the gate forms the subject of the accompanying sketch: it is dotted
on all sides with busts in basso-relievo, enclosed in medallions,
and of great diversity of character.

One is a frowning warrior, arrayed in the helmet of an emperor of the lower empire; another,
is a damsel attired in a ruff; a third, is a turbaned turk.

The borders of the medallions are equally diversified: the cordelière, well known in French
heraldry, the vine-leaf, the oak-leaf, all appear as ornaments.

The battlements are surmounted with two statues, apparently Neptune, or a sea-god, and Hercules.
These heathen deities not being very familiar to the good people
of Caen, they have converted them, in imagination, into two gens-d'armes,
mounting guard on the castle; and hence it is frequently called the
Château de la Gendarmerie.

Some of the busts are accompanied by inscriptions-- "Vincit pudicitiam mors;" "Vincit amor pudicitiam;"
"Amor vincit mortem;" and all seem to be either historical or allegorical.

The battlements of the curtain-wall are ornamented in the same manner. The farther tower has
less decoration, and is verging to decay.

I have given these details, because the castle of Calix is a specimen
of a style of which we have no fair parallel in England, and the workmanship
is far from being contemptible.

In the Rue St. Jean is a house with decorations, in the same style,
but more sumptuous, or, perhaps I ought rather to say, more perfect.

Both of them are most probably of nearly the same date: for it was
principally during the reigns of Charles VIIIth and Louis XIIth, that
the practice prevailed in France, of ornamenting the fronts of houses
with medallions.

The custom died away under Francis Ist. How Sir Lamorak jousted with thirty knights, and Sir Tristram at the request
of King Mark smote his horse down.

CHAPTER XXXIV. How Sir Lamorak sent an horn to King Mark in despite of Sir Tristram, and how
Sir Tristram was driven into a chapel.

CHAPTER XXXV. How Sir Tristram was holpen by his men, and of Queen Isoud which was put in a
lazar-cote, and how Tristram was hurt.

CHAPTER XXXVI. How Sir Tristram served in war King Howel of Brittany, and slew his adversary
in the field.

CHAPTER XXXVII. How Sir Suppinabiles told Sir Tristram how he was defamed in the court of King
Arthur, and of Sir Lamorak.

CHAPTER XXXVIII. How Sir Tristram and his wife arrived in Wales, and how he met there with
Sir Lamorak.

CHAPTER XXXIX. How Sir Tristram fought with Sir Nabon, and overcame him, and made Sir Segwarides
lord of the isle.

CHAPTER XL

CHAPTER XLI. How Sir Lamorak slew Sir Frol, and of the courteous fighting with Sir Belliance
his brother.

BOOK IX.

CHAPTER I. How a young man came into the court of King Arthur, and how Sir Kay called him in
scorn La Cote Male Taile.

CHAPTER II. How a damosel came into the court and desired a knight to take on him an enquest,
which La Cote Male Taile emprised.

CHAPTER III. How La Cote Male Taile overthrew Sir Dagonet the king's fool, and of the rebuke
that he had of the damosel.

CHAPTER IV. How La Cote Male Taile fought against an hundred knights, and how he escaped by
the mean of a lady.

CHAPTER V. How Sir Launcelot came to the court and heard of La Cote Male Taile, and how he
followed after him, and how La Cote Male Taile was

CHAPTER VI. How Sir Launcelot fought with six knights, and after with Sir Brian, and how he
delivered the prisoners.

CHAPTER VII. How Sir Launcelot met with the damosel named Male disant, and named her the Damosel
Bienpensant.

CHAPTER VIII. How La Cote Male Taile was taken prisoner, and after rescued by Sir Launcelot,
and how Sir Launcelot overcame four brethren.

CHAPTER IX. How Sir Launcelot made La Cote Male Taile lord of the Castle of Pendragon, and
after was made knight of the Round Table.

CHAPTER X. How La Beale Isoud sent letters to Sir Tristram by her maid Bragwaine, and of divers
adventures of Sir Tristram.

CHAPTER XI. How Sir Tristram met with Sir Lamorak de Galis, and how they fought, and after
accorded never to fight together.

CHAPTER XII. How Sir Palomides followed the Questing Beast, and smote down Sir Tristram and
Sir Lamorak with one spear.

CHAPTER XIII. How Sir Lamorak met with Sir Meliagaunce, and fought together for the beauty
of Dame Guenever.

CHAPTER XIV. How Sir Meliagaunce told for what cause they fought, and how Sir Lamorak jousted
with King Arthur.

CHAPTER XV. How Sir Kay met with Sir Tristram, and after of the shame spoken of the knights
of Cornwall, and how they jousted.

CHAPTER XVI. How King Arthur was brought into the Forest Perilous, and how Sir Tristram saved
his life.

CHAPTER XVII. How Sir Tristram came to La Beale Isoud, and how Kehydius began to love Beale
Isoud, and of a letter that Tristram found.

CHAPTER XIX. How Sir Tristram soused Dagonet in a well, and how Palomides sent a damosel to
seek Tristram, and how Palomides met with King Mark.

CHAPTER XX. How it was noised how Sir Tristram was dead, and how La Beale Isoud would have
slain herself.

CHAPTER XXI. How King Mark found Sir Tristram naked, and made him to be borne home to Tintagil,
and how he was there known by a brachet.

CHAPTER XXII. How King Mark, by the advice of his council, banished Sir Tristram out of Cornwall
the term of ten years.

CHAPTER XXIII. How a damosel sought help to help Sir Launcelot against thirty knights, and
how Sir Tristram fought with them.

CHAPTER XXIV. How Sir Tristram and Sir Dinadan came to a lodging where they must joust with
two knights.

CHAPTER XXV. How Sir Tristram jousted with Sir Kay and Sir Sagramore le Desirous, and how Sir
Gawaine turned Sir Tristram from Morgan le Fay.

CHAPTER XXVI. How Sir Tristram and Sir Gawaine rode to have foughten with the thirty knights,
but they durst not come out.

CHAPTER XXVII. How damosel Bragwaine found Tristram sleeping by a well, and how she delivered
letters to him from La Beale Isoud.

CHAPTER XXVIII. How Sir Tristram had a fall with Sir Palomides, and how Launcelot overthrew
two knights.

CHAPTER XXIX. How Sir Launcelot jousted with Palomides and overthrew him, and after he was
assailed with twelve knights.

CHAPTER XXX. How Sir Tristram behaved him the first day of the tournament, and there he had
the prize.

CHAPTER XXXI. How Sir Tristram returned against King Arthur's party because he saw Sir Palomides
on that party.

CHAPTER XXXII. How Sir Tristram found Palomides by a well, and brought him with him to his lodging.

CHAPTER XXXIII. How Sir Tristram smote down Sir Palomides, and how he jousted with King Arthur,
and other feats.

CHAPTER XXXIV. How Sir Launcelot hurt Sir Tristram, and how after Sir Tristram smote down Sir
Palomides.

CHAPTER XXXV. How the prize of the third day was given to Sir Launcelot, and Sir Launcelot
gave it to Sir Tristram.

CHAPTER XXXVI. How Palomides came to the castle where Sir Tristram was, and of the quest that
Sir Launcelot and ten knights made for Sir Tristram.

CHAPTER XXXVII. How Sir Tristram, Sir Palomides, and Sir Dinadan were taken and put in prison.

CHAPTER XXXVIII. How King Mark was sorry for the good renown of Sir Tristram. Some of King
Arthur's knights jousted with knights of Cornwall.

CHAPTER XXXIX. Of the treason of King Mark, and how Sir Gaheris smote him down and Andred his
cousin.

CHAPTER XL. How after that Sir Tristram, Sir Palomides, and Sir Dinadan had been long in prison
they were delivered.

CHAPTER XLI. How Sir Dinadan rescued a lady from Sir Breuse Saunce Pite, and how Sir Tristram
received a shield of Morgan le Fay.

CHAPTER XLII. How Sir Tristram took with him the shield, and also how he slew the paramour
of Morgan le Fay.

CHAPTER XLIII. How Morgan le Fay buried her paramour, and how Sir Tristram praised Sir Launcelot
and his kin.

CHAPTER XLIV. How Sir Tristram at a tournament bare the shield that Morgan le Fay delivered to him.

BIBLIOGRAPHICAL NOTE

THE Morte D'Arthur was finished, as the epilogue tells us, in the ninth year of Edward IV.,
i.e. between March 4, 1469 and the same date in 1470. It is thus, fitly enough, the last important
English book written before the introduction of printing into this country, and since no manuscript
of it has come down to us it is also the first English classic for our knowledge of which we
are entirely dependent on a printed text. Caxton's story of how the book was brought to him
and he was induced to print it may be read farther on in his own preface. From this we learn
also that he was not only the printer of the book, but to some extent its editor also, dividing
Malory's work into twenty-one books, splitting up the books into chapters, by no means skilfully,
and supplying the "Rubrish" or chapter-headings. It may be added that Caxton's preface contains,
moreover, a brief criticism which, on the points on which it touches, is still the soundest
and most sympathetic that has been written.

Caxton finished his edition the last day of July 1485, some fifteen or sixteen years after
Malory wrote his epilogue. It is clear that the author was then dead, or the printer would
not have acted as a clumsy editor to the book, and recent discoveries (if bibliography may,
for the moment, enlarge its bounds to mention such matters) have revealed with tolerable certainty
when Malory died and who he was. In letters to The Athenaeum in July 1896 Mr. T. Williams pointed
out that the name of a Sir Thomas Malorie occurred among those of a number of other Lancastrians
excluded from a general pardon granted by Edward IV. in 1468, and that a William Mallerye was
mentioned in the same year as taking part in a Lancastrian rising. In September 1897, again,
in another letter to the same paper, Mr. A. T. Martin reported the finding of the will of a
Thomas Malory of Papworth, a hundred partly in Cambridgeshire, partly in Hunts. This will was
made on September 16, 1469, and as it was proved the 27th of the next month the testator must
have been in immediate expectation of death. It contains the most careful provision for the
education and starting in life of a family of three daughters and seven sons, of whom the youngest
seems to have been still an infant. We cannot say with certainty that this Thomas Malory, whose
last thoughts were so busy for his children, was our author, or that the Lancastrian knight
discovered by Mr. Williams was identical with either or both, but such evidence as the Morte
D'Arthur offers favours such a belief. 37 of Book ix. in the touching passage, surely inspired
by personal experience, as to the sickness "that is the greatest pain a prisoner may have";
and the reflections on English fickleness in the first chapter of Book xxi., though the Wars
of the Roses might have inspired them in any one, come most naturally from an author who was
a Lancastrian knight.

If the Morte D'Arthur was really written in prison and by a prisoner distressed by ill-health
as well as by lack of liberty, surely no task was ever better devised to while away weary hours.
Leaving abundant scope for originality in selection, modification, and arrangement, as a compilation
and translation it had in it that mechanical element which adds the touch of restfulness to
literary work. No original, it is said, has yet been found for Book vii., and it is possible
that none will ever be forthcoming for chap. 20 of Book xviii., which describes the arrival
of the body of the Fair Maiden of Astolat at Arthur's court, or vii for chap. 25 of the same
book, with its discourse on true love; but the great bulk of the work has been traced chapter
by chapter to the "Merlin" of Robert de Borron and his successors (Bks. i.-iv.), the English
metrical romance La Morte Arthur of the Thornton manuscript (Bk. v.), the French romances of
Tristan (Bks. viii.-x.) and of Launcelot (Bks. vi., xi.-xix.), and lastly to the English prose
Morte Arthur of Harley MS. 2252 (Bks. xviii., xx., xxi.). As to Malory's choice of his authorities
critics have not failed to point out that now and again he gives a worse version where a better
has come down to us, and if he had been able to order a complete set of Arthurian manuscripts
from his bookseller, no doubt he would have done even better than he did! But of the skill,
approaching to original genius, with which he used the books from which he worked there is
little dispute.

Malory died leaving his work obviously unrevised, and in this condition it was brought to Caxton,
who prepared it for the press with his usual enthusiasm in the cause of good literature, and
also, it must be added, with his usual carelessness. New chapters are sometimes made to begin
in the middle of a sentence, and in addition to simple misprints there are numerous passages
in which it is impossible to believe that we have the text as Malory intended it to stand.
After Caxton's edition Malory's manuscript must have disappeared, and subsequent editions are
differentiated only by the degree of closeness with which they follow the first. Editions appeared
printed by Wynkyn de Worde in 1498 and 1529, by William Copland in 1559, by Thomas East about
1585, and by Thomas Stansby in 1634, each printer apparently taking the text of his immediate
predecessor and reproducing it with modifications. Stansby's edition served for reprints in
1816 and 1856 (the latter edited by Thomas Wright); but in 1817 an edition supervised by Robert
Southey went back to Caxton's text, though to a copy (only two are extant, and only one perfect!)
in which eleven leaves were supplied from Wynkyn de Worde's reprint. In 1868 Sir Edward Strachey
produced for the present publishers a reprint of Southey's text in modern spelling, with the
substitution of current words for those now obsolete, and the softening of a handful of passages
likely, he thought, to prevent the book being placed in the hands of boys. In 1889 a boon was
conferred on scholars by the publication of Dr. H. Oskar Sommer's page-for-page reprint of
Caxton's text, with an elaborate discussion of Malory's sources. Dr. Sommer's edition was used
by Sir E. Strachey to revise his Globe text, and in 1897 Mr. Israel Gollancz produced for the
"Temple Classics" a very pretty edition in which Sir Edward Strachey's principles of modernisation
in spelling and punctuation were adopted, but with the restoration of obsolete words and omitted
phrases. As to the present edition, Sir Edward Strachey altered with so sparing a hand that
on many pages differences between his version and that here printed will be looked for in vain;
but the most anxious care has been taken to produce a text modernised as to its spelling, but
in other respects in accurate accordance with Caxton's text, as represented by Dr Sommer's
reprint. Obvious misprints have been silently corrected, but in a few cases notes show where
emendations have been introduced from Wynkyn de Worde--not that Wynkyn had any more right to
emend Caxton than we, but because even a printer's conjecture gains a little sanctity after
four centuries. The restoration of obsolete words has necessitated a much fuller glossary,
and the index of names has therefore been separated from it and enlarged. In its present form
the index is the work of Mr. Henry Littlehales.

    A. W. POLLARD.

PREFACE OF WILLIAM CAXTON

AFTER that I had accomplished and finished divers histories, as well of contemplation as of
other historial and worldly acts of great conquerors and princes, and also certain books of
ensamples and doctrine, many noble and divers gentlemen of this realm of England came and demanded
me many and oft times, wherefore that I have not do made and imprint the noble history of the
Saint Greal, and of the most renowned Christian king, first and chief of the three best Christian,
and worthy, King Arthur, which ought most to be remembered among us Englishmen to-fore all
other Christian kings; for it is notoyrly known through the universal world, that there be
nine worthy and the best that ever were, that is to wit, three Paynims, three Jews, and three
Christian men. As for the Paynims, they were to-fore the Incarnation of Christ, which were
named, the first Hector of Troy, of whom the history is comen both in ballad and in prose,
the second Alexander the Great, and the third Julius Caesar, Emperor of Rome, of whom the histories
be well known and had. And as for the three Jews, which also were to-fore the incarnation of
our Lord, of whom the first was duke Joshua which brought the children of Israel into the land
of behest, the second David king of Jerusalem, and the third Judas Machabeus, of these three
the Bible rehearseth all their noble histories and acts. And since the said Incarnation have
been three noble Christian men, stalled and admitted through the universal world into the number
of the nine best and worthy. Of whom was first the noble Arthur, whose noble acts I purpose
to write in this present book here following. The second was Charlemain, or Charles the Great,
of whom the history is had in many places, both in French and in English. And the third and
last was Godfrey of Boloine, of whose acts and life I made a book unto the excellent prince
and king of noble memory, King Edward the Fourth.

The said noble gentlemen instantly required me to imprint the history of the said noble king
and conqueror King Arthur, and of his knights, with the history of the Saint Greal, and of
the death and ending of the said Arthur; affirming that I ought rather to imprint his acts
and noble feats, than of Godfrey of Boloine, or any of the other eight, considering that he
was a man born within this realm, and king and emperor of the same: and that there be in French
divers and many noble volumes of his acts, and also of his knights. To whom I answered that
divers men hold opinion that there was no such Arthur, and that all such books as been made
of him be feigned and fables, because that some chronicles make of him no mention, nor remember
him nothing, nor of his knights. Whereto they answered, and one in special said, that in him
that should say or think that there was never such a king called Arthur might well be aretted
great folly and blindness. For he said that there were many evidences of the contrary. First
ye may see his sepulchre in the monastery of Glastonbury. And also in Policronicon, in the
fifth book the sixth chapter, and in the seventh book the twenty-third chapter, where his body
was buried, and after found, and translated into the said monastery. Ye shall see also in the
history of Bochas, in his book De Casu Principum, part of his noble acts, and also of his fall.
Also Galfridus in his British book recounteth his life: and in divers places of England many
remembrances be yet of him, and shall remain perpetually, and also of his knights. First in
the abbey of Westminster, at St. Edward's shrine, remaineth the print of his seal in red wax
closed in beryl, in which is written, Patricius Arthurus Britannie, Gallie, Germanie, Dacie,
Imperator. Item in the castle of Dover ye may see Gawaine's skull, and Cradok's mantle: at
Winchester the Round Table: in other places Launcelot's sword and many other things. Then all
these things considered, there can no man reasonably gainsay but there was a king of this land
named Arthur. For in all places, Christian and heathen, he is reputed and taken for one of
the nine worthy, and the first of the three Christian men. And also, he is more spoken of beyond
the sea, more books made of his noble acts, than there be in England, as well in Dutch, Italian,
Spanish, and Greekish, as in French. And yet of record remain in witness of him in Wales, in
the town of Camelot, the great stones and the marvellous works of iron lying under the ground,
and royal vaults, which divers now living have seen. Wherefore it is a marvel why he is no
more renowned in his own country, save only it accordeth to the Word of God, which saith that
no man is accepted for a prophet in his own country.

Then all these things aforesaid alleged, I could not well deny but that there was such a noble
king named Arthur, and reputed one of the nine worthy, and first and chief of the Christian
men. And many noble volumes be made of him and of his noble knights in French, which I have
seen and read beyond the sea, which be not had in our maternal tongue. But in Welsh be many
and also in French, and some in English but nowhere nigh all. Wherefore, such as have late
been drawn out briefly into English I have after the simple conning that God hath sent to me,
under the favour and correction of all noble lords and gentlemen, enprised to imprint a book
of the noble histories of the said King Arthur, and of certain of his knights, after a copy
unto me delivered, which copy Sir Thomas Malorye did take out of certain books of French, and
reduced it into English. And I, according to my copy, have done set it in imprint, to the intent
that noble men may see and learn the noble acts of chivalry, the gentle and virtuous deeds
that some knights used in those days, by which they came to honour, and how they that were
vicious were punished and oft put to shame and rebuke; humbly beseeching all noble lords and
ladies, with all other estates of what estate or degree they been of, that shall see and read
in this said book and work, that they take the good and honest acts in their remembrance, and
to follow the same. Wherein they shall find many joyous and pleasant histories, and noble and
renowned acts of humanity, gentleness, and chivalry. For herein may be seen noble chivalry,
courtesy, humanity, friendliness, hardiness, love, friendship, cowardice, murder, hate, virtue,
and sin. Do after the good and leave the evil, and it shall bring you to good fame and renown.
And for to pass the time this book shall be pleasant to read in, but for to give faith and
belief that all is true that is contained herein, ye be at your liberty: but all is written
for our doctrine, and for to beware that we fall not to vice nor sin, but to exercise and follow
virtue, by which we may come and attain to good fame and renown in this life, and after this
short and transitory life to come unto everlasting bliss in heaven; the which He grant us that
reigneth in heaven, the blessed Trinity. Amen.

Then to proceed forth in this said book, which I direct unto all noble princes, lords and ladies,
gentlemen or gentlewomen, that desire to read or hear read of the noble and joyous history
of the great conqueror and excellent king, King Arthur, sometime king of this noble realm,
then called Britain; I, William Caxton, simple person, present this book following, which I
have enprised to imprint: and treateth of the noble acts, feats of arms of chivalry, prowess,
hardiness, humanity, love, courtesy, and very gentleness, with many wonderful histories and
adventures. And for to understand briefly the content of this volume, I have divided it into
XXI Books, and every book chaptered, as hereafter shall by God's grace follow. The First Book
shall treat how Uther Pendragon gat the noble conqueror King Arthur, and containeth xxviii
chapters. The Second Book treateth of Balin the noble knight, and containeth xix chapters.
The Third Book treateth of the marriage of King Arthur to Queen Guenever, with other matters,
and containeth xv chapters. The Fourth Book, how Merlin was assotted, and of war made to King
Arthur, and containeth xxix chapters. The Fifth Book treateth of the conquest of Lucius the
emperor, and containeth xii chapters. The Sixth Book treateth of Sir Launcelot and Sir Lionel,
and marvellous adventures, and containeth xviii chapters. The Seventh Book treateth of a noble
knight called Sir Gareth, and named by Sir Kay Beaumains, and containeth xxxvi chapters. The
Eighth Book treateth of the birth of Sir Tristram the noble knight, and of his acts, and containeth
xli chapters. The Ninth Book treateth of a knight named by Sir Kay Le Cote Male Taille, and
also of Sir Tristram, and containeth xliv chapters. The Tenth Book treateth of Sir Tristram,
and other marvellous adventures, and containeth lxxxviii chapters. The Eleventh Book treateth
of Sir Launcelot and Sir Galahad, and containeth xiv chapters. The Twelfth Book treateth of
Sir Launcelot and his madness, and containeth xiv chapters. The Thirteenth Book treateth how
Galahad came first to king Arthur's court, and the quest how the Sangreal was begun, and containeth
xx chapters. The Fourteenth Book treateth of the quest of the Sangreal, and containeth x chapters.
The Fifteenth Book treateth of Sir Launcelot, and containeth vi chapters. The Sixteenth Book
treateth of Sir Bors and Sir Lionel his brother, and containeth xvii chapters. The Seventeenth
Book treateth of the Sangreal, and containeth xxiii chapters. The Eighteenth Book treateth
of Sir Launcelot and the queen, and containeth xxv chapters. The Nineteenth Book treateth of
Queen Guenever and Launcelot, and containeth xiii chapters. The Twentieth Book treateth of
the piteous death of Arthur, and containeth xxii chapters. The Twenty-first Book treateth of
his last departing, and how Sir Launcelot came to revenge his death, and containeth xiii chapters.
The sum is twenty-one books, which contain the sum of five hundred and seven chapters, as more
plainly shall follow hereafter. And so by means King Uther sent for this duke, charging him
to bring his wife with him, for she was called a fair lady, and a passing wise, and her name
was called Igraine.

So when the duke and his wife were come unto the king, by the means of great lords they were
accorded both. The king liked and loved this lady well, and he made them great cheer out of
measure, and desired to have lain by her. But she was a passing good woman, and would not assent
unto the king. And then she told the duke her husband, and said, I suppose that we were sent
for that I should be dishonoured; wherefore, husband, I counsel you, that we depart from hence
suddenly, that we may ride all night unto our own castle. And in like wise as she said so they
departed, that neither the king nor none of his council were ware of their departing. All so
soon as King Uther knew of their departing so suddenly, he was wonderly wroth. Then he called
to him his privy council, and told them of the sudden departing of the duke and his wife.

Then they advised the king to send for the duke and his wife by a great charge; and if he will
not come at your summons, then may ye do your best, then have ye cause to make mighty war upon
him. So that was done, and the messengers had their answers; and that was this shortly, that
neither he nor his wife would not come at him.

Then was the king wonderly wroth. And then the king sent him plain word again, and bade him
be ready and stuff him and garnish him, for within forty days he would fetch him out of the
biggest castle that he hath.

When the duke had this warning, anon he went and furnished and garnished two strong castles
of his, of the which the one hight Tintagil, and the other castle hight Terrabil. So his wife
Dame Igraine he put in the castle of Tintagil, and himself he put in the castle of Terrabil,
the which had many issues and posterns out. Then in all haste came Uther with a great host,
and laid a siege about the castle of Terrabil. And there he pight many pavilions, and there
was great war made on both parties, and much people slain. So came to the king Uther Sir Ulfius,
a noble knight, and asked the king why he was sick. I shall tell thee, said the king, I am
sick for anger and for love of fair Igraine, that I may not be whole. And he said he had little
ado to tell him. Well, said Merlin, I know whom thou seekest, for thou seekest Merlin; therefore
seek no farther, for I am he; and if King Uther will well reward me, and be sworn unto me to
fulfil my desire, that shall be his honour and profit more than mine; for I shall cause him
to have all his desire. All this will I undertake, said Ulfius, that there shall be nothing
reasonable but thou shalt have thy desire. Well, said Merlin, he shall have his intent and
desire. And therefore, said Merlin, ride on your way, for I will not be long behind.

THEN Ulfius was glad, and rode on more than a pace till that he came to King Uther Pendragon,
and told him he had met with Merlin. Where is he? said the king. Sir, said Ulfius, he will
not dwell long. Therewithal Ulfius was ware where Merlin stood at the porch of the pavilion's
door. And then Merlin was bound to come to the king. When King Uther saw him, he said he was
welcome. Sir, said Merlin, I know all your heart every deal; so ye will be sworn unto me as
ye be a true king anointed, to fulfil my desire, ye shall have your desire. Then the king was
sworn upon the Four Evangelists. Sir, said Merlin, this is my desire: the first night that
ye shall lie by Igraine ye shall get a child on her, and when that is born, that it shall be
delivered to me for to nourish there as I will have it; for it shall be your worship, and the
child's avail, as mickle as the child is worth. I will well, said the king, as thou wilt have
it. Now make you ready, said Merlin, this night ye shall lie with Igraine in the castle of
Tintagil; and ye shall be like the duke her husband, Ulfius shall be like Sir Brastias, a knight
of the duke's, and I will be like a knight that hight Sir Jordanus, a knight of the duke's.
But wait ye make not many questions with her nor her men, but say ye are diseased, and so hie
you to bed, and rise not on the morn till I come to you, for the castle of Tintagil is but
ten miles hence; so this was done as they devised. But the duke of Tintagil espied how the
king rode from the siege of Terrabil, and therefore that night he issued out of the castle
at a postern for to have distressed the king's host. And so, through his own issue, the duke
himself was slain or ever the king came at the castle of Tintagil.

So after the death of the duke, King Uther lay with Igraine more than three hours after his
death, and begat on her that night Arthur, and on day came Merlin to the king, and bade him
make him ready, and so he kissed the lady Igraine and departed in all haste. But when the lady
heard tell of the duke her husband, and by all record he was dead or ever King Uther came to
her, then she marvelled who that might be that lay with her in likeness of her lord; so she
mourned privily and held her peace. Then all the barons by one assent prayed the king of accord
betwixt the lady Igraine and him; the king gave them leave, for fain would he have been accorded
with her. So the king put all the trust in Ulfius to entreat between them, so by the entreaty
at the last the king and she met together. Now will we do well, said Ulfius, our king is a
lusty knight and wifeless, and my lady Igraine is a passing fair lady; it were great joy unto
us all, an it might please the king to make her his queen. Unto that they all well accorded
and moved it to the king. And anon, like a lusty knight, he assented thereto with good will,
and so in all haste they were married in a morning with great mirth and joy.

And King Lot of Lothian and of Orkney then wedded Margawse that was Gawaine's mother, and King
Nentres of the land of Garlot wedded Elaine. All this was done at the request of King Uther.
And the third sister Morgan le Fay was put to school in a nunnery, and there she learned so
much that she was a great clerk of necromancy. And after she was wedded to King Uriens of the
land of Gore, that was Sir Ewain's le Blanchemain's father.

CHAPTER III. Of the birth of King Arthur and of his nurture.

THEN Queen Igraine waxed daily greater and greater, so it befell after within half a year,
as King Uther lay by his queen, he asked her, by the faith she owed to him, whose was the body;
then she sore abashed to give answer. Dismay you not, said the king, but tell me the truth,
and I shall love you the better, by the faith of my body. Sir, said she, I shall tell you the
truth. The same night that my lord was dead, the hour of his death, as his knights record,
there came into my castle of Tintagil a man like my lord in speech and in countenance, and
two knights with him in likeness of his two knights Brastias and Jordanus, and so I went unto
bed with him as I ought to do with my lord, and the same night, as I shall answer unto God,
this child was begotten upon me. That is truth, said the king, as ye say; for it was I myself
that came in the likeness, and therefore dismay you not, for I am father of the child; and
there he told her all the cause, how it was by Merlin's counsel. Then the queen made great
joy when she knew who was the father of her child.

Soon came Merlin unto the king, and said, Sir, ye must purvey you for the nourishing of your
child. As thou wilt, said the king, be it. Well, said Merlin, I know a lord of yours in this
land, that is a passing true man and a faithful, and he shall have the nourishing of your child,
and his name is Sir Ector, and he is a lord of fair livelihood in many parts in England and
Wales; and this lord, Sir Ector, let him be sent for, for to come and speak with you, and desire
him yourself, as he loveth you, that he will put his own child to nourishing to another woman,
and that his wife nourish yours. And when the child is born let it be delivered to me at yonder
privy postern unchristened. So like as Merlin devised it was done. And when Sir Ector was come
he made fiaunce to the king for to nourish the child like as the king desired; and there the
king granted Sir Ector great rewards. They'll kill us, and then they'll go in and stamp Earth
flat! You know it as well as I do.

"" I don't know, Mac, "I said." Go easy. "I could feel the knots in my stomach. I didn't want
any trouble. Not from the stoker, not from Mac.

None of us wanted trouble-- not even Mac, but he'd cause it to get
rid of it, if you follow what I mean about his kind of man.

Mac hit the viewport with his fist." Easy! Easy-- nothing's easy. I hate this life, "he said in
a murderous voice." I don't know why I keep signing on. Mars to Centaurus and back, back and forth,
in an old rust tub that's going to blow herself up one of these--
"***** Daniels called me on the phone from Communications."

Turn up your Intercom volume, "he said."

The stoker's jamming the circuit. "I kicked the selector switch over, and this is what I got:"--
so there we were at a million per, and the air was gettin'thick.

The Skipper says'Cheer up, brave boys, we'll--'"He was singing.

He had
a terrible voice, but he could carry a tune, and he was hammering
it out at the top of his lungs."

Twas the last cruise
of the Venus, by God you should of seen us! The pipes were full of whisky,
and just to make things risky, the jets were... "The crew were chuckling
into their own chest phones.

I could hear Daniels trying to cut
him off. But he kept going. I started laughing myself. No one's supposed
to jam an intercom, but it made the crew feel good.

THEN stood the realm in great jeopardy long while, for every lord that was mighty of men made
him strong, and many weened to have been king. So the Archbishop, by the advice of Merlin,
sent for all the lords and gentlemen of arms that they should come by Christmas even unto London.
And many of them made them clean of their life, that their prayer might be the more acceptable
unto God. So in the greatest church of London, whether it were Paul's or not the French book
maketh no mention, all the estates were long or day in the church for to pray. I command, said
the Archbishop, that ye keep you within your church and pray unto God still, that no man touch
the sword till the high mass be all done. So when all masses were done all the lords went to
behold the stone and the sword. And when they saw the scripture some assayed, such as would
have been king. But none might stir the sword nor move it. He is not here, said the Archbishop,
that shall achieve the sword, but doubt not God will make him known. But this is my counsel,
said the Archbishop, that we let purvey ten knights, men of good fame, and they to keep this
sword. So it was ordained, and then there was made a cry, that every man should assay that
would, for to win the sword. So as they rode to the jousts-ward, Sir Kay lost his sword, for
he had left it at his father's lodging, and so he prayed young Arthur for to ride for his sword.
I will well, said Arthur, and rode fast after the sword, and when he came home, the lady and
all were out to see the jousting. So when he came to the churchyard, Sir Arthur alighted and
tied his horse to the stile, and so he went to the tent, and found no knights there, for they
were at the jousting. And anon he made Sir Kay swear upon a book how he came to that sword.
Sir, said Sir Kay, by my brother Arthur, for he brought it to me. How gat ye this sword? said
Sir Ector to Arthur. Sir, I will tell you. When I came home for my brother's sword, I found
nobody at home to deliver me his sword; and so I thought my brother Sir Kay should not be swordless,
and so I came hither eagerly and pulled it out of the stone without any pain. Found ye any
knights about this sword? said Sir Ector.

Now assay, said Sir Ector unto Sir Kay. And anon he pulled at the sword with all his might;
but it would not be. And therewithal Sir Ector knelt down to the earth, and Sir Kay. Alas,
said Arthur, my own dear father and brother, why kneel ye to me? Nay, nay, my lord Arthur,
it is not so; I was never your father nor of your blood, but I wot well ye are of an higher
blood than I weened ye were. And then Sir Ector told him all, how he was betaken him for to
nourish him, and by whose commandment, and by Merlin's deliverance.

Then Arthur made great dole when he understood that Sir Ector was not his father. Sir, said
Ector unto Arthur, will ye be my good and gracious lord when ye are king? Else were I to blame,
said Arthur, for ye are the man in the world that I am most beholden to, and my good lady and
mother your wife, that as well as her own hath fostered me and kept. And if ever it be God's
will that I be king as ye say, ye shall desire of me what I may do, and I shall not fail you;
God forbid I should fail you Sir, said Sir Ector, I will ask no more of you, but that ye will
make my son, your foster brother, Sir Kay, seneschal of all your lands. That shall be done,
said Arthur, and more, by the faith of my body, that never man shall have that office but he,
while he and I live Therewithal they went unto the Archbishop, and told him how the sword was
achieved, and by whom; and on Twelfth-day all the barons came thither, and to assay to take
the sword, who that would assay. But there afore them all, there might none take it out but
Arthur; wherefore there were many lords wroth, and said it was great shame unto them all and
the realm, to be overgoverned with a boy of no high blood born. And so they fell out at that
time that it was put off till Candlemas and then all the barons should meet there again; but
always the ten knights were ordained to watch the sword day and night, and so they set a pavilion
over the stone and the sword, and five always watched. So at Candlemas many more great lords
came thither for to have won the sword, but there might none prevail.

Then the Archbishop of Canterbury by Merlin's providence let purvey then of the best knights
that they might get, and such knights as Uther Pendragon loved best and most trusted in his
days. And such knights were put about Arthur as Sir Baudwin of Britain, Sir Kay, Sir Ulfius,
Sir Brastias. All these, with many other, were always about Arthur, day and night, till the
feast of Pentecost.

CHAPTER VII. How King Arthur was crowned, and how he made officers. And there was he sworn
unto his lords and the commons for to be a true king, to stand with true justice from thenceforth
the days of this life. Also then he made all lords that held of the crown to come in, and to
do service as they ought to do. And many complaints were made unto Sir Arthur of great wrongs
that were done since the death of King Uther, of many lands that were bereaved lords, knights,
ladies, and gentlemen. Wherefore King Arthur made the lands to be given again unto them that
owned them.

When this was done, that the king had stablished all the countries about London, then he let
make Sir Kay seneschal of England; and Sir Baudwin of Britain was made constable; and Sir Ulfius
was made chamberlain; and Sir Brastias was made warden to wait upon the north from Trent forwards,
for it was that time the most party the king's enemies. But within few years after Arthur won
all the north, Scotland, and all that were under their obeissance. Also Wales, a part of it,
held against Arthur, but he overcame them all, as he did the remnant, through the noble prowess
of himself and his knights of the Round Table.

THEN the king removed into Wales, and let cry a great feast that it should be holden at Pentecost
after the incoronation of him at the city of Carlion. Unto the feast came King Lot of Lothian
and of Orkney, with five hundred knights with him. Also there came to the feast King Uriens
of Gore with four hundred knights with him. Also there came to that feast King Nentres of Garlot,
with seven hundred knights with him. Also there came to the feast the king of Scotland with
six hundred knights with him, and he was but a young man. Also there came to the feast a king
that was called the King with the Hundred Knights, but he and his men were passing well beseen
at all points. Also there came the king of Carados with five hundred knights. And King Arthur
was glad of their coming, for he weened that all the kings and knights had come for great love,
and to have done him worship at his feast; wherefore the king made great joy, and sent the
kings and knights great presents. Wherefore, by the advice of his barons, he took him to a
strong tower with five hundred good men with him. And all the kings aforesaid in a manner laid
a siege to-fore him, but King Arthur was well victualed. And within fifteen days there came
Merlin among them into the city of Carlion. Then all the kings were passing glad of Merlin,
and asked him, For what cause is that boy Arthur made your king? Sirs, said Merlin, I shall
tell you the cause, for he is King Uther Pendragon's son, born in wedlock, gotten on Igraine,
the duke's wife of Tintagil. Then is he a bastard, they said all. Nay, said Merlin, after the
death of the duke, more than three hours, was Arthur begotten, and thirteen days after King
Uther wedded Igraine; and therefore I prove him he is no bastard. And who saith nay, he shall
be king and overcome all his enemies; and, or he die, he shall be long king of all England,
and have under his obeissance Wales, Ireland, and Scotland, and more realms than I will now
rehearse. Some of the kings had marvel of Merlin's words, and deemed well that it should be
as he said; and some of them laughed him to scorn, as King Lot; and more other called him a
witch. But then were they accorded with Merlin, that King Arthur should come out and speak
with the kings, and to come safe and to go safe, such surance there was made. So Merlin went
unto King Arthur, and told him how he had done, and bade him fear not, but come out boldly
and speak with them, and spare them not, but answer them as their king and chieftain; for ye
shall overcome them all, whether they will or nill.

CHAPTER IX. Of the first war that King Arthur had, and how he won the field.

THEN King Arthur came out of his tower, and had under his gown a jesseraunt of double mail,
and there went with him the Archbishop of Canterbury, and Sir Baudwin of Britain, and Sir Kay,
and Sir Brastias: these were the men of most worship that were with him. And when they were
met there was no meekness, but stout words on both sides; but always King Arthur answered them,
and said he would make them to bow an he lived. Wherefore they departed with wrath, and King
Arthur bade keep them well, and they bade the king keep him well. So the king returned him
to the tower again and armed him and all his knights. What will ye do? said Merlin to the kings;
ye were better for to stint, for ye shall not here prevail though ye were ten times so many.
Be we well advised to be afeared of a dream-reader? said King Lot. Sir, said Merlin to Arthur,
fight not with the sword that ye had by miracle, till that ye see ye go unto the worse, then
draw it out and do your best. So forthwithal King Arthur set upon them in their lodging. And
Sir Baudwin, Sir Kay, and Sir Brastias slew on the right hand and on the left hand that it
was marvel; and always King Arthur on horseback laid on with a sword, and did marvellous deeds
of arms, that many of the kings had great joy of his deeds and hardiness.

Then King Lot brake out on the back side, and the King with the Hundred Knights, and King Carados,
and set on Arthur fiercely behind him. With that Sir Arthur turned with his knights, and smote
behind and before, and ever Sir Arthur was in the foremost press till his horse was slain underneath
him. And therewith King Lot smote down King Arthur. With that his four knights received him
and set him on horseback. Then he drew his sword Excalibur, but it was so bright in his enemies'
eyes, that it gave light like thirty torches. And therewith he put them a-back, and slew much
people. And then the commons of Carlion arose with clubs and staves and slew many knights;
but all the kings held them together with their knights that were left alive, and so fled and
departed. And Merlin came unto Arthur, and counselled him to follow them no further.

SO after the feast and journey, King Arthur drew him unto London, and so by the counsel of
Merlin, the king let call his barons to council, for Merlin had told the king that the six
kings that made war upon him would in all haste be awroke on him and on his lands. Wherefore
the king asked counsel at them all. They could no counsel give, but said they were big enough.
Ye say well, said Arthur; I thank you for your good courage, but will ye all that loveth me
speak with Merlin? ye know well that he hath done much for me, and he knoweth many things,
and when he is afore you, I would that ye prayed him heartily of his best advice. All the barons
said they would pray him and desire him. So Merlin was sent for, and fair desired of all the
barons to give them best counsel. I shall say you, said Merlin, I warn you all, your enemies
are passing strong for you, and they are good men of arms as be alive, and by this time they
have gotten to them four kings more, and a mighty duke; and unless that our king have more
chivalry with him than he may make within the bounds of his own realm, an he fight with them
in battle, he shall be overcome and slain. What were best to do in this cause? said all the
barons. I shall tell you, said Merlin, mine advice; there are two brethren beyond the sea,
and they be kings both, and marvellous good men of their hands; and that one hight King Ban
of Benwick, and that other hight King Bors of Gaul, that is France. And on these two kings
warreth a mighty man of men, the King Claudas, and striveth with them for a castle, and great
war is betwixt them. But this Claudas is so mighty of goods whereof he getteth good knights,
that he putteth these two kings most part to the worse; wherefore this is my counsel, that
our king and sovereign lord send unto the kings Ban and Bors by two trusty knights with letters
well devised, that an they will come and see King Arthur and his court, and so help him in
his wars, that he will be sworn unto them to help them in their wars against King Claudas.
Now, what say ye unto this counsel? said Merlin. This is well counselled, said the king and
all the barons.

Right so in all haste there were ordained to go two knights on the message unto the two kings.
So were there made letters in the pleasant wise according unto King Arthur's desire. Ulfius
and Brastias were made the messengers, and so rode forth well horsed and well armed and as
the guise was that time, and so passed the sea and rode toward the city of Benwick. And there
besides were eight knights that espied them, and at a strait passage they met with Ulfius and
Brastias, and would have taken them prisoners; so they prayed them that they might pass, for
they were messengers unto King Ban and Bors sent from King Arthur. Therefore, said the eight
knights, ye shall die or be prisoners, for we be knights of King Claudas. And therewith two
of them dressed their spears, and Ulfius and Brastias dressed their spears, and ran together
with great raundom. And Claudas' knights brake their spears, and theirs to-held and bare the
two knights out of their saddles to the earth, and so left them lying, and rode their ways.
And the other six knights rode afore to a passage to meet with them again, and so Ulfius and
Brastias smote other two down, and so passed on their ways. And at the fourth passage there
met two for two, and both were laid unto the earth; so there was none of the eight knights
but he was sore hurt or bruised. And when they come to Benwick it fortuned there were both
kings, Ban and Bors.

And when it was told the kings that there were come messengers, there were sent unto them two
knights of worship, the one hight Lionses, lord of the country of Payarne, and Sir Phariance
a worshipful knight. Anon they asked from whence they came, and they said from King Arthur,
king of England; so they took them in their arms and made great joy each of other. But anon,
as the two kings wist they were messengers of Arthur's, there was made no tarrying, but forthwith
they spake with the knights, and welcomed them in the faithfullest wise, and said they were
most welcome unto them before all the kings living; and therewith they kissed the letters and
delivered them. And when Ban and Bors understood the letters, then they were more welcome than
they were before. And after the haste of the letters they gave them this answer, that they
would fulfil the desire of King Arthur's writing, and Ulfius and Brastias, tarry there as long
as they would, they should have such cheer as might be made them in those marches. Then Ulfius
and Brastias told the kings of the adventure at their passages of the eight knights. Ha! ah!
said Ban and Bors, they were my good friends. I would I had wist of them; they should not have
escaped so. So Ulfius and Brastias had good cheer and great gifts, as much as they might bear
away; and had their answer by mouth and by writing, that those two kings would come unto Arthur
in all the haste that they might. So the two knights rode on afore, and passed the sea, and
came to their lord, and told him how they had sped, whereof King Arthur was passing glad. At
what time suppose ye the two kings will be here? Sir, said they, afore All Hallowmass. Then
the king let purvey for a great feast, and let cry a great jousts. And by All Hallowmass the
two kings were come over the sea with three hundred knights well arrayed both for the peace
and for the war. While he was still in the midst of the conflict and hoped to influence it by
stating what he knew, he depicted the individual in relation to events. When the conflict
was over and he was at leisure to draw on his recollections, he made the individual to a greater
degree the representative of the type. But the distinction is not clearly marked, and Clarendon
may not have suspected it. His habitual detachment was assisted by his exile. The displeasure
of his ungrateful master, from whom he had never been separated during seventeen difficult years,
had proved the vanity of the little things of life. He looked at men from a distance that obscures
what is insignificant, and shows only the essential.

All his characters are clearly defined. We never confound them; we never have any doubt of
how he understood them. He sees men as a whole before he begins to describe them, and then his
only difficulty, as his manuscripts show, is to make his pen move fast enough. He does not build
up his characters. He does not, as many others do, start with the external features in the
hope of arriving at the central facts. He starts from the centre and works outwards. This is
the reason of the convincingness of his characters, their dramatic truth. The dramatic sense
in him is stronger than the pictorial.

He troubles little about personal appearance, or any of the traits which would enable us to visualize
his men. We understand them rather than see them. Hampden, he tells us, was'of a most civil
and affable deportment'and had'a flowing courtesy to all men', a'rare
temper and modesty'; it is Sir Philip Warwick who speaks of the'scurf
commonly on his face'. [14] He says that the younger Vane'had an unusual
aspect', and leaves us wondering what was unusual.

His Falkland is an exception, but he adopted a different scale when describing his greatest
friend and only hero. Each of his two accounts of Falkland is in fact a brief biography rather
than a character; the earliest of them, written shortly after Falkland's death, he once thought
of making into a volume by itself. In his characters proper he confines himself more strictly
than any other writer to matters of character. They are characters
rather than portraits.

But portraiture was one of his passions, though he left its practice to the painters. He adorned
his houses with the likenesses of his friends. It was fitting that our greatest character writer
should have formed one of the great collections of pictures of'wits, poets, philosophers, famous
and learned Englishmen'. [15] To describe them on paper, and to contrive that they should look
down on him from his walls, were different ways of indulging the same keen and tireless interest
in the life amid which he moved.

[Footnote 1: For a detailed examination of the composition and value of Clarendon's History see
the three articles by Professor C. H. Firth in The English Historical Review for 1904. No student
of Clarendon can ever afford to neglect them.] [Footnote 2: See No.
33, introductory note.] [Footnote 3: See No. 6, introductory note,
and No. 36, p. 140, II.

17-22 note.] [Footnote 4: Contractions have been expanded.

The punctuation of the original is slight, and it has been found
desirable occasionally to insert commas, where seventeenth century
printers would have inserted them; but the run of the sentences has
not been disturbed.

In modernized versions Clarendon's long sentences are sometimes needlessly subdivided.] [Footnote
5: State Papers, 1773, vol. ii, pp. 288-9.] [Footnote 6: Letter of March 16, 1647; infra p. 275.] [Footnote
7: Letter of January 8, 1647; T. H. Lister, Life of Clarendon, 1837, vol. iii, p. 43.] [Footnote
8: Ed.

1857, part 1,§ 85; omitted in the edition of 1759.] [Footnote 9:
Of the thirty-seven characters by Clarendon in this volume, twenty-seven
are from the'Manuscript Life'.] [Footnote 10: State Papers, 1786,
vol. iii, supp., p. xlv.] [Footnote 11: Clarendon's lifetime coincided
almost exactly with Milton's. He was two months younger than Milton,
and died one month later.] [Footnote 12: December 14, 1647; infra
p. 275.] [Footnote 13: Book ix, ad init.; ed.

Macray, vol. iv, p. 3.] [Footnote 14: See note, p. 129, ll.

22 ff.] [Footnote 15: Evelyn's Diary, December 20, 1668. See the account of'The Clarendon
Gallery'in Lady Theresa Lewis's Lives of the friends of Clarendon,
1852, vol. i, pp. 15* ff., and vol. iii, pp. 241 ff.] IV.

Other Character Writers.

When Clarendon's History was at last made public, no part of it was more frequently discussed,
or more highly praised, than its characters--'so just', said Evelyn,'and
tempered without the least ingredient of passion or tincture of revenge,
yet with such natural and lively touches as show his lordship well
knew not only the persons'outsides, but their very interiors.'[1]
About the same time, and probably as a consequence of the publication
of Clarendon's work, Bishop Burnet proceeded to put into its final
form the History on which he had been engaged since 1683.

He gave special attention to his characters, some of which he entirely
rewrote.

They at once invited comparison with Clarendon's, and first impressions, then as now, were not
in their favour.'His characters are miserably wrought,'said Swift.

[2] Burnet was in close touch with the political movements of his
time.'For above thirty years,'he wrote,'I have lived in such intimacy
with all who have had the chief conduct of affairs, and have been
so much trusted, and on so many important occasions employed by them,
that I have been able to penetrate far into the true secrets of counsels
and designs.'[3] He had a retentive memory, and a full share of worldly
wisdom.

But he was not an artist like Clarendon.

His style has none of the sustained dignity, the leisurely evolution,
which in Clarendon is so strangely at variance with the speed of
composition.

All is stated, nothing suggested. There is a succession of short sentences, each perfectly clear in
itself, often unlinked to what precedes or follows, and always without any of the finer shades
of meaning.

It is rough work, and on the face of it hasty, and so it would have
remained, no matter how often it had been revised.

Again, Burnet does not always have perfect control of the impression he wishes to convey. It is as
if he did not have the whole character in his mind before he began
to write, but collected his thoughts from the stores of his memory
in the process of composition. We are often uncertain how to understand a
character before we have read it all. In some cases he seems to be content
to present us with the material from which, once we have pieced it together
ourselves, we can form our own judgement. But what he tells us has
been vividly felt by him, and is vividly presented.

The great merit of his characters lies in their realism. Of the Earl of
Lauderdale he says that'He made a very ill appearance: He was very
big: His hair red, hanging oddly about him: His tongue was too big
for his mouth, which made him bedew all that he talked to.'There is
no hint of this in Clarendon's character of Lauderdale, nor could
Clarendon have spoken with the same directness.

Burnet has no circumlocutions, just as in private life he was not known to indulge in them. When
he reports what was said in conversation he gives the very words.

Lauderdale'was a man, as the Duke of Buckingham called him to me,
of a blundering understanding'.

Halifax'hoped that God would not lay it to his charge, if he could not digest iron, as an ostrich
did, nor take into his belief things that must burst him'. It is the directness and actuality
of such things as these, and above all his habit of describing men in relation to himself, that
make his best characters so vivid. Burnet is seldom in the background. He allows us to suspect that
it is not the man himself whom he presents to us but the man as he knew him, though he would not
have admitted the distinction.

He could not imitate the detachment of Clarendon, who is always deliberately impersonal, and writes
as if he were pronouncing the impartial judgement of history from which there can be no appeal. Burnet
views his men from a much nearer distance. His perspective may sometimes be at fault, but he gets the
detail. With all his shrewd observation, it must be admitted that his range of comprehension was limited.
There were no types of character too subtle for Clarendon to understand. There were some which
eluded Burnet's grasp. He is at his best in describing such a man as Lauderdale, where the roughness of
the style is in perfect keeping with the subject. His character of Shaftesbury, whom he says he
knew for many years in a very particular manner, is a valuable study and a remarkable companion piece
to Dryden's Achitophel. But he did not understand Halifax. The surface levity misled him. He
tells us unsuspectingly as much about himself as about Halifax. He tells us that the Trimmer could
never be quite serious in the good bishop's company. We learn more about Halifax from his own elaborate
study of Charles II. It is a prolonged analysis by a man of clear vision, and perfect balance
of judgement, and no prepossessions; who was, moreover, master of the easy pellucid style that
tends to maxim and epigram. A more impartial and convincing estimate of any king need never be
expected. In method and purpose, it stands by itself. It is indeed not so much a character in
the accepted sense of the word as a scientific investigation of a
personality.

Others try to make us see and understand their men; Halifax anatomizes. Yet he occasionally permits
us to discover his own feelings. Nothing disappointed him more in the merry monarch than the company
he kept, and his comprehensive taste in wit.'Of all men that ever liked those who had wit, he
could the best endure those who had none': there is more here than is on the surface; we see
at once Charles, and his court, and Halifax himself. As a class, the statesmen and politicians more
than hold their own with the other character writers of the seventeenth century. Shaftesbury's
picture of Henry Hastings, a country gentleman of the old school, who carried well into the Stuart
period the habits and life of Tudor times, shows a side of his varied accomplishments which
has not won the general recognition that it deserves. It is a sketch exactly in the style of the eighteenth century
essayists.

It makes us regret that the fragmentary autobiography in which it is found did not come down to a
time when it could have included sketches of his famous contemporaries. The literary skill of
his grandson, the author of the Characteristicks, was evidently inherited. Sir Philip Warwick has the
misfortune to be overshadowed by Clarendon. As secretary to Charles I in the year before his execution,
and as a minor government official under Charles II, he was well acquainted with men and affairs.
Burnet describes him as'an honest but a weak man', and adds that'though he pretended to wit
and politics, he was not cut out for that, and least of all for writing of history'. He could at least
write characters.

They do not bear the impress of a strong personality, but they have the fairmindedness and the calm
outlook that spring from a gentle and unassertive nature. His Cromwell and his Laud are alike
greatly to his credit; and the private view that he gives us of Charles has unmistakable value.
His Mémoires remained in manuscript till 1701, the year before the publication of Clarendon's History.
It was the first book to appear with notable characters of the men
of the Civil Wars and the Protectorate.

The Histories and Memoirs of the seventeenth century contain by far the greatest number of its characters;
but they are to be found also in scattered Lives, and in the collections of material that mark
the rise of modern English biography. There are disappointingly few by Fuller. In his Worthies of England
he is mainly concerned with the facts of a man's life, and though, in his own word, he fleshes
the bare skeleton of time, place, and person with pleasant passages, and interlaces many
delightful stories by way of illustrations, and everywhere holds
us by the quaint turns of his fertile fancy, yet the scheme of the
book did not involve the depicting of character, nor did it allow
him to deal with many contemporaries whom he had known.

In the present volume it has therefore been found best to represent him by the studies of Bacon and
Laud in his Church-History. Bacon he must have described largely from hearsay, but what he says
of Laud is an admirable specimen of his manner, and leaves us wishing that he had devoted himself
in larger measure to the worthies of his own time. There are no characters in Aubrey's Brief Lives,
which are only a series of rough jottings by a prince of gossips, who collected what he could and
put it all on paper'tumultuarily'. But the extracts from what he says of Hobbes and Milton may
be considered as notes for a character, details that awaited a greater artist than Aubrey was
to work them into a picture; and if Hobbes and Milton are to be given
a place, as somehow or other they must be, in a collection of the
kind that this volume offers, there is no option but to be content
with such notes, for there is no set character of either of them.

The value of the facts which Aubrey has preserved is shown by the use made of them by all subsequent
biographers, and notably by Anthony à Wood, whose Athenæ Oxonienses is our first great biographical
dictionary. Lives of English men of letters begin in the seventeenth century, and from Rawley's
Life of Bacon, Sprat's Life of Cowley, and the anonymous Life of Fuller it is possible to extract
passages which are in effect characters.

But Walton's Lives, the best of all seventeenth century Lives, refuse
to yield any section, for each of them is all of a piece; they are
from beginning to end continuous character studies, revealing qualities
of head and heart in their affectionate record of fact and circumstance.

There is therefore nothing in this volume from his Life of Donne or his Life of Herbert. As a
rule the characters that can be extracted from Lives are much inferior to the clearly defined
characters that are inserted in Histories. The focus is not the same. When an author after
dealing with a man's career sums up his mental and moral qualities
in a section by itself, he does not trust to it alone to convey the
total impression.

He is too liable also to panegyric, like Rawley, who could see no fault in his master Bacon, or
Sprat who, in Johnson's words, produced a funeral oration on Cowley. There are no characters of scholars
or poets so good as Clarendon's Hales, or Earle, or Chillingworth, or Waller; and for this reason,
that Clarendon envisages them, not as scholars or poets but as men, and gains a definite and complete
effect within small compass. Roger North made his life of his brother Lord Keeper Guilford an
account of the bench and bar under Charles II and James II. Of its many sketches of lawyers
whom he or his brother had known, none is so perfect in every way as the character of Chief
Justice Saunders, a remarkable man in real life who still lives in North's pages with all his
eccentricities. North writes at length about his brother, yet nowhere do we see and understand him so clearly
as we see and understand Saunders. The truth is that a life and a character have different objects and
methods and do not readily combine. It is only a small admixture of biography that a character will
endure.

And with the steady development of biography the character declined. A character must be short;
and it must be entire, the complete expression of a clear judgement. The perfect model is provided
by Clarendon. He has more than formal excellence. Braybrooke, 1825, vol. ii, p. 290.] [Footnote
2:'Short Remarks on Bishop Burnet's History,'ad init.] [Footnote 3: History, preface] [Footnote
4: Boswell, 1769, ed. G. B. Hill, vol. ii, p. 79.]***** Sooner or later every one who deals
with the history or literature of the seventeenth century has to own his obligations to Professor
C. H. Firth. My debt is not confined to his writings, references to which will be found continually
in the notes. At every stage of the preparation of this volume I
have had the advantage of his most generous interest. And with his name
it is a pleasure to associate in one compendious acknowledgement
the names of Dr. Henry Bradley and Mr. Percy Simpson.

Oxford, September 16, 1918. D. N. S. 1. JAMES I. James VI of Scotland 1567. James I 1603. Born 1566.
Died 1625. By ARTHUR WILSON. With that
came the King with the Hundred Knights and rescued King Carados mightily by force of arms,
for he was a passing good knight of a king, and but a young man.

CHAPTER XVI. Yet more of the same battle.

BY then came into the field King Ban as fierce as a lion, with bands of green and thereupon
gold. Ha! a! said King Lot, we must be discomfited, for yonder I see the most valiant knight
of the world, and the man of the most renown, for such two brethren as is King Ban and King
Bors are not living, wherefore we must needs void or die; and but if we avoid manly and wisely
there is but death. When King Ban came into the battle, he came in so fiercely that the strokes
redounded again from the wood and the water; wherefore King Lot wept for pity and dole that
he saw so many good knights take their end. But through the great force of King Ban they made
both the northern battles that were departed hurtled together for great dread; and the three
kings and their knights slew on ever, that it was pity on to behold that multitude of the people
that fled. But King Lot, and King of the Hundred Knights, and King Morganore gathered the people
together passing knightly, and did great prowess of arms, and held the battle all that day,
like hard.

When the King of the Hundred Knights beheld the great damage that King Ban did, he thrust unto
him with his horse, and smote him on high upon the helm, a great stroke, and astonied him sore.
Then King Ban was wroth with him, and followed on him fiercely; the other saw that, and cast
up his shield, and spurred his horse forward, but the stroke of King Ban fell down and carved
a cantel off the shield, and the sword slid down by the hauberk behind his back, and cut through
the trapping of steel and the horse even in two pieces, that the sword felt the earth. Then
the King of the Hundred Knights voided the horse lightly, and with his sword he broached the
horse of King Ban through and through. With that King Ban voided lightly from the dead horse,
and then King Ban smote at the other so eagerly, and smote him on the helm that he fell to
the earth. Also in that ire he felled King Morganore, and there was great slaughter of good
knights and much people. By then came into the press King Arthur, and found King Ban standing
among dead men and dead horses, fighting on foot as a wood lion, that there came none nigh
him, as far as he might reach with his sword, but he caught a grievous buffet; whereof King
Arthur had great pity. And Arthur was so bloody, that by his shield there might no man know
him, for all was blood and brains on his sword. And as Arthur looked by him he saw a knight
that was passingly well horsed, and therewith Sir Arthur ran to him, and smote him on the helm,
that his sword went unto his teeth, and the knight sank down to the earth dead, and anon Arthur
took the horse by the rein, and led him unto King Ban, and said, Fair brother, have this horse,
for he have great myster thereof, and me repenteth sore of your great damage. It shall be soon
revenged, said King Ban, for I trust in God mine ure is not such but some of them may sore
repent this. I will well, said Arthur, for I see your deeds full actual; nevertheless, I might
not come at you at that time.

But when King Ban was mounted on horseback, then there began new battle, the which was sore
and hard, and passing great slaughter. And so through great force King Arthur, King Ban, and
King Bors made their knights a little to withdraw them. But alway the eleven kings with their
chivalry never turned back; and so withdrew them to a little wood, and so over a little river,
and there they rested them, for on the night they might have no rest on the field. And then
the eleven kings and knights put them on a heap all together, as men adread and out of all
comfort. But there was no man might pass them, they held them so hard together both behind
and before, that King Arthur had marvel of their deeds of arms, and was passing wroth. Ah,
Sir Arthur, said King Ban and King Bors, blame them not, for they do as good men ought to do.
For by my faith, said King Ban, they are the best fighting men, and knights of most prowess,
that ever I saw or heard speak of, and those eleven kings are men of great worship; and if
they were longing unto you there were no king under the heaven had such eleven knights, and
of such worship. I may not love them, said Arthur, they would destroy me. That wot we well,
said King Ban and King Bors, for they are your mortal enemies, and that hath been proved aforehand;
and this day they have done their part, and that is great pity of their wilfulness.

Then all the eleven kings drew them together, and then said King Lot, Lords, ye must other
ways than ye do, or else the great loss is behind; ye may see what people we have lost, and
what good men we lose, because we wait always on these foot-men, and ever in saving of one
of the foot-men we lose ten horsemen for him; therefore this is mine advice, let us put our
foot-men from us, for it is near night, for the noble Arthur will not tarry on the footmen,
for they may save themselves, the wood is near hand. And when we horsemen be together, look
every each of you kings let make such ordinance that none break upon pain of death. And who
that seeth any man dress him to flee, lightly that he be slain, for it is better that we slay
a coward, than through a coward all we to be slain. How say ye? said King Lot, answer me all
ye kings. It is well said, quoth King Nentres; so said the King of the Hundred Knights; the
same said the King Carados, and King Uriens; so did King Idres and King Brandegoris; and so
did King Cradelment, and the Duke of Cambenet; the same said King Clariance and King Agwisance,
and sware they would never fail other, neither for life nor for death. And whoso that fled,
but did as they did, should be slain. Then they amended their harness, and righted their shields,
and took new spears and set them on their thighs, and stood still as it had been a plump of wood.

CHAPTER XVII. Yet more of the same battle, and how it was ended by Merlin.

WHEN Sir Arthur and King Ban and Bors beheld them and all their knights, they praised them
much for their noble cheer of chivalry, for the hardiest fighters that ever they heard or saw.
With that, there dressed them a forty noble knights, and said unto the three kings, they would
break their battle; these were their names: Lionses, Phariance, Ulfius, Brastias, Ector, Kay,
Lucas the butler, Griflet le Fise de Dieu, Mariet de la Roche, Guinas de Bloi, Briant de la
Forest Savage, Bellaus, Morians of the Castle [of] Maidens, Flannedrius of the Castle of Ladies,
Annecians that was King Bors' godson, a noble knight, Ladinas de la Rouse, Emerause, Caulas,
Graciens le Castlein, one Blois de la Case, and Sir Colgrevaunce de Gorre; all these knights
rode on afore with spears on their thighs, and spurred their horses mightily as the horses
might run. And the eleven kings with part of their knights rushed with their horses as fast
as they might with their spears, and there they did on both parties marvellous deeds of arms.
So came into the thick of the press, Arthur, Ban, and Bors, and slew down right on both hands,
that their horses went in blood up to the fetlocks. But ever the eleven kings and their host
was ever in the visage of Arthur. Wherefore Ban and Bors had great marvel, considering the
great slaughter that there was, but at the last they were driven aback over a little river.
With that came Merlin on a great black horse, and said unto Arthur, Thou hast never done! Hast
thou not done enough? of three score thousand this day hast thou left alive but fifteen thousand,
and it is time to say Ho! For God is wroth with thee, that thou wilt never have done; for yonder
eleven kings at this time will not be overthrown, but an thou tarry on them any longer, thy
fortune will turn and they shall increase. And therefore withdraw you unto your lodging, and
rest you as soon as ye may, and reward your good knights with gold and with silver, for they
have well deserved it; there may no riches be too dear for them, for of so few men as ye have,
there were never men did more of prowess than they have done today, for ye have matched this
day with the best fighters of the world. That is truth, said King Ban and Bors. Also said Merlin,
withdraw you where ye list, for this three year I dare undertake they shall not dere you; and
by then ye shall hear new tidings. And then Merlin said unto Arthur, These eleven kings have
more on hand than they are ware of, for the Saracens are landed in their countries, more than
forty thousand, that burn and slay, and have laid siege at the castle Wandesborow, and make
great destruction; therefore dread you not this three year. Also, sir, all the goods that be
gotten at this battle, let it be searched, and when ye have it in your hands, let it be given
freely unto these two kings, Ban and Bors, that they may reward their knights withal; and that
shall cause strangers to be of better will to do you service at need. Also you be able to reward
your own knights of your own goods whensomever it liketh you. It is well said, quoth Arthur,
and as thou hast devised, so shall it be done. When it was delivered to Ban and Bors, they
gave the goods as freely to their knights as freely as it was given to them. Then Merlin took
his leave of Arthur and of the two kings, for to go and see his master Bleise, that dwelt in
Northumberland; and so he departed and came to his master, that was passing glad of his coming;
and there he told how Arthur and the two kings had sped at the great battle, and how it was
ended, and told the names of every king and knight of worship that was there. And so Bleise
wrote the battle word by word, as Merlin told him, how it began, and by whom, and in likewise
how it was ended, and who had the worse. All the battles that were done in Arthur's days Merlin
did his master Bleise do write; also he did do write all the battles that every worthy knight
did of Arthur's court.

After this Merlin departed from his master and came to King Arthur, that was in the castle
of Bedegraine, that was one of the castles that stand in the forest of Sherwood. And Merlin
was so disguised that King Arthur knew him not, for he was all befurred in black sheep-skins,
and a great pair of boots, and a bow and arrows, in a russet gown, and brought wild geese in
his hand, and it was on the morn after Candlemas day; but King Arthur knew him not. Sir, said
Merlin unto the king, will ye give me a gift? Wherefore, said King Arthur, should I give thee
a gift, churl? Sir, said Merlin, ye were better to give me a gift that is not in your hand
than to lose great riches, for here in the same place where the great battle was, is great
treasure hid in the earth. Who told thee so, churl? said Arthur. Merlin told me so, said he.
Then Ulfius and Brastias knew him well enough, and smiled. Sir, said these two knights, it
is Merlin that so speaketh unto you. Then King Arthur was greatly abashed, and had marvel of
Merlin, and so had King Ban and King Bors, and so they had great disport at him. So in the
meanwhile there came a damosel that was an earl's daughter: his name was Sanam, and her name
was Lionors, a passing fair damosel; and so she came thither for to do homage, as other lords
did after the great battle. And King Arthur set his love greatly upon her, and so did she upon
him, and the king had ado with her, and gat on her a child: his name was Borre, that was after
a good knight, and of the Table Round. Then there came word that the King Rience of North Wales
made great war on King Leodegrance of Cameliard, for the which thing Arthur was wroth, for
he loved him well, and hated King Rience, for he was alway against him. So by ordinance of
the three kings that were sent home unto Benwick, all they would depart for dread of King Claudas;
and Phariance, and Antemes, and Gratian, and Lionses [of] Payarne, with the leaders of those
that should keep the kings' lands.

AND then King Arthur, and King Ban, and King Bors departed with their fellowship, a twenty
thousand, and came within six days into the country of Cameliard, and there rescued King Leodegrance,
and slew there much people of King Rience, unto the number of ten thousand men, and put him
to flight. And then had these three kings great cheer of King Leodegrance, that thanked them
of their great goodness, that they would revenge him of his enemies; and there had Arthur the
first sight of Guenever, the king's daughter of Cameliard, and ever after he loved her. After
they were wedded, as it telleth in the book. So, briefly to make an end, they took their leave
to go into their own countries, for King Claudas did great destruction on their lands. Then
said Arthur, I will go with you. Nay, said the kings, ye shall not at this time, for ye have
much to do yet in these lands, therefore we will depart, and with the great goods that we have
gotten in these lands by your gifts, we shall wage good knights and withstand the King Claudas'
malice, for by the grace of God, an we have need we will send to you for your succour; and
if ye have need, send for us, and we will not tarry, by the faith of our bodies. It shall not,
said Merlin, need that these two kings come again in the way of war, but I know well King Arthur
may not be long from you, for within a year or two ye shall have great need, and then shall
he revenge you on your enemies, as ye have done on his. For these eleven kings shall die all
in a day, by the great might and prowess of arms of two valiant knights (as it telleth after);
their names be Balin le Savage, and Balan, his brother, that be marvellous good knights as
be any living.

Now turn we to the eleven kings that returned unto a city that hight Sorhaute, the which city
was within King Uriens', and there they refreshed them as well as they might, and made leeches
search their wounds, and sorrowed greatly for the death of their people. With that there came
a messenger and told how there was come into their lands people that were lawless as well as
Saracens, a forty thousand, and have burnt and slain all the people that they may come by,
without mercy, and have laid siege on the castle of Wandesborow. Alas, said the eleven kings,
here is sorrow upon sorrow, and if we had not warred against Arthur as we have done, he would
soon revenge us. As for King Leodegrance, he loveth Arthur better than us, and as for King
Rience, he hath enough to do with Leodegrance, for he hath laid siege unto him. So they consented
together to keep all the marches of Cornwall, of Wales, and of the North. So first, they put
King Idres in the City of Nauntes in Britain, with four thousand men of arms, to watch both
the water and the land. Also they put in the city of Windesan, King Nentres of Garlot, with
four thousand knights to watch both on water and on land. Also they had of other men of war
more than eight thousand, for to fortify all the fortresses in the marches of Cornwall. Also
they put more knights in all the marches of Wales and Scotland, with many good men of arms,
and so they kept them together the space of three year, and ever allied them with mighty kings
and dukes and lords. And to them fell King Rience of North Wales, the which and Nero that was
a mighty man of men. And all this while they furnished them and garnished them of good men
of arms, and victual, and of all manner of habiliment that pretendeth to the war, to avenge
them for the battle of Bedegraine, as it telleth in the book of adventures following.

THEN after the departing of King Ban and of King Bors, King Arthur rode into Carlion. And thither
came to him, King Lot's wife, of Orkney, in manner of a message, but she was sent thither to
espy the court of King Arthur; and she came richly beseen, with her four sons, Gawaine, Gaheris,
Agravine, and Gareth, with many other knights and ladies. For she was a passing fair lady,
therefore the king cast great love unto her, and desired to lie by her; so they were agreed,
and he begat upon her Mordred, and she was his sister, on his mother's side, Igraine. So there
she rested her a month, and at the last departed. Then the king dreamed a marvellous dream
whereof he was sore adread. But all this time King Arthur knew not that King Lot's wife was
his sister. Thus was the dream of Arthur: Him thought there was come into this land griffins
and serpents, and him thought they burnt and slew all the people in the land, and then him
thought he fought with them, and they did him passing great harm, and wounded him full sore,
but at the last he slew them. When the king awaked, he was passing heavy of his dream, and
so to put it out of thoughts, he made him ready with many knights to ride a-hunting. As soon
as he was in the forest the king saw a great hart afore him. This hart will I chase, said King
Arthur, and so he spurred the horse, and rode after long, and so by fine force oft he was like
to have smitten the hart; whereas the king had chased the hart so long, that his horse lost
his breath, and fell down dead. Then a yeoman fetched the king another horse.

So the king saw the hart enbushed, and his horse dead, he set him down by a fountain, and there
he fell in great thoughts. And as he sat so, him thought he heard a noise of hounds, to the
sum of thirty. And with that the king saw coming toward him the strangest beast that ever he
saw or heard of; so the beast went to the well and drank, and the noise was in the beast's
belly like unto the questing of thirty couple hounds; but all the while the beast drank there
was no noise in the beast's belly: and there with the beast departed with a great noise, whereof
the king had great marvel. And so he was in a great thought, and therewith he fell asleep.
Right so there came a knight afoot unto Arthur and said, Knight full of thought and sleepy,
tell me if thou sawest a strange beast pass this way. Such one saw I, said King Arthur, that
is past two mile; what would ye with the beast? said Arthur. Sir, I have followed that beast
long time, and killed mine horse, so would God I had another to follow my quest. Right so came
one with the king's horse, and when the knight saw the horse, he prayed the king to give him
the horse: for I have followed this quest this twelvemonth, and either I shall achieve him,
or bleed of the best blood of my body. Pellinore, that time king, followed the Questing Beast,
and after his death Sir Palamides followed it.

SIR knight, said the king, leave that quest, and suffer me to have it, and I will follow it
another twelvemonth. Ah, fool, said the knight unto Arthur, it is in vain thy desire, for it
shall never be achieved but by me, or my next kin. Therewith he started unto the king's horse
and mounted into the saddle, and said, Gramercy, this horse is my own. Well, said the king,
thou mayst take my horse by force, but an I might prove thee whether thou were better on horseback
or I.--Well, said the knight, seek me here when thou wilt, and here nigh this well thou shalt
find me, and so passed on his way. Then the king sat in a study, and bade his men fetch his
horse as fast as ever they might. Right so came by him Merlin like a child of fourteen year
of age, and saluted the king, and asked him why he was so pensive. I may well be pensive, said
the king, for I have seen the marvellest sight that ever I saw. That know I well, said Merlin,
as well as thyself, and of all thy thoughts, but thou art but a fool to take thought, for it
will not amend thee. Also I know what thou art, and who was thy father, and of whom thou wert
begotten; King Uther Pendragon was thy father, and begat thee on Igraine. That is false, said
King Arthur, how shouldest thou know it, for thou art not so old of years to know my father?
Yes, said Merlin, I know it better than ye or any man living. I will not believe thee, said
Arthur, and was wroth with the child. So departed Merlin, and came again in the likeness of
an old man of fourscore year of age, whereof the king was right glad, for he seemed to be right
wise.

Then said the old man, Why are ye so sad? I may well be heavy, said Arthur, for many things.
Also here was a child, and told me many things that meseemeth he should not know, for he was
not of age to know my father. Yes, said the old man, the child told you truth, and more would
he have told you an ye would have suffered him. But ye have done a thing late that God is displeased
with you, for ye have lain by your sister, and on her ye have gotten a child that shall destroy
you and all the knights of your realm. What are ye, said Arthur, that tell me these tidings?
I am Merlin, and I was he in the child's likeness. Ah, said King Arthur, ye are a marvellous
man, but I marvel much of thy words that I must die in battle. Marvel not, said Merlin, for
it is God's will your body to be punished for your foul deeds; but I may well be sorry, said
Merlin, for I shall die a shameful death, to be put in the earth quick, and ye shall die a
worshipful death. And as they talked this, came one with the king's horse, and so the king
mounted on his horse, and Merlin on another, and so rode unto Carlion. And anon the king asked
Ector and Ulfius how he was begotten, and they told him Uther Pendragon was his father and
Queen Igraine his mother. Then he said to Merlin, I will that my mother be sent for that I
may speak with her; and if she say so herself then will I believe it. In all haste, the queen
was sent for, and she came and brought with her Morgan le Fay, her daughter, that was as fair
a lady as any might be, and the king welcomed Igraine in the best manner.

RIGHT SO came Ulfius, and said openly, that the king and all might hear that were feasted that
day, Ye are the falsest lady of the world, and the most traitress unto the king's person. Beware,
said Arthur, what thou sayest; thou speakest a great word. I am well ware, said Ulfius, what
I speak, and here is my glove to prove it upon any man that will say the contrary, that this
Queen Igraine is causer of your great damage, and of your great war. For, an she would have
uttered it in the life of King Uther Pendragon, of the birth of you, and how ye were begotten
ye had never had the mortal wars that ye have had; for the most part of your barons of your
realm knew never whose son ye were, nor of whom ye were begotten; and she that bare you of
her body should have made it known openly in excusing of her worship and yours, and in like
wise to all the realm, wherefore I prove her false to God and to you and to all your realm,
and who will say the contrary I will prove it on his body.

Then spake Igraine and said, I am a woman and I may not fight, but rather than I should be
dishonoured, there would some good man take my quarrel. More, she said, Merlin knoweth well,
and ye Sir Ulfius, how King Uther came to me in the Castle of Tintagil in the likeness of my
lord, that was dead three hours to-fore, and thereby gat a child that night upon me. And after
the thirteenth day King Uther wedded me, and by his commandment when the child was born it
was delivered unto Merlin and nourished by him, and so I saw the child never after, nor wot
not what is his name, for I knew him never yet. And there, Ulfius said to the queen, Merlin
is more to blame than ye. Well I wot, said the queen, I bare a child by my lord King Uther,
but I wot not where he is become. Then Merlin took the king by the hand, saying, This is your
mother. And therewith Sir Ector bare witness how he nourished him by Uther's commandment. And
therewith King Arthur took his mother, Queen Igraine, in his arms and kissed her, and either
wept upon other. And then the king let make a feast that lasted eight days.

Then on a day there came in the court a squire on horseback, leading a knight before him wounded
to the death, and told him how there was a knight in the forest had reared up a pavilion by
a well, and hath slain my master, a good knight, his name was Miles; wherefore I beseech you
that my master may be buried, and that some knight may revenge my master's death. Then the
noise was great of that knight's death in the court, and every man said his advice. Then came
Griflet that was but a squire, and he was but young, of the age of the king Arthur, so he besought
the king for all his service that he had done him to give the order of knighthood.

CHAPTER XXII. How Griflet was made knight, and jousted with a knight

THOU art full young and tender of age, said Arthur, for to take so high an order on thee. Sir,
said Griflet, I beseech you make me knight. Sir, said Merlin, it were great pity to lose Griflet,
for he will be a passing good man when he is of age, abiding with you the term of his life.
And if he adventure his body with yonder knight at the fountain, it is in great peril if ever
he come again, for he is one of the best knights of the world, and the strongest man of arms.
Well, said Arthur. So at the desire of Griflet the king made him knight. Now, said Arthur unto
Sir Griflet, sith I have made you knight thou must give me a gift. What ye will, said Griflet.
Thou shalt promise me by the faith of thy body, when thou hast jousted with the knight at the
fountain, whether it fall ye be on foot or on horseback, that right so ye shall come again
unto me without making any more debate. I will promise you, said Griflet, as you desire. Then
took Griflet his horse in great haste, and dressed his shield and took a spear in his hand,
and so he rode a great wallop till he came to the fountain, and thereby he saw a rich pavilion,
and thereby under a cloth stood a fair horse well saddled and bridled, and on a tree a shield
of divers colours and a great spear. That is me loath, said the knight, but sith I must needs,
I will dress me thereto. Of whence be ye? said the knight. Sir, I am of Arthur's court. So
the two knights ran together that Griflet's spear all to-shivered; and there withal he smote
Griflet through the shield and the left side, and brake the spear that the truncheon stuck
in his body, that horse and knight fell down.

WHEN the knight saw him lie so on the ground, he alighted, and was passing heavy, for he weened
he had slain him, and then he unlaced his helm and gat him wind, and so with the truncheon
he set him on his horse, and so betook him to God, and said he had a mighty heart, and if he
might live he would prove a passing good knight. And so Sir Griflet rode to the court, where
great dole was made for him. But through good leeches he was healed and saved. Right so came
into the court twelve knights, and were aged men, and they came from the Emperor of Rome, and
they asked of Arthur truage for this realm, other else the emperor would destroy him and his
land. Well, said King Arthur, ye are messengers, therefore ye may say what ye will, other else
ye should die therefore. But this is mine answer: I owe the emperor no truage, nor none will
I hold him, but on a fair field I shall give him my truage that shall be with a sharp spear,
or else with a sharp sword, and that shall not be long, by my father's soul, Uther Pendragon.
And therewith the messengers departed passingly wroth, and King Arthur as wroth, for in evil
time came they then; for the king was passingly wroth for the hurt of Sir Griflet. And so he
commanded a privy man of his chamber that or it be day his best horse and armour, with all
that longeth unto his person, be without the city or to-morrow day. Right so or to-morrow day
he met with his man and his horse, and so mounted up and dressed his shield and took his spear,
and bade his chamberlain tarry there till he came again.

So as they went thus talking they came to the fountain, and the rich pavilion there by it.
Then King Arthur was ware where sat a knight armed in a chair. Sir knight, said Arthur, for
what cause abidest thou here, that there may no knight ride this way but if he joust with thee?
said the king. I rede thee leave that custom, said Arthur. This custom, said the knight, have
I used and will use maugre who saith nay, and who is grieved with my custom let him amend it
that will. I will amend it, said Arthur. I shall defend thee, said the knight. Anon he took
his horse and dressed his shield and took a spear, and they met so hard either in other's shields,
that all to-shivered their spears. Therewith anon Arthur pulled out his sword. Nay, not so,
said the knight; it is fairer, said the knight, that we twain run more together with sharp
spears. I will well, said Arthur, an I had any more spears. I have enow, said the knight; so
there came a squire and brought two good spears, and Arthur chose one and he another; so they
spurred their horses and came together with all their mights, that either brake their spears
to their hands. Then Arthur set hand on his sword. Nay, said the knight, ye shall do better,
ye are a passing good jouster as ever I met withal, and once for the love of the high order
of knighthood let us joust once again. I assent me, said Arthur. Anon there were brought two
great spears, and every knight gat a spear, and therewith they ran together that Arthur's spear
all to-shivered. But the other knight hit him so hard in midst of the shield, that horse and
man fell to the earth, and therewith Arthur was eager, and pulled out his sword, and said,
I will assay thee, sir knight, on foot, for I have lost the honour on horseback. I will be
on horseback, said the knight. Then was Arthur wroth, and dressed his shield toward him with
his sword drawn. When the knight saw that, he alighted, for him thought no worship to have
a knight at such avail, he to be on horseback and he on foot, and so he alighted and dressed
his shield unto Arthur. And there began a strong battle with many great strokes, and so hewed
with their swords that the cantels flew in the fields, and much blood they bled both, that
all the place there as they fought was overbled with blood, and thus they fought long and rested
them, and then they went to the battle again, and so hurtled together like two rams that either
fell to the earth. So at the last they smote together that both their swords met even together.
But the sword of the knight smote King Arthur's sword in two pieces, wherefore he was heavy.
And therewithal the king leapt unto Pellinore, and took him by the middle and threw him down,
and raced off his helm. When the knight felt that he was adread, for he was a passing big man
of might, and anon he brought Arthur under him, and raced off his helm and would have smitten
off his head.

THEREWITHAL came Merlin and said, Knight, hold thy hand, for an thou slay that knight thou
puttest this realm in the greatest damage that ever was realm: for this knight is a man of
more worship than thou wotest of. Why, who is he? said the knight. It is King Arthur. There
liveth not so worshipful a knight as he was; I had liefer than the stint of my land a year
that he were alive. Care ye not, said Merlin, for he is wholer than ye; for he is but asleep,
and will awake within three hours. I told you, said Merlin, what a knight he was; here had
ye been slain had I not been. Also there liveth not a bigger knight than he is one, and he
shall hereafter do you right good service; and his name is Pellinore, and he shall have two
sons that shall be passing good men; save one they shall have no fellow of prowess and of good
living, and their names shall be Percivale of Wales and Lamerake of Wales, and he shall tell
you the name of your own son, begotten of your sister, that shall be the destruction of all
this realm. With that they saw a damosel going upon the lake. What damosel is that? said Arthur.
That is the Lady of the Lake, said Merlin; and within that lake is a rock, and therein is as
fair a place as any on earth, and richly beseen; and this damosel will come to you anon, and
then speak ye fair to her that she will give you that sword. Anon withal came the damosel unto
Arthur, and saluted him, and he her again. Damosel, said Arthur, what sword is that, that yonder
the arm holdeth above the water? I would it were mine, for I have no sword. Sir Arthur, king,
said the damosel, that sword is mine, and if ye will give me a gift when I ask it you, ye shall
have it. By my faith, said Arthur, I will give you what gift ye will ask. Well! said the damosel,
go ye into yonder barge, and row yourself to the sword, and take it and the scabbard with you,
and I will ask my gift when I see my time. So Sir Arthur and Merlin alighted and tied their
horses to two trees, and so they went into the ship, and when they came to the sword that the
hand held, Sir Arthur took it up by the handles, and took it with him, and the arm and the
hand went under the water. And so [they] came unto the land and rode forth, and then Sir Arthur
saw a rich pavilion. What signifieth yonder pavilion? It is the knight's pavilion, said Merlin,
that ye fought with last, Sir Pellinore; but he is out, he is not there. He hath ado with a
knight of yours that hight Egglame, and they have foughten together, but at the last Egglame
fled, and else he had been dead, and he hath chased him even to Carlion, and we shall meet
with him anon in the highway. That is well said, said Arthur, now have I a sword, now will
I wage battle with him, and be avenged on him. Sir, you shall not so, said Merlin, for the
knight is weary of fighting and chasing, so that ye shall have no worship to have ado with
him; also he will not be lightly matched of one knight living, and therefore it is my counsel,
let him pass, for he shall do you good service in short time, and his sons after his days.
Also ye shall see that day in short space, you shall be right glad to give him your sister
to wed. When I see him, I will do as ye advise, said Arthur.

Then Sir Arthur looked on the sword, and liked it passing well. Whether liketh you better,
said Merlin, the sword or the scabbard? Me liketh better the sword, said Arthur. Ye are more
unwise, said Merlin, for the scabbard is worth ten of the swords, for whiles ye have the scabbard
upon you, ye shall never lose no blood, be ye never so sore wounded; therefore keep well the
scabbard always with you. So they rode unto Carlion, and by the way they met with Sir Pellinore;
but Merlin had done such a craft, that Pellinore saw not Arthur, and he passed by without any
words. I marvel, said Arthur, that the knight would not speak. Sir, said Merlin, he saw you
not, for an he had seen you, ye had not lightly departed.

THIS meanwhile came a messenger from King Rience of North Wales, and king he was of all Ireland,
and of many isles. And this was his message, greeting well King Arthur in this manner wise,
saying that King Rience had discomfited and overcome eleven kings, and everych of them did
him homage, and that was this, they gave him their beards clean flayed off, as much as there
was; wherefore the messenger came for King Arthur's beard. For King Rience had purfled a mantle
with kings' beards, and there lacked one place of the mantle; wherefore he sent for his beard,
or else he would enter into his lands, and burn and slay, and never leave till he have the
head and the beard. Well, said Arthur, thou hast said thy message, the which is the most villainous
and lewdest message that ever man heard sent unto a king; also thou mayest see my beard is
full young yet to make a purfle of it. But tell thou thy king this: I owe him none homage,
nor none of mine elders; but or it be long to, he shall do me homage on both his knees, or
else he shall lose his head, by the faith of my body, for this is the most shamefulest message
that ever I heard speak of. I have espied thy king met never yet with worshipful man, but tell
him, I will have his head without he do me homage. Then the messenger departed.

Now is there any here, said Arthur, that knoweth King Rience? Then answered a knight that hight
Naram, Sir, I know the king well; he is a passing good man of his body, as few be living, and
a passing proud man, and Sir, doubt ye not he will make war on you with a mighty puissance.
Well, said Arthur, I shall ordain for him in short time.

CHAPTER XXVII. How all the children were sent for that were born on May-day, and how Mordred
was saved.

THEN King Arthur let send for all the children born on May-day, begotten of lords and born
of ladies; for Merlin told King Arthur that he that should destroy him should be born on May-day,
wherefore he sent for them all, upon pain of death; and so there were found many lords' sons,
and all were sent unto the king, and so was Mordred sent by King Lot's wife, and all were put
in a ship to the sea, and some were four weeks old, and some less. And so by fortune the ship
drave unto a castle, and was all to-riven, and destroyed the most part, save that Mordred was
cast up, and a good man found him, and nourished him till he was fourteen year old, and then
he brought him to the court, as it rehearseth afterward, toward the end of the Death of Arthur.
So many lords and barons of this realm were displeased, for their children were so lost, and
many put the wite on Merlin more than on Arthur; so what for dread and for love, they held
their peace. But when the messenger came to King Rience, then was he wood out of measure, and
purveyed him for a great host, as it rehearseth after in the book of Balin le Savage, that
followeth next after, how by adventure Balin gat the sword.

Explicit liber primus.

AFTER the death of Uther Pendragon reigned Arthur his son, the which had great war in his days
for to get all England into his hand. For there were many kings within the realm of England,
and in Wales, Scotland, and Cornwall. So it befell on a time when King Arthur was at London,
there came a knight and told the king tidings how that the King Rience of North Wales had reared
a great number of people, and were entered into the land, and burnt and slew the king's true
liege people. If this be true, said Arthur, it were great shame unto mine estate but that he
were mightily withstood. It is truth, said the knight, for I saw the host myself. Well, said
the king, let make a cry, that all the lords, knights, and gentlemen of arms, should draw unto
a castle called Camelot in those days, and there the king would let make a council-general
and a great jousts.

So when the king was come thither with all his baronage, and lodged as they seemed best, there
was come a damosel the which was sent on message from the great lady Lile of Avelion. And when
she came before King Arthur, she told from whom she came, and how she was sent on message unto
him for these causes. Then she let her mantle fall that was richly furred; and then was she
girt with a noble sword whereof the king had marvel, and said, Damosel, for what cause are
ye girt with that sword? it beseemeth you not. Now shall I tell you, said the damosel; this
sword that I am girt withal doth me great sorrow and cumbrance, for I may not be delivered
of this sword but by a knight, but he must be a passing good man of his hands and of his deeds,
and without villainy or treachery, and without treason. And if I may find such a knight that
hath all these virtues, he may draw out this sword out of the sheath, for I have been at King
Rience's it was told me there were passing good knights, and he and all his knights have assayed
it and none can speed. This is a great marvel, said Arthur, if this be sooth; I will myself
assay to draw out the sword, not presuming upon myself that I am the best knight, but that
I will begin to draw at your sword in giving example to all the barons that they shall assay
everych one after other when I have assayed it. Then Arthur took the sword by the sheath and
by the girdle and pulled at it eagerly, but the sword would not out.

Sir, said the damosel, you need not to pull half so hard, for he that shall pull it out shall
do it with little might. Ye say well, said Arthur; now assay ye all my barons; but beware ye
be not defiled with shame, treachery, nor guile. Then it will not avail, said the damosel,
for he must be a clean knight without villainy, and of a gentle strain of father side and mother
side. Most of all the barons of the Round Table that were there at that time assayed all by
row, but there might none speed; wherefore the damosel made great sorrow out of measure, and
said, Alas! I weened in this court had been the best knights without treachery or treason.
By my faith, said Arthur, here are good knights, as I deem, as any be in the world, but their
grace is not to help you, wherefore I am displeased.

THEN fell it so that time there was a poor knight with King Arthur, that had been prisoner
with him half a year and more for slaying of a knight, the which was cousin unto King Arthur.
The name of this knight was called Balin, and by good means of the barons he was delivered
out of prison, for he was a good man named of his body, and he was born in Northumberland.
And so he went privily into the court, and saw this adventure, whereof it raised his heart,
and he would assay it as other knights did, but for he was poor and poorly arrayed he put him
not far in press. But in his heart he was fully assured to do as well, if his grace happed
him, as any knight that there was. And as the damosel took her leave of Arthur and of all the
barons, so departing, this knight Balin called unto her, and said, Damosel, I pray you of your
courtesy, suffer me as well to assay as these lords; though that I be so poorly clothed, in
my heart meseemeth I am fully assured as some of these others, and meseemeth in my heart to
speed right well. The damosel beheld the poor knight, and saw he was a likely man, but for
his poor arrayment she thought he should be of no worship without villainy or treachery. And
then she said unto the knight, Sir, it needeth not to put me to more pain or labour, for it
seemeth not you to speed there as other have failed. Ah! fair damosel, said Balin, worthiness,
and good tatches, and good deeds, are not only in arrayment, but manhood and worship is hid
within man's person, and many a worshipful knight is not known unto all people, and therefore
worship and hardiness is not in arrayment. By God, said the damosel, ye say sooth; therefore
ye shall assay to do what ye may. Then Balin took the sword by the girdle and sheath, and drew
it out easily; and when he looked on the sword it pleased him much. Then had the king and all
the barons great marvel that Balin had done that adventure, and many knights had great despite
of Balin. Certes, said the damosel, this is a passing good knight, and the best that ever I
found, and most of worship without treason, treachery, or villainy, and many marvels shall
he do. Now, gentle and courteous knight, give me the sword again. Nay, said Balin, for this
sword will I keep, but it be taken from me with force. Well, said the damosel, ye are not wise
to keep the sword from me, for ye shall slay with the sword the best friend that ye have, and
the man that ye most love in the world, and the sword shall be your destruction. I shall take
the adventure, said Balin, that God will ordain me, but the sword ye shall not have at this
time, by the faith of my body. Ye shall repent it within short time, said the damosel, for
I would have the sword more for your avail than for mine, for I am passing heavy for your sake;
for ye will not believe that sword shall be your destruction, and that is great pity. With
that the damosel departed, making great sorrow.

Anon after, Balin sent for his horse and armour, and so would depart from the court, and took
his leave of King Arthur. Nay, said the king, I suppose ye will not depart so lightly from
this fellowship, I suppose ye are displeased that I have shewed you unkindness; blame me the
less, for I was misinformed against you, but I weened ye had not been such a knight as ye are,
of worship and prowess, and if ye will abide in this court among my fellowship, I shall so
advance you as ye shall be pleased. God thank your highness, said Balin, your bounty and highness
may no man praise half to the value; but at this time I must needs depart, beseeching you alway
of your good grace. Truly, said the king, I am right wroth for your departing; I pray you,
fair knight, that ye tarry not long, and ye shall be right welcome to me, and to my barons,
and I shall amend all miss that I have done against you; God thank your great lordship, said
Balin, and therewith made him ready to depart. Then the most part of the knights of the Round
Table said that Balin did not this adventure all only by might, but by witchcraft.

THE meanwhile, that this knight was making him ready to depart, there came into the court a
lady that hight the Lady of the Lake. And she came on horseback, richly beseen, and saluted
King Arthur, and there asked him a gift that he promised her when she gave him the sword. That
is sooth, said Arthur, a gift I promised you, but I have forgotten the name of my sword that
ye gave me. The name of it, said the lady, is Excalibur, that is as much to say as Cut-steel.
Ye say well, said the king; ask what ye will and ye shall have it, an it lie in my power to
give it. Well, said the lady, I ask the head of the knight that hath won the sword, or else
the damosel's head that brought it; I take no force though I have both their heads, for he
slew my brother, a good knight and a true, and that gentlewoman was causer of my father's death.
Truly, said King Arthur, I may not grant neither of their heads with my worship, therefore
ask what ye will else, and I shall fulfil your desire. I will ask none other thing, said the
lady. When Balin was ready to depart, he saw the Lady of the Lake, that by her means had slain
Balin's mother, and he had sought her three years; and when it was told him that she asked
his head of King Arthur, he went to her straight and said, Evil be you found; ye would have
my head, and therefore ye shall lose yours, and with his sword lightly he smote off her head
before King Arthur. Sir, said Balin, me forthinketh of your displeasure, for this same lady
was the untruest lady living, and by enchantment and sorcery she hath been the destroyer of
many good knights, and she was causer that my mother was burnt, through her falsehood and treachery.
What cause soever ye had, said Arthur, ye should have forborne her in my presence; therefore,
think not the contrary, ye shall repent it, for such another despite had I never in my court;
therefore withdraw you out of my court in all haste ye may.

Then Balin took up the head of the lady, and bare it with him to his hostelry, and there he
met with his squire, that was sorry he had displeased King Arthur and so they rode forth out
of the town. Now, said Balin, we must depart, take thou this head and bear it to my friends,
and tell them how I have sped, and tell my friends in Northumberland that my most foe is dead.
Also tell them how I am out of prison, and what adventure befell me at the getting of this
sword. Alas! said the squire, ye are greatly to blame for to displease King Arthur. As for
that, said Balin, I will hie me, in all the haste that I may, to meet with King Rience and
destroy him, either else to die therefore; and if it may hap me to win him, then will King
Arthur be my good and gracious lord. Where shall I meet with you? said the squire. In King
Arthur's court, said Balin. So his squire and he departed at that time. Then King Arthur and
all the court made great dole and had shame of the death of the Lady of the Lake. Then the
king buried her richly.

CHAPTER IV. How Merlin told the adventure of this damosel.

AT that time there was a knight, the which was the king's son of Ireland, and his name was
Lanceor, the which was an orgulous knight, and counted himself one of the best of the court;
and he had great despite at Balin for the achieving of the sword, that any should be accounted
more hardy, or more of prowess; and he asked King Arthur if he would give him leave to ride
after Balin and to revenge the despite that he had done. Do your best, said Arthur, I am right
wroth with Balin; I would he were quit of the despite that he hath done to me and to my court.
Then this Lanceor went to his hostelry to make him ready. In the meanwhile came Merlin unto
the court of King Arthur, and there was told him the adventure of the sword, and the death
of the Lady of the Lake. Now shall I say you, said Merlin; this same damosel that here standeth,
that brought the sword unto your court, I shall tell you the cause of her coming: she was the
falsest damosel that liveth. Say not so, said they. She hath a brother, a passing good knight
of prowess and a full true man; and this damosel loved another knight that held her to paramour,
and this good knight her brother met with the knight that held her to paramour, and slew him
by force of his hands. When this false damosel understood this, she went to the Lady Lile of
Avelion, and besought her of help, to be avenged on her own brother.

AND so this Lady Lile of Avelion took her this sword that she brought with her, and told there
should no man pull it out of the sheath but if he be one of the best knights of this realm,
and he should be hard and full of prowess, and with that sword he should slay her brother.
This was the cause that the damosel came into this court. I know it as well as ye. Would God
she had not come into this court, but she came never in fellowship of worship to do good, but
always great harm; and that knight that hath achieved the sword shall be destroyed by that
sword, for the which will be great damage, for there liveth not a knight of more prowess than
he is, and he shall do unto you, my Lord Arthur, great honour and kindness; and it is great
pity he shall not endure but a while, for of his strength and hardiness I know not his match
living.

So the knight of Ireland armed him at all points, and dressed his shield on his shoulder, and
mounted upon horseback, and took his spear in his hand, and rode after a great pace, as much
as his horse might go; and within a little space on a mountain he had a sight of Balin, and
with a loud voice he cried, Abide, knight, for ye shall abide whether ye will or nill, and
the shield that is to-fore you shall not help. When Balin heard the noise, he turned his horse
fiercely, and said, Fair knight, what will ye with me, will ye joust with me? Yea, said the
Irish knight, therefore come I after you. Peradventure, said Balin, it had been better to have
holden you at home, for many a man weeneth to put his enemy to a rebuke, and oft it falleth
to himself. Of what court be ye sent from? said Balin. I am come from the court of King Arthur,
said the knight of Ireland, that come hither for to revenge the despite ye did this day to
King Arthur and to his court. Well, said Balin, I see well I must have ado with you, that me
forthinketh for to grieve King Arthur, or any of his court; and your quarrel is full simple,
said Balin, unto me, for the lady that is dead, did me great damage, and else would I have
been loath as any knight that liveth for to slay a lady. Make you ready, said the knight Lanceor,
and dress you unto me, for that one shall abide in the field. Then they took their spears,
and came together as much as their horses might drive, and the Irish knight smote Balin on
the shield, that all went shivers off his spear, and Balin hit him through the shield, and
the hauberk perished, and so pierced through his body and the horse's croup, and anon turned
his horse fiercely, and drew out his sword, and wist not that he had slain him; and then he
saw him lie as a dead corpse.

THEN he looked by him, and was ware of a damosel that came riding full fast as the horse might
ride, on a fair palfrey. And when she espied that Lanceor was slain, she made sorrow out of
measure, and said, O Balin, two bodies thou hast slain and one heart, and two hearts in one
body, and two souls thou hast lost. And therewith she took the sword from her love that lay
dead, and fell to the ground in a swoon. And when she arose she made great dole out of measure,
the which sorrow grieved Balin passingly sore, and he went unto her for to have taken the sword
out of her hand, but she held it so fast he might not take it out of her hand unless he should
have hurt her, and suddenly she set the pommel to the ground, and rove herself through the
body. When Balin espied her deeds, he was passing heavy in his heart, and ashamed that so fair
a damosel had destroyed herself for the love of his death. Then Balan said, I little weened
to have met with you at this sudden adventure; I am right glad of your deliverance out of your
dolorous prisonment, for a man told me, in the castle of Four Stones, that ye were delivered,
and that man had seen you in the court of King Arthur, and therefore I came hither into this
country, for here I supposed to find you. Anon the knight Balin told his brother of his adventure
of the sword, and of the death of the Lady of the Lake, and how King Arthur was displeased
with him. Wherefore he sent this knight after me, that lieth here dead, and the death of this
damosel grieveth me sore. So doth it me, said Balan, but ye must take the adventure that God
will ordain you. I will well, said Balan, that we do, and we will help each other as brethren
ought to do.

Now go we hence, said Balin, and well be we met. The meanwhile as they talked, there came a
dwarf from the city of Camelot on horseback, as much as he might; and found the dead bodies,
wherefore he made great dole, and pulled out his hair for sorrow, and said, Which of you knights
have done this deed? Whereby askest thou it? said Balan. For I would wit it, said the dwarf.
It was I, said Balin, that slew this knight in my defence, for hither he came to chase me,
and either I must slay him or he me; and this damosel slew herself for his love, which repenteth
me, and for her sake I shall owe all women the better love. Alas, said the dwarf, thou hast
done great damage unto thyself, for this knight that is here dead was one of the most valiantest
men that lived, and trust well, Balin, the kin of this knight will chase you through the world
till they have slain you. As for that, said Balin, I fear not greatly, but I am right heavy
that I have displeased my lord King Arthur, for the death of this knight. So as they talked
together, there came a king of Cornwall riding, the which hight King Mark. And when he saw
these two bodies dead, and understood how they were dead, by the two knights above said, then
made the king great sorrow for the true love that was betwixt them, and said, I will not depart
till I have on this earth made a tomb, and there he pight his pavilions and sought through
all the country to find a tomb, and in a church they found one was fair and rich, and then
the king let put them both in the earth, and put the tomb upon them, and wrote the names of
them both on the tomb. How here lieth Lanceor the king's son of Ireland, that at his own request
was slain by the hands of Balin; and how his lady, Colombe, and paramour, slew herself with
her love's sword for dole and sorrow.

THE meanwhile as this was a-doing, in came Merlin to King Mark, and seeing all his doing, said,
Here shall be in this same place the greatest battle betwixt two knights that was or ever shall
be, and the truest lovers, and yet none of them shall slay other. And there Merlin wrote their
names upon the tomb with letters of gold that should fight in that place, whose names were
Launcelot de Lake, and Tristram. Thou art a marvellous man, said King Mark unto Merlin, that
speakest of such marvels, thou art a boistous man and an unlikely to tell of such deeds. What
is thy name? said King Mark. At this time, said Merlin, I will not tell, but at that time when
Sir Tristram is taken with his sovereign lady, then ye shall hear and know my name, and at
that time ye shall hear tidings that shall not please you. Then said Merlin to Balin, Thou
hast done thyself great hurt, because that thou savest not this lady that slew herself, that
might have saved her an thou wouldest. By the faith of my body, said Balin, I might not save
her, for she slew herself suddenly. Me repenteth, said Merlin; because of the death of that
lady thou shalt strike a stroke most dolorous that ever man struck, except the stroke of our
Lord, for thou shalt hurt the truest knight and the man of most worship that now liveth, and
through that stroke three kingdoms shall be in great poverty, misery and wretchedness twelve
years, and the knight shall not be whole of that wound for many years. Then Merlin took his
leave of Balin. And Balin said, If I wist it were sooth that ye say I should do such a perilous
deed as that, I would slay myself to make thee a liar. Therewith Merlin vanished away suddenly.
And then Balan and his brother took their leave of King Mark. First, said the king, tell me
your name. Sir, said Balan, ye may see he beareth two swords, thereby ye may call him the Knight
with the Two Swords. And so departed King Mark unto Camelot to King Arthur, and Balin took
the way toward King Rience; and as they rode together they met with Merlin disguised, but they
knew him not. Whither ride you? said Merlin. We have little to do, said the two knights, to
tell thee. But what is thy name? said Balin. At this time, said Merlin, I will not tell it
thee. It is evil seen, said the knights, that thou art a true man that thou wilt not tell thy
name. As for that, said Merlin, be it as it be may, I can tell you wherefore ye ride this way,
for to meet King Rience; but it will not avail you without ye have my counsel. Ah! said Balin,
ye are Merlin; we will be ruled by your counsel. Come on, said Merlin, ye shall have great
worship, and look that ye do knightly, for ye shall have great need. As for that, said Balin,
dread you not, we will do what we may.

THEN Merlin lodged them in a wood among leaves beside the highway, and took off the bridles
of their horses and put them to grass and laid them down to rest them till it was nigh midnight.
Then Merlin bade them rise, and make them ready, for the king was nigh them, that was stolen
away from his host with a three score horses of his best knights, and twenty of them rode to-fore
to warn the Lady de Vance that the king was coming; for that night King Rience should have
lain with her. Which is the king? said Balin. Abide, said Merlin, here in a strait way ye shall
meet with him; and therewith he showed Balin and his brother where he rode.

Anon Balin and his brother met with the king, and smote him down, and wounded him fiercely,
and laid him to the ground; and there they slew on the right hand and the left hand, and slew
more than forty of his men, and the remnant fled. Then went they again to King Rience and would
have slain him had he not yielded him unto their grace. Then said he thus: Knights full of
prowess, slay me not, for by my life ye may win, and by my death ye shall win nothing. Then
said these two knights, Ye say sooth and truth, and so laid him on a horse-litter. With that
Merlin was vanished, and came to King Arthur aforehand, and told him how his most enemy was
taken and discomfited. By whom? said King Arthur. By two knights, said Merlin, that would please
your lordship, and to-morrow ye shall know what knights they are. Anon after came the Knight
with the Two Swords and Balan his brother, and brought with them King Rience of North Wales,
and there delivered him to the porters, and charged them with him; and so they two returned
again in the dawning of the day. King Arthur came then to King Rience, and said, Sir king,
ye are welcome: by what adventure come ye hither? Sir, said King Rience, I came hither by an
hard adventure. Who won you? said King Arthur. Sir, said the king, the Knight with the Two
Swords and his brother, which are two marvellous knights of prowess. I know them not, said
Arthur, but much I am beholden to them. Ah, said Merlin, I shall tell you: it is Balin that
achieved the sword, and his brother Balan, a good knight, there liveth not a better of prowess
and of worthiness, and it shall be the greatest dole of him that ever I knew of knight, for
he shall not long endure. Alas, said King Arthur, that is great pity; for I am much beholden
unto him, and I have ill deserved it unto him for his kindness. Nay, said Merlin, he shall
do much more for you, and that shall ye know in haste. But, sir, are ye purveyed, said Merlin,
for to-morn the host of Nero, King Rience's brother, will set on you or noon with a great host,
and therefore make you ready, for I will depart from you.

THEN King Arthur made ready his host in ten battles and Nero was ready in the field afore the
Castle Terrabil with a great host, and he had ten battles, with many more people than Arthur
had. Then Nero had the vanguard with the most part of his people, and Merlin came to King Lot
of the Isle of Orkney, and held him with a tale of prophecy, till Nero and his people were
destroyed. And there Sir Kay the seneschal did passingly well, that the days of his life the
worship went never from him; and Sir Hervis de Revel did marvellous deeds with King Arthur,
and King Arthur slew that day twenty knights and maimed forty. At that time came in the Knight
with the Two Swords and his brother Balan, but they two did so marvellously that the king and
all the knights marvelled of them, and all they that beheld them said they were sent from heaven
as angels, or devils from hell; and King Arthur said himself they were the best knights that
ever he saw, for they gave such strokes that all men had wonder of them.

In the meanwhile came one to King Lot, and told him while he tarried there Nero was destroyed
and slain with all his people. Alas, said King Lot, I am ashamed, for by my default there is
many a worshipful man slain, for an we had been together there had been none host under the
heaven that had been able for to have matched with us; this faiter with his prophecy hath mocked
me. All that did Merlin, for he knew well that an King Lot had been with his body there at
the first battle, King Arthur had been slain, and all his people destroyed; and well Merlin
knew that one of the kings should be dead that day, and loath was Merlin that any of them both
should be slain; but of the twain, he had liefer King Lot had been slain than King Arthur.
Now what is best to do? said King Lot of Orkney; whether is me better to treat with King Arthur
or to fight, for the greater part of our people are slain and destroyed? Sir, said a knight,
set on Arthur for they are weary and forfoughten and we be fresh. As for me, said King Lot,
I would every knight would do his part as I would do mine. And then they advanced banners and
smote together and all to-shivered their spears; and Arthur's knights, with the help of the
Knight with the Two Swords and his brother Balan put King Lot and his host to the worse. But
always King Lot held him in the foremost front, and did marvellous deeds of arms, for all his
host was borne up by his hands, for he abode all knights. Alas he might not endure, the which
was great pity, that so worthy a knight as he was one should be overmatched, that of late time
afore had been a knight of King Arthur's, and wedded the sister of King Arthur; and for King
Arthur lay by King Lot's wife, the which was Arthur's sister, and gat on her Mordred, therefore
King Lot held against Arthur. So there was a knight that was called the Knight with the Strange
Beast, and at that time his right name was called Pellinore, the which was a good man of prowess,
and he smote a mighty stroke at King Lot as he fought with all his enemies, and he failed of
his stroke, and smote the horse's neck, that he fell to the ground with King Lot. And therewith
anon Pellinore smote him a great stroke through the helm and head unto the brows. And then
all the host of Orkney fled for the death of King Lot, and there were slain many mothers' sons.
But King Pellinore bare the wite of the death of King Lot, wherefore Sir Gawaine revenged the
death of his father the tenth year after he was made knight, and slew King Pellinore with his
own hands. Also there were slain at that battle twelve kings on the side of King Lot with Nero,
and all were buried in the Church of Saint Stephen's in Camelot, and the remnant of knights
and of others were buried in a great rock.

SO at the interment came King Lot's wife Margawse with her four sons, Gawaine, Agravaine, Gaheris,
and Gareth. Also there came thither King Uriens, Sir Ewaine's father, and Morgan le Fay his
wife that was King Arthur's sister. All these came to the interment. But of all these twelve
kings King Arthur let make the tomb of King Lot passing richly, and made his tomb by his own;
and then Arthur let make twelve images of latten and copper, and over-gilt it with gold, in
the sign of twelve kings, and each one of them held a taper of wax that burnt day and night;
and King Arthur was made in sign of a figure standing above them with a sword drawn in his
hand, and all the twelve figures had countenance like unto men that were overcome. All this
made Merlin by his subtle craft, and there he told the king, When I am dead these tapers shall
burn no longer, and soon after the adventures of the Sangreal shall come among you and be achieved.
Also he told Arthur how Balin the worshipful knight shall give the dolorous stroke, whereof
shall fall great vengeance. Oh, where is Balin and Balan and Pellinore? said King Arthur. As
for Pellinore, said Merlin, he will meet with you soon; and as for Balin he will not be long
from you; but the other brother will depart, ye shall see him no more. By my faith, said Arthur,
they are two marvellous knights, and namely Balin passeth of prowess of any knight that ever
I found, for much beholden am I unto him; would God he would abide with me. Sir, said Merlin,
look ye keep well the scabbard of Excalibur, for ye shall lose no blood while ye have the scabbard
upon you, though ye have as many wounds upon you as ye may have. So after, for great trust,
Arthur betook the scabbard to Morgan le Fay his sister, and she loved another knight better
than her husband King Uriens or King Arthur, and she would have had Arthur her brother slain,
and therefore she let make another scabbard like it by enchantment, and gave the scabbard Excalibur
to her love; and the knight's name was called Accolon, that after had near slain King Arthur.
After this Merlin told unto King Arthur of the prophecy that there should be a great battle
beside Salisbury, and Mordred his own son should be against him. Also he told him that Bagdemegus
was his cousin, and germain unto King Uriens.

WITHIN a day or two King Arthur was somewhat sick, and he let pitch his pavilion in a meadow,
and there he laid him down on a pallet to sleep, but he might have no rest. Right so he heard
a great noise of an horse, and therewith the king looked out at the porch of the pavilion,
and saw a knight coming even by him, making great dole. Abide, fair sir, said Arthur, and tell
me wherefore thou makest this sorrow. Ye may little amend me, said the knight, and so passed
forth to the castle of Meliot. Anon after there came Balin, and when he saw King Arthur he
alighted off his horse, and came to the King on foot, and saluted him. By my head, said Arthur,
ye be welcome. Sir, right now came riding this way a knight making great mourn, for what cause
I cannot tell; wherefore I would desire of you of your courtesy and of your gentleness to fetch
again that knight either by force or else by his good will. I will do more for your lordship
than that, said Balin; and so he rode more than a pace, and found the knight with a damosel
in a forest, and said, Sir knight, ye must come with me unto King Arthur, for to tell him of
your sorrow. That will I not, said the knight, for it will scathe me greatly, and do you none
avail. Sir, said Balin, I pray you make you ready, for ye must go with me, or else I must fight
with you and bring you by force, and that were me loath to do. Will ye be my warrant, said
the knight, an I go with you? Yea, said Balin, or else I will die therefore. And so he made
him ready to go with Balin, and left the damosel still. And as they were even afore King Arthur's
pavilion, there came one invisible, and smote this knight that went with Balin throughout the
body with a spear. Alas, said the knight, I am slain under your conduct with a knight called
Garlon; therefore take my horse that is better than yours, and ride to the damosel, and follow
the quest that I was in as she will lead you, and revenge my death when ye may. That shall
I do, said Balin, and that I make vow unto knighthood; and so he departed from this knight
with great sorrow. So King Arthur let bury this knight richly, and made a mention on his tomb,
how there was slain Herlews le Berbeus, and by whom the treachery was done, the knight Garlon.
But ever the damosel bare the truncheon of the spear with her that Sir Herlews was slain withal.

So Balin and the damosel rode into a forest, and there met with a knight that had been a-hunting,
and that knight asked Balin for what cause he made so great sorrow. Me list not to tell you,
said Balin. Now, said the knight, an I were armed as ye be I would fight with you. That should
little need, said Balin, I am not afeard to tell you, and told him all the cause how it was.
Ah, said the knight, is this all? here I ensure you by the faith of my body never to depart
from you while my life lasteth. And so they went to the hostelry and armed them, and so rode
forth with Balin. And as they came by an hermitage even by a churchyard, there came the knight
Garlon invisible, and smote this knight, Perin de Mountbeliard, through the body with a spear.
Alas, said the knight, I am slain by this traitor knight that rideth invisible. Alas, said
Balin, it is not the first despite he hath done me; and there the hermit and Balin buried the
knight under a rich stone and a tomb royal. And on the morn they found letters of gold written,
how Sir Gawaine shall revenge his father's death, King Lot, on the King Pellinore. Anon after
this Balin and the damosel rode till they came to a castle, and there Balin alighted, and he
and the damosel went to go into the castle, and anon as Balin came within the castle's gate
the portcullis fell down at his back, and there fell many men about the damosel, and would
have slain her. When Balin saw that, he was sore aggrieved, for he might not help the damosel.
Then he went up into the tower, and leapt over walls into the ditch, and hurt him not; and
anon he pulled out his sword and would have foughten with them. And they all said nay, they
would not fight with him, for they did nothing but the old custom of the castle; and told him
how their lady was sick, and had lain many years, and she might not be whole but if she had
a dish of silver full of blood of a clean maid and a king's daughter; and therefore the custom
of this castle is, there shall no damosel pass this way but she shall bleed of her blood in
a silver dish full. Well, said Balin, she shall bleed as much as she may bleed, but I will
not lose the life of her whiles my life lasteth. And so Balin made her to bleed by her good
will, but her blood helped not the lady. And so he and she rested there all night, and had
there right good cheer, and on the morn they passed on their ways. And as it telleth after
in the Sangreal, that Sir Percivale's sister helped that lady with her blood, whereof she was dead.

THEN they rode three or four days and never met with adventure, and by hap they were lodged
with a gentle man that was a rich man and well at ease. And as they sat at their supper Balin
overheard one complain grievously by him in a chair. What is this noise? said Balin. Forsooth,
said his host, I will tell you. I was but late at a jousting, and there I jousted with a knight
that is brother unto King Pellam, and twice smote I him down, and then he promised to quit
me on my best friend; and so he wounded my son, that cannot be whole till I have of that knight's
blood, and he rideth alway invisible; but I know not his name. Ah! said Balin, I know that
knight, his name is Garlon, he hath slain two knights of mine in the same manner, therefore
I had liefer meet with that knight than all the gold in this realm, for the despite he hath
done me. Well, said his host, I shall tell you, King Pellam of Listeneise hath made do cry
in all this country a great feast that shall be within these twenty days, and no knight may
come there but if he bring his wife with him, or his paramour; and that knight, your enemy
and mine, ye shall see that day. Then I behote you, said Balin, part of his blood to heal your
son withal. We will be forward to-morn, said his host. So on the morn they rode all three toward
Pellam, and they had fifteen days' journey or they came thither; and that same day began the
great feast. And so they alighted and stabled their horses, and went into the castle; but Balin's
host might not be let in because he had no lady.

Soon Balin asked a knight, Is there not a knight in this court whose name is Garlon? Yonder
he goeth, said a knight, he with the black face; he is the marvellest knight that is now living,
for he destroyeth many good knights, for he goeth invisible. Ah well, said Balin, is that he?
Then Balin advised him long: If I slay him here I shall not escape, and if I leave him now,
peradventure I shall never meet with him again at such a steven, and much harm he will do an
he live. Therewith this Garlon espied that this Balin beheld him, and then he came and smote
Balin on the face with the back of his hand, and said, Knight, why beholdest me so? for shame
therefore, eat thy meat and do that thou came for. Thou sayest sooth, said Balin, this is not
the first despite that thou hast done me, and therefore I will do what I came for, and rose
up fiercely and clave his head to the shoulders. Give me the truncheon, said Balin to his lady,
wherewith he slew your knight. Anon she gave it him, for alway she bare the truncheon with
her. And therewith Balin smote him through the body, and said openly, With that truncheon thou
hast slain a good knight, and now it sticketh in thy body. And then Balin called unto him his
host, saying, Now may ye fetch blood enough to heal your son withal. Well, said Balin, do it
yourself. Yes, said King Pellam, there shall no man have ado with thee but myself, for the
love of my brother. And at the last he entered into a chamber that was marvellously well dight
and richly, and a bed arrayed with cloth of gold, the richest that might be thought, and one
lying therein, and thereby stood a table of clean gold with four pillars of silver that bare
up the table, and upon the table stood a marvellous spear strangely wrought. And so the most
part of the castle, that was fallen down through that dolorous stroke, lay upon Pellam and
Balin three days. I would have my damosel, said Balin. Lo, said Merlin, where she lieth dead.
And King Pellam lay so, many years sore wounded, and might never be whole till Galahad the
haut prince healed him in the quest of the Sangreal, for in that place was part of the blood
of our Lord Jesus Christ, that Joseph of Arimathea brought into this land, and there himself
lay in that rich bed. And that was the same spear that Longius smote our Lord to the heart;
and King Pellam was nigh of Joseph's kin, and that was the most worshipful man that lived in
those days, and great pity it was of his hurt, for through that stroke, turned to great dole,
tray and tene. Then departed Balin from Merlin, and said, In this world we meet never no more.
So he rode forth through the fair countries and cities, and found the people dead, slain on
every side.

So he rode eight days or he met with adventure. And at the last he came into a fair forest
in a valley, and was ware of a tower, and there beside he saw a great horse of war, tied to
a tree, and there beside sat a fair knight on the ground and made great mourning, and he was
a likely man, and a well made. Balin said, God save you, why be ye so heavy? tell me and I
will amend it, an I may, to my power. Sir knight, said he again, thou dost me great grief,
for I was in merry thoughts, and now thou puttest me to more pain. Balin went a little from
him, and looked on his horse; then heard Balin him say thus: Ah, fair lady, why have ye broken
my promise, for thou promisest me to meet me here by noon, and I may curse thee that ever ye
gave me this sword, for with this sword I slay myself, and pulled it out. And therewith Balin
stert unto him and took him by the hand. Let go my hand, said the knight, or else I shall slay
thee. That shall not need, said Balin, for I shall promise you my help to get you your lady,
an ye will tell me where she is. What is your name? said the knight. My name is Balin le Savage.
Ah, sir, I know you well enough, ye are the Knight with the Two Swords, and the man of most
prowess of your hands living. What is your name? said Balin. My name is Garnish of the Mount,
a poor man's son, but by my prowess and hardiness a duke hath made me knight, and gave me lands;
his name is Duke Hermel, and his daughter is she that I love, and she me as I deemed. How far
is she hence? said Balin. But six mile, said the knight. Now ride we hence, said these two
knights. So they rode more than a pace, till that they came to a fair castle well walled and
ditched. I will into the castle, said Balin, and look if she be there. So he went in and searched
from chamber to chamber, and found her bed, but she was not there. Then Balin looked into a
fair little garden, and under a laurel tree he saw her lie upon a quilt of green samite and
a knight in her arms, fast halsing either other, and under their heads grass and herbs. When
Balin saw her lie so with the foulest knight that ever he saw, and she a fair lady, then Balin
went through all the chambers again, and told the knight how he found her as she had slept
fast, and so brought him in the place there she lay fast sleeping.

AND when Garnish beheld her so lying, for pure sorrow his mouth and nose burst out a-bleeding,
and with his sword he smote off both their heads, and then he made sorrow out of measure, and
said, O Balin, much sorrow hast thou brought unto me, for hadst thou not shewed me that sight
I should have passed my sorrow. Forsooth, said Balin, I did it to this intent that it should
better thy courage, and that ye might see and know her falsehood, and to cause you to leave
love of such a lady; God knoweth I did none other but as I would ye did to me. Alas, said Garnish,
now is my sorrow double that I may not endure, now have I slain that I most loved in all my
life; and therewith suddenly he rove himself on his own sword unto the hilts. When Balin saw
that, he dressed him thenceward, lest folk would say he had slain them; and so he rode forth,
and within three days he came by a cross, and thereon were letters of gold written, that said,
It is not for no knight alone to ride toward this castle. Then saw he an old hoar gentleman
coming toward him, that said, Balin le Savage, thou passest thy bounds to come this way, therefore
turn again and it will avail thee. And he vanished away anon; and so he heard an horn blow
as it had been the death of a beast. That blast, said Balin, is blown for me, for I am the
prize and yet am I not dead. That is an unhappy custom, said Balin, that a knight may not pass
this way but if he joust. Ye shall not have ado but with one knight, said the lady. Sir, said
a knight to Balin, methinketh your shield is not good, I will lend you a bigger. Thereof I
pray you.

THEN afore him he saw come riding out of a castle a knight, and his horse trapped all red,
and himself in the same colour. When this knight in the red beheld Balin, him thought it should
be his brother Balin by cause of his two swords, but by cause he knew not his shield he deemed
it was not he. And at that time there was none of them both but they had either smitten other
seven great wounds, so that the least of them might have been the death of the mightiest giant
in this world. Alas, said Balin, all that made an unhappy knight in the castle, for he caused
me to leave my own shield to our both's destruction, and if I might live I would destroy that
castle for ill customs. That were well done, said Balan, for I had never grace to depart from
them since that I came hither, for here it happed me to slay a knight that kept this island,
and since might I never depart, and no more should ye, brother, an ye might have slain me as
ye have, and escaped yourself with the life.

Right so came the lady of the tower with four knights and six ladies and six yeomen unto them,
and there she heard how they made their moan either to other, and said, We came both out of
one tomb, that is to say one mother's belly, and so shall we lie both in one pit. So Balan
prayed the lady of her gentleness, for his true service, that she would bury them both in that
same place there the battle was done. And she granted them, with weeping, it should be done
richly in the best manner. Now, will ye send for a priest, that we may receive our sacrament,
and receive the blessed body of our Lord Jesus Christ? Yea, said the lady, it shall be done;
and so she sent for a priest and gave them their rights. Now, said Balin, when we are buried
in one tomb, and the mention made over us how two brethren slew each other, there will never
good knight, nor good man, see our tomb but they will pray for our souls. And so all the ladies
and gentlewomen wept for pity. Then anon Balan died, but Balin died not till the midnight after,
and so were they buried both, and the lady let make a mention of Balan how he was there slain
by his brother's hands, but she knew not Balin's name.

CHAPTER XIX. How Merlin buried them both in one tomb, and of Balin's sword.

IN the morn came Merlin and let write Balin's name on the tomb with letters of gold, that Here
lieth Balin le Savage that was the Knight with the Two Swords, and he that smote the Dolorous
Stroke. Also Merlin let make there a bed, that there should never man lie therein but he went
out of his wit, yet Launcelot de Lake fordid that bed through his noblesse. And anon after
Balin was dead, Merlin took his sword, and took off the pommel and set on another pommel. So
Merlin bade a knight that stood afore him handle that sword, and he assayed, and he might not
handle it. Then Merlin laughed. Why laugh ye? said the knight. This is the cause, said Merlin:
there shall never man handle this sword but the best knight of the world, and that shall be
Sir Launcelot or else Galahad his son, and Launcelot with this sword shall slay the man that
in the world he loved best, that shall be Sir Gawaine. All this he let write in the pommel
of the sword. Then Merlin let make a bridge of iron and of steel into that island, and it was
but half a foot broad, and there shall never man pass that bridge, nor have hardiness to go
over, but if he were a passing good man and a good knight without treachery or villainy. Also
the scabbard of Balin's sword Merlin left it on this side the island, that Galahad should find
it. Also Merlin let make by his subtilty that Balin's sword was put in a marble stone standing
upright as great as a mill stone, and the stone hoved always above the water and did many years,
and so by adventure it swam down the stream to the City of Camelot, that is in English Winchester.
And that same day Galahad the haut prince came with King Arthur, and so Galahad brought with
him the scabbard and achieved the sword that was there in the marble stone hoving upon the
water. And on Whitsunday he achieved the sword as it is rehearsed in the book of Sangreal.

Sequitur iii liber.

IN the beginning of Arthur, after he was chosen king by adventure and by grace; for the most
part of the barons knew not that he was Uther Pendragon's son, but as Merlin made it openly
known. But yet many kings and lords held great war against him for that cause, but well Arthur
overcame them all, for the most part the days of his life he was ruled much by the counsel
of Merlin. So it fell on a time King Arthur said unto Merlin, My barons will let me have no
rest, but needs I must take a wife, and I will none take but by thy counsel and by thine advice.
It is well done, said Merlin, that ye take a wife, for a man of your bounty and noblesse should
not be without a wife. Now is there any that ye love more than another? Yea, said King Arthur,
I love Guenever the king's daughter, Leodegrance of the land of Cameliard, the which holdeth
in his house the Table Round that ye told he had of my father Uther. And this damosel is the
most valiant and fairest lady that I know living, or yet that ever I could find. Sir, said
Merlin, as of her beauty and fairness she is one of the fairest alive, but, an ye loved her
not so well as ye do, I should find you a damosel of beauty and of goodness that should like
you and please you, an your heart were not set; but there as a man's heart is set, he will
be loath to return. That is truth, said King Arthur. But Merlin warned the king covertly that
Guenever was not wholesome for him to take to wife, for he warned him that Launcelot should
love her, and she him again; and so he turned his tale to the adventures of Sangreal.

Then Merlin desired of the king for to have men with him that should enquire of Guenever, and
so the king granted him, and Merlin went forth unto King Leodegrance of Cameliard, and told
him of the desires of the king that he would have unto his wife Guenever his daughter. That
is to me, said King Leodegrance, the best tidings that ever I heard, that so worthy a king
of prowess and noblesse will wed my daughter. And as for my lands, I will give him, wist I
it might please him, but he hath lands enow, him needeth none; but I shall send him a gift
shall please him much more, for I shall give him the Table Round, the which Uther Pendragon
gave me, and when it is full complete, there is an hundred knights and fifty. And as for an
hundred good knights I have myself, but I faute fifty, for so many have been slain in my days.
And so Leodegrance delivered his daughter Guenever unto Merlin, and the Table Round with the
hundred knights, and so they rode freshly, with great royalty, what by water and what by land,
till that they came nigh unto London.

WHEN King Arthur heard of the coming of Guenever and the hundred knights with the Table Round,
then King Arthur made great joy for her coming, and that rich present, and said openly, This
fair lady is passing welcome unto me, for I have loved her long, and therefore there is nothing
so lief to me. And these knights with the Round Table please me more than right great riches.
And in all haste the king let ordain for the marriage and the coronation in the most honourable
wise that could be devised. Now, Merlin, said King Arthur, go thou and espy me in all this
land fifty knights which be of most prowess and worship. Within short time Merlin had found
such knights that should fulfil twenty and eight knights, but no more he could find. Then the
Bishop of Canterbury was fetched, and he blessed the sieges with great royalty and devotion,
and there set the eight and twenty knights in their sieges. And when this was done Merlin said,
Fair sirs, ye must all arise and come to King Arthur for to do him homage; he will have the
better will to maintain you. And so they arose and did their homage, and when they were gone
Merlin found in every sieges letters of gold that told the knights' names that had sitten therein.
But two sieges were void. And so anon came young Gawaine and asked the king a gift. Ask, said
the king, and I shall grant it you. Sir, I ask that ye will make me knight that same day ye
shall wed fair Guenever. I will do it with a good will, said King Arthur, and do unto you all
the worship that I may, for I must by reason ye are my nephew, my sister's son.

FORTHWITHAL there came a poor man into the court, and brought with him a fair young man of
eighteen years of age riding upon a lean mare; and the poor man asked all men that he met,
Where shall I find King Arthur? Yonder he is, said the knights, wilt thou anything with him?
Yea, said the poor man, therefore I came hither. Anon as he came before the king, he saluted
him and said: O King Arthur, the flower of all knights and kings, I beseech Jesu save thee.
Sir, it was told me that at this time of your marriage ye would give any man the gift that
he would ask, out except that were unreasonable. That is truth, said the king, such cries I
let make, and that will I hold, so it apair not my realm nor mine estate. Ye say well and graciously,
said the poor man; Sir, I ask nothing else but that ye will make my son here a knight. It is
a great thing thou askest of me, said the king. What is thy name? said the king to the poor
man. Sir, my name is Aries the cowherd. Whether cometh this of thee or of thy son? said the
king. Nay, sir, said Aries, this desire cometh of my son and not of me, for I shall tell you
I have thirteen sons, and all they will fall to what labour I put them, and will be right glad
to do labour, but this child will not labour for me, for anything that my wife or I may do,
but always he will be shooting or casting darts, and glad for to see battles and to behold
knights, and always day and night he desireth of me to be made a knight. What is thy name?
said the king unto the young man. Sir, my name is Tor. The king beheld him fast, and saw he
was passingly well-visaged and passingly well made of his years. Well, said King Arthur unto
Aries the cowherd, fetch all thy sons afore me that I may see them. And so the poor man did,
and all were shaped much like the poor man. But Tor was not like none of them all in shape
nor in countenance, for he was much more than any of them. Now, said King Arthur unto the cow
herd, where is the sword he shall be made knight withal? It is here, said Tor. Take it out
of the sheath, said the king, and require me to make you a knight.

Then Tor alighted off his mare and pulled out his sword, kneeling, and requiring the king that
he would make him knight, and that he might be a knight of the Table Round. As for a knight
I will make you, and therewith smote him in the neck with the sword, saying, Be ye a good knight,
and so I pray to God so ye may be, and if ye be of prowess and of worthiness ye shall be a
knight of the Table Round. Now Merlin, said Arthur, say whether this Tor shall be a good knight
or no. Yea, sir, he ought to be a good knight, for he is come of as good a man as any is alive,
and of kings' blood. How so, sir? said the king. I shall tell you, said Merlin: This poor man,
Aries the cowherd, is not his father; he is nothing sib to him, for King Pellinore is his father.
I suppose nay, said the cowherd. Fetch thy wife afore me, said Merlin, and she shall not say
nay. Anon the wife was fetched, which was a fair housewife, and there she answered Merlin full
womanly, and there she told the king and Merlin that when she was a maid, and went to milk
kine, there met with her a stern knight, and half by force he had my maidenhead, and at that
time he begat my son Tor, and he took away from me my greyhound that I had that time with me,
and said that he would keep the greyhound for my love. Ah, said the cowherd, I weened not this,
but I may believe it well, for he had never no tatches of me. Sir, said Tor unto Merlin, dishonour
not my mother. Sir, said Merlin, it is more for your worship than hurt, for your father is
a good man and a king, and he may right well advance you and your mother, for ye were begotten
or ever she was wedded. That is truth, said the wife. It is the less grief unto me, said the
cowherd.

SO on the morn King Pellinore came to the court of King Arthur, which had great joy of him,
and told him of Tor, how he was his son, and how he had made him knight at the request of the
cowherd. When Pellinore beheld Tor, he pleased him much. So the king made Gawaine knight, but
Tor was the first he made at the feast. What is the cause, said King Arthur, that there be
two places void in the sieges? Sir, said Merlin, there shall no man sit in those places but
they that shall be of most worship. But in the Siege Perilous there shall no man sit therein
but one, and if there be any so hardy to do it he shall be destroyed, and he that shall sit
there shall have no fellow. And therewith Merlin took King Pellinore by the hand, and in the
one hand next the two sieges and the Siege Perilous he said, in open audience, This is your
place and best ye are worthy to sit therein of any that is here. Thereat sat Sir Gawaine in
great envy and told Gaheris his brother, yonder knight is put to great worship, the which grieveth
me sore, for he slew our father King Lot, therefore I will slay him, said Gawaine, with a sword
that was sent me that is passing trenchant. Ye shall not so, said Gaheris, at this time, for
at this time I am but a squire, and when I am made knight I will be avenged on him, and therefore,
brother, it is best ye suffer till another time, that we may have him out of the court, for
an we did so we should trouble this high feast. I will well, said Gawaine, as ye will.

THEN was the high feast made ready, and the king was wedded at Camelot unto Dame Guenever in
the church of Saint Stephen's, with great solemnity. And as every man was set after his degree,
Merlin went to all the knights of the Round Table, and bade them sit still, that none of them
remove. For ye shall see a strange and a marvellous adventure. Right so as they sat there came
running in a white hart into the hall, and a white brachet next him, and thirty couple of black
running hounds came after with a great cry, and the hart went about the Table Round as he went
by other boards. The white brachet bit him by the buttock and pulled out a piece, wherethrough
the hart leapt a great leap and overthrew a knight that sat at the board side; and therewith
the knight arose and took up the brachet, and so went forth out of the hall, and took his horse
and rode his way with the brachet. Right so anon came in a lady on a white palfrey, and cried
aloud to King Arthur, Sir, suffer me not to have this despite, for the brachet was mine that
the knight led away. I may not do therewith, said the king.

With this there came a knight riding all armed on a great horse, and took the lady away with
him with force, and ever she cried and made great dole. When she was gone the king was glad,
for she made such a noise. Nay, said Merlin, ye may not leave these adventures so lightly;
for these adventures must be brought again or else it would be disworship to you and to your
feast. I will, said the king, that all be done by your advice. Then, said Merlin, let call
Sir Gawaine, for he must bring again the white hart. Also, sir, ye must let call Sir Tor, for
he must bring again the brachet and the knight, or else slay him. Also let call King Pellinore,
for he must bring again the lady and the knight, or else slay him. And these three knights
shall do marvellous adventures or they come again. Then were they called all three as it rehearseth
afore, and each of them took his charge, and armed them surely. But Sir Gawaine had the first
request, and therefore we will begin at him.

SIR GAWAINE rode more than a pace, and Gaheris his brother that rode with him instead of a
squire to do him service. So as they rode they saw two knights fight on horseback passing sore,
so Sir Gawaine and his brother rode betwixt them, and asked them for what cause they fought
so. The one knight answered and said, We fight for a simple matter, for we two be two brethren
born and begotten of one man and of one woman. Alas, said Sir Gawaine, why do ye so? Sir, said
the elder, there came a white hart this way this day, and many hounds chased him, and a white
brachet was alway next him, and we understood it was adventure made for the high feast of King
Arthur, and therefore I would have gone after to have won me worship; and here my younger brother
said he would go after the hart, for he was better knight than I: and for this cause we fell
at debate, and so we thought to prove which of us both was better knight. This is a simple
cause, said Sir Gawaine; uncouth men ye should debate withal, and not brother with brother;
therefore but if you will do by my counsel I will have ado with you, that is ye shall yield
you unto me, and that ye go unto King Arthur and yield you unto his grace. Sir knight, said
the two brethren, we are forfoughten and much blood have we lost through our wilfulness, and
therefore we would be loath to have ado with you. Then do as I will have you, said Sir Gawaine.
We will agree to fulfil your will; but by whom shall we say that we be thither sent? Ye may
say, By the knight that followeth the quest of the hart that was white. Now what is your name?
said Gawaine. Sorlouse of the Forest, said the elder. And my name is, said the younger, Brian
of the Forest. And so they departed and went to the king's court, and Sir Gawaine on his quest.

And as Gawaine followed the hart by the cry of the hounds, even afore him there was a great
river, and the hart swam over; and as Sir Gawaine would follow after, there stood a knight
over the other side, and said, Sir knight, come not over after this hart but if thou wilt joust
with me. I will not fail as for that, said Sir Gawaine, to follow the quest that I am in, and
so made his horse to swim over the water. And anon they gat their spears and ran together full
hard; but Sir Gawaine smote him off his horse, and then he turned his horse and bade him yield
him. Nay, said the knight, not so, though thou have the better of me on horseback. I pray thee,
valiant knight, alight afoot, and match we together with swords. What is your name? said Sir
Gawaine. Allardin of the Isles, said the other. Then either dressed their shields and smote
together, but Sir Gawaine smote him so hard through the helm that it went to the brains, and
the knight fell down dead. Ah! said Gaheris, that was a mighty stroke of a young knight.

THEN Gawaine and Gaheris rode more than a pace after the white hart, and let slip at the hart
three couple of greyhounds, and so they chased the hart into a castle, and in the chief place
of the castle they slew the hart; Sir Gawaine and Gaheris followed after. And anon he went
into his chamber and armed him, and came out fiercely, and there met he with Sir Gawaine. Why
have ye slain my hounds? said Sir Gawaine, for they did but their kind, and liefer I had ye
had wroken your anger upon me than upon a dumb beast. Thou sayest truth, said the knight, I
have avenged me on thy hounds, and so I will on thee or thou go. Right so came his lady out
of a chamber and fell over him, and so he smote off her head by misadventure. Alas, said Gaheris,
that is foully and shamefully done, that shame shall never from you; also ye should give mercy
unto them that ask mercy, for a knight without mercy is without worship. Sir Gawaine was so
stonied of the death of this fair lady that he wist not what he did, and said unto the knight,
Arise, I will give thee mercy. Nay, nay, said the knight, I take no force of mercy now, for
thou hast slain my love and my lady that I loved best of all earthly things. Me sore repenteth
it, said Sir Gawaine, for I thought to strike unto thee; but now thou shalt go unto King Arthur
and tell him of thine adventures, and how thou art overcome by the knight that went in the
quest of the white hart. I take no force, said the knight, whether I live or I die; but so
for dread of death he swore to go unto King Arthur, and he made him to bear one greyhound before
him on his horse, and another behind him. What is your name? said Sir Gawaine, or we depart.
My name is, said the knight, Ablamar of the Marsh. So he departed toward Camelot.

AND Sir Gawaine went into the castle, and made him ready to lie there all night, and would
have unarmed him. Also thou hast slain a fair lady to thy great shame to the world's end, and
doubt thou not thou shalt have great need of mercy or thou depart from us. And therewith one
of them smote Sir Gawaine a great stroke that nigh he fell to the earth, and Gaheris smote
him again sore, and so they were on the one side and on the other, that Sir Gawaine and Gaheris
were in jeopardy of their lives; and one with a bow, an archer, smote Sir Gawaine through the
arm that it grieved him wonderly sore. And as they should have been slain, there came four
fair ladies, and besought the knights of grace for Sir Gawaine; and goodly at request of the
ladies they gave Sir Gawaine and Gaheris their lives, and made them to yield them as prisoners.
Then Gawaine and Gaheris made great dole. Alas! said Sir Gawaine, mine arm grieveth me sore,
I am like to be maimed; and so made his complaint piteously.

Early on the morrow there came to Sir Gawaine one of the four ladies that had heard all his
complaint, and said, Sir knight, what cheer? Not good, said he. But be ye not of King Arthur's
kin? said the lady. Yes truly, said Sir Gawaine. What is your name? said the lady, ye must
tell it me or ye pass. And so she departed and told the four knights how their prisoner was
King Arthur's nephew, and his name is Sir Gawaine, King Lot's son of Orkney. And they gave
him the hart's head because it was in his quest. Right so rode he forth unto Camelot. Amen.

WHEN Sir Tor was ready, he mounted upon his horseback, and rode after the knight with the brachet.
So as he rode he met with a dwarf suddenly that smote his horse on the head with a staff, that
he went backward his spear length. Why dost thou so? said Sir Tor. For thou shalt not pass
this way, but if thou joust with yonder knights of the pavilions. Then was Tor ware where two
pavilions were, and great spears stood out, and two shields hung on trees by the pavilions.
I may not tarry, said Sir Tor, for I am in a quest that I must needs follow. Thou shalt not
pass, said the dwarf, and therewithal he blew his horn. Then there came one armed on horseback,
and dressed his shield, and came fast toward Tor, and he dressed him against him, and so ran
together that Tor bare him from his horse. And anon the knight yielded him to his mercy. But,
sir, I have a fellow in yonder pavilion that will have ado with you anon. He shall be welcome,
said Sir Tor. Then was he ware of another knight coming with great raundon, and each of them
dressed to other, that marvel it was to see; but the knight smote Sir Tor a great stroke in
midst of the shield that his spear all to-shivered. And Sir Tor smote him through the shield
below of the shield that it went through the cost of the knight, but the stroke slew him not.
And therewith Sir Tor alighted and smote him on the helm a great stroke, and therewith the
knight yielded him and besought him of mercy. I will well, said Sir Tor, but thou and thy fellow
must go unto King Arthur, and yield you prisoners unto him. By whom shall we say are we thither
sent? Ye shall say by the knight that went in the quest of the knight that went with the brachet.
Now, what be your two names? said Sir Tor. My name is, said the one, Sir Felot of Langduk;
and my name is, said the other, Sir Petipase of Winchelsea. Now go ye forth, said Sir Tor,
and God speed you and me. Then came the dwarf and said unto Sir Tor, I pray you give me a gift.
I will well, said Sir Tor, ask. I ask no more, said the dwarf, but that ye will suffer me to
do you service, for I will serve no more recreant knights. Take an horse, said Sir Tor, and
ride on with me. I wot ye ride after the knight with the white brachet, and I shall bring you
where he is, said the dwarf. And so they rode throughout a forest, and at the last they were
ware of two pavilions, even by a priory, with two shields, and the one shield was enewed with
white, and the other shield was red.

THEREWITH Sir Tor alighted and took the dwarf his glaive, and so he came to the white pavilion,
and saw three damosels lie in it, on one pallet, sleeping, and so he went to the other pavilion,
and found a lady lying sleeping therein, but there was the white brachet that bayed at her
fast, and therewith the lady yede out of the pavilion and all her damosels. But anon as Sir
Tor espied the white brachet, he took her by force and took her to the dwarf. What, will ye
so, said the lady, take my brachet from me? Yea, said Sir Tor, this brachet have I sought from
King Arthur's court hither. Well, said the lady, knight, ye shall not go far with her, but
that ye shall be met and grieved. I shall abide what adventure that cometh by the grace of
God, and so mounted upon his horse, and passed on his way toward Camelot; but it was so near
night he might not pass but little further. Know ye any lodging? said Tor. I know none, said
the dwarf, but here beside is an hermitage, and there ye must take lodging as ye find. And
within a while they came to the hermitage and took lodging; and was there grass, oats and bread
for their horses; soon it was sped, and full hard was their supper; but there they rested them
all night till on the morn, and heard a mass devoutly, and took their leave of the hermit,
and Sir Tor prayed the hermit to pray for him. He said he would, and betook him to God. And
so mounted upon horseback and rode towards Camelot a long while.

With that they heard a knight call loud that came after them, and he said, Knight, abide and
yield my brachet that thou took from my lady. Sir Tor returned again, and beheld him how he
was a seemly knight and well horsed, and well armed at all points; then Sir Tor dressed his
shield, and took his spear in his hands, and the other came fiercely upon him, and smote both
horse and man to the earth. Anon they arose lightly and drew their swords as eagerly as lions,
and put their shields afore them, and smote through the shields, that the cantels fell off
both parties. Also they tamed their helms that the hot blood ran out, and the thick mails of
their hauberks they carved and rove in sunder that the hot blood ran to the earth, and both
they had many wounds and were passing weary. But Sir Tor espied that the other knight fainted,
and then he sued fast upon him, and doubled his strokes, and gart him go to the earth on the
one side. Then Sir Tor bade him yield him. That will I not, said Abelleus, while my life lasteth
and the soul is within my body, unless that thou wilt give me the brachet. That will I not
do, said Sir Tor, for it was my quest to bring again thy brachet, thee, or both.

WITH that came a damosel riding on a palfrey as fast as she might drive, and cried with a loud
voice unto Sir Tor. What will ye with me? said Sir Tor. I beseech thee, said the damosel, for
King Arthur's love, give me a gift; I require thee, gentle knight, as thou art a gentleman.
Now, said Tor, ask a gift and I will give it you. Gramercy, said the damosel; now I ask the
head of the false knight Abelleus, for he is the most outrageous knight that liveth, and the
greatest murderer. I am loath, said Sir Tor, of that gift I have given you; let him make amends
in that he hath trespassed unto you. Now, said the damosel, he may not, for he slew mine own
brother before mine own eyes, that was a better knight than he, an he had had grace; and I
kneeled half an hour afore him in the mire for to save my brother's life, that had done him
no damage, but fought with him by adventure of arms, and so for all that I could do he struck
off his head; wherefore I require thee, as thou art a true knight, to give me my gift, or else
I shall shame thee in all the court of King Arthur; for he is the falsest knight living, and
a great destroyer of good knights. Then when Abelleus heard this, he was more afeard, and yielded
him and asked mercy. I may not now, said Sir Tor, but if I should be found false of my promise;
for while I would have taken you to mercy ye would none ask, but if ye had the brachet again,
that was my quest. And therewith he took off his helm, and he arose and fled, and Sir Tor after
him, and smote off his head quite.

Now sir, said the damosel, it is near night; I pray you come and lodge with me here at my place,
it is here fast by. I will well, said Sir Tor, for his horse and he had fared evil since they
departed from Camelot, and so he rode with her, and had passing good cheer with her; and she
had a passing fair old knight to her husband that made him passing good cheer, and well eased
both his horse and him. And on the morn he heard his mass, and brake his fast, and took his
leave of the knight and of the lady, that besought him to tell them his name. Truly, he said,
my name is Sir Tor that was late made knight, and this was the first quest of arms that ever
I did, to bring again that this knight Abelleus took away from King Arthur's court. O fair
knight, said the lady and her husband, an ye come here in our marches, come and see our poor
lodging, and it shall be always at your commandment. So Sir Tor departed and came to Camelot
on the third day by noon, and the king and the queen and all the court was passing fain of
his coming, and made great joy that he was come again; for he went from the court with little
succour, but as King Pellinore his father gave him an old courser, and King Arthur gave him
armour and a sword, and else had he none other succour, but rode so forth himself alone. And
then the king and the queen by Merlin's advice made him to swear to tell of his adventures,
and so he told and made proofs of his deeds as it is afore rehearsed, wherefore the king and
the queen made great joy. Nay, nay, said Merlin, these be but japes to that he shall do; for
he shall prove a noble knight of prowess, as good as any is living, and gentle and courteous,
and of good tatches, and passing true of his promise, and never shall outrage. Wherethrough
Merlin's words King Arthur gave him an earldom of lands that fell unto him. And here endeth
the quest of Sir Tor, King Pellinore's son.

THEN King Pellinore armed him and mounted upon his horse, and rode more than a pace after the
lady that the knight led away. And as he rode in a forest, he saw in a valley a damosel sit
by a well, and a wounded knight in her arms, and Pellinore saluted her. And when she was ware
of him, she cried overloud, Help me, knight; for Christ's sake, King Pellinore. And he would
not tarry, he was so eager in his quest, and ever she cried an hundred times after help. When
she saw he would not abide, she prayed unto God to send him as much need of help as she had,
and that he might feel it or he died. So, as the book telleth, the knight there died that there
was wounded, wherefore the lady for pure sorrow slew herself with his sword. As King Pellinore
rode in that valley he met with a poor man, a labourer. Sawest thou not, said Pellinore, a
knight riding and leading away a lady? Yea, said the man, I saw that knight, and the lady that
made great dole; and yonder beneath in a valley there shall ye see two pavilions, and one of
the knights of the pavilions challenged that lady of that knight, and said she was his cousin
near, wherefore he should lead her no farther. And so they waged battle in that quarrel, the
one said he would have her by force, and the other said he would have the rule of her, by cause
he was her kinsman, and would lead her to her kin. For this quarrel he left them fighting.
And if ye will ride a pace ye shall find them fighting, and the lady was beleft with the two
squires in the pavilions. God thank thee, said King Pellinore.

Then he rode a wallop till he had a sight of the two pavilions, and the two knights fighting.
Anon he rode unto the pavilions, and saw the lady that was his quest, and said, Fair lady,
ye must go with me unto the court of King Arthur. Sir knight, said the two squires that were
with her, yonder are two knights that fight for this lady, go thither and depart them, and
be agreed with them, and then may ye have her at your pleasure. Ye say well, said King Pellinore.
And anon he rode betwixt them, and departed them, and asked them the causes why that they fought?
Sir knight, said the one, I shall tell you, this lady is my kinswoman nigh, mine aunt's daughter,
and when I heard her complain that she was with him maugre her head, I waged battle to fight
with him. Sir knight, said the other, whose name was Hontzlake of Wentland, and this lady I
gat by my prowess of arms this day at Arthur's court. That is untruly said, said King Pellinore,
for ye came in suddenly there as we were at the high feast, and took away this lady or any
man might make him ready; and therefore it was my quest to bring her again and you both, or
else the one of us to abide in the field; therefore the lady shall go with me, or I will die
for it, for I have promised it King Arthur. And therefore fight ye no more, for none of you
shall have no part of her at this time; and if ye list to fight for her, fight with me, and
I will defend her. Well, said the knights, make you ready, and we shall assail you with all
our power. And as King Pellinore would have put his horse from them, Sir Hontzlake rove his
horse through with a sword, and said: Now art thou on foot as well as we are. When King Pellinore
espied that his horse was slain, lightly he leapt from his horse and pulled out his sword,
and put his shield afore him, and said, Knight, keep well thy head, for thou shalt have a buffet
for the slaying of my horse. So King Pellinore gave him such a stroke upon the helm that he
clave the head down to the chin, that he fell to the earth dead.

AND then he turned him to the other knight, that was sore wounded. But when he saw the other's
buffet, he would not fight, but kneeled down and said, Take my cousin the lady with you at
your request, and I require you, as ye be a true knight, put her to no shame nor villainy.
What, said King Pellinore, will ye not fight for her? No, sir, said the knight, I will not
fight with such a knight of prowess as ye be. Well, said Pellinore, ye say well; I promise
you she shall have no villainy by me, as I am true knight; but now me lacketh an horse, said
Pellinore, but I will have Hontzlake's horse. Ye shall not need, said the knight, for I shall
give you such an horse as shall please you, so that you will lodge with me, for it is near
night. I will well, said King Pellinore, abide with you all night. And there he had with him
right good cheer, and fared of the best with passing good wine, and had merry rest that night.
And on the morn he heard a mass and dined; and then was brought him a fair bay courser, and
King Pellinore's saddle set upon him. Now, what shall I call you? said the knight, inasmuch
as ye have my cousin at your desire of your quest. Sir, I shall tell you, my name is King Pellinore
of the Isles and knight of the Table Round. Now I am glad, said the knight, that such a noble
man shall have the rule of my cousin. Now, what is your name? said Pellinore, I pray you tell
me. Sir, my name is Sir Meliot of Logurs, and this lady my cousin hight Nimue, and the knight
that was in the other pavilion is my sworn brother, a passing good knight, and his name is
Brian of the Isles, and he is full loath to do wrong, and full loath to fight with any man,
but if he be sore sought on, so that for shame he may not leave it. It is marvel, said Pellinore,
that he will not have ado with me. Sir, he will not have ado with no man but if it be at his
request. Bring him to the court, said Pellinore, one of these days. Sir, we will come together.
And ye shall be welcome, said Pellinore, to the court of King Arthur, and greatly allowed for
your coming. And so he departed with the lady, and brought her to Camelot.

So as they rode in a valley it was full of stones, and there the lady's horse stumbled and
threw her down, that her arm was sore bruised and near she swooned for pain. Alas! sir, said
the lady, mine arm is out of lithe, wherethrough I must needs rest me. Ye shall well, said
King Pellinore. And so he alighted under a fair tree where was fair grass, and he put his horse
thereto, and so laid him under the tree and slept till it was nigh night. And when he awoke
he would have ridden. Sir, said the lady, it is so dark that ye may as well ride backward as
forward. So they abode still and made there their lodging. Then Sir Pellinore put off his armour;
then a little afore midnight they heard the trotting of an horse. Be ye still, said King Pellinore,
for we shall hear of some adventure.

AND therewith he armed him. So right even afore him there met two knights, the one came froward
Camelot, and the other from the north, and either saluted other. What tidings at Camelot? said
the one. By my head, said the other, there have I been and espied the court of King Arthur,
and there is such a fellowship they may never be broken, and well-nigh all the world holdeth
with Arthur, for there is the flower of chivalry. Now for this cause I am riding into the north,
to tell our chieftains of the fellowship that is withholden with King Arthur. As for that,
said the other knight, I have brought a remedy with me, that is the greatest poison that ever
ye heard speak of, and to Camelot will I with it, for we have a friend right nigh King Arthur,
and well cherished, that shall poison King Arthur; for so he hath promised our chieftains,
and received great gifts for to do it. Beware, said the other knight, of Merlin, for he knoweth
all things by the devil's craft. Therefore will I not let it, said the knight. And so they
departed asunder. Anon after Pellinore made him ready, and his lady, [and] rode toward Camelot;
and as they came by the well there as the wounded knight was and the lady, there he found the
knight, and the lady eaten with lions or wild beasts, all save the head, wherefore he made
great sorrow, and wept passing sore, and said, Alas! her life might I have saved; but I was
so fierce in my quest, therefore I would not abide. Wherefore make ye such dole? said the lady.
I wot not, said Pellinore, but my heart mourneth sore of the death of her, for she was a passing
fair lady and a young. Now, will ye do by mine advice? said the lady, take this knight and
let him be buried in an hermitage, and then take the lady's head and bear it with you unto
Arthur. So King Pellinore took this dead knight on his shoulders, and brought him to the hermitage,
and charged the hermit with the corpse, that service should be done for the soul; and take
his harness for your pain. It shall be done, said the hermit, as I will answer unto God.

CHAPTER XV. How when he was come to Camelot he was sworn upon a book to tell the truth of his
quest.

AND therewith they departed, and came there as the head of the lady lay with a fair yellow
hair that grieved King Pellinore passingly sore when he looked on it, for much he cast his
heart on the visage. And so by noon they came to Camelot; and the king and the queen were passing
fain of his coming to the court. And there he was made to swear upon the Four Evangelists,
to tell the truth of his quest from the one to the other. Ah! Sir Pellinore, said Queen Guenever,
ye were greatly to blame that ye saved not this lady's life. Madam, said Pellinore, ye were
greatly to blame an ye would not save your own life an ye might, but, save your pleasure, I
was so furious in my quest that I would not abide, and that repenteth me, and shall the days
of my life. Truly, said Merlin, ye ought sore to repent it, for that lady was your own daughter
begotten on the lady of the Rule, and that knight that was dead was her love, and should have
wedded her, and he was a right good knight of a young man, and would have proved a good man,
and to this court was he coming, and his name was Sir Miles of the Launds, and a knight came
behind him and slew him with a spear, and his name is Loraine le Savage, a false knight and
a coward; and she for great sorrow and dole slew herself with his sword, and her name was Eleine.
And because ye would not abide and help her, ye shall see your best friend fail you when ye
be in the greatest distress that ever ye were or shall be. And that penance God hath ordained
you for that deed, that he that ye shall most trust to of any man alive, he shall leave you
there ye shall be slain. Me forthinketh, said King Pellinore, that this shall me betide, but
God may fordo well destiny.

Thus, when the quest was done of the white hart, the which followed Sir Gawaine; and the quest
of the brachet, followed of Sir Tor, Pellinore's son; and the quest of the lady that the knight
took away, the which King Pellinore at that time followed; then the king stablished all his
knights, and them that were of lands not rich he gave them lands, and charged them never to
do outrageousity nor murder, and always to flee treason; also, by no means to be cruel, but
to give mercy unto him that asketh mercy, upon pain of forfeiture of their worship and lordship
of King Arthur for evermore; and always to do ladies, damosels, and gentlewomen succour, upon
pain of death.

Explicit the Wedding of King Arthur. Sequitur quartus liber.

SO after these quests of Sir Gawaine, Sir Tor, and King Pellinore, it fell so that Merlin fell
in a dotage on the damosel that King Pellinore brought to court, and she was one of the damosels
of the lake, that hight Nimue. But Merlin would let her have no rest, but always he would be
with her. And ever she made Merlin good cheer till she had learned of him all manner thing
that she desired; and he was assotted upon her, that he might not be from her. So on a time
he told King Arthur that he should not dure long, but for all his crafts he should be put in
the earth quick. And so he told the king many things that should befall, but always he warned
the king to keep well his sword and the scabbard, for he told him how the sword and the scabbard
should be stolen by a woman from him that he most trusted. Also he told King Arthur that he
should miss him,--Yet had ye liefer than all your lands to have me again. Ah, said the king,
since ye know of your adventure, purvey for it, and put away by your crafts that misadventure.
Nay, said Merlin, it will not be; so he departed from the king. And within a while the Damosel
of the Lake departed, and Merlin went with her evermore wheresomever she went. And ofttimes
Merlin would have had her privily away by his subtle crafts; then she made him to swear that
he should never do none enchantment upon her if he would have his will. And so he sware; so
she and Merlin went over the sea unto the land of Benwick, whereas King Ban was king that had
great war against King Claudas, and there Merlin spake with King Ban's wife, a fair lady and
a good, and her name was Elaine, and there he saw young Launcelot. There the queen made great
sorrow for the mortal war that King Claudas made on her lord and on her lands. Take none heaviness,
said Merlin, for this same child within this twenty year shall revenge you on King Claudas,
that all Christendom shall speak of it; and this same child shall be the most man of worship
of the world, and his first name is Galahad, that know I well, said Merlin, and since ye have
confirmed him Launcelot. That is truth, said the queen, his first name was Galahad. O Merlin,
said the queen, shall I live to see my son such a man of prowess? Yea, lady, on my peril ye
shall see it, and live many winters after.

And so, soon after, the lady and Merlin departed, and by the way Merlin showed her many wonders,
and came into Cornwall. And always Merlin lay about the lady to have her maidenhood, and she
was ever passing weary of him, and fain would have been delivered of him, for she was afeard
of him because he was a devil's son, and she could not beskift him by no mean. And so on a
time it happed that Merlin showed to her in a rock whereas was a great wonder, and wrought
by enchantment, that went under a great stone. So by her subtle working she made Merlin to
go under that stone to let her wit of the marvels there; but she wrought so there for him that
he came never out for all the craft he could do. And so she departed and left Merlin.

AND as King Arthur rode to Camelot, and held there a great feast with mirth and joy, so soon
after he returned unto Cardoile, and there came unto Arthur new tidings that the king of Denmark,
and the king of Ireland that was his brother, and the king of the Vale, and the king of Soleise,
and the king of the Isle of Longtains, all these five kings with a great host were entered
into the land of King Arthur, and burnt and slew clean afore them, both cities and castles,
that it was pity to hear. Alas, said Arthur, yet had I never rest one month since I was crowned
king of this land. Now shall I never rest till I meet with those kings in a fair field, that
I make mine avow; for my true liege people shall not be destroyed in my default, go with me
who will, and abide who that will. Then the king let write unto King Pellinore, and prayed
him in all haste to make him ready with such people as he might lightliest rear and hie him
after in all haste. All the barons were privily wroth that the king would depart so suddenly;
but the king by no mean would abide, but made writing unto them that were not there, and bade
them hie after him, such as were not at that time in the court. Then the king came to Queen
Guenever, and said, Lady, make you ready, for ye shall go with me, for I may not long miss
you; ye shall cause me to be the more hardy, what adventure so befall me; I will not wit my
lady to be in no jeopardy. Sir, said she, I am at your commandment, and shall be ready what
time so ye be ready. So on the morn the king and the queen departed with such fellowship as
they had, and came into the north, into a forest beside Humber, and there lodged them. When
the word and tiding came unto the five kings above said, that Arthur was beside Humber in a
forest, there was a knight, brother unto one of the five kings, that gave them this counsel:
Ye know well that Sir Arthur hath the flower of chivalry of the world with him, as it is proved
by the great battle he did with the eleven kings; and therefore hie unto him night and day
till that we be nigh him, for the longer he tarrieth the bigger he is, and we ever the weaker;
and he is so courageous of himself that he is come to the field with little people, and therefore
let us set upon him or day and we shall slay down; of his knights there shall none escape.

UNTO this counsel these five kings assented, and so they passed forth with their host through
North Wales, and came upon Arthur by night, and set upon his host as the king and his knights
were in their pavilions. King Arthur was unarmed, and had laid him to rest with his Queen Guenever.
Sir, said Sir Kay, it is not good we be unarmed. We shall have no need, said Sir Gawaine and
Sir Griflet, that lay in a little pavilion by the king. With that they heard a great noise,
and many cried, Treason, treason! Alas, said King Arthur, we be betrayed! Unto arms, fellows,
then he cried. So they were armed anon at all points. Then came there a wounded knight unto
the king, and said, Sir, save yourself and my lady the queen, for our host is destroyed, and
much people of ours slain. So anon the king and the queen and the three knights took their
horses, and rode toward Humber to pass over it, and the water was so rough that they were afraid
to pass over. Now may ye choose, said King Arthur, whether ye will abide and take the adventure
on this side, for an ye be taken they will slay you. It were me liefer, said the queen, to
die in the water than to fall in your enemies' hands and there be slain.

And as they stood so talking, Sir Kay saw the five kings coming on horseback by themselves
alone, with their spears in their hands even toward them. Lo, said Sir Kay, yonder be the five
kings; let us go to them and match them. That were folly, said Sir Gawaine, for we are but
three and they be five. That is truth, said Sir Griflet. No force, said Sir Kay, I will undertake
for two of them, and then may ye three undertake for the other three. And therewithal, Sir
Kay let his horse run as fast as he might, and struck one of them through the shield and the
body a fathom, that the king fell to the earth stark dead. That saw Sir Gawaine, and ran unto
another king so hard that he smote him through the body. And therewithal King Arthur ran to
another, and smote him through the body with a spear, that he fell to the earth dead Then Sir
Griflet ran unto the fourth king, and gave him such a fall that his neck brake. Anon Sir Kay
ran unto the fifth king, and smote him so hard on the helm that the stroke clave the helm and
the head to the earth. That was well stricken, said King Arthur, and worshipfully hast thou
holden thy promise, therefore I shall honour thee while that I live. And therewithal they set
the queen in a barge into Humber; but always Queen Guenever praised Sir Kay for his deeds,
and said, What lady that ye love, and she love you not again she were greatly to blame; and
among ladies, said the queen, I shall bear your noble fame, for ye spake a great word, and
fulfilled it worshipfully. And therewith the queen departed.

Then the king and the three knights rode into the forest, for there they supposed to hear of
them that were escaped; and there he found the most part of his people, and told them all how
the five kings were dead. And therefore let us hold us together till it be day, and when their
host have espied that their chieftains be slain, they will make such dole that they shall no
more help themselves. And right so as the king said, so it was; for when they found the five
kings dead, they made such dole that they fell from their horses. Therewithal came King Arthur
but with a few people, and slew on the left hand and on the right hand, that well-nigh there
escaped no man, but all were slain to the number thirty thousand. And when the battle was all
ended, the king kneeled down and thanked God meekly. And then he sent for the queen, and soon
she was come, and she made great joy of the overcoming of that battle.

THEREWITHAL came one to King Arthur, and told him that King Pellinore was within three mile
with a great host; and he said, Go unto him, and let him understand how we have sped. So within
a while King Pellinore came with a great host, and saluted the people and the king, and there
was great joy made on every side. Then the king let search how much people of his party there
was slain; and there were found but little past two hundred men slain and eight knights of
the Table Round in their pavilions. Then the king let rear and devise in the same place whereat
the battle was done a fair abbey, and endowed it with great livelihood, and let it call the
Abbey of La Beale Adventure. But when some of them came into their countries, whereof the five
kings were kings, and told them how they were slain, there was made great dole. And all King
Arthur's enemies, as the King of North Wales, and the kings of the North, [when they] wist
of the battle, they were passing heavy. And so the king returned unto Camelot in haste.

And when he was come to Camelot he called King Pellinore unto him, and said, Ye understand
well that we have lost eight knights of the best of the Table Round, and by your advice we
will choose eight again of the best we may find in this court. Sir, said Pellinore, I shall
counsel you after my conceit the best: there are in your court full noble knights both of old
and young; and therefore by mine advice ye shall choose half of the old and half of the young.
Which be the old? said King Arthur. Sir, said King Pellinore, meseemeth that King Uriens that
hath wedded your sister Morgan le Fay, and the King of the Lake, and Sir Hervise de Revel,
a noble knight, and Sir Galagars, the fourth. This is well devised, said King Arthur, and right
so shall it be. Now, which are the four young knights? said Arthur. Sir, said Pellinore, the
first is Sir Gawaine, your nephew, that is as good a knight of his time as any is in this land;
and the second as meseemeth best is Sir Griflet le Fise de Dieu, that is a good knight and
full desirous in arms, and who may see him live he shall prove a good knight; and the third
as meseemeth is well to be one of the knights of the Round Table, Sir Kay the Seneschal, for
many times he hath done full worshipfully, and now at your last battle he did full honourably
for to undertake to slay two kings. By my head, said Arthur, he is best worth to be a knight
of the Round Table of any that ye have rehearsed, an he had done no more prowess in his life days.

NOW, said King Pellinore, I shall put to you two knights, and ye shall choose which is most
worthy, that is Sir Bagdemagus, and Sir Tor, my son. But because Sir Tor is my son I may not
praise him, but else, an he were not my son, I durst say that of his age there is not in this
land a better knight than he is, nor of better conditions and loath to do any wrong, and loath
to take any wrong. By my head, said Arthur, he is a passing good knight as any ye spake of
this day, that wot I well, said the king; for I have seen him proved, but he saith little and
he doth much more, for I know none in all this court an he were as well born on his mother's
side as he is on your side, that is like him of prowess and of might: and therefore I will
have him at this time, and leave Sir Bagdemagus till another time. So when they were so chosen
by the assent of all the barons, so were there found in their sieges every knights' names that
here are rehearsed, and so were they set in their sieges; whereof Sir Bagdemagus was wonderly
wroth, that Sir Tor was advanced afore him, and therefore suddenly he departed from the court,
and took his squire with him, and rode long in a forest till they came to a cross, and there
alighted and said his prayers devoutly. The meanwhile his squire found written upon the cross,
that Bagdemagus should never return unto the court again, till he had won a knight's body of
the Round Table, body for body. So, sir, said the squire, here I find writing of you, therefore
I rede you return again to the court. That shall I never, said Bagdemagus, till men speak of
me great worship, and that I be worthy to be a knight of the Round Table. And so he rode forth,
and there by the way he found a branch of an holy herb that was the sign of the Sangreal, and
no knight found such tokens but he were a good liver.

So, as Sir Bagdemagus rode to see many adventures, it happed him to come to the rock whereas
the Lady of the Lake had put Merlin under the stone, and there he heard him make great dole;
whereof Sir Bagdemagus would have holpen him, and went unto the great stone, and it was so
heavy that an hundred men might not lift it up. When Merlin wist he was there, he bade leave
his labour, for all was in vain, for he might never be holpen but by her that put him there.
And so Bagdemagus departed and did many adventures, and proved after a full good knight, and
came again to the court and was made knight of the Round Table. So on the morn there fell new
tidings and other adventures. What will we do? said King Arthur, we are hard bestead. Then
King Arthur blew the prise and dight the hart.

Then the king looked about the world, and saw afore him in a great water a little ship, all
apparelled with silk down to the water, and the ship came right unto them and landed on the
sands. Then Arthur went to the bank and looked in, and saw none earthly creature therein. Sirs,
said the king, come thence, and let us see what is in this ship. So they went in all three,
and found it richly behanged with cloth of silk. The king thanked them fair. Therewithal they
led the king and his two fellows into a fair chamber, and there was a cloth laid, richly beseen
of all that longed unto a table, and there were they served of all wines and meats that they
could think; of that the king had great marvel, for he fared never better in his life as for
one supper. And so when they had supped at their leisure, King Arthur was led into a chamber,
a richer beseen chamber saw he never none, and so was King Uriens served, and led into such
another chamber, and Sir Accolon was led into the third chamber passing richly and well beseen;
and so they were laid in their beds easily. And anon they fell asleep, and slept marvellously
sore all the night. And on the morrow King Uriens was in Camelot abed in his wife's arms, Morgan
le Fay. And when he awoke he had great marvel, how he came there, for on the even afore he
was two days' journey from Camelot. And when King Arthur awoke he found himself in a dark prison,
hearing about him many complaints of woful knights.

WHAT are ye that so complain? said King Arthur. We be here twenty knights, prisoners, said
they, and some of us have lain here seven year, and some more and some less. For what cause?
said Arthur. We shall tell you, said the knights; this lord of this castle, his name is Sir
Damas, and he is the falsest knight that liveth, and full of treason, and a very coward as
any liveth, and he hath a younger brother, a good knight of prowess, his name is Sir Ontzlake;
and this traitor Damas, the elder brother will give him no part of his livelihood, but as Sir
Ontzlake keepeth thorough prowess of his hands, and so he keepeth from him a full fair manor
and a rich, and therein Sir Ontzlake dwelleth worshipfully, and is well beloved of all people.
And this Sir Damas, our master is as evil beloved, for he is without mercy, and he is a coward,
and great war hath been betwixt them both, but Ontzlake hath ever the better, and ever he proffereth
Sir Damas to fight for the livelihood, body for body, but he will not do; other-else to find
a knight to fight for him. Unto that Sir Damas had granted to find a knight, but he is so evil
beloved and hated, that there is never a knight will fight for him. And when Damas saw this,
that there was never a knight would fight for him, he hath daily lain await with many knights
with him, and taken all the knights in this country to see and espy their adventures, he hath
taken them by force and brought them to his prison. And so he took us separately as we rode
on our adventures, and many good knights have died in this prison for hunger, to the number
of eighteen knights; and if any of us all that here is, or hath been, would have foughten with
his brother Ontzlake, he would have delivered us, but for because this Damas is so false and
so full of treason we would never fight for him to die for it. And we be so lean for hunger
that unnethe we may stand on our feet. God deliver you, for his mercy, said Arthur. Yes, said
the damosel. I am ready, said Arthur, an I had horse and armour. Ye shall lack none, said the
damosel. Meseemeth, damosel, I should have seen you in the court of Arthur. Nay said the damosel,
I came never there, I am the lord's daughter of this castle. Yet was she false, for she was
one of the damosels of Morgan le Fay.

Anon she went unto Sir Damas, and told him how he would do battle for him, and so he sent for
Arthur. And when he came he was well coloured, and well made of his limbs, that all knights
that saw him said it were pity that such a knight should die in prison. So Sir Damas and he
were agreed that he should fight for him upon this covenant, that all other knights should
be delivered; and unto that was Sir Damas sworn unto Arthur, and also to do the battle to the
uttermost. And with that all the twenty knights were brought out of the dark prison into the
hall, and delivered, and so they all abode to see the battle.

CHAPTER VIII. How Accolon found himself by a well, and he took upon him to do battle against
Arthur.

NOW turn we unto Accolon of Gaul, that when he awoke he found himself by a deep well-side,
within half a foot, in great peril of death. And there came out of that fountain a pipe of
silver, and out of that pipe ran water all on high in a stone of marble. When Sir Accolon saw
this, he blessed him and said, Jesus save my lord King Arthur, and King Uriens, for these damosels
in this ship have betrayed us, they were devils and no women; and if I may escape this misadventure,
I shall destroy all where I may find these false damosels that use enchantments. Now I understand
you well, said Accolon, I shall hold that I have promised her now I have the sword: when saw
ye my lady Queen Morgan le Fay? Right late, said the dwarf. Then Accolon took him in his arms
and said, Recommend me unto my lady queen, and tell her all shall be done that I have promised
her, and else I will die for it. Now I suppose, said Accolon, she hath made all these crafts
and enchantments for this battle. Ye may well believe it, said the dwarf. Right so there came
a knight and a lady with six squires, and saluted Accolon, and prayed him for to arise, and
come and rest him at his manor. And so Accolon mounted upon a void horse, and went with the
knight unto a fair manor by a priory, and there he had passing good cheer. When this word came
unto Sir Ontzlake he was passing heavy, for he was wounded a little to-fore through both his
thighs with a spear, and made great dole; but as he was wounded, he would have taken the battle
on hand. So it happed at that time, by the means of Morgan le Fay, Accolon was with Sir Ontzlake
lodged; and when he heard of that battle, and how Ontzlake was wounded, he said that he would
fight for him. Because Morgan le Fay had sent him Excalibur and the sheath for to fight with
the knight on the morn: this was the cause Sir Accolon took the battle on hand. Then Sir Ontzlake
was passing glad, and thanked Sir Accolon with all his heart that he would do so much for him.
And therewithal Sir Ontzlake sent word unto his brother Sir Damas, that he had a knight that
for him should be ready in the field by the hour of prime.

So on the morn Sir Arthur was armed and well horsed, and asked Sir Damas, When shall we to
the field? Sir, said Sir Damas, ye shall hear mass. And so Arthur heard a mass, and when mass
was done there came a squire on a great horse, and asked Sir Damas if his knight were ready,
for our knight is ready in the field. Then Sir Arthur mounted upon horseback, and there were
all the knights and commons of that country; and so by all advices there were chosen twelve
good men of the country for to wait upon the two knights.

CHAPTER IX. Of the battle between King Arthur and Accolon.

AND then they dressed them on both parties of the field, and let their horses run so fast that
either smote other in the midst of the shield with their spear-heads, that both horse and man
went to the earth; and then they started up both, and pulled out their swords. And so they
went eagerly to the battle, and gave many great strokes, but always Arthur's sword bit not
like Accolon's sword; but for the most part, every stroke that Accolon gave he wounded sore
Arthur, that it was marvel he stood, and always his blood fell from him fast.

When Arthur beheld the ground so sore be-bled he was dismayed, and then he deemed treason that
his sword was changed; for his sword bit not steel as it was wont to do, therefore he dreaded
him sore to be dead, for ever him seemed that the sword in Accolon's hand was Excalibur, for
at every stroke that Accolon struck he drew blood on Arthur. Now, knight, said Accolon unto
Arthur, keep thee well from me; but Arthur answered not again, and gave him such a buffet on
the helm that it made him to stoop, nigh falling down to the earth. Then Sir Accolon withdrew
him a little, and came on with Excalibur on high, and smote Sir Arthur such a buffet that he
fell nigh to the earth. Then were they wroth both, and gave each other many sore strokes, but
always Sir Arthur lost so much blood that it was marvel he stood on his feet, but he was so
full of knighthood that knightly he endured the pain. And Sir Accolon lost not a deal of blood,
therefore he waxed passing light, and Sir Arthur was passing feeble, and weened verily to have
died; but for all that he made countenance as though he might endure, and held Accolon as short
as he might. But Accolon was so bold because of Excalibur that he waxed passing hardy. But
all men that beheld him said they saw never knight fight so well as Arthur did considering
the blood that he bled. So was all the people sorry for him, but the two brethren would not
accord. Then always they fought together as fierce knights, and Sir Arthur withdrew him a little
for to rest him, and Sir Accolon called him to battle and said, It is no time for me to suffer
thee to rest. And therewith he came fiercely upon Arthur, and Sir Arthur was wroth for the
blood that he had lost, and smote Accolon on high upon the helm, so mightily, that he made
him nigh to fall to the earth; and therewith Arthur's sword brast at the cross, and fell in
the grass among the blood, and the pommel and the sure handles he held in his hands. When Sir
Arthur saw that, he was in great fear to die, but always he held up his shield and lost no
ground, nor bated no cheer. Well, said Accolon, as for the shame I will not spare, now keep
thee from me, for thou art but a dead man. And therewith Accolon gave him such a stroke that
he fell nigh to the earth, and would have had Arthur to have cried him mercy. But Sir Arthur
pressed unto Accolon with his shield, and gave him with the pommel in his hand such a buffet
that he went three strides aback.

When the Damosel of the Lake beheld Arthur, how full of prowess his body was, and the false
treason that was wrought for him to have had him slain, she had great pity that so good a knight
and such a man of worship should so be destroyed. And at the next stroke Sir Accolon struck
him such a stroke that by the damosel's enchantment the sword Excalibur fell out of Accolon's
hand to the earth. And therewithal Sir Arthur lightly leapt to it, and gat it in his hand,
and forthwithal he knew that it was his sword Excalibur, and said, Thou hast been from me all
too long, and much damage hast thou done me; and therewith he espied the scabbard hanging by
his side, and suddenly he sterte to him and pulled the scabbard from him, and threw it from
him as far as he might throw it. O knight, said Arthur, this day hast thou done me great damage
with this sword; now are ye come unto your death, for I shall not warrant you but ye shall
as well be rewarded with this sword, or ever we depart, as thou hast rewarded me; for much
pain have ye made me to endure, and much blood have I lost. And therewith Sir Arthur rushed
on him with all his might and pulled him to the earth, and then rushed off his helm, and gave
him such a buffet on the head that the blood came out at his ears, his nose, and his mouth.
Now will I slay thee, said Arthur. Slay me ye may well, said Accolon, an it please you, for
ye are the best knight that ever I found, and I see well that God is with you. But for I promised
to do this battle, said Accolon, to the uttermost, and never to be recreant while I lived,
therefore shall I never yield me with my mouth, but God do with my body what he will. Then
Sir Arthur remembered him, and thought he should have seen this knight. Now tell me, said Arthur,
or I will slay thee, of what country art thou, and of what court? Sir Knight, said Sir Accolon,
I am of the court of King Arthur, and my name is Accolon of Gaul. Then was Arthur more dismayed
than he was beforehand; for then he remembered him of his sister Morgan le Fay, and of the
enchantment of the ship. O sir knight, said he, I pray you tell me who gave you this sword,
and by whom ye had it.

THEN Sir Accolon bethought him, and said, Woe worth this sword, for by it have I got my death.
It may well be, said the king. Now, sir, said Accolon, I will tell you; this sword hath been
in my keeping the most part of this twelvemonth; and Morgan le Fay, King Uriens' wife, sent
it me yesterday by a dwarf, to this intent, that I should slay King Arthur, her brother. For
ye shall understand King Arthur is the man in the world that she most hateth, because he is
most of worship and of prowess of any of her blood; also she loveth me out of measure as paramour,
and I her again; and if she might bring about to slay Arthur by her crafts, she would slay
her husband King Uriens lightly, and then had she me devised to be king in this land, and so
to reign, and she to be my queen; but that is now done, said Accolon, for I am sure of my death.
Well, said Sir Arthur, I feel by you ye would have been king in this land. It had been great
damage to have destroyed your lord, said Arthur. It is truth, said Accolon, but now I have
told you truth, wherefore I pray you tell me of whence ye are, and of what court? O Accolon,
said King Arthur, now I let thee wit that I am King Arthur, to whom thou hast done great damage.
When Accolon heard that he cried aloud, Fair, sweet lord, have mercy on me, for I knew not
you. O Sir Accolon, said King Arthur, mercy shalt thou have, because I feel by thy words at
this time thou knewest not my person; but I understand well by thy words that thou hast agreed
to the death of my person, and therefore thou art a traitor; but I wite thee the less, for
my sister Morgan le Fay by her false crafts made thee to agree and consent to her false lusts,
but I shall be sore avenged upon her an I live, that all Christendom shall speak of it; God
knoweth I have honoured her and worshipped her more than all my kin, and more have I trusted
her than mine own wife and all my kin after.

Then Sir Arthur called the keepers of the field, and said, Sirs, come hither, for here are
we two knights that have fought unto a great damage unto us both, and like each one of us to
have slain other, if it had happed so; and had any of us known other, here had been no battle,
nor stroke stricken. Then all aloud cried Accolon unto all the knights and men that were then
there gathered together, and said to them in this manner, O lords, this noble knight that I
have fought withal, the which me sore repenteth, is the most man of prowess, of manhood, and
of worship in the world, for it is himself King Arthur, our alther liege lord, and with mishap
and with misadventure have I done this battle with the king and lord that I am holden withal.

THEN all the people fell down on their knees and cried King Arthur mercy. Mercy shall ye have,
said Arthur: here may ye see what adventures befall ofttime of errant knights, how that I have
fought with a knight of mine own unto my great damage and his both. But, sirs, because I am
sore hurt, and he both, and I had great need of a little rest, ye shall understand the opinion
betwixt you two brethren: As to thee, Sir Damas, for whom I have been champion and won the
field of this knight, yet will I judge because ye, Sir Damas, are called an orgulous knight,
and full of villainy, and not worth of prowess your deeds, therefore I will that ye give unto
your brother all the whole manor with the appurtenance, under this form, that Sir Ontzlake
hold the manor of you, and yearly to give you a palfrey to ride upon, for that will become
you better to ride on than upon a courser. Also I charge thee, Sir Damas, upon pain of death,
that thou never distress no knights errant that ride on their adventure. And also that thou
restore these twenty knights that thou hast long kept prisoners, of all their harness, that
they be content for; and if any of them come to my court and complain of thee, by my head thou
shalt die therefore. Also, Sir Ontzlake, as to you, because ye are named a good knight, and
full of prowess, and true and gentle in all your deeds, this shall be your charge I will give
you, that in all goodly haste ye come unto me and my court, and ye shall be a knight of mine,
and if your deeds be thereafter I shall so prefer you, by the grace of God, that ye shall in
short time be in ease for to live as worshipfully as your brother Sir Damas. God thank your
largeness of your goodness and of your bounty, I shall be from henceforward at all times at
your commandment; for, sir, said Sir Ontzlake, as God would, as I was hurt but late with an
adventurous knight through both my thighs, that grieved me sore, and else had I done this battle
with you. God would, said Arthur, it had been so, for then had not I been hurt as I am. I shall
tell you the cause why: for I had not been hurt as I am, had it not been mine own sword, that
was stolen from me by treason; and this battle was ordained aforehand to have slain me, and
so it was brought to the purpose by false treason, and by false enchantment. Alas, said Sir
Ontzlake, that is great pity that ever so noble a man as ye are of your deeds and prowess,
that any man or woman might find in their hearts to work any treason against you. I shall reward
them, said Arthur, in short time, by the grace of God. Now, tell me, said Arthur, how far am
I from Camelot? Sir, ye are two days' journey therefrom. I would fain be at some place of worship,
said Sir Arthur, that I might rest me. Sir, said Sir Ontzlake, hereby is a rich abbey of your
elders' foundation, of nuns, but three miles hence. So the king took his leave of all the people,
and mounted upon horseback, and Sir Accolon with him. And when they were come to the abbey,
he let fetch leeches and search his wounds and Accolon's both; but Sir Accolon died within
four days, for he had bled so much blood that he might not live, but King Arthur was well recovered.

THE meanwhile Morgan le Fay had weened King Arthur had been dead. So on a day she espied King
Uriens lay in his bed sleeping. Then she called unto her a maiden of her counsel, and said,
Go fetch me my lord's sword, for I saw never better time to slay him than now. O madam, said
the damosel, an ye slay my lord ye can never escape. Care not you, said Morgan le Fay, for
now I see my time in the which it is best to do it, and therefore hie thee fast and fetch me
the sword. Then the damosel departed, and found Sir Uwaine sleeping upon a bed in another chamber,
so she went unto Sir Uwaine, and awaked him, and bade him, Arise, and wait on my lady your
mother, for she will slay the king your father sleeping in his bed, for I go to fetch his sword.
Well, said Sir Uwaine, go on your way, and let me deal. Anon the damosel brought Morgan the
sword with quaking hands, and she lightly took the sword, and pulled it out, and went boldly
unto the bed's side, and awaited how and where she might slay him best. And as she lifted up
the sword to smite, Sir Uwaine leapt unto his mother, and caught her by the hand, and said,
Ah, fiend, what wilt thou do? An thou wert not my mother, with this sword I should smite off
thy head. Ah, said Sir Uwaine, men saith that Merlin was begotten of a devil, but I may say
an earthly devil bare me. O fair son, Uwaine, have mercy upon me, I was tempted with a devil,
wherefore I cry thee mercy; I will never more do so; and save my worship and discover me not.
On this covenant, said Sir Uwaine, I will forgive it you, so ye will never be about to do such
deeds. Nay, son, said she, and that I make you assurance.

THEN came tidings unto Morgan le Fay that Accolon was dead, and his body brought unto the church,
and how King Arthur had his sword again. But when Queen Morgan wist that Accolon was dead,
she was so sorrowful that near her heart to-brast. But because she would not it were known,
outward she kept her countenance, and made no semblant of sorrow. And they answered how he
had laid him in his bed to sleep, for he had had but little rest these three nights. Then she
took the scabbard and went her way on horseback. And then she let throw the scabbard in the
deepest of the water so it sank, for it was heavy of gold and precious stones.

THEN said Morgan, Saw ye Arthur, my brother? Yea, said her knights, right well, and that ye
should have found an we might have stirred from one stead, for by his armyvestal countenance
he would have caused us to have fled. I believe you, said Morgan. Anon after as she rode she
met a knight leading another knight on his horse before him, bound hand and foot, blindfold,
to have drowned him in a fountain. When she saw this knight so bound, she asked him, What will
ye do with that knight? Lady, said he, I will drown him. For what cause? she asked. For I found
him with my wife, and she shall have the same death anon. That were pity, said Morgan le Fay.
Now, what say ye, knight, is it truth that he saith of you? she said to the knight that should
be drowned. Nay truly, madam, he saith not right on me. Of whence be ye, said Morgan le Fay,
and of what country? I am of the court of King Arthur, and my name is Manassen, cousin unto
Accolon of Gaul. Ye say well, said she, and for the love of him ye shall be delivered, and
ye shall have your adversary in the same case ye be in. So Manassen was loosed and the other
knight bound. And anon Manassen unarmed him, and armed himself in his harness, and so mounted
on horseback, and the knight afore him, and so threw him into the fountain and drowned him.
And then he rode unto Morgan again, and asked if she would anything unto King Arthur. Tell
him that I rescued thee, not for the love of him but for the love of Accolon, and tell him
I fear him not while I can make me and them that be with me in likeness of stones; and let
him wit I can do much more when I see my time. Then came Manassen to court and told the king
of his adventure. Well, said the king, she is a kind sister; I shall so be avenged on her an
I live, that all Christendom shall speak of it.

WITH that came the Damosel of the Lake unto the king, and said, Sir, I must speak with you
in privity. Say on, said the king, what ye will. And so the king made it to be put upon her,
and forth withal she fell down dead, and never more spake word after and burnt to coals. So
on the morn they heard their masses in the abbey, and so they rode forth till that they came
to a great forest. Then was Sir Gawaine ware in a valley by a turret [of] twelve fair damosels,
and two knights armed on great horses, and the damosels went to and fro by a tree. And then
was Sir Gawaine ware how there hung a white shield on that tree, and ever as the damosels came
by it they spit upon it, and some threw mire upon the shield.

THEN Sir Gawaine and Sir Uwaine went and saluted them, and asked why they did that despite
to the shield. Sir, said the damosels, we shall tell you. There is a knight in this country
that owneth this white shield, and he is a passing good man of his hands, but he hateth all
ladies and gentlewomen, and therefore we do all this despite to the shield. I shall say you,
said Sir Gawaine, it beseemeth evil a good knight to despise all ladies and gentlewomen, and
peradventure though he hate you he hath some certain cause, and peradventure he loveth in some
other places ladies and gentlewomen, and to be loved again, an he be such a man of prowess
as ye speak of. Now, what is his name? Sir, said they, his name is Marhaus, the king's son
of Ireland. I know him well, said Sir Uwaine, he is a passing good knight as any is alive,
for I saw him once proved at a jousts where many knights were gathered, and that time there
might no man withstand him. Ah! said Sir Gawaine, damosels, methinketh ye are to blame, for
it is to suppose, he that hung that shield there, he will not be long therefrom, and then may
those knights match him on horseback, and that is more your worship than thus; for I will abide
no longer to see a knight's shield dishonoured. And therewith Sir Uwaine and Gawaine departed
a little from them, and then were they ware where Sir Marhaus came riding on a great horse
straight toward them. And when the twelve damosels saw Sir Marhaus they fled into the turret
as they were wild, so that some of them fell by the way. Then the one of the knights of the
tower dressed his shield, and said on high, Sir Marhaus, defend thee. And so they ran together
that the knight brake his spear on Marhaus, and Marhaus smote him so hard that he brake his
neck and the horse's back. That saw the other knight of the turret, and dressed him toward
Marhaus, and they met so eagerly together that the knight of the turret was soon smitten down,
horse and man, stark dead. 

"Mamma," she said, standing on the top rung of a house-ladder, from which position she was handing
down glass out of a cupboard, "are you sure that these things are ours? I think some of them
belong to the house."

"I'm sure about that bowl at any rate, because it was my mother's
before I was married."

"Oh, dear, what should I do if I were to break it? Whenever I handle anything very precious
I always feel inclined to throw it down and smash it. Oh! it was as nearly gone as possible,
mamma; but that was your fault."

"If you don't take care you'll be nearly gone yourself. Do take hold
of something."

"Oh, Bell, here's the inkstand for which you've been moaning for
three years."

"I haven't been moaning for three years; but who could have put it
up there?"

"Catch it," said Lily; and she threw the bottle down on to a pile
of carpets.

At this moment a step was heard in the hall, and the squire entered through the open door of
the room. "So you're all at work," said he.

"Yes, we're at work," said Mrs Dale, almost with a tone of shame. "If it is to be done it is as
well that it should be got over."

"It makes me wretched enough," said the squire. "But I didn't come to talk about that. I've brought
you a note from Lady Julia De Guest, and I've had one from the earl. They want us all to go
there and stay the week after Easter."

Mrs Dale and the girls, when this very sudden proposition was made to them, all remained fixed
in their place, and, for a moment, were speechless. Go and stay a week at Guestwick Manor! The
whole family! Hitherto the intercourse between the Manor and the Small House had been confined
to morning calls, very far between. Mrs Dale had never dined there,
and had latterly even deputed the calling to her daughters. Once Bell
had dined there with her uncle, the squire, and once Lily had gone
over with her uncle Orlando. Even this had been long ago, before they
were quite brought out, and they had regarded the occasion with the
solemn awe of children. Now, at this time of their flitting into some
small mean dwelling at Guestwick, they had previously settled among
themselves that that affair of calling at the Manor might be allowed
to drop. Mrs Eames never called, and they were descending to the level
of Mrs Eames. "Perhaps we shall get game sent to us, and that will
be better," Lily had said. And now, at this very moment of their descent
in life, they were all asked to go and stay a week at the Manor! Stay
a week with Lady Julia! Had the Queen sent the Lord Chamberlain down
to bid them all go to Windsor Castle it could hardly have startled
them more at the first blow. Bell had been seated on the folded carpet
when her uncle had entered, and now had again sat herself in the same
place. Sir knight, said Sir Marhaus, I have well felt that ye are a passing good knight
and a marvellous man of might as ever I felt any, while it lasteth, and our quarrels are not
great, and therefore it were pity to do you hurt, for I feel ye are passing feeble. Ah, said
Sir Gawaine, gentle knight, ye say the word that I should say. And therewith they took off
their helms, and either kissed other, and there they swore together either to love other as
brethren. And Sir Marhaus prayed Sir Gawaine to lodge with him that night. And so they took
their horses, and rode toward Sir Marhaus' house. And as they rode by the way, Sir knight,
said Sir Gawaine, I have marvel that so valiant a man as ye be love no ladies nor damosels.
Sir, said Sir Marhaus, they name me wrongfully those that give me that name, but well I wot
it be the damosels of the turret that so name me, and other such as they be. Now shall I tell
you for what cause I hate them: for they be sorceresses and enchanters many of them, and be
a knight never so good of his body and full of prowess as man may be, they will make him a
stark coward to have the better of him, and this is the principal cause that I hate them; and
to all good ladies and gentlewomen I owe my service as a knight ought to do.

As the book rehearseth in French, there were many knights that overmatched Sir Gawaine, for
all the thrice might that he had: Sir Launcelot de Lake, Sir Tristram, Sir Bors de Ganis, Sir
Percivale, Sir Pelleas, and Sir Marhaus, these six knights had the better of Sir Gawaine. Then
within a little while they came to Sir Marhaus' place, which was in a little priory, and there
they alighted, and ladies and damosels unarmed them, and hastily looked to their hurts, for
they were all three hurt. And so they had all three good lodging with Sir Marhaus, and good
cheer; for when he wist that they were King Arthur's sister's sons he made them all the cheer
that lay in his power, and so they sojourned there a sennight, and were well eased of their
wounds, and at the last departed. Now, said Sir Marhaus, we will not depart so lightly, for
I will bring you through the forest; and rode day by day well a seven days or they found any
adventure. At the last they came into a great forest, that was named the country and forest
of Arroy, and the country of strange adventures. In this country, said Sir Marhaus, came never
knight since it was christened but he found strange adventures; and so they rode, and came
into a deep valley full of stones, and thereby they saw a fair stream of water; above thereby
was the head of the stream a fair fountain, and three damosels sitting thereby. And then they
rode to them, and either saluted other, and the eldest had a garland of gold about her head,
and she was three score winter of age or more, and her hair was white under the garland. The
second damosel was of thirty winter of age, with a circlet of gold about her head. The third
damosel was but fifteen year of age, and a garland of flowers about her head. When these knights
had so beheld them, they asked them the cause why they sat at that fountain? We be here, said
the damosels, for this cause: if we may see any errant knights, to teach them unto strange
adventures; and ye be three knights that seek adventures, and we be three damosels, and therefore
each one of you must choose one of us; and when ye have done so we will lead you unto three
highways, and there each of you shall choose a way and his damosel with him. And this day twelvemonth
ye must meet here again, and God send you your lives, and thereto ye must plight your troth.
This is well said, said Sir Marhaus.

NOW shall everych of us choose a damosel. I shall tell you, said Sir Uwaine, I am the youngest
and most weakest of you both, therefore I will have the eldest damosel, for she hath seen much,
and can best help me when I have need, for I have most need of help of you both. Now, said
Sir Marhaus, I will have the damosel of thirty winter age, for she falleth best to me. Well,
said Sir Gawaine, I thank you, for ye have left me the youngest and the fairest, and she is
most liefest to me. Then every damosel took her knight by the reins of his bridle, and brought
him to the three ways, and there was their oath made to meet at the fountain that day twelvemonth
an they were living, and so they kissed and departed, and each knight set his lady behind him.
And Sir Uwaine took the way that lay west, and Sir Marhaus took the way that lay south, and
Sir Gawaine took the way that lay north. Now will we begin at Sir Gawaine, that held that way
till that he came unto a fair manor, where dwelled an old knight and a good householder, and
there Sir Gawaine asked the knight if he knew any adventures in that country. I shall show
you some to-morn, said the old knight, and that marvellous. So, on the morn they rode into
the forest of adventures to a laund, and thereby they found a cross, and as they stood and
hoved there came by them the fairest knight and the seemliest man that ever they saw, making
the greatest dole that ever man made. And then he was ware of Sir Gawaine, and saluted him,
and prayed God to send him much worship. As to that, said Sir Gawaine, gramercy; also I pray
to God that he send you honour and worship. Ah, said the knight, I may lay that aside, for
sorrow and shame cometh to me after worship.

CHAPTER XX. How a knight and a dwarf strove for a lady.

AND therewith he passed unto the one side of the laund; and on the other side saw Sir Gawaine
ten knights that hoved still and made them ready with their shields and spears against that
one knight that came by Sir Gawaine.

Then this one knight aventred a great spear, and one of the ten knights encountered with him,
but this woful knight smote him so hard that he fell over his horse's tail. So this same dolorous
knight served them all, that at the leastway he smote down horse and man, and all he did with
one spear; and so when they were all ten on foot, they went to that one knight, and he stood
stone still, and suffered them to pull him down off his horse, and bound him hand and foot,
and tied him under the horse's belly, and so led him with them. O Jesu! said Sir Gawaine, this
is a doleful sight, to see the yonder knight so to be entreated, and it seemeth by the knight
that he suffereth them to bind him so, for he maketh no resistance. No, said his host, that
is truth, for an he would they all were too weak so to do him. Sir, said the damosel unto Sir
Gawaine, meseemeth it were your worship to help that dolorous knight, for methinketh he is
one of the best knights that ever I saw. I would do for him, said Sir Gawaine, but it seemeth
he will have no help. Then, said the damosel, methinketh ye have no lust to help him.

Thus as they talked they saw a knight on the other side of the laund all armed save the head.
And on the other side there came a dwarf on horseback all armed save the head, with a great
mouth and a short nose; and when the dwarf came nigh he said, Where is the lady should meet
us here? and therewithal she came forth out of the wood. And then they began to strive for
the lady; for the knight said he would have her, and the dwarf said he would have her. Will
we do well? said the dwarf; yonder is a knight at the cross, let us put it both upon him, and
as he deemeth so shall it be. I will well, said the knight, and so they went all three unto
Sir Gawaine and told him wherefore they strove. Well, sirs, said he, will ye put the matter
in my hand? Yea, they said both. Now damosel, said Sir Gawaine, ye shall stand betwixt them
both, and whether ye list better to go to, he shall have you. And when she was set between
them both, she left the knight and went to the dwarf, and the dwarf took her and went his way
singing, and the knight went his way with great mourning.

Then came there two knights all armed, and cried on high, Sir Gawaine! knight of King Arthur's,
make thee ready in all haste and joust with me. So they ran together, that either fell down,
and then on foot they drew their swords, and did full actually. The meanwhile the other knight
went to the damosel, and asked her why she abode with that knight, and if ye would abide with
me, I will be your faithful knight. And with you will I be, said the damosel, for with Sir
Gawaine I may not find in mine heart to be with him; for now here was one knight discomfited
ten knights, and at the last he was cowardly led away; and therefore let us two go whilst they
fight. And Sir Gawaine fought with that other knight long, but at the last they accorded both.
And then the knight prayed Sir Gawaine to lodge with him that night. So as Sir Gawaine went
with this knight he asked him, What knight is he in this country that smote down the ten knights?
For when he had done so manfully he suffered them to bind him hand and foot, and so led him
away. Ah, said the knight, that is the best knight I trow in the world, and the most man of
prowess, and he hath been served so as he was even more than ten times, and his name hight
Sir Pelleas, and he loveth a great lady in this country and her name is Ettard. And so when
he loved her there was cried in this country a great jousts three days, and all the knights
of this country were there and gentlewomen, and who that proved him the best knight should
have a passing good sword and a circlet of gold, and the circlet the knight should give it
to the fairest lady that was at the jousts. And this knight Sir Pelleas was the best knight
that was there, and there were five hundred knights, but there was never man that ever Sir
Pelleas met withal but he struck him down, or else from his horse; and every day of three days
he struck down twenty knights, therefore they gave him the prize, and forthwithal he went thereas
the Lady Ettard was, and gave her the circlet, and said openly she was the fairest lady that
there was, and that would he prove upon any knight that would say nay.

AND so he chose her for his sovereign lady, and never to love other but her, but she was so
proud that she had scorn of him, and said that she would never love him though he would die
for her. Wherefore all ladies and gentlewomen had scorn of her that she was so proud, for there
were fairer than she, and there was none that was there but an Sir Pelleas would have proffered
them love, they would have loved him for his noble prowess. And so this knight promised the
Lady Ettard to follow her into this country, and never to leave her till she loved him. And
thus he is here the most part nigh her, and lodged by a priory, and every week she sendeth
knights to fight with him. And when he hath put them to the worse, then will he suffer them
wilfully to take him prisoner, because he would have a sight of this lady. And always she doth
him great despite, for sometime she maketh her knights to tie him to his horse's tail, and
some to bind him under the horse's belly; thus in the most shamefullest ways that she can think
he is brought to her. And all she doth it for to cause him to leave this country, and to leave
his loving; but all this cannot make him to leave, for an he would have fought on foot he might
have had the better of the ten knights as well on foot as on horseback. Alas, said Sir Gawaine,
it is great pity of him; and after this night I will seek him to-morrow, in this forest, to
do him all the help I can. So on the morn Sir Gawaine took his leave of his host Sir Carados,
and rode into the forest; and at the last he met with Sir Pelleas, making great moan out of
measure, so each of them saluted other, and asked him why he made such sorrow. And as it is
above rehearsed, Sir Pelleas told Sir Gawaine: But always I suffer her knights to fare so with
me as ye saw yesterday, in trust at the last to win her love, for she knoweth well all her
knights should not lightly win me, an me list to fight with them to the uttermost. Wherefore
an I loved her not so sore, I had liefer die an hundred times, an I might die so oft, rather
than I would suffer that despite; but I trust she will have pity upon me at the last, for love
causeth many a good knight to suffer to have his entent, but alas I am unfortunate. And therewith
he made so great dole and sorrow that unnethe he might hold him on horseback.

Now, said Sir Gawaine, leave your mourning and I shall promise you by the faith of my body
to do all that lieth in my power to get you the love of your lady, and thereto I will plight
you my troth. Ah, said Sir Pelleas, of what court are ye? tell me, I pray you, my good friend.
And then Sir Gawaine said, I am of the court of King Arthur, and his sister's son, and King
Lot of Orkney was my father, and my name is Sir Gawaine. And then he said, My name is Sir Pelleas,
born in the Isles, and of many isles I am lord, and never have I loved lady nor damosel till
now in an unhappy time; and, sir knight, since ye are so nigh cousin unto King Arthur, and
a king's son, therefore betray me not but help me, for I may never come by her but by some
good knight, for she is in a strong castle here, fast by within this four mile, and over all
this country she is lady of. And so I may never come to her presence, but as I suffer her knights
to take me, and but if I did so that I might have a sight of her, I had been dead long or this
time; and yet fair word had I never of her, but when I am brought to-fore her she rebuketh
me in the foulest manner. And then they take my horse and harness and put me out of the gates,
and she will not suffer me to eat nor drink; and always I offer me to be her prisoner, but
that she will not suffer me, for I would desire no more, what pains so ever I had, so that
I might have a sight of her daily. Well, said Sir Gawaine, all this shall I amend an ye will
do as I shall devise: I will have your horse and your armour, and so will I ride unto her castle
and tell her that I have slain you, and so shall I come within her to cause her to cherish
me, and then shall I do my true part that ye shall not fail to have the love of her.

AND therewith Sir Gawaine plight his troth unto Sir Pelleas to be true and faithful unto him;
so each one plight their troth to other, and so they changed horses and harness, and Sir Gawaine
departed, and came to the castle whereas stood the pavilions of this lady without the gate.
And as soon as Ettard had espied Sir Gawaine she fled in toward the castle. Sir Gawaine spake
on high, and bade her abide, for he was not Sir Pelleas; I am another knight that have slain
Sir Pelleas. Do off your helm, said the Lady Ettard, that I may see your visage. And so when
she saw that it was not Sir Pelleas, she bade him alight and led him unto her castle, and asked
him faithfully whether he had slain Sir Pelleas. And he said her yea, and told her his name
was Sir Gawaine of the court of King Arthur, and his sister's son. Truly, said she, that is
great pity, for he was a passing good knight of his body, but of all men alive I hated him
most, for I could never be quit of him; and for ye have slain him I shall be your woman, and
to do anything that might please you. So she made Sir Gawaine good cheer. Then Sir Gawaine
said that he loved a lady and by no means she would love him. She is to blame, said Ettard,
an she will not love you, for ye that be so well born a man, and such a man of prowess, there
is no lady in the world too good for you. Will ye, said Sir Gawaine, promise me to do all that
ye may, by the faith of your body, to get me the love of my lady? Yea, sir, said she, and that
I promise you by the faith of my body. Now, said Sir Gawaine, it is yourself that I love so
well, therefore I pray you hold your promise. I may not choose, said the Lady Ettard, but if
I should be forsworn; and so she granted him to fulfil all his desire.

So it was then in the month of May that she and Sir Gawaine went out of the castle and supped
in a pavilion, and there was made a bed, and there Sir Gawaine and the Lady Ettard went to
bed together, and in another pavilion she laid her damosels, and in the third pavilion she
laid part of her knights, for then she had no dread of Sir Pelleas. And there Sir Gawaine lay
with her in that pavilion two days and two nights. And on the third day, in the morning early,
Sir Pelleas armed him, for he had never slept since Sir Gawaine departed from him; for Sir
Gawaine had promised him by the faith of his body, to come to him unto his pavilion by that
priory within the space of a day and a night.

Then Sir Pelleas mounted upon horseback, and came to the pavilions that stood without the castle,
and found in the first pavilion three knights in three beds, and three squires lying at their
feet. Then went he to the second pavilion and found four gentlewomen lying in four beds. And
then he yede to the third pavilion and found Sir Gawaine lying in bed with his Lady Ettard,
and either clipping other in arms, and when he saw that his heart well-nigh brast for sorrow,
and said: Alas! that ever a knight should be found so false; and then he took his horse and
might not abide no longer for pure sorrow. And when he had ridden nigh half a mile he turned
again and thought to slay them both; and when he saw them both so lie sleeping fast, unnethe
he might hold him on horseback for sorrow, and said thus to himself, Though this knight be
never so false, I will never slay him sleeping, for I will never destroy the high order of
knighthood; and therewith he departed again. And or he had ridden half a mile he returned again,
and thought then to slay them both, making the greatest sorrow that ever man made. And when
he came to the pavilions, he tied his horse unto a tree, and pulled out his sword naked in
his hand, and went to them thereas they lay, and yet he thought it were shame to slay them
sleeping, and laid the naked sword overthwart both their throats, and so took his horse and
rode his way.

And when Sir Pelleas came to his pavilions he told his knights and his squires how he had sped,
and said thus to them, For your true and good service ye have done me I shall give you all
my goods, for I will go unto my bed and never arise until I am dead. And when that I am dead
I charge you that ye take the heart out of my body and bear it her betwixt two silver dishes,
and tell her how I saw her lie with the false knight Sir Gawaine. Right so Sir Pelleas unarmed
himself, and went unto his bed making marvellous dole and sorrow.

When Sir Gawaine and Ettard awoke of their sleep, and found the naked sword overthwart their
throats, then she knew well it was Sir Pelleas' sword. Alas! said she to Sir Gawaine, ye have
betrayed me and Sir Pelleas both, for ye told me ye had slain him, and now I know well it is
not so, he is alive. And if Sir Pelleas had been as uncourteous to you as ye have been to him
ye had been a dead knight; but ye have deceived me and betrayed me falsely, that all ladies
and damosels may beware by you and me. And therewith Sir Gawaine made him ready, and went into
the forest. So it happed then that the Damosel of the Lake, Nimue, met with a knight of Sir
Pelleas, that went on his foot in the forest making great dole, and she asked him the cause.
And so the woful knight told her how his master and lord was betrayed through a knight and
lady, and how he will never arise out of his bed till he be dead. Bring me to him, said she
anon, and I will warrant his life he shall not die for love, and she that hath caused him so
to love, she shall be in as evil plight as he is or it be long to, for it is no joy of such
a proud lady that will have no mercy of such a valiant knight. Anon that knight brought her
unto him, and when she saw him lie in his bed, she thought she saw never so likely a knight;
and therewith she threw an enchantment upon him, and he fell asleep. And therewhile she rode
unto the Lady Ettard, and charged no man to awake him till she came again. So within two hours
she brought the Lady Ettard thither, and both ladies found him asleep: Lo, said the Damosel
of the Lake, ye ought to be ashamed for to murder such a knight. And therewith she threw such
an enchantment upon her that she loved him sore, that well-nigh she was out of her mind. O
Lord Jesu, said the Lady Ettard, how is it befallen unto me that I love now him that I have
most hated of any man alive? That is the righteous judgment of God, said the damosel. And then
anon Sir Pelleas awaked and looked upon Ettard; and when he saw her he knew her, and then he
hated her more than any woman alive, and said: Away, traitress, come never in my sight. And
when she heard him say so, she wept and made great sorrow out of measure.

SIR KNIGHT PELLEAS, said the Damosel of the Lake, take your horse and come forth with me out
of this country, and ye shall love a lady that shall love you. This is why there are so few with
whom you care to become more intimate, and why you should avoid familiarity with vulgar people.
If a man comes to think that I am more dependent upon him than he is upon me, he at once feels
as though I had stolen something from him; and his endeavor will be to have his vengeance and
get it back. The only way to attain superiority in dealing with men, is to let it be seen that
you are independent of them.

And in this view it is advisable to let everyone of your acquaintance-- whether
man or woman-- feel now and then that you could very well dispense
with their company.

This will consolidate friendship. Nay, with most people there will be no harm in occasionally
mixing a grain of disdain with your treatment of them; that will make them value your friendship
all the more. Chi non istima vien stimato, as a subtle Italian proverb has it-- to disregard
is to win regard. But if we really think very highly of a person, we should conceal it from
him like a crime. This is not a very gratifying thing to do, but it is right. Why, a dog will
not bear being treated too kindly, let alone a man!

SECTION 29. It is often the case that people of noble character and great mental gifts betray
a strange lack of worldly wisdom and a deficiency in the knowledge of men, more especially when
they are young; with the result that it is easy to deceive or mislead them; and that, on the
other hand, natures of the commoner sort are more ready and successful in making their way
in the world.

The reason of this is that, when a man has little or no experience, he must judge by his own antecedent
notions; and in matters demanding judgment, an antecedent notion is never on the same level
as experience. For, with the commoner sort of people, an antecedent notion means just their
own selfish point of view. This is not the case with those whose mind and character are above
the ordinary; for it is precisely in this respect-- their unselfishness-- that they differ from
the rest of mankind; and as they judge other people's thoughts and actions by their own high standard,
the result does not always tally with their calculation.

But if, in the end, a man of noble character comes to see, as the effect of his own experience,
or by the lessons he learns from others, what it is that may be expected of men in general,-- namely,
that five-sixths of them are morally and intellectually so constituted that, if circumstances do
not place you in relation with them, you had better get out of their way and keep as far as
possible from having anything to do with them,-- still, he will scarcely ever attain an adequate
notion of their wretchedly mean and shabby nature: all his life long he will have to be extending
and adding to the inferior estimate he forms of them; and in the meantime he will commit a great
many mistakes and do himself harm.

Then, again, after he has really taken to heart the lessons that have been taught him, it will
occasionally happen that, when he is in the society of people whom he does not know, he will be surprised
to find how thoroughly reasonable they all appear to be, both in their conversation and in their
demeanor-- in fact, quite honest, sincere, virtuous and trustworthy people, and at the same time
shrewd and clever.

But that ought not to perplex him. Nature is not like those bad poets, who, in setting a fool
or a knave before us, do their work so clumsily, and with such evident design, that you might
almost fancy you saw the poet standing behind each of his characters, and continually disavowing
their sentiments, and telling you in a tone of warning: This is a knave; that is a fool; do not
mind what he says. But Nature goes to work like Shakespeare and Goethe, poets who make every
one of their characters-- even if it is the devil himself!-- appear to be quite in the right for
the moment that they come before us in their several parts; the characters are described so
objectively that they excite our interest and compel us to sympathize with their point of view;
for, like the works of Nature, every one of these characters is evolved as the result of some
hidden law or principle, which makes all they say and do appear natural and therefore necessary.
And you will always be the prey or the plaything of the devils and
fools in this world, if you expect to see them going about with horns
or jangling their bells.

And it should be borne in mind that, in their intercourse with others, people are like the
moon, or like hunchbacks; they show you only one of their sides. Every man has an innate talent for
mimicry,-- for making a mask out of his physiognomy, so that he can always look as if he really
were what he pretends to be; and since he makes his calculations always within the lines of
his individual nature, the appearance he puts on suits him to a nicety, and its effect is extremely
deceptive. He dons his mask whenever his object is to flatter himself into some one's good opinion;
and you may pay just as much attention to it as if it were made of wax or cardboard, never
forgetting that excellent Italian proverb: non é si tristo cane che non meni la coda,-- there
is no dog so bad but that he will wag his tail.

In any case it is well to take care not to form a highly favorable opinion of a person whose
acquaintance you have only recently made, for otherwise you are very likely to be disappointed;
and then you will be ashamed of yourself and perhaps even suffer some injury. And while I am on
the subject, there is another fact that deserves mention. It is this. A man shows his character
just in the way in which he deals with trifles,-- for then he is off his guard. This will often
afford a good opportunity of observing the boundless egoism of man's
nature, and his total lack of consideration for others; and if these
defects show themselves in small things, or merely in his general
demeanor, you will find that they also underlie his action in matters
of importance, although he may disguise the fact.

This is an opportunity which should not be missed. If in the little affairs of every day,-- the
trifles of life, those matters to which the rule de minimis non applies,-- a man is inconsiderate
and seeks only what is advantageous or convenient to himself, to the prejudice of others'rights;
if he appropriates to himself that which belongs to all alike, you may be sure there is no justice
in his heart, and that he would be a scoundrel on a wholesale scale, only that law and compulsion
bind his hands. Do not trust him beyond your door. He who is not afraid to break the laws of
his own private circle, will break those of the State when he can
do so with impunity.

If the average man were so constituted that the good in him outweighed the bad, it would be
more advisable to rely upon his sense of justice, fairness, gratitude, fidelity, love or compassion,
than to work upon his fears; but as the contrary is the case, and it is the bad that outweighs
the good, the opposite course is the more prudent one.

If any person with whom we are associated or have to do, exhibits
unpleasant or annoying qualities, we have only to ask ourselves whether
or not this person is of so much value to us that we can put up with
frequent and repeated exhibitions of the same qualities in a somewhat
aggravated form. [1] In case of an affirmative answer to this question,
there will not be much to be said, because talking is very little
use.

We must let the matter pass, with or without some notice; but we should nevertheless remember
that we are thereby exposing ourselves to a repetition of the offence. If the answer is in the
negative, we must break with our worthy friend at once and forever; or in the case of a servant, dismiss
him. For he will inevitably repeat the offence, or do something tantamount to it, should the
occasion return, even though for the moment he is deep and sincere in his assurances of the
contrary. There is nothing, absolutely nothing, that a man cannot forget,-- but not himself, his
own character. For character is incorrigible; because all a man's actions emanate from an inward
principle, in virtue of which he must always do the same thing under like circumstances; and
he cannot do otherwise. Let me refer to my prize essay on the so-called Freedom of the Will,
the perusal of which will dissipate any delusions the reader may
have on this subject.

[Footnote 1: To forgive and forget means to throw away dearly bought
experience.] To become reconciled to a friend with whom you have broken,
is a form of weakness; and you pay the penalty of it when he takes
the first opportunity of doing precisely the very thing which brought
about the breach; nay, he does it the more boldly, because he is secretly
conscious that you cannot get on without him.

This is also applicable to servants whom you have dismissed, and then taken into your service
again. For the same reason, you should just as little expect people to continue to act in a
similar way under altered circumstances. The truth is that men alter their demeanor and sentiments
just as fast as their interest changes; and their resign in this respect is a bill drawn for short
payment that the man must be still more short-sighted who accepts
the bill without protesting it.

Accordingly, suppose you want to know how a man will behave in an office into which you think
of putting him; you should not build upon expectations, on his promises or assurances. For,
even allowing that he is quite sincere, he is speaking about a matter of which he has no knowledge.
The only way to calculate how he will behave, is to consider the circumstances in which he will be
placed, and the extent to which they will conflict with his character.

If you wish to get a clear and profound insight-- and it is very needful--
into the true but melancholy elements of which most men are made, you
will find in a very instructive thing to take the way they behave
in the pages of literature as a commentary to their doings in practical
life, and vice versa.

The experience thus gained will be very useful in avoiding wrong ideas, whether about yourself or about
others. But if you come across any special trait of meanness or stupidity-- in life or in literature,--
you must be careful not to let it annoy or distress you, but to look
upon it merely as an addition to your knowledge-- a new fact to be
considered in studying the character of humanity.

Your attitude towards it will be that of the mineralogist who stumbles upon a very characteristic
specimen of a mineral. Of course there are some facts which are very exceptional, and it is
difficult to understand how they arise, and how it is that there come to be such enormous differences
between man and man; but, in general, what was said long ago is quite true, and the world is
in a very bad way. In savage countries they eat one another, in civilized they deceive one another;
and that is what people call the way of the world! What are States and all the elaborate systems
of political machinery, and the rule of force, whether in home or in foreign affairs,-- what
are they but barriers against the boundless iniquity of mankind? Does not all history show that
whenever a king is firmly planted on a throne, and his people reach
some degree of prosperity, he uses it to lead his army, like a band
of robbers, against adjoining countries?

Are not almost all wars ultimately undertaken for purposes of plunder? In the most remote antiquity,
and to some extent also in the Middle Ages, the conquered became slaves,-- in other words,
they had to work for those who conquered them; and where is the difference between that and paying
war-taxes, which represent the product of our previous work? All war, says Voltaire, is a
matter of robbery; and the Germans should take that as a warning. SECTION 30. No man is so formed
that he can be left entirely to himself, to go his own ways; everyone needs to be guided by
a preconceived plan, and to follow certain general rules. But if this is carried too far, and a
man tries to take on a character which is not natural or innate in him, but it artificially acquired
and evolved merely by a process of reasoning, he will very soon discover
that Nature cannot be forced, and that if you drive it out, it will
return despite your efforts:-- Naturam expelles furca, tamen usque
recurret.

To understand a rule governing conduct towards others, even to discover it for oneself and to express
it neatly, is easy enough; and still, very soon afterwards, the rule may be broken in practice.
But that is no reason for despair; and you need not fancy that as it is impossible to regulate
your life in accordance with abstract ideas and maxims, it is better
to live just as you please.

Here, as in all theoretical instruction that aims at a practical
result, the first thing to do is to understand the rule; the second
thing is to learn the practice of it.

The theory
may be understand at once by an effort of reason, and yet the practice of it acquired only in
course of time. A pupil may lean the various notes on an instrument of music, or the different
position in fencing; and when he makes a mistake, as he is sure to do, however hard he tries,
he is apt to think it will be impossible to observe the rules, when he is set to read music
at sight or challenged to a furious duel. But for all that, gradual
practice makes him perfect, through a long series of slips, blunders
and fresh efforts.

It is just the same
in other things; in learning to write and speak Latin, a man will
forget the grammatical rules; it is only by long practice that a blockhead
turns into a courtier, that a passionate man becomes shrewd and worldly-wise,
or a frank person reserved, or a noble person ironical.

But though self-discipline of this kind is the result of long habit, it always works by a sort
of external compulsion, which Nature never ceases to resist and sometimes unexpectedly overcomes. The difference
between action in accordance with abstract principles, and action as the result of original, innate
tendency, is the same as that between a work of art, say a watch-- where form and movement are impressed
upon shapeless and inert matter-- and a living organism, where form and matter are one, and
each is inseparable from the other. There is a maxim attributed to the Emperor Napoleon, which
expresses this relation between acquired and innate character, and confirms what I have said: everything
that is unnatural is imperfect;-- a rule of universal application,
whether in the physical or in the moral sphere.

The only exception I can think of to this rule is aventurine, [1] a substance known to mineralogists,
which in its natural state cannot compare with the artificial preparation of it. [Footnote
1: Translator's Note. Aventurine is a rare kind of quartz; and the same name is given to a brownish-colored
glass much resembling it, which is manufactured at Murano.

It is so called from the fact that the glass was discovered by chance (arventura).] And in this
connection let me utter a word of protest against any and every form of affectation. It always
arouses contempt; in the first place, because it argues deception, and the deception is cowardly,
for it is based on fear; and, secondly, it argues self-condemnation, because it means that a man
is trying to appear what he is not, and therefore something which he things better than he actually
is. To affect a quality, and to plume yourself upon it, is just to confess that you have not got it.
Whether it is courage, or learning, or intellect, or wit, or success with women, or riches, or
social position, or whatever else it may be that a man boasts of, you may conclude by his boasting
about it that that is precisely the direction in which he is rather weak;
for if a man really possesses any faculty to the full, it will not
occur to him to make a great show of affecting it; he is quite content
to know that he has it.

That is the application of the Spanish proverb: herradura que chacolotea clavo le falta-- a clattering
hoof means a nail gone. To be sure, as I said at first, no man ought to let the reins go quite loose,
and show himself just as he is; for there are many evil and bestial sides to our nature which require
to be hidden away out of sight; and this justifies the negative attitude of dissimulation, but
it does not justify a positive feigning of qualities which are not
there.

It should also be remembered that affectation is recognized at once, even before it is clear what
it is that is being affected. And, finally, affectation cannot last very
long, and one day the mask will fall off.

Nemo potest personam diu ferre fictam, says Seneca; [1] ficta cito
in naturam suam recidunt-- no one can persevere long in a fictitious
character; for nature will soon reassert itself.

[Footnote 1: De Clementia, I. 1.] SECTION 31. A man bears the weight of his own body without knowing
it, but he soon feels the weight of any other, if he tries to move it; in the same way, a man
can see other people's shortcoming's and vices, but he is blind to his own. This arrangement
has one advantage: it turns other people into a kind of mirror, in which a man can see clearly
everything that is vicious, faulty, ill-bred and loathsome in his own nature; only, it is generally
the old story of the dog barking at is own image; it is himself that he sees and not another dog,
as he fancies. He who criticises others, works at the reformation of himself. Those who form
the secret habit of scrutinizing other people's general behavior, and passing severe judgment
upon what they do and leave undone, thereby improve themselves, and
work out their own perfection: for they will have sufficient sense
of justice, or at any rate enough pride and vanity, to avoid in their
own case that which they condemn so harshly elsewhere.

But tolerant people are just the opposite, and claim for themselves the same indulgence that
they extend to others-- hanc veniam damus petimusque vicissim. It is all very well for the Bible
to talk about the mote in another's eye and the beam in one's own. The nature of the eye is
to look not at itself but at other things; and therefore to observe and blame faults in another is
a very suitable way of becoming conscious of one's own. We require a looking-glass for the due
dressing of our morals. The same rule applies in the case of style and fine writing. If, instead
of condemning, you applaud some new folly in these matters, you will imitate it. That is just why literary
follies have such vogue in Germany. The Germans are a very tolerant people-- everybody can
see that! Their maxim is-- Hanc veniam damns petimusque vicissim. SECTION 32. When he is young, a
man of noble character fancies that the relations prevailing amongst
mankind, and the alliances to which these relations lead, are at bottom
and essentially, ideal in their nature; that is to say, that they
rest upon similarity of disposition or sentiment, or taste, or intellectual
power, and so on. O Sir, said one of the senators,
let be such vain words, for we let you wit that I and my fellows were full sore afeard to behold
his countenance; I fear me ye have made a rod for yourself, for he intendeth to be lord of
this empire, which sore is to be doubted if he come, for he is all another man than ye ween,
and holdeth the most noble court of the world, all other kings nor princes may not compare
unto his noble maintenance. Well, said Lucius, before Easter I suppose to pass the mountains,
and so forth into France, and there bereave him his lands with Genoese and other mighty warriors
of Tuscany and Lombardy. And I shall send for them all that be subjects and allied to the empire
of Rome to come to mine aid. And forthwith sent old wise knights unto these countries following:
first to Ambage and Arrage, to Alexandria, to India, to Armenia, whereas the river of Euphrates
runneth into Asia, to Africa, and Europe the Large, to Ertayne and Elamye, to Araby, Egypt,
and to Damascus, to Damietta and Cayer, to Cappadocia, to Tarsus, Turkey, Pontus and Pamphylia,
to Syria and Galatia. And all these were subject to Rome and many more, as Greece, Cyprus,
Macedonia, Calabria, Cateland, Portugal, with many thousands of Spaniards. Thus all these kings,
dukes, and admirals, assembled about Rome, with sixteen kings at once, with great multitude
of people. When the emperor understood their coming he made ready his Romans and all the people
between him and Flanders.

Also he had gotten with him fifty giants which had been engendered of fiends; and they were
ordained to guard his person, and to break the front of the battle of King Arthur. And thus
departed from Rome, and came down the mountains for to destroy the lands that Arthur had conquered,
and came unto Cologne, and besieged a castle thereby, and won it soon, and stuffed it with
two hundred Saracens or Infidels, and after destroyed many fair countries which Arthur had
won of King Claudas. And thus Lucius came with all his host, which were disperplyd sixty mile
in breadth, and commanded them to meet with him in Burgoyne, for he purposed to destroy the
realm of Little Britain.

NOW leave we of Lucius the Emperor and speak we of King Arthur, that commanded all them of
his retinue to be ready at the utas of Hilary for to hold a parliament at York. And at that
parliament was concluded to arrest all the navy of the land, and to be ready within fifteen
days at Sandwich, and there he showed to his army how he purposed to conquer the empire which
he ought to have of right. And there he ordained two governors of this realm, that is to say,
Sir Baudwin of Britain, for to counsel to the best, and Sir Constantine, son to Sir Cador of
Cornwall, which after the death of Arthur was king of this realm. And in the presence of all
his lords he resigned the rule of the realm and Guenever his queen to them, wherefore Sir Launcelot
was wroth, for he left Sir Tristram with King Mark for the love of Beale Isould. Then the Queen
Guenever made great sorrow for the departing of her lord and other, and swooned in such wise
that the ladies bare her into her chamber. Thus the king with his great army departed, leaving
the queen and realm in the governance of Sir Baudwin and Constantine. And when he was on his
horse he said with an high voice, If I die in this journey I will that Sir Constantine be mine
heir and king crowned of this realm as next of my blood. And after departed and entered into
the sea at Sandwich with all his army, with a great multitude of ships, galleys, cogs, and
dromounds, sailing on the sea.

AND as the king lay in his cabin in the ship, he fell in a slumbering and dreamed a marvellous
dream: him seemed that a dreadful dragon did drown much of his people, and he came flying out
of the west, and his head was enamelled with azure, and his shoulders shone as gold, his belly
like mails of a marvellous hue, his tail full of tatters, his feet full of fine sable, and
his claws like fine gold; and an hideous flame of fire flew out of his mouth, like as the land
and water had flamed all of fire. After, him seemed there came out of the orient, a grimly
boar all black in a cloud, and his paws as big as a post; he was rugged looking roughly, he
was the foulest beast that ever man saw, he roared and romed so hideously that it were marvel
to hear. Then the dreadful dragon advanced him and came in the wind like a falcon giving great
strokes on the boar, and the boar hit him again with his grizzly tusks that his breast was
all bloody, and that the hot blood made all the sea red of his blood. Then the dragon flew
away all on an height, and came down with such a swough, and smote the boar on the ridge, which
was ten foot large from the head to the tail, and smote the boar all to powder both flesh and
bones, that it flittered all abroad on the sea.

And therewith the king awoke anon, and was sore abashed of this dream, and sent anon for a
wise philosopher, commanding to tell him the signification of his dream. Sir, said the philosopher,
the dragon that thou dreamedst of betokeneth thine own person that sailest here, and the colours
of his wings be thy realms that thou hast won, and his tail which is all to-tattered signifieth
the noble knights of the Round Table; and the boar that the dragon slew coming from the clouds
betokeneth some tyrant that tormenteth the people, or else thou art like to fight with some
giant thyself, being horrible and abominable, whose peer ye saw never in your days, wherefore
of this dreadful dream doubt thee nothing, but as a conqueror come forth thyself.

Then after this soon they had sight of land, and sailed till they arrived at Barflete in Flanders,
and when they were there he found many of his great lords ready, as they had been commanded
to wait upon him.

THEN came to him an husbandman of the country, and told him how there was in the country of
Constantine beside Brittany, a great giant which had slain, murdered and devoured much people
of the country, and had been sustained seven year with the children of the commons of that
land, insomuch that all the children be all slain and destroyed; and now late he hath taken
the Duchess of Brittany as she rode with her meiny, and hath led her to his lodging which is
in a mountain, for to ravish and lie by her to her life's end, and many people followed her,
more than five hundred, but all they might not rescue her, but they left her shrieking and
crying lamentably, wherefore I suppose that he hath slain her in fulfilling his foul lust of
lechery. She was wife unto thy cousin Sir Howell, whom we call full nigh of thy blood. Now,
as thou art a rightful king, have pity on this lady, and revenge us all as thou art a noble
conqueror. Alas, said King Arthur, this is a great mischief, I had liefer than the best realm
that I have that I had been a furlong way to-fore him for to have rescued that lady. Now, fellow,
said King Arthur, canst thou bring me thereas this giant haunteth?

Then he called to him Sir Kay and Sir Bedivere, and commanded them secretly to make ready horse
and harness for himself and them twain; for after evensong he would ride on pilgrimage with
them two only unto Saint Michael's mount. And then anon he made him ready, and armed him at
all points, and took his horse and his shield. And so they three departed thence and rode forth
as fast as ever they might till that they came to the foreland of that mount. Fie on such treaties,
said she, he setteth not by the king nor by no man else; but an if thou have brought Arthur's
wife, dame Guenever, he shall be gladder than thou hadst given to him half France. Beware,
approach him not too nigh, for he hath vanquished fifteen kings, and hath made him a coat full
of precious stones embroidered with their beards, which they sent him to have his love for
salvation of their people at this last Christmas. And if thou wilt, speak with him at yonder
great fire at supper.

When King Arthur beheld that piteous sight he had great compassion on them, so that his heart
bled for sorrow, and hailed him, saying in this wise: He that all the world wieldeth give thee
short life and shameful death; and the devil have thy soul; why hast thou murdered these young
innocent children, and murdered this duchess? Therefore, arise and dress thee, thou glutton,
for this day shalt thou die of my hand. Then the glutton anon started up, and took a great
club in his hand, and smote at the king that his coronal fell to the earth. And the king hit
him again that he carved his belly and cut off his genitours, that his guts and his entrails
fell down to the ground. And then Arthur weltered and wrung, that he was other while under
and another time above. And so weltering and wallowing they rolled down the hill till they
came to the sea mark, and ever as they so weltered Arthur smote him with his dagger. This was
the fiercest giant that ever I met with, save one in the mount of Araby, which I overcame,
but this was greater and fiercer. Then the knights fetched the club and the kirtle, and some
of the treasure they took to themselves, and returned again to the host. And anon this was
known through all the country, wherefore the people came and thanked the king. And he said
again, Give the thanks to God, and depart the goods among you.

And after that King Arthur said and commanded his cousin Howell, that he should ordain for
a church to be builded on the same hill in the worship of Saint Michael. And on the morn the
king removed with his great battle, and came into Champayne and in a valley, and there they
pight their tents; and the king being set at his dinner, there came in two messengers, of whom
that one was Marshal of France, and said to the king that the emperor was entered into France,
and had destroyed a great part, and was in Burgoyne, and had destroyed and made great slaughter
of people, and burnt towns and boroughs; wherefore, if thou come not hastily, they must yield
up their bodies and goods.

THEN the king did do call Sir Gawaine, Sir Bors, Sir Lionel, and Sir Bedivere, and commanded
them to go straight to Sir Lucius, and say ye to him that hastily he remove out of my land;
and if he will not, bid him make him ready to battle and not distress the poor people. Then
anon these noble knights dressed them to horseback, and when they came to the green wood, they
saw many pavilions set in a meadow, of silk of divers colours, beside a river, and the emperor's
pavilion was in the middle with an eagle displayed above. To the which tent our knights rode
toward, and ordained Sir Gawaine and Sir Bors to do the message, and left in a bushment Sir
Lionel and Sir Bedivere. And then Sir Gawaine and Sir Bors did their message, and commanded
Lucius, in Arthur's name to avoid his land, or shortly to address him to battle. To whom Lucius
answered and said, Ye shall return to your lord, and say ye to him that I shall subdue him
and all his lands. Then Sir Gawaine was wroth and said, I had liefer than all France fight
against thee; and so had I, said Sir Bors, liefer than all Brittany or Burgoyne.

Then a knight named Sir Gainus, nigh cousin to the emperor, said, Lo, how these Britons be
full of pride and boast, and they brag as though they bare up all the world. Then Sir Gawaine
was sore grieved with these words, and pulled out his sword and smote off his head. And therewith
turned their horses and rode over waters and through woods till they came to their bushment,
whereas Sir Lionel and Sir Bedivere were hoving. The Romans followed fast after, on horseback
and on foot, over a champaign unto a wood; then Sir Bors turned his horse and saw a knight
come fast on, whom he smote through the body with a spear that he fell dead down to the earth;
then came Caliburn one of the strongest of Pavie, and smote down many of Arthur's knights.
And when Sir Bors saw him do so much harm, he addressed toward him, and smote him through the
breast, that he fell down dead to the earth. Then Sir Feldenak thought to revenge the death
of Gainus upon Sir Gawaine, but Sir Gawaine was ware thereof, and smote him on the head, which
stroke stinted not till it came to his breast. And then he returned and came to his fellows
in the bushment. And there was a recounter, for the bushment brake on the Romans, and slew
and hew down the Romans, and forced the Romans to flee and return, whom the noble knights chased
unto their tents.

Then the Romans gathered more people, and also footmen came on, and there was a new battle,
and so much people that Sir Bors and Sir Berel were taken. But when Sir Gawaine saw that, he
took with him Sir Idrus the good knight, and said he would never see King Arthur but if he
rescued them, and pulled out Galatine his good sword, and followed them that led those two
knights away; and he smote him that led Sir Bors, and took Sir Bors from him and delivered
him to his fellows. And Sir Idrus in likewise rescued Sir Berel. Then began the battle to be
great, that our knights were in great jeopardy, wherefore Sir Gawaine sent to King Arthur for
succour, and that he hie him, for I am sore wounded, and that our prisoners may pay goods out
of number. And the messenger came to the king and told him his message. And anon the king did
do assemble his army, but anon, or he departed the prisoners were come, and Sir Gawaine and
his fellows gat the field and put the Romans to flight, and after returned and came with their
fellowship in such wise that no man of worship was lost of them, save that Sir Gawaine was
sore hurt. Then the king did do ransack his wounds and comforted him. And thus was the beginning
of the first journey of the Britons and Romans, and there were slain of the Romans more than
ten thousand, and great joy and mirth was made that night in the host of King Arthur. And on
the morn he sent all the prisoners into Paris under the guard of Sir Launcelot, with many knights,
and of Sir Cador.

NOW turn we to the Emperor of Rome, which espied that these prisoners should be sent to Paris,
and anon he sent to lie in a bushment certain knights and princes with sixty thousand men,
for to rescue his knights and lords that were prisoners. And so on the morn as Launcelot and
Sir Cador, chieftains and governors of all them that conveyed the prisoners, as they should
pass through a wood, Sir Launcelot sent certain knights to espy if any were in the woods to
let them. And when the said knights came into the wood, anon they espied and saw the great
embushment, and returned and told Sir Launcelot that there lay in await for them three score
thousand Romans. And then Sir Launcelot with such knights as he had, and men of war to the
number of ten thousand, put them in array, and met with them and fought with them manly, and
slew and detrenched many of the Romans, and slew many knights and admirals of the party of
the Romans and Saracens; there was slain the king of Lyly and three great lords, Aladuke, Herawd,
and Heringdale. But Sir Launcelot fought so nobly that no man might endure a stroke of his
hand, but where he came he showed his prowess and might, for he slew down right on every side;
and the Romans and Saracens fled from him as the sheep from the wolf or from the lion, and
put them, all that abode alive, to flight.

And so long they fought that tidings came to King Arthur, and anon he graithed him and came
to the battle, and saw his knights how they had vanquished the battle, he embraced them knight
by knight in his arms, and said, Ye be worthy to wield all your honour and worship; there was
never king save myself that had so noble knights. Sir, said Cador, there was none of us failed
other, but of the prowess and manhood of Sir Launcelot were more than wonder to tell, and also
of his cousins which did that day many noble feats of war. And also Sir Cador told who of his
knights were slain, as Sir Berel, and other Sir Moris and Sir Maurel, two good knights. Then
the king wept, and dried his eyes with a kerchief, and said, Your courage had near-hand destroyed
you, for though ye had returned again, ye had lost no worship; for I call it folly, knights
to abide when they be overmatched. Nay, said Launcelot and the other, for once shamed may never
be recovered.

NOW leave we King Arthur and his noble knights which had won the field, and had brought their
prisoners to Paris, and speak we of a senator which escaped from the battle, and came to Lucius
the emperor, and said to him, Sir emperor, I advise thee for to withdraw thee; what dost thou
here? thou shalt win nothing in these marches but great strokes out of all measure, for this
day one of Arthur's knights was worth in the battle an hundred of ours. Fie on thee, said Lucius,
thou speakest cowardly; for thy words grieve me more than all the loss that I had this day.
And anon he sent forth a king, which hight Sir Leomie, with a great army, and bade him hie
him fast to-fore, and he would follow hastily after. King Arthur was warned privily, and sent
his people to Sessoine, and took up the towns and castles from the Romans. Then the king commanded
Sir Cador to take the rearward, and to take with him certain knights of the Round Table, and
Sir Launcelot, Sir Bors, Sir Kay, Sir Marrok, with Sir Marhaus, shall await on our person.
Thus the King Arthur disperpled his host in divers parties, to the end that his enemies should
not escape.

When the emperor was entered into the vale of Sessoine, he might see where King Arthur was
embattled and his banner displayed; and he was beset round about with his enemies, that needs
he must fight or yield him, for he might not flee, but said openly unto the Romans, Sirs, I
admonish you that this day ye fight and acquit you as men, and remember how Rome domineth and
is chief and head over all the earth and universal world, and suffer not these Britons this
day to abide against us; and therewith he did command his trumpets to blow the bloody sounds,
in such wise that the ground trembled and dindled.

Then the battles approached and shoved and shouted on both sides, and great strokes were smitten
on both sides, many men overthrown, hurt, and slain; and great valiances, prowesses and appertices
of war were that day showed, which were over long to recount the noble feats of every man,
for they should contain an whole volume. But in especial, King Arthur rode in the battle exhorting
his knights to do well, and himself did as nobly with his hands as was possible a man to do;
he drew out Excalibur his sword, and awaited ever whereas the Romans were thickest and most
grieved his people, and anon he addressed him on that part, and hew and slew down right, and
rescued his people; and he slew a great giant named Galapas, which was a man of an huge quantity
and height, he shorted him and smote off both his legs by the knees, saying, Now art thou better
of a size to deal with than thou were, and after smote off his head. There Sir Gawaine fought
nobly and slew three admirals in that battle. And so did all the knights of the Round Table.
Thus the battle between King Arthur and Lucius the Emperor endured long. Lucius had on his
side many Saracens which were slain. And thus the battle was great, and oftsides that one party
was at a fordeal and anon at an afterdeal, which endured so long till at the last King Arthur
espied where Lucius the Emperor fought, and did wonder with his own hands. And anon he rode
to him. And either smote other fiercely, and at last Lucius smote Arthur thwart the visage,
and gave him a large wound. And when King Arthur felt himself hurt, anon he smote him again
with Excalibur that it cleft his head, from the summit of his head, and stinted not till it
came to his breast. And then the emperor fell down dead and there ended his life.

And when it was known that the emperor was slain, anon all the Romans with all their host put
them to flight, and King Arthur with all his knights followed the chase, and slew down right
all them that they might attain. And thus was the victory given to King Arthur, and the triumph;
and there were slain on the part of Lucius more than an hundred thousand. And after King Arthur
did do ransack the dead bodies, and did do bury them that were slain of his retinue, every
man according to the estate and degree that he was of. And them that were hurt he let the surgeons
do search their hurts and wounds, and commanded to spare no salves nor medicines till they
were whole.

Then the king rode straight to the place where the Emperor Lucius lay dead, and with him he
found slain the Soudan of Syria, the King of Egypt and of Ethiopia, which were two noble kings,
with seventeen other kings of divers regions, and also sixty senators of Rome, all noble men,
whom the king did do balm and gum with many good gums aromatic, and after did do cere them
in sixty fold of cered cloth of sendal, and laid them in chests of lead, because they should
not chafe nor savour, and upon all these bodies their shields with their arms and banners were
set, to the end they should be known of what country they were. And after he found three senators
which were alive, to whom he said, For to save your lives I will that ye take these dead bodies,
and carry them with you unto great Rome, and present them to the Potestate on my behalf, shewing
him my letters, and tell them that I in my person shall hastily be at Rome. And I suppose the
Romans shall beware how they shall demand any tribute of me. And I command you to say when
ye shall come to Rome, to the Potestate and all the Council and Senate, that I send to them
these dead bodies for the tribute that they have demanded. And if they be not content with
these, I shall pay more at my coming, for other tribute owe I none, nor none other will I pay.
And methinketh this sufficeth for Britain, Ireland and all Almaine with Germany. And furthermore,
I charge you to say to them, that I command them upon pain of their heads never to demand tribute
nor tax of me nor of my lands. Then with this charge and commandment, the three senators aforesaid
departed with all the said dead bodies, laying the body of Lucius in a car covered with the
arms of the Empire all alone; and after alway two bodies of kings in a chariot, and then the
bodies of the senators after them, and so went toward Rome, and showed their legation and message
to the Potestate and Senate, recounting the battle done in France, and how the field was lost
and much people and innumerable slain. Wherefore they advised them in no wise to move no more
war against that noble conqueror Arthur, for his might and prowess is most to be doubted, seen
the noble kings and great multitude of knights of the Round Table, to whom none earthly prince
may compare.

NOW turn we unto King Arthur and his noble knights, which, after the great battle achieved
against the Romans, entered into Lorraine, Brabant and Flanders, and sithen returned into Haut
Almaine, and so over the mountains into Lombardy, and after, into Tuscany wherein was a city
which in no wise would yield themself nor obey, wherefore King Arthur besieged it, and lay
long about it, and gave many assaults to the city; and they within defended them valiantly.
Then, on a time, the king called Sir Florence, a knight, and said to him they lacked victual,
And not far from hence be great forests and woods, wherein be many of mine enemies with much
bestial: I will that thou make thee ready and go thither in foraying, and take with thee Sir
Gawaine my nephew, Sir Wisshard, Sir Clegis, Sir Cleremond, and the Captain of Cardiff with
other, and bring with you all the beasts that ye there can get.

And anon these knights made them ready, and rode over holts and hills, through forests and
woods, till they came into a fair meadow full of fair flowers and grass; and there they rested
them and their horses all that night. And in the springing of the day in the next morn, Sir
Gawaine took his horse and stole away from his fellowship, to seek some adventures. And anon
he was ware of a man armed, walking his horse easily by a wood's side, and his shield laced
to his shoulder, sitting on a strong courser, without any man saving a page bearing a mighty
spear. The knight bare in his shield three griffins of gold, in sable carbuncle, the chief
of silver. When Sir Gawaine espied this gay knight, he feutred his spear, and rode straight
to him, and demanded of him from whence that he was. That other answered and said he was of
Tuscany, and demanded of Sir Gawaine, What, profferest thou, proud knight, thee so boldly?
here gettest thou no prey, thou mayest prove what thou wilt, for thou shalt be my prisoner
or thou depart. Then said Gawaine, thou avauntest thee greatly and speakest proud words, I
counsel thee for all thy boast that thou make thee ready, and take thy gear to thee, to-fore
greater grame fall to thee.

CHAPTER X. Of a battle done by Sir Gawaine against a Saracen, which after was yielden and became
Christian.

THEN they took their spears and ran each at other with all the might they had, and smote each
other through their shields into their shoulders, wherefore anon they pulled out their swords,
and smote great strokes that the fire sprang out of their helms. Then Sir Gawaine was all abashed,
and with Galatine his good sword he smote through shield and thick hauberk made of thick mails,
and all to-rushed and break the precious stones, and made him a large wound, that men might
see both liver and lung. Then groaned that knight, and addressed him to Sir Gawaine, and with
an awk stroke gave him a great wound and cut a vein, which grieved Gawaine sore, and he bled
sore. Then the knight said to Sir Gawaine, bind thy wound or thy blee[ding] change, for thou
be-bleedest all thy horse and thy fair arms, for all the barbers of Brittany shall not con
staunch thy blood, for whosomever is hurt with this blade he shall never be staunched of bleeding.
Then answered Gawaine, it grieveth me but little, thy great words shall not fear me nor lessen
my courage, but thou shalt suffer teen and sorrow or we depart, but tell me in haste who may
staunch my bleeding. That may I do, said the knight, if I will, and so will I if thou wilt
succour and aid me, that I may be christened and believe on God, and thereof I require thee
of thy manhood, and it shall be great merit for thy soul. I grant, said Gawaine, so God help
me, to accomplish all thy desire, but first tell me what thou soughtest here thus alone, and
of what land and liegiance thou art of. Sir, he said, my name is Priamus, and a great prince
is my father, and he hath been rebel unto Rome and overridden many of their lands. My father
is lineally descended of Alexander and of Hector by right line. And Duke Joshua and Maccabaeus
were of our lineage. I am right inheritor of Alexandria and Africa, and all the out isles,
yet will I believe on thy Lord that thou believest on; and for thy labour I shall give thee
treasure enough. I was so elate and hauteyn in my heart that I thought no man my peer, nor
to me semblable. I was sent into this war with seven score knights, and now I have encountered
with thee, which hast given to me of fighting my fill, wherefore sir knight, I pray thee to
tell me what thou art. I am no knight, said Gawaine, I have been brought up in the guardrobe
with the noble King Arthur many years, for to take heed to his armour and his other array,
and to point his paltocks that long to himself. At Yule last he made me yeoman, and gave to
me horse and harness, and an hundred pound in money; and if fortune be my friend, I doubt not
but to be well advanced and holpen by my liege lord. Ah, said Priamus, if his knaves be so
keen and fierce, his knights be passing good: now for the King's love of Heaven, whether thou
be a knave or a knight, tell thou me thy name. By God, said Sir Gawaine, now I will say thee
sooth, my name is Sir Gawaine, and known I am in his court and in his chamber, and one of the
knights of the Round Table, he dubbed me a duke with his own hand. Therefore grudge not if
this grace is to me fortuned, it is the goodness of God that lent to me my strength. Now am
I better pleased, said Priamus, than thou hadst given to me all the Provence and Paris the
rich. I had liefer to have been torn with wild horses, than any varlet had won such loos, or
any page or priker should have had prize on me. But now sir knight I warn thee that hereby
is a Duke of Lorraine with his army, and the noblest men of Dolphiny, and lords of Lombardy,
with the garrison of Godard, and Saracens of Southland, y-numbered sixty thousand of good men
of arms; wherefore but if we hie us hence, it will harm us both, for we be sore hurt, never
like to recover; but take heed to my page, that he no horn blow, for if he do, there be hoving
here fast by an hundred knights awaiting on my person, and if they take thee, there shall no
ransom of gold nor silver acquit thee.

Then Sir Gawaine rode over a water for to save him, and the knight followed him, and so rode
forth till they came to his fellows which were in the meadow, where they had been all the night.
Anon as Sir Wisshard was ware of Sir Gawaine and saw that he was hurt, he ran to him sorrowfully
weeping, and demanded of him who had so hurt him; and Gawaine told how he had foughten with
that man, and each of them had hurt other, and how he had salves to heal them; but I can tell
you other tidings, that soon we shall have ado with many enemies.

Then Sir Priamus and Sir Gawaine alighted, and let their horses graze in the meadow, and unarmed
them, and then the blood ran freshly from their wounds. And Priamus took from his page a vial
full of the four waters that came out of Paradise, and with certain balm anointed their wounds,
and washed them with that water, and within an hour after they were both as whole as ever they
were. And then with a trumpet were they all assembled to council, and there Priamus told unto
them what lords and knights had sworn to rescue him, and that without fail they should be assailed
with many thousands, wherefore he counselled them to withdraw them. Then Sir Gawaine said,
it were great shame to them to avoid without any strokes; Wherefore I advise to take our arms
and to make us ready to meet with these Saracens and misbelieving men, and with the help of
God we shall overthrow them and have a fair day on them. And Sir Florence shall abide still
in this field to keep the stale as a noble knight, and we shall not forsake yonder fellows.
Now, said Priamus, cease your words, for I warn you ye shall find in yonder woods many perilous
knights; they will put forth beasts to call you on, they be out of number, and ye are not past
seven hundred, which be over few to fight with so many. Nevertheless, said Sir Gawaine, we
shall once encounter them, and see what they can do, and the best shall have the victory.

THEN Sir Florence called to him Sir Floridas, with an hundred knights, and drove forth the
herd of beasts. Then followed him seven hundred men of arms; and Sir Ferant of Spain on a fair
steed came springing out of the woods, and came to Sir Florence and asked him why he fled.
Then Sir Florence took his spear and rode against him, and smote him in the forehead and brake
his neck bone. Then all the other were moved, and thought to avenge the death of Sir Ferant,
and smote in among them, and there was great fight, and many slain and laid down to ground,
and Sir Florence with his hundred knights alway kept the stale, and fought manly.

Then when Priamus the good knight perceived the great fight, he went to Sir Gawaine, and bade
him that he should go and succour his fellowship, which were sore bestead with their enemies.
Sir, grieve you not, said Sir Gawaine, for their gree shall be theirs. I shall not once move
my horse to them ward, but if I see more than there be; for they be strong enough to match them.

And with that he saw an earl called Sir Ethelwold and the duke of Dutchmen, came leaping out
of a wood with many thousands, and Priamus' knights, and came straight unto the battle. Then
Sir Gawaine comforted his knights, and bade them not to be abashed, for all shall be ours.
Then they began to wallop and met with their enemies, there were men slain and overthrown on
every side. Then thrust in among them the knights of the Table Round, and smote down to the
earth all them that withstood them, in so much that they made them to recoil and flee. By God,
said Sir Gawaine, this gladdeth my heart, for now be they less in number by twenty thousand.
Then entered into the battle Jubance a giant, and fought and slew down right, and distressed
many of our knights, among whom was slain Sir Gherard, a knight of Wales. Then our knights
took heart to them, and slew many Saracens. And then came in Sir Priamus with his pennon, and
rode with the knights of the Round Table, and fought so manfully that many of their enemies
lost their lives. And there Sir Priamus slew the Marquis of Moises land, and Sir Gawaine with
his fellows so quit them that they had the field, but in that stour was Sir Chestelaine, a
child and ward of Sir Gawaine slain, wherefore was much sorrow made, and his death was soon
avenged. Thus was the battle ended, and many lords of Lombardy and Saracens left dead in the field.

Then Sir Florence and Sir Gawaine harboured surely their people, and took great plenty of bestial,
of gold and silver, and great treasure and riches, and returned unto King Arthur, which lay
still at the siege. And when they came to the king they presented their prisoners and recounted
their adventures, and how they had vanquished their enemies.

NOW thanked be God, said the noble King Arthur. But what manner man is he that standeth by
himself, him seemeth no prisoner. Sir, said Gawaine, this is a good man of arms, he hath matched
me, but he is yielden unto God, and to me, for to become Christian; had not he have been we
should never have returned, wherefore I pray you that he may be baptised, for there liveth
not a nobler man nor better knight of his hands. Then the king let him anon be christened,
and did do call him his first name Priamus, and made him a duke and knight of the Table Round.
And then anon the king let do cry assault to the city, and there was rearing of ladders, breaking
of walls, and the ditch filled, that men with little pain might enter into the city. Then came
out a duchess, and Clarisin the countess, with many ladies and damosels, and kneeling before
King Arthur, required him for the love of God to receive the city, and not to take it by assault,
for then should many guiltless be slain. Then the king avaled his visor with a meek and noble
countenance, and said, Madam, there shall none of my subjects misdo you nor your maidens, nor
to none that to you belong, but the duke shall abide my judgment. Then anon the king commanded
to leave the assault, and anon the duke's oldest son brought out the keys, and kneeling delivered
them to the king, and besought him of grace; and the king seized the town by assent of his
lords, and took the duke and sent him to Dover, there for to abide prisoner term of his life,
and assigned certain rents for the dower of the duchess and for her children.

Then he made lords to rule those lands, and laws as a lord ought to do in his own country;
and after he took his journey toward Rome, and sent Sir Floris and Sir Floridas to-fore, with
five hundred men of arms, and they came to the city of Urbino and laid there a bushment, thereas
them seemed most best for them, and rode to-fore the town, where anon issued out much people
and skirmished with the fore-riders. Then brake out the bushment and won the bridge, and after
the town, and set upon the walls the king's banner. Then came the king upon an hill, and saw
the city and his banner on the walls, by which he knew that the city was won. And anon he sent
and commanded that none of his liege men should defoul nor lie by no lady, wife nor maid; and
when he came into the city, he passed to the castle, and comforted them that were in sorrow,
and ordained there a captain, a knight of his own country.

And when they of Milan heard that thilk city was won, they sent to King Arthur great sums of
money, and besought him as their lord to have pity on them, promising to be his subjects for
ever, and yield to him homage and fealty for the lands of Pleasance and Pavia, Petersaint,
and the Port of Tremble, and to give him yearly a million of gold all his lifetime. Then he
rideth into Tuscany, and winneth towns and castles, and wasted all in his way that to him will
not obey, and so to Spolute and Viterbe, and from thence he rode into the Vale of Vicecount
among the vines. And from thence he sent to the senators, to wit whether they would know him
for their lord. But soon after on a Saturday came unto King Arthur all the senators that were
left alive, and the noblest cardinals that then dwelt in Rome, and prayed him of peace, and
proferred him full large, and besought him as governor to give licence for six weeks for to
assemble all the Romans, and then to crown him emperor with chrism as it belongeth to so high
estate. I assent, said the king, like as ye have devised, and at Christmas there to be crowned,
and to hold my Round Table with my knights as me liketh. And then the senators made ready for
his enthronization. And at the day appointed, as the romance telleth, he came into Rome, and
was crowned emperor by the pope's hand, with all the royalty that could be made, and sojourned
there a time, and established all his lands from Rome into France, and gave lands and realms
unto his servants and knights, to everych after his desert, in such wise that none complained,
rich nor poor. And he gave to Sir Priamus the duchy of Lorraine; and he thanked him, and said
he would serve him the days of his life; and after made dukes and earls, and made every man
rich. Then said the king, Ye say truth, and for to tempt God it is no wisdom, and therefore
make you ready and return we into England. Then there was trussing of harness and baggage and
great carriage. And after licence given, he returned and commanded that no man in pain of death
should not rob nor take victual, nor other thing by the way but that he should pay therefore.
And thus he came over the sea and landed at Sandwich, against whom Queen Guenever his wife
came and met him, and he was nobly received of all his commons in every city and burgh, and
great gifts presented to him at his home-coming to welcome him with.

Thus endeth the fifth book of the conquest that King Arthur had against Lucius the Emperor
of Rome, and here followeth the sixth book, which is of Sir Launcelot du Lake. It is well said,
fair brother, said Sir Launcelot, for this eight year I was not so sleepy as I am now; and
so they there alighted and tied their horses unto sundry trees, and so Sir Launcelot laid him
down under an appletree, and his helm he laid under his head. And Sir Lionel waked while he
slept. So Sir Launcelot was asleep passing fast.

And in the meanwhile there came three knights riding, as fast fleeing as ever they might ride.
And there followed them three but one knight. And when Sir Lionel saw him, him thought he saw
never so great a knight, nor so well faring a man, neither so well apparelled unto all rights.
So within a while this strong knight had overtaken one of these knights, and there he smote
him to the cold earth that he lay still. And then he rode unto the second knight, and smote
him so that man and horse fell down. And then straight to the third knight he rode, and smote
him behind his horse's arse a spear length. And then he alighted down and reined his horse
on the bridle, and bound all the three knights fast with the reins of their own bridles. When
Sir Lionel saw him do thus, he thought to assay him, and made him ready, and stilly and privily
he took his horse, and thought not for to awake Sir Launcelot. And when he came there he gart
unarm them, and beat them with thorns all naked, and after put them in a deep prison where
were many more knights, that made great dolour.

WHEN Sir Ector de Maris wist that Sir Launcelot was passed out of the court to seek adventures,
he was wroth with himself, and made him ready to seek Sir Launcelot, and as he had ridden long
in a great forest he met with a man was like a forester. Fair fellow, said Sir Ector, knowest
thou in this country any adventures that be here nigh hand? Sir, said the forester, this country
know I well, and hereby, within this mile, is a strong manor, and well dyked, and by that manor,
on the left hand, there is a fair ford for horses to drink of, and over that ford there groweth
a fair tree, and thereon hang many fair shields that wielded sometime good knights, and at
the hole of the tree hangeth a basin of copper and latten, and strike upon that basin with
the butt of thy spear thrice, and soon after thou shalt hear new tidings, and else hast thou
the fairest grace that many a year had ever knight that passed through this forest. Gramercy,
said Sir Ector, and departed and came to the tree, and saw many fair shields. And among them
he saw his brother's shield, Sir Lionel, and many more that he knew that were his fellows of
the Round Table, the which grieved his heart, and promised to revenge his brother.

Then anon Sir Ector beat on the basin as he were wood, and then he gave his horse drink at
the ford, and there came a knight behind him and bade him come out of the water and make him
ready; and Sir Ector anon turned him shortly, and in feuter cast his spear, and smote the other
knight a great buffet that his horse turned twice about. This was well done, said the strong
knight, and knightly thou hast stricken me; and therewith he rushed his horse on Sir Ector,
and cleight him under his right arm, and bare him clean out of the saddle, and rode with him
away into his own hall, and threw him down in midst of the floor. The name of this knight was
Sir Turquine. Then he said unto Sir Ector, For thou hast done this day more unto me than any
knight did these twelve years, now will I grant thee thy life, so thou wilt be sworn to be
my prisoner all thy life days. Nay, said Sir Ector, that will I never promise thee, but that
I will do mine advantage. That me repenteth, said Sir Turquine. And then he gart to unarm him,
and beat him with thorns all naked, and sithen put him down in a deep dungeon, where he knew
many of his fellows. But when Sir Ector saw Sir Lionel, then made he great sorrow. Alas, brother,
said Sir Ector, where is my brother Sir Launcelot? Fair brother, I left him asleep when that
I from him yode, under an apple-tree, and what is become of him I cannot tell you.

NOW leave we these knights prisoners, and speak we of Sir Launcelot du Lake that lieth under
the apple-tree sleeping. We shall not strive, said Morgan le Fay, that was King Arthur's sister,
I shall put an enchantment upon him that he shall not awake in six hours, and then I will lead
him away unto my castle, and when he is surely within my hold, I shall take the enchantment
from him, and then let him choose which of us he will have unto paramour. By that the enchantment
was past, and when she came she saluted him, and asked him what cheer. I cannot say, fair damosel,
said Sir Launcelot, for I wot not how I came into this castle but it be by an enchantment.
Sir, said she, ye must make good cheer, and if ye be such a knight as it is said ye be, I shall
tell you more to-morn by prime of the day. Gramercy, fair damosel, said Sir Launcelot, of your
good will I require you. And so she departed. And there he lay all that night without comfort
of anybody. And on the morn early came these four queens, passingly well beseen, all they bidding
him good morn, and he them again. I am the Queen Morgan le Fay, queen of the land of Gore,
and here is the queen of Northgalis, and the queen of Eastland, and the queen of the Out Isles;
now choose one of us which thou wilt have to thy paramour, for thou mayest not choose or else
in this prison to die. This is an hard case, said Sir Launcelot, that either I must die or
else choose one of you, yet had I liefer to die in this prison with worship, than to have one
of you to my paramour maugre my head. And therefore ye be answered, I will none of you, for
ye be false enchantresses, and as for my lady, Dame Guenever, were I at my liberty as I was,
I would prove it on you or on yours, that she is the truest lady unto her lord living. So they
departed and left him there alone that made great sorrow.

CHAPTER IV. How Sir Launcelot was delivered by the mean of a damosel.

RIGHT so at the noon came the damosel unto him with his dinner, and asked him what cheer. Truly,
fair damosel, said Sir Launcelot, in my life days never so ill. Sir, she said, that me repenteth,
but an ye will be ruled by me, I shall help you out of this distress, and ye shall have no
shame nor villainy, so that ye hold me a promise. Fair damosel, I will grant you, and sore
I am of these queen-sorceresses afeard, for they have destroyed many a good knight. Sir, said
she, that is sooth, and for the renown and bounty that they hear of you they would have your
love, and Sir, they say, your name is Sir Launcelot du Lake, the flower of knights, and they
be passing wroth with you that ye have refused them. But Sir, an ye would promise me to help
my father on Tuesday next coming, that hath made a tournament betwixt him and the King of Northgalis--for
the last Tuesday past my father lost the field through three knights of Arthur's court--an
ye will be there on Tuesday next coming, and help my father, to-morn or prime, by the grace
of God, I shall deliver you clean. Sir, she said, gramercy, and to-morn await ye be ready betimes
and I shall be she that shall deliver you and take you your armour and your horse, shield and
spear, and hereby within this ten mile, is an abbey of white monks, there I pray you that ye
me abide, and thither shall I bring my father unto you. All this shall be done, said Sir Launcelot
as I am true knight.

And so she departed, and came on the morn early, and found him ready; then she brought him
out of twelve locks, and brought him unto his armour, and when he was clean armed, she brought
him until his own horse, and lightly he saddled him and took a great spear in his hand and
so rode forth, and said, Fair damosel, I shall not fail you, by the grace of God. And so he
rode into a great forest all that day, and never could find no highway and so the night fell
on him, and then was he ware in a slade, of a pavilion of red sendal. By my faith, said Sir
Launcelot, in that pavilion will I lodge all this night, and so there he alighted down, and
tied his horse to the pavilion, and there he unarmed him, and there he found a bed, and laid
him therein and fell asleep sadly.

THEN within an hour there came the knight to whom the pavilion ought, and he weened that his
leman had lain in that bed, and so he laid him down beside Sir Launcelot, and took him in his
arms and began to kiss him. And when Sir Launcelot felt a rough beard kissing him, he started
out of the bed lightly, and the other knight after him, and either of them gat their swords
in their hands, and out at the pavilion door went the knight of the pavilion, and Sir Launcelot
followed him, and there by a little slake Sir Launcelot wounded him sore, nigh unto the death.
And then he yielded him unto Sir Launcelot, and so he granted him, so that he would tell him
why he came into the bed. Sir, said the knight, the pavilion is mine own, and there this night
I had assigned my lady to have slept with me, and now I am likely to die of this wound. That
me repenteth, said Launcelot, of your hurt, but I was adread of treason, for I was late beguiled,
and therefore come on your way into your pavilion and take your rest, and as I suppose I shall
staunch your blood. And so they went both into the pavilion, and anon Sir Launcelot staunched
his blood.

Therewithal came the knight's lady, that was a passing fair lady, and when she espied that
her lord Belleus was sore wounded, she cried out on Sir Launcelot, and made great dole out
of measure. Peace, my lady and my love, said Belleus, for this knight is a good man, and a
knight adventurous, and there he told her all the cause how he was wounded; And when that I
yielded me unto him, he left me goodly and hath staunched my blood. Sir, said the lady, I require
thee tell me what knight ye be, and what is your name? Fair lady, he said, my name is Sir Launcelot
du Lake. So me thought ever by your speech, said the lady, for I have seen you oft or this,
and I know you better than ye ween. But now an ye would promise me of your courtesy, for the
harms that ye have done to me and my Lord Belleus, that when he cometh unto Arthur's court
for to cause him to be made knight of the Round Table, for he is a passing good man of arms,
and a mighty lord of lands of many out isles.

Fair lady, said Sir Launcelot, let him come unto the court the next high feast, and look that
ye come with him, and I shall do my power, an ye prove you doughty of your hands, that ye shall
have your desire. So thus within a while, as they thus talked, the night passed, and the day
shone, and then Sir Launcelot armed him, and took his horse, and they taught him to the Abbey,
and thither he rode within the space of two hours.

AND soon as Sir Launcelot came within the abbey yard, the daughter of King Bagdemagus heard
a great horse go on the pavement. And she then arose and yede unto a window, and there she
saw Sir Launcelot, and anon she made men fast to take his horse from him and let lead him into
a stable, and himself was led into a fair chamber, and unarmed him, and the lady sent him a
long gown, and anon she came herself. And then she made Launcelot passing good cheer, and she
said he was the knight in the world was most welcome to her. Then in all haste she sent for
her father Bagdemagus that was within twelve mile of that Abbey, and afore even he came, with
a fair fellowship of knights with him. And when the king was alighted off his horse he yode
straight unto Sir Launcelot's chamber and there he found his daughter, and then the king embraced
Sir Launcelot in his arms, and either made other good cheer.

Anon Sir Launcelot made his complaint unto the king how he was betrayed, and how his brother
Sir Lionel was departed from him he wist not where, and how his daughter had delivered him
out of prison; Therefore while I live I shall do her service and all her kindred. Then am I
sure of your help, said the king, on Tuesday next coming. Yea, sir, said Sir Launcelot, I shall
not fail you, for so I have promised my lady your daughter. But, sir, what knights be they
of my lord Arthur's that were with the King of Northgalis? And the king said it was Sir Mador
de la Porte, and Sir Mordred and Sir Gahalantine that all for-fared my knights, for against
them three I nor my knights might bear no strength. Sir, said Sir Launcelot, as I hear say
that the tournament shall be here within this three mile of this abbey, ye shall send unto
me three knights of yours, such as ye trust, and look that the three knights have all white
shields, and I also, and no painture on the shields, and we four will come out of a little
wood in midst of both parties, and we shall fall in the front of our enemies and grieve them
that we may; and thus shall I not be known what knight I am.

So they took their rest that night, and this was on the Sunday, and so the king departed, and
sent unto Sir Launcelot three knights with the four white shields. And on the Tuesday they
lodged them in a little leaved wood beside there the tournament should be. And there were scaffolds
and holes that lords and ladies might behold and to give the prize. Then came into the field
the King of Northgalis with eight score helms. And then the three knights of Arthur's stood
by themselves. Then came into the field King Bagdemagus with four score of helms. And then
they feutred their spears, and came together with a great dash, and there were slain of knights
at the first recounter twelve of King Bagdemagus' party, and six of the King of Northgalis'
party, and King Bagdemagus' party was far set aback.

WITH that came Sir Launcelot du Lake, and he thrust in with his spear in the thickest of the
press, and there he smote down with one spear five knights, and of four of them he brake their
backs. And in that throng he smote down the King of Northgalis, and brake his thigh in that
fall. All this doing of Sir Launcelot saw the three knights of Arthur's. Yonder is a shrewd
guest, said Sir Mador de la Porte, therefore have here once at him. So they encountered, and
Sir Launcelot bare him down horse and man, so that his shoulder went out of lith. Now befalleth
it to me to joust, said Mordred, for Sir Mador hath a sore fall. Sir Launcelot was ware of
him, and gat a great spear in his hand, and met him, and Sir Mordred brake a spear upon him,
and Sir Launcelot gave him such a buffet that the arson of his saddle brake, and so he flew
over his horse's tail, that his helm butted into the earth a foot and more, that nigh his neck
was broken, and there he lay long in a swoon.

Then came in Sir Gahalantine with a great spear and Launcelot against him, with all their strength
that they might drive, that both their spears to-brast even to their hands, and then they flang
out with their swords and gave many a grim stroke. Then was Sir Launcelot wroth out of measure,
and then he smote Sir Gahalantine on the helm that his nose brast out on blood, and ears and
mouth both, and therewith his head hung low. And therewith his horse ran away with him, and
he fell down to the earth. Anon therewithal Sir Launcelot gat a great spear in his hand, and
or ever that great spear brake, he bare down to the earth sixteen knights, some horse and man,
and some the man and not the horse, and there was none but that he hit surely, he bare none
arms that day. And then he gat another great spear, and smote down twelve knights, and the
most part of them never throve after. And then the knights of the King of Northgalis would
joust no more. And there the gree was given to King Bagdemagus. And there he said unto the
king's daughter, If ye have need any time of my service I pray you let me have knowledge, and
I shall not fail you as I am true knight. And so Sir Launcelot departed, and by adventure he
came into the same forest there he was taken sleeping. And in the midst of a highway he met
a damosel riding on a white palfrey, and there either saluted other. Fair damosel, said Sir
Launcelot, know ye in this country any adventures? Sir knight, said that damosel, here are
adventures near hand, an thou durst prove them. Why should I not prove adventures? said Sir
Launcelot for that cause come I hither. Well, said she, thou seemest well to be a good knight,
and if thou dare meet with a good knight, I shall bring thee where is the best knight, and
the mightiest that ever thou found, so thou wilt tell me what is thy name, and what knight
thou art. Damosel, as for to tell thee my name I take no great force; truly my name is Sir
Launcelot du Lake. Sir, thou beseemest well, here be adventures by that fall for thee, for
hereby dwelleth a knight that will not be overmatched for no man I know but ye overmatch him,
and his name is Sir Turquine. And, as I understand, he hath in his prison, of Arthur's court,
good knights three score and four, that he hath won with his own hands. But when ye have done
that journey ye shall promise me as ye are a true knight for to go with me, and to help me
and other damosels that are distressed daily with a false knight. All your intent, damosel,
and desire I will fulfil, so ye will bring me unto this knight. Now, fair knight, come on your
way; and so she brought him unto the ford and the tree where hung the basin.

So Sir Launcelot let his horse drink, and then he beat on the basin with the butt of his spear
so hard with all his might till the bottom fell out, and long he did so, but he saw nothing.
Then he rode endlong the gates of that manor nigh half-an-hour. And then was he ware of a great
knight that drove an horse afore him, and overthwart the horse there lay an armed knight bound.
And ever as they came near and near, Sir Launcelot thought he should know him. Then Sir Launcelot
was ware that it was Sir Gaheris, Gawaine's brother, a knight of the Table Round. Now, fair
damosel, said Sir Launcelot, I see yonder cometh a knight fast bounden that is a fellow of
mine, and brother he is unto Sir Gawaine. And at the first beginning I promise you, by the
leave of God, to rescue that knight; but if his master sit better in the saddle I shall deliver
all the prisoners that he hath out of danger, for I am sure he hath two brethren of mine prisoners
with him. By that time that either had seen other, they gripped their spears unto them.

CHAPTER VIII. How Sir Launcelot and Sir Turquine fought together.

AND then they put their spears in the rests, and came together with their horses as fast as
they might run, and either smote other in midst of their shields, that both their horses' backs
brast under them, and the knights were both stonied. And as soon as they might avoid their
horses, they took their shields afore them, and drew out their swords, and came together eagerly,
and either gave other many strong strokes, for there might neither shields nor harness hold
their strokes. And so within a while they had both grimly wounds, and bled passing grievously.
Thus they fared two hours or more trasing and rasing either other, where they might hit any
bare place.

Then at the last they were breathless both, and stood leaning on their swords. Now fellow,
said Sir Turquine, hold thy hand a while, and tell me what I shall ask thee. Say on. Then Turquine
said, Thou art the biggest man that ever I met withal, and the best breathed, and like one
knight that I hate above all other knights; so be it that thou be not he I will lightly accord
with thee, and for thy love I will deliver all the prisoners that I have, that is three score
and four, so thou wilt tell me thy name. And thou and I we will be fellows together, and never
to fail thee while that I live. It is well said, said Sir Launcelot, but sithen it is so that
I may have thy friendship, what knight is he that thou so hatest above all other? Faithfully,
said Sir Turquine, his name is Sir Launcelot du Lake, for he slew my brother, Sir Carados,
at the dolorous tower, that was one of the best knights alive; and therefore him I except of
all knights, for may I once meet with him, the one of us shall make an end of other, I make
mine avow. And for Sir Launcelot's sake I have slain an hundred good knights, and as many I
have maimed all utterly that they might never after help themselves, and many have died in
prison, and yet have I three score and four, and all shall be delivered so thou wilt tell me
thy name, so be it that thou be not Sir Launcelot.

Now, see I well, said Sir Launcelot, that such a man I might be, I might have peace, and such
a man I might be, that there should be war mortal betwixt us. Then they hurtled together as
two wild bulls rushing and lashing with their shields and swords, that sometime they fell both
over their noses. Thus they fought still two hours and more, and never would have rest, and
Sir Turquine gave Sir Launcelot many wounds that all the ground thereas they fought was all
bespeckled with blood.

THEN at the last Sir Turquine waxed faint, and gave somewhat aback, and bare his shield low
for weariness. That espied Sir Launcelot, and leapt upon him fiercely and gat him by the beaver
of his helmet, and plucked him down on his knees, and anon he raced off his helm, and smote
his neck in sunder. And when Sir Launcelot had done this, he yode unto the damosel and said,
Damosel, I am ready to go with you where ye will have me, but I have no horse. Fair sir, said
she, take this wounded knight's horse and send him into this manor, and command him to deliver
all the prisoners. So Sir Launcelot went unto Gaheris, and prayed him not to be aggrieved for
to lend him his horse. Sir, my name is Sir Launcelot du Lake, that ought to help you of right
for King Arthur's sake, and in especial for my lord Sir Gawaine's sake, your own dear brother;
and when that ye come within yonder manor, I am sure ye shall find there many knights of the
Round Table, for I have seen many of their shields that I know on yonder tree. There is Kay's
shield, and Sir Brandel's shield, and Sir Marhaus' shield, and Sir Galind's shield, and Sir
Brian de Listnois' shield, and Sir Aliduke's shield, with many more that I am not now advised
of, and also my two brethren's shields, Sir Ector de Maris and Sir Lionel; wherefore I pray
you greet them all from me, and say that I bid them take such stuff there as they find, and
that in any wise my brethren go unto the court and abide me there till that I come, for by
the feast of Pentecost I cast me to be there, for as at this time I must ride with this damosel
for to save my promise.

And so he departed from Gaheris, and Gaheris yede in to the manor, and there he found a yeoman
porter keeping there many keys. Anon withal Sir Gaheris threw the porter unto the ground and
took the keys from him, and hastily he opened the prison door, and there he let out all the
prisoners, and every man loosed other of their bonds. And when they saw Sir Gaheris, all they
thanked him, for they weened that he was wounded. Not so, said Gaheris, it was Launcelot that
slew him worshipfully with his own hands. I saw it with mine own eyes. And he greeteth you
all well, and prayeth you to haste you to the court; and as unto Sir Lionel and Ector de Maris
he prayeth you to abide him at the court. That shall we not do, says his brethren, we will
find him an we may live. So shall I, said Sir Kay, find him or I come at the court, as I am
true knight.

Then all those knights sought the house thereas the armour was, and then they armed them, and
every knight found his own horse, and all that ever longed unto him. And when this was done,
there came a forester with four horses laden with fat venison. Anon, Sir Kay said, Here is
good meat for us for one meal, for we had not many a day no good repast. And so that venison
was roasted, baken, and sodden, and so after supper some abode there all night, but Sir Lionel
and Ector de Maris and Sir Kay rode after Sir Launcelot to find him if they might.

NOW turn we unto Sir Launcelot, that rode with the damosel in a fair highway. Sir, said the
damosel, here by this way haunteth a knight that distressed all ladies and gentlewomen, and
at the least he robbeth them or lieth by them. What, said Sir Launcelot, is he a thief and
a knight and a ravisher of women? he doth shame unto the order of knighthood, and contrary
unto his oath; it is pity that he liveth. But, fair damosel, ye shall ride on afore, yourself,
and I will keep myself in covert, and if that he trouble you or distress you I shall be your
rescue and learn him to be ruled as a knight.

So the maid rode on by the way a soft ambling pace, and within a while came out that knight
on horseback out of the wood, and his page with him, and there he put the damosel from her
horse, and then she cried. With that came Launcelot as fast as he might till he came to that
knight, saying, O thou false knight and traitor unto knighthood, who did learn thee to distress
ladies and gentlewomen? When the knight saw Sir Launcelot thus rebuking him he answered not,
but drew his sword and rode unto Sir Launcelot, and Sir Launcelot threw his spear from him,
and drew out his sword, and struck him such a buffet on the helmet that he clave his head and
neck unto the throat. Now hast thou thy payment that long thou hast deserved! That is truth,
said the damosel, for like as Sir Turquine watched to destroy knights, so did this knight attend
to destroy and distress ladies, damosels, and gentlewomen, and his name was Sir Peris de Forest
Savage. Now, damosel, said Sir Launcelot, will ye any more service of me? Nay, sir, she said,
at this time, but almighty Jesu preserve you wheresomever ye ride or go, for the curteist knight
thou art, and meekest unto all ladies and gentlewomen, that now liveth. But one thing, sir
knight, methinketh ye lack, ye that are a knight wifeless, that he will not love some maiden
or gentlewoman, for I could never hear say that ever ye loved any of no manner degree, and
that is great pity; but it is noised that ye love Queen Guenever, and that she hath ordained
by enchantment that ye shall never love none other but her, nor none other damosel nor lady
shall rejoice you; wherefore many in this land, of high estate and low, make great sorrow.

Fair damosel, said Sir Launcelot, I may not warn people to speak of me what it pleaseth them;
but for to be a wedded man, I think it not; for then I must couch with her, and leave arms
and tournaments, battles, and adventures; and as for to say for to take my pleasaunce with
paramours, that will I refuse in principal for dread of God; for knights that be adventurous
or lecherous shall not be happy nor fortunate unto the wars, for other they shall be overcome
with a simpler knight than they be themselves, other else they shall by unhap and their cursedness
slay better men than they be themselves. And so who that useth paramours shall be unhappy,
and all thing is unhappy that is about them.

And so Sir Launcelot and she departed. And then he rode in a deep forest two days and more,
and had strait lodging. So on the third day he rode over a long bridge, and there stert upon
him suddenly a passing foul churl, and he smote his horse on the nose that he turned about,
and asked him why he rode over that bridge without his licence. Why should I not ride this
way? said Sir Launcelot, I may not ride beside. At the end of the bridge was a fair village,
and all the people, men and women, cried on Sir Launcelot, and said, A worse deed didst thou
never for thyself, for thou hast slain the chief porter of our castle. Sir Launcelot let them
say what they would, and straight he went into the castle; and when he came into the castle
he alighted, and tied his horse to a ring on the wall and there he saw a fair green court,
and thither he dressed him, for there him thought was a fair place to fight in. So he looked
about, and saw much people in doors and windows that said, Fair knight, thou art unhappy.

ANON withal came there upon him two great giants, well armed all save the heads, with two horrible
clubs in their hands. Sir Launcelot put his shield afore him and put the stroke away of the
one giant, and with his sword he clave his head asunder. When his fellow saw that, he ran away
as he were wood, for fear of the horrible strokes, and Launcelot after him with all his might,
and smote him on the shoulder, and clave him to the navel. Then Sir Launcelot went into the
hall, and there came afore him three score ladies and damosels, and all kneeled unto him, and
thanked God and him of their deliverance; For sir, said they, the most party of us have been
here this seven year their prisoners, and we have worked all manner of silk works for our meat,
and we are all great gentlewomen born; and blessed be the time, knight, that ever thou be born,
for thou hast done the most worship that ever did knight in this world, that will we bear record,
and we all pray you to tell us your name, that we may tell our friends who delivered us out
of prison. Fair damosel, he said, my name is Sir Launcelot du Lake. Ah, sir, said they all,
well mayest thou be he, for else save yourself, as we deemed, there might never knight have
the better of these two giants; for many fair knights have assayed it, and here have ended,
and many times have we wished after you, and these two giants dread never knight but you. Now
may ye say, said Sir Launcelot, unto your friends how and who hath delivered you, and greet
them all from me, and if that I come in any of your marches, show me such cheer as ye have
cause, and what treasure that there in this castle is I give it you for a reward for your grievance,
and the lord that is owner of this castle I would he received it as is right. Fair sir, said
they, the name of this castle is Tintagil, and a duke ought it sometime that had wedded fair
Igraine, and after wedded her Uther Pendragon, and gat on her Arthur. Well, said Sir Launcelot,
I understand to whom this castle longeth; and so he departed from them, and betaught them unto God.

And then he mounted upon his horse, and rode into many strange and wild countries, and through
many waters and valleys, and evil was he lodged. Nay, sir, said he, I will none of your help;
therefore as ye will have my help, let me alone with them. Sir Kay, for the pleasure of the
knight, suffered him for to do his will, and so stood aside. And then anon within six strokes,
Sir Launcelot had stricken them to the earth.

And then they all three cried: Sir knight, we yield us unto you as a man of might makeless.
Fair knight, said they, that were we loath to do; for as for Sir Kay, we chased him hither,
and had overcome him had not ye been, therefore to yield us unto him it were no reason. Well,
as to that, said Launcelot, advise you well, for ye may choose whether ye will die or live,
for an ye be yolden it shall be unto Sir Kay. Fair knight, then they said, in saving of our
lives we will do as thou commandest us. Then shall ye, said Sir Launcelot, on Whitsunday next
coming, go unto the court of King Arthur, and there shall ye yield you unto Queen Guenever,
and put you all three in her grace and mercy, and say that Sir Kay sent you thither to be her
prisoners. Sir, they said, it shall be done by the faith of our bodies, an we be living, and
there they swore every knight upon his sword. And because of his armour and shield I am sure
I shall ride in peace. And then soon after departed Sir Kay and thanked his host.

NOW turn we unto Sir Launcelot that had ridden long in a great forest, and at the last he came
into a low country, full of fair rivers and meadows. And afore him he saw a long bridge, and
three pavilions stood thereon, of silk and sendal of divers hue. And without the pavilions
hung three white shields on truncheons of spears, and great long spears stood upright by the
pavilions, and at every pavilion's door stood three fresh squires, and so Sir Launcelot passed
by them and spake no word. When he was passed the three knights said them that it was the proud
Kay; He weeneth no knight so good as he, and the contrary is ofttime proved. By my faith, said
one of the knights, his name was Sir Gaunter, I will ride after him and assay him for all his
pride, and ye may behold how that I speed. So this knight, Sir Gaunter, armed him, and hung
his shield upon his shoulder, and mounted upon a great horse, and gat his spear in his hand,
and walloped after Sir Launcelot. And when he came nigh him, he cried, Abide, thou proud knight
Sir Kay, for thou shalt not pass quit. So Sir Launcelot turned him, and either feutred their
spears, and came together with all their mights, and Sir Gaunter's spear brake, but Sir Launcelot
smote him down horse and man. And when Sir Gaunter was at the earth his brethren said each
one to other, Yonder knight is not Sir Kay, for he is bigger than he. I dare lay my head, said
Sir Gilmere, yonder knight hath slain Sir Kay and hath taken his horse and his harness. Whether
it be so or no, said Sir Raynold, the third brother, let us now go mount upon our horses and
rescue our brother Sir Gaunter, upon pain of death. We all shall have work enough to match
that knight, for ever meseemeth by his person it is Sir Launcelot, or Sir Tristram, or Sir
Pelleas, the good knight.

Then anon they took their horses and overtook Sir Launcelot, and Sir Gilmere put forth his
spear, and ran to Sir Launcelot, and Sir Launcelot smote him down that he lay in a swoon. Sir
knight, said Sir Raynold, thou art a strong man, and as I suppose thou hast slain my two brethren,
for the which raseth my heart sore against thee, and if I might with my worship I would not
have ado with you, but needs I must take part as they do, and therefore, knight, he said, keep
thyself. And so they hurtled together with all their mights, and all to-shivered both their
spears. And then they drew their swords and lashed together eagerly. Anon therewith arose Sir
Gaunter, and came unto his brother Sir Gilmere, and bade him, Arise, and help we our brother
Sir Raynold, that yonder marvellously matched yonder good knight. Therewithal, they leapt on
their horses and hurtled unto Sir Launcelot.

And when he saw them come he smote a sore stroke unto Sir Raynold, that he fell off his horse
to the ground, and then he struck to the other two brethren, and at two strokes he struck them
down to the earth. With that Sir Raynold began to start up with his head all bloody, and came
straight unto Sir Launcelot. Now let be, said Sir Launcelot, I was not far from thee when thou
wert made knight, Sir Raynold, and also I know thou art a good knight, and loath I were to
slay thee. Gramercy, said Sir Raynold, as for your goodness; and I dare say as for me and my
brethren, we will not be loath to yield us unto you, with that we knew your name, for well
we know ye are not Sir Kay. As for that be it as it be may, for ye shall yield you unto dame
Guenever, and look that ye be with her on Whitsunday, and yield you unto her as prisoners,
and say that Sir Kay sent you unto her. Then they swore it should be done, and so passed forth
Sir Launcelot, and each one of the brethren holp other as well as they might.

SO Sir Launcelot rode into a deep forest, and thereby in a slade, he saw four knights hoving
under an oak, and they were of Arthur's court, one was Sir Sagramour le Desirous, and Ector
de Maris, and Sir Gawaine, and Sir Uwaine.

Then the four knights went each one to other and comforted each other. What say ye by this
guest? said Sir Gawaine, that one spear hath felled us all four. We commend him unto the devil,
they said all, for he is a man of great might. Ye may well say it, said Sir Gawaine, that he
is a man of might, for I dare lay my head it is Sir Launcelot, I know it by his riding. Let
him go, said Sir Gawaine, for when we come to the court then shall we wit; and then had they
much sorrow to get their horses again.

NOW leave we there and speak of Sir Launcelot that rode a great while in a deep forest, where
he saw a black brachet, seeking in manner as it had been in the feute of an hurt deer. And
therewith he rode after the brachet, and he saw lie on the ground a large feute of blood. And
then Sir Launcelot rode after. And ever the brachet looked behind her, and so she went through
a great marsh, and ever Sir Launcelot followed. And then was he ware of an old manor, and thither
ran the brachet, and so over the bridge. So Sir Launcelot rode over that bridge that was old
and feeble; and when he came in midst of a great hall, there he saw lie a dead knight that
was a seemly man, and that brachet licked his wounds. What was your husband's name? said Sir
Launcelot. With that he saw by him there stand a thirty great knights, more by a yard than
any man that ever he had seen, and all those grinned and gnashed at Sir Launcelot. And when
he saw their countenance he dreaded him sore, and so put his shield afore him, and took his
sword ready in his hand ready unto battle, and they were all armed in black harness ready with
their shields and their swords drawn. And then he saw a fair sword lie by the dead knight,
and that he gat in his hand and hied him out of the chapel. No, said she, an thou didst leave
that sword, Queen Guenever should thou never see. Then were I a fool an I would leave this
sword, said Launcelot. And, Sir Launcelot, now I tell thee, I have loved thee this seven year,
but there may no woman have thy love but Queen Guenever. But sithen I may not rejoice thee
to have thy body alive, I had kept no more joy in this world but to have thy body dead. Then
would I have balmed it and served it, and so have kept it my life days, and daily I should
have clipped thee, and kissed thee, in despite of Queen Guenever. Ye say well, said Sir Launcelot,
Jesu preserve me from your subtle crafts. And therewithal he took his horse and so departed
from her. And as the book saith, when Sir Launcelot was departed she took such sorrow that
she died within a fourteen night, and her name was Hellawes the sorceress, Lady of the Castle
Nigramous.

Anon Sir Launcelot met with the damosel, Sir Meliot's sister. And when she saw him she clapped
her hands, and wept for joy. And then they rode unto a castle thereby where lay Sir Meliot.
And anon as Sir Launcelot saw him he knew him, but he was passing pale, as the earth, for bleeding.
When Sir Meliot saw Sir Launcelot he kneeled upon his knees and cried on high: O lord Sir Launcelot,
help me! And therewith they departed. What is your lord's name? said Sir Launcelot. Sir, she
said, his name is Sir Phelot, a knight that longeth unto the King of Northgalis. Well, fair
lady, since that ye know my name, and require me of knighthood to help you, I will do what
I may to get your hawk, and yet God knoweth I am an ill climber, and the tree is passing high,
and few boughs to help me withal. Truly, said Sir Launcelot, that shall be thy shame, but since
thou wilt do none other, take mine harness with thee, and hang my sword upon a bough that I
may get it, and then do thy best to slay me an thou canst. Nay, nay, said Sir Phelot, for I
know thee better than thou weenest, therefore thou gettest no weapon, an I may keep you therefrom.
Alas, said Sir Launcelot, that ever a knight should die weaponless. And therewith he waited
above him and under him, and over his head he saw a rownsepyk, a big bough leafless, and therewith
he brake it off by the body. And then he came lower and awaited how his own horse stood, and
suddenly he leapt on the further side of the horse, fro-ward the knight. And then Sir Phelot
lashed at him eagerly, weening to have slain him. Then cried the lady, Alas! why hast thou
slain my husband? I am not causer, said Sir Launcelot, for with falsehood ye would have had
slain me with treason, and now it is fallen on you both. And then she swooned as though she
would die.

SO Sir Launcelot rode many wild ways, throughout marches and many wild ways. And as he rode
in a valley he saw a knight chasing a lady, with a naked sword, to have slain her. And by fortune
as this knight should have slain this lady, she cried on Sir Launcelot and prayed him to rescue
her. When Sir Launcelot saw that mischief, he took his horse and rode between them, saying,
Knight, fie for shame, why wilt thou slay this lady? thou dost shame unto thee and all knights.
What hast thou to do betwixt me and my wife? said the knight. I will slay her maugre thy head.
That shall ye not, said Sir Launcelot, for rather we two will have ado together. Sir Launcelot,
said the knight, thou dost not thy part, for this lady hath betrayed me. It is not so, said
the lady, truly he saith wrong on me. And for because I love and cherish my cousin germain,
he is jealous betwixt him and me; and as I shall answer to God there was never sin betwixt
us. But, sir, said the lady, as thou art called the worshipfullest knight of the world, I require
thee of true knighthood, keep me and save me. For whatsomever ye say he will slay me, for he
is without mercy. Have ye no doubt, said Launcelot, it shall not lie in his power. Sir, said
the knight, in your sight I will be ruled as ye will have me. And so Sir Launcelot rode on
the one side and she on the other: he had not ridden but a while, but the knight bade Sir Launcelot
turn him and look behind him, and said, Sir, yonder come men of arms after us riding. And so
Sir Launcelot turned him and thought no treason, and therewith was the knight and the lady
on one side, and suddenly he swapped off his lady's head.

And when Sir Launcelot had espied him what he had done, he said, and called him, Traitor, thou
hast shamed me for ever. And suddenly Sir Launcelot alighted off his horse, and pulled out
his sword to slay him, and therewithal he fell flat to the earth, and gripped Sir Launcelot
by the thighs, and cried mercy. Fie on thee, said Sir Launcelot, thou shameful knight, thou
mayest have no mercy, and therefore arise and fight with me. Nay, said the knight, I will never
arise till ye grant me mercy. Now will I proffer thee fair, said Launcelot, I will unarm me
unto my shirt, and I will have nothing upon me but my shirt, and my sword and my hand. And
if thou canst slay me, quit be thou for ever. Nay, sir, said Pedivere, that will I never. Well,
said Sir Launcelot, take this lady and the head, and bear it upon thee, and here shalt thou
swear upon my sword, to bear it always upon thy back, and never to rest till thou come to Queen
Guenever. Sir, said he, that will I do, by the faith of my body. Now, said Launcelot, tell
me what is your name? Sir, my name is Pedivere. In a shameful hour wert thou born, said Launcelot.

So Pedivere departed with the dead lady and the head, and found the queen with King Arthur
at Winchester, and there he told all the truth. Sir knight, said the queen, this is an horrible
deed and a shameful, and a great rebuke unto Sir Launcelot; but notwithstanding his worship
is not known in many divers countries; but this shall I give you in penance, make ye as good
shift as ye can, ye shall bear this lady with you on horseback unto the Pope of Rome, and of
him receive your penance for your foul deeds; and ye shall never rest one night whereas ye
do another; an ye go to any bed the dead body shall lie with you. This oath there he made,
and so departed. And as it telleth in the French book, when he came to Rome, the Pope bade
him go again unto Queen Guenever, and in Rome was his lady buried by the Pope's commandment.
And after this Sir Pedivere fell to great goodness, and was an holy man and an hermit.

NOW turn we unto Sir Launcelot du Lake, that came home two days afore the Feast of Pentecost;
and the king and all the court were passing fain of his coming. And when Sir Gawaine, Sir Uwaine,
Sir Sagramore, Sir Ector de Maris, saw Sir Launcelot in Kay's armour, then they wist well it
was he that smote them down all with one spear. Then there was laughing and smiling among them.
And ever now and now came all the knights home that Sir Turquine had prisoners, and they all
honoured and worshipped Sir Launcelot.

When Sir Gaheris heard them speak, he said, I saw all the battle from the beginning to the
ending, and there he told King Arthur all how it was, and how Sir Turquine was the strongest
knight that ever he saw except Sir Launcelot: there were many knights bare him record, nigh
three score. Then Sir Kay told the king how Sir Launcelot had rescued him when he should have
been slain, and how he made the knights yield them to me, and not to him. And there they were
all three, and bare record. And by Jesu, said Sir Kay, because Sir Launcelot took my harness
and left me his I rode in good peace, and no man would have ado with me.

Anon therewithal there came the three knights that fought with Sir Launcelot at the long bridge.
And there they yielded them unto Sir Kay, and Sir Kay forsook them and said he fought never
with them. But I shall ease your heart, said Sir Kay, yonder is Sir Launcelot that overcame
you. When they wist that they were glad. And then Sir Meliot de Logres came home, and told
the king how Sir Launcelot had saved him from the death. And all his deeds were known, how
four queens, sorceresses, had him in prison, and how he was delivered by King Bagdemagus' daughter.
Also there were told all the great deeds of arms that Sir Launcelot did betwixt the two kings,
that is for to say the King of Northgalis and King Bagdemagus. All the truth Sir Gahalantine
did tell, and Sir Mador de la Porte and Sir Mordred, for they were at that same tournament.
Then came in the lady that knew Sir Launcelot when that he wounded Sir Belleus at the pavilion.
And there, at request of Sir Launcelot, Sir Belleus was made knight of the Round Table. And
so at that time Sir Launcelot had the greatest name of any knight of the world, and most he
was honoured of high and low.

Explicit the noble tale of Sir Launcelot du Lake, which is the vi. book. Here followeth the
tale of Sir Gareth of Orkney that was called Beaumains by Sir Kay, and is the seventh book.

WHEN Arthur held his Round Table most plenour, it fortuned that he commanded that the high
feast of Pentecost should be holden at a city and a castle, the which in those days was called
Kynke Kenadonne, upon the sands that marched nigh Wales. So ever the king had a custom that
at the feast of Pentecost in especial, afore other feasts in the year, he would not go that
day to meat until he had heard or seen of a great marvel. And for that custom all manner of
strange adventures came before Arthur as at that feast before all other feasts. And so Sir
Gawaine, a little to-fore noon of the day of Pentecost, espied at a window three men upon horseback,
and a dwarf on foot, and so the three men alighted, and the dwarf kept their horses, and one
of the three men was higher than the other twain by a foot and an half. Then Sir Gawaine went
unto the king and said, Sir, go to your meat, for here at the hand come strange adventures.
So Arthur went unto his meat with many other kings. And there were all the knights of the Round
Table, [save] only those that were prisoners or slain at a recounter. Then at the high feast
evermore they should be fulfilled the whole number of an hundred and fifty, for then was the
Round Table fully complished. Anon as Arthur saw him there was made peace and room, and right
so they yede with him unto the high dais, without saying of any words. And for this cause I
am come hither, to pray you and require you to give me three gifts, and they shall not be unreasonably
asked, but that ye may worshipfully and honourably grant them me, and to you no great hurt
nor loss.

My fair son, said Arthur, ask better, I counsel thee, for this is but a simple asking; for
my heart giveth me to thee greatly, that thou art come of men of worship, and greatly my conceit
faileth me but thou shalt prove a man of right great worship. Sir, he said, thereof be as it
be may, I have asked that I will ask. Well, said the king, ye shall have meat and drink enough;
I never defended that none, neither my friend nor my foe. But what is thy name I would wit?
I cannot tell you, said he. That is marvel, said the king, that thou knowest not thy name,
and thou art the goodliest young man that ever I saw. And sithen he hath no name, I shall give
him a name that shall be Beaumains, that is Fair-hands, and into the kitchen I shall bring
him, and there he shall have fat brose every day, that he shall be as fat by the twelvemonths'
end as a pork hog. Right so the two men departed and beleft him to Sir Kay, that scorned him
and mocked him. Let be said Sir Kay, it may not be by no reason, for as he is, so he hath asked.
Beware, said Sir Launcelot, so ye gave the good knight Brewnor, Sir Dinadan's brother, a name,
and ye called him La Cote Male Taile, and that turned you to anger afterward. As for that,
said Sir Kay, this shall never prove none such. For Sir Brewnor desired ever worship, and this
desireth bread and drink and broth; upon pain of my life he was fostered up in some abbey,
and, howsomever it was, they failed meat and drink, and so hither he is come for his sustenance.

And so Sir Kay bade get him a place, and sit down to meat; so Beaumains went to the hall door,
and set him down among boys and lads, and there he ate sadly. But that as Sir Launcelot did
was of his great gentleness and courtesy. So it passed on till the feast of Whitsuntide. And
at that time the king held it at Carlion in the most royallest wise that might be, like as
he did yearly. But the king would no meat eat upon the Whitsunday, until he heard some adventures.
Then came there a squire to the king and said, Sir, ye may go to your meat, for here cometh
a damosel with some strange adventures. Then was the king glad and sat him down. I know him
not, said the king. Then must I speak further, said the damosel. Thou shalt have it, said the
king, I grant it thee. Then, sir, this is the other gift, that ye shall bid Launcelot du Lake
to make me knight, for of him I will be made knight and else of none. And when I am passed
I pray you let him ride after me, and make me knight when I require him. All this shall be
done, said the king. Fie on thee, said the damosel, shall I have none but one that is your
kitchen page? Then was she wroth and took her horse and departed. Said Sir Launcelot and Sir
Gawaine, Yet abide at home. So Sir Kay made him ready and took his horse and his spear, and
rode after him. And right as Beaumains overtook the damosel, right so came Sir Kay and said,
Beaumains, what, sir, know ye not me? Then he turned his horse, and knew it was Sir Kay, that
had done him all the despite as ye have heard afore.

All that saw Sir Launcelot, and so did the damosel. And then he bade his dwarf stert upon Sir
Kay's horse, and so he did. By that Sir Launcelot was come, then he proffered Sir Launcelot
to joust; and either made them ready, and they came together so fiercely that either bare down
other to the earth, and sore were they bruised. Then Sir Launcelot arose and helped him from
his horse. And then Beaumains threw his shield from him, and proffered to fight with Sir Launcelot
on foot; and so they rushed together like boars, tracing, rasing, and foining to the mountenance
of an hour; and Sir Launcelot felt him so big that he marvelled of his strength, for he fought
more liker a giant than a knight, and that his fighting was durable and passing perilous. For
Sir Launcelot had so much ado with him that he dreaded himself to be shamed, and said, Beaumains,
fight not so sore, your quarrel and mine is not so great but we may leave off. Truly that is
truth, said Beaumains, but it doth me good to feel your might, and yet, my lord, I showed not
the utterance.

IN God's name, said Sir Launcelot, for I promise you, by the faith of my body, I had as much
to do as I might to save myself from you unshamed, and therefore have ye no doubt of none earthly
knight. Hope ye so that I may any while stand a proved knight? said Beaumains. Yea, said Launcelot,
do as ye have done, and I shall be your warrant. Then, I pray you, said Beaumains, give me
the order of knighthood. Then must ye tell me your name, said Launcelot, and of what kin ye
be born. Sir, so that ye will not discover me I shall, said Beaumains. Nay, said Sir Launcelot,
and that I promise you by the faith of my body, until it be openly known. Then, sir, he said,
my name is Gareth, and brother unto Sir Gawaine of father and mother.

So Sir Launcelot departed from him and came to Sir Kay, and made him to be borne home upon
his shield, and so he was healed hard with the life; and all men scorned Sir Kay, and in especial
Sir Gawaine and Sir Launcelot said it was not his part to rebuke no young man, for full little
knew he of what birth he is come, and for what cause he came to this court; and so we leave
Sir Kay and turn we unto Beaumains.

When he had overtaken the damosel, anon she said, What dost thou here? thou stinkest all of
the kitchen, thy clothes be bawdy of the grease and tallow that thou gainest in King Arthur's
kitchen; weenest thou, said she, that I allow thee, for yonder knight that thou killest. Nay
truly, for thou slewest him unhappily and cowardly; therefore turn again, bawdy kitchen page,
I know thee well, for Sir Kay named thee Beaumains. What art thou but a lusk and a turner of
broaches and a ladle-washer? Damosel, said Beaumains, say to me what ye will, I will not go
from you whatsomever ye say, for I have undertaken to King Arthur for to achieve your adventure,
and so shall I finish it to the end, either I shall die therefore. Fie on thee, kitchen knave,
wilt thou finish mine adventure? thou shalt anon be met withal, that thou wouldest not for
all the broth that ever thou suppest once look him in the face. I shall assay, said Beaumains.

So thus as they rode in the wood, there came a man flying all that ever he might. Whither wilt
thou? said Beaumains. O lord, he said, help me, for here by in a slade are six thieves that
have taken my lord and bound him, so I am afeard lest they will slay him. Bring me thither,
said Beaumains. Sir, said Beaumains, I will no reward have: I was this day made knight of noble
Sir Launcelot, and therefore I will no reward have, but God reward me. And also I must follow
this damosel. And because it was near night the damosel rode with him to his castle, and there
they had great cheer, and at supper the knight sat Sir Beaumains afore the damosel. Then the
knight was ashamed at her words, and took him up, and set him at a sideboard, and set himself
afore him, and so all that night they had good cheer and merry rest.

CHAPTER VI. How Beaumains fought and slew two knights at a passage. What sayest thou, said
the damosel, wilt thou match yonder knights or turn again? Nay, said Sir Beaumains, I will
not turn again an they were six more. And therewithal he rushed into the water, and in midst
of the water either brake their spears upon other to their hands, and then they drew their
swords, and smote eagerly at other. And at the last Sir Beaumains smote the other upon the
helm that his head stonied, and therewithal he fell down in the water, and there was he drowned.
And then he spurred his horse upon the land, where the other knight fell upon him, and brake
his spear, and so they drew their swords and fought long together.

Damosel, said Beaumains, ye may say what ye will, but with whomsomever I have ado withal, I
trust to God to serve him or he depart. Fair damosel, give me goodly language, and then my
care is past, for what knights somever they be, I care not, nor I doubt them not. Also, said
she, I say it for thine avail, yet mayest thou turn again with thy worship; for an thou follow
me, thou art but slain, for I see all that ever thou dost is but by misadventure, and not by
prowess of thy hands. Well, damosel, ye may say what ye will, but wheresomever ye go I will
follow you. So this Beaumains rode with that lady till evensong time, and ever she chid him,
and would not rest.

THERE sat a knight all armed in black harness, and his name was the Knight of the Black Laund.
Then the damosel, when she saw that knight, she bade him flee down that valley, for his horse
was not saddled. Gramercy, said Beaumains, for always ye would have me a coward. Why cometh
he, said the knight, in such array? it is shame that he beareth you company. Sir, I cannot
be delivered of him, said she, for with me he rideth maugre mine head: God would that ye should
put him from me, other to slay him an ye may, for he is an unhappy knave, and unhappily he
hath done this day: through mishap I saw him slay two knights at the passage of the water;
and other deeds he did before right marvellous and through unhappiness. That marvelleth me,
said the Black Knight, that any man that is of worship will have ado with him. They know him
not, said the damosel, and for because he rideth with me, they ween that he be some man of
worship born. And horse nor harness gettest thou none of mine, but if thou win them with thy
hands; and therefore let see what thou canst do. Sayest thou that? said the Black Knight, now
yield thy lady from thee, for it beseemeth never a kitchen page to ride with such a lady. But
at the last the Black Knight, within an hour and an half, he fell down off his horse in swoon,
and there he died. And when Beaumains saw him so well horsed and armed, then he alighted down
and armed him in his armour, and so took his horse and rode after the damosel.

When she saw him come nigh, she said, Away, kitchen knave, out of the wind, for the smell of
thy bawdy clothes grieveth me. Alas, she said, that ever such a knave should by mishap slay
so good a knight as thou hast done, but all this is thine unhappiness. But here by is one shall
pay thee all thy payment, and therefore yet I counsel thee, flee. It may happen me, said Beaumains,
to be beaten or slain, but I warn you, fair damosel, I will not flee away, a nor leave your
company, for all that ye can say; for ever ye say that they will kill me or beat me, but howsomever
it happeneth I escape, and they lie on the ground. Alas, said the Green Knight, that is great
pity, that so noble a knight as he was should so unhappily be slain, and namely of a knave's
hand, as ye say that he is. That saw Beaumains, and therewithal he alighted, and they rushed
together like two mighty kemps a long while, and sore they bled both. Fie upon thee, false
kitchen page, I will never pray thee to save his life, for I will never be so much in thy danger.
Then shall he die, said Beaumains. Not so hardy, thou bawdy knave, said the damosel, that thou
slay him. Alas, said the Green Knight, suffer me not to die for a fair word may save me. Fair
knight, said the Green Knight, save my life, and I will forgive thee the death of my brother,
and for ever to become thy man, and thirty knights that hold of me for ever shall do you service.
In the devil's name, said the damosel, that such a bawdy kitchen knave should have thee and
thirty knights' service.

Sir knight, said Beaumains, all this availeth thee not, but if my damosel speak with me for
thy life. And therewithal he made a semblant to slay him. Let be, said the damosel, thou bawdy
knave; slay him not, for an thou do thou shalt repent it. Then said the damosel, Me repenteth,
Green Knight, of your damage, and of your brother's death, the Black Knight, for of your help
I had great mister, for I dread me sore to pass this forest.

AND ever she rebuked Beaumains, and would not suffer him to sit at her table, but as the Green
Knight took him and sat him at a side table. Marvel methinketh, said the Green Knight to the
damosel, why ye rebuke this noble knight as ye do, for I warn you, damosel, he is a full noble
knight, and I know no knight is able to match him; therefore ye do great wrong to rebuke him,
for he shall do you right good service, for whatsomever he maketh himself, ye shall prove at
the end that he is come of a noble blood and of king's lineage. Fie, fie, said the damosel,
it is shame for you to say of him such worship. Truly, said the Green Knight, it were shame
for me to say of him any disworship, for he hath proved himself a better knight than I am,
yet have I met with many knights in my days, and never or this time have I found no knight
his match. And so that night they yede unto rest, and all that night the Green Knight commanded
thirty knights privily to watch Beaumains, for to keep him from all treason.

And so on the morn they all arose, and heard their mass and brake their fast; and then they
took their horses and rode on their way, and the Green Knight conveyed them through the forest;
and there the Green Knight said, My lord Beaumains, I and these thirty knights shall be always
at your summons, both early and late, at your calling and whither that ever ye will send us.
It is well said, said Beaumains; when that I call upon you ye must yield you unto King Arthur,
and all your knights. If that ye so command us, we shall be ready at all times, said the Green
Knight. Fie, fie upon thee, in the devil's name, said the damosel, that any good knights should
be obedient unto a kitchen knave. So then departed the Green Knight and the damosel. Damosel,
said Beaumains, who is afeard let him flee, for it were shame to turn again sithen I have ridden
so long with you. Well, said the damosel, ye shall soon, whether ye will or not.

SO within a while they saw a tower as white as any snow, well matchecold all about, and double
dyked. And over the tower gate there hung a fifty shields of divers colours, and under that
tower there was a fair meadow. And therein were many knights and squires to behold, scaffolds
and pavilions; for there upon the morn should be a great tournament: and the lord of the tower
was in his castle and looked out at a window, and saw a damosel, a dwarf, and a knight armed
at all points. So God me help, said the lord, with that knight will I joust, for I see that
he is a knight-errant. And so he armed him and horsed him hastily. And when he was on horseback
with his shield and his spear, it was all red, both his horse and his harness, and all that
to him longeth. And when that he came nigh him he weened it had been his brother the Black
Knight; and then he cried aloud, Brother, what do ye in these marches? Nay, nay, said the damosel,
it is not he; this is but a kitchen knave that was brought up for alms in King Arthur's court.
Nevertheless, said the Red Knight, I will speak with him or he depart. Ah, said the damosel,
this knave hath killed thy brother, and Sir Kay named him Beaumains, and this horse and this
harness was thy brother's, the Black Knight. Also I saw thy brother the Green Knight overcome
of his hands. Now may ye be revenged upon him, for I may never be quit of him.

With this either knights departed in sunder, and they came together with all their might, and
either of their horses fell to the earth, and they avoided their horses, and put their shields
afore them and drew their swords, and either gave other sad strokes, now here, now there, rasing,
tracing, foining, and hurling like two boars, the space of two hours. And then she cried on
high to the Red Knight, Alas, thou noble Red Knight, think what worship hath followed thee,
let never a kitchen knave endure thee so long as he doth. Then the Red Knight waxed wroth and
doubled his strokes, and hurt Beaumains wonderly sore, that the blood ran down to the ground,
that it was wonder to see that strong battle. Yet at the last Sir Beaumains struck him to the
earth, and as he would have slain the Red Knight, he cried mercy, saying, Noble knight, slay
me not, and I shall yield me to thee with fifty knights with me that be at my commandment.
And I forgive thee all the despite that thou hast done to me, and the death of my brother the
Black Knight. All this availeth not, said Beaumains, but if my damosel pray me to save thy
life. And therewith he made semblant to strike off his head. Let be, thou Beaumains, slay him
not, for he is a noble knight, and not so hardy, upon thine head, but thou save him.

Then Beaumains bade the Red Knight, Stand up, and thank the damosel now of thy life. Then the
Red Knight prayed him to see his castle, and to be there all night. So the damosel then granted
him, and there they had merry cheer. But always the damosel spake many foul words unto Beaumains,
whereof the Red Knight had great marvel; and all that night the Red Knight made three score
knights to watch Beaumains, that he should have no shame nor villainy. And upon the morn they
heard mass and dined, and the Red Knight came before Beaumains with his three score knights,
and there he proffered him his homage and fealty at all times, he and his knights to do him
service. So Sir Beaumains departed and the damosel, and ever she rode chiding him in the foulest
manner. Well, said she, right soon there shall meet a knight shall pay thee all thy wages,
for he is the most man of worship of the world, except King Arthur. I will well, said Beaumains,
the more he is of worship, the more shall be my worship to have ado with him.

Then anon they were ware where was afore them a city rich and fair. And betwixt them and the
city a mile and an half there was a fair meadow that seemed new mown, and therein were many
pavilions fair to behold. Lo, said the damosel, yonder is a lord that owneth yonder city, and
his custom is, when the weather is fair, to lie in this meadow to joust and tourney. And ever
there be about him five hundred knights and gentlemen of arms, and there be all manner of games
that any gentleman can devise. That goodly lord, said Beaumains, would I fain see. Thou shalt
see him time enough, said the damosel, and so as she rode near she espied the pavilion where
he was. Lo, said she, seest thou yonder pavilion that is all of the colour of Inde, and all
manner of thing that there is about, men and women, and horses trapped, shields and spears
were all of the colour of Inde, and his name is Sir Persant of Inde, the most lordliest knight
that ever thou lookedst on. It may well be, said Beaumains, but be he never so stout a knight,
in this field I shall abide till that I see him under his shield. Ah, fool, said she, thou
wert better flee betimes. Why, said Beaumains, an he be such a knight as ye make him, he will
not set upon me with all his men, or with his five hundred knights. For an there come no more
but one at once, I shall him not fail whilst my life lasteth. Fie, fie, said the damosel, that
ever such a stinking knave should blow such a boast. Damosel, he said, ye are to blame so to
rebuke me, for I had liefer do five battles than so to be rebuked, let him come and then let
him do his worst.

Sir, she said, I marvel what thou art and of what kin thou art come; boldly thou speakest,
and boldly thou hast done, that have I seen; therefore I pray thee save thyself an thou mayest,
for thy horse and thou have had great travail, and I dread we dwell over long from the siege,
for it is but hence seven mile, and all perilous passages we are passed save all only this
passage; and here I dread me sore lest ye shall catch some hurt, therefore I would ye were
hence, that ye were not bruised nor hurt with this strong knight. But I let you wit that Sir
Persant of Inde is nothing of might nor strength unto the knight that laid the siege about
my lady. As for that, said Sir Beaumains, be it as it be may. For sithen I am come so nigh
this knight I will prove his might or I depart from him, and else I shall be shamed an I now
withdraw me from him. And therefore, damosel, have ye no doubt by the grace of God I shall
so deal with this knight that within two hours after noon I shall deliver him. And then shall
we come to the siege by daylight. Alas, she said, fair Beaumains, forgive me all that I have
missaid or done against thee. With all my heart, said he, I forgive it you, for ye did nothing
but as ye should do, for all your evil words pleased me; and damosel, said Beaumains, since
it liketh you to say thus fair unto me, wit ye well it gladdeth my heart greatly, and now meseemeth
there is no knight living but I am able enough for him.

WITH this Sir Persant of Inde had espied them as they hoved in the field, and knightly he sent
to them whether he came in war or in peace. Say to thy lord, said Beaumains, I take no force,
but whether as him list himself. So the messenger went again unto Sir Persant and told him
all his answer. Well then will I have ado with him to the utterance, and so he purveyed him
and rode against him. Thus they fought two hours and more, that their shields and their hauberks
were all forhewen, and in many steads they were wounded. So at the last Sir Beaumains smote
him through the cost of the body, and then he retrayed him here and there, and knightly maintained
his battle long time. And at the last, though him loath were, Beaumains smote Sir Persant above
upon the helm, that he fell grovelling to the earth; and then he leapt upon him overthwart
and unlaced his helm to have slain him.

Then Sir Persant yielded him and asked him mercy. With that came the damosel and prayed to
save his life. I will well, for it were pity this noble knight should die. Gramercy, said Persant,
gentle knight and damosel. For certainly now I wot well it was ye that slew my brother the
Black Knight at the black thorn; he was a full noble knight, his name was Sir Percard. Also
I am sure that ye are he that won mine other brother the Green Knight, his name was Sir Pertolepe.
Also ye won my brother the Red Knight, Sir Perimones. And now since ye have won these, this
shall I do for to please you: ye shall have homage and fealty of me, and an hundred knights
to be always at your commandment, to go and ride where ye will command us. And so they went
unto Sir Persant's pavilion and drank the wine, and ate spices, and afterward Sir Persant made
him to rest upon a bed until supper time, and after supper to bed again. When Beaumains was
abed, Sir Persant had a lady, a fair daughter of eighteen year of age, and there he called
her unto him, and charged her and commanded her upon his blessing to go unto the knight's bed,
and lie down by his side, and make him no strange cheer, but good cheer, and take him in thine
arms and kiss him, and look that this be done, I charge you, as ye will have my love and my
good will. So Sir Persant's daughter did as her father bade her, and so she went unto Sir Beaumains'
bed, and privily she dispoiled her, and laid her down by him, and then he awoke and saw her,
and asked her what she was. Sir, she said, I am Sir Persant's daughter, that by the commandment
of my father am come hither. Be ye a maid or a wife? said he. Sir, she said, I am a clean maiden.
God defend, said he, that I should defoil you to do Sir Persant such a shame; therefore, fair
damosel, arise out of this bed or else I will. Sir, she said, I came not to you by mine own
will, but as I was commanded. Alas, said Sir Beaumains, I were a shameful knight an I would
do your father any disworship; and so he kissed her, and so she departed and came unto Sir
Persant her father, and told him all how she had sped. Truly, said Sir Persant, whatsomever
he be, he is come of a noble blood. And so we leave them there till on the morn.

AND so on the morn the damosel and Sir Beaumains heard mass and brake their fast, and so took
their leave. Yea, sir, said she, and my lady my sister's name is Dame Lionesse. Now shall I
tell you, said Sir Persant, this Red Knight of the Red Laund hath lain long at the siege, well-nigh
this two years, and many times he might have had her an he had would, but he prolongeth the
time to this intent, for to have Sir Launcelot du Lake to do battle with him, or Sir Tristram,
or Sir Lamorak de Galis, or Sir Gawaine, and this is his tarrying so long at the siege. Sir,
said Beaumains, I thank you for your good will, for I am better sped, for certainly the noble
knight Sir Launcelot made me knight. Ah, said Sir Persant, of a more renowned knight might
ye not be made knight; for of all knights he may be called chief of knighthood; and so all
the world saith, that betwixt three knights is departed clearly knighthood, that is Launcelot
du Lake, Sir Tristram de Liones, and Sir Lamorak de Galis: these bear now the renown.

Sir, said Beaumains, I would fain be of good fame and of knighthood. And I let you wit I came
of good men, for I dare say my father was a noble man, and so that ye will keep it in close,
and this damosel, I will tell you of what kin I am. We will not discover you, said they both,
till ye command us, by the faith we owe unto God. Truly then, said he, my name is Gareth of
Orkney, and King Lot was my father, and my mother is King Arthur's sister, her name is Dame
Morgawse, and Sir Gawaine is my brother, and Sir Agravaine and Sir Gaheris, and I am the youngest
of them all. And yet wot not King Arthur nor Sir Gawaine what I am.

SO the book saith that the lady that was besieged had word of her sister's coming by the dwarf,
and a knight with her, and how he had passed all the perilous passages. What manner a man is
he? said the lady. He is a noble knight, truly, madam, said the dwarf, and but a young man,
but he is as likely a man as ever ye saw any. What is he? said the damosel, and of what kin
is he come, and of whom was he made knight? Madam, said the dwarf, he is the king's son of
Orkney, but his name I will not tell you as at this time; but wit ye well, of Sir Launcelot
was he made knight, for of none other would he be made knight, and Sir Kay named him Beaumains.
How escaped he, said the lady, from the brethren of Persant? Madam, he said, as a noble knight
should. First, he slew two brethren at a passage of a water. Ah! said she, they were good knights,
but they were murderers, the one hight Gherard le Breuse, and the other knight hight Sir Arnold
le Breuse. Then, madam, he recountered with the Black Knight, and slew him in plain battle,
and so he took his horse and his armour and fought with the Green Knight and won him in plain
battle, and in like wise he served the Red Knight, and after in the same wise he served the
Blue Knight and won him in plain battle. Then, said the lady, he hath overcome Sir Persant
of Inde, one of the noblest knights of the world, and the dwarf said, He hath won all the four
brethren and slain the Black Knight, and yet he did more to-fore: he overthrew Sir Kay and
left him nigh dead upon the ground; also he did a great battle with Sir Launcelot, and there
they departed on even hands: and then Sir Launcelot made him knight.

Dwarf, said the lady, I am glad of these tidings, therefore go thou in an hermitage of mine
hereby, and there shalt thou bear with thee of my wine in two flagons of silver, they are of
two gallons, and also two cast of bread with fat venison baked, and dainty fowls; and a cup
of gold here I deliver thee, that is rich and precious; and bear all this to mine hermitage,
and put it in the hermit's hands. And sithen go thou unto my sister and greet her well, and
commend me unto that gentle knight, and pray him to eat and to drink and make him strong, and
say ye him I thank him of his courtesy and goodness, that he would take upon him such labour
for me that never did him bounty nor courtesy. Also pray him that he be of good heart and courage,
for he shall meet with a full noble knight, but he is neither of bounty, courtesy, nor gentleness;
for he attendeth unto nothing but to murder, and that is the cause I cannot praise him nor
love him.

So this dwarf departed, and came to Sir Persant, where he found the damosel Linet and Sir Beaumains,
and there he told them all as ye have heard; and then they took their leave, but Sir Persant
took an ambling hackney and conveyed them on their ways, and then beleft them to God; and so
within a little while they came to that hermitage, and there they drank the wine, and ate the
venison and the fowls baken. And so when they had repasted them well, the dwarf returned again
with his vessel unto the castle again; and there met with him the Red Knight of the Red Launds,
and asked him from whence that he came, and where he had been. Sir, said the dwarf, I have
been with my lady's sister of this castle, and she hath been at King Arthur's court, and brought
a knight with her. Then I account her travail but lost; for though she had brought with her
Sir Launcelot, Sir Tristram, Sir Lamorak, or Sir Gawaine, I would think myself good enough
for them all.

It may well be, said the dwarf, but this knight hath passed all the perilous passages, and
slain the Black Knight and other two more, and won the Green Knight, the Red Knight, and the
Blue Knight. Then is he one of these four that I have afore rehearsed. He is none of those,
said the dwarf, but he is a king's son. What is his name? said the Red Knight of the Red Launds.
That will I not tell you, said the dwarf, but Sir Kay upon scorn named him Beaumains. I care
not, said the knight, what knight so ever he be, for I shall soon deliver him. And if I ever
match him he shall have a shameful death as many other have had. That were pity, said the dwarf,
and it is marvel that ye make such shameful war upon noble knights.

NOW leave we the knight and the dwarf, and speak we of Beaumains, that all night lay in the
hermitage; and upon the morn he and the damosel Linet heard their mass and brake their fast.
And then they took their horses and rode throughout a fair forest; and then they came to a
plain, and saw where were many pavilions and tents, and a fair castle, and there was much smoke
and great noise; and when they came near the siege Sir Beaumains espied upon great trees, as
he rode, how there hung full goodly armed knights by the neck, and their shields about their
necks with their swords, and gilt spurs upon their heels, and so there hung nigh a forty knights
shamefully with full rich arms.

Then Sir Beaumains abated his countenance and said, What meaneth this? Fair sir, said the damosel,
abate not your cheer for all this sight, for ye must courage yourself, or else ye be all shent,
for all these knights came hither to this siege to rescue my sister Dame Lionesse, and when
the Red Knight of the Red Launds had overcome them, he put them to this shameful death without
mercy and pity. And in the same wise he will serve you but if you quit you the better.

Now Jesu defend me, said Beaumains, from such a villainous death and shenship of arms. For
rather than I should so be faren withal, I would rather be slain manly in plain battle. So
were ye better, said the damosel; for trust not, in him is no courtesy, but all goeth to the
death or shameful murder, and that is pity, for he is a full likely man, well made of body,
and a full noble knight of prowess, and a lord of great lands and possessions. Truly, said
Beaumains, he may well be a good knight, but he useth shameful customs, and it is marvel that
he endureth so long that none of the noble knights of my lord Arthur's have not dealt with him.

And then they rode to the dykes, and saw them double dyked with full warlike walls; and there
were lodged many great lords nigh the walls; and there was great noise of minstrelsy; and the
sea beat upon the one side of the walls, where were many ships and mariners' noise with "hale
and how." But, sir, I pray you, said the damosel Linet, blow ye not the horn till it be high
noon, for now it is about prime, and now increaseth his might, that as men say he hath seven
men's strength. And then there leapt out knights out of their tents and pavilions, and they
within the castle looked over the walls and out at windows.

CHAPTER XVI. How the two knights met together, and of their talking, and how they began their
battle.

SIR, said the damosel Linet unto Sir Beaumains, look ye be glad and light, for yonder is your
deadly enemy, and at yonder window is my lady, my sister, Dame Lionesse. Where? said Beaumains.
Yonder, said the damosel, and pointed with her finger. That is truth, said Beaumains. She beseemeth
afar the fairest lady that ever I looked upon; and truly, he said, I ask no better quarrel
than now for to do battle, for truly she shall be my lady, and for her I will fight. And ever
he looked up to the window with glad countenance, and the Lady Lionesse made curtsey to him
down to the earth, with holding up both their hands.

With that the Red Knight of the Red Launds called to Sir Beaumains, Leave, sir knight, thy
looking, and behold me, I counsel thee; for I warn thee well she is my lady, and for her I
have done many strong battles. If thou have so done, said Beaumains, meseemeth it was but waste
labour, for she loveth none of thy fellowship, and thou to love that loveth not thee is but
great folly. For an I understood that she were not glad of my coming, I would be advised or
I did battle for her. But I understand by the besieging of this castle she may forbear thy
fellowship. And therefore wit thou well, thou Red Knight of the Red Launds, I love her, and
will rescue her, or else to die. Sayst thou that? said the Red Knight, meseemeth thou ought
of reason to be ware by yonder knights that thou sawest hang upon yonder trees. Fie for shame,
said Beaumains, that ever thou shouldest say or do so evil, for in that thou shamest thyself
and knighthood, and thou mayst be sure there will no lady love thee that knoweth thy wicked
customs. And now thou weenest that the sight of these hanged knights should fear me. Nay truly,
not so; that shameful sight causeth me to have courage and hardiness against thee, more than
I would have had against thee an thou wert a well-ruled knight. Make thee ready, said the Red
Knight of the Red Launds, and talk no longer with me.

Then Sir Beaumains bade the damosel go from him; and then they put their spears in their rests,
and came together with all their might that they had both, and either smote other in midst
of their shields that the paitrelles, surcingles, and cruppers brast, and fell to the earth
both, and the reins of their bridles in their hands; and so they lay a great while sore astonied,
that all that were in the castle and in the siege weened their necks had been broken; and then
many a stranger and other said the strange knight was a big man, and a noble jouster, for or
now we saw never no knight match the Red Knight of the Red Launds: thus they said, both within
the castle and without. So when they had rested them a while they yede to battle again, tracing,
racing, foining as two boars. And at some time they took their run as it had been two rams,
and hurtled together that sometime they fell grovelling to the earth: and at some time they
were so amazed that either took other's sword instead of his own.

Thus they endured till evensong time, that there was none that beheld them might know whether
was like to win the battle; and their armour was so forhewn that men might see their naked
sides; and in other places they were naked, but ever the naked places they did defend. And
the Red Knight was a wily knight of war, and his wily fighting taught Sir Beaumains to be wise;
but he abought it full sore or he did espy his fighting.

And thus by assent of them both they granted either other to rest; and so they set them down
upon two mole-hills there beside the fighting place, and either of them unlaced his helm, and
took the cold wind; for either of their pages was fast by them, to come when they called to
unlace their harness and to set them on again at their commandment.

Then cried the maiden Linet on high: O Sir Beaumains, where is thy courage become? Alas, my
lady my sister beholdeth thee, and she sobbeth and weepeth, that maketh mine heart heavy.

Then Sir Beaumains bethought him upon the knights that he had made to be hanged shamefully,
and then he said: I may not with my worship save thy life, for the shameful deaths that thou
hast caused many full good knights to die. Sir, said the Red Knight of the Red Launds, hold
your hand and ye shall know the causes why I put them to so shameful a death. Say on, said
Sir Beaumains. Sir, I loved once a lady, a fair damosel, and she had her brother slain; and
she said it was Sir Launcelot du Lake, or else Sir Gawaine; and she prayed me as that I loved
her heartily, that I would make her a promise by the faith of my knighthood, for to labour
daily in arms unto I met with one of them; and all that I might overcome I should put them
unto a villainous death; and this is the cause that I have put all these knights to death,
and so I ensured her to do all the villainy unto King Arthur's knights, and that I should take
vengeance upon all these knights. And, sir, now I will thee tell that every day my strength
increaseth till noon, and all this time have I seven men's strength.

THEN came there many earls, and barons, and noble knights, and prayed that knight to save his
life, and take him to your prisoner. And all they fell upon their knees, and prayed him of
mercy, and that he would save his life; and, Sir, they all said, it were fairer of him to take
homage and fealty, and let him hold his lands of you than for to slay him; by his death ye
shall have none advantage, and his misdeeds that be done may not be undone; and therefore he
shall make amends to all parties, and we all will become your men and do you homage and fealty.
Fair lords, said Beaumains, wit you well I am full loath to slay this knight, nevertheless
he hath done passing ill and shamefully; but insomuch all that he did was at a lady's request
I blame him the less; and so for your sake I will release him that he shall have his life upon
this covenant, that he go within the castle, and yield him there to the lady, and if she will
forgive and quit him, I will well; with this he make her amends of all the trespass he hath
done against her and her lands. And also, when that is done, that ye go unto the court of King
Arthur, and there that ye ask Sir Launcelot mercy, and Sir Gawaine, for the evil will ye have
had against them. Sir, said the Red Knight of the Red Launds, all this will I do as ye command,
and siker assurance and borrows ye shall have. And so then when the assurance was made, he
made his homage and fealty, and all those earls and barons with him.

And then the maiden Linet came to Sir Beaumains, and unarmed him and searched his wounds, and
stinted his blood, and in likewise she did to the Red Knight of the Red Launds. And there they
sojourned ten days in their tents; and the Red Knight made his lords and servants to do all
the pleasure that they might unto Sir Beaumains. And so within a while the Red Knight of the
Red Launds yede unto the castle, and put him in her grace. And so she received him upon sufficient
surety, so all her hurts were well restored of all that she could complain. And then he departed
unto the court of King Arthur, and there openly the Red Knight of the Red Launds put him in
the mercy of Sir Launcelot and Sir Gawaine, and there he told openly how he was overcome and
by whom, and also he told all the battles from the beginning unto the ending. Have ye no marvel,
said Sir Launcelot, for ye shall right well wit that he is come of a full noble blood; and
as for his might and hardiness, there be but few now living that is so mighty as he is, and
so noble of prowess. It seemeth by you, said King Arthur, that ye know his name, and from whence
he is come, and of what blood he is. I suppose I do so, said Launcelot, or else I would not
have given him the order of knighthood; but he gave me such charge at that time that I should
never discover him until he required me, or else it be known openly by some other.

NOW turn we unto Sir Beaumains that desired of Linet that he might see her sister, his lady.
Sir, she said, I would fain ye saw her. Then Sir Beaumains all armed him, and took his horse
and his spear, and rode straight unto the castle. And when he came to the gate he found there
many men armed, and pulled up the drawbridge and drew the port close.

Then marvelled he why they would not suffer him to enter. And then he looked up to the window;
and there he saw the fair Lionesse that said on high: Go thy way, Sir Beaumains, for as yet
thou shalt not have wholly my love, unto the time that thou be called one of the number of
the worthy knights. And therefore go labour in worship this twelvemonth, and then thou shalt
hear new tidings. Alas, fair lady, said Beaumains, I have not deserved that ye should show
me this strangeness, and I had weened that I should have right good cheer with you, and unto
my power I have deserved thank, and well I am sure I have bought your love with part of the
best blood within my body. Fair courteous knight, said Dame Lionesse, be not displeased nor
over-hasty; for wit you well your great travail nor good love shall not be lost, for I consider
your great travail and labour, your bounty and your goodness as me ought to do. And therefore
go on your way, and look that ye be of good comfort, for all shall be for your worship and
for the best, and perdy a twelvemonth will soon be done, and trust me, fair knight, I shall
be true to you, and never to betray you, but to my death I shall love you and none other. And
therewithal she turned her from the window, and Sir Beaumains rode awayward from the castle,
making great dole, and so he rode here and there and wist not where he rode, till it was dark
night. And then it happened him to come to a poor man's house, and there he was harboured all
that night.

But Sir Beaumains had no rest, but wallowed and writhed for the love of the lady of the castle.
And so upon the morrow he took his horse and rode until underne, and then he came to a broad
water, and thereby was a great lodge, and there he alighted to sleep and laid his head upon
the shield, and betook his horse to the dwarf, and commanded him to watch all night.

Now turn we to the lady of the same castle, that thought much upon Beaumains, and then she
called unto her Sir Gringamore her brother, and prayed him in all manner, as he loved her heartily,
that he would ride after Sir Beaumains: And ever have ye wait upon him till ye may find him
sleeping, for I am sure in his heaviness he will alight down in some place, and lie him down
to sleep; and therefore have ye your wait upon him, and in the priviest manner ye can, take
his dwarf, and go ye your way with him as fast as ever ye may or Sir Beaumains awake. For my
sister Linet telleth me that he can tell of what kindred he is come, and what is his right
name. And the meanwhile I and my sister will ride unto your castle to await when ye bring with
you the dwarf. And then when ye have brought him unto your castle, I will have him in examination
myself. Unto the time that I know what is his right name, and of what kindred he is come, shall
I never be merry at my heart. Sister, said Sir Gringamore, all this shall be done after your
intent.

And so he rode all the other day and the night till that he found Sir Beaumains lying by a
water, and his head upon his shield, for to sleep. And then when he saw Sir Beaumains fast
asleep, he came stilly stalking behind the dwarf, and plucked him fast under his arm, and so
he rode away with him as fast as ever he might unto his own castle. And this Sir Gringamore's
arms were all black, and that to him longeth. But ever as he rode with the dwarf toward his
castle, he cried unto his lord and prayed him of help. And therewith awoke Sir Beaumains, and
up he leapt lightly, and saw where Sir Gringamore rode his way with the dwarf, and so Sir Gringamore
rode out of his sight.

THEN Sir Beaumains put on his helm anon, and buckled his shield, and took his horse, and rode
after him all that ever he might ride through marshes, and fields, and great dales, that many
times his horse and he plunged over the head in deep mires, for he knew not the way, but took
the gainest way in that woodness, that many times he was like to perish. And at the last him
happened to come to a fair green way, and there he met with a poor man of the country, whom
he saluted and asked him whether he met not with a knight upon a black horse and all black
harness, a little dwarf sitting behind him with heavy cheer. Sir, said the poor man, here by
me came Sir Gringamore the knight, with such a dwarf mourning as ye say; and therefore I rede
you not follow him, for he is one of the periloust knights of the world, and his castle is
here nigh hand but two mile; therefore we advise you ride not after Sir Gringamore, but if
ye owe him good will.

So leave we Sir Beaumains riding toward the castle, and speak we of Sir Gringamore and the
dwarf. Anon as the dwarf was come to the castle, Dame Lionesse and Dame Linet her sister, asked
the dwarf where was his master born, and of what lineage he was come. And but if thou tell
me, said Dame Lionesse, thou shalt never escape this castle, but ever here to be prisoner.
As for that, said the dwarf, I fear not greatly to tell his name and of what kin he is come.
Wit you well he is a king's son, and his mother is sister to King Arthur, and he is brother
to the good knight Sir Gawaine, and his name is Sir Gareth of Orkney. And now I have told you
his right name, I pray you, fair lady, let me go to my lord again, for he will never out of
this country until that he have me again. And if he be angry he will do much harm or that he
be stint, and work you wrack in this country. As for that threatening, said Sir Gringamore,
be it as it be may, we will go to dinner. And so they washed and went to meat, and made them
merry and well at ease, and because the Lady Lionesse of the castle was there, they made great
joy. Truly, madam, said Linet unto her sister, well may he be a king's son, for he hath many
good tatches on him, for he is courteous and mild, and the most suffering man that ever I met
withal. For I dare say there was never gentlewoman reviled man in so foul a manner as I have
rebuked him; and at all times he gave me goodly and meek answers again.

And as they sat thus talking, there came Sir Gareth in at the gate with an angry countenance,
and his sword drawn in his hand, and cried aloud that all the castle might hear it, saying:
Thou traitor, Sir Gringamore, deliver me my dwarf again, or by the faith that I owe to the
order of knighthood, I shall do thee all the harm that I can. Then Sir Gringamore looked out
at a window and said, Sir Gareth of Orkney, leave thy boasting words, for thou gettest not
thy dwarf again. Thou coward knight, said Sir Gareth, bring him with thee, and come and do
battle with me, and win him and take him. So will I do, said Sir Gringamore, an me list, but
for all thy great words thou gettest him not. Ah! fair brother, said Dame Lionesse, I would
he had his dwarf again, for I would he were not wroth, for now he hath told me all my desire
I keep no more of the dwarf. And also, brother, he hath done much for me, and delivered me
from the Red Knight of the Red Launds, and therefore, brother, I owe him my service afore all
knights living. And wit ye well that I love him before all other, and full fain I would speak
with him. But in nowise I would that he wist what I were, but that I were another strange lady.

Well, said Sir Gringamore, sithen I know now your will, I will obey now unto him. And right
therewithal he went down unto Sir Gareth, and said: Sir, I cry you mercy, and all that I have
misdone I will amend it at your will. And therefore I pray you that ye would alight, and take
such cheer as I can make you in this castle. Shall I have my dwarf? said Sir Gareth. Yea, sir,
and all the pleasaunce that I can make you, for as soon as your dwarf told me what ye were
and of what blood ye are come, and what noble deeds ye have done in these marches, then I repented
of my deeds. And then Sir Gareth alighted, and there came his dwarf and took his horse. O my
fellow, said Sir Gareth, I have had many adventures for thy sake. And so Sir Gringamore took
him by the hand and led him into the hall where his own wife was. And Sir Gareth thought many
times, Jesu, would that the lady of the Castle Perilous were so fair as she was. There were
all manner of games and plays, of dancing and singing. And ever the more Sir Gareth beheld
that lady, the more he loved her; and so he burned in love that he was past himself in his
reason; and forth toward night they yede unto supper, and Sir Gareth might not eat, for his
love was so hot that he wist not where he was.

All these looks espied Sir Gringamore, and then at-after supper he called his sister Dame Lionesse
into a chamber, and said: Fair sister, I have well espied your countenance betwixt you and
this knight, and I will, sister, that ye wit he is a full noble knight, and if ye can make
him to abide here I will do him all the pleasure that I can, for an ye were better than ye
are, ye were well bywaryd upon him. Fair brother, said Dame Lionesse, I understand well that
the knight is good, and come he is of a noble house. Notwithstanding, I will assay him better,
howbeit I am most beholden to him of any earthly man; for he hath had great labour for my love,
and passed many a dangerous passage.

Right so Sir Gringamore went unto Sir Gareth, and said, Sir, make ye good cheer, for ye shall
have none other cause, for this lady, my sister, is yours at all times, her worship saved,
for wit ye well she loveth you as well as ye do her, and better if better may be. An I wist
that, said Sir Gareth, there lived not a gladder man than I would be. Upon my worship, said
Sir Gringamore, trust unto my promise; and as long as it liketh you ye shall sojourn with me,
and this lady shall be with us daily and nightly to make you all the cheer that she can. I
will well, said Sir Gareth, for I have promised to be nigh this country this twelvemonth. And
well I am sure King Arthur and other noble knights will find me where that I am within this
twelvemonth. For I shall be sought and found, if that I be alive. And then the noble knight
Sir Gareth went unto the Dame Lionesse, which he then much loved, and kissed her many times,
and either made great joy of other. And there she promised him her love certainly, to love
him and none other the days of her life. Then this lady, Dame Lionesse, by the assent of her
brother, told Sir Gareth all the truth what she was, and how she was the same lady that he
did battle for, and how she was lady of the Castle Perilous, and there she told him how she
caused her brother to take away his dwarf, [*2]for this cause, to know the certainty what was
your name, and of what kin ye were come.

[*2] Printed by Caxton as part of chap. xxii.

AND then she let fetch to-fore him Linet, the damosel that had ridden with him many wildsome
ways. Then was Sir Gareth more gladder than he was to-fore. And then they troth-plight each
other to love, and never to fail whiles their life lasteth. And so they burnt both in love,
that they were accorded to abate their lusts secretly. And there Dame Lionesse counselled Sir
Gareth to sleep in none other place but in the hall. And there she promised him to come to
his bed a little afore midnight.

This counsel was not so privily kept but it was understood; for they were but young both, and
tender of age, and had not used none such crafts to-fore. Wherefore the damosel Linet was a
little displeased, and she thought her sister Dame Lionesse was a little over-hasty, that she
might not abide the time of her marriage; and for saving their worship, she thought to abate
their hot lusts. And so she let ordain by her subtle crafts that they had not their intents
neither with other, as in their delights, until they were married. And so it passed on. At-after
supper was made clean avoidance, that every lord and lady should go unto his rest. But Sir
Gareth said plainly he would go no farther than the hall, for in such places, he said, was
convenient for an errant-knight to take his rest in; and so there were ordained great couches,
and thereon feather beds, and there laid him down to sleep; and within a while came Dame Lionesse,
wrapped in a mantle furred with ermine, and laid her down beside Sir Gareth. And therewithal
he began to kiss her. And then he looked afore him, and there he apperceived and saw come an
armed knight, with many lights about him; and this knight had a long gisarm in his hand, and
made grim countenance to smite him. When Sir Gareth saw him come in that wise, he leapt out
of his bed, and gat in his hand his sword, and leapt straight toward that knight. And when
the knight saw Sir Gareth come so fiercely upon him, he smote him with a foin through the thick
of the thigh that the wound was a shaftmon broad and had cut a-two many veins and sinews. And
therewithal Sir Gareth smote him upon the helm such a buffet that he fell grovelling; and then
he leapt over him and unlaced his helm, and smote off his head from the body. And then he bled
so fast that he might not stand, but so he laid him down upon his bed, and there he swooned
and lay as he had been dead.

Then Dame Lionesse cried aloud, that her brother Sir Gringamore heard, and came down. And when
he saw Sir Gareth so shamefully wounded he was sore displeased, and said: I am shamed that
this noble knight is thus honoured. Sir, said Sir Gringamore, how may this be, that ye be here,
and this noble knight wounded? Brother, she said, I can not tell you, for it was not done by
me, nor by mine assent. For he is my lord and I am his, and he must be mine husband; therefore,
my brother, I will that ye wit I shame me not to be with him, nor to do him all the pleasure
that I can. Sister, said Sir Gringamore, and I will that ye wit it, and Sir Gareth both, that
it was never done by me, nor by my assent that this unhappy deed was done. And there they staunched
his bleeding as well as they might, and great sorrow made Sir Gringamore and Dame Lionesse.

And forthwithal came Dame Linet, and took up the head in the sight of them all, and anointed
it with an ointment thereas it was smitten off; and in the same wise she did to the other part
thereas the head stuck, and then she set it together, and it stuck as fast as ever it did.
And the knight arose lightly up, and the damosel Linet put him in her chamber. All this saw
Sir Gringamore and Dame Lionesse, and so did Sir Gareth; and well he espied that it was the
damosel Linet, that rode with him through the perilous passages. Ah well, damosel, said Sir
Gareth, I weened ye would not have done as ye have done. My lord Gareth, said Linet, all that
I have done I will avow, and all that I have done shall be for your honour and worship, and
to us all. And so within a while Sir Gareth was nigh whole, and waxed light and jocund, and
sang, danced, and gamed; and he and Dame Lionesse were so hot in burning love that they made
their covenant at the tenth night after, that she should come to his bed. And because he was
wounded afore, he laid his armour and his sword nigh his bed's side.

RIGHT as she promised she came; and she was not so soon in his bed but she espied an armed
knight coming toward the bed: therewithal she warned Sir Gareth, and lightly through the good
help of Dame Lionesse he was armed; and they hurtled together with great ire and malice all
about the hall; and there was great light as it had been the number of twenty torches both
before and behind, so that Sir Gareth strained him, so that his old wound brast again a-bleeding;
but he was hot and courageous and took no keep, but with his great force he struck down that
knight, and voided his helm, and struck off his head. Then he hewed the head in an hundred
pieces. And when he had done so he took up all those pieces, and threw them out at a window
into the ditches of the castle; and by this done he was so faint that unnethes he might stand
for bleeding. And by when he was almost unarmed he fell in a deadly swoon on the floor; and
then Dame Lionesse cried so that Sir Gringamore heard; and when he came and found Sir Gareth
in that plight he made great sorrow; and there he awaked Sir Gareth, and gave him a drink that
relieved him wonderly well; but the sorrow that Dame Lionesse made there may no tongue tell,
for she so fared with herself as she would have died.

Right so came this damosel Linet before them all, and she had fetched all the gobbets of the
head that Sir Gareth had thrown out at a window, and there she anointed them as she had done
to-fore, and set them together again. Well, damosel Linet, said Sir Gareth, I have not deserved
all this despite that ye do unto me. Sir knight, she said, I have nothing done but I will avow,
and all that I have done shall be to your worship, and to us all. And then was Sir Gareth staunched
of his bleeding. But the leeches said that there was no man that bare the life should heal
him throughout of his wound but if they healed him that caused that stroke by enchantment.
These three brethren told King Arthur how they were overcome by a knight that a damosel had
with her, and called him Beaumains. Jesu, said the king, I marvel what knight he is, and of
what lineage he is come. He was with me a twelvemonth, and poorly and shamefully he was fostered,
and Sir Kay in scorn named him Beaumains. So right as the king stood so talking with these
three brethren, there came Sir Launcelot du Lake, and told the king that there was come a goodly
lord with six hundred knights with him.

Then the king went out of Carlion, for there was the feast, and there came to him this lord,
and saluted the king in a goodly manner. What will ye, said King Arthur, and what is your errand?
Sir, he said, my name is the Red Knight of the Red Launds, but my name is Sir Ironside; and
sir, wit ye well, here I am sent to you of a knight that is called Beaumains, for he won me
in plain battle hand for hand, and so did never no knight but he, that ever had the better
of me this thirty winter; the which commanded to yield me to you at your will. Ye are welcome,
said the king, for ye have been long a great foe to me and my court, and now I trust to God
I shall so entreat you that ye shall be my friend. Sir, both I and these five hundred knights
shall always be at your summons to do you service as may lie in our powers. Jesu mercy, said
King Arthur, I am much beholden unto that knight that hath put so his body in devoir to worship
me and my court. And as to thee, Ironside, that art called the Red Knight of the Red Launds,
thou art called a perilous knight; and if thou wilt hold of me I shall worship thee and make
thee knight of the Table Round; but then thou must be no more a murderer. Sir, as to that,
I have promised unto Sir Beaumains never more to use such customs, for all the shameful customs
that I used I did at the request of a lady that I loved; and therefore I must go unto Sir Launcelot,
and unto Sir Gawaine, and ask them forgiveness of the evil will I had unto them; for all that
I put to death was all only for the love of Sir Launcelot and of Sir Gawaine. They be here
now, said the king, afore thee, now may ye say to them what ye will. And then he kneeled down
unto Sir Launcelot, and to Sir Gawaine, and prayed them of forgiveness of his enmity that ever
he had against them.

THEN goodly they said all at once, God forgive you, and we do, and pray you that ye will tell
us where we may find Sir Beaumains. Fair lords, said Sir Ironside, I cannot tell you, for it
is full hard to find him; for such young knights as he is one, when they be in their adventures
be never abiding in no place. But to say the worship that the Red Knight of the Red Launds,
and Sir Persant and his brother said of Beaumains, it was marvel to hear. Well, my fair lords,
said King Arthur, wit you well I shall do you honour for the love of Sir Beaumains, and as
soon as ever I meet with him I shall make you all upon one day knights of the Table Round.
And as to thee, Sir Persant of Inde, thou hast been ever called a full noble knight, and so
have ever been thy three brethren called. But I marvel, said the king, that I hear not of the
Black Knight your brother, he was a full noble knight. Sir, said Pertolepe, the Green Knight,
Sir Beaumains slew him in a recounter with his spear, his name was Sir Percard. That was great
pity, said the king, and so said many knights. For these four brethren were full well known
in the court of King Arthur for noble knights, for long time they had holden war against the
knights of the Round Table. Then said Pertolepe, the Green Knight, to the king: At a passage
of the water of Mortaise there encountered Sir Beaumains with two brethren that ever for the
most part kept that passage, and they were two deadly knights, and there he slew the eldest
brother in the water, and smote him upon the head such a buffet that he fell down in the water,
and there he was drowned, and his name was Sir Gherard le Breusse; and after he slew the other
brother upon the land, his name was Sir Arnold le Breusse.

CHAPTER XXV[*3]

[*3] In Caxton's edition this chapter is misnumbered XXVI., setting the numeration wrong to
the end of the book.

So then the king and they went to meat, and were served in the best manner. And as they sat
at the meat, there came in the Queen of Orkney, with ladies and knights a great number. Alas,
where have ye done my dear son that was my joy and bliss? O dear mother, said Sir Gawaine,
I knew him not. Nor I, said the king, that now me repenteth, but thanked be God he is proved
a worshipful knight as any is now living of his years, and I shall never be glad till I may
find him.

Ah, brother, said the Queen unto King Arthur, and unto Sir Gawaine, and to all her sons, ye
did yourself great shame when ye amongst you kept my son in the kitchen and fed him like a
poor hog. Fair sister, said King Arthur, ye shall right well wit I knew him not, nor no more
did Sir Gawaine, nor his brethren; but sithen it is so, said the king, that he is thus gone
from us all, we must shape a remedy to find him. Also, sister, meseemeth ye might have done
me to wit of his coming, and then an I had not done well to him ye might have blamed me. For
when he came to this court he came leaning upon two men's shoulders, as though he might not
have gone. Sir, said Arthur, let this language be still, and by the grace of God he shall be
found an he be within this seven realms, and let all this pass and be merry, for he is proved
to be a man of worship, and that is my joy.

THEN said Sir Gawaine and his brethren unto Arthur, Sir, an ye will give us leave, we will
go and seek our brother. Nay, said Sir Launcelot, that shall ye not need; and so said Sir Baudwin
of Britain: for as by our advice the king shall send unto Dame Lionesse a messenger, and pray
her that she will come to the court in all the haste that she may, and doubt ye not she will
come; and then she may give you best counsel where ye shall find him. This is well said of
you, said the king. So then goodly letters were made, and the messenger sent forth, that night
and day he went till he came unto the Castle Perilous. And then the lady Dame Lionesse was
sent for, thereas she was with Sir Gringamore her brother and Sir Gareth. And when she understood
this message, she bade him ride on his way unto King Arthur, and she would come after in all
goodly haste. Then when she came to Sir Gringamore and to Sir Gareth, she told them all how
King Arthur had sent for her. That is because of me, said Sir Gareth. Now advise me, said Dame
Lionesse, what shall I say, and in what manner I shall rule me. My lady and my love, said Sir
Gareth, I pray you in no wise be ye aknowen where I am; but well I wot my mother is there and
all my brethren, and they will take upon them to seek me, I wot well that they do. But this,
madam, I would ye said and advised the king when he questioned with you of me. Then may ye
say, this is your advice that, an it like his good grace, ye will do make a cry against the
feast of the Assumption of our Lady, that what knight there proveth him best he shall wield
you and all your land. And if so be that he be a wedded man, that his wife shall have the degree,
and a coronal of gold beset with stones of virtue to the value of a thousand pound, and a white
gerfalcon.

So Dame Lionesse departed and came to King Arthur, where she was nobly received, and there
she was sore questioned of the king and of the Queen of Orkney. And she answered, where Sir
Gareth was she could not tell. But thus much she said unto Arthur: Sir, I will let cry a tournament
that shall be done before my castle at the Assumption of our Lady, and the cry shall be this:
that you, my lord Arthur, shall be there, and your knights, and I will purvey that my knights
shall be against yours; and then I am sure ye shall hear of Sir Gareth. This is well advised,
said King Arthur; and so she departed. And the king and she made great provision to that tournament.

When Dame Lionesse was come to the Isle of Avilion, that was the same isle thereas her brother
Sir Gringamore dwelt, then she told them all how she had done, and what promise she had made
to King Arthur. Alas, said Sir Gareth, I have been so wounded with unhappiness sithen I came
into this castle that I shall not be able to do at that tournament like a knight; for I was
never thoroughly whole since I was hurt. Be ye of good cheer, said the damosel Linet, for I
undertake within these fifteen days to make ye whole, and as lusty as ever ye were. And then
she laid an ointment and a salve to him as it pleased to her, that he was never so fresh nor
so lusty. Then said the damosel Linet: Send you unto Sir Persant of Inde, and assummon him
and his knights to be here with you as they have promised. Also, that ye send unto Sir Ironside,
that is the Red Knight of the Red Launds, and charge him that he be ready with you with his
whole sum of knights, and then shall ye be able to match with King Arthur and his knights.
So this was done, and all knights were sent for unto the Castle Perilous; and then the Red
Knight answered and said unto Dame Lionesse, and to Sir Gareth, Madam, and my lord Sir Gareth,
ye shall understand that I have been at the court of King Arthur, and Sir Persant of Inde and
his brethren, and there we have done our homage as ye commanded us. Also Sir Ironside said,
I have taken upon me with Sir Persant of Inde and his brethren to hold part against my lord
Sir Launcelot and the knights of that court. And this have I done for the love of my lady Dame
Lionesse, and you my lord Sir Gareth. Ye have well done, said Sir Gareth; but wit you well
ye shall be full sore matched with the most noble knights of the world; therefore we must purvey
us of good knights, where we may get them. That is well said, said Sir Persant, and worshipfully.

And so the cry was made in England, Wales, and Scotland, Ireland, Cornwall, and in all the
Out Isles, and in Brittany and in many countries; that at the feast of our Lady the Assumption
next coming, men should come to the Castle Perilous beside the Isle of Avilion; and there all
the knights that there came should have the choice whether them list to be on the one party
with the knights of the castle, or on the other party with King Arthur. And two months was
to the day that the tournament should be. And so there came many good knights that were at
their large, and held them for the most part against King Arthur and his knights of the Round
Table and came in the side of them of the castle. For Sir Epinogrus was the first, and he was
the king's son of Northumberland, and Sir Palamides the Saracen was another, and Sir Safere
his brother, and Sir Segwarides his brother, but they were christened, and Sir Malegrine another,
and Sir Brian de les Isles, a noble knight, and Sir Grummore Grummursum, a good knight of Scotland,
and Sir Carados of the dolorous tower, a noble knight, and Sir Turquine his brother, and Sir
Arnold and Sir Gauter, two brethren, good knights of Cornwall. There came Sir Tristram de Liones,
and with him Sir Dinas, the Seneschal, and Sir Sadok; but this Sir Tristram was not at that
time knight of the Table Round, but he was one of the best knights of the world.

AND then there came with King Arthur Sir Gawaine, Agravaine, Gaheris, his brethren. And then
his nephews Sir Uwaine le Blanchemains, and Sir Aglovale, Sir Tor, Sir Percivale de Galis,
and Sir Lamorak de Galis. Also there came with King Arthur these knights, the King of Ireland,
King Agwisance, and the King of Scotland, King Carados and King Uriens of the land of Gore,
and King Bagdemagus and his son Sir Meliaganus, and Sir Galahault the noble prince. All these
kings, princes, and earls, barons, and other noble knights, as Sir Brandiles, Sir Uwaine les
Avoutres, and Sir Kay, Sir Bedivere, Sir Meliot de Logres, Sir Petipase of Winchelsea, Sir
Godelake: all these came with King Arthur, and more that cannot be rehearsed.

Now leave we of these kings and knights, and let us speak of the great array that was made
within the castle and about the castle for both parties. The Lady Dame Lionesse ordained great
array upon her part for her noble knights, for all manner of lodging and victual that came
by land and by water, that there lacked nothing for her party, nor for the other, but there
was plenty to be had for gold and silver for King Arthur and his knights. And then there came
the harbingers from King Arthur for to harbour him, and his kings, dukes, earls, barons, and
knights. And then Sir Gareth prayed Dame Lionesse and the Red Knight of the Red Launds, and
Sir Persant and his brother, and Sir Gringamore, that in no wise there should none of them
tell not his name, and make no more of him than of the least knight that there was, For, he
said, I will not be known of neither more nor less, neither at the beginning neither at the
ending. Then Dame Lionesse said unto Sir Gareth: Sir, I will lend you a ring, but I would pray
you as you love me heartily let me have it again when the tournament is done, for that ring
increaseth my beauty much more than it is of himself. And the virtue of my ring is that, that
is green it will turn to red, and that is red it will turn in likeness to green, and that is
blue it will turn to likeness of white, and that is white it will turn in likeness to blue,
and so it will do of all manner of colours. Also who that beareth my ring shall lose no blood,
and for great love I will give you this ring. Gramercy, said Sir Gareth, mine own lady, for
this ring is passing meet for me, for it will turn all manner of likeness that I am in, and
that shall cause me that I shall not be known. Then Sir Gringamore gave Sir Gareth a bay courser
that was a passing good horse; also he gave him good armour and sure, and a noble sword that
sometime Sir Gringamore's father won upon an heathen tyrant. And so thus every knight made
him ready to that tournament. And King Arthur was come two days to-fore the Assumption of our
Lady. And there was all manner of royalty of all minstrelsy that might be found. Also there
came Queen Guenever and the Queen of Orkney, Sir Gareth's mother.

And upon the Assumption Day, when mass and matins were done, there were heralds with trumpets
commanded to blow to the field. And so there came out Sir Epinogrus, the king's son of Northumberland,
from the castle, and there encountered with him Sir Sagramore le Desirous, and either of them
brake their spears to their hands. And then came in Sir Palamides out of the castle, and there
encountered with him Gawaine, and either of them smote other so hard that both the good knights
and their horses fell to the earth. And then knights of either party rescued their knights.
And then came in Sir Safere and Sir Segwarides, brethren to Sir Palamides; and there encountered
Sir Agravaine with Sir Safere and Sir Gaheris encountered with Sir Segwarides. So Sir Safere
smote down Agravaine, Sir Gawaine's brother; and Sir Segwarides, Sir Safere's brother. And
Sir Malegrine, a knight of the castle, encountered with Sir Uwaine le Blanchemains, and there
Sir Uwaine gave Sir Malegrine a fall, that he had almost broke his neck.

CHAPTER XXVIII. How the knights bare them in the battle.

THEN Sir Brian de les Isles and Grummore Grummursum, knights of the castle, encountered with
Sir Aglovale, and Sir Tor smote down Sir Grummore Grummursum to the earth. And there encountered
Sir Percivale with Sir Carados, and either brake their spears unto their hands, and then Sir
Turquine with Sir Lamorak, and either of them smote down other's horse and all to the earth,
and either parties rescued other, and horsed them again. And Sir Arnold and Sir Gauter, knights
of the castle, encountered with Sir Brandiles and Sir Kay, and these four knights encountered
mightily, and brake their spears to their hands. Then came in Sir Tristram, Sir Sadok, and
Sir Dinas, knights of the castle, and there encountered Sir Tristram with Sir Bedivere, and
there Sir Bedivere was smitten to the earth both horse and man. And Sir Sadok encountered with
Sir Petipase, and there Sir Sadok was overthrown. And there Uwaine les Avoutres smote down
Sir Dinas, the Seneschal. Then came in Sir Persant of Inde, a knight of the castle, and there
encountered with him Sir Launcelot du Lake, and there he smote Sir Persant, horse and man,
to the earth. Then came Sir Pertolepe from the castle, and there encountered with him Sir Lionel,
and there Sir Pertolepe, the Green Knight, smote down Sir Lionel, brother to Sir Launcelot.
All this was marked by noble heralds, who bare him best, and their names.

And then came into the field Sir Perimones, the Red Knight, Sir Persant's brother, that was
a knight of the castle, and he encountered with Sir Ector de Maris, and either smote other
so hard that both their horses and they fell to the earth. And then came in the Red Knight
of the Red Launds, and Sir Gareth, from the castle, and there encountered with them Sir Bors
de Ganis and Sir Bleoberis, and there the Red Knight and Sir Bors [either] smote other so hard
that their spears brast, and their horses fell grovelling to the earth. Then Sir Bleoberis
brake his spear upon Sir Gareth, but of that stroke Sir Bleoberis fell to the earth. When Sir
Galihodin saw that he bade Sir Gareth keep him, and Sir Gareth smote him to the earth. All
these he bare down with one spear.

When King Agwisance of Ireland saw Sir Gareth fare so, he marvelled what he might be that one
time seemed green, and another time, at his again coming, he seemed blue. And thus at every
course that he rode to and fro he changed his colour, so that there might neither king nor
knight have ready cognisance of him. Then Sir Agwisance, the King of Ireland, encountered with
Sir Gareth, and there Sir Gareth smote him from his horse, saddle and all. And then came King
Carados of Scotland, and Sir Gareth smote him down horse and man. And in the same wise he served
King Uriens of the land of Gore. And then came in Sir Bagdemagus, and Sir Gareth smote him
down, horse and man, to the earth. And Bagdemagus' son, Meliganus, brake a spear upon Sir Gareth
mightily and knightly. And then Sir Galahault, the noble prince, cried on high: Knight with
the many colours, well hast thou jousted; now make thee ready that I may joust with thee. Sir
Gareth heard him, and he gat a great spear, and so they encountered together, and there the
prince brake his spear; but Sir Gareth smote him upon the left side of the helm that he reeled
here and there, and he had fallen down had not his men recovered him.

So God me help, said King Arthur, that same knight with the many colours is a good knight.
Wherefore the king called unto him Sir Launcelot, and prayed him to encounter with that knight.
Sir, said Launcelot, I may well find in my heart for to forbear him as at this time, for he
hath had travail enough this day; and when a good knight doth so well upon some day, it is
no good knight's part to let him of his worship, and namely, when he seeth a knight hath done
so great labour; for peradventure, said Sir Launcelot, his quarrel is here this day, and peradventure
he is best beloved with this lady of all that be here; for I see well he paineth him and enforceth
him to do great deeds, and therefore, said Sir Launcelot, as for me, this day he shall have
the honour; though it lay in my power to put him from it I would not.

CHAPTER XXIX. Yet of the said tournament.

THEN when this was done there was drawing of swords, and then there began a sore tournament.
And there did Sir Lamorak marvellous deeds of arms; and betwixt Sir Lamorak and Sir Ironside,
that was the Red Knight of the Red Launds, there was strong battle; and betwixt Sir Palamides
and Bleoberis there was a strong battle; and Sir Gawaine and Sir Tristram met, and there Sir
Gawaine had the worse, for he pulled Sir Gawaine from his horse, and there he was long upon
foot, and defouled. Then came in Sir Launcelot, and he smote Sir Turquine, and he him; and
then came Sir Carados his brother, and both at once they assailed him, and he as the most noblest
knight of the world worshipfully fought with them both, that all men wondered of the noblesse
of Sir Launcelot. And then came in Sir Gareth, and knew that it was Sir Launcelot that fought
with the two perilous knights. And then Sir Gareth came with his good horse and hurtled them
in-sunder, and no stroke would he smite to Sir Launcelot. That espied Sir Launcelot, and deemed
it should be the good knight Sir Gareth: and then Sir Gareth rode here and there, and smote
on the right hand and on the left hand, and all the folk might well espy where that he rode.
And by fortune he met with his brother Sir Gawaine, and there he put Sir Gawaine to the worse,
for he put off his helm, and so he served five or six knights of the Round Table, that all
men said he put him in the most pain, and best he did his devoir. For when Sir Tristram beheld
him how he first jousted and after fought so well with a sword, then he rode unto Sir Ironside
and to Sir Persant of Inde, and asked them, by their faith, What manner a knight is yonder
knight that seemeth in so many divers colours? Truly, meseemeth, said Tristram, that he putteth
himself in great pain, for he never ceaseth. Wot ye not what he is? said Sir Ironside. No,
said Sir Tristram. Then shall ye know that this is he that loveth the lady of the castle, and
she him again; and this is he that won me when I besieged the lady of this castle, and this
is he that won Sir Persant of Inde, and his three brethren. What is his name, said Sir Tristram,
and of what blood is he come? He was called in the court of King Arthur, Beaumains, but his
right name is Sir Gareth of Orkney, brother to Sir Gawaine. By my head, said Sir Tristram,
he is a good knight, and a big man of arms, and if he be young he shall prove a full noble
knight. He is but a child, they all said, and of Sir Launcelot he was made knight. Therefore
he is mickle the better, said Tristram. And then Sir Tristram, Sir Ironside, Sir Persant, and
his brother, rode together for to help Sir Gareth; and then there were given many strong strokes.

And then Sir Gareth rode out on the one side to amend his helm; and then said his dwarf: Take
me your ring, that ye lose it not while that ye drink. And so when he had drunk he gat on his
helm, and eagerly took his horse and rode into the field, and left his ring with his dwarf;
and the dwarf was glad the ring was from him, for then he wist well he should be known. And
then when Sir Gareth was in the field all folks saw him well and plainly that he was in yellow
colours; and there he rased off helms and pulled down knights, that King Arthur had marvel
what knight he was, for the king saw by his hair that it was the same knight.

BUT before he was in so many colours, and now he is but in one colour; that is yellow. Now
go, said King Arthur unto divers heralds, and ride about him, and espy what manner knight he
is, for I have spered of many knights this day that be upon his party, and all say they know
him not. And so an herald rode nigh Gareth as he could; and there he saw written about his
helm in gold, This helm is Sir Gareth of Orkney. Then the herald cried as he were wood, and
many heralds with him:--This is Sir Gareth of Orkney in the yellow arms; wherby[*4] all kings
and knights of Arthur's beheld him and awaited; and then they pressed all to behold him, and
ever the heralds cried: This is Sir Gareth of Orkney, King Lot's son. And when Sir Gareth espied
that he was discovered, then he doubled his strokes, and smote down Sir Sagramore, and his
brother Sir Gawaine. O brother, said Sir Gawaine, I weened ye would not have stricken me.

[*4] So W. de Worde; Caxton "that by."

So when he heard him say so he thrang here and there, and so with great pain he gat out of
the press, and there he met with his dwarf. O boy, said Sir Gareth, thou hast beguiled me foul
this day that thou kept my ring; give it me anon again, that I may hide my body withal; and
so he took it him. And then they all wist not where he was become; and Sir Gawaine had in manner
espied where Sir Gareth rode, and then he rode after with all his might. That espied Sir Gareth,
and rode lightly into the forest, that Sir Gawaine wist not where he was become. And when Sir
Gareth wist that Sir Gawaine was passed, he asked the dwarf of best counsel. Sir, said the
dwarf, meseemeth it were best, now that ye are escaped from spying, that ye send my lady Dame
Lionesse her ring. It is well advised, said Sir Gareth; now have it here and bear it to her,
and say that I recommend me unto her good grace, and say her I will come when I may, and I
pray her to be true and faithful to me as I will be to her. Sir, said the dwarf, it shall be
done as ye command: and so he rode his way, and did his errand unto the lady. Then she said,
Where is my knight, Sir Gareth? Madam, said the dwarf, he bade me say that he would not be
long from you. And so lightly the dwarf came again unto Sir Gareth, that would full fain have
had a lodging, for he had need to be reposed. And then fell there a thunder and a rain, as
heaven and earth should go together. And Sir Gareth was not a little weary, for of all that
day he had but little rest, neither his horse nor he. So this Sir Gareth rode so long in that
forest until the night came. And ever it lightened and thundered, as it had been wood. At the
last by fortune he came to a castle, and there he heard the waits upon the walls.

THEN Sir Gareth rode unto the barbican of the castle, and prayed the porter fair to let him
into the castle. The porter answered ungoodly again, and said, Thou gettest no lodging here.
Fair sir, say not so, for I am a knight of King Arthur's, and pray the lord or the lady of
this castle to give me harbour for the love of King Arthur. Then the porter went unto the duchess,
and told her how there was a knight of King Arthur's would have harbour. Let him in, said the
duchess, for I will see that knight, and for King Arthur's sake he shall not be harbourless.
Then she yode up into a tower over the gate, with great torchlight.

When Sir Gareth saw that torch-light he cried on high: Whether thou be lord or lady, giant
or champion, I take no force so that I may have harbour this night; and if it so be that I
must needs fight, spare me not to-morn when I have rested me, for both I and mine horse be
weary. Sir knight, said the lady, thou speakest knightly and boldly; but wit thou well the
lord of this castle loveth not King Arthur, nor none of his court, for my lord hath ever been
against him; and therefore thou were better not to come within this castle; for an thou come
in this night, thou must come in under such form, that wheresomever thou meet my lord, by stigh
or by street, thou must yield thee to him as prisoner. Madam, said Sir Gareth, what is your
lord, and what is his name? Sir, my lord's name is the Duke de la Rowse. Well madam, said Sir
Gareth, I shall promise you in what place I meet your lord I shall yield me unto him and to
his good grace; with that I understand he will do me no harm: and if I understand that he will,
I will release myself an I can with my spear and my sword. Ye say well, said the duchess; and
then she let the drawbridge down, and so he rode into the hall, and there he alighted, and
his horse was led into a stable; and in the hall he unarmed him and said, Madam, I will not
out of this hall this night; and when it is daylight, let see who will have ado with me, he
shall find me ready. Then was he set unto supper, and had many good dishes. Then Sir Gareth
list well to eat, and knightly he ate his meat, and eagerly; there was many a fair lady by
him, and some said they never saw a goodlier man nor so well of eating. Then they made him
passing good cheer, and shortly when he had supped his bed was made there; so he rested him
all night.

And on the morn he heard mass, and brake his fast and took his leave at the duchess, and at
them all; and thanked her goodly of her lodging, and of his good cheer; and then she asked
him his name. Madam, he said, truly my name is Gareth of Orkney, and some men call me Beaumains.
Then knew she well it was the same knight that fought for Dame Lionesse. So Sir Gareth departed
and rode up into a mountain, and there met him a knight, his name was Sir Bendelaine, and said
to Sir Gareth: Thou shalt not pass this way, for either thou shalt joust with me, or else be
my prisoner. Then will I joust, said Sir Gareth. And so they let their horses run, and there
Sir Gareth smote him throughout the body; and Sir Bendelaine rode forth to his castle there
beside, and there died. So Sir Gareth would have rested him, and he came riding to Bendelaine's
castle. Then his knights and servants espied that it was he that had slain their lord. Then
they armed twenty good men, and came out and assailed Sir Gareth; and so he had no spear, but
his sword, and put his shield afore him; and there they brake their spears upon him, and they
assailed him passingly sore. But ever Sir Gareth defended him as a knight.

SO when they saw that they might not overcome him, they rode from him, and took their counsel
to slay his horse; and so they came in upon Sir Gareth, and with spears they slew his horse,
and then they assailed him hard. But when he was on foot, there was none that he fought but
he gave him such a buffet that he did never recover. So he slew them by one and one till they
were but four, and there they fled; and Sir Gareth took a good horse that was one of theirs,
and rode his way.

Then he rode a great pace till that he came to a castle, and there he heard much mourning of
ladies and gentlewomen. So there came by him a page. What noise is this, said Sir Gareth, that
I hear within this castle? Sir knight, said the page, here be within this castle thirty ladies,
and all they be widows; for here is a knight that waiteth daily upon this castle, and his name
is the Brown Knight without Pity, and he is the periloust knight that now liveth; and therefore
sir, said the page, I rede you flee. Nay, said Sir Gareth, I will not flee though thou be afeard
of him. And then the page saw where came the Brown Knight: Lo, said the page, yonder he cometh.
Let me deal with him, said Sir Gareth. And when either of other had a sight they let their
horses run, and the Brown Knight brake his spear, and Sir Gareth smote him throughout the body,
that he overthrew him to the ground stark dead. So Sir Gareth rode into the castle, and prayed
the ladies that he might repose him. Alas, said the ladies, ye may not be lodged here. Make
him good cheer, said the page, for this knight hath slain your enemy. Then they all made him
good cheer as lay in their power. But wit ye well they made him good cheer, for they might
none otherwise do, for they were but poor.

And so on the morn he went to mass, and there he saw the thirty ladies kneel, and lay grovelling
upon divers tombs, making great dole and sorrow. Then Sir Gareth wist well that in the tombs
lay their lords. Fair ladies, said Sir Gareth, ye must at the next feast of Pentecost be at
the court of King Arthur, and say that I, Sir Gareth, sent you thither. We shall do this, said
the ladies. So he departed, and by fortune he came to a mountain, and there he found a goodly
knight that bade him, Abide sir knight, and joust with me. What are ye? said Sir Gareth. My
name is, said he, the Duke de la Rowse. Ah sir, ye are the same knight that I lodged once in
your castle; and there I made promise unto your lady that I should yield me unto you. Ah, said
the duke, art thou that proud knight that profferest to fight with my knights; therefore make
thee ready, for I will have ado with you. So they let their horses run, and there Sir Gareth
smote the duke down from his horse. But the duke lightly avoided his horse, and dressed his
shield and drew his sword, and bade Sir Gareth alight and fight with him. So he did alight,
and they did great battle together more than an hour, and either hurt other full sore. At the
last Sir Gareth gat the duke to the earth, and would have slain him, and then he yield him
to him. Then must ye go, said Sir Gareth, unto Sir Arthur my lord at the next feast, and say
that I, Sir Gareth of Orkney, sent you unto him. It shall be done, said the duke, and I will
do to you homage and fealty with an hundred knights with me; and all the days of my life to
do you service where ye will command me.

SO the duke departed, and Sir Gareth stood there alone; and there he saw an armed knight coming
toward him. Then Sir Gareth took the duke's shield, and mounted upon horseback, and so without
biding they ran together as it had been the thunder. And there that knight hurt Sir Gareth
under the side with his spear. And then they alighted and drew their swords, and gave great
strokes that the blood trailed to the ground. And so they fought two hours.

At the last there came the damosel Linet, that some men called the damosel Savage, and she
came riding upon an ambling mule; and there she cried all on high, Sir Gawaine, Sir Gawaine,
leave thy fighting with thy brother Sir Gareth. And when he heard her say so he threw away
his shield and his sword, and ran to Sir Gareth, and took him in his arms, and sithen kneeled
down and asked him mercy. What are ye, said Sir Gareth, that right now were so strong and so
mighty, and now so suddenly yield you to me? O Gareth, I am your brother Sir Gawaine, that
for your sake have had great sorrow and labour. Then Sir Gareth unlaced his helm, and kneeled
down to him, and asked him mercy. Then they rose both, and embraced either other in their arms,
and wept a great while or they might speak, and either of them gave other the prize of the
battle. And there were many kind words between them. Alas, my fair brother, said Sir Gawaine,
perdy I owe of right to worship you an ye were not my brother, for ye have worshipped King
Arthur and all his court, for ye have sent him[*5] more worshipful knights this twelvemonth
than six the best of the Round Table have done, except Sir Launcelot.

[*5] So W. de Worde; Caxton "me."

Then came the damosel Savage that was the Lady Linet, that rode with Sir Gareth so long, and
there she did staunch Sir Gareth's wounds and Sir Gawaine's. Now what will ye do? said the
damosel Savage; meseemeth that it were well done that Arthur had witting of you both, for your
horses are so bruised that they may not bear. Now, fair damosel, said Sir Gawaine, I pray you
ride unto my lord mine uncle, King Arthur, and tell him what adventure is to me betid here,
and I suppose he will not tarry long. Then she took her mule, and lightly she came to King
Arthur that was but two mile thence. And when she had told him tidings the king bade get him
a palfrey. And when he was upon his back he bade the lords and ladies come after, who that
would; and there was saddling and bridling of queens' horses and princes' horses, and well
was him that soonest might be ready.

So when the king came thereas they were, he saw Sir Gawaine and Sir Gareth sit upon a little
hill-side, and then the king avoided his horse. A man's life is like the voyage of a ship, where
luck-- secunda aut adversa fortuna-- acts the part of the wind, and speeds the vessel on its way
or drives it far out of its course. All that the man can do for himself is of little avail;
like the rudder, which, if worked hard and continuously, may help in the navigation of the ship;
and yet all may be lost again by a sudden squall. But if the wind is only in the right quarter,
the ship will sail on so as not to need any steering. The power of luck is nowhere better expressed
than in a certain Spanish proverb: Da Ventura a tu hijo, y echa lo en el mar-- give your son
luck and throw him into the sea.

Still, chance, it may be said, is a malignant power, and as little as possible should be left to
its agency. And yet where is there any giver who, in dispensing gifts, tells us quite clearly
that we have no right to them, and that we owe them not to any merit on our part, but wholly
to the goodness and grace of the giver-- at the same time allowing
us to cherish the joyful hope of receiving, in all humility, further
undeserved gifts from the same hands-- where is there any giver like
that, unless it be Chance? who understands the kingly art of showing
the recipient that all merit is powerless and unavailing against the
royal grace and favor.

On looking back over the course of his life,-- that labyrinthine way of error,-- a man must see
many points where luck failed him and misfortune came; and then it is easy to carry self-reproach
to an unjust excess. For the course of a man's life is in no wise entirely of his own making;
it is the product of two factors-- the series of things that happened, and his own resolves
in regard to them, and these two are constantly interacting upon and modifying each other. And besides
these, another influence is at work in the very limited extent of a man's horizon, whether
it is that he cannot see very far ahead in respect of the plans he
will adopt, or that he is still less able to predict the course of
future events: his knowledge is strictly confined to present plans
and present events.

Hence, as long as a man's goal is far off, he cannot steer straight for it; he must be content
to make a course that is approximately right; and in following the direction in which he thinks
he ought to go, he will often have occasion to tack.

All that a man can do is to form such resolves as from time to time accord with the circumstances
in which he is placed, in the hope of thus managing to advance a step nearer towards the final
goal.

It is usually the case that the position in which we stand, and the object at which we aim, resemble
two tendencies working with dissimilar strength in different directions; and the course of our life
is represented by their diagonal, or resultant force. But for my present purpose, the most
suitable simile would be that of a game of chess, where the plan we determined to follow is conditioned
by the play of our rival,-- in life, by the caprice of fate. We are compelled to modify our tactics,
often to such an extent that, as we carry them out, hardly a single feature of the original plan
can be recognized.

[Footnote 1: He seems to have been referring to a game something
like backgammon.] But above and beyond all this, there is another
influence that makes itself felt in our lives.

It is a trite saying-- only too frequently true-- that we are often more foolish than we think.
On the other hand, we are often wiser than we fancy ourselves to be. This, however, is a discovery
which only those can make, of whom it is really true; and it takes them a long time to make it. Our
brains are not the wisest part of us. In the great moments of life,
when a man decides upon an important step, his action is directed
not so much by any clear knowledge of the right thing to do, as by
an inner impulse-- you may almost call it an instinct-- proceeding
from the deepest foundations of his being.

If, later on, he attempts to criticise his action by the light of
hard and fast ideas of what is right in the abstract-- those unprofitable
ideas which are learnt by rote, or, it may be, borrowed from other
people; if he begins to apply general rules, the principles which
have guided others, to his own case, without sufficiently weighing
the maxim that one man's meat is another's poison, then he will run
great risk of doing himself an injustice.

The result will show where the right course lay. Also Sir Pertolepe said: I pray you that at this feast I may be your chamberlain.
With a good will, said Sir Gareth sith it liketh you to take so simple an office. Then came
in the Red Knight, with three score knights with him, and did to Sir Gareth homage and fealty,
and all those knights to hold of him for evermore. And then this Sir Perimones prayed Sir Gareth
to grant him to be his chief butler at that high feast. I will well, said Sir Gareth, that
ye have this office, and it were better. Then came in Sir Persant of Inde, with an hundred
knights with him, and there he did homage and fealty, and all his knights should do him service,
and hold their lands of him for ever; and there he prayed Sir Gareth to make him his sewer-chief
at the feast. I will well, said Sir Gareth, that ye have it and it were better. Then came the
Duke de la Rowse with an hundred knights with him, and there he did homage and fealty to Sir
Gareth, and so to hold their lands of him for ever. And he required Sir Gareth that he might
serve him of the wine that day of that feast. I will well, said Sir Gareth, and it were better.
Then came in the Red Knight of the Red Launds, that was Sir Ironside, and he brought with him
three hundred knights, and there he did homage and fealty, and all these knights to hold their
lands of him for ever. And then he asked Sir Gareth to be his carver. I will well, said Sir
Gareth, an it please you.

Then came into the court thirty ladies, and all they seemed widows, and those thirty ladies
brought with them many fair gentlewomen. And all they kneeled down at once unto King Arthur
and unto Sir Gareth, and there all those ladies told the king how Sir Gareth delivered them
from the dolorous tower, and slew the Brown Knight without Pity: And therefore we, and our
heirs for evermore, will do homage unto Sir Gareth of Orkney. Also there was great jousts three
days. But the king would not suffer Sir Gareth to joust, because of his new bride; for, as
the French book saith, that Dame Lionesse desired of the king that none that were wedded should
joust at that feast.

So the first day there jousted Sir Lamorak de Galis, for he overthrew thirty knights, and did
passing marvellously deeds of arms; and then King Arthur made Sir Persant and his two brethren
Knights of the Round Table to their lives' end, and gave them great lands. Also the second
day there jousted Tristram best, and he overthrew forty knights, and did there marvellous deeds
of arms. And there King Arthur made Ironside, that was the Red Knight of the Red Launds, a
Knight of the Table Round to his life's end, and gave him great lands. The third day there
jousted Sir Launcelot du Lake, and he overthrew fifty knights, and did many marvellous deeds
of arms, that all men wondered on him. And there King Arthur made the Duke de la Rowse a Knight
of the Round Table to his life's end, and gave him great lands to spend. But when these jousts
were done, Sir Lamorak and Sir Tristram departed suddenly, and would not be known, for the
which King Arthur and all the court were sore displeased.

Thus endeth this tale of Sir Gareth of Orkney that wedded Dame Lionesse of the Castle Perilous.
And also Sir Gaheris wedded her sister, Dame Linet, that was called the Damosel Sabage. And
Sir Agrabaine wedded Dame Laurel, a fair lady and great, and mighty lands with great riches
gave with them King Arthur, that royally they might live till their lives' end.

Here followeth the viii. book, the which is the first book of Sir Tristram de Liones, and who
was his father and his mother, and how he was born and fostered, and how he was made knight.

IT was a king that hight Meliodas, and he was lord and king of the country of Liones, and this
Meliodas was a likely knight as any was that time living. And by fortune he wedded King Mark's
sister of Cornwall, and she was called Elizabeth, that was called both good and fair. And at
that time King Arthur reigned, and he was whole king of England, Wales, and Scotland, and of
many other realms: howbeit there were many kings that were lords of many countries, but all
they held their lands of King Arthur; for in Wales were two kings, and in the north were many
kings; and in Cornwall and in the west were two kings; also in Ireland were two or three kings,
and all were under the obeissance of King Arthur. So was the King of France, and the King of
Brittany, and all the lordships unto Rome.

So when this King Meliodas had been with his wife, within a while she waxed great with child,
and she was a full meek lady, and well she loved her lord, and he her again, so there was great
joy betwixt them. When Elizabeth, King Meliodas' wife, missed her lord, and she was nigh out
of her wit, and also as great with child as she was, she took a gentlewoman with her, and ran
into the forest to seek her lord. And when she was far in the forest she might no farther,
for she began to travail fast of her child. And she had many grimly throes; her gentlewoman
helped her all that she might, and so by miracle of Our Lady of Heaven she was delivered with
great pains. But she had taken such cold for the default of help that deep draughts of death
took her, that needs she must die and depart out of this world; there was none other bote.

And when this Queen Elizabeth saw that there was none other bote, then she made great dole,
and said unto her gentlewoman: When ye see my lord, King Meliodas, recommend me unto him, and
tell him what pains I endure here for his love, and how I must die here for his sake for default
of good help; and let him wit that I am full sorry to depart out of this world from him, therefore
pray him to be friend to my soul. Now let me see my little child, for whom I have had all this
sorrow. And when she saw him she said thus: Ah, my little son, thou hast murdered thy mother,
and therefore I suppose, thou that art a murderer so young, thou art full likely to be a manly
man in thine age. And because I shall die of the birth of thee, I charge thee, gentlewoman,
that thou pray my lord, King Meliodas, that when he is christened let call him Tristram, that
is as much to say as a sorrowful birth. And therewith this queen gave up the ghost and died.
Then the gentlewoman laid her under an umbre of a great tree, and then she lapped the child
as well as she might for cold. Right so there came the barons, following after the queen, and
when they saw that she was dead, and understood none other but the king was destroyed, [*7]then
certain of them would have slain the child, because they would have been lords of the country
of Liones.

[*7] Printed by Caxton as part of chap. ii.

BUT then through the fair speech of the gentlewoman, and by the means that she made, the most
part of the barons would not assent thereto. And then they let carry home the dead queen, and
much dole was made for her.

Then this meanwhile Merlin delivered King Meliodas out of prison on the morn after his queen
was dead. And so when the king was come home the most part of the barons made great joy. But
the sorrow that the king made for his queen that might no tongue tell. So then the king let
inter her richly, and after he let christen his child as his wife had commanded afore her death.
And then he let call him Tristram, the sorrowful born child. Then the King Meliodas endured
seven years without a wife, and all this time Tristram was nourished well. Then it befell that
King Meliodas wedded King Howell's daughter of Brittany, and anon she had children of King
Meliodas: then was she heavy and wroth that her children should not rejoice the country of
Liones, wherefore this queen ordained for to poison young Tristram. So she let poison be put
in a piece of silver in the chamber whereas Tristram and her children were together, unto that
intent that when Tristram were thirsty he should drink that drink. And so it fell upon a day,
the queen's son, as he was in that chamber, espied the piece with poison, and he weened it
had been good drink, and because the child was thirsty he took the piece with poison and drank
freely; and therewithal suddenly the child brast and was dead.

When the queen of Meliodas wist of the death of her son, wit ye well that she was heavy. But
yet the king understood nothing of her treason. Notwithstanding the queen would not leave this,
but eft she let ordain more poison, and put it in a piece. And by fortune King Meliodas, her
husband, found the piece with wine where was the poison, and he that was much thirsty took
the piece for to drink thereout. And therewith he pulled out his sword, and sware a great oath
that he should slay her but if she told him truth. Ah! mercy, my lord, said she, and I shall
tell you all. And then she told him why she would have slain Tristram, because her children
should rejoice his land. Well, said King Meliodas, and therefore shall ye have the law. I will
well, said the king again. Then said young Tristram, Give me the life of thy queen, my stepmother.
That is unrightfully asked, said King Meliodas, for thou ought of right to hate her, for she
would have slain thee with that poison an she might have had her will; and for thy sake most
is my cause that she should die.

Sir, said Tristram, as for that, I beseech you of your mercy that you will forgive it her,
and as for my part, God forgive it her, and I do; and so much it liked your highness to grant
me my boon, for God's love I require you hold your promise. Sithen it is so, said the king,
I will that ye have her life. But by the good means of young Tristram he made the king and
her accorded. But then the king would not suffer young Tristram to abide no longer in his court.

AND then he let ordain a gentleman that was well learned and taught, his name was Gouvernail;
and then he sent young Tristram with Gouvernail into France to learn the language, and nurture,
and deeds of arms. And there was Tristram more than seven years. And then when he well could
speak the language, and had learned all that he might learn in that country, then he came home
to his father, King Meliodas, again. And so Tristram learned to be an harper passing all other,
that there was none such called in no country, and so on harping and on instruments of music
he applied him in his youth for to learn.

And after, as he grew in might and strength, he laboured ever in hunting and in hawking, so
that never gentleman more, that ever we heard read of. And as the book saith, he began good
measures of blowing of beasts of venery, and beasts of chase, and all manner of vermin, and
all these terms we have yet of hawking and hunting. And therefore the book of venery, of hawking,
and hunting, is called the book of Sir Tristram. Wherefore, as meseemeth, all gentlemen that
bear old arms ought of right to honour Sir Tristram for the goodly terms that gentlemen have
and use, and shall to the day of doom, that thereby in a manner all men of worship may dissever
a gentleman from a yeoman, and from a yeoman a villain. For he that gentle is will draw him
unto gentle tatches, and to follow the customs of noble gentlemen.

Thus Sir Tristram endured in Cornwall until he was big and strong, of the age of eighteen years.
And then the King Meliodas had great joy of Sir Tristram, and so had the queen, his wife. For
ever after in her life, because Sir Tristram saved her from the fire, she did never hate him
more after, but loved him ever after, and gave Tristram many great gifts; for every estate
loved him, where that he went.

THEN it befell that King Anguish of Ireland sent unto King Mark of Cornwall for his truage,
that Cornwall had paid many winters. And all that time King Mark was behind of the truage for
seven years. And King Mark and his barons gave unto the messenger of Ireland these words and
answer, that they would none pay; and bade the messenger go unto his King Anguish, and tell
him we will pay him no truage, but tell your lord, an he will always have truage of us of Cornwall,
bid him send a trusty knight of his land, that will fight for his right, and we shall find
another for to defend our right. With this answer the messengers departed into Ireland. And
when King Anguish understood the answer of the messengers he was wonderly wroth. And then he
called unto him Sir Marhaus, the good knight, that was nobly proved, and a Knight of the Table
Round. And this Marhaus was brother unto the queen of Ireland. Then the king said thus: Fair
brother, Sir Marhaus, I pray you go into Cornwall for my sake, and do battle for our truage
that of right we ought to have; and whatsomever ye spend ye shall have sufficiently, more than
ye shall need. Sir, said Marhaus, wit ye well that I shall not be loath to do battle in the
right of you and your land with the best knight of the Table Round; for I know them, for the
most part, what be their deeds; and for to advance my deeds and to increase my worship I will
right gladly go unto this journey for our right. For they knew no knight that durst have ado
with him. For at that time Sir Marhaus was called one of the famousest and renowned knights
of the world. And thus Sir Marhaus abode in the sea, and every day he sent unto King Mark for
to pay the truage that was behind of seven year, other else to find a knight to fight with
him for the truage. This manner of message Sir Marhaus sent daily unto King Mark.

Then they of Cornwall let make cries in every place, that what knight would fight for to save
the truage of Cornwall, he should be rewarded so that he should fare the better, term of his
life. Then some of the barons said to King Mark, and counselled him to send to the court of
King Arthur for to seek Sir Launcelot du Lake, that was that time named for the marvelloust
knight of all the world. Then there were some other barons that counselled the king not to
do so, and said that it was labour in vain, because Sir Marhaus was a knight of the Round Table,
therefore any of them will be loath to have ado with other, but if it were any knight at his
own request would fight disguised and unknown. So the king and all his barons assented that
it was no bote to seek any knight of the Round Table.

THEREWITHAL Tristram went unto his father, King Meliodas, and asked him counsel what was best
to do for to recover Cornwall from truage. For, as meseemeth, said Sir Tristram, it were shame
that Sir Marhaus, the queen's brother of Ireland, should go away unless that he were foughten
withal. As for that, said King Meliodas, wit you well, son Tristram, that Sir Marhaus is called
one of the best knights of the world, and Knight of the Table Round; and therefore I know no
knight in this country that is able to match with him. Alas, said Sir Tristram, that I am not
made knight; and if Sir Marhaus should thus depart into Ireland, God let me never have worship:
an I were made knight I should match him. And sir, said Tristram, I pray you give me leave
to ride to King Mark; and, so ye be not displeased, of King Mark will I be made knight. I will
well, said King Meliodas, that ye be ruled as your courage will rule you. Then Sir Tristram
thanked his father much. And then he made him ready to ride into Cornwall.

In the meanwhile there came a messenger with letters of love from King Faramon of France's
daughter unto Sir Tristram, that were full piteous letters, and in them were written many complaints
of love; but Sir Tristram had no joy of her letters nor regard unto her. Also she sent him
a little brachet that was passing fair. But when the king's daughter understood that Sir Tristram
would not love her, as the book saith, she died for sorrow. And then the same squire that brought
the letter and the brachet came again unto Sir Tristram, as after ye shall hear in the tale.

So this young Sir Tristram rode unto his eme, King Mark of Cornwall. And when he came there
he heard say that there would no knight fight with Sir Marhaus. Then yede Sir Tristram unto
his eme and said: Sir, if ye will give me the order of knighthood, I will do battle with Sir
Marhaus. What are ye, said the king, and from whence be ye come? Sir, said Tristram, I come
from King Meliodas that wedded your sister, and a gentleman wit ye well I am. King Mark beheld
Sir Tristram and saw that he was but a young man of age, but he was passingly well made and
big. Fair sir, said the king, what is your name, and where were ye born? Sir, said he again,
my name is Tristram, and in the country of Liones was I born. Ye say well, said the king; and
if ye will do this battle I shall make you knight. Therefore I come to you, said Sir Tristram,
and for none other cause. But then King Mark made him knight. It may well be, said Sir Marhaus;
but tell King Mark I will not fight with no knight but he be of blood royal, that is to say,
other king's son, other queen's son, born of a prince or princess.

When King Mark understood that, he sent for Sir Tristram de Liones and told him what was the
answer of Sir Marhaus. Then said Sir Tristram: Sithen that he saith so, let him wit that I
am come of father side and mother side of as noble blood as he is: for, sir, now shall ye know
that I am King Meliodas' son, born of your own sister, Dame Elizabeth, that died in the forest
in the birth of me. O Jesu, said King Mark, ye are welcome fair nephew to me. Then in all the
haste the king let horse Sir Tristram, and armed him in the best manner that might be had or
gotten for gold or silver. And then King Mark sent unto Sir Marhaus, and did him to wit that
a better born man than he was himself should fight with him, and his name is Sir Tristram de
Liones, gotten of King Meliodas, and born of King Mark's sister. Then was Sir Marhaus glad
and blithe that he should fight with such a gentleman. And so by the assent of King Mark and
of Sir Marhaus they let ordain that they should fight within an island nigh Sir Marhaus' ships;
and so was Sir Tristram put into a vessel both his horse and he, and all that to him longed
both for his body and for his horse. Sir Tristram lacked nothing. And when King Mark and his
barons of Cornwall beheld how young Sir Tristram departed with such a carriage to fight for
the right of Cornwall, there was neither man nor woman of worship but they wept to see and
understand so young a knight to jeopardy himself for their right.

SO to shorten this tale, when Sir Tristram was arrived within the island he looked to the farther
side, and there he saw at an anchor six ships nigh to the land; and under the shadow of the
ships upon the land, there hoved the noble knight, Sir Marhaus of Ireland. Then Sir Tristram
commanded his servant Gouvernail to bring his horse to the land, and dress his harness at all
manner of rights. And then when he had so done he mounted upon his horse; and when he was in
his saddle well apparelled, and his shield dressed upon his shoulder, Tristram asked Gouvernail,
Where is this knight that I shall have ado withal? Sir, said Gouvernail, see ye him not? I
weened ye had seen him; yonder he hoveth under the umbre of his ships on horseback, with his
spear in his hand and his shield upon his shoulder. That is truth, said the noble knight, Sir
Tristram, now I see him well enough.

Then he commanded his servant Gouvernail to go to his vessel again: And commend me unto mine
eme King Mark, and pray him, if that I be slain in this battle, for to inter my body as him
seemed best; and as for me, let him wit that I will never yield me for cowardice; and if I
be slain and flee not, then they have lost no truage for me; and if so be that I flee or yield
me as recreant, bid mine eme never bury me in Christian burials.

AND then Sir Marhaus avised Sir Tristram, and said thus: Young knight, Sir Tristram, what dost
thou here? me sore repenteth of thy courage, for wit thou well I have been assayed, and the
best knights of this land have been assayed of my hand; and also I have matched with the best
knights of the world, and therefore by my counsel return again unto thy vessel. And fair knight,
and well-proved knight, said Sir Tristram, thou shalt well wit I may not forsake thee in this
quarrel, for I am for thy sake made knight. And thou shalt well wit that I am a king's son
born, and gotten upon a queen; and such promise I have made at my uncle's request and mine
own seeking, that I shall fight with thee unto the uttermost, and deliver Cornwall from the
old truage. And also wit thou well, Sir Marhaus, that this is the greatest cause that thou
couragest me to have ado with thee, for thou art called one of the most renowned knights of
the world, and because of that noise and fame that thou hast thou givest me courage to have
ado with thee, for never yet was I proved with good knight; and sithen I took the order of
knighthood this day, I am well pleased that I may have ado with so good a knight as thou art.
And now wit thou well, Sir Marhaus, that I cast me to get worship on thy body; and if that
I be not proved, I trust to God that I shall be worshipfully proved upon thy body, and to deliver
the country of Cornwall for ever from all manner of truage from Ireland for ever.

Then they began to feutre their spears, and they met so fiercely together that they smote either
other down, both horse and all. But Sir Marhaus smote Sir Tristram a great wound in the side
with his spear, and then they avoided their horses, and pulled out their swords, and threw
their shields afore them. And then they lashed together as men that were wild and courageous.
And when they had stricken so together long, then they left their strokes, and foined at their
breaths and visors; and when they saw that that might not prevail them, then they hurtled together
like rams to bear either other down.

And when Sir Tristram saw Sir Marhaus withdraw him, he said: Ah! Sir Knight of the Round Table,
why withdrawest thou thee? thou dost thyself and thy kin great shame, for I am but a young
knight, or now I was never proved, and rather than I should withdraw me from thee, I had rather
be hewn in an hundred pieces. Sir Marhaus answered no word but yede his way sore groaning.
Well, Sir Knight, said Sir Tristram, I promise thee thy sword and thy shield shall be mine;
and thy shield shall I wear in all places where I ride on mine adventures, and in the sight
of King Arthur and all the Round Table.

ANON Sir Marhaus and his fellowship departed into Ireland. And as soon as he came to the king,
his brother, he let search his wounds. And when he was come unto the land, King Mark took him
in his arms, and the king and Sir Dinas, the seneschal, led Sir Tristram into the castle of
Tintagil. And then was he searched in the best manner, and laid in his bed. And when King Mark
saw his wounds he wept heartily, and so did all his lords. So God me help, said King Mark,
I would not for all my lands that my nephew died. So Sir Tristram lay there a month and more,
and ever he was like to die of that stroke that Sir Marhaus smote him first with the spear.
For, as the French book saith, the spear's head was envenomed, that Sir Tristram might not
be whole. Then was King Mark and all his barons passing heavy, for they deemed none other but
that Sir Tristram should not recover. Then the king let send after all manner of leeches and
surgeons, both unto men and women, and there was none that would behote him the life. Then
came there a lady that was a right wise lady, and she said plainly unto King Mark, and to Sir
Tristram, and to all his barons, that he should never be whole but if Sir Tristram went in
the same country that the venom came from, and in that country should he be holpen or else
never. Thus said the lady unto the king.

And when it was told the king and the queen of such a knight that was such an harper, anon
the king sent for him, and let search his wounds, and then asked him his name. Then he answered,
I am of the country of Liones, and my name is Tramtrist, that thus was wounded in a battle
as I fought for a lady's right.

THEN the king for great favour made Tramtrist to be put in his daughter's ward and keeping,
because she was a noble surgeon. And when she had searched him she found in the bottom of his
wound that therein was poison, and so she healed him within a while; and therefore Tramtrist
cast great love to La Beale Isoud, for she was at that time the fairest maid and lady of the
world. And there Tramtrist learned her to harp, and she began to have a great fantasy unto
him. And at that time Sir Palamides, the Saracen, was in that country, and well cherished with
the king and the queen. And every day Sir Palamides drew unto La Beale Isoud and proffered
her many gifts, for he loved her passingly well. All that espied Tramtrist, and full well knew
he Sir Palamides for a noble knight and a mighty man. And wit you well Sir Tramtrist had great
despite at Sir Palamides, for La Beale Isoud told Tramtrist that Palamides was in will to be
christened for her sake. Thus was there great envy betwixt Tramtrist and Sir Palamides.

Then it befell that King Anguish let cry a great jousts and a great tournament for a lady that
was called the Lady of the Launds, and she was nigh cousin unto the king. And what man won
her, three days after he should wed her and have all her lands. This cry was made in England,
Wales, Scotland, and also in France and in Brittany. It befell upon a day La Beale Isoud came
unto Sir Tramtrist, and told him of this tournament. He answered and said: Fair lady, I am
but a feeble knight, and but late I had been dead had not your good ladyship been. Now, fair
lady, what would ye I should do in this matter? well ye wot, my lady, that I may not joust.
Ah, Tramtrist, said La Beale Isoud, why will ye not have ado at that tournament? well I wot
Sir Palamides shall be there, and to do what he may; and therefore Tramtrist, I pray you for
to be there, for else Sir Palamides is like to win the degree. Madam, said Tramtrist, as for
that, it may be so, for he is a proved knight, and I am but a young knight and late made; and
the first battle that I did it mishapped me to be sore wounded as ye see. But an I wist ye
would be my better lady, at that tournament I will be, so that ye will keep my counsel and
let no creature have knowledge that I shall joust but yourself, and such as ye will to keep
your counsel, my poor person shall I jeopard there for your sake, that, peradventure, Sir Palamides
shall know when that I come. Thereto, said La Beale Isoud, do your best, and as I can, said
La Beale Isoud, I shall purvey horse and armour for you at my device. As ye will so be it,
said Sir Tramtrist, I will be at your commandment.

So at the day of jousts there came Sir Palamides with a black shield, and he overthrew many
knights, that all the people had marvel of him. For he put to the worse Sir Gawaine, Gaheris,
Agravaine, Bagdemagus, Kay, Dodinas le Savage, Sagramore le Desirous, Gumret le Petit, and
Griflet le Fise de Dieu. All these the first day Sir Palamides struck down to the earth. And
then all manner of knights were adread of Sir Palamides, and many called him the Knight with
the Black Shield. So that day Sir Palamides had great worship.

Then came King Anguish unto Tramtrist, and asked him why he would not joust. Sir, he said,
I was but late hurt, and as yet I dare not adventure me. Then came there the same squire that
was sent from the king's daughter of France unto Sir Tristram. And when he had espied Sir Tristram
he fell flat to his feet. All that espied La Beale Isoud, what courtesy the squire made unto
Sir Tristram. And therewithal suddenly Sir Tristram ran unto his squire, whose name was Hebes
le Renoumes, and prayed him heartily in no wise to tell his name. Sir, said Hebes, I will not
discover your name but if ye command me.

THEN Sir Tristram asked him what he did in those countries. Sir, he said, I came hither with
Sir Gawaine for to be made knight, and if it please you, of your hands that I may be made knight.
Await upon me as to-morn secretly, and in the field I shall make you a knight.

Then had La Beale Isoud great suspicion unto Tramtrist, that he was some man of worship proved,
and therewith she comforted herself, and cast more love unto him than she had done to-fore.
And so on the morn Sir Palamides made him ready to come into the field as he did the first
day. And there he smote down the King with the Hundred Knights, and the King of Scots. Then
had La Beale Isoud ordained and well arrayed Sir Tristram in white horse and harness. And right
so she let put him out at a privy postern, and so he came into the field as it had been a bright
angel. And anon Sir Palamides espied him, and therewith he feutred a spear unto Sir Tramtrist,
and he again unto him. And there Sir Tristram smote down Sir Palamides unto the earth. And
then there was a great noise of people: some said Sir Palamides had a fall, some said the Knight
with the Black Shield had a fall. And wit you well La Beale Isoud was passing glad. And then
Sir Gawaine and his fellows nine had marvel what knight it might be that had smitten down Sir
Palamides. Then would there none joust with Tramtrist, but all that there were forsook him,
most and least. Then Sir Tristram made Hebes a knight, and caused him to put himself forth,
and did right well that day. So after Sir Hebes held him with Sir Tristram.

And when Sir Palamides had received this fall, wit ye well that he was sore ashamed, and as
privily as he might he withdrew him out of the field. All that espied Sir Tristram, and lightly
he rode after Sir Palamides and overtook him, and bade him turn, for better he would assay
him or ever he departed. Then Sir Palamides turned him, and either lashed at other with their
swords. But at the first stroke Sir Tristram smote down Palamides, and gave him such a stroke
upon the head that he fell to the earth. So then Tristram bade yield him, and do his commandment,
or else he would slay him. When Sir Palamides beheld his countenance, he dread his buffets
so, that he granted all his askings. Well said, said Sir Tristram, this shall be your charge.
First, upon pain of your life that ye forsake my lady La Beale Isoud, and in no manner wise
that ye draw not to her. Also this twelvemonth and a day that ye bear none armour nor none
harness of war. Now promise me this, or here shalt thou die. Alas, said Palamides, for ever
am I ashamed. Then he sware as Sir Tristram had commanded him. Then for despite and anger Sir
Palamides cut off his harness, and threw them away.

And so Sir Tristram turned again to the castle where was La Beale Isoud; and by the way he
met with a damosel that asked after Sir Launcelot, that won the Dolorous Guard worshipfully;
and this damosel asked Sir Tristram what he was. For it was told her that it was he that smote
down Sir Palamides, by whom the ten knights of King Arthur's were smitten down. Then the damosel
prayed Sir Tristram to tell her what he was, and whether that he were Sir Launcelot du Lake,
for she deemed that there was no knight in the world might do such deeds of arms but if it
were Launcelot. Fair damosel, said Sir Tristram, wit ye well that I am not Sir Launcelot, for
I was never of such prowess, but in God is all that he may make me as good a knight as the
good knight Sir Launcelot. Now, gentle knight, said she, put up thy visor; and when she beheld
his visage she thought she saw never a better man's visage, nor a better faring knight. And
then when the damosel knew certainly that he was not Sir Launcelot, then she took her leave,
and departed from him. And then Sir Tristram rode privily unto the postern, where kept him
La Beale Isoud, and there she made him good cheer, and thanked God of his good speed. So anon,
within a while the king and the queen understood that it was Tramtrist that smote down Sir
Palamides; then was he much made of, more than he was before.

THUS was Sir Tramtrist long there well cherished with the king and the queen, and namely with
La Beale Isoud. So upon a day the queen and La Beale Isoud made a bain for Sir Tramtrist. And
when he was in his bain the queen and Isoud, her daughter, roamed up and down in the chamber;
and therewhiles Gouvernail and Hebes attended upon Tramtrist, and the queen beheld his sword
thereas it lay upon his bed. Alas then, said she unto her daughter, La Beale Isoud, this is
the same traitor knight that slew my brother, thine eme. When Isoud heard her say so she was
passing sore abashed, for passing well she loved Tramtrist, and full well she knew the cruelness
of her mother the queen.

Then when she was let of her evil will she ran to the King Anguish, her husband, and said on
her knees: O my lord, here have ye in your house that traitor knight that slew my brother and
your servant, that noble knight, Sir Marhaus. Who is that, said King Anguish, and where is
he? Sir, she said, it is Sir Tramtrist, the same knight that my daughter healed. Alas, said
the king, therefore am I right heavy, for he is a full noble knight as ever I saw in field.
But I charge you, said the king to the queen, that ye have not ado with that knight, but let
me deal with him.

Then the king went into the chamber unto Sir Tramtrist, and then was he gone unto his chamber,
and the king found him all ready armed to mount upon his horse. When the king saw him all ready
armed to go unto horseback, the king said: Nay, Tramtrist, it will not avail to compare thee
against me; but thus much I shall do for my worship and for thy love; in so much as thou art
within my court it were no worship for me to slay thee: therefore upon this condition I will
give thee leave for to depart from this court in safety, so thou wilt tell me who was thy father,
and what is thy name, and if thou slew Sir Marhaus, my brother.

SIR, said Tristram, now I shall tell you all the truth: my father's name is Sir Meliodas, King
of Liones, and my mother hight Elizabeth, that was sister unto King Mark of Cornwall; and my
mother died of me in the forest, and because thereof she commanded, or she died, that when
I were christened they should christen me Tristram; and because I would not be known in this
country I turned my name and let me call Tramtrist; and for the truage of Cornwall I fought
for my eme's sake, and for the right of Cornwall that ye had posseded many years.

So God me help, said the king, I may not say but ye did as a knight should, and it was your
part to do for your quarrel, and to increase your worship as a knight should; howbeit I may
not maintain you in this country with my worship, unless that I should displease my barons,
and my wife and her kin. With more I promise you as I am true knight, that in all places I
shall be my lady your daughter's servant and knight in right and in wrong, and I shall never
fail her, to do as much as a knight may do. Also I beseech your good grace that I may take
my leave at my lady, your daughter, and at all the barons and knights. I will well, said the
king. O gentle knight, said La Beale Isoud, full woe am I of thy departing, for I saw never
man that I owed so good will to. And therewithal she wept heartily. Madam, said Sir Tristram,
ye shall understand that my name is Sir Tristram de Liones, gotten of King Meliodas, and born
of his queen. And I promise you faithfully that I shall be all the days of my life your knight.
Gramercy, said La Beale Isoud, and I promise you there-against that I shall not be married
this seven years but by your assent; and to whom that ye will I shall be married to him will
I have, and he will have me if ye will consent. And if there be any that will proffer me wrong,
or say of me wrong or shame behind my back, say it now or never, and here is my body to make
it good, body against body. And all they stood still, there was not one that would say one
word; yet were there some knights that were of the queen's blood, and of Sir Marhaus' blood,
but they would not meddle with him.

SO Sir Tristram departed, and took the sea, and with good wind he arrived up at Tintagil in
Cornwall; and when King Mark was whole in his prosperity there came tidings that Sir Tristram
was arrived, and whole of his wounds: thereof was King Mark passing glad, and so were all the
barons; and when he saw his time he rode unto his father, King Meliodas, and there he had all
the cheer that the king and the queen could make him. And then largely King Meliodas and his
queen departed of their lands and goods to Sir Tristram.

Then by the license of King Meliodas, his father, he returned again unto the court of King
Mark, and there he lived in great joy long time, until at the last there befell a jealousy
and an unkindness betwixt King Mark and Sir Tristram, for they loved both one lady. And she
was an earl's wife that hight Sir Segwarides. And this lady loved Sir Tristram passingly well.
And he loved her again, for she was a passing fair lady, and that espied Sir Tristram well.
Then King Mark understood that and was jealous, for King Mark loved her passingly well.

So it fell upon a day this lady sent a dwarf unto Sir Tristram, and bade him, as he loved her,
that he would be with her the night next following. Also she charged you that ye come not to
her but if ye be well armed, for her lover was called a good knight. Sir Tristram answered
to the dwarf: Recommend me unto my lady, and tell her I will not fail but I will be with her
the term that she hath set me. And with this answer the dwarf departed. And King Mark espied
that the dwarf was with Sir Tristram upon message from Segwarides' wife; then King Mark sent
for the dwarf, and when he was come he made the dwarf by force to tell him all, why and wherefore
that he came on message from Sir Tristram. Now, said King Mark, go where thou wilt, and upon
pain of death that thou say no word that thou spakest with me; so the dwarf departed from the king.

And that same night that the steven was set betwixt Segwarides' wife and Sir Tristram, King
Mark armed him, and made him ready, and took two knights of his counsel with him; and so he
rode afore for to abide by the way for to wait upon Sir Tristram. And as Sir Tristram came
riding upon his way with his spear in his hand, King Mark came hurtling upon him with his two
knights suddenly. And all three smote him with their spears, and King Mark hurt Sir Tristram
on the breast right sore. And then Sir Tristram feutred his spear, and smote his uncle, King
Mark, so sore, that he rashed him to the earth, and bruised him that he lay still in a swoon,
and long it was or ever he might wield himself. And then he ran to the one knight, and eft
to the other, and smote them to the cold earth, that they lay still. And therewithal Sir Tristram
rode forth sore wounded to the lady, and found her abiding him at a postern.

AND there she welcomed him fair, and either halsed other in arms, and so she let put up his
horse in the best wise, and then she unarmed him. And so they supped lightly, and went to bed
with great joy and pleasaunce; and so in his raging he took no keep of his green wound that
King Mark had given him. And so Sir Tristram be-bled both the over sheet and the nether, and
pillows, and head sheet. And within a while there came one afore, that warned her that her
lord was near-hand within a bow-draught. So she made Sir Tristram to arise, and so he armed
him, and took his horse, and so departed. By then was come Segwarides, her lord, and when he
found her bed troubled and broken, and went near and beheld it by candle light, then he saw
that there had lain a wounded knight. Ah, false traitress, then he said, why hast thou betrayed
me? And therewithal he swang out a sword, and said: But if thou tell me who hath been here,
here thou shalt die. Ah, my lord, mercy, said the lady, and held up her hands, saying: Slay
me not, and I shall tell you all who hath been here. Tell anon, said Segwarides, to me all
the truth. Anon for dread she said: Here was Sir Tristram with me, and by the way as he came
to me ward, he was sore wounded. Ah, false traitress, said Segwarides, where is he become?
Sir, she said, he is armed, and departed on horseback, not yet hence half a mile. Ye say well,
said Segwarides.

Then he armed him lightly, and gat his horse, and rode after Sir Tristram that rode straightway
unto Tintagil. And within a while he overtook Sir Tristram, and then he bade him, Turn, false
traitor knight. And Sir Tristram anon turned him against him. And therewithal Segwarides smote
Sir Tristram with a spear that it all to-brast; and then he swang out his sword and smote fast
at Sir Tristram. Sir knight, said Sir Tristram, I counsel you that ye smite no more, howbeit
for the wrongs that I have done you I will forbear you as long as I may. Nay, said Segwarides,
that shall not be, for either thou shalt die or I.

Then Sir Tristram drew out his sword, and hurtled his horse unto him fiercely, and through
the waist of the body he smote Sir Segwarides that he fell to the earth in a swoon. And so
Sir Tristram departed and left him there. And so he rode unto Tintagil and took his lodging
secretly, for he would not be known that he was hurt. Also Sir Segwarides' men rode after their
master, whom they found lying in the field sore wounded, and brought him home on his shield,
and there he lay long or that he were whole, but at the last he recovered. Also King Mark would
not be aknown of that Sir Tristram and he had met that night. And as for Sir Tristram, he knew
not that King Mark had met with him. And so the king askance came to Sir Tristram, to comfort
him as he lay sick in his bed. But as long as King Mark lived he loved never Sir Tristram after
that; though there was fair speech, love was there none. And thus it passed many weeks and
days, and all was forgiven and forgotten; for Sir Segwarides durst not have ado with Sir Tristram,
because of his noble prowess, and also because he was nephew unto King Mark; therefore he let
it overslip: for he that hath a privy hurt is loath to have a shame outward.

THEN it befell upon a day that the good knight Bleoberis de Ganis, brother to Blamore de Ganis,
and nigh cousin unto the good knight Sir Launcelot du Lake, this Bleoberis came unto the court
of King Mark, and there he asked of King Mark a boon, to give him what gift that he would ask
in his court. When the king heard him ask so, he marvelled of his asking, but because he was
a knight of the Round Table, and of a great renown, King Mark granted him his whole asking.
Then, said Sir Bleoberis, I will have the fairest lady in your court that me list to choose.
I may not say nay, said King Mark; now choose at your adventure. And so Sir Bleoberis did choose
Sir Segwarides' wife, and took her by the hand, and so went his way with her; and so he took
his horse and gart set her behind his squire, and rode upon his way.

When Sir Segwarides heard tell that his lady was gone with a knight of King Arthur's court,
then he armed him and rode after that knight for to rescue his lady. So when Bleoberis was
gone with this lady, King Mark and all the court was wroth that she was away. Then were there
certain ladies that knew that there were great love between Sir Tristram and her, and also
that lady loved Sir Tristram above all other knights. Then there was one lady that rebuked
Sir Tristram in the horriblest wise, and called him coward knight, that he would for shame
of his knighthood see a lady so shamefully be taken away from his uncle's court. But she meant
that either of them had loved other with entire heart. But Sir Tristram answered her thus:
Fair lady, it is not my part to have ado in such matters while her lord and husband is present
here; and if it had been that her lord had not been here in this court, then for the worship
of this court peradventure I would have been her champion, and if so be Sir Segwarides speed
not well, it may happen that I will speak with that good knight or ever he pass from this country.

Then within a while came one of Sir Segwarides' squires, and told in the court that Sir Segwarides
was beaten sore and wounded to the point of death; as he would have rescued his lady Sir Bleoberis
overthrew him and sore hath wounded him. Then was King Mark heavy thereof, and all the court.
When Sir Tristram heard of this he was ashamed and sore grieved; and then was he soon armed
and on horseback, and Gouvernail, his servant, bare his shield and spear. And so as Sir Tristram
rode fast he met with Sir Andred his cousin, that by the commandment of King Mark was sent
to bring forth, an ever it lay in his power, two knights of Arthur's court, that rode by the
country to seek their adventures. When Sir Tristram saw Sir Andred he asked him what tidings.
So God me help, said Sir Andred, there was never worse with me, for here by the commandment
of King Mark I was sent to fetch two knights of King Arthur's court, and that one beat me and
wounded me, and set nought by my message. Fair cousin, said Sir Tristram, ride on your way,
and if I may meet them it may happen I shall revenge you. So Sir Andred rode into Cornwall,
and Sir Tristram rode after the two knights, the which one hight Sagramore le Desirous, and
the other hight Dodinas le Savage.

THEN within a while Sir Tristram saw them afore him, two likely knights. Sir, said Gouvernail
unto his master, Sir, I would counsel you not to have ado with them, for they be two proved
knights of Arthur's court. As for that, said Sir Tristram, have ye no doubt but I will have
ado with them to increase my worship, for it is many day sithen I did any deeds of arms. Do
as ye list, said Gouvernail. And therewithal anon Sir Tristram asked them from whence they
came, and whither they would, and what they did in those marches. Sir Sagramore looked upon
Sir Tristram, and had scorn of his words, and asked him again, Fair knight, be ye a knight
of Cornwall? Whereby ask ye it? said Sir Tristram. For it is seldom seen, said Sir Sagramore,
that ye Cornish knights be valiant men of arms; for within these two hours there met us one
of your Cornish knights, and great words he spake, and anon with little might he was laid to
the earth. And, as I trow, said Sir Sagramore, ye shall have the same handsel that he had.
Fair lords, said Sir Tristram, it may so happen that I may better withstand than he did, and
whether ye will or nill I will have ado with you, because he was my cousin that ye beat. And
therefore here do your best, and wit ye well but if ye quit you the better here upon this ground,
one knight of Cornwall shall beat you both.

When Sir Dodinas le Savage heard him say so he gat a spear in his hand, and said, Sir knight,
keep well thyself: And then they departed and came together as it had been thunder. And Sir
Dodinas' spear brast in-sunder, but Sir Tristram smote him with a more might, that he smote
him clean over the horse-croup, that nigh he had broken his neck. When Sir Sagramore saw his
fellow have such a fall he marvelled what knight he might be. And he dressed his spear with
all his might, and Sir Tristram against him, and they came together as the thunder, and there
Sir Tristram smote Sir Sagramore a strong buffet, that he bare his horse and him to the earth,
and in the falling he brake his thigh.

When this was done Sir Tristram asked them: Fair knights, will ye any more? Be there no bigger
knights in the court of King Arthur? it is to you shame to say of us knights of Cornwall dishonour,
for it may happen a Cornish knight may match you. That is truth, said Sir Sagramore, that have
we well proved; but I require thee, said Sir Sagramore, tell us your right name, by the faith
and troth that ye owe to the high order of knighthood. Then were they two knights fain that
they had met with Tristram, and so they prayed him to abide in their fellowship. Nay, said
Sir Tristram, for I must have ado with one of your fellows, his name is Sir Bleoberis de Ganis.
God speed you well, said Sir Sagramore and Dodinas. Sir Tristram departed and rode onward on
his way. And then was he ware before him in a valley where rode Sir Bleoberis, with Sir Segwarides'
lady, that rode behind his squire upon a palfrey.

THEN Sir Tristram rode more than a pace until that he had overtaken him. Then spake Sir Tristram:
Abide, he said, Knight of Arthur's court, bring again that lady, or deliver her to me. I will
do neither, said Bleoberis, for I dread no Cornish knight so sore that me list to deliver her.
Why, said Sir Tristram, may not a Cornish knight do as well as another knight? this same day
two knights of your court within this three mile met with me, and or ever we departed they
found a Cornish knight good enough for them both. What were their names? said Bleoberis. They
told me, said Sir Tristram, that the one of them hight Sir Sagramore le Desirous, and the other
hight Dodinas le Savage. Ah, said Sir Bleoberis, have ye met with them? so God me help, they
were two good knights and men of great worship, and if ye have beat them both ye must needs
be a good knight; but if it so be ye have beat them both, yet shall ye not fear me, but ye
shall beat me or ever ye have this lady. Then defend you, said Sir Tristram. So they departed
and came together like thunder, and either bare other down, horse and all, to the earth.

Then they avoided their horses, and lashed together eagerly with swords, and mightily, now
tracing and traversing on the right hand and on the left hand more than two hours. And sometime
they rushed together with such a might that they lay both grovelling on the ground. Then Sir
Bleoberis de Ganis stert aback, and said thus: Now, gentle good knight, a while hold your hands,
and let us speak together. Say what ye will, said Tristram, and I will answer you. Sir, said
Bleoberis, I would wit of whence ye be, and of whom ye be come, and what is your name? So God
me help, said Sir Tristram, I fear not to tell you my name. Wit ye well I am King Meliodas'
son, and my mother is King Mark's sister, and my name is Sir Tristram de Liones, and King Mark
is mine uncle. Truly, said Bleoberis, I am right glad of you, for ye are he that slew Marhaus
the knight, hand for hand in an island, for the truage of Cornwall; also ye overcame Sir Palamides
the good knight, at a tournament in an island, where ye beat Sir Gawaine and his nine fellows.
So God me help, said Sir Tristram, wit ye well that I am the same knight; now I have told you
my name, tell me yours with good will. Wit ye well that my name is Sir Bleoberis de Ganis,
and my brother hight Sir Blamore de Ganis, that is called a good knight, and we be sister's
children unto my lord Sir Launcelot du Lake, that we call one of the best knights of the world.
That is truth, said Sir Tristram, Sir Launcelot is called peerless of courtesy and of knighthood;
and for his sake, said Sir Tristram, I will not with my good will fight no more with you, for
the great love I have to Sir Launcelot du Lake. In good faith, said Bleoberis, as for me I
will be loath to fight with you; but sithen ye follow me here to have this lady, I shall proffer
you kindness, courtesy, and gentleness right here upon this ground. This lady shall be betwixt
us both, and to whom that she will go, let him have her in peace. I will well, said Tristram,
for, as I deem, she will leave you and come to me. Ye shall prove it anon, said Bleoberis.
And therewithal she went unto Sir Bleoberis.

When Sir Tristram saw her do so he was wonderly wroth with that lady, and ashamed to come to
the court. Sir Tristram, said Sir Bleoberis, ye are in the default, for I hear by this lady's
words she before this day trusted you above all earthly knights, and, as she saith, ye have
deceived her, therefore wit ye well, there may no man hold that will away; and rather than
ye should be heartily displeased with me I would ye had her, an she would abide with you. Nay,
said the lady, so God me help I will never go with him; for he that I loved most I weened he
had loved me. And therefore, Sir Tristram, she said, ride as thou came, for though thou haddest
overcome this knight, as ye was likely, with thee never would I have gone. And I shall pray
this knight so fair of his knighthood, that or ever he pass this country, that he will lead
me to the abbey where my lord Sir Segwarides lieth. So God me help, said Bleoberis, I let you
wit, good knight Sir Tristram, because King Mark gave me the choice of a gift in this court,
and so this lady liked me best--notwithstanding, she is wedded and hath a lord, and I have
fulfilled my quest, she shall be sent unto her husband again, and in especial most for your
sake, Sir Tristram; and if she would go with you I would ye had her. I thank you, said Sir
Tristram, but for her love I shall beware what manner a lady I shall love or trust; for had
her lord, Sir Segwarides, been away from the court, I should have been the first that should
have followed you; but sithen that ye have refused me, as I am true knight I shall her know
passingly well that I shall love or trust. And so they took their leave one from the other
and departed.

And so Sir Tristram rode unto Tintagil, and Sir Bleoberis rode unto the abbey where Sir Segwarides
lay sore wounded, and there he delivered his lady, and departed as a noble knight; and when
Sir Segwarides saw his lady, he was greatly comforted; and then she told him that Sir Tristram
had done great battle with Sir Bleoberis, and caused him to bring her again. These words pleased
Sir Segwarides right well, that Sir Tristram would do so much; and so that lady told all the
battle unto King Mark betwixt Sir Tristram and Sir Bleoberis.

THEN when this was done King Mark cast always in his heart how he might destroy Sir Tristram.
And then he imagined in himself to send Sir Tristram into Ireland for La Beale Isoud. For Sir
Tristram had so praised her beauty and her goodness that King Mark said that he would wed her,
whereupon he prayed Sir Tristram to take his way into Ireland for him on message. For Sir Tristram
took with him the most goodliest knights that he might find in the court; and they were arrayed,
after the guise that was then used, in the goodliest manner. So Sir Tristram departed and took
the sea with all his fellowship. And anon, as he was in the broad sea a tempest took him and
his fellowship, and drove them back into the coast of England; and there they arrived fast
by Camelot, and full fain they were to take the land.

And when they were landed Sir Tristram set up his pavilion upon the land of Camelot, and there
he let hang his shield upon the pavilion. And that same day came two knights of King Arthur's,
that one was Sir Ector de Maris, and Sir Morganor. And they touched the shield, and bade him
come out of the pavilion for to joust, an he would joust. Ye shall be answered, said Sir Tristram,
an ye will tarry a little while. So he made him ready, and first he smote down Sir Ector de
Maris, and after he smote down Sir Morganor, all with one spear, and sore bruised them. And
when they lay upon the earth they asked Sir Tristram what he was, and of what country he was
knight. Fair lords, said Sir Tristram, wit ye well that I am of Cornwall. Alas, said Sir Ector,
now am I ashamed that ever any Cornish knight should overcome me. And then for despite Sir
Ector put off his armour from him, and went on foot, and would not ride.

THEN it fell that Sir Bleoberis and Sir Blamore de Ganis, that were brethren, they had summoned
the King Anguish of Ireland for to come to Arthur's court upon pain of forfeiture of King Arthur's
good grace. And if the King of Ireland came not in, at the day assigned and set, the king should
lose his lands. So it happened that at the day assigned, King Arthur neither Sir Launcelot
might not be there for to give the judgment, for King Arthur was with Sir Launcelot at the
Castle Joyous Garde. And so King Arthur assigned King Carados and the King of Scots to be there
that day as judges. So when the kings were at Camelot King Anguish of Ireland was come to know
his accusers. Then was there Sir Blamore de Ganis, and appealed the King of Ireland of treason,
that he had slain a cousin of his in his court in Ireland by treason. The king was sore abashed
of his accusation, for-why he was come at the summons of King Arthur, and or he came at Camelot
he wist not wherefore he was sent after. And when the king heard Sir Blamore say his will,
he understood well there was none other remedy but for to answer him knightly; for the custom
was such in those days, that an any man were appealed of any treason or murder he should fight
body for body, or else to find another knight for him. And all manner of murders in those days
were called treason.

So when King Anguish understood his accusing he was passing heavy, for he knew Sir Blamore
de Ganis that he was a noble knight, and of noble knights come. Then the King of Ireland was
simply purveyed of his answer; therefore the judges gave him respite by the third day to give
his answer. So the king departed unto his lodging. The meanwhile there came a lady by Sir Tristram's
pavilion making great dole. What aileth you, said Sir Tristram, that ye make such dole? Ah,
fair knight, said the lady, I am ashamed unless that some good knight help me; for a great
lady of worship sent by me a fair child and a rich, unto Sir Launcelot du Lake, and hereby
there met with me a knight, and threw me down from my palfrey, and took away the child from
me. Well, my lady, said Sir Tristram, and for my lord Sir Launcelot's sake I shall get you
that child again, or else I shall be beaten for it. And so Sir Tristram took his horse, and
asked the lady which way the knight rode; and then she told him. And he rode after him, and
within a while he overtook that knight. And then Sir Tristram bade him turn and give again
the child.

THE knight turned his horse and made him ready to fight. And then Sir Tristram smote him with
a sword such a buffet that he tumbled to the earth. And then he yielded him unto Sir Tristram.
Then come thy way, said Sir Tristram, and bring the child to the lady again. So he took his
horse meekly and rode with Sir Tristram; and then by the way Sir Tristram asked him his name.
Then he said, My name is Breuse Saunce Pite. So when he had delivered that child to the lady,
he said: Sir, as in this the child is well remedied. Then Sir Tristram let him go again that
sore repented him after, for he was a great foe unto many good knights of King Arthur's court.

Then when Sir Tristram was in his pavilion Gouvernail, his man, came and told him how that
King Anguish of Ireland was come thither, and he was put in great distress; and there Gouvernail
told Sir Tristram how King Anguish was summoned and appealed of murder. So God me help, said
Sir Tristram, these be the best tidings that ever came to me this seven years, for now shall
the King of Ireland have need of my help; for I daresay there is no knight in this country
that is not of Arthur's court dare do battle with Sir Blamore de Ganis; and for to win the
love of the King of Ireland I will take the battle upon me; and therefore Gouvernail bring
me, I charge thee, to the king.

Then Gouvernail went unto King Anguish of Ireland, and saluted him fair. The king welcomed
him and asked him what he would. Sir, said Gouvernail, here is a knight near hand that desireth
to speak with you: he bade me say he would do you service. What knight is he? said the king.
Sir, said he, it is Sir Tristram de Liones, that for your good grace that ye showed him in
your lands will reward you in this country. Come on, fellow, said the king, with me anon and
show me unto Sir Tristram. So the king took a little hackney and but few fellowship with him,
until he came unto Sir Tristram's pavilion. And when Sir Tristram saw the king he ran unto
him and would have holden his stirrup. But the king leapt from his horse lightly, and either
halsed other in their arms. My gracious lord, said Sir Tristram, gramercy of your great goodnesses
showed unto me in your marches and lands: and at that time I promised you to do you service
an ever it lay in my power. And, gentle knight, said the king unto Sir Tristram, now have I
great need of you, never had I so great need of no knight's help. How so, my good lord? said
Sir Tristram. I shall tell you, said the king: I am summoned and appealed from my country for
the death of a knight that was kin unto the good knight Sir Launcelot; wherefore Sir Blamore
de Ganis, brother to Sir Bleoberis hath appealed me to fight with him, outher to find a knight
in my stead. And well I wot, said the king, these that are come of King Ban's blood, as Sir
Launcelot and these other, are passing good knights, and hard men for to win in battle as any
that I know now living. Sir, said Sir Tristram, for the good lordship ye showed me in Ireland,
and for my lady your daughter's sake, La Beale Isoud, I will take the battle for you upon this
condition that ye shall grant me two things: that one is that ye shall swear to me that ye
are in the right, that ye were never consenting to the knight's death; Sir, then said Sir Tristram,
when that I have done this battle, if God give me grace that I speed, that ye shall give me
a reward, what thing reasonable that I will ask of you. So God me help, said the king, ye shall
have whatsomever ye will ask. It is well said, said Sir Tristram.

NOW make your answer that your champion is ready, for I shall die in your quarrel rather than
to be recreant. I have no doubt of you, said the king, that, an ye should have ado with Sir
Launcelot du Lake-- Sir, said Sir Tristram, as for Sir Launcelot, he is called the noblest
knight of the world, and wit ye well that the knights of his blood are noble men, and dread
shame; and as for Bleoberis, brother unto Sir Blamore, I have done battle with him, therefore
upon my head it is no shame to call him a good knight. It is noised, said the king, that Blamore
is the hardier knight. Sir, as for that let him be, he shall never be refused, an as he were
the best knight that now beareth shield or spear.

So King Anguish departed unto King Carados and the kings that were that time as judges, and
told them that he had found his champion ready. Then by the commandment of the kings Sir Blamore
de Ganis and Sir Tristram were sent for to hear the charge. And when they were come before
the judges there were many kings and knights beheld Sir Tristram, and much speech they had
of him because that he slew Sir Marhaus, the good knight, and because he for-jousted Sir Palamides
the good knight. So when they had taken their charge they withdrew them to make them ready
to do battle.

Then said Sir Bleoberis unto his brother, Sir Blamore: Fair dear brother, remember of what
kin we be come of, and what a man is Sir Launcelot du Lake, neither farther nor nearer but
brother's children, and there was never none of our kin that ever was shamed in battle; and
rather suffer death, brother, than to be shamed. Brother, said Blamore, have ye no doubt of
me, for I shall never shame none of my blood; howbeit I am sure that yonder knight is called
a passing good knight as of his time one of the world, yet shall I never yield me, nor say
the loath word: well may he happen to smite me down with his great might of chivalry, but rather
shall he slay me than I shall yield me as recreant. God speed you well, said Sir Bleoberis,
for ye shall find him the mightiest knight that ever ye had ado withal, for I know him, for
I have had ado with him. God me speed, said Sir Blamore de Ganis; and therewith he took his
horse at the one end of the lists, and Sir Tristram at the other end of the lists, and so they
feutred their spears and came together as it had been thunder; and there Sir Tristram through
great might smote down Sir Blamore and his horse to the earth. Then anon Sir Blamore avoided
his horse and pulled out his sword and threw his shield afore him, and bade Sir Tristram alight:
For though an horse hath failed me, I trust to God the earth will not fail me. And then Sir
Tristram alighted, and dressed him unto battle; and there they lashed together strongly as
racing and tracing, foining and dashing, many sad strokes, that the kings and knights had great
wonder that they might stand; for ever they fought like wood men, so that there was never knights
seen fight more fiercely than they did; for Sir Blamore was so hasty that he would have no
rest, that all men wondered that they had breath to stand on their feet; and all the place
was bloody that they fought in. And at the last, Sir Tristram smote Sir Blamore such a buffet
upon the helm that he there fell down upon his side, and Sir Tristram stood and beheld him.

THEN when Sir Blamore might speak, he said thus: Sir Tristram de Liones, I require thee, as
thou art a noble knight, and the best knight that ever I found, that thou wilt slay me out,
for I would not live to be made lord of all the earth, for I have liefer die with worship than
live with shame; and needs, Sir Tristram, thou must slay me, or else thou shalt never win the
field, for I will never say the loath word. And therefore if thou dare slay me, slay me, I
require thee. When Sir Tristram heard him say so knightly, he wist not what to do with him;
he remembering him of both parties, of what blood he was come, and for Sir Launcelot's sake
he would be loath to slay him; and in the other party in no wise he might not choose, but that
he must make him to say the loath word, or else to slay him.

Then Sir Tristram stert aback, and went to the kings that were judges, and there he kneeled
down to-fore them, and besought them for their worships, and for King Arthur's and Sir Launcelot's
sake, that they would take this matter in their hands. For, my fair lords, said Sir Tristram,
it were shame and pity that this noble knight that yonder lieth should be slain; for ye hear
well, shamed will he not be, and I pray to God that he never be slain nor shamed for me. And
as for the king for whom I fight for, I shall require him, as I am his true champion and true
knight in this field, that he will have mercy upon this good knight. So God me help, said King
Anguish, I will for your sake; Sir Tristram, be ruled as ye will have me, for I know you for
my true knight; and therefore I will heartily pray the kings that be here as judges to take
it in their hands. And the kings that were judges called Sir Bleoberis to them, and asked him
his advice. My lords, said Bleoberis, though my brother be beaten, and hath the worse through
might of arms, I dare say, though Sir Tristram hath beaten his body he hath not beaten his
heart, and I thank God he is not shamed this day; and rather than he should be shamed I require
you, said Bleoberis, let Sir Tristram slay him out. It shall not be so, said the kings, for
his part adversary, both the king and the champion, have pity of Sir Blamore's knighthood.
My lords, said Bleoberis, I will right well as ye will.

Then the kings called the King of Ireland, and found him goodly and treatable. And then, by
all their advices, Sir Tristram and Sir Bleoberis took up Sir Blamore, and the two brethren
were accorded with King Anguish, and kissed and made friends for ever. And then Sir Blamore
and Sir Tristram kissed together, and there they made their oaths that they would never none
of them two brethren fight with Sir Tristram, and Sir Tristram made the same oath. And for
that gentle battle all the blood of Sir Launcelot loved Sir Tristram for ever.

Then King Anguish and Sir Tristram took their leave, and sailed into Ireland with great noblesse
and joy.

CHAPTER XXIV.

THEN upon a day King Anguish asked Sir Tristram why he asked not his boon, for whatsomever
he had promised him he should have it without fail. Sir, an I did then I were shamed for ever
in this world, and false of my promise. Then they laughed and made good cheer, and either drank
to other freely, and they thought never drink that ever they drank to other was so sweet nor
so good. But by that their drink was in their bodies, they loved either other so well that
never their love departed for weal neither for woe. And thus it happed the love first betwixt
Sir Tristram and La Beale Isoud, the which love never departed the days of their life.

So then they sailed till by fortune they came nigh a castle that hight Pluere, and thereby
arrived for to repose them, weening to them to have had good harbourage. But anon as Sir Tristram
was within the castle they were taken prisoners; for the custom of the castle was such; who
that rode by that castle and brought any lady, he must needs fight with the lord, that hight
Breunor. And if it were so that Breunor won the field, then should the knight stranger and
his lady be put to death, what that ever they were; and if it were so that the strange knight
won the field of Sir Breunor, then should he die and his lady both. This custom was used many
winters, for it was called the Castle Pluere, that is to say the Weeping Castle.

THUS as Sir Tristram and La Beale Isoud were in prison, it happed a knight and a lady came
unto them where they were, to cheer them. I have marvel, said Tristram unto the knight and
the lady, what is the cause the lord of this castle holdeth us in prison: it was never the
custom of no place of worship that ever I came in, when a knight and a lady asked harbour,
and they to receive them, and after to destroy them that be his guests. Sir, said the knight,
this is the old custom of this castle, that when a knight cometh here he must needs fight with
our lord, and he that is weaker must lose his head. And when that is done, if his lady that
he bringeth be fouler than our lord's wife, she must lose her head: and if she be fairer proved
than is our lady, then shall the lady of this castle lose her head. So God me help, said Sir
Tristram, this is a foul custom and a shameful. But one advantage have I, said Sir Tristram,
I have a lady is fair enough, fairer saw I never in all my life-days, and I doubt not for lack
of beauty she shall not lose her head; and rather than I should lose my head I will fight for
it on a fair field. Wherefore, sir knight, I pray you tell your lord that I will be ready as
to-morn with my lady, and myself to do battle, if it be so I may have my horse and mine armour.
Sir, said that knight, I undertake that your desire shall be sped right well. And then he said:
Take your rest, and look that ye be up betimes and make you ready and your lady, for ye shall
want no thing that you behoveth. And therewith he departed, and on the morn betimes that same
knight came to Sir Tristram, and fetched him out and his lady, and brought him horse and armour
that was his own, and bade him make him ready to the field, for all the estates and commons
of that lordship were there ready to behold that battle and judgment.

Then came Sir Breunor, the lord of that castle, with his lady in his hand, muffled, and asked
Sir Tristram where was his lady: For an thy lady be fairer than mine, with thy sword smite
off my lady's head; and if my lady be fairer than thine, with my sword I must strike off her
head. And if I may win thee, yet shall thy lady be mine, and thou shalt lose thy head. Sir,
said Tristram, this is a foul custom and horrible; and rather than my lady should lose her
head, yet had I liefer lose my head. Nay, nay, said Sir Breunor, the ladies shall be first
showed together, and the one shall have her judgment. Nay, I will not so, said Sir Tristram,
for here is none that will give righteous judgment. But I doubt not, said Sir Tristram, my
lady is fairer than thine, and that will I prove and make good with my hand. And whosomever
he be that will say the contrary I will prove it on his head. And therewith Sir Tristram showed
La Beale Isoud, and turned her thrice about with his naked sword in his hand. And when Sir
Breunor saw that, he did the same wise turn his lady. But when Sir Breunor beheld La Beale
Isoud, him thought he saw never a fairer lady, and then he dread his lady's head should be
off. And so all the people that were there present gave judgment that La Beale Isoud was the
fairer lady and the better made. How now, said Sir Tristram, meseemeth it were pity that my
lady should lose her head, but because thou and she of long time have used this wicked custom,
and by you both have many good knights and ladies been destroyed, for that cause it were no
loss to destroy you both. So God me help, said Sir Breunor, for to say the sooth, thy lady
is fairer than mine, and that me sore repenteth. And so I hear the people privily say, for
of all women I saw none so fair; and therefore, an thou wilt slay my lady, I doubt not but
I shall slay thee and have thy lady. Thou shalt win her, said Sir Tristram, as dear as ever
knight won lady. And because of thine own judgment, as thou wouldst have done to my lady if
that she had been fouler, and because of the evil custom, give me thy lady, said Sir Tristram.
And therewithal Sir Tristram strode unto him and took his lady from him, and with an awk stroke
he smote off her head clean. Well, knight, said Sir Breunor, now hast thou done me a despite;
[*8]now take thine horse: sithen I am ladyless I will win thy lady an I may.

[*8] Printed by Caxton as part of chap. xxvi.

THEN they took their horses and came together as it had been the thunder; and Sir Tristram
smote Sir Breunor clean from his horse, and lightly he rose up; and as Sir Tristram came again
by him he thrust his horse throughout both the shoulders, that his horse hurled here and there
and fell dead to the ground. And ever Sir Breunor ran after to have slain Sir Tristram, but
Sir Tristram was light and nimble, and voided his horse lightly. And or ever Sir Tristram might
dress his shield and his sword the other gave him three or four sad strokes. Then they rushed
together like two boars, tracing and traversing mightily and wisely as two noble knights. For
this Sir Breunor was a proved knight, and had been or then the death of many good knights,
that it was pity that he had so long endured.

Thus they fought, hurling here and there nigh two hours, and either were wounded sore. Then
at the last Sir Breunor rashed upon Sir Tristram and took him in his arms, for he trusted much
in his strength. Then was Sir Tristram called the strongest and the highest knight of the world;
for he was called bigger than Sir Launcelot, but Sir Launcelot was better breathed. So anon
Sir Tristram thrust Sir Breunor down grovelling, and then he unlaced his helm and struck off
his head. And then all they that longed to the castle came to him, and did him homage and fealty,
praying him that he would abide there still a little while to fordo that foul custom. Sir Tristram
granted thereto. The meanwhile one of the knights of the castle rode unto Sir Galahad, the
haut prince, the which was Sir Breunor's son, which was a noble knight, and told him what misadventure
his father had and his mother.

THEN came Sir Galahad, and the King with the Hundred Knights with him; and this Sir Galahad
proffered to fight with Sir Tristram hand for hand. And so they made them ready to go unto
battle on horseback with great courage. Then Sir Galahad and Sir Tristram met together so hard
that either bare other down, horse and all, to the earth. And then they avoided their horses
as noble knights, and dressed their shields, and drew their swords with ire and rancour, and
they lashed together many sad strokes, and one while striking, another while foining, tracing
and traversing as noble knights; thus they fought long, near half a day, and either were sore
wounded. At the last Sir Tristram waxed light and big, and doubled his strokes, and drove Sir
Galahad aback on the one side and on the other, so that he was like to have been slain.

With that came the King with the Hundred Knights, and all that fellowship went fiercely upon
Sir Tristram. When Sir Tristram saw them coming upon him, then he wist well he might not endure.
Then as a wise knight of war, he said to Sir Galahad, the haut prince: Sir, ye show to me no
knighthood, for to suffer all your men to have ado with me all at once; and as meseemeth ye
be a noble knight of your hands it is great shame to you. So God me help, said Sir Galahad,
there is none other way but thou must yield thee to me, other else to die, said Sir Galahad
to Sir Tristram. I will rather yield me to you than die for that is more for the might of your
men than of your hands. And therewithal Sir Tristram took his own sword by the point, and put
the pommel in the hand of Sir Galahad.

Therewithal came the King with the Hundred Knights, and hard began to assail Sir Tristram.
Let be, said Sir Galahad, be ye not so hardy to touch him, for I have given this knight his
life. That is your shame, said the King with the Hundred Knights; hath he not slain your father
and your mother? As for that, said Sir Galahad, I may not wite him greatly, for my father had
him in prison, and enforced him to do battle with him; and my father had such a custom that
was a shameful custom, that what knight came there to ask harbour his lady must needs die but
if she were fairer than my mother; and if my father overcame that knight he must needs die.
This was a shameful custom and usage, a knight for his harbour-asking to have such harbourage.
And for this custom I would never draw about him. So God me help, said the King, this was a
shameful custom. Truly, said Sir Galahad, so seemed me; and meseemed it had been great pity
that this knight should have been slain, for I dare say he is the noblest man that beareth
life, but if it were Sir Launcelot du Lake. Now, fair knight, said Sir Galahad, I require thee
tell me thy name, and of whence thou art, and whither thou wilt. Sir, he said, my name is Sir
Tristram de Liones, and from King Mark of Cornwall I was sent on message unto King Anguish
of Ireland, for to fetch his daughter to be his wife, and here she is ready to go with me into
Cornwall, and her name is La Beale Isoud. And, Sir Tristram, said Sir Galahad, the haut prince,
well be ye found in these marches, and so ye will promise me to go unto Sir Launcelot du Lake,
and accompany with him, ye shall go where ye will, and your fair lady with you; and I shall
promise you never in all my days shall such customs be used in this castle as have been used.
Sir, said Sir Tristram, now I let you wit, so God me help, I weened ye had been Sir Launcelot
du Lake when I saw you first, and therefore I dread you the more; and sir, I promise you, said
Sir Tristram, as soon as I may I will see Sir Launcelot and in fellowship me with him; for
of all the knights of the world I most desire his fellowship.

AND then Sir Tristram took his leave when he saw his time, and took the sea. And in the meanwhile
word came unto Sir Launcelot and to Sir Tristram that Sir Carados, the mighty king, that was
made like a giant, fought with Sir Gawaine, and gave him such strokes that he swooned in his
saddle, and after that he took him by the collar and pulled him out of his saddle, and fast
bound him to the saddle-bow, and so rode his way with him toward his castle. And as he rode,
by fortune Sir Launcelot met with Sir Carados, and anon he knew Sir Gawaine that lay bound
after him. Ah, said Sir Launcelot unto Sir Gawaine, how stands it with you? Never so hard,
said Sir Gawaine, unless that ye help me, for so God me help, without ye rescue me I know no
knight that may, but outher you or Sir Tristram. Wherefore Sir Launcelot was heavy of Sir Gawaine's
words. And then Sir Launcelot bade Sir Carados: Lay down that knight and fight with me. Thou
art but a fool, said Sir Carados, for I will serve you in the same wise. As for that, said
Sir Launcelot, spare me not, for I warn thee I will not spare thee. And then he bound Sir Gawaine
hand and foot, and so threw him to the ground. And then he gat his spear of his squire, and
departed from Sir Launcelot to fetch his course. And so either met with other, and brake their
spears to their hands; and then they pulled out swords, and hurtled together on horseback more
than an hour. And at the last Sir Launcelot smote Sir Carados such a buffet upon the helm that
it pierced his brain-pan. So then Sir Launcelot took Sir Carados by the collar and pulled him
under his horse's feet, and then he alighted and pulled off his helm and struck off his head.
And then Sir Launcelot unbound Sir Gawaine. So this same tale was told to Sir Galahad and to
Sir Tristram:--here may ye hear the nobleness that followeth Sir Launcelot. Alas, said Sir
Tristram, an I had not this message in hand with this fair lady, truly I would never stint
or I had found Sir Launcelot. Then Sir Tristram and La Beale Isoud went to the sea and came
into Cornwall, and there all the barons met them.

AND anon they were richly wedded with great noblesse. But ever, as the French book saith, Sir
Tristram and La Beale Isoud loved ever together. Then was there great jousts and great tourneying,
and many lords and ladies were at that feast, and Sir Tristram was most praised of all other.
Thus dured the feast long, and after the feast was done, within a little while after, by the
assent of two ladies that were with Queen Isoud, they ordained for hate and envy for to destroy
Dame Bragwaine, that was maiden and lady unto La Beale Isoud; and she was sent into the forest
for to fetch herbs, and there she was met, and bound feet and hand to a tree, and so she was
bounden three days. And by fortune, Sir Palamides found Dame Bragwaine, and there he delivered
her from the death, and brought her to a nunnery there beside, for to be recovered. When Isoud
the queen missed her maiden, wit ye well she was right heavy as ever was any queen, for of
all earthly women she loved her best: the cause was for she came with her out of her country.
And so upon a day Queen Isoud walked into the forest to put away her thoughts, and there she
went herself unto a well and made great moan. And suddenly there came Palamides to her, and
had heard all her complaint, and said: Madam Isoud, an ye will grant me my boon, I shall bring
to you Dame Bragwaine safe and sound. And the queen was so glad of his proffer that suddenly
unadvised she granted all his asking. Well, Madam, said Palamides, I trust to your promise,
and if ye will abide here half an hour I shall bring her to you. I shall abide you, said La
Beale Isoud. And Sir Palamides rode forth his way to that nunnery, and lightly he came again
with Dame Bragwaine; but by her good will she would not have come again, because for love of
the queen she stood in adventure of her life. Notwithstanding, half against her will, she went
with Sir Palamides unto the queen. And when the queen saw her she was passing glad. Now, Madam,
said Palamides, remember upon your promise, for I have fulfilled my promise. Sir Palamides,
said the queen, I wot not what is your desire, but I will that ye wit, howbeit I promised you
largely, I thought none evil, nor I warn you none evil will I do. Madam, said Sir Palamides,
as at this time, ye shall not know my desire, but before my lord your husband there shall ye
know that I will have my desire that ye have promised me. And therewith the queen departed,
and rode home to the king, and Sir Palamides rode after her. And when Sir Palamides came before
the king, he said: Sir King, I require you as ye be a righteous king, that ye will judge me
the right. Tell me your cause, said the king, and ye shall have right.

SIR, said Palamides, I promised your Queen Isoud to bring again Dame Bragwaine that she had
lost, upon this covenant, that she should grant me a boon that I would ask, and without grudging,
outher advisement, she granted me. What say ye, my lady? said the king. It is as he saith,
so God me help, said the queen; to say thee sooth I promised him his asking for love and joy
that I had to see her. Well, Madam, said the king, and if ye were hasty to grant him what boon
he would ask, I will well that ye perform your promise. Then, said Palamides, I will that ye
wit that I will have your queen to lead her and govern her whereas me list. Therewith the king
stood still, and bethought him of Sir Tristram, and deemed that he would rescue her. And then
hastily the king answered: Take her with the adventures that shall fall of it, for as I suppose
thou wilt not enjoy her no while. As for that, said Palamides, I dare right well abide the
adventure. And so, to make short tale, Sir Palamides took her by the hand and said: Madam,
grudge not to go with me, for I desire nothing but your own promise. As for that, said the
queen, I fear not greatly to go with thee, howbeit thou hast me at advantage upon my promise,
for I doubt not I shall be worshipfully rescued from thee. As for that, said Sir Palamides,
be it as it be may. So Queen Isoud was set behind Palamides, and rode his way.

Anon the king sent after Sir Tristram, but in no wise he could be found, for he was in the
forest a-hunting; for that was always his custom, but if he used arms, to chase and to hunt
in the forests. Alas, said the king, now I am shamed for ever, that by mine own assent my lady
and my queen shall be devoured. Then came forth a knight, his name was Lambegus, and he was
a knight of Sir Tristram. My lord, said this knight, sith ye have trust in my lord, Sir Tristram,
wit ye well for his sake I will ride after your queen and rescue her, or else I shall be beaten.
Gramercy, said the king, as I live, Sir Lambegus, I shall deserve it. And then Sir Lambegus
armed him, and rode after as fast as he might. And then within a while he overtook Sir Palamides.
And then Sir Palamides left the queen. What art thou, said Palamides, art thou Tristram? Nay,
he said, I am his servant, and my name is Sir Lambegus. That me repenteth, said Palamides.
I had liefer thou hadst been Sir Tristram. I believe you well, said Lambegus, but when thou
meetest with Sir Tristram thou shalt have thy hands full. And then they hurtled together and
all to-brast their spears, and then they pulled out their swords, and hewed on helms and hauberks.
At the last Sir Palamides gave Sir Lambegus such a wound that he fell down like a dead knight
to the earth.

Then he looked after La Beale Isoud, and then she was gone he nist where. Wit ye well Sir Palamides
was never so heavy. So the queen ran into the forest, and there she found a well, and therein
she had thought to have drowned herself. And as good fortune would, there came a knight to
her that had a castle thereby, his name was Sir Adtherp. And when he found the queen in that
mischief he rescued her, and brought her to his castle. And when he wist what she was he armed
him, and took his horse, and said he would be avenged upon Palamides; and so he rode on till
he met with him, and there Sir Palamides wounded him sore, and by force he made him to tell
him the cause why he did battle with him, and how he had led the queen unto his castle. Now
bring me there, said Palamides, or thou shalt die of my hands. Sir, said Sir Adtherp, I am
so wounded I may not follow, but ride you this way and it shall bring you into my castle, and
there within is the queen. Then Sir Palamides rode still till he came to the castle. And at
a window La Beale Isoud saw Sir Palamides; then she made the gates to be shut strongly. And
when he saw he might not come within the castle, he put off his bridle and his saddle, and
put his horse to pasture, and set himself down at the gate like a man that was out of his wit
that recked not of himself.

NOW turn we unto Sir Tristram, that when he was come home and wist La Beale Isoud was gone
with Sir Palamides, wit ye well he was wroth out of measure. Alas, said Sir Tristram, I am
this day shamed. Then he cried to Gouvernail his man: Haste thee that I were armed and on horseback,
for well I wot Lambegus hath no might nor strength to withstand Sir Palamides: alas that I
have not been in his stead! So anon as he was armed and horsed Sir Tristram and Gouvernail
rode after into the forest, and within a while he found his knight Lambegus almost wounded
to the death; and Sir Tristram bare him to a forester, and charged him to keep him well. And
then he rode forth, and there he found Sir Adtherp sore wounded, and he told him how the queen
would have drowned herself had he not been, and how for her sake and love he had taken upon
him to do battle with Sir Palamides. Where is my lady? said Sir Tristram. Sir, said the knight,
she is sure enough within my castle, an she can hold her within it. Gramercy, said Sir Tristram,
of thy great goodness. And so he rode till he came nigh to that castle; and then Sir Tristram
saw where Sir Palamides sat at the gate sleeping, and his horse pastured fast afore him. Now
go thou, Gouvernail, said Sir Tristram, and bid him awake, and make him ready. So Gouvernail
rode unto him and said: Sir Palamides, arise, and take to thee thine harness. But he was in
such a study he heard not what Gouvernail said. So Gouvernail came again and told Sir Tristram
he slept, or else he was mad. Go thou again, said Sir Tristram, and bid him arise, and tell
him that I am here, his mortal foe. So Gouvernail rode again and put upon him the butt of his
spear, and said: Sir Palamides, make thee ready, for wit ye well Sir Tristram hoveth yonder,
and sendeth thee word he is thy mortal foe. And therewithal Sir Palamides arose stilly, without
words, and gat his horse, and saddled him and bridled him, and lightly he leapt upon, and gat
his spear in his hand, and either feutred their spears and hurtled fast together; and there
Tristram smote down Sir Palamides over his horse's tail. Then lightly Sir Palamides put his
shield afore him and drew his sword. And there began strong battle on both parts, for both
they fought for the love of one lady, and ever she lay on the walls and beheld them how they
fought out of measure, and either were wounded passing sore, but Palamides was much sorer wounded.
Thus they fought tracing and traversing more than two hours, that well-nigh for dole and sorrow
La Beale Isoud swooned. Alas, she said, that one I loved and yet do, and the other I love not,
yet it were great pity that I should see Sir Palamides slain; for well I know by that time
the end be done Sir Palamides is but a dead knight: because he is not christened I would be
loath that he should die a Saracen. And therewithal she came down and besought Sir Tristram
to fight no more. Ah, madam, said he, what mean you, will ye have me shamed? Well ye know I
will be ruled by you. I will not your dishonour, said La Beale Isoud, but I would that ye would
for my sake spare this unhappy Saracen Palamides. Madam, said Sir Tristram, I will leave fighting
at this time for your sake. Then she said to Sir Palamides: This shall be your charge, that
thou shalt go out of this country while I am therein. I will obey your commandment, said Sir
Palamides, the which is sore against my will. Then take thy way, said La Beale Isoud, unto
the court of King Arthur, and there recommend me unto Queen Guenever, and tell her that I send
her word that there be within this land but four lovers, that is, Sir Launcelot du Lake and
Queen Guenever, and Sir Tristram de Liones and Queen Isoud.

AND so Sir Palamides departed with great heaviness. And Sir Tristram took the queen and brought
her again to King Mark, and then was there made great joy of her home-coming. Who was cherished
but Sir Tristram! Then Sir Tristram let fetch Sir Lambegus, his knight, from the forester's
house, and it was long or he was whole, but at the last he was well recovered. Thus they lived
with joy and play a long while. But ever Sir Andred, that was nigh cousin to Sir Tristram,
lay in a watch to wait betwixt Sir Tristram and La Beale Isoud, for to take them and slander
them. And then King Mark fled, and Sir Tristram followed him, and smote upon him five or six
strokes flatling on the neck, that he made him to fall upon the nose. And then Sir Tristram
yede his way and armed him, and took his horse and his man, and so he rode into that forest.

And there upon a day Sir Tristram met with two brethren that were knights with King Mark, and
there he struck off the head of the one, and wounded the other to the death; and he made him
to bear his brother's head in his helm unto the king, and thirty more there he wounded. And
when that knight came before the king to say his message, he there died afore the king and
the queen. Sir, said the barons, in especial Sir Dinas, the Seneschal, Sir, we will give you
counsel for to send for Sir Tristram, for we will that ye wit many men will hold with Sir Tristram
an he were hard bestead. And sir, said Sir Dinas, ye shall understand that Sir Tristram is
called peerless and makeless of any Christian knight, and of his might and hardiness we knew
none so good a knight, but if it be Sir Launcelot du Lake. And if he depart from your court
and go to King Arthur's court, wit ye well he will get him such friends there that he will
not set by your malice. And therefore, sir, I counsel you to take him to your grace. I will
well, said the king, that he be sent for, that we may be friends. Then the barons sent for
Sir Tristram under a safe conduct. And so when Sir Tristram came to the king he was welcome,
and no rehearsal was made, and there was game and play.

THE king and the queen made their pavilions and their tents in that forest beside a river,
and there was daily hunting and jousting, for there were ever thirty knights ready to joust
unto all them that came in at that time. And there by fortune came Sir Lamorak de Galis and
Sir Driant; and there Sir Driant jousted right well, but at the last he had a fall. Then Sir
Lamorak proffered to joust. And when he began he fared so with the thirty knights that there
was not one of them but that he gave him a fall, and some of them were sore hurt. I marvel,
said King Mark, what knight he is that doth such deeds of arms. Sir, said Sir Tristram, I know
him well for a noble knight as few now be living, and his name is Sir Lamorak de Galis. It
were great shame, said the king, that he should go thus away, unless that some of you meet
with him better. Sir, said Sir Tristram, meseemeth it were no worship for a noble man to have
ado with him: and for because at this time he hath done over much for any mean knight living,
therefore, as meseemeth, it were great shame and villainy to tempt him any more at this time,
insomuch as he and his horse are weary both; for the deeds of arms that he hath done this day,
an they be well considered, it were enough for Sir Launcelot du Lake. As for that, said King
Mark, I require you, as ye love me and my lady the queen, La Beale Isoud, take your arms and
joust with Sir Lamorak de Galis. Sir, said Sir Tristram, ye bid me do a thing that is against
knighthood, and well I can deem that I shall give him a fall, for it is no mastery, for my
horse and I be fresh both, and so is not his horse and he; and wit ye well that he will take
it for great unkindness, for ever one good knight is loath to take another at disadvantage;
but because I will not displease you, as ye require me so will I do, and obey your commandment.

And so Sir Tristram armed him and took his horse, and put him forth, and there Sir Lamorak
met him mightily, and what with the might of his own spear, and of Sir Tristram's spear, Sir
Lamorak's horse fell to the earth, and he sitting in the saddle. Then anon as lightly as he
might he avoided the saddle and his horse, and put his shield afore him and drew his sword.
And then he bade Sir Tristram: Alight, thou knight, an thou durst. Nay, said Sir Tristram,
I will no more have ado with thee, for I have done to thee over much unto my dishonour and
to thy worship. As for that, said Sir Lamorak, I can thee no thank; since thou hast for-jousted
me on horseback I require thee and I beseech thee, an thou be Sir Tristram, fight with me on
foot. As for the shame, said Sir Lamorak, on thy part or on mine, bear thou it an thou wilt,
for though a mare's son hath failed me, now a queen's son shall not fail thee; and therefore,
an thou be such a knight as men call thee, I require thee, alight, and fight with me. Sir Lamorak,
said Sir Tristram, I understand your heart is great, and cause why ye have, to say thee sooth;
for it would grieve me an any knight should keep him fresh and then to strike down a weary
knight, for that knight nor horse was never formed that alway might stand or endure. And therefore,
said Sir Tristram, I will not have ado with you, for me forthinketh of that I have done. As
for that, said Sir Lamorak, I shall quit you, an ever I see my time.

So he departed from him with Sir Driant, and by the way they met with a knight that was sent
from Morgan le Fay unto King Arthur; and this knight had a fair horn harnessed with gold, and
the horn had such a virtue that there might no lady nor gentlewoman drink of that horn but
if she were true to her husband, and if she were false she should spill all the drink, and
if she were true to her lord she might drink peaceable. And because of the Queen Guenever,
and in the despite of Sir Launcelot, this horn was sent unto King Arthur; and by force Sir
Lamorak made that knight to tell all the cause why he bare that horn. Now shalt thou bear this
horn, said Lamorak, unto King Mark, or else choose thou to die for it; for I tell thee plainly,
in despite and reproof of Sir Tristram thou shalt bear that horn unto King Mark, his uncle,
and say thou to him that I sent it him for to assay his lady, and if she be true to him he
shall prove her. So the knight went his way unto King Mark, and brought him that rich horn,
and said that Sir Lamorak sent it him, and thereto he told him the virtue of that horn. Then
the king made Queen Isoud to drink thereof, and an hundred ladies, and there were but four
ladies of all those that drank clean. Alas, said King Mark, this is a great despite, and sware
a great oath that she should be burnt and the other ladies.

Then the barons gathered them together, and said plainly they would not have those ladies burnt
for an horn made by sorcery, that came from as false a sorceress and witch as then was living.
For that horn did never good, but caused strife and debate, and always in her days she had
been an enemy to all true lovers. So there were many knights made their avow, an ever they
met with Morgan le Fay, that they would show her short courtesy. Also Sir Tristram was passing
wroth that Sir Lamorak sent that horn unto King Mark, for well he knew that it was done in
the despite of him. And therefore he thought to quite Sir Lamorak.

Then Sir Tristram used daily and nightly to go to Queen Isoud when he might, and ever Sir Andred
his cousin watched him night and day for to take him with La Beale Isoud. And so upon a night
Sir Andred espied the hour and the time when Sir Tristram went to his lady. Then Sir Andred
gat unto him twelve knights, and at midnight he set upon Sir Tristram secretly and suddenly
and there Sir Tristram was taken naked abed with La Beale Isoud, and then was he bound hand
and foot, and so was he kept until day. And then by the assent of King Mark, and of Sir Andred,
and of some of the barons, Sir Tristram was led unto a chapel that stood upon the sea rocks,
there for to take his judgment: and so he was led bounden with forty knights. And when Sir
Tristram saw that there was none other boot but needs that he must die, then said he: Fair
lords, remember what I have done for the country of Cornwall, and in what jeopardy I have been
in for the weal of you all; for when I fought for the truage of Cornwall with Sir Marhaus,
the good knight, I was promised for to be better rewarded, when ye all refused to take the
battle; therefore, as ye be good gentle knights, see me not thus shamefully to die, for it
is shame to all knighthood thus to see me die; for I dare say, said Sir Tristram, that I never
met with no knight but I was as good as he, or better. Fie upon thee, said Sir Andred, false
traitor that thou art, with thine avaunting; for all thy boast thou shalt die this day. O Andred,
Andred, said Sir Tristram, thou shouldst be my kinsman, and now thou art to me full unfriendly,
but an there were no more but thou and I, thou wouldst not put me to death. No! said Sir Andred,
and therewith he drew his sword, and would have slain him. Then the cry was great, and the
people drew fast unto Sir Andred, mo than an hundred. When Sir Tristram saw the people draw
unto him, he remembered he was naked, and sperd fast the chapel door, and brake the bars of
a window, and so he leapt out and fell upon the crags in the sea. And so at that time Sir Andred
nor none of his fellows might get to him, at that time.

SO when they were departed, Gouvernail, and Sir Lambegus, and Sir Sentraille de Lushon, that
were Sir Tristram's men, sought their master. Sir, said Gouvernail, she is put in a lazar-cote.
Alas, said Sir Tristram, this is a full ungoodly place for such a fair lady, and if I may she
shall not be long there. And so he took his men and went thereas was La Beale Isoud, and fetched
her away, and brought her into a forest to a fair manor, and Sir Tristram there abode with
her. So the good knight bade his men go from him: For at this time I may not help you. So they
departed all save Gouvernail. And so upon a day Sir Tristram yede into the forest for to disport
him, and then it happened that there he fell sleep; and there came a man that Sir Tristram
aforehand had slain his brother, and when this man had found him he shot him through the shoulder
with an arrow, and Sir Tristram leapt up and killed that man. And in the meantime it was told
King Mark how Sir Tristram and La Beale Isoud were in that same manor, and as soon as ever
he might thither he came with many knights to slay Sir Tristram. And when he came there he
found him gone; and there he took La Beale Isoud home with him, and kept her strait that by
no means never she might wit nor send unto Tristram, nor he unto her. And then when Sir Tristram
came toward the old manor he found the track of many horses, and thereby he wist his lady was
gone. And then Sir Tristram took great sorrow, and endured with great pain long time, for the
arrow that he was hurt withal was envenomed.

Then by the mean of La Beale Isoud she told a lady that was cousin unto Dame Bragwaine, and
she came to Sir Tristram, and told him that he might not be whole by no means. For thy lady,
La Beale Isoud, may not help thee, therefore she biddeth you haste into Brittany to King Howel,
and there ye shall find his daughter, Isoud la Blanche Mains, and she shall help thee. Then
Sir Tristram and Gouvernail gat them shipping, and so sailed into Brittany. And when King Howel
wist that it was Sir Tristram he was full glad of him. Sir, he said, I am come into this country
to have help of your daughter, for it is told me that there is none other may heal me but she;
and so within a while she healed him.

THERE was an earl that hight Grip, and this earl made great war upon the king, and put the
king to the worse, and besieged him. And on a time Sir Kehydius, that was son to King Howel,
as he issued out he was sore wounded, nigh to the death. Then Gouvernail went to the king and
said: Sir, I counsel you to desire my lord, Sir Tristram, as in your need to help you. I will
do by your counsel, said the king. And so he yede unto Sir Tristram, and prayed him in his
wars to help him: For my son, Sir Kehydius, may not go into the field. Sir, said Sir Tristram,
I will go to the field and do what I may. Then Sir Tristram issued out of the town with such
fellowship as he might make, and did such deeds that all Brittany spake of him. And then, at
the last, by great might and force, he slew the Earl Grip with his own hands, and more than
an hundred knights he slew that day. And then Sir Tristram was received worshipfully with procession.
Then King Howel embraced him in his arms, and said: Sir Tristram, all my kingdom I will resign
to thee. God defend, said Sir Tristram, for I am beholden unto you for your daughter's sake
to do for you.

Then by the great means of King Howel and Kehydius his son, by great proffers, there grew great
love betwixt Isoud and Sir Tristram, for that lady was both good and fair, and a woman of noble
blood and fame. And for because Sir Tristram had such cheer and riches, and all other pleasaunce
that he had, almost he had forsaken La Beale Isoud. And so upon a time Sir Tristram agreed
to wed Isoud la Blanche Mains. And at the last they were wedded, and solemnly held their marriage.
And so when they were abed both Sir Tristram remembered him of his old lady La Beale Isoud.
And then he took such a thought suddenly that he was all dismayed, and other cheer made he
none but with clipping and kissing; as for other fleshly lusts Sir Tristram never thought nor
had ado with her: such mention maketh the French book; also it maketh mention that the lady
weened there had been no pleasure but kissing and clipping. And in the meantime there was a
knight in Brittany, his name was Suppinabiles, and he came over the sea into England, and then
he came into the court of King Arthur, and there he met with Sir Launcelot du Lake, and told
him of the marriage of Sir Tristram. Then said Sir Launcelot: Fie upon him, untrue knight to
his lady, that so noble a knight as Sir Tristram is should be found to his first lady false,
La Beale Isoud, Queen of Cornwall; but say ye him this, said Sir Launcelot, that of all knights
in the world I loved him most, and had most joy of him, and all was for his noble deeds; and
let him wit the love between him and me is done for ever, and that I give him warning from
this day forth as his mortal enemy.

THEN departed Sir Suppinabiles unto Brittany again, and there he found Sir Tristram, and told
him that he had been in King Arthur's court. Then said Sir Tristram: Heard ye anything of me?
So God me help, said Sir Suppinabiles, there I heard Sir Launcelot speak of you great shame,
and that ye be a false knight to your lady and he bade me do you to wit that he will be your
mortal enemy in every place where he may meet you. That me repenteth, said Tristram, for of
all knights I loved to be in his fellowship. So Sir Tristram made great moan and was ashamed
that noble knights should defame him for the sake of his lady. And in this meanwhile La Beale
Isoud made a letter unto Queen Guenever, complaining her of the untruth of Sir Tristram, and
how he had wedded the king's daughter of Brittany. Queen Guenever sent her another letter,
and bade her be of good cheer, for she should have joy after sorrow, for Sir Tristram was so
noble a knight called, that by crafts of sorcery ladies would make such noble men to wed them.
But in the end, Queen Guenever said, it shall be thus, that he shall hate her, and love you
better than ever he did to-fore.

So leave we Sir Tristram in Brittany, and speak we of Sir Lamorak de Galis, that as he sailed
his ship fell on a rock and perished all, save Sir Lamorak and his squire; and there he swam
mightily, and fishers of the Isle of Servage took him up, and his squire was drowned, and the
shipmen had great labour to save Sir Lamorak's life, for all the comfort that they could do.

And the lord of that isle, hight Sir Nabon le Noire, a great mighty giant. And this Sir Nabon
hated all the knights of King Arthur's, and in no wise he would do them favour. And these fishers
told Sir Lamorak all the guise of Sir Nabon; how there came never knight of King Arthur's but
he destroyed him. And at the last battle that he did was slain Sir Nanowne le Petite, the which
he put to a shameful death in despite of King Arthur, for he was drawn limb-meal. That forthinketh
me, said Sir Lamorak, for that knight's death, for he was my cousin; and if I were at mine
ease as well as ever I was, I would revenge his death. Peace, said the fishers, and make here
no words, for or ever ye depart from hence Sir Nabon must know that ye have been here, or else
we should die for your sake. So that I be whole, said Lamorak, of my disease that I have taken
in the sea, I will that ye tell him that I am a knight of King Arthur's, for I was never afeard
to reneye my lord.

NOW turn we unto Sir Tristram, that upon a day he took a little barget, and his wife Isoud
la Blanche Mains, with Sir Kehydius her brother, to play them in the coasts. And when they
were from the land, there was a wind drove them in to the coast of Wales upon this Isle of
Servage, whereas was Sir Lamorak, and there the barget all to-rove; and there Dame Isoud was
hurt; and as well as they might they gat into the forest, and there by a well he saw Segwarides
and a damosel. And then either saluted other. Sir, said Segwarides, I know you for Sir Tristram
de Liones, the man in the world that I have most cause to hate, because ye departed the love
between me and my wife; but as for that, said Sir Segwarides, I will never hate a noble knight
for a light lady; and therefore, I pray you, be my friend, and I will be yours unto my power;
for wit ye well ye are hard bestead in this valley, and we shall have enough to do either of
us to succour other. And then Sir Segwarides brought Sir Tristram to a lady thereby that was
born in Cornwall, and she told him all the perils of that valley, and how there came never
knight there but he were taken prisoner or slain. Wit you well, fair lady, said Sir Tristram,
that I slew Sir Marhaus and delivered Cornwall from the truage of Ireland, and I am he that
delivered the King of Ireland from Sir Blamore de Ganis, and I am he that beat Sir Palamides;
and wit ye well I am Sir Tristram de Liones, that by the grace of God shall deliver this woful
Isle of Servage. So Sir Tristram was well eased.

Then one told him there was a knight of King Arthur's that was wrecked on the rocks. What is
his name? said Sir Tristram. We wot not, said the fishers, but he keepeth it no counsel but
that he is a knight of King Arthur's, and by the mighty lord of this isle he setteth nought.
I pray you, said Sir Tristram, an ye may, bring him hither that I may see him, and if he be
any of the knights of Arthur's I shall know him. Then the lady prayed the fishers to bring
him to her place. So on the morrow they brought him thither in a fisher's raiment; and as soon
as Sir Tristram saw him he smiled upon him and knew him well, but he knew not Sir Tristram.
Fair sir, said Sir Tristram, meseemeth by your cheer ye have been diseased but late, and also
methinketh I should know you heretofore. I will well, said Sir Lamorak, that ye have seen me
and met with me. Fair sir, said Sir Tristram, tell me your name. Upon a covenant I will tell
you, said Sir Lamorak, that is, that ye will tell me whether ye be lord of this island or no,
that is called Nabon le Noire. Forsooth, said Sir Tristram, I am not he, nor I hold not of
him; I am his foe as well as ye be, and so shall I be found or I depart out of this isle. Well,
said Sir Lamorak, since ye have said so largely unto me, my name is Sir Lamorak de Galis, son
unto King Pellinore. Forsooth, I trow well, said Sir Tristram, for an ye said other I know
the contrary. What are ye, said Sir Lamorak, that knoweth me? I am Sir Tristram de Liones.
Ah, sir, remember ye not of the fall ye did give me once, and after ye refused me to fight
on foot. That was not for fear I had of you, said Sir Tristram, but me shamed at that time
to have more ado with you, for meseemed ye had enough; but, Sir Lamorak, for my kindness many
ladies ye put to a reproof when ye sent the horn from Morgan le Fay to King Mark, whereas ye
did this in despite of me. Well, said he, an it were to do again, so would I do, for I had
liefer strife and debate fell in King Mark's court rather than Arthur's court, for the honour
of both courts be not alike. As to that, said Sir Tristram, I know well; but that that was
done it was for despite of me, but all your malice, I thank God, hurt not greatly. Therefore,
said Sir Tristram, ye shall leave all your malice, and so will I, and let us assay how we may
win worship between you and me upon this giant Sir Nabon le Noire that is lord of this island,
to destroy him. Sir, said Sir Lamorak, now I understand your knighthood, it may not be false
that all men say, for of your bounty, noblesse, and worship, of all knights ye are peerless,
and for your courtesy and gentleness I showed you ungentleness, and that now me repenteth.

IN the meantime there came word that Sir Nabon had made a cry that all the people of that isle
should be at his castle the fifth day after. And the same day the son of Nabon should be made
knight, and all the knights of that valley and thereabout should be there to joust, and all
those of the realm of Logris should be there to joust with them of North Wales: and thither
came five hundred knights, and they of the country brought thither Sir Lamorak, and Sir Tristram,
and Sir Kehydius, and Sir Segwarides, for they durst none otherwise do; and then Sir Nabon
lent Sir Lamorak horse and armour at Sir Lamorak's desire, and Sir Lamorak jousted and did
such deeds of arms that Nabon and all the people said there was never knight that ever they
saw do such deeds of arms; for, as the French book saith, he for-jousted all that were there,
for the most part of five hundred knights, that none abode him in his saddle.

Then Sir Nabon proffered to play with him his play: For I saw never no knight do so much upon
a day. I will well, said Sir Lamorak, play as I may, but I am weary and sore bruised. And there
either gat a spear, but Nabon would not encounter with Sir Lamorak, but smote his horse in
the forehead, and so slew him; and then Sir Lamorak yede on foot, and turned his shield and
drew his sword, and there began strong battle on foot. But Sir Lamorak was so sore bruised
and short breathed, that he traced and traversed somewhat aback. Fair fellow, said Sir Nabon,
hold thy hand and I shall show thee more courtesy than ever I showed knight, because I have
seen this day thy noble knighthood, and therefore stand thou by, and I will wit whether any
of thy fellows will have ado with me. Then when Sir Tristram heard that, he stepped forth and
said: Nabon, lend me horse and sure armour, and I will have ado with thee. Well, fellow, said
Sir Nabon, go thou to yonder pavilion, and arm thee of the best thou findest there, and I shall
play a marvellous play with thee. Then said Sir Tristram: Look ye play well, or else peradventure
I shall learn you a new play. That is well said, fellow, said Sir Nabon. So when Sir Tristram
was armed as him liked best, and well shielded and sworded, he dressed to him on foot; for
well he knew that Sir Nabon would not abide a stroke with a spear, therefore he would slay
all knights' horses. Now, fair fellow, Sir Nabon, let us play. So then they fought long on
foot, tracing and traversing, smiting and foining long without any rest. At the last Sir Nabon
prayed him to tell him his name. Sir Nabon, I tell thee my name is Sir Tristram de Liones,
a knight of Cornwall under King Mark. Thou art welcome, said Sir Nabon, for of all knights
I have most desired to fight with thee or with Sir Launcelot.

So then they went eagerly together, and Sir Tristram slew Sir Nabon, and so forthwith he leapt
to his son, and struck off his head; and then all the country said they would hold of Sir Tristram.
Nay, said Sir Tristram, I will not so; here is a worshipful knight, Sir Lamorak de Galis, that
for me he shall be lord of this country, for he hath done here great deeds of arms. Nay, said
Sir Lamorak, I will not be lord of this country, for I have not deserved it as well as ye,
therefore give ye it where ye will, for I will none have. Well, said Sir Tristram, since ye
nor I will not have it, let us give it to him that hath not so well deserved it. Do as ye list,
said Segwarides, for the gift is yours, for I will none have an I had deserved it. So was it
given to Segwarides, whereof he thanked them; and so was he lord, and worshipfully he did govern
it. And then Sir Segwarides delivered all prisoners, and set good governance in that valley;
and so he returned into Cornwall, and told King Mark and La Beale Isoud how Sir Tristram had
advanced him to the Isle of Servage, and there he proclaimed in all Cornwall of all the adventures
of these two knights, so was it openly known. But full woe was La Beale Isoud when she heard
tell that Sir Tristram was wedded to Isoud la Blanche Mains.

CHAPTER XL

How Sir Lamorak departed from Sir Tristram, and how he met with Sir Frol, and after with Sir
Launcelot.

SO turn we unto Sir Lamorak, that rode toward Arthur's court, and Sir Tristram's wife and Kehydius
took a vessel and sailed into Brittany, unto King Howel, where he was welcome. And when he
heard of these adventures they marvelled of his noble deeds. Now turn we unto Sir Lamorak,
that when he was departed from Sir Tristram he rode out of the forest, till he came to an hermitage.
When the hermit saw him, he asked him from whence he came. Sir, said Sir Lamorak, I come from
this valley. Sir, said the hermit: thereof I marvel. For this twenty winter I saw never no
knight pass this country but he was either slain or villainously wounded, or pass as a poor
prisoner. Those ill customs, said Sir Lamorak, are fordone, for Sir Tristram slew your lord,
Sir Nabon, and his son. Then was the hermit glad, and all his brethren, for he said there was
never such a tyrant among Christian men. And therefore, said the hermit, this valley and franchise
we will hold of Sir Tristram.

So on the morrow Sir Lamorak departed; and as he rode he saw four knights fight against one,
and that one knight defended him well, but at the last the four knights had him down. And then
Sir Lamorak went betwixt them, and asked them why they would slay that one knight, and said
it was shame, four against one. Thou shalt well wit, said the four knights, that he is false.
That is your tale, said Sir Lamorak, and when I hear him also speak, I will say as ye say.
Then said Lamorak: Ah, knight, can ye not excuse you, but that ye are a false knight. Sir,
said he, yet can I excuse me both with my word and with my hands, that I will make good upon
one of the best of them, my body to his body. Then spake they all at once: We will not jeopardy
our bodies as for thee. But wit thou well, they said, an King Arthur were here himself, it
should not lie in his power to save his life. That is too much said, said Sir Lamorak, but
many speak behind a man more than they will say to his face; and because of your words ye shall
understand that I am one of the simplest of King Arthur's court; in the worship of my lord
now do your best, and in despite of you I shall rescue him. And then they lashed all at once
to Sir Lamorak, but anon at two strokes Sir Lamorak had slain two of them, and then the other
two fled. So then Sir Lamorak turned again to that knight, and asked him his name. Sir, he
said, my name is Sir Frol of the Out Isles. Then he rode with Sir Lamorak and bare him company.

And as they rode by the way they saw a seemly knight riding against them, and all in white.
Ah, said Frol, yonder knight jousted late with me and smote me down, therefore I will joust
with him. Ye shall not do so, said Sir Lamorak, by my counsel, an ye will tell me your quarrel,
whether ye jousted at his request, or he at yours. Nay, said Sir Frol, I jousted with him at
my request. Sir, said Lamorak, then will I counsel you deal no more with him, for meseemeth
by his countenance he should be a noble knight, and no japer; for methinketh he should be of
the Table Round. Therefore I will not spare, said Sir Frol. And then he cried and said: Sir
knight, make thee ready to joust. That needeth not, said the White Knight, for I have no lust
to joust with thee; but yet they feutred their spears, and the White Knight overthrew Sir Frol,
and then he rode his way a soft pace. Then Sir Lamorak rode after him, and prayed him to tell
him his name: For meseemeth ye should be of the fellowship of the Round Table. Upon a covenant,
said he, I will tell you my name, so that ye will not discover my name, and also that ye will
tell me yours. Then, said he, my name is Sir Lamorak de Galis. And my name is Sir Launcelot
du Lake. Then they put up their swords, and kissed heartily together, and either made great
joy of other. Sir, said Sir Lamorak, an it please you I will do you service. God defend, said
Launcelot, that any of so noble a blood as ye be should do me service. Then he said: More,
I am in a quest that I must do myself alone. Now God speed you, said Sir Lamorak, and so they
departed. Then Sir Lamorak came to Sir Frol and horsed him again. What knight is that? said
Sir Frol. Sir, he said, it is not for you to know, nor it is no point of my charge. Ye are
the more uncourteous, said Sir Frol, and therefore I will depart from you. Ye may do as ye
list, said Sir Lamorak, and yet by my company ye have saved the fairest flower of your garland;
so they departed.

THEN within two or three days Sir Lamorak found a knight at a well sleeping, and his lady sat
with him and waked. Right so came Sir Gawaine and took the knight's lady, and set her up behind
his squire. So Sir Lamorak rode after Sir Gawaine, and said: Sir Gawaine, turn again. And then
said Sir Gawaine: What will ye do with me? for I am nephew unto King Arthur. Sir, said he,
for that cause I will spare you, else that lady should abide with me, or else ye should joust
with me. Then Sir Gawaine turned him and ran to him that ought the lady, with his spear, but
the knight with pure might smote down Sir Gawaine, and took his lady with him. All this Sir
Lamorak saw, and said to himself: But I revenge my fellow he will say of me dishonour in King
Arthur's court. Then Sir Lamorak returned and proffered that knight to joust. Sir, said he,
I am ready. And there they came together with all their might, and there Sir Lamorak smote
the knight through both sides that he fell to the earth dead.

Then that lady rode to that knight's brother that hight Belliance le Orgulus, that dwelt fast
thereby, and then she told him how his brother was slain. Alas, said he, I will be revenged.
And so he horsed him, and armed him, and within a while he overtook Sir Lamorak, and bade him:
Turn and leave that lady, for thou and I must play a new play; for thou hast slain my brother
Sir Frol, that was a better knight than ever wert thou. It might well be, said Sir Lamorak,
but this day in the field I was found the better. So they rode together, and unhorsed other,
and turned their shields, and drew their swords, and fought mightily as noble knights proved,
by the space of two hours. So then Sir Belliance prayed him to tell him his name. Sir, said
he, my name is Sir Lamorak de Galis. Ah, said Sir Belliance, thou art the man in the world
that I most hate, for I slew my sons for thy sake, where I saved thy life, and now thou hast
slain my brother Sir Frol. Alas, how should I be accorded with thee; therefore defend thee,
for thou shalt die, there is none other remedy. Alas, said Sir Lamorak, full well me ought
to know you, for ye are the man that most have done for me. And therewithal Sir Lamorak kneeled
down, and besought him of grace. Arise, said Sir Belliance, or else thereas thou kneelest I
shall slay thee. That shall not need, said Sir Lamorak, for I will yield me unto you, not for
fear of you, nor for your strength, but your goodness maketh me full loath to have ado with
you; wherefore I require you for God's sake, and for the honour of knighthood, forgive me all
that I have offended unto you. Alas, said Belliance, leave thy kneeling, or else I shall slay
thee without mercy.

Then they yede again unto battle, and either wounded other, that all the ground was bloody
thereas they fought. And at the last Belliance withdrew him aback and set him down softly upon
a little hill, for he was so faint for bleeding that he might not stand. Then Sir Lamorak threw
his shield upon his back, and asked him what cheer. Well, said Sir Belliance. Ah, Sir, yet
shall I show you favour in your mal-ease. Ah, Knight Sir Belliance, said Sir Lamorak, thou
art a fool, for an I had had thee at such advantage as thou hast done me, I should slay thee;
but thy gentleness is so good and so large, that I must needs forgive thee mine evil will.
And then Sir Lamorak kneeled down, and unlaced first his umberere, and then his own, and then
either kissed other with weeping tears. Then Sir Lamorak led Sir Belliance to an abbey fast
by, and there Sir Lamorak would not depart from Belliance till he was whole. And then they
sware together that none of them should never fight against other. So Sir Lamorak departed
and went to the court of King Arthur.

Here leave we of Sir Lamorak and of Sir Tristram. And here beginneth the history of La Cote
Male Taile.

AT the court of King Arthur there came a young man and bigly made, and he was richly beseen:
and he desired to be made knight of the king, but his over-garment sat over-thwartly, howbeit
it was rich cloth of gold. What is your name? said King Arthur. Sir, said he, my name is Breunor
le Noire, and within short space ye shall know that I am of good kin. It may well be, said
Sir Kay, the Seneschal, but in mockage ye shall be called La Cote Male Taile, that is as much
to say, the evil-shapen coat It is a great thing that thou askest, said the king; and for what
cause wearest thou that rich coat? tell me, for I can well think for some cause it is. Sir,
he answered, I had a father, a noble knight, and as he rode a-hunting, upon a day it happed
him to lay him down to sleep; and there came a knight that had been long his enemy, and when
he saw he was fast asleep he all to-hew him; and this same coat had my father on the same time;
and that maketh this coat to sit so evil upon me, for the strokes be on it as I found it, and
never shall be amended for me. Thus to have my father's death in remembrance I wear this coat
till I be revenged; and because ye are called the most noblest king of the world I come to
you that ye should make me knight. Sir, said Sir Lamorak and Sir Gaheris, it were well done
to make him knight; for him beseemeth well of person and of countenance, that he shall prove
a good man, and a good knight, and a mighty; for, Sir, an ye be remembered, even such one was
Sir Launcelot du Lake when he came first into this court, and full few of us knew from whence
he came; and now is he proved the man of most worship in the world; and all your court and
all your Round Table is by Sir Launcelot worshipped and amended more than by any knight now
living. That is truth, said the king, and to-morrow at your request I shall make him knight.

So on the morrow there was an hart found, and thither rode King Arthur with a company of his
knights to slay the hart. And this young man that Sir Kay named La Cote Male Taile was there
left behind with Queen Guenever; and by sudden adventure there was an horrible lion kept in
a strong tower of stone, and it happened that he at that time brake loose, and came hurling
afore the queen and her knights. And when the queen saw the lion she cried and fled, and prayed
her knights to rescue her. And there was none of them all but twelve that abode, and all the
other fled. Then said La Cote Male Taile: Now I see well that all coward knights be not dead;
and therewithal he drew his sword and dressed him afore the lion. And that lion gaped wide
and came upon him ramping to have slain him. And he then smote him in the midst of the head
such a mighty stroke that it clave his head in sunder, and dashed to the earth. Then was it
told the queen how the young man that Sir Kay named by scorn La Cote Male Taile had slain the
lion. With that the king came home. And when the queen told him of that adventure, he was well
pleased, and said: Upon pain of mine head he shall prove a noble man and a faithful knight,
and true of his promise: then the king forthwithal made him knight. Now Sir, said this young
knight, I require you and all the knights of your court, that ye call me by none other name
but La Cote Male Taile: in so much as Sir Kay hath so named me so will I be called. I assent
me well thereto, said the king.

THEN that same day there came a damosel into the court, and she brought with her a great black
shield, with a white hand in the midst holding a sword. Other picture was there none in that
shield. When King Arthur saw her he asked her from whence she came and what she would. Sir,
she said, I have ridden long and many a day with this shield many ways, and for this cause
I am come to your court: there was a good knight that ought this shield, and this knight had
undertaken a great deed of arms to enchieve it; and so it misfortuned him another strong knight
met with him by sudden adventure, and there they fought long, and either wounded other passing
sore; and they were so weary that they left that battle even hand. So this knight that ought
this shield saw none other way but he must die; and then he commanded me to bear this shield
to the court of King Arthur, he requiring and praying some good knight to take this shield,
and that he would fulfil the quest that he was in. Now what say ye to this quest? said King
Arthur; is there any of you here that will take upon him to wield this shield? Then was there
not one that would speak one word. Then Sir Kay took the shield in his hands. Sir knight, said
the damosel, what is your name? Wit ye well, said he, my name is Sir Kay, the Seneschal, that
wide-where is known. Sir, said that damosel, lay down that shield, for wit ye well it falleth
not for you, for he must be a better knight than ye that shall wield this shield. Damosel,
said Sir Kay, wit ye well I took this shield in my hands by your leave for to behold it, not
to that intent; but go wheresomever thou wilt, for I will not go with you.

Then the damosel stood still a great while and beheld many of those knights. Then spake the
knight, La Cote Male Taile: Fair damosel, I will take the shield and that adventure upon me,
so I wist I should know whitherward my journey might be; for because I was this day made knight
I would take this adventure upon me. In childhood our horizon is limited to the narrowest sphere
about us; in youth there is already a very considerable widening of our view; in manhood it
comprises the whole range of our activity, often stretching out over a very distant sphere,-- the
care, for instance, of a State or a nation; in old age it embraces
posterity.

But even in the affairs of the intellect, limitation is necessary if we are to be happy. For
the less the will is excited, the less we suffer. We have seen that suffering is something positive,
and that happiness is only a negative condition. To limit the sphere of outward activity is to
relieve the will of external stimulus: to limit the sphere of our intellectual efforts is to relieve
the will of internal sources of excitement. This latter kind of limitation is attended by the
disadvantage that it opens the door to boredom, which is a direct
source of countless sufferings; for to banish boredom, a man will
have recourse to any means that may be handy-- dissipation, society,
extravagance, gaming, and drinking, and the like, which in their turn
bring mischief, ruin and misery in their train.

Difficiles in otio quies-- it is difficult to keep quiet if you have nothing to do. That limitation
in the sphere of outward activity is conducive, nay, even necessary to human happiness, such
as it is, may be seen in the fact that the only kind of poetry which depicts men in a happy
state of life-- Idyllic poetry, I mean,-- always aims, as an intrinsic part of its treatment,
at representing them in very simple and restricted circumstances. It is this feeling, too,
which is at the bottom of the pleasure we take in what are called
genre pictures.

Simplicity, therefore, as far as it can be attained, and even monotony, in our manner of life,
if it does not mean that we are bored, will contribute to happiness; just because, under such
circumstances, life, and consequently the burden which is the essential concomitant of life,
will be least felt. Our existence will glide on peacefully like a stream which no waves or whirlpools
disturb.

SECTION 7. Whether we are in a pleasant or a painful state depends, ultimately, upon the kind
of matter that pervades and engrosses our consciousness.

In this respect, purely intellectual occupation, for the mind that is capable of it, will,
as a rule, do much more in the way of happiness than any form of practical life, with its constant
alternations of success and failure, and all the shocks and torments it produces. But it must
be confessed that for such occupation a pre-eminent amount of intellectual capacity is necessary.
And in this connection it may be noted that, just as a life devoted to outward activity will
distract and divert a man from study, and also deprive him of that quiet concentration of mind
which is necessary for such work; so, on the other hand, a long course of thought will make him
more or less unfit for the noisy pursuits of real life. It is advisable, therefore, to suspend mental
work for a while, if circumstances happen which demand any degree of energy in affairs of a practical
nature.

SECTION 8. To live a life that shall be entirely prudent and discreet, and to draw from experience
all the instruction it contains, it is requisite to be constantly thinking back,-- to make
a kind of recapitulation of what we have done, of our impressions and sensations, to compare our
former with our present judgments-- what we set before us and struggle to achieve, with the actual
result and satisfaction we have obtained. To do this is to get a repetition of the private lessons
of experience,-- lessons which are given to every one.

Experience of the world may be looked upon as a kind of text, to which
reflection and knowledge form the commentary.

Where there is great deal of reflection and intellectual knowledge, and very little experience,
the result is like those books which have on each page two lines of text to forty lines of
commentary. A great deal of experience with little reflection and scant knowledge, gives us books
like those of the editio Bipontina [1] where there are no notes and
much that is unintelligible.

[Footnote
1: Translator's Note. A series of Greek, Latin and French classics published at Zweibräcken
in the Palatinate, from and after the year 1779. Cf. Butter, Ueber die Bipontiner und die editiones
Bipontinae.] The advice here given is on a par with a rule recommended
by Pythagoras,-- to review, every night before going to sleep, what
we have done during the day.

To live at random, in the hurly-burly of business or pleasure, without ever reflecting upon
the past,-- to go on, as it were, pulling cotton off the reel of life,-- is to have no clear idea of
what we are about; and a man who lives in this state will have chaos in his emotions and certain
confusion in his thoughts; as is soon manifest by the abrupt and fragmentary character of
his conversation, which becomes a kind of mincemeat. A man will be all the more exposed to this fate
in proportion as he lives a restless life in the world, amid a crowd of various impressions and
with a correspondingly small amount of activity on the part of his own mind. And in this connection
it will be in place to observe that, when events and circumstances which have influenced us pass
away in the course of time, we are unable to bring back and renew
the particular mood or state of feeling which they aroused in us:
but we can remember what we were led to say and do in regard to them;
and thus form, as it were, the result, expression and measure of those
events.

We should, therefore, be careful to preserve the memory of our thoughts
at important points in our life; and herein lies the great advantage
of keeping a journal. SECTION 9. To be self-sufficient, to be all
in all to oneself, to want for nothing, to be able to say omnia mea
mecum porto-- that is assuredly the chief qualification for happiness.
Hence Aristotle's remark, [Greek: hae eudaimonia ton autarchon esti]
[1]-- to be happy means to be self-sufficient-- cannot be too often
repeated.

[Footnote 1: Eudem. Eth. VII. ii. 37.] For while a man cannot reckon with certainty upon anyone
but himself, the burdens and disadvantages, the dangers and annoyances,
which arise from having to do with others, are not only countless
but unavoidable.

There is no more mistaken path to happiness than worldliness, revelry, high life: for the whole
object of it is to transform our miserable existence into a succession of joys, delights and
pleasures,-- a process which cannot fail to result in disappointment and delusion; on a par, in this respect, with
its obligato accompaniment, the interchange of lies.

[1] [Footnote 1: As our body is concealed by the clothes we wear,
so our mind is veiled in lies.

The veil is always there, and it is only through it that we can sometimes
guess at what a man really thinks; just as from his clothes we arrive
at the general shape of his body.] All society necessarily involves,
as the first condition of its existence, mutual accommodation and
restraint upon the part of its members.

This means that the larger it is, the more insipid will be its tone. A man can be himself only so long
as he is alone; and if he does not love solitude, he will not love freedom; for it is only when
he is alone that he is really free.

Constraint is always present in society, like a companion of whom there is no riddance; and in
proportion to the greatness of a man's individuality, it will be hard for him to bear the sacrifices
which all intercourse with others demands, Solitude will be welcomed or endured or avoided,
according as a man's personal value is large or small,-- the wretch
feeling, when he is alone, the whole burden of his misery; the great
intellect delighting in its greatness; and everyone, in short, being
just what he is.

Further, if a man stands high in Nature's lists, it is natural and inevitable that he should feel
solitary. It will be an advantage to him if his surroundings do not interfere with this feeling;
for if he has to see a great deal of other people who are not of
like character with himself, they will exercise a disturbing influence
upon him, adverse to his peace of mind; they will rob him, in fact,
of himself, and give him nothing to compensate for the loss.

But while Nature sets very wide differences between man and man in respect both of morality and
of intellect, society disregards and effaces them; or, rather, it sets up artificial differences
in their stead,-- gradations of rank and position, which are very often diametrically opposed
to those which Nature establishes. The result of this arrangement is to elevate those whom
Nature has placed low, and to depress the few who stand high. These latter, then, usually withdraw
from society, where, as soon as it is at all numerous, vulgarity reigns supreme. What offends a great intellect
in society is the equality of rights, leading to equality of pretensions, which everyone enjoys; while
at the same time, inequality of capacity means a corresponding disparity of social power. So-called
good society recognizes every kind of claim but that of intellect, which is a contraband article; and
people are expected to exhibit an unlimited amount of patience towards
every form of folly and stupidity, perversity and dullness; whilst
personal merit has to beg pardon, as it were, for being present, or
else conceal itself altogether.

Intellectual superiority offends by its very existence, without any desire to do so. The worst of
what is called good society is not only that it offers us the companionship of people who are unable
to win either our praise or our affection, but that it does not allow of our being that which we naturally
are; it compels us, for the sake of harmony, to shrivel up, or even alter our shape altogether.
Intellectual conversation, whether grave or humorous, is only fit
for intellectual society; it is downright abhorrent to ordinary people,
to please whom it is absolutely necessary to be commonplace and dull.

This demands an act of severe self-denial; we have to forfeit three-fourths of ourselves in order
to become like other people. No doubt their company may be set down against our loss in this respect;
but the more a man is worth, the more he will find that what he gains does not cover what he loses,
and that the balance is on the debit side of the account; for the people with whom he deals are
generally bankrupt,-- that is to say, there is nothing to be got from their society which can compensate
either for its boredom, annoyance and disagreeableness, or for the
self-denial which it renders necessary.

Accordingly, most society is so constituted as to offer a good profit to anyone who will exchange it for
solitude. Nor is this all. By way of providing a substitute for real-- I mean intellectual-- superiority,
which is seldom to be met with, and intolerable when it is found, society has capriciously adopted
a false kind of superiority, conventional in its character, and resting
upon arbitrary principles,-- a tradition, as it were, handed down in the higher
circles, and, like a password, subject to alteration; I refer to
bon-ton fashion.

Whenever this kind of superiority comes into collision with the real
kind, its weakness is manifest.

Moreover, the presence of good tone means the absence of good sense. No man can be in perfect accord
with any one but himself-- not even with a friend or the partner of his life; differences of individuality
and temperament are always bringing in some degree of discord, though it may be a very slight
one. That genuine, profound peace of mind, that perfect tranquillity of soul, which, next to
health, is the highest blessing the earth can give, is to be attained only in solitude, and,
as a permanent mood, only in complete retirement; and then, if there is anything great and rich
in the man's own self, his way of life is the happiest that may be found in this wretched world.
Let me speak plainly. However close the bond of friendship, love, marriage-- a man, ultimately,
looks to himself, to his own welfare alone; at most, to his child's too. The less necessity
there is for you to come into contact with mankind in general, in the relations whether of
business or of personal intimacy, the better off you are. Loneliness and solitude have their
evils, it is true; but if you cannot feel them all at once, you can at least see where they lie; on the
other hand, society is insidious in this respect; as in offering you what appears to be the
pastime of pleasing social intercourse, it works great and often
irreparable mischief.

The young should early be trained to bear being left alone; for it is a source of happiness and
peace of mind. It follows from this that a man is best off if he be thrown upon his own resources
and can be all in all to himself; and Cicero goes so far as to say that a man who is in this condition
cannot fail to be very happy-- nemo potest non beatissimus esse qui est totus aptus ex sese, quique in
se uno ponit omnia. [1] The more a man has in himself, the less others can be to him. The feeling
of self-sufficiency! it is that which restrains those whose personal value is in itself great
riches, from such considerable sacrifices as are demanded by intercourse
with the world, let alone, then, from actually practicing self-denial
by going out of their way to seek it.

Ordinary people are sociable and complaisant just from the very opposite
feeling;-- to bear others'company is easier for them than to bear their
own. Moreover, respect is not paid in this world to that which has real
merit; it is reserved for that which has none.

So retirement is at once a proof and a result of being distinguished by the possession of meritorious
qualities. It will therefore show real wisdom on the part of any one who is worth anything in himself,
to limit his requirements as may be necessary, in order to preserve or extend his freedom, and,--
since a man must come into some relations with his fellow-men-- to
admit them to his intimacy as little as possible.

[Footnote 1: Paradoxa Stoidorum: II.] I have said that people are rendered sociable by their ability
to endure solitude, that is to say, their own society. They become sick of themselves. It is this
vacuity of soul which drives them to intercourse with others,-- to travels in foreign countries.
Their mind is wanting in elasticity; it has no movement of its own, and so they try to give it
some,-- by drink, for instance. How much drunkenness is due to this cause alone! They are always
looking for some form of excitement, of the strongest kind they can bear-- the excitement of
being with people of like nature with themselves; and if they fail
in this, their mind sinks by its own weight, and they fall into a
grievous lethargy.

[1] Such people, it may be said, possess only a small fraction of humanity in themselves; and
it requires a great many of them put together to make up a fair amount
of it,-- to attain any degree of consciousness as men.

A man, in the full sense of the word,-- a man par excellence-- does not represent a fraction,
but a whole number: he is complete in himself. [Footnote 1: It is a well-known fact, that we can more
easily bear up under evils which fall upon a great many people besides ourselves. As boredom
seems to be an evil of this kind, people band together to offer it a common resistance. The love of
life is at bottom only the fear of death; and, in the same way, the social impulse does not rest
directly upon the love of society, but upon the fear of solitude; it is
not alone the charm of being in others'company that people seek, it is
the dreary oppression of being alone-- the monotony of their own
consciousness-- that they would avoid.

They will do anything to escape it,-- even tolerate bad companions, and put up with the feeling of
constraint which all society involves, in this case a very burdensome one. But if aversion to
such society conquers the aversion to being alone, they become accustomed to solitude and hardened
to its immediate effects. They no longer find solitude to be such a very bad thing, and settle
down comfortably to it without any hankering after society;-- and this, partly because it is only
indirectly that they need others'company, and partly because they have become accustomed to
the benefits of being alone.] Ordinary society is, in this respect,
very like the kind of music to be obtained from an orchestra composed
of Russian horns.

Each horn
has only one note; and the music is produced by each note coming
in just at the right moment.

In the monotonous sound of a single horn, you have a precise illustration of the effect of most
people's minds. How often there seems to be only one thought there! and no room for any other.
It is easy to see why people are so bored; and also why they are sociable, why they like to
go about in crowds-- why mankind is so gregarious. It is the monotony of his own nature that
makes a man find solitude intolerable. Omnis stultitia laborat fastidio sui: folly is truly its
own burden. Put a great many men together, and you may get some result-- some music from your horns!
A man of intellect is like an artist who gives a concert without any help from anyone else, playing
on a single instrument-- a piano, say, which is a little orchestra in itself. Such a man is
a little world in himself; and the effect produced by various instruments together, he produces
single-handed, in the unity of his own consciousness. Like the piano, he has no place in a symphony:
he is a soloist and performs by himself,-- in solitude, it may be;
or, if in company with other instruments, only as principal; or for
setting the tone, as in singing.

However, those who are fond of society from time to time may profit by this simile, and lay
it down as a general rule that deficiency of quality in those we meet may be to some extent compensated
by an increase in quantity. One man's company may be quite enough, if he is clever; but where you have
only ordinary people to deal with, it is advisable to have a great many of them, so that
some advantage may accrue by letting them all work together,-- on the analogy of the horns;
and may Heaven grant you patience for your task! That mental vacuity and barrenness of soul to which I
have alluded, is responsible for another misfortune. When men of the better class form a society
for promoting some noble or ideal aim, the result almost always is that the innumerable mob of humanity
comes crowding in too, as it always does everywhere, like vermin-- their object being to try and
get rid of boredom, or some other defect of their nature; and anything
that will effect that, they seize upon at once, without the slightest
discrimination.

Some of them will slip into that society, or push themselves in, and then either soon destroy
it altogether, or alter it so much that in the end it comes to have a purpose the exact opposite
of that which it had at first. This is not the only point of view from which the social impulse
may be regarded.

On cold days people manage to get some warmth by crowding together; and you can warm your mind in
the same way-- by bringing it into contact with others. But a man who has a great deal of intellectual
warmth in himself will stand in no need of such resources. I have written a little fable illustrating
this: it may be found elsewhere. [1] As a general rule, it may be said that a man's sociability
stands very nearly in inverse ratio to his intellectual value: to say that "so and so" is very
unsociable, is almost tantamount to saying that he is a man of great capacity. [Footnote 1:
Translator's Note. The passage to which Schopenhauer refers is Parerga: vol. ii.§ 413 (4th edition).
Firstly, it allows him to be with himself, and, secondly, it prevents him being with others-- an
advantage of great moment; for how much constraint, annoyance, and
even danger there is in all intercourse with the world.

Tout notre mal, says La Bruyère, vient de ne pouvoir être seul. It is
really a very risky, nay, a fatal thing, to be sociable; because it
means contact with natures, the great majority of which are bad morally,
and dull or perverse, intellectually.

To be unsociable is not to care about such people; and to have enough in oneself to dispense with
the necessity of their company is a great piece of good fortune; because almost all our sufferings
spring from having to do with other people; and that destroys the peace of mind, which, as I have
said, comes next after health in the elements of happiness. Peace of mind is impossible without a
considerable amount of solitude. The Cynics renounced all private property in order to attain the
bliss of having nothing to trouble them; and to renounce society with the same object is the wisest
thing a man can do. Bernardin de Saint Pierre has the very excellent and pertinent remark that to be
sparing in regard to food is a means of health; in regard to society, a means of tranquillity--
la diète des ailmens nous rend la santé du corps, et celle des hommes la tranquillité de l'âme.
To be soon on friendly, or even affectionate, terms with solitude
is like winning a gold mine; but this is not something which everybody
can do.

The prime reason for social intercourse is mutual need; and as soon
as that is satisfied, boredom drives people together once more.

If it were not for these two reasons, a man would probably elect to remain alone; if only because
solitude is the sole condition of life which gives full play to that feeling of exclusive
importance which every man has in his own eyes,-- as if he were the only person in the world!
a feeling which, in the throng and press of real life, soon shrivels up to nothing, getting, at
every step, a painful démenti. From this point of view it may be said that solitude is the original
and natural state of man, where, like another Adam, he is as happy as his nature will allow. But
still, had Adam no father or mother?

There is another sense in which solitude is not the natural state; for, at his entrance into the
world, a man finds himself with parents, brothers, sisters, that is to say, in society, and not
alone. Accordingly it cannot be said that the love of solitude is an original characteristic
of human nature; it is rather the result of experience and reflection, and these in their turn depend
upon the development of intellectual power, and increase with the years. Speaking generally, sociability
stands in inverse ratio with age. A little child raises a piteous cry of fright if it is left
alone for only a few minutes; and later on, to be shut up by itself
is a great punishment.

Young people soon get on very friendly terms with one another; it is only the few among them of
any nobility of mind who are glad now and then to be alone;-- but to spend the whole day thus
would be disagreeable. A grown-up man can easily do it; it is little trouble to him to be much alone,
and it becomes less and less trouble as he advances in years. An old man who has outlived all his
friends, and is either indifferent or dead to the pleasures of life, is in his proper element in solitude;
and in individual cases the special tendency to retirement and seclusion will always be in direct
proportion to intellectual capacity. For this tendency is not, as I have said, a purely natural
one; it does not come into existence as a direct need of human nature; it is rather the effect
of the experience we go through, the product of reflection upon what our needs really are;
proceeding, more especially, from the insight we attain into the wretched stuff of which most
people are made, whether you look at their morals or their intellects. The worst of it all
is that, in the individual, moral and intellectual shortcomings are closely connected and play into
each other's hands, so that all manner of disagreeable results are obtained, which make intercourse
with most people not only unpleasant but intolerable. And after she was called Beauvivante, but ever after for the more part
he was called La Cote Male Taile; and he proved a passing noble knight, and mighty; and many
worshipful deeds he did after in his life; and Sir Plenorius proved a noble knight and full
of prowess, and all the days of their life for the most part they awaited upon Sir Launcelot;
and Sir Plenorius' brethren were ever knights of King Arthur. And also, as the French book
maketh mention, Sir La Cote Male Taile avenged his father's death.

NOW leave we here Sir La Cote Male Taile, and turn we unto Sir Tristram de Liones that was
in Brittany. When La Beale Isoud understood that he was wedded she sent to him by her maiden
Bragwaine as piteous letters as could be thought and made, and her conclusion was that, an
it pleased Sir Tristram, that he would come to her court, and bring with him Isoud la Blanche
Mains, and they should be kept as well as she herself. Then Sir Tristram called unto him Sir
Kehydius, and asked him whether he would go with him into Cornwall secretly. He answered him
that he was ready at all times. And then he let ordain privily a little vessel, and therein
they went, Sir Tristram, Kehydius, Dame Bragwaine, and Gouvernail, Sir Tristram's squire. So
when they were in the sea a contrarious wind blew them on the coasts of North Wales, nigh the
Castle Perilous. Then said Sir Tristram: Here shall ye abide me these ten days, and Gouvernail,
my squire, with you. And if so be I come not again by that day take the next way into Cornwall;
for in this forest are many strange adventures, as I have heard say, and some of them I cast
me to prove or I depart. And when I may I shall hie me after you.

Then Sir Tristram and Kehydius took their horses and departed from their fellowship. And so
they rode within that forest a mile and more; and at the last Sir Tristram saw afore him a
likely knight, armed, sitting by a well, and a strong mighty horse passing nigh him tied to
an oak, and a man hoving and riding by him leading an horse laden with spears. And this knight
that sat at the well seemed by his countenance to be passing heavy. Then Sir Tristram rode
near him and said: Fair knight, why sit ye so drooping? ye seem to be a knight-errant by your
arms and harness, and therefore dress you to joust with one of us, or with both. Therewithal
that knight made no words, but took his shield and buckled it about his neck, and lightly he
took his horse and leapt upon him. And then he took a great spear of his squire, and departed
his way a furlong. Sir Kehydius asked leave of Sir Tristram to joust first. Do your best, said
Sir Tristram. So they met together, and there Sir Kehydius had a fall, and was sore wounded
on high above the paps. Then Sir Tristram said: Knight, that is well jousted, now make you
ready unto me. I am ready, said the knight. And then that knight took a greater spear in his
hand, and encountered with Sir Tristram, and there by great force that knight smote down Sir
Tristram from his horse and had a great fall. Then Sir Tristram was sore ashamed, and lightly
he avoided his horse, and put his shield afore his shoulder, and drew his sword. And then Sir
Tristram required that knight of his knighthood to alight upon foot and fight with him. I will
well, said the knight; and so he alighted upon foot, and avoided his horse, and cast his shield
upon his shoulder, and drew his sword, and there they fought a long battle together full nigh
two hours. Then Sir Tristram said: Fair knight, hold thine hand, and tell me of whence thou
art, and what is thy name. As for that, said the knight, I will be avised; but an thou wilt
tell me thy name peradventure I will tell thee mine.

NOW fair knight, he said, my name is Sir Tristram de Liones. Sir, said the other knight, and
my name is Sir Lamorak de Galis. Ah, Sir Lamorak, said Sir Tristram, well be we met, and bethink
thee now of the despite thou didst me of the sending of the horn unto King Mark's court, to
the intent to have slain or dishonoured my lady the queen, La Beale Isoud; and therefore wit
thou well, said Sir Tristram, the one of us shall die or we depart. Sir, said Sir Lamorak,
remember that we were together in the Isle of Servage, and at that time ye promised me great
friendship. Then Sir Tristram would make no longer delays, but lashed at Sir Lamorak; and thus
they fought long till either were weary of other. Then Sir Tristram said to Sir Lamorak: In
all my life met I never with such a knight that was so big and well breathed as ye be, therefore,
said Sir Tristram, it were pity that any of us both should here be mischieved. Sir said Sir
Lamorak, for your renown and name I will that ye have the worship of this battle, and therefore
I will yield me unto you. And therewith he took the point of his sword to yield him. Nay, said
Sir Tristram, ye shall not do so, for well I know your proffers, and more of your gentleness
than for any fear or dread ye have of me. And therewithal Sir Tristram proffered him his sword
and said: Sir Lamorak, as an overcome knight I yield me unto you as to a man of the most noble
prowess that ever I met withal. Nay, said Sir Lamorak, I will do you gentleness; I require
you let us be sworn together that never none of us shall after this day have ado with other.
And therewithal Sir Tristram and Sir Lamorak sware that never none of them should fight against
other, nor for weal nor for woe.

AND this meanwhile there came Sir Palomides, the good knight, following the Questing Beast
that had in shape a head like a serpent's head, and a body like a leopard, buttocks like a
lion, and footed like an hart; and in his body there was such a noise as it had been the noise
of thirty couple of hounds questing, and such a noise that beast made wheresomever he went;
and this beast ever more Sir Palomides followed, for it was called his quest. And right so
as he followed this beast it came by Sir Tristram, and soon after came Palomides. And to brief
this matter he smote down Sir Tristram and Sir Lamorak both with one spear; and so he departed
after the beast Galtisant, that was called the Questing Beast; wherefore these two knights
were passing wroth that Sir Palomides would not fight on foot with them. Here men may understand
that be of worship, that he was never formed that all times might stand, but sometime he was
put to the worse by mal-fortune; and at sometime the worse knight put the better knight to
a rebuke.

Then Sir Tristram and Sir Lamorak gat Sir Kehydius upon a shield betwixt them both, and led
him to a forester's lodge, and there they gave him in charge to keep him well, and with him
they abode three days. Then the two knights took their horses and at the cross they departed.
And then said Sir Tristram to Sir Lamorak: I require you if ye hap to meet with Sir Palomides,
say him that he shall find me at the same well where I met him, and there I, Sir Tristram,
shall prove whether he be better knight than I. And so either departed from other a sundry
way, and Sir Tristram rode nigh thereas was Sir Kehydius; and Sir Lamorak rode until he came
to a chapel, and there he put his horse unto pasture. And anon there came Sir Meliagaunce,
that was King Bagdemagus' son, and he there put his horse to pasture, and was not ware of Sir
Lamorak; and then this knight Sir Meliagaunce made his moan of the love that he had to Queen
Guenever, and there he made a woful complaint. All this heard Sir Lamorak, and on the morn
Sir Lamorak took his horse and rode unto the forest, and there he met with two knights hoving
under the wood-shaw. Fair knights, said Sir Lamorak, what do ye hoving here and watching? and
if ye be knights-errant that will joust, lo I am ready. Nay, sir knight, they said, not so,
we abide not here to joust with you, but we lie here in await of a knight that slew our brother.
What knight was that, said Sir Lamorak, that you would fain meet withal? Sir, they said, it
is Sir Launcelot that slew our brother, and if ever we may meet with him he shall not escape,
but we shall slay him. Ye take upon you a great charge, said Sir Lamorak, for Sir Launcelot
is a noble proved knight. As for that we doubt not, for there nis none of us but we are good
enough for him. I will not believe that, said Sir Lamorak, for I heard never yet of no knight
the days of my life but Sir Launcelot was too big for him.

RIGHT so as they stood talking thus Sir Lamorak was ware how Sir Launcelot came riding straight
toward them; then Sir Lamorak saluted him, and he him again. And then Sir Lamorak asked Sir
Launcelot if there were anything that he might do for him in these marches. Nay, said Sir Launcelot,
not at this time I thank you. Then either departed from other, and Sir Lamorak rode again thereas
he left the two knights, and then he found them hid in the leaved wood. Fie on you, said Sir
Lamorak, false cowards, pity and shame it is that any of you should take the high order of
knighthood. So Sir Lamorak departed from them, and within a while he met with Sir Meliagaunce.
And then Sir Lamorak asked him why he loved Queen Guenever as he did: For I was not far from
you when ye made your complaint by the chapel. Did ye so? said Sir Meliagaunce, then will I
abide by it: I love Queen Guenever, what will ye with it? I will prove and make good that she
is the fairest lady and most of beauty in the world. As to that, said Sir Lamorak, I say nay
thereto, for Queen Morgawse of Orkney, mother to Sir Gawaine, and his mother is the fairest
queen and lady that beareth the life. That is not so, said Sir Meliagaunce, and that will I
prove with my hands upon thy body. Will ye so? said Sir Lamorak, and in a better quarrel keep
I not to fight. Then they departed either from other in great wrath. And then they came riding
together as it had been thunder, and either smote other so sore that their horses fell backward
to the earth. And then they avoided their horses, and dressed their shields, and drew their
swords. And then they hurtled together as wild boars, and thus they fought a great while. For
Meliagaunce was a good man and of great might, but Sir Lamorak was hard big for him, and put
him always aback, but either had wounded other sore.

And as they stood thus fighting, by fortune came Sir Launcelot and Sir Bleoberis riding. And
then Sir Launcelot rode betwixt them, and asked them for what cause they fought so together:
And ye are both knights of King Arthur!

SIR, said Meliagaunce, I shall tell you for what cause we do this battle. Ah, Sir Lamorak,
why sayest thou so? it is not thy part to dispraise thy princess that thou art under her obeissance,
and we all. And therewith he alighted on foot, and said: For this quarrel, make thee ready,
for I will prove upon thee that Queen Guenever is the fairest lady and most of bounty in the
world. Sir, said Sir Lamorak, I am loath to have ado with you in this quarrel, for every man
thinketh his own lady fairest; and though I praise the lady that I love most ye should not
be wroth; for though my lady Queen Guenever, be fairest in your eye, wit ye well Queen Morgawse
of Orkney is fairest in mine eye, and so every knight thinketh his own lady fairest; and wit
ye well, sir, ye are the man in the world except Sir Tristram that I am most loathest to have
ado withal, but, an ye will needs fight with me I shall endure you as long as I may. Then spake
Sir Bleoberis and said: My lord Sir Launcelot, I wist you never so misadvised as ye are now,
for Sir Lamorak sayeth you but reason and knightly; for I warn you I have a lady, and methinketh
that she is the fairest lady of the world. Were this a great reason that ye should be wroth
with me for such language? And well ye wot, that Sir Lamorak is as noble a knight as I know,
and he hath ought you and us ever good will, and therefore I pray you be good friends. Then
Sir Launcelot said unto Sir Lamorak. I pray you forgive me mine evil will, and if I was misadvised
I will amend it. Sir, said Sir Lamorak, the amends is soon made betwixt you and me. And so
Sir Launcelot and Sir Bleoberis departed, and Sir Meliagaunce and Sir Lamorak took their horses,
and either departed from other.

NOW leave we of this tale, and speak we of Sir Tristram, that as he rode he met with Sir Kay,
the Seneschal; and there Sir Kay asked Sir Tristram of what country he was. He answered that
he was of the country of Cornwall. It may well be, said Sir Kay, for yet heard I never that
ever good knight came out of Cornwall. That is evil spoken, said Sir Tristram, but an it please
you to tell me your name I require you. Sir, wit ye well, said Sir Kay, that my name is Sir
Kay, the Seneschal. Is that your name? said Sir Tristram, now wit ye well that ye are named
the shamefullest knight of your tongue that now is living; howbeit ye are called a good knight,
but ye are called unfortunate, and passing overthwart of your tongue. And thus they rode together
till they came to a bridge. And there was a knight would not let them pass till one of them
jousted with him; and so that knight jousted with Sir Kay, and there that knight gave Sir Kay
a fall: his name was Sir Tor, Sir Lamorak's half-brother. And then they two rode to their lodging,
and there they found Sir Brandiles, and Sir Tor came thither anon after. And as they sat at
supper these four knights, three of them spake all shame by Cornish knights. Sir Tristram heard
all that they said and he said but little, but he thought the more, but at that time he discovered
not his name.

Upon the morn Sir Tristram took his horse and abode them upon their way. And there Sir Brandiles
proffered to joust with Sir Tristram, and Sir Tristram smote him down, horse and all, to the
earth. Then Sir Tor le Fise de Vayshoure encountered with Sir Tristram and there Sir Tristram
smote him down, and then he rode his way, and Sir Kay followed him, but he would not of his
fellowship. Then Sir Brandiles came to Sir Kay and said: I would wit fain what is that knight's
name. Come on with me, said Sir Kay, and we shall pray him to tell us his name. So they rode
together till they came nigh him, and then they were ware where he sat by a well, and had put
off his helm to drink at the well. And when he saw them come he laced on his helm lightly,
and took his horse, and proffered them to joust. Nay, said Sir Brandiles, we jousted late enough
with you, we come not in that intent. But for this we come to require you of knighthood to
tell us your name. My fair knights, sithen that is your desire, and to please you, ye shall
wit that my name is Sir Tristram de Liones, nephew unto King Mark of Cornwall. In good time,
said Sir Brandiles, and well be ye found, and wit ye well that we be right glad that we have
found you, and we be of a fellowship that would be right glad of your company. For ye are the
knight in the world that the noble fellowship of the Round Table most desireth to have the
company of. God thank them said Sir Tristram, of their great goodness, but as yet I feel well
that I am unable to be of their fellowship, for I was never yet of such deeds of worthiness
to be in the company of such a fellowship. Ah, said Sir Kay, an ye be Sir Tristram de Liones,
ye are the man called now most of prowess except Sir Launcelot du Lake; for he beareth not
the life, Christian nor heathen, that can find such another knight, to speak of his prowess,
and of his hands, and his truth withal. For yet could there never creature say of him dishonour
and make it good. Thus they talked a great while, and then they departed either from other
such ways as them seemed best.

NOW shall ye hear what was the cause that King Arthur came into the Forest Perilous, that was
in North Wales, by the means of a lady. Her name was Annowre, and this lady came to King Arthur
at Cardiff; and she by fair promise and fair behests made King Arthur to ride with her into
that Forest Perilous; and she was a great sorceress; and many days she had loved King Arthur,
and because she would have him to lie by her she came into that country. So when the king was
gone with her many of his knights followed after King Arthur when they missed him, as Sir Launcelot,
Brandiles, and many other; and when she had brought him to her tower she desired him to lie
by her; and then the king remembered him of his lady, and would not lie by her for no craft
that she could do. Then every day she would make him ride into that forest with his own knights,
to the intent to have had King Arthur slain. For when this Lady Annowre saw that she might
not have him at her will, then she laboured by false means to have destroyed King Arthur, and
slain.

Then the Lady of the Lake that was alway friendly to King Arthur, she understood by her subtle
crafts that King Arthur was like to be destroyed. And therefore this Lady of the Lake, that
hight Nimue, came into that forest to seek after Sir Launcelot du Lake or Sir Tristram for
to help King Arthur; foras that same day this Lady of the Lake knew well that King Arthur should
be slain, unless that he had help of one of these two knights. And thus she rode up and down
till she met with Sir Tristram, and anon as she saw him she knew him. O my lord Sir Tristram,
she said, well be ye met, and blessed be the time that I have met with you; for this same day,
and within these two hours, shall be done the foulest deed that ever was done in this land.
O fair damosel, said Sir Tristram, may I amend it. Come on with me, she said, and that in all
the haste ye may, for ye shall see the most worshipfullest knight of the world hard bestead.
Then said Sir Tristram: I am ready to help such a noble man. Then they rode together a great
pace, until they came to a little turret or castle; and underneath that castle they saw a knight
standing upon foot fighting with two knights; and so Sir Tristram beheld them, and at the last
the two knights smote down the one knight, and that one of them unlaced his helm to have slain
him. And the Lady Annowre gat King Arthur's sword in her hand to have stricken off his head.
And therewithal came Sir Tristram with all his might, crying: Traitress, traitress, leave that.
And anon there Sir Tristram smote the one of the knights through the body that he fell dead;
and then he rashed to the other and smote his back asunder; and in the meanwhile the Lady of
the Lake cried to King Arthur: Let not that false lady escape. Then King Arthur overtook her,
and with the same sword he smote off her head, and the Lady of the Lake took up her head and
hung it up by the hair of her saddle-bow. And then Sir Tristram horsed King Arthur and rode
forth with him, but he charged the Lady of the Lake not to discover his name as at that time.
And within a while he met with Sir Ector de Maris, and he knew not King Arthur nor Sir Tristram,
and he desired to joust with one of them. Then Sir Tristram rode unto Sir Ector, and smote
him from his horse. And when he had done so he came again to the king and said: My lord, yonder
is one of your knights, he may bare you fellowship, and another day that deed that I have done
for you I trust to God ye shall understand that I would do you service. Alas, said King Arthur,
let me wit what ye are? Not at this time, said Sir Tristram. So he departed and left King Arthur
and Sir Ector together.

AND then at a day set Sir Tristram and Sir Lamorak met at the well; and then they took Kehydius
at the forester's house, and so they rode with him to the ship where they left Dame Bragwaine
and Gouvernail, and so they sailed into Cornwall all wholly together. And by assent and information
of Dame Bragwaine when they were landed they rode unto Sir Dinas, the Seneschal, a trusty friend
of Sir Tristram's. And so Dame Bragwaine and Sir Dinas rode to the court of King Mark, and
told the queen, La Beale Isoud, that Sir Tristram was nigh her in that country. Then for very
pure joy La Beale Isoud swooned; and when she might speak she said: Gentle knight Seneschal,
help that I might speak with him, outher my heart will brast. Then Sir Dinas and Dame Bragwaine
brought Sir Tristram and Kehydius privily unto the court, unto a chamber whereas La Beale Isoud
had assigned it; and to tell the joys that were betwixt La Beale Isoud and Sir Tristram, there
is no tongue can tell it, nor heart think it, nor pen write it. And as the French book maketh
mention, at the first time that ever Sir Kehydius saw La Beale Isoud he was so enamoured upon
her that for very pure love he might never withdraw it. And at the last, as ye shall hear or
the book be ended, Sir Kehydius died for the love of La Beale Isoud. And then privily he wrote
unto her letters and ballads of the most goodliest that were used in those days. And when La
Beale Isoud understood his letters she had pity of his complaint, and unavised she wrote another
letter to comfort him withal.

And Sir Tristram was all this while in a turret at the commandment of La Beale Isoud, and when
she might she came unto Sir Tristram. So on a day King Mark played at the chess under a chamber
window; and at that time Sir Tristram and Sir Kehydius were within the chamber over King Mark,
and as it mishapped Sir Tristram found the letter that Kehydius sent unto La Beale Isoud, also
he had found the letter that she wrote unto Kehydius, and at that same time La Beale Isoud
was in the same chamber. Then Sir Tristram came unto La Beale Isoud and said: Madam, here is
a letter that was sent unto you, and here is the letter that ye sent unto him that sent you
that letter. Alas, Madam, the good love that I have loved you; and many lands and riches have
I forsaken for your love, and now ye are a traitress to me, the which doth me great pain. But
as for thee, Sir Kehydius, I brought thee out of Brittany into this country, and thy father,
King Howel, I won his lands, howbeit I wedded thy sister Isoud la Blanche Mains for the goodness
she did unto me. And yet, as I am true knight, she is a clean maiden for me; but wit thou well,
Sir Kehydius, for this falsehood and treason thou hast done me, I will revenge it upon thee.
And therewithal Sir Tristram drew out his sword and said: Sir Kehydius, keep thee, and then
La Beale Isoud swooned to the earth. And when Sir Kehydius saw Sir Tristram come upon him he
saw none other boot, but leapt out at a bay-window even over the head where sat King Mark playing
at the chess. And when the king saw one come hurling over his head he said: Fellow, what art
thou, and what is the cause thou leapest out at that window? My lord the king, said Kehydius,
it fortuned me that I was asleep in the window above your head, and as I slept I slumbered,
and so I fell down. And thus Sir Kehydius excused him.

CHAP TER XVIII. How Sir Tristram departed from Tintagil, and how he sorrowed and was so long
in a forest till he was out of his mind.

THEN Sir Tristram dread sore lest he were discovered unto the king that he was there; wherefore
he drew him to the strength of the Tower, and armed him in such armour as he had for to fight
with them that would withstand him. And so when Sir Tristram saw there was no resistance against
him he sent Gouvernail for his horse and his spear, and knightly he rode forth out of the castle
openly, that was called the Castle of Tintagil. And even at gate he met with Gingalin, Sir
Gawaine's son. And anon Sir Gingalin put his spear in his rest, and ran upon Sir Tristram and
brake his spear; and Sir Tristram at that time had but a sword, and gave him such a buffet
upon the helm that he fell down from his saddle, and his sword slid adown, and carved asunder
his horse's neck. And so Sir Tristram rode his way into the forest, and all this doing saw
King Mark. And then he sent a squire unto the hurt knight, and commanded him to come to him,
and so he did. And when King Mark wist that it was Sir Gingalin he welcomed him and gave him
an horse, and asked him what knight it was that had encountered with him. Sir, said Gingalin,
I wot not what knight he was, but well I wot that he sigheth and maketh great dole.

Then Sir Tristram within a while met with a knight of his own, that hight Sir Fergus. And when
he had met with him he made great sorrow, insomuch that he fell down off his horse in a swoon,
and in such sorrow he was in three days and three nights. Then at the last Sir Tristram sent
unto the court by Sir Fergus, for to spere what tidings. And so as he rode by the way he met
with a damosel that came from Sir Palomides, to know and seek how Sir Tristram did. Then Sir
Fergus told her how he was almost out of his mind. Alas, said the damosel, where shall I find
him? In such a place, said Sir Fergus. Then Sir Fergus found Queen Isoud sick in her bed, making
the greatest dole that ever any earthly woman made. And when the damosel found Sir Tristram
she made great dole because she might not amend him, for the more she made of him the more
was his pain. And at the last Sir Tristram took his horse and rode away from her. And then
was it three days or that she could find him, and then she brought him meat and drink, but
he would none; and then another time Sir Tristram escaped away from the damosel, and it happed
him to ride by the same castle where Sir Palomides and Sir Tristram did battle when La Beale
Isoud departed them. And there by fortune the damosel met with Sir Tristram again, making the
greatest dole that ever earthly creature made; and she yede to the lady of that castle and
told her of the misadventure of Sir Tristram. Alas, said the lady of that castle, where is
my lord, Sir Tristram? Right here by your castle, said the damosel. In good time, said the
lady, is he so nigh me; he shall have meat and drink of the best; and an harp I have of his
whereupon he taught me, for of goodly harping he beareth the prize in the world. So this lady
and damosel brought him meat and drink, but he ate little thereof. Thus he there endured a
quarter of a year. Then at the last he ran his way, and she wist not where he was become. And
when he did any shrewd deed they would beat him with rods, and so they clipped him with shears
and made him like a fool. Thus Sir Tristram endured there an half year naked, and would never
come in town nor village. The meanwhile the damosel that Sir Palomides sent to seek Sir Tristram,
she yede unto Sir Palomides and told him all the mischief that Sir Tristram endured. Alas,
said Sir Palomides, it is great pity that ever so noble a knight should be so mischieved for
the love of a lady; but nevertheless, I will go and seek him, and comfort him an I may. Then
a little before that time La Beale Isoud had commanded Sir Kehydius out of the country of Cornwall.
So Sir Kehydius departed with a dolorous heart, and by adventure he met with Sir Palomides,
and they enfellowshipped together; and either complained to other of their hot love that they
loved La Beale Isoud. Now let us, said Sir Palomides, seek Sir Tristram, that loved her as
well as we, and let us prove whether we may recover him. So they rode into that forest, and
three days and three nights they would never take their lodging, but ever sought Sir Tristram.

And upon a time, by adventure, they met with King Mark that was ridden from his men all alone.
When they saw him Sir Palomides knew him, but Sir Kehydius knew him not. Ah, false king, said
Sir Palomides, it is pity thou hast thy life, for thou art a destroyer of all worshipful knights,
and by thy mischief and thy vengeance thou hast destroyed that most noble knight, Sir Tristram
de Liones. And therefore defend thee, said Sir Palomides, for thou shalt die this day. That
were shame, said King Mark, for ye two are armed and I am unarmed. As for that, said Sir Palomides,
I shall find a remedy therefore; here is a knight with me, and thou shalt have his harness.
Nay, said King Mark, I will not have ado with you, for cause have ye none to me; for all the
misease that Sir Tristram hath was for a letter that he found; for as to me I did to him no
displeasure, and God knoweth I am full sorry for his disease and malady. So when the king had
thus excused him they were friends, and King Mark would have had them unto Tintagil; but Sir
Palomides would not, but turned unto the realm of Logris, and Sir Kehydius said that he would
go into Brittany.

Now turn we unto Sir Dagonet again, that when he and his squires were upon horseback he deemed
that the shepherds had sent that fool to array them so, because that they laughed at them,
and so they rode unto the keepers of beasts and all to-beat them. Sir Tristram saw them beat
that were wont to give him meat and drink, then he ran thither and gat Sir Dagonet by the head,
and gave him such a fall to the earth that he bruised him sore so that he lay still. And then
he wrast his sword out of his hand, and therewith he ran to one of his squires and smote off
his head, and the other fled. And so Sir Tristram took his way with that sword in his hand,
running as he had been wild wood. Then Sir Dagonet rode to King Mark and told him how he had
sped in that forest. And therefore, said Sir Dagonet, beware, King Mark, that thou come not
about that well in the forest, for there is a fool naked, and that fool and I fool met together,
and he had almost slain me. Ah, said King Mark, that is Sir Matto le Breune, that fell out
of his wit because he lost his lady; for when Sir Gaheris smote down Sir Matto and won his
lady of him, never since was he in his mind, and that was pity, for he was a good knight.

THEN Sir Andred, that was cousin unto Sir Tristram, made a lady that was his paramour to say
and to noise it that she was with Sir Tristram or ever he died. And this tale she brought unto
King Mark's court, that she buried him by a well, and that or he died he besought King Mark
to make his cousin, Sir Andred, king of the country of Liones, of the which Sir Tristram was
lord of. All this did Sir Andred because he would have had Sir Tristram's lands. And when King
Mark heard tell that Sir Tristram was dead he wept and made great dole. And so upon a day La
Beale Isoud gat a sword privily and bare it to her garden, and there she pight the sword through
a plum tree up to the hilt, so that it stuck fast, and it stood breast high. And as she would
have run upon the sword and to have slain herself all this espied King Mark, how she kneeled
down and said: Sweet Lord Jesu, have mercy upon me, for I may not live after the death of Sir
Tristram de Liones, for he was my first love and he shall be the last. And with these words
came King Mark and took her in his arms, and then he took up the sword, and bare her away with
him into a tower; and there he made her to be kept, and watched her surely, and after that
she lay long sick, nigh at the point of death.

This meanwhile ran Sir Tristram naked in the forest with the sword in his hand, and so he came
to an hermitage, and there he laid him down and slept; and in the meanwhile the hermit stole
away his sword, and laid meat down by him. Thus was he kept there ten days; and at the last
he departed and came to the herdmen again. And there was a giant in that country that hight
Tauleas, and for fear of Sir Tristram more than seven year he durst never much go at large,
but for the most part he kept him in a sure castle of his own; and so this Tauleas heard tell
that Sir Tristram was dead, by the noise of the court of King Mark. Then this Tauleas went
daily at large. And so he happed upon a day he came to the herdmen wandering and langering,
and there he set him down to rest among them. The meanwhile there came a knight of Cornwall
that led a lady with him, and his name was Sir Dinant; and when the giant saw him he went from
the herdmen and hid him under a tree, and so the knight came to that well, and there he alighted
to repose him. And as soon as he was from his horse this giant Tauleas came betwixt this knight
and his horse, and took the horse and leapt upon him. So forthwith he rode unto Sir Dinant
and took him by the collar, and pulled him afore him upon his horse, and there would have stricken
off his head. Then the herdmen said unto Sir Tristram: Help yonder knight. Help ye him, said
Sir Tristram. We dare not, said the herdmen. Then Sir Tristram was ware of the sword of the
knight thereas it lay; and so thither he ran and took up the sword and struck off Sir Tauleas'
head, and so he yede his way to the herdmen.

THEN the knight took up the giant's head and bare it with him unto King Mark, and told him
what adventure betid him in the forest, and how a naked man rescued him from the grimly giant,
Tauleas. Where had ye this adventure? said King Mark. Forsooth, said Sir Dinant, at the fair
fountain in your forest where many adventurous knights meet, and there is the mad man. Well,
said King Mark, I will see that wild man. So within a day or two King Mark commanded his knights
and his hunters that they should be ready on the morn for to hunt, and so upon the morn he
went unto that forest. And when the king came to that well he found there lying by that well
a fair naked man, and a sword by him. Then King Mark blew and straked, and therewith his knights
came to him; and then the king commanded his knights to: Take that naked man with fairness,
and bring him to my castle. Then La Beale Isoud called unto her Dame Bragwaine and said: Come
on with me, for we will go see this man that my lord brought from the forest the last day.
So they passed forth, and spered where was the sick man. And then a squire told the queen that
he was in the garden taking his rest, and reposing him against the sun. So when the queen looked
upon Sir Tristram she was not remembered of him. But ever she said unto Dame Bragwaine: Meseemeth
I should have seen him heretofore in many places. But as soon as Sir Tristram saw her he knew
her well enough. And then he turned away his visage and wept.

Then the queen had always a little brachet with her that Sir Tristram gave her the first time
that ever she came into Cornwall, and never would that brachet depart from her but if Sir Tristram
was nigh thereas was La Beale Isoud; and this brachet was sent from the king's daughter of
France unto Sir Tristram for great love. And anon as this little brachet felt a savour of Sir
Tristram, she leapt upon him and licked his lears and his ears, and then she whined and quested,
and she smelled at his feet and at his hands, and on all parts of his body that she might come
to. Ah, my lady, said Dame Bragwaine unto La Beale Isoud, alas, alas, said she, I see it is
mine own lord, Sir Tristram. And thereupon Isoud fell down in a swoon, and so lay a great while
And when she might speak she said: My lord Sir Tristram, blessed be God ye have your life,
and now I am sure ye shall be discovered by this little brachet, for she will never leave you.
And also I am sure as soon as my lord, King Mark, do know you he will banish you out of the
country of Cornwall, or else he will destroy you; for God's sake, mine own lord, grant King
Mark his will, and then draw you unto the court of King Arthur, for there are ye beloved, and
ever when I may I shall send unto you; and when ye list ye may come to me, and at all times
early and late I will be at your commandment, to live as poor a life as ever did queen or lady.
O Madam, said Sir Tristram, go from me, for mickle anger and danger have I escaped for your love.

THEN the queen departed, but the brachet would not from him; and therewithal came King Mark,
and the brachet set upon him, and bayed at them all. There withal Sir Andred spake and said:
Sir, this is Sir Tristram, I see by the brachet. Nay, said the king, I cannot suppose that.
Then the king asked him upon his faith what he was, and what was his name. So God me help,
said he, my name is Sir Tristram de Liones; now do by me what ye list. Ah, said King Mark,
me repenteth of your recovery. And then he let call his barons to judge Sir Tristram to the
death. Then many of his barons would not assent thereto, and in especial Sir Dinas, the Seneschal,
and Sir Fergus. And so by the advice of them all Sir Tristram was banished out of the country
for ten year, and thereupon he took his oath upon a book before the king and his barons. And
so he was made to depart out of the country of Cornwall; and there were many barons brought
him unto his ship, of the which some were his friends and some his foes. And in the meanwhile
there came a knight of King Arthur's, his name was Dinadan, and his coming was for to seek
after Sir Tristram; then they showed him where he was armed at all points going to the ship.
Now fair knight, said Sir Dinadan, or ye pass this court that ye will joust with me I require
thee. With a good will, said Sir Tristram, an these lords will give me leave. Then the barons
granted thereto, and so they ran together, and there Sir Tristram gave Sir Dinadan a fall.
And then he prayed Sir Tristram to give him leave to go in his fellowship. Ye shall be right
welcome, said then Sir Tristram. And tell King Mark that many noble knights of the Table Round
have spared the barons of this country for my sake. Also am I not well rewarded when I fought
with the good knight Sir Palomides and rescued Queen Isoud from him; and at that time King
Mark said afore all his barons I should have been better rewarded. And forthwithal he took
the sea. And then Sir Tristram would have jousted with Sir Bors, and Sir Bors said that he
would not joust with no Cornish knights, for they are not called men of worship; and all this
was done upon a bridge. And with this came Sir Bleoberis and Sir Driant, and Sir Bleoberis
proffered to joust with Sir Tristram, and there Sir Tristram smote down Sir Bleoberis. Then
said Sir Bors de Ganis: I wist never Cornish knight of so great valour nor so valiant as that
knight that beareth the trappings embroidered with crowns. And then Sir Tristram and Sir Dinadan
departed from them into a forest, and there met them a damosel that came for the love of Sir
Launcelot to seek after some noble knights of King Arthur's court for to rescue Sir Launcelot.
And so Sir Launcelot was ordained, for-by the treason of Queen Morgan le Fay to have slain
Sir Launcelot, and for that cause she ordained thirty knights to lie in await for Sir Launcelot,
and this damosel knew this treason. And for this cause the damosel came for to seek noble knights
to help Sir Launcelot. For that night, or the day after, Sir Launcelot should come where these
thirty knights were. And so this damosel met with Sir Bors and Sir Ector and with Sir Driant,
and there she told them all four of the treason of Morgan le Fay; and then they promised her
that they would be nigh where Sir Launcelot should meet with the thirty knights. And if so
be they set upon him we will do rescues as we can.

So the damosel departed, and by adventure the damosel met with Sir Tristram and with Sir Dinadan,
and there the damosel told them all the treason that was ordained for Sir Launcelot. Fair damosel,
said Sir Tristram, bring me to that same place where they should meet with Sir Launcelot. Then
said Sir Dinadan: What will ye do? it is not for us to fight with thirty knights, and wit you
well I will not thereof; as to match one knight two or three is enough an they be men, but
for to match fifteen knights that will I never undertake. Fie for shame, said Sir Tristram,
do but your part. Nay, said Sir Dinadan, I will not thereof but if ye will lend me your shield,
for ye bear a shield of Cornwall; and for the cowardice that is named to the knights of Cornwall,
by your shields ye be ever forborne. Nay, said Sir Tristram, I will not depart from my shield
for her sake that gave it me. But one thing, said Sir Tristram, I promise thee, Sir Dinadan,
but if thou wilt promise me to abide with me, here I shall slay thee, for I desire no more
of thee but answer one knight. And if thy heart will not serve thee, stand by and look upon
me and them. Sir, said Sir Dinadan, I promise you to look upon and to do what I may to save
myself, but I would I had not met with you.

So then anon these thirty knights came fast by these four knights, and they were ware of them,
and either of other. And so these thirty knights let them pass, for this cause, that they would
not wrath them, if case be that they had ado with Sir Launcelot; and the four knights let them
pass to this intent, that they would see and behold what they would do with Sir Launcelot.
And so the thirty knights passed on and came by Sir Tristram and by Sir Dinadan, and then Sir
Tristram cried on high: Lo, here is a knight against you for the love of Sir Launcelot. And
there he slew two with one spear and ten with his sword. And then came in Sir Dinadan and he
did passing well, and so of the thirty knights there went but ten away, and they fled. All
this battle saw Sir Bors de Ganis and his three fellows, and then they saw well it was the
same knight that jousted with them at the bridge; then they took their horses and rode unto
Sir Tristram, and praised him and thanked him of his good deeds, and they all desired Sir Tristram
to go with them to their lodging; and he said: Nay, he would not go to no lodging. Then they
all four knights prayed him to tell them his name. Fair lords, said Sir Tristram, as at this
time I will not tell you my name.

THEN Sir Tristram and Sir Dinadan rode forth their way till they came to the shepherds and
to the herdmen, and there they asked them if they knew any lodging or harbour there nigh hand.
Forsooth, sirs, said the herdmen, hereby is good lodging in a castle; but there is such a custom
that there shall no knight be harboured but if he joust with two knights, and if he be but
one knight he must joust with two. And as ye be therein soon shall ye be matched. There is
shrewd harbour, said Sir Dinadan; lodge where ye will, for I will not lodge there. Fie for
shame, said Sir Tristram, are ye not a knight of the Table Round? wherefore ye may not with
your worship refuse your lodging. Not so, said the herdmen, for an ye be beaten and have the
worse ye shall not be lodged there, and if ye beat them ye shall be well harboured. Ah, said
Sir Dinadan, they are two sure knights. Then Sir Dinadan would not lodge there in no manner
but as Sir Tristram required him of his knighthood; and so they rode thither. And to make short
tale, Sir Tristram and Sir Dinadan smote them down both, and so they entered into the castle
and had good cheer as they could think or devise.

And when they were unarmed, and thought to be merry and in good rest, there came in at the
gates Sir Palomides and Sir Gaheris, requiring to have the custom of the castle. What array
is this? said Sir Dinadan, I would have my rest. That may not be, said Sir Tristram; now must
we needs defend the custom of this castle, insomuch as we have the better of the lords of this
castle, and therefore, said Sir Tristram, needs must ye make you ready. In the devil's name,
said Sir Dinadan, came I into your company. And so they made them ready; and Sir Gaheris encountered
with Sir Tristram, and Sir Gaheris had a fall; and Sir Palomides encountered with Sir Dinadan,
and Sir Dinadan had a fall: then was it fall for fall. So then must they fight on foot. That
would not Sir Dinadan, for he was so sore bruised of the fall that Sir Palomides gave him.
Then Sir Tristram unlaced Sir Dinadan's helm, and prayed him to help him. I will not, said
Sir Dinadan, for I am sore wounded of the thirty knights that we had but late ago to do withal.
But ye fare, said Sir Dinadan unto Sir Tristram, as a madman and as a man that is out of his
mind that would cast himself away, and I may curse the time that ever I saw you, for in all
the world are not two such knights that be so wood as is Sir Launcelot and ye Sir Tristram;
for once I fell in the fellowship of Sir Launcelot as I have done now with you, and he set
me a work that a quarter of a year I kept my bed. Jesu defend me, said Sir Dinadan, from such
two knights, and specially from your fellowship. Then, said Sir Tristram, I will fight with
them both. Then Sir Tristram bade them come forth both, for I will fight with you. Then Sir
Palomides and Sir Gaheris dressed them, and smote at them both. Then Dinadan smote at Sir Gaheris
a stroke or two, and turned from him. Nay, said Sir Palomides, it is too much shame for us
two knights to fight with one. And then he did bid Sir Gaheris stand aside with that knight
that hath no list to fight. Then they rode together and fought long, and at the last Sir Tristram
doubled his strokes, and drove Sir Palomides aback more than three strides. And then by one
assent Sir Gaheris and Sir Dinadan went betwixt them, and departed them in-sunder. And then
by assent of Sir Tristram they would have lodged together. But Sir Dinadan would not lodge
in that castle. And then he cursed the time that ever he came in their fellowship, and so he
took his horse, and his harness, and departed.

Then Sir Tristram prayed the lords of that castle to lend him a man to bring him to a lodging,
and so they did, and overtook Sir Dinadan, and rode to their lodging two mile thence with a
good man in a priory, and there they were well at ease. And that same night Sir Bors and Sir
Bleoberis, and Sir Ector and Sir Driant, abode still in the same place thereas Sir Tristram
fought with the thirty knights; and there they met with Sir Launcelot the same night, and had
made promise to lodge with Sir Colgrevance the same night.

BUT anon as the noble knight, Sir Launcelot, heard of the shield of Cornwall, then wist he
well that it was Sir Tristram that fought with his enemies. And then Sir Launcelot praised
Sir Tristram, and called him the man of most worship in the world. So there was a knight in
that priory that hight Pellinore, and he desired to wit the name of Sir Tristram, but in no
wise he could not; and so Sir Tristram departed and left Sir Dinadan in the priory, for he
was so weary and so sore bruised that he might not ride. Then this knight, Sir Pellinore, said
to Sir Dinadan: Sithen that ye will not tell me that knight's name I will ride after him and
make him to tell me his name, or he shall die therefore. Beware, sir knight, said Sir Dinadan,
for an ye follow him ye shall repent it. So that knight, Sir Pellinore, rode after Sir Tristram
and required him of jousts. Then Sir Tristram smote him down and wounded him through the shoulder,
and so he passed on his way. And on the next day following Sir Tristram met with pursuivants,
and they told him that there was made a great cry of tournament between King Carados of Scotland
and the King of North Wales, and either should joust against other at the Castle of Maidens;
and these pursuivants sought all the country after the good knights, and in especial King Carados
let make seeking for Sir Launcelot du Lake, and the King of Northgalis let seek after Sir Tristram
de Liones. And at that time Sir Tristram thought to be at that jousts; and so by adventure
they met with Sir Kay, the Seneschal, and Sir Sagramore le Desirous; and Sir Kay required Sir
Tristram to joust, and Sir Tristram in a manner refused him, because he would not be hurt nor
bruised against the great jousts that should be before the Castle of Maidens, and therefore
thought to repose him and to rest him. And alway Sir Kay cried: Sir knight of Cornwall, joust
with me, or else yield thee to me as recreant. When Sir Tristram heard him say so he turned
to him, and then Sir Kay refused him and turned his back. Then Sir Tristram said: As I find
thee I shall take thee. Then Sir Kay turned with evil will, and Sir Tristram smote Sir Kay
down, and so he rode forth.

Then Sir Sagramore le Desirous rode after Sir Tristram, and made him to joust with him, and
there Sir Tristram smote down Sir Sagramore le Desirous from his horse, and rode his way; and
the same day he met with a damosel that told him that he should win great worship of a knight
adventurous that did much harm in all that country. When Sir Tristram heard her say so, he
was glad to go with her to win worship. So Sir Tristram rode with that damosel a six mile,
and then met him Sir Gawaine, and therewithal Sir Gawaine knew the damosel, that she was a
damosel of Queen Morgan le Fay. Then Sir Gawaine understood that she led that knight to some
mischief. Fair knight, said Sir Gawaine, whither ride you now with that damosel? Sir, said
Sir Tristram, I wot not whither I shall ride but as the damosel will lead me. Sir, said Sir
Gawaine, ye shall not ride with her, for she and her lady did never good, but ill. And then
Sir Gawaine pulled out his sword and said: Damosel, but if thou tell me anon for what cause
thou leadest this knight with thee thou shalt die for it right anon: I know all your lady's
treason, and yours. Mercy, Sir Gawaine, she said, and if ye will save my life I will tell you.
Say on, said Sir Gawaine, and thou shalt have thy life. Sir, she said, Queen Morgan le Fay,
my lady, hath ordained a thirty ladies to seek and espy after Sir Launcelot or Sir Tristram,
and by the trains of these ladies, who that may first meet any of these two knights they should
turn them unto Morgan le Fay's castle, saying that they should do deeds of worship; and if
any of the two knights came there, there be thirty knights lying and watching in a tower to
wait upon Sir Launcelot or upon Sir Tristram. Fie for shame, said Sir Gawaine, that ever such
false treason should be wrought or used in a queen, and a king's sister, and a king and queen's
daughter.

SIR, said Sir Gawaine, will ye stand with me, and we will see the malice of these thirty knights.
Sir, said Sir Tristram, go ye to them, an it please you, and ye shall see I will not fail you,
for it is not long ago since I and a fellow met with thirty knights of that queen's fellowship;
and God speed us so that we may win worship. So then Sir Gawaine and Sir Tristram rode toward
the castle where Morgan le Fay was, and ever Sir Gawaine deemed well that he was Sir Tristram
de Liones, because he heard that two knights had slain and beaten thirty knights. And when
they came afore the castle Sir Gawaine spake on high and said: Queen Morgan le Fay, send out
your knights that ye have laid in a watch for Sir Launcelot and for Sir Tristram. Now, said
Sir Gawaine, I know your false treason, and through all places where that I ride men shall
know of your false treason; and now let see, said Sir Gawaine, whether ye dare come out of
your castle, ye thirty knights. Then the queen spake and all the thirty knights at once, and
said: Sir Gawaine, full well wottest thou what thou dost and sayest; for by God we know thee
passing well, but all that thou speakest and dost, thou sayest it upon pride of that good knight
that is there with thee. For there be some of us that know full well the hands of that knight
over all well. And wit thou well, Sir Gawaine, it is more for his sake than for thine that
we will not come out of this castle. For wit ye well, Sir Gawaine, the knight that beareth
the arms of Cornwall, we know him and what he is.

Then Sir Gawaine and Sir Tristram departed and rode on their ways a day or two together; and
there by adventure, they met with Sir Kay and Sir Sagramore le Desirous. And then they were
glad of Sir Gawaine, and he of them, but they wist not what he was with the shield of Cornwall,
but by deeming. And thus they rode together a day or two. And then they were ware of Sir Breuse
Saunce Pite chasing a lady for to have slain her, for he had slain her paramour afore. Hold
you all still, said Sir Gawaine, and show none of you forth, and ye shall see me reward yonder
false knight; for an he espy you he is so well horsed that he will escape away. And then Sir
Gawaine rode betwixt Sir Breuse and the lady, and said: False knight, leave her, and have ado
with me. When Sir Breuse saw no more but Sir Gawaine he feutred his spear, and Sir Gawaine
against him; and there Sir Breuse overthrew Sir Gawaine, and then he rode over him, and overthwart
him twenty times to have destroyed him; and when Sir Tristram saw him do so villainous a deed,
he hurled out against him. And when Sir Breuse saw him with the shield of Cornwall he knew
him well that it was Sir Tristram, and then he fled, and Sir Tristram followed after him; and
Sir Breuse Saunce Pite was so horsed that he went his way quite, and Sir Tristram followed
him long, for he would fain have been avenged upon him. And so when he had long chased him,
he saw a fair well, and thither he rode to repose him, and tied his horse till a tree.

AND then he pulled off his helm and washed his visage and his hands, and so he fell asleep.
In the meanwhile came a damosel that had sought Sir Tristram many ways and days within this
land. And when she came to the well she looked upon him, and had forgotten him as in remembrance
of Sir Tristram, but by his horse she knew him, that hight Passe-Brewel that had been Sir Tristram's
horse many years. For when he was mad in the forest Sir Fergus kept him. So this lady, Dame
Bragwaine, abode still till he was awake. So when she saw him wake she saluted him, and he
her again, for either knew other of old acquaintance; then she told him how she had sought
him long and broad, and there she told him how she had letters from Queen La Beale Isoud. Then
anon Sir Tristram read them, and wit ye well he was glad, for therein was many a piteous complaint.
Then Sir Tristram said: Lady Bragwaine, ye shall ride with me till that tournament be done
at the Castle of Maidens, and then shall bear letters and tidings with you. And then Sir Tristram
took his horse and sought lodging, and there he met with a good ancient knight and prayed him
to lodge with him. Right so came Gouvernail unto Sir Tristram, that was glad of that lady.
So this old knight's name was Sir Pellounes, and he told of the great tournament that should
be at the Castle of Maidens. And there Sir Launcelot and thirty-two knights of his blood had
ordained shields of Cornwall. And right so there came one unto Sir Pellounes, and told him
that Sir Persides de Bloise was come home; then that knight held up his hands and thanked God
of his coming home. And there Sir Pellounes told Sir Tristram that in two years he had not
seen his son, Sir Persides. Sir, said Sir Tristram, I know your son well enough for a good knight.

So on a time Sir Tristram and Sir Persides came to their lodging both at once, and so they
unarmed them, and put upon them their clothing. And then these two knights each welcomed other.
And when Sir Persides understood that Sir Tristram was of Cornwall, he said he was once in
Cornwall: And there I jousted afore King Mark; and so it happed me at that time to overthrow
ten knights, and then came to me Sir Tristram de Liones and overthrew me, and took my lady
away from me, and that shall I never forget, but I shall remember me an ever I see my time.
Ah, said Sir Tristram, now I understand that ye hate Sir Tristram. What deem ye, ween ye that
Sir Tristram is not able to withstand your malice? Yes, said Sir Persides, I know well that
Sir Tristram is a noble knight and a much better knight than I, yet shall I not owe him my
good will. Right as they stood thus talking at a bay-window of that castle, they saw many knights
riding to and fro toward the tournament. And then was Sir Tristram ware of a likely knight
riding upon a great black horse, and a black-covered shield. What knight is that, said Sir
Tristram, with the black horse and the black shield? he seemeth a good knight. I know him well,
said Sir Persides, he is one of the best knights of the world. Then is it Sir Launcelot, said
Tristram. Nay, said Sir Persides, it is Sir Palomides, that is yet unchristened.

THEN they saw much people of the country salute Sir Palomides. And within a while after there
came a squire of the castle, that told Sir Pellounes that was lord of that castle, that a knight
with a black shield had smitten down thirteen knights. Fair brother, said Sir Tristram unto
Sir Persides, let us cast upon us cloaks, and let us go see the play. Not so, said Sir Persides,
we will not go like knaves thither, but we will ride like men and good knights to withstand
our enemies. So they armed them, and took their horses and great spears, and thither they went
thereas many knights assayed themself before the tournament. And anon Sir Palomides saw Sir
Persides, and then he sent a squire unto him and said: Go thou to the yonder knight with the
green shield and therein a lion of gold, and say him I require him to joust with me, and tell
him that my name is Sir Palomides. When Sir Persides understood that request of Sir Palomides,
he made him ready, and there anon they met together, but Sir Persides had a fall. Then Sir
Tristram dressed him to be revenged upon Sir Palomides, and that saw Sir Palomides that was
ready and so was not Sir Tristram, and took him at an advantage and smote him over his horse's
tail when he had no spear in his rest. Then stert up Sir Tristram and took his horse lightly,
and was wroth out of measure, and sore ashamed of that fall. Then Sir Tristram sent unto Sir
Palomides by Gouvernail, and prayed him to joust with him at his request. Nay, said Sir Palomides,
as at this time I will not joust with that knight, for I know him better than he weeneth. And
if he be wroth he may right it to-morn at the Castle of Maidens, where he may see me and many
other knights.

With that came Sir Dinadan, and when he saw Sir Tristram wroth he list not to jape. Lo, said
Sir Dinadan, here may a man prove, be a man never so good yet may he have a fall, and he was
never so wise but he might be overseen, and he rideth well that never fell. So Sir Tristram
was passing wroth, and said to Sir Persides and to Sir Dinadan: I will revenge me. Right so
as they stood talking there, there came by Sir Tristram a likely knight riding passing soberly
and heavily with a black shield. What knight is that? said Sir Tristram unto Sir Persides.
I know him well, said Sir Persides, for his name is Sir Briant of North Wales; so he passed
on among other knights of North Wales. And there came in Sir Launcelot du Lake with a shield
of the arms of Cornwall, and he sent a squire unto Sir Briant, and required him to joust with
him. Well, said Sir Briant, sithen I am required to joust I will do what I may; and there Sir
Launcelot smote down Sir Briant from his horse a great fall. And then Sir Tristram marvelled
what knight he was that bare the shield of Cornwall. Whatsoever he be, said Sir Dinadan, I
warrant you he is of King Ban's blood, the which be knights of the most noble prowess in the
world, for to account so many for so many. Then there came two knights of Northgalis, that
one hight Hew de la Montaine, and the other Sir Madok de la Montaine, and they challenged Sir
Launcelot foot-hot. Sir Launcelot not refusing them but made him ready, with one spear he smote
them down both over their horses' croups; and so Sir Launcelot rode his way. By the good lord,
said Sir Tristram, he is a good knight that beareth the shield of Cornwall, and meseemeth he
rideth in the best manner that ever I saw knight ride.

Then the King of Northgalis rode unto Sir Palomides and prayed him heartily for his sake to
joust with that knight that hath done us of Northgalis despite. Sir, said Sir Palomides, I
am full loath to have ado with that knight, and cause why is, for as to-morn the great tournament
shall be; and therefore I will keep myself fresh by my will. Nay, said the King of Northgalis,
I pray you require him of jousts. Sir, said Sir Palomides, I will joust at your request, and
require that knight to joust with me, and often I have seen a man have a fall at his own request.

THEN Sir Palomides sent unto Sir Launcelot a squire, and required him of jousts. Fair fellow,
said Sir Launcelot, tell me thy lord's name. Sir, said the squire, my lord's name is Sir Palomides,
the good knight. In good hour, said Sir Launcelot, for there is no knight that I saw this seven
years that I had liefer ado withal than with him. And so either knights made them ready with
two great spears. Nay, said Sir Dinadan, ye shall see that Sir Palomides will quit him right
well. It may be so, said Sir Tristram, but I undertake that knight with the shield of Cornwall
shall give him a fall. I believe it not, said Sir Dinadan. Right so they spurred their horses
and feutred their spears, and either hit other, and Sir Palomides brake a spear upon Sir Launcelot,
and he sat and moved not; but Sir Launcelot smote him so lightly that he made his horse to
avoid the saddle, and the stroke brake his shield and the hauberk, and had he not fallen he
had been slain. How now, said Sir Tristram, I wist well by the manner of their riding both
that Sir Palomides should have a fall.

Right so Sir Launcelot rode his way, and rode to a well to drink and to repose him, and they
of Northgalis espied him whither he rode; and then there followed him twelve knights for to
have mischieved him, for this cause that upon the morn at the tournament of the Castle of Maidens
that he should not win the victory. So they came upon Sir Launcelot suddenly, and unnethe he
might put upon him his helm and take his horse, but they were in hands with him; and then Sir
Launcelot gat his spear, and rode through them, and there he slew a knight and brake a spear
in his body. Then he drew his sword and smote upon the right hand and upon the left hand, so
that within a few strokes he had slain other three knights, and the remnant that abode he wounded
them sore all that did abide. Thus Sir Launcelot escaped from his enemies of North Wales, and
then Sir Launcelot rode his way till a friend, and lodged him till on the morn; for he would
not the first day have ado in the tournament because of his great labour. And on the first
day he was with King Arthur thereas he was set on high upon a scaffold to discern who was best
worthy of his deeds. So Sir Launcelot was with King Arthur, and jousted not the first day.

NOW turn we unto Sir Tristram de Liones, that commanded Gouvernail, his servant, to ordain
him a black shield with none other remembrance therein. And so Sir Persides and Sir Tristram
departed from their host Sir Pellounes, and they rode early toward the tournament, and then
they drew them to King Carados' side, of Scotland; and anon knights began the field what of
King Northgalis' part, and what of King Carados' part, and there began great party. Then there
was hurling and rashing. Right so came in Sir Persides and Sir Tristram and so they did fare
that they put the King of Northgalis aback. Then came in Sir Bleoberis de Ganis and Sir Gaheris
with them of Northgalis, and then was Sir Persides smitten down and almost slain, for more
than forty horse men went over him. For Sir Bleoberis did great deeds of arms, and Sir Gaheris
failed him not. When Sir Tristram beheld them, and saw them do such deeds of arms, he marvelled
what they were. Also Sir Tristram thought shame that Sir Persides was so done to; and then
he gat a great spear in his hand, and then he rode to Sir Gaheris and smote him down from his
horse. And then was Sir Bleoberis wroth, and gat a spear and rode against Sir Tristram in great
ire; and there Sir Tristram met with him, and smote Sir Bleoberis from his horse So then the
King with the Hundred Knights was wroth, and he horsed Sir Bleoberis and Sir Gaheris again,
and there began a great medley; and ever Sir Tristram held them passing short, and ever Sir
Bleoberis was passing busy upon Sir Tristram; and there came Sir Dinadan against Sir Tristram,
and Sir Tristram gave him such a buffet that he swooned in his saddle. Then anon Sir Dinadan
came to Sir Tristram and said: Sir, I know thee better than thou weenest; but here I promise
thee my troth I will never come against thee more, for I promise thee that sword of thine shall
never come on mine helm.

With that came Sir Bleoberis, and Sir Tristram gave him such a buffet that down he laid his
head; and then he caught him so sore by the helm that he pulled him under his horse's feet.
And then King Arthur blew to lodging. Then Sir Tristram departed to his pavilion, and Sir Dinadan
rode with him; and Sir Persides and King Arthur then, and the kings upon both parties, marvelled
what knight that was with the black shield. Many said their advice, and some knew him for Sir
Tristram, and held their peace and would nought say. So that first day King Arthur, and all
the kings and lords that were judges, gave Sir Tristram the prize; howbeit they knew him not,
but named him the Knight with the Black Shield.

THEN upon the morn Sir Palomides returned from the King of Northgalis, and rode to King Arthur's
side, where was King Carados, and the King of Ireland, and Sir Launcelot's kin, and Sir Gawaine's
kin. So Sir Palomides sent the damosel unto Sir Tristram that he sent to seek him when he was
out of his mind in the forest, and this damosel asked Sir Tristram what he was and what was
his name? As for that, said Sir Tristram, tell Sir Palomides ye shall not wit as at this time
unto the time I have broken two spears upon him. But let him wit thus much, said Sir Tristram,
that I am the same knight that he smote down in over-evening[*10] at the tournament; and tell
him plainly on what party that Sir Palomides be I will be of the contrary party. Sir, said
the damosel, ye shall understand that Sir Palomides will be on King Arthur's side, where the
most noble knights of the world be. In the name of God, said Sir Tristram, then will I be with
the King of Northgalis, because Sir Palomides will be on King Arthur's side, and else I would
not but for his sake. So when King Arthur was come they blew unto the field; and then there
began a great party, and so King Carados jousted with the King of the Hundred Knights, and
there King Carados had a fall: then was there hurling and rushing, and right so came in knights
of King Arthur's, and they bare aback the King of Northgalis' knights.

[*10] "the evening afore," W. de W.

Then Sir Tristram came in, and began so roughly and so bigly that there was none might withstand
him, and thus Sir Tristram dured long. And then Sir Tristram smote on the right hand and on
the left hand, that all lords and ladies spake of his noble deeds. But at the last Sir Tristram
should have had the worse had not the King with the Hundred Knights been. And then he came
with his fellowship and rescued Sir Tristram, and brought him away from those knights that
bare the shields of Cornwall. And then Sir Tristram saw another fellowship by themself, and
there were a forty knights together, and Sir Kay, the Seneschal, was their governor. Then Sir
Tristram rode in amongst them, and there he smote down Sir Kay from his horse; and there he
fared among those knights like a greyhound among conies.

Then Sir Launcelot found a knight that was sore wounded upon the head. Sir, said Sir Launcelot,
who wounded you so sore? Sir, he said, a knight that beareth a black shield, and I may curse
the time that ever I met with him, for he is a devil and no man. So Sir Launcelot departed
from him and thought to meet with Sir Tristram, and so he rode with his sword drawn in his
hand to seek Sir Tristram; and then he espied him how he hurled here and there, and at every
stroke Sir Tristram wellnigh smote down a knight. O mercy Jesu! said the king, sith the times
I bare arms saw I never no knight do so marvellous deeds of arms. And if I should set upon
this knight, said Sir Launcelot to himself, I did shame to myself, and therewithal Sir Launcelot
put up his sword. And then the King with the Hundred Knights and an hundred more of North Wales
set upon the twenty of Sir Launcelot's kin: and they twenty knights held them ever together
as wild swine, and none would fail other. And so when Sir Tristram beheld the noblesse or these
twenty knights he marvelled of their good deeds, for he saw by their fare and by their rule
that they had liefer die than avoid the field. Now Jesu, said Sir Tristram, well may he be
valiant and full of prowess that hath such a sort of noble knights unto his kin, and full like
is he to be a noble man that is their leader and governor. He meant it by Sir Launcelot du
Lake. So when Sir Tristram had beholden them long he thought shame to see two hundred knights
battering upon twenty knights. Then Sir Tristram rode unto the King with the Hundred Knights
and said: Sir, leave your fighting with those twenty knights, for ye win no worship of them,
ye be so many and they so few; and wit ye well they will not out of the field I see by their
cheer and countenance; and worship get ye none an ye slay them. Therefore leave your fighting
with them, for I to increase my worship I will ride to the twenty knights and help them with
all my might and power. Nay, said the King with the Hundred Knights, ye shall not do so; now
I see your courage and courtesy I will withdraw my knights for your pleasure, for evermore
a good knight will favour another, and like will draw to like.

THEN the King with the Hundred Knights withdrew his knights. And all this while, and long to-fore,
Sir Launcelot had watched upon Sir Tristram with a very purpose to have fellowshipped with
him. And then suddenly Sir Tristram, Sir Dinadan, and Gouvernail, his man, rode their way into
the forest, that no man perceived where they went. So then King Arthur blew unto lodging, and
gave the King of Northgalis the prize because Sir Tristram was upon his side. Then Sir Launcelot
rode here and there, so wood as lion that fauted his fill, because he had lost Sir Tristram,
and so he returned unto King Arthur. And then in all the field was a noise that with the wind
it might be heard two mile thence, how the lords and ladies cried: The Knight with the Black
Shield hath won the field. Alas, said King Arthur, where is that knight become? It is shame
to all those in the field so to let him escape away from you; but with gentleness and courtesy
ye might have brought him unto me to the Castle of Maidens. Then the noble King Arthur went
unto his knights and comforted them in the best wise that he could, and said: My fair fellows,
be not dismayed, howbeit ye have lost the field this day. And many were hurt and sore wounded,
and many were whole. My fellows, said King Arthur, look that ye be of good cheer, for to-morn
I will be in the field with you and revenge you of your enemies. So that night King Arthur
and his knights reposed themself.

The damosel that came from La Beale Isoud unto Sir Tristram, all the while the tournament was
a-doing she was with Queen Guenever, and ever the queen asked her for what cause she came into
that country. Madam, she answered, I come for none other cause but from my lady La Beale Isoud
to wit of your welfare. For in no wise she would not tell the queen that she came for Sir Tristram's
sake. So this lady, Dame Bragwaine, took her leave of Queen Guenever, and she rode after Sir
Tristram. And as she rode through the forest she heard a great cry; then she commanded her
squire to go into the forest to wit what was that noise. And so he came to a well, and there
he found a knight bounden till a tree crying as he had been wood, and his horse and his harness
standing by him. And when he espied that squire, therewith he abraid and brake himself loose,
and took his sword in his hand, and ran to have slain the squire. Then he took his horse and
fled all that ever he might unto Dame Bragwaine, and told her of his adventure. Then she rode
unto Sir Tristram's pavilion, and told Sir Tristram what adventure she had found in the forest.
Alas, said Sir Tristram, upon my head there is some good knight at mischief.

Then Sir Tristram took his horse and his sword and rode thither, and there he heard how the
knight complained unto himself and said: I, woful knight Sir Palomides, what misadventure befalleth
me, that thus am defoiled with falsehood and treason, through Sir Bors and Sir Ector. Alas,
he said, why live I so long! And then he gat his sword in his hands, and made many strange
signs and tokens; and so through his raging he threw his sword into that fountain. Then Sir
Palomides wailed and wrang his hands. And at the last for pure sorrow he ran into that fountain,
over his belly, and sought after his sword. Then Sir Tristram saw that, and ran upon Sir Palomides,
and held him in his arms fast. What art thou, said Palomides, that holdeth me so? I am a man
of this forest that would thee none harm. Alas, said Sir Palomides, I may never win worship
where Sir Tristram is; for ever where he is an I be there, then get I no worship; and if he
be away for the most part I have the gree, unless that Sir Launcelot be there or Sir Lamorak.
Then Sir Palomides said: Once in Ireland Sir Tristram put me to the worse, and another time
in Cornwall, and in other places in this land. What would ye do, said Sir Tristram, an ye had
Sir Tristram? I would fight with him, said Sir Palomides, and ease my heart upon him; and yet,
to say thee sooth, Sir Tristram is the gentlest knight in this world living. What will ye do,
said Sir Tristram, will ye go with me to your lodging? Nay, said he, I will go to the King
with the Hundred Knights, for he rescued me from Sir Bors de Ganis and Sir Ector and else had
I been slain traitorly. Sir Tristram said him such kind words that Sir Palomides went with
him to his lodging. Then Gouvernail went to-fore, and charged Dame Bragwaine to go out of the
way to her lodging And bid ye Sir Persides that he make him no quarrels. And so they rode together
till they came to Sir Tristram's pavilion, and there Sir Palomides had all the cheer that might
be had all that night. But in no wise Sir Palomides might not know what was Sir Tristram; and
so after supper they yede to rest, and Sir Tristram for great travail slept till it was day.
And Sir Palomides might not sleep for anguish; and in the dawning of the day he took his horse
privily, and rode his way unto Sir Gaheris and unto Sir Sagramore le Desirous, where they were
in their pavilions; for they three were fellows at the beginning of the tournament. And then
upon the morn the king blew unto the tournament upon the third day.

SO the King of Northgalis and the King with the Hundred Knights, they two encountered with
King Carados and with the King of Ireland; and there the King with the Hundred Knights smote
down King Carados, and the King of Northgalis smote down the King of Ireland. With that came
in Sir Palomides, and when he came he made great work, for by his indented shield he was well
known. So came in King Arthur, and did great deeds of arms together, and put the King of Northgalis
and the King with the Hundred Knights to the worse. With this came in Sir Tristram with his
black shield, and anon he jousted with Sir Palomides, and there by fine force Sir Tristram
smote Sir Palomides over his horse's croup. Then King Arthur cried: Knight with the Black Shield,
make thee ready to me, and in the same wise Sir Tristram smote King Arthur. And then by force
of King Arthur's knights the King and Sir Palomides were horsed again. Then King Arthur with
a great eager heart he gat a spear in his hand, and there upon the one side he smote Sir Tristram
over his horse. Then foot-hot Sir Palomides came upon Sir Tristram, as he was upon foot, to
have overridden him. Then Sir Tristram was ware of him, and there he stooped aside, and with
great ire he gat him by the arm, and pulled him down from his horse. Then Sir Palomides lightly
arose, and then they dashed together mightily with their swords; and many kings, queens, and
lords, stood and beheld them. And at the last Sir Tristram smote Sir Palomides upon the helm
three mighty strokes, and at every stroke that he gave him he said: This for Sir Tristram's
sake. With that Sir Palomides fell to the earth grovelling.

Then came the King with the Hundred Knights, and brought Sir Tristram an horse, and so was
he horsed again. By then was Sir Palomides horsed, and with great ire he jousted upon Sir Tristram
with his spear as it was in the rest, and gave him a great dash with his sword. Then Sir Tristram
avoided his spear, and gat him by the neck with his both hands, and pulled him clean out of
his saddle, and so he bare him afore him the length of ten spears, and then in the presence
of them all he let him fall at his adventure. Then Sir Tristram was ware of King Arthur with
a naked sword in his hand, and with his spear Sir Tristram ran upon King Arthur; and then King
Arthur boldly abode him and with his sword he smote a-two his spear, and therewithal Sir Tristram
stonied; and so King Arthur gave him three or four strokes or he might get out his sword, and
at the last Sir Tristram drew his sword and [either] assailed other passing hard. With that
the great press departed [them]. Then Sir Tristram rode here and there and did his great pain,
that eleven of the good knights of the blood of King Ban, that was of Sir Launcelot's kin,
that day Sir Tristram smote down; that all the estates marvelled of his great deeds and all
cried upon the Knight with the Black Shield.

THEN this cry was so large that Sir Launcelot heard it. And then he gat a great spear in his
hand and came towards the cry. Then Sir Launcelot cried: The Knight with the Black Shield,
make thee ready to joust with me. When Sir Tristram heard him say so he gat his spear in his
hand, and either abashed down their heads, and came together as thunder; and Sir Tristram's
spear brake in pieces, and Sir Launcelot by malfortune struck Sir Tristram on the side a deep
wound nigh to the death; but yet Sir Tristram avoided not his saddle, and so the spear brake.
Therewithal Sir Tristram that was wounded gat out his sword, and he rushed to Sir Launcelot,
and gave him three great strokes upon the helm that the fire sprang thereout, and Sir Launcelot
abashed his head lowly toward his saddle-bow. And therewithal Sir Tristram departed from the
field, for he felt him so wounded that he weened he should have died; and Sir Dinadan espied
him and followed him into the forest. Then Sir Launcelot abode and did many marvellous deeds.

So when Sir Tristram was departed by the forest's side he alighted, and unlaced his harness
and freshed his wound; then weened Sir Dinadan that he should have died. Nay, nay, said Sir
Tristram, Dinadan never dread thee, for I am heart-whole, and of this wound I shall soon be
whole, by the mercy of God. By that Sir Dinadan was ware where came Palomides riding straight
upon them. And then Sir Tristram was ware that Sir Palomides came to have destroyed him. And
so Sir Dinadan gave him warning, and said: Sir Tristram, my lord, ye are so sore wounded that
ye may not have ado with him, therefore I will ride against him and do to him what I may, and
if I be slain ye may pray for my soul; and in the meanwhile ye may withdraw you and go into
the castle, or in the forest, that he shall not meet with you. Sir Tristram smiled and said:
I thank you, Sir Dinadan, of your good will, but ye shall wit that I am able to handle him.
And then anon hastily he armed him, and took his horse, and a great spear in his hand, and
said to Sir Dinadan: Adieu; and rode toward Sir Palomides a soft pace. Then when Sir Palomides
saw that, he made countenance to amend his horse, but he did it for this cause, for he abode
Sir Gaheris that came after him. And when he was come he rode toward Sir Tristram. Then Sir
Tristram sent unto Sir Palomides, and required him to joust with him; and if he smote down
Sir Palomides he would do no more to him; and if it so happened that Sir Palomides smote down
Sir Tristram, he bade him do his utterance. So they were accorded. Then they met together,
and Sir Tristram smote down Sir Palomides that he had a grievous fall, so that he lay still
as he had been dead. And then Sir Tristram ran upon Sir Gaheris, and he would not have jousted;
but whether he would or not Sir Tristram smote him over his horse's croup, that he lay still
as though he had been dead. And then Sir Tristram rode his way and left Sir Persides' squire
within the pavilions, and Sir Tristram and Sir Dinadan rode to an old knight's place to lodge
them. And that old knight had five sons at the tournament, for whom he prayed God heartily
for their coming home. And so, as the French book saith, they came home all five well beaten.

And when Sir Tristram departed into the forest Sir Launcelot held alway the stour like hard,
as a man araged that took no heed to himself, and wit ye well there was many a noble knight
against him. And when King Arthur saw Sir Launcelot do so marvellous deeds of arms he then
armed him, and took his horse and his armour, and rode into the field to help Sir Launcelot;
and so many knights came in with King Arthur. And to make short tale in conclusion, the King
of Northgalis and the King of the Hundred Knights were put to the worse; and because Sir Launcelot
abode and was the last in the field the prize was given him. But Sir Launcelot would neither
for king, queen, nor knight, have the prize, but where the cry was cried through the field:
Sir Launcelot, Sir Launcelot hath won the field this day, Sir Launcelot let make another cry
contrary: Sir Tristram hath won the field, for he began first, and last he hath endured, and
so hath he done the first day, the second, and the third day.

THEN all the estates and degrees high and low said of Sir Launcelot great worship, for the
honour that he did unto Sir Tristram; and for that honour doing to Sir Tristram he was at that
time more praised and renowned than an he had overthrown five hundred knights; and all the
people wholly for this gentleness, first the estates both high and low, and after the commonalty
cried at once: Sir Launcelot hath won the field whosoever say nay. Then was Sir Launcelot wroth
and ashamed, and so therewithal he rode to King Arthur. Alas, said the king, we are all dismayed
that Sir Tristram is thus departed from us. By God, said King Arthur, he is one of the noblest
knights that ever I saw hold spear or sword in hand, and the most courteoust knight in his
fighting; for full hard I saw him, said King Arthur, when he smote Sir Palomides upon the helm
thrice, that he abashed his helm with his strokes, and also he said: Here is a stroke for Sir
Tristram, and thus thrice he said. Then King Arthur, Sir Launcelot, and Sir Dodinas le Savage
took their horses to seek Sir Tristram, and by the means of Sir Persides he had told King Arthur
where Sir Tristram was in his pavilion. But when they came there, Sir Tristram and Sir Dinadan
were gone.

Then King Arthur and Sir Launcelot were heavy, and returned again to the Castle of Maidens
making great dole for the hurt of Sir Tristram, and his sudden departing. So God me help, said
King Arthur, I am more heavy that I cannot meet with him than for all the hurts that all my
knights have had at the tournament. Right so came Sir Gaheris and told King Arthur how Sir
Tristram had smitten down Sir Palomides, and it was at Sir Palomides' own request. Alas, said
King Arthur, that was great dishonour to Sir Palomides, inasmuch as Sir Tristram was sore wounded,
and now may we all, kings, and knights, and men of worship, say that Sir Tristram may be called
a noble knight, and one of the best knights that ever I saw the days of my life. For I will
that ye all, kings and knights, know, said King Arthur, that I never saw knight do so marvellously
as he hath done these three days; for he was the first that began and that longest held on,
save this last day. And though he was hurt, it was a manly adventure of two noble knights,
and when two noble men encounter needs must the one have the worse, like as God will suffer
at that time. As for me, said Sir Launcelot, for all the lands that ever my father left me
I would not have hurt Sir Tristram an I had known him at that time; that I hurt him was for
I saw not his shield. For an I had seen his black shield, I would not have meddled with him
for many causes; for late he did as much for me as ever did knight, and that is well known
that he had ado with thirty knights, and no help save Sir Dinadan. And one thing shall I promise,
said Sir Launcelot, Sir Palomides shall repent it as in his unkindly dealing for to follow
that noble knight that I by mishap hurted thus. Sir Launcelot said all the worship that might
be said by Sir Tristram. Then King Arthur made a great feast to all that would come. And thus
we let pass King Arthur, and a little we will turn unto Sir Palomides, that after he had a
fall of Sir Tristram, he was nigh-hand araged out of his wit for despite of Sir Tristram. And
so he followed him by adventure. And as he came by a river, in his woodness he would have made
his horse to have leapt over; and the horse failed footing and fell in the river, wherefore
Sir Palomides was adread lest he should have been drowned; and then he avoided his horse, and
swam to the land, and let his horse go down by adventure.

AND when he came to the land he took off his harness, and sat roaring and crying as a man out
of his mind. Right so came a damosel even by Sir Palomides, that was sent from Sir Gawaine
and his brother unto Sir Mordred, that lay sick in the same place with that old knight where
Sir Tristram was. For, as the French book saith, Sir Persides hurt so Sir Mordred a ten days
afore; and had it hot been for the love of Sir Gawaine and his brother, Sir Persides had slain
Sir Mordred. And so this damosel came by Sir Palomides, and she and he had language together,
the which pleased neither of them; and so the damosel rode her ways till she came to the old
knight's place, and there she told that old knight how she met with the woodest knight by adventure
that ever she met withal. What bare he in his shield? said Sir Tristram. It was indented with
white and black, said the damosel. Ah, said Sir Tristram, that was Sir Palomides, the good
knight. For well I know him, said Sir Tristram, for one of the best knights living in this
realm. Then that old knight took a little hackney, and rode for Sir Palomides, and brought
him unto his own manor; and full well knew Sir Tristram Sir Palomides, but he said but little,
for at that time Sir Tristram was walking upon his feet, and well amended of his hurts; and
always when Sir Palomides saw Sir Tristram he would behold him full marvellously, and ever
him seemed that he had seen him. Then would he say unto Sir Dinadan: An ever I may meet with
Sir Tristram he shall not escape mine hands. I marvel, said Sir Dinadan, that ye boast behind
Sir Tristram, for it is but late that he was in your hands, and ye in his hands; why would
ye not hold him when ye had him? for I saw myself twice or thrice that ye gat but little worship
of Sir Tristram. Then was Sir Palomides ashamed. So leave we them a little while in the old
castle with the old knight Sir Darras.

Now shall we speak of King Arthur, that said to Sir Launcelot: Had not ye been we had not lost
Sir Tristram, for he was here daily unto the time ye met with him, and in an evil time, said
Arthur, ye encountered with him. My lord Arthur, said Launcelot, ye put upon me that I should
be cause of his departition; God knoweth it was against my will. But when men be hot in deeds
of arms oft they hurt their friends as well as their foes. And my lord, said Sir Launcelot,
ye shall understand that Sir Tristram is a man that I am loath to offend, for he hath done
for me more than ever I did for him as yet. But then Sir Launcelot made bring forth a book:
and then Sir Launcelot said: Here we are ten knights that will swear upon a book never to rest
one night where we rest another this twelvemonth until that we find Sir Tristram. And as for
me, said Sir Launcelot, I promise you upon this book that an I may meet with him, either with
fairness or foulness I shall bring him to this court, or else I shall die therefore. So these
ten noble knights departed from the court of King Arthur, and so they rode upon their quest
together until they came to a cross where departed four ways, and there departed the fellowship
in four to seek Sir Tristram.

And as Sir Launcelot rode by adventure he met with Dame Bragwaine that was sent into that country
to seek Sir Tristram, and she fled as fast as her palfrey might go. So Sir Launcelot met with
her and asked her why she fled. Ah, fair knight, said Dame Bragwaine, I flee for dread of my
life, for here followeth me Sir Breuse Saunce Pite to slay me. Hold you nigh me, said Sir Launcelot.
Then when Sir Launcelot saw Sir Breuse Saunce Pite, Sir Launcelot cried unto him, and said:
False knight destroyer of ladies and damosels, now thy last days be come. When Sir Breuse Saunce
Pite saw Sir Launcelot's shield he knew it well, for at that time he bare not the arms of Cornwall,
but he bare his own shield. And then Sir Breuse fled, and Sir Launcelot followed after him.
But Sir Breuse was so well horsed that when him list to flee he might well flee, and also abide
when him list. And then Sir Launcelot returned unto Dame Bragwaine, and she thanked him of
his great labour.

NOW will we speak of Sir Lucan the butler, that by fortune he came riding to the same place
thereas was Sir Tristram, and in he came in none other intent but to ask harbour. Then the
porter asked what was his name. Tell your lord that my name is Sir Lucan, the butler, a Knight
of the Round Table. So the porter went unto Sir Darras, lord of the place, and told him who
was there to ask harbour. Nay, nay, said Sir Daname, that was nephew to Sir Darras, say him
that he shall not be lodged here, but let him wit that I, Sir Daname, will meet with him anon,
and bid him make him ready. So Sir Daname came forth on horseback, and there they met together
with spears, and Sir Lucan smote down Sir Daname over his horse's croup, and then he fled into
that place, and Sir Lucan rode after him, and asked after him many times.

Then Sir Dinadan said to Sir Tristram: It is shame to see the lord's cousin of this place defoiled.
Abide, said Sir Tristram, and I shall redress it. And in the meanwhile Sir Dinadan was on horseback,
and he jousted with Lucan the butler, and there Sir Lucan smote Dinadan through the thick of
the thigh, and so he rode his way; and Sir Tristram was wroth that Sir Dinadan was hurt, and
followed after, and thought to avenge him; and within a while he overtook Sir Lucan, and bade
him turn; and so they met together so that Sir Tristram hurt Sir Lucan passing sore and gave
him a fall. With that came Sir Uwaine, a gentle knight, and when he saw Sir Lucan so hurt he
called Sir Tristram to joust with him. Fair knight, said Sir Tristram, tell me your name I
require you. Sir knight, wit ye well my name is Sir Uwaine le Fise de Roy Ureine. Ah, said
Sir Tristram, by my will I would not have ado with you at no time. Ye shall not so, said Sir
Uwaine, but ye shall have ado with me. And then Sir Tristram saw none other bote, but rode
against him, and overthrew Sir Uwaine and hurt him in the side, and so he departed unto his
lodging again. And when Sir Dinadan understood that Sir Tristram had hurt Sir Lucan he would
have ridden after Sir Lucan for to have slain him, but Sir Tristram would not suffer him. Then
Sir Uwaine let ordain an horse litter, and brought Sir Lucan to the abbey of Ganis, and the
castle thereby hight the Castle of Ganis, of the which Sir Bleoberis was lord. And at that
castle Sir Launcelot promised all his fellows to meet in the quest of Sir Tristram.

So when Sir Tristram was come to his lodging there came a damosel that told Sir Darras that
three of his sons were slain at that tournament, and two grievously wounded that they were
never like to help themself. And all this was done by a noble knight that bare the black shield,
and that was he that bare the prize. Then came there one and told Sir Darras that the same
knight was within, him that bare the black shield. Then Sir Darras yede unto Sir Tristram's
chamber, and there he found his shield and showed it to the damosel. Ah sir, said the damosel,
that same is he that slew your three sons. Then without any tarrying Sir Darras put Sir Tristram,
and Sir Palomides, and Sir Dinadan, within a strong prison, and there Sir Tristram was like
to have died of great sickness; and every day Sir Palomides would reprove Sir Tristram of old
hate betwixt them. And ever Sir Tristram spake fair and said little. But when Sir Palomides
saw the falling of sickness of Sir Tristram, then was he heavy for him, and comforted him in
all the best wise he could. And as the French book saith, there came forty knights to Sir Darras
that were of his own kin, and they would have slain Sir Tristram and his two fellows, but Sir
Darras would not suffer that, but kept them in prison, and meat and drink they had. So Sir
Tristram endured there great pain, for sickness had undertaken him, and that is the greatest
pain a prisoner may have. For all the while a prisoner may have his health of body he may endure
under the mercy of God and in hope of good deliverance; but when sickness toucheth a prisoner's
body, then may a prisoner say all wealth is him bereft, and then he hath cause to wail and
to weep. Right so did Sir Tristram when sickness had undertaken him, for then he took such
sorrow that he had almost slain himself.

NOW will we speak, and leave Sir Tristram, Sir Palomides, and Sir Dinadan in prison, and speak
we of other knights that sought after Sir Tristram many divers parts of this land. And some
yede into Cornwall; and by adventure Sir Gaheris, nephew unto King Arthur, came unto King Mark,
and there he was well received and sat at King Mark's own table and ate of his own mess. Then
King Mark asked Sir Gaheris what tidings there were in the realm of Logris. Sir, said Sir Gaheris,
the king reigneth as a noble knight; and now but late there was a great jousts and tournament
as ever I saw any in the realm of Logris, and the most noble knights were at that jousts. But
there was one knight that did marvellously three days, and he bare a black shield, and of all
knights that ever I saw he proved the best knight. Then, said King Mark, that was Sir Launcelot,
or Sir Palomides the paynim. Not so, said Sir Gheris, for both Sir Launcelot and Sir Palomides
were on the contrary party against the Knight with the Black Shield. Then was it Sir Tristram,
said the king. Yea, said Sir Gaheris. And therewithal the king smote down his head, and in
his heart he feared sore that Sir Tristram should get him such worship in the realm of Logris
wherethrough that he himself should not be able to withstand him. Thus Sir Gaheris had great
cheer with King Mark, and with Queen La Beale Isoud, the which was glad of Sir Gaheris' words;
for well she wist by his deeds and manners that it was Sir Tristram. And then the king made
a feast royal, and to that feast came Sir Uwaine le Fise de Roy Ureine, and some called him
Uwaine le Blanchemains. And this Sir Uwaine challenged all the knights of Cornwall. Then was
the king wood wroth that he had no knights to answer him. Then Sir Andred, nephew unto King
Mark, leapt up and said: I will encounter with Sir Uwaine. Then he yede and armed him and horsed
him in the best manner. And there Sir Uwaine met with Sir Andred, and smote him down that he
swooned on the earth. Then was King Mark sorry and wroth out of measure that he had no knight
to revenge his nephew, Sir Andred.

So the king called unto him Sir Dinas, the Seneschal, and prayed him for his sake to take upon
him to joust with Sir Uwaine. Sir, said Sir Dinas, I am full loath to have ado with any knight
of the Round Table. Yet, said the king, for my love take upon thee to joust. So Sir Dinas made
him ready, and anon they encountered together with great spears, but Sir Dinas was overthrown,
horse and man, a great fall. Who was wroth but King Mark! Alas, he said, have I no knight that
will encounter with yonder knight? Sir, said Sir Gaheris, for your sake I will joust. So Sir
Gaheris made him ready, and when he was armed he rode into the field. And when Sir Uwaine saw
Sir Gaheris' shield he rode to him and said: Sir, ye do not your part. For, sir, the first
time ye were made Knight of the Round Table ye sware that ye should not have ado with your
fellowship wittingly. And pardie, Sir Gaheris, ye knew me well enough by my shield, and so
do I know you by your shield, and though ye would break your oath I would not break mine; for
there is not one here, nor ye, that shall think I am afeard of you, but I durst right well
have ado with you, and yet we be sisters' sons. Then was Sir Gaheris ashamed, and so therewithal
every knight went their way, and Sir Uwaine rode into the country.

Then King Mark armed him, and took his horse and his spear, with a squire with him. And then
he rode afore Sir Uwaine, and suddenly at a gap he ran upon him as he that was not ware of
him, and there he smote him almost through the body, and there left him. So within a while
there came Sir Kay and found Sir Uwaine, and asked him how he was hurt. I wot not, said Sir
Uwaine, why nor wherefore, but by treason I am sure I gat this hurt; for here came a knight
suddenly upon me or that I was ware, and suddenly hurt me. Then there was come Sir Andred to
seek King Mark. Thou traitor knight, said Sir Kay, an I wist it were thou that thus traitorly
hast hurt this noble knight thou shouldst never pass my hands. Sir, said Sir Andred, I did
never hurt him, and that I will report me to himself. Fie on you false knight, said Sir Kay,
for ye of Cornwall are nought worth. So Sir Kay made carry Sir Uwaine to the Abbey of the Black
Cross, and there he was healed. And then Sir Gaheris took his leave of King Mark, but or he
departed he said: Sir king, ye did a foul shame unto you and your court, when ye banished Sir
Tristram out of this country, for ye needed not to have doubted no knight an he had been here.
And so he departed.

THEN there came Sir Kay, the Seneschal, unto King Mark, and there he had good cheer showing
outward. Now, fair lords, said he, will ye prove any adventure in the forest of Morris, in
the which I know well is as hard an adventure as I know any. Sir, said Sir Kay, I will prove
it. And Sir Gaheris said he would be avised for King Mark was ever full of treason: and therewithal
Sir Gaheris departed and rode his way. And by the same way that Sir Kay should ride he laid
him down to rest, charging his squire to wait upon Sir Kay; And warn me when he cometh. So
within a while Sir Kay came riding that way, and then Sir Gaheris took his horse and met him,
and said: Sir Kay, ye are not wise to ride at the request of King Mark, for he dealeth all
with treason. Then said Sir Kay: I require you let us prove this adventure. I shall not fail
you, said Sir Gaheris. And so they rode that time till a lake that was that time called the
Perilous Lake, and there they abode under the shaw of the wood.

The meanwhile King Mark within the castle of Tintagil avoided all his barons, and all other
save such as were privy with him were avoided out of his chamber. And then he let call his
nephew Sir Andred, and bade arm him and horse him lightly; and by that time it was midnight.
And so King Mark was armed in black, horse and all; and so at a privy postern they two issued
out with their varlets with them, and rode till they came to that lake. Then Sir Kay espied
them first, and gat his spear, and proffered to joust. And King Mark rode against him, and
smote each other full hard, for the moon shone as the bright day. And there at that jousts
Sir Kay's horse fell down, for his horse was not so big as the king's horse, and Sir Kay's
horse bruised him full sore. Then Sir Gaheris was wroth that Sir Kay had a fall. Then he cried:
Knight, sit thou fast in thy saddle, for I will revenge my fellow. Then King Mark was afeard
of Sir Gaheris, and so with evil will King Mark rode against him, and Sir Gaheris gave him
such a stroke that he fell down. So then forthwithal Sir Gaheris ran unto Sir Andred and smote
him from his horse quite, that his helm smote in the earth, and nigh had broken his neck. And
therewithal Sir Gaheris alighted, and gat up Sir Kay. And then they yode both on foot to them,
and bade them yield them, and tell their names outher they should die. Then with great pain
Sir Andred spake first, and said: It is King Mark of Cornwall, therefore be ye ware what ye
do, and I am Sir Andred, his cousin. Fie on you both, said Sir Gaheris, for a false traitor,
and false treason hast thou wrought and he both, under the feigned cheer that ye made us! it
were pity, said Sir Gaheris, that thou shouldst live any longer. Save my life, said King Mark,
and I will make amends; and consider that I am a king anointed. It were the more shame, said
Sir Gaheris, to save thy life; thou art a king anointed with cream, and therefore thou shouldst
hold with all men of worship; and therefore thou art worthy to die. With that he lashed at
King Mark without saying any more, and covered him with his shield and defended him as he might.
And then Sir Kay lashed at Sir Andred, and therewithal King Mark yielded him unto Sir Gaheris.
And then he kneeled adown, and made his oath upon the cross of the sword, that never while
he lived he would be against errant-knights. And also he sware to be good friend unto Sir Tristram
if ever he came into Cornwall.

By then Sir Andred was on the earth, and Sir Kay would have slain him. Let be, said Sir Gaheris,
slay him not I pray you. It were pity, said Sir Kay, that he should live any longer, for this
is nigh cousin unto Sir Tristram, and ever he hath been a traitor unto him, and by him he was
exiled out of Cornwall, and therefore I will slay him, said Sir Kay. Ye shall not, said Sir
Gaheris; sithen I have given the king his life, I pray you give him his life. And therewithal
Sir Kay let him go. And so Sir Kay and Sir Gaheris rode their way unto Dinas, the Seneschal,
for because they heard say that he loved well Sir Tristram. So they reposed them there, and
soon after they rode unto the realm of Logris. And so within a little while they met with Sir
Launcelot that always had Dame Bragwaine with him, to that intent he weened to have met the
sooner with Sir Tristram; and Sir Launcelot asked what tidings in Cornwall, and whether they
heard of Sir Tristram or not. Sir Kay and Sir Gaheris answered and said, that they heard not
of him. Then they told Sir Launcelot word by word of their adventure. Then Sir Launcelot smiled
and said: Hard it is to take out of the flesh that is bred in the bone; and so made them merry
together.

NOW leave we off this tale, and speak we of sir Dinas that had within the castle a paramour,
and she loved another knight better than him. And so when sir Dinas went out a-hunting she
slipped down by a towel, and took with her two brachets, and so she yede to the knight that
she loved, and he her again. And when sir Dinas came home and missed his paramour and his brachets,
then was he the more wrother for his brachets than for the lady. So then he rode after the
knight that had his paramour, and bade him turn and joust. So sir Dinas smote him down, that
with the fall he brake his leg and his arm. And then his lady and paramour cried sir Dinas
mercy, and said she would love him better than ever she did. Nay, said sir Dinas, I shall never
trust them that once betrayed me, and therefore, as ye have begun, so end, for I will never
meddle with you. And so sir Dinas departed, and took his brachets with him, and so rode to
his castle.

Now will we turn unto sir Launcelot, that was right heavy that he could never hear no tidings
of sir Tristram, for all this while he was in prison with sir Darras, Palomides, and Dinadan.
Then Dame Bragwaine took her leave to go into Cornwall, and sir Launcelot, sir Kay, and sir
Gaheris rode to seek sir Tristram in the country of Surluse.

Now speaketh this tale of sir Tristram and of his two fellows, for every day sir Palomides
brawled and said language against sir Tristram. I marvel, said sir Dinadan, of thee, sir Palomides,
an thou haddest sir Tristram here thou wouldst do him no harm; for an a wolf and a sheep were
together in a prison the wolf would suffer the sheep to be in peace. And wit thou well, said
sir Dinadan, this same is sir Tristram at a word, and now must thou do thy best with him, and
let see now if ye can skift it with your hands. Then was sir Palomides abashed and said little.
Sir Palomides, then said sir Tristram, I have heard much of your maugre against me, but I will
not meddle with you as at this time by my will, because I dread the lord of this place that
hath us in governance; for an I dread him not more than I do thee, soon it should be skift:
so they peaced themself. Right so came in a damosel and said: Knights, be of good cheer, for
ye are sure of your lives, and that I heard say my lord, Sir Darras. Then were they glad all
three, for daily they weened they should have died.

Then soon after this Sir Tristram fell sick that he weened to have died; then Sir Dinadan wept,
and so did Sir Palomides under them both making great sorrow. So a damosel came in to them
and found them mourning. Then she went unto Sir Darras, and told him how that mighty knight
that bare the black shield was likely to die. That shall not be, said Sir Darras, for God defend
when knights come to me for succour that I should suffer them to die within my prison. Therefore,
said Sir Darras to the damosel, fetch that knight and his fellows afore me. And then anon Sir
Darras saw Sir Tristram brought afore him. He said: Sir knight, me repenteth of thy sickness
for thou art called a full noble knight, and so it seemeth by thee; and wit ye well it shall
never be said that Sir Darras shall destroy such a noble knight as thou art in prison, howbeit
that thou hast slain three of my sons whereby I was greatly aggrieved. But now shalt thou go
and thy fellows, and your harness and horses have been fair and clean kept, and ye shall go
where it liketh you, upon this covenant, that thou, knight, wilt promise me to be good friend
to my sons two that be now alive, and also that thou tell me thy name. Sir, said he, as for
me my name is Sir Tristram de Liones, and in Cornwall was I born, and nephew I am unto King
Mark. And as for the death of your sons I might not do withal, for an they had been the next
kin that I have I might have done none otherwise. And if I had slain them by treason or treachery
I had been worthy to have died. All this I consider, said Sir Darras, that all that ye did
was by force of knighthood, and that was the cause I would not put you to death. But sith ye
be Sir Tristram, the good knight, I pray you heartily to be my good friend and to my sons.
Sir, said Sir Tristram, I promise you by the faith of my body, ever while I live I will do
you service, for ye have done to us but as a natural knight ought to do. Then Sir Tristram
reposed him there till that he was amended of his sickness; and when he was big and strong
they took their leave, and every knight took their horses, and so departed and rode together
till they came to a cross way. Now fellows, said Sir Tristram, here will we depart in sundry
ways. And because Sir Dinadan had the first adventure of him I will begin.

SO as Sir Dinadan rode by a well he found a lady making great dole. What aileth you? said Sir
Dinadan. Sir knight, said the lady, I am the wofullest lady of the world, for within these
five days here came a knight called Sir Breuse Saunce Pite, and he slew mine own brother, and
ever since he hath kept me at his own will, and of all men in the world I hate him most; and
therefore I require you of knighthood to avenge me, for he will not tarry, but be here anon.
Let him come, said Sir Dinadan, and because of honour of all women I will do my part. With
this came Sir Breuse, and when he saw a knight with his lady he was wood wroth. And then he
said: Sir knight, keep thee from me. So they hurtled together as thunder, and either smote
other passing sore, but Sir Dinadan put him through the shoulder a grievous wound, and or ever
Sir Dinadan might turn him Sir Breuse was gone and fled. Then the lady prayed him to bring
her to a castle there beside but four mile thence; and so Sir Dinadan brought her there, and
she was welcome, for the lord of that castle was her uncle; and so Sir Dinadan rode his way
upon his adventure.

Now turn we this tale unto Sir Tristram, that by adventure he came to a castle to ask lodging,
wherein was Queen Morgan le Fay; and so when Sir Tristram was let into that castle he had good
cheer all that night. And upon the morn when he would have departed the queen said: Wit ye
well ye shall not depart lightly, for ye are here as a prisoner. Jesu defend! said Sir Tristram,
for I was but late a prisoner. Fair knight, said the queen, ye shall abide with me till that
I wit what ye are and from whence ye come. And ever the queen would set Sir Tristram on her
own side, and her paramour on the other side. And ever Queen Morgan would behold Sir Tristram,
and thereat the knight was jealous, and was in will suddenly to have run upon Sir Tristram
with a sword, but he left it for shame. Then the queen said to Sir Tristram: Tell me thy name,
and I shall suffer you to depart when ye will. Upon that covenant I tell you my name is Sir
Tristram de Liones. Ah, said Morgan le Fay, an I had wist that, thou shouldst not have departed
so soon as thou shalt. But sithen I have made a promise I will hold it, with that thou wilt
promise me to bear upon thee a shield that I shall deliver thee, unto the castle of the Hard
Rock, where King Arthur had cried a great tournament, and there I pray you that ye will be,
and to do for me as much deeds of arms as ye may do. For at the Castle of Maidens, Sir Tristram,
ye did marvellous deeds of arms as ever I heard knight do. Madam, said Sir Tristram, let me
see the shield that I shall bear. Then the shield was brought forth, and the field was goldish,
with a king and a queen therein painted, and a knight standing above them, [one foot] upon
the king's head, and the other upon the queen's. Madam, said Sir Tristram, this is a fair shield
and a mighty; but what signifieth this king and this queen, and the knight standing upon both
their heads? I shall tell you, said Morgan le Fay, it signifieth King Arthur and Queen Guenever,
and a knight who holdeth them both in bondage and in servage. Who is that knight? said Sir
Tristram. That shall ye not wit as at this time, said the queen. But as the French book saith,
Queen Morgan loved Sir Launcelot best, and ever she desired him, and he would never love her
nor do nothing at her request, and therefore she held many knights together for to have taken
him by strength. And because she deemed that Sir Launcelot loved Queen Guenever paramour, and
she him again, therefore Queen Morgan le Fay ordained that shield to put Sir Launcelot to a
rebuke, to that intent that King Arthur might understand the love between them. Then Sir Tristram
took that shield and promised her to bear it at the tournament at the Castle of the Hard Rock.
But Sir Tristram knew not that that shield was ordained against Sir Launcelot, but afterward
he knew it.

SO then Sir Tristram took his leave of the queen, and took the shield with him. Then came the
knight that held Queen Morgan le Fay, his name was Sir Hemison, and he made him ready to follow
Sir Tristram. Fair friend, said Morgan, ride not after that knight, for ye shall not win no
worship of him. Fie on him, coward, said Sir Hemison, for I wist never good knight come out
of Cornwall but if it were Sir Tristram de Liones. What an that be he? said she. Nay, nay,
said he, he is with La Beale Isoud, and this is but a daffish knight. Alas, my fair friend,
ye shall find him the best knight that ever ye met withal, for I know him better than ye do.
For your sake, said Sir Hemison, I shall slay him. Ah, fair friend, said the queen, me repenteth
that ye will follow that knight, for I fear me sore of your again coming. With this this knight
rode his way wood wroth, and he rode after Sir Tristram as fast as he had been chased with
knights. When Sir Tristram heard a knight come after him so fast he returned about, and saw
a knight coming against him. And when he came nigh to Sir Tristram he cried on high: Sir knight,
keep thee from me. Then they rushed together as it had been thunder, and Sir Hemison brised
his spear upon Sir Tristram, but his harness was so good that he might not hurt him. And Sir
Tristram smote him harder, and bare him through the body, and he fell over his horse's croup.
Then Sir Tristram turned to have done more with his sword, but he saw so much blood go from
him that him seemed he was likely to die, and so he departed from him and came to a fair manor
to an old knight, and there Sir Tristram lodged.

NOW leave to speak of Sir Tristram, and speak we of the knight that was wounded to the death.
Then his varlet alighted, and took off his helm, and then he asked his lord whether there were
any life in him. There is in me life said the knight, but it is but little; and therefore leap
thou up behind me when thou hast holpen me up, and hold me fast that I fall not, and bring
me to Queen Morgan le Fay; for deep draughts of death draw to my heart that I may not live,
for I would fain speak with her or I died: for else my soul will be in great peril an I die.
For[thwith] with great pain his varlet brought him to the castle, and there Sir Hemison fell
down dead. When Morgan le Fay saw him dead she made great sorrow out of reason; and then she
let despoil him unto his shirt, and so she let him put into a tomb. And about the tomb she
let write: Here lieth Sir Hemison, slain by the hands of Sir Tristram de Liones.

Now turn we unto Sir Tristram, that asked the knight his host if he saw late any knights adventurous.
Sir, he said, the last night here lodged with me Ector de Maris and a damosel with him, and
that damosel told me that he was one of the best knights of the world. That is not so, said
Sir Tristram, for I know four better knights of his own blood, and the first is Sir Launcelot
du Lake, call him the best knight, and Sir Bors de Ganis, Sir Bleoberis, Sir Blamore de Ganis,
and Sir Gaheris. Nay, said his host, Sir Gawaine is a better knight than he. That is not so,
said Sir Tristram, for I have met with them both, and I felt Sir Gaheris for the better knight,
and Sir Lamorak I call him as good as any of them except Sir Launcelot. Why name ye not Sir
Tristram? said his host, for I account him as good as any of them. I know not Sir Tristram,
said Tristram. Thus they talked and bourded as long as them list, and then went to rest. And
on the morn Sir Tristram departed, and took his leave of his host, and rode toward the Roche
Dure, and none adventure had Sir Tristram but that; and so he rested not till he came to the
castle, where he saw five hundred tents.

THEN the King of Scots and the King of Ireland held against King Arthur's knights, and there
began a great medley. So came in Sir Tristram and did marvellous deeds of arms, for there he
smote down many knights. And ever he was afore King Arthur with that shield. And when King
Arthur saw that shield he marvelled greatly in what intent it was made; but Queen Guenever
deemed as it was, wherefore she was heavy. Then was there a damosel of Queen Morgan in a chamber
by King Arthur, and when she heard King Arthur speak of that shield, then she spake openly
unto King Arthur. Sir King, wit ye well this shield was ordained for you, to warn you of your
shame and dishonour, and that longeth to you and your queen. And then anon that damosel picked
her away privily, that no man wist where she was become. Then was King Arthur sad and wroth,
and asked from whence came that damosel. There was not one that knew her nor wist where she
was become. Then Queen Guenever called to her Sir Ector de Maris, and there she made her complaint
to him, and said: I wot well this shield was made by Morgan le Fay in despite of me and of
Sir Launcelot, wherefore I dread me sore lest I should be destroyed. And ever the king beheld
Sir Tristram, that did so marvellous deeds of arms that he wondered sore what knight he might
be, and well he wist it was not Sir Launcelot. PREFACE.

The Text-book now offered to the public has been prepared to meet the existing want of a practical
"handy book" for the Assayer.

To mining men the word "assaying"
conveys a sufficiently clear meaning, but it is difficult to define. So King Arthur had marvel what knight he might be. And ever Sir
Arthur's eye was on that shield. All that espied the queen, and that made her sore afeard.

Then ever Sir Tristram smote down knights wonderly to behold, what upon the right hand and
upon the left hand, that unnethe no knight might withstand him. And the King of Scots and the
King of Ireland began to withdraw them. When Arthur espied that, he thought that that knight
with the strange shield should not escape him. Then he called unto him Sir Uwaine le Blanche
Mains, and bade him arm him and make him ready. So anon King Arthur and Sir Uwaine dressed
them before Sir Tristram, and required him to tell them where he had that shield. Sir, he said,
I had it of Queen Morgan le Fay, sister unto King Arthur.

So here endeth this history of this book, for it is the first book of Sir Tristram de Liones
and the second book of Sir Tristram followeth.

