"Mother," I said, "you do not know how all this weighs upon me. I promised Julia to give her
up, and never to see her again; but it is almost more than I can bear, especially now. I shall
be as friendless and homeless as Olivia by-and-by."

I had knelt down beside her, and she pressed my face to hers, murmuring those soft, fondling
words, which a man only hears from his mother's lips. I knew that the anguish of her soul was
even greater than my own. The agitation was growing too much for her, and would end in an access
of her disease. I must put an end to it at once.

"I suppose Julia is gone to the new house now," I said, in a calm voice.

"Yes," she answered, but she could say no more.

"And Miss Daltrey with her?" I pursued.

The mention of that name certainly roused my mother more effectually than any thing else I
could have said. She released me from her clinging hands, and looked up with a decided expression
of dislike on her face.

"Yes," she replied. "Julia is just wrapped up in her, though why I cannot imagine. So is your
father. But I don't think you will like her, Martin. I don't want you to be taken with her."

"I won't, mother," I said. "I am ready to hate her, if that is any satisfaction to you."

"Oh, you must not say that," she answered, in a tone of alarm. "I do not wish to set you against
her, not in the least, my boy. Only she has so much influence over Julia and your father; and
I do not want you to go over to her side. I know I am very silly; but she always makes my flesh
creep when she is in the room."

"Then she shall not come into the room," I said.

"Martin," she went on, "why does it rouse one up more to speak evil of people than to speak
good of them? Speaking of Kate Daltrey makes me feel stronger than talking of Olivia."

I laughed a little. It had been an observation of mine, made some years ago, that the surest
method of consolation in cases of excessive grief, was the introduction of some family or neighborly
gossip, seasoned slightly with scandal. The most vehement mourning had been turned into another
current of thought by the lifting of this sluice.

"It restores the balance of the emotions," I answered. "Anything soft, and tender, and touching,
makes you more sensitive. A person like Miss Daltrey acts as a tonic; bitter, perhaps, but
invigorating."

The morning passed without any interruption; but in the afternoon Grace came in, with a face
full of grave importance, to announce that Miss Dobrée had called, and desired to see Mrs.
Dobrée alone. "Quite alone," repeated Grace, emphatically.

"I'll go up-stairs to my own room," I said to my mother.

"I am afraid you cannot, Martin," she answered, hesitatingly. "Miss Daltrey has taken possession
of it, and she has not removed all her things yet. She and Julia did not leave till late last
night. You must go to the spare room."

"I thought you would have kept my room for me, mother," I said, reproachfully.

"So I would," she replied, her lips quivering, "but Miss Daltrey took a fancy to it, and your
father and Julia made a point of indulging her. I really think Julia would have had every thing
belonging to you swept into the streets. It was very hard for me, Martin. I was ten times more
vexed than you are to give up your room to Miss Daltrey. It was my only comfort to go and sit
there, and think of my dear boy." "Never mind, never mind," I answered. "I am at home now,
and you will never be left alone with them again--nevermore, mother."

I retreated to the spare room, fully satisfied that I should dislike Miss Daltrey quite as
much as my mother could wish. Finding that Julia prolonged her visit downstairs, I went out
after a while for a stroll in the old garden, where the trees and shrubs had grown with my
growth, and were as familiar as human friends to me. I visited Madam in her stall, and had
a talk with old Pellet; and generally established my footing once more as the only son of the
house; not at all either as if I were a prodigal son, come home repentant. I was resolved not
to play that rôle, for had I not been more sinned against than sinning? 

Midway between the height and depth of ocean, i mark'd a whirlpool in perpetual play, that as the
elevation were itself alive, and get prey on every side, with feelers countless in sunbeams, common as
gossamer: with independent became, a film transfigured the long creature, self-Girt, been yet
but each agent as one common wash, an coarse at all their spectral labours. In an stony eminence,
where stood employd ere inferior ridges, of the point, though light and darkness meet on slim
gloom. But I was also nearer to Olivia, and
every throb of my pulse was quickened by the mere thought of that.

CHAPTER THE TWENTY-SIXTH.

A NEW PATIENT.

In one sense, time seemed to be standing still with me, so like were the days that followed
the one to the other. But in another sense those days fled with awful swiftness, for they were
hurrying us both, my mother and me, to a great gulf which would soon, far too soon, lie between us.

Every afternoon Julia came to spend an hour or two with my mother; but her arrival was always
formally announced, and it was an understood thing that I should immediately quit the room,
to avoid meeting her. There was an etiquette in her resentment which I was bound to observe.

What our circle of friends thought, had become a matter of very secondary consideration to
me; but there seemed a general disposition to condone my offences, in view of the calamity
that was hanging by a mere thread above me. I discovered from their significant remarks that
it had been quite the fashion to visit Sark during the summer, by the Queen of the Isles, which
made the passage every Monday; and that Tardif's cottage had been an object of attraction to
many of my relatives of every degree. Few of them had caught even a glimpse of Olivia; and
I suspected that she had kept herself well out of sight on those days when the weekly steamer
flooded the island with visitors.

I had not taken up any of my old patients again, for I was determined that everybody should
feel that my residence at home was only temporary. But, about ten days after my return, the
following note was brought to me, directed in full to Dr. Martin Dobrée:

"A lady from England, who is only a visitor in Guernsey, will be much obliged by Dr. Martin
Dobrée calling upon her, at Rose Villa, Vauvert Road. She is suffering from a slight indisposition;
and, knowing Dr. Senior by name and reputation, she would feel great confidence in the skill
of Dr. Senior's friend."

I wondered for an instant who the stranger could be, and how she knew the Seniors; but, as
there could be no answer to these queries without visiting the lady, I resolved to go. Rose
Villa was a house where the rooms were let to visitors during the season, and the Vauvert Road
was scarcely five minutes' walk from our house. Julia was paying her daily visit to my mother,
and I was at a loss for something to do, so I went at once.

I found a very handsome, fine-looking woman; dark, with hair and eyes as black as a gypsy's,
and a clear olive complexion to match. Her forehead was low, but smooth and well-shaped; and
the lower part of her face, handsome as it was, was far more developed than the upper. There
was not a trace of refinement about her features; yet the coarseness of them was but slightly
apparent as yet. She did not strike me as having more than a very slight ailment indeed, though
she dilated fluently about her symptoms, and affected to be afraid of fever. It is not always
possible to deny that a woman has a violent headache; but, where the pulse is all right, and
the tongue clean, it is clear enough that there is not any thing very serious threatening her.
My new patient did not inspire me with much sympathy; but she attracted my curiosity, and interested
me by the bold style of her beauty.

"You Guernsey people are very stiff with strangers," she remarked, as I sat opposite to her,
regarding her with that close observation which is permitted to a doctor.

"So the world says," I answered. "Of course I am no good judge, for we Guernsey people believe
ourselves as perfect as any class of the human family. Certainly, we pride ourselves on being
a little more difficult of approach than the Jersey people. Strangers are more freely welcome
there than here, unless they bring introductions with them. If you have any introductions,
you will find Guernsey as hospitable a spot as any in the world."

"I have been here a week," she replied, pouting her full crimson lips, "and have not had a
chance of speaking a word, except to strangers like myself who don't know a soul."

That, then, was the cause of the little indisposition which had obtained me the honor of attending
her. I indulged myself in a mild sarcasm to that effect, but it was lost upon her. She gazed
at me solemnly with her large black eyes, which shone like beads.

"I am really ill," she said, "but it has nothing to do with not seeing anybody, though that's
dull. There's nothing for me to do but take a bath in the morning, and a drive in the afternoon,
and go to bed very early. Good gracious! it's enough to drive me mad!"

"Try Jersey," I suggested.

"No, I'll not try Jersey," she said. "I mean to make my way here. Don't you know anybody, doctor,
that would take pity on a poor stranger?"

"I am sorry to say no," I answered.

She frowned at that, and looked disappointed. I was about to ask her how she knew the Seniors,
when she spoke again.

"Do you have many visitors come to Guernsey late in the autumn, as late as October?" she inquired.

"Not many," I answered; "a few may arrive who intend to winter here."

"A dear young friend of mine came here last autumn," she said, "alone, as I am, and I've been
wondering, ever since I've been here, however she would get along among such a set of stiff,
formal, stand-offish folks. She had not money enough for a dash, or that would make a difference,
I suppose."

"Not the least," I replied, "if your friend came without any introductions."

"What a dreary winter she'd have!" pursued my patient, with a tone of exultation. "She was
quite young, and as pretty as a picture. All the young men would know her, I'll be bound, and
you among them, Dr. Martin. Any woman who isn't a fright gets stared at enough to be known again."

Could this woman know any thing of Olivia? I looked at her more earnestly and critically. She
was not a person I should like Olivia to have any thing to do with. A coarse, ill-bred, bold
woman, whose eyes met mine unabashed, and did not blink under my scrutiny. Could she be Olivia's
step-mother, who had been the ruin of her life?

"I'd bet a hundred to one you know her," she said, laughing and showing all her white teeth.
"A girl like her couldn't go about a little poky place like this without all the young men
knowing her. Perhaps she left the island in the spring. I have asked at all the drapers' shops,
but nobody recollects her. I've very good news for her if I could find her--a slim, middle-sized
girl, with a clear, fair skin, and gray eyes, and hair of a bright brown. Stay, I can show
you her photograph."

She put into my hands an exquisite portrait of Olivia, taken in Florence. There was an expression
of quiet mournfulness in the face, which touched me to the core of my heart. I could not put
it down and speak indifferently about it. My heart beat wildly, and I felt tempted to run off
with the treasure and return no more to this woman.

"Ah! you recognize her!" she exclaimed triumphantly.

