"I think it is," said Mark Robarts, asking himself whether the contentment accruing to him
from such blessings had made him satisfied at all points. He had all these things of which
Miss Dunstable spoke, and yet he had told his wife, the other day, that he could not afford
to neglect the acquaintance of a rising politician like Harold Smith.

"What I find fault with is this," continued Miss Dunstable, "that we expect clergymen to do
their duty, and don't give them a sufficient income--give them hardly any income at all. Is
it not a scandal, that an educated gentleman with a family should be made to work half his
life, and perhaps the whole, for a pittance of seventy pounds a year!" Mark said that it was
a scandal, and thought of Mr. Evan Jones and his daughter; and thought also of his own worth,
and his own house, and his own nine hundred a year.

"And yet you clergymen are so proud--aristocratic would be the genteel word, I know--that you
won't take the money of common, ordinary poor people. You must be paid from land and endowments,
from tithe and church property. You can't bring yourself to work for what you earn, as lawyers
and doctors do. It is better that curates should starve than undergo such ignominy as that."

"It is a long subject, Miss Dunstable."

"A very long one; and that means that I am not to say any more about it."

"I did not mean that exactly."

"Oh, but you did though, Mr. Robarts. And I can take a hint of that kind when I get it. You
clergymen like to keep those long subjects for your sermons, when no one can answer you. Now
if I have a longing heart's desire for anything at all in this world, it is to be able to get
up into a pulpit, and preach a sermon."

"You can't conceive how soon that appetite would pall upon you, after its first indulgence."

"That would depend upon whether I could get people to listen to me. It does not pall upon Mr.
Spurgeon, I suppose." Then her attention was called away by some question from Mr. Sowerby,
and Mark Robarts found himself bound to address his conversation to Miss Proudie. Miss Proudie,
however, was not thankful, and gave him little but monosyllables for his pains.

"Of course you know Harold Smith is going to give us a lecture about these islanders," Mr.
Sowerby said to him, as they sat round the fire over their wine after dinner. Mark said that
he had been so informed, and should be delighted to be one of the listeners.

"You are bound to do that, as he is going to listen to you the day afterwards--or, at any rate,
to pretend to do so, which is as much as you will do for him. It'll be a terrible bore--the
lecture, I mean, not the sermon." And he spoke very low into his friend's ear. "Fancy having
to drive ten miles after dusk, and ten miles back, to hear Harold Smith talk for two hours
about Borneo! One must do it, you know."

"I dare say it will be very interesting."

"My dear fellow, you haven't undergone so many of these things as I have. But he's right to
do it. It's his line of life; and when a man begins a thing he ought to go on with it. Where's
Lufton all this time?"

"In Scotland, when I last heard from him; but he's probably at Melton now."

"It's deuced shabby of him, not hunting here in his own county. He escapes all the bore of
going to lectures, and giving feeds to the neighbours; that's why he treats us so. He has no
idea of his duty, has he?"

"Lady Lufton does all that, you know."

"I wish I'd a Mrs. Sowerby mère to do it for me. But then Lufton has no constituents to look
after--lucky dog! By the by, has he spoken to you about selling that outlying bit of land of
his in Oxfordshire? But he had only the vague feeling that something
terrible happened and that he was completely defenseless.

As the brothers walked back up the stairs, they heard the drivers talking all tangled up and
laugh.

The youngest cried out to the Geronimo: "Sing us but also what to pay, we already! - Not true,
"he turned to the others.

Mary, who has just come with a bottle of red wine, said, "Catch anything with him today, he in
a bad mood. "

Instead of each response is presented Geronimo back middle of the
room and began to sing.

As he had finished, the drivers clapped their hands.

"Come here, Carlo," cried one, "we want our money you throw in his
hat as the people below, "and he took a small coin and held up his
hand as he wanted them in the hat drop, the more stretched him Carlo.

As the blind man grabbed the arm of the Carter and said, "Dear me, dear me! It could come next -
next! "

"Why wrong?"

"Eh, now! Between the legs of Mary! "

Everyone laughed, the host and Maria too, but Carlo was standing there
motionless.

Never had such Geronimo Made jokes! ...

"Sit down with us," cried the drivers. "You're a funny guy," And they came together, to make
Geronimo place. Louder and was confused mess the speeches, talking Geronimo with, louder and
more fun than usual, and did not stop drinking. When Mary came back just, he wanted to go by, as said
one of the teamsters, laughing: "Do you think maybe she is beautiful? She's an ugly old woman!
"

But the blind man pulled Maria in his lap. "You all fools," he said, are. "Do you think I need
my eyes to see? I also know where Carlo is now - eh! - There at the stove he stands with his hands
in his pockets and laughed added. "

Everyone looked at Carlo, who was leaning with his mouth open the oven and really the face a
wry grin, as he would his brother do not lie.

The servant came in, and if the drivers wanted to be in before dark Bormio, had they hurry. They stood up
and took their noisy. The two brothers were alone again in the inn. It was the hour at which
they otherwise tended to sleep sometimes. The entire inn fell into silence as always at this time
of the early afternoon. Geronimo, his head on the table seemed to sleep. Carlo went back and forth
at first, then He sat on the bench. He was very tired. It seemed as if he were in a serious Dream
biased. He thought of all sorts, from yesterday, day before yesterday and all the days that
used to were, and especially on warm summer days and white country roads, over which he and his brother
used to hike, and everything was ready and incomprehensible, as if it never could be.

By late afternoon the mail from the Tyrol and was soon in small breaks between cars, the same
way to the south increased. Only four times had the brothers in the yard down. When she went
up the last time, the dawn had broken, and the oil lamp, that hung from the wooden ceiling
snapped. Workers came to close in a quarry were employed and opened a few hundred yards below the
inn their wooden huts had. Geronimo sat down with them; Carlo remained alone at his table. He
was as took his loneliness for a long time. He heard Geronimo over loud, almost shouting, about
his childhood that he still remembered very well all sorts of things he and his Eyes have seen,
people and things: the father, as he worked in the field, to the small Garden with the ash from
the wall, on the low house, which belonged to them, to the two little daughter of the shoemaker,
the vineyard behind the church, even to his own child's face, as it had looked towards him
from the mirror. How often Carlo had heard it all. Today he endured it. It sounded different
than usual: every word said Geronimo, got a new meaning and seemed to judge him against. He sneaked
out and went back to the Road that now lay completely in the dark.

The rain had stopped, the air was very cold, and the idea seemed Carlo almost tempting to go
on, more and more deeply into the Darkness inside to lie down at the end somewhere to sleep
in a ditch, do not to wake up more. - Suddenly he heard the wheels
of a car and saw the glimmer of light two lanterns that were closer.

In the car that drove by, sat two men.

One of them took fright with a narrow, beardless face, as Carlos Shape in the light of the lanterns
out of the darkness appeared.

Carlo, who was stopped, raised his hat.

The car and the lights disappeared. Carlo was back in deep darkness. Suddenly he was startled.
The first time in his life made him fear the darkness.

It seemed to him that he could stand it a minute longer. mingled
in a strange way In his dull senses the awe he felt for himself, with
a tormenting Pity for the blind brother and chased him home.

When he came into the bar, he saw the two passengers who previously drove past him were sitting
with a bottle of red wine at a table and very earnestly with each other . Talk They looked
at little, as he entered.

At the other tables as before Geronimo was among the workers.

"Where are you then, Carlo?" He told the host at the door. "Why do your brother alone? "

"What's the matter?" Carlo asked in alarm.

"Geronimo mistreated the people. Mir's may well be unimportant but you should still think that
soon come difficult times. "

Carlo stepped quickly to his brother and took him by the arms. "Come," he said.

"What do you want?" Yelled Geronimo.

"Come to bed," said Carlo.

"Leave me, leave me! I earn the money, can I do with my money, what I like - eh! - Everything
you could do but do not plug in! You mean well, he gives me everything! Oh no! I 'm a blind man!
But there are people - there are good people who tell me, 'I have twenty francs if your brother!
"'

The workers laughed at.

"It is enough," said Carlo, "come," And he drew his brother with him, dragged him almost the
Stairs down to the bare floor room where they had their camp. cried the whole way Geronimo:
"Yes, now it has come to light, yes, now I know it! Oh wait, only. Where is she? Where's Mary?
Or you put it to her in the savings bank? - Eh, I sing for you, I play guitar, I you live - and
you're a thief "He fell down on the pallet.

From the corridor shone came a faint light, over the door was to the only bed & breakfast the inn
open, and Maria taught her the beds for the night. Carlo stood before his brother and saw him
lying there with the bloated face, with bluish lips, wet hair on the forehead adhesive for many
years, looks older than he was. And slowly he began to understand. Not today could be the distrust
of the blind man, had long since have lain dormant in him, and the only reason, perhaps the
courage he had been missing, say so. And all that Carlo did for him, had been in vain, in vain
remorse, in vain the sacrifice of his whole life.

What should he do now? - If he still continues day after day, Who knows how long will take him
through the eternal night, care for him, begging for him and no other reward than shame and distrust?
If his brother for a thief held, he could indeed every stranger is the same or better pay than he.
Indeed, it alone, can be separated from him forever, that would be the wisest. Then Geronimo
had probably his wrong view, because then he would know what it is, cheated and robbed will be
lonely and miserable.

And he himself, what should he start? Well, he was not yet old, when he was alone, he could
still start many things. As a servant of the least he found all his shelter. But while these thoughts
passed through his head, remained his eyes always fixed on his brother. And he suddenly saw
before him, alone on the edge sonnbeglänzten a road to a stone sitting on the wide-open white eyes
Sky gazing, the not hide it could, and cross with their hands in the night, the was always
around him. And he felt like the blind man had no one else in the world than him so had he none other than
this brother. He understood that the love for this brother the whole content of his life was, and
knew for the first time with complete clarity, only the belief that the blind man replied that
love and forgive him, it had everything in such a bad patient can wear. He could not renounce this
hope of a sudden. He felt that he was the brother just as necessary as the need it brother.
He could not, he wanted not leave him. He either had to endure the distrust or find a way of
satisfying the to convince the blind man of his groundless suspicion ... Yes, if he can somehow
the piece of gold could give! When the blind man he could say tomorrow morning: "I've only kept
so you do not spend on drink's with the workers, so that you people do not steal "... or anything
else ...

Footsteps approached on the wooden stairs, where people went to bed. Suddenly flashed through
his head the idea to knock over, the strangers true to today's incident
to tell and to ask for twenty francs.

But he also knew the same: it was completely hopeless! She would not even believe the whole story.
And he remembered now, how frightened of a pale was moved together, as he, Carlo, suddenly
in the dark had appeared in front of the car.

He stretched himself on the pallet. It was quite dark in the room. Now he heard the workers
talking loudly and with heavy steps came down the wooden steps. Soon both gates were closed. The
servant went back to the stairs and down, then was it still. Carlo Geronimo's only heard snoring.
Soon, his thoughts confused in early dreams. When he awoke, nor was dark all around him. He
looked at the Place where the window was, and when he strained his eyes, he saw there in the
middle of the impenetrable Black is a deep gray rectangle. Geronimo was still sleeping the heavy
sleep of the drunk. Carlo and thought of the day was tomorrow, and he shuddered. He thought
of the night after that day, met the day after that night, in the future that lay before him,
and horror him from the solitude that awaited him. Why had he not been brave in the evening?
Why He had not gone to strangers, and had asked for twenty francs? Maybe If she had pity on
him. And yet - perhaps it was good that he does not had requested. Yes, why was it good? ...
He sat up suddenly and felt his heart beating. He knew why it was good: If they had rejected him,
he would have them in any case suspect remained - so but ... He stared at the gray spot, the light
began to matt ... That what drove him against his will by his head was, if not impossible,
absolutely impossible! ... The doors were locked - and besides, they could wake up ... Yes, there
- the gray bright spot right in the dark was a new day - - -

Carlo stood up when it would prefer him there, and touched his forehead to the cold plate. Why
Was he up? In order to consider? ... To try it? ... What? ... It was impossible - and, moreover,
it was a crime. A crime? What are twenty francs for such people who travel for pleasure a thousand
miles? You would not even notice, that they were missing ... He went to the door and opened it quietly.
Opposite was the other, accessible by two steps, closed. On a nail in the post hung garments.
Carlo ran a hand over them ... Yes, if people left their exchanges in the bag, then life would be
very easy, then soon people no longer need to beg to go ... But the Pockets were empty. Now,
what was left? Back into the room, on the pallet. There was perhaps a better way to gain twenty
francs - a less dangerous and legal. If he really zurückbehielte Zentesimi every time some of
the charity, until he saved up twenty francs, and then bought the piece of gold ... But how
long could the last - months, maybe a year. Ah, if only he had courage!

He was still standing on the corridor. He looked over to the door ... What kind of a streak,
the perpendicular from the top fell on the floor? Was it possible? The door was ajar, not locked?
... Why he wondered about it? For months now did not close the door. What for? He recalled: only
three had been sleeping here in the summer people, two journeymen and one a tourist who had her
foot hurt. The door does not close - he now needs only Courage - yes, and good luck! Courage?
The worst that can happen what it is that the two wake up and he can still find an excuse.
He peeks through the gap into the room. It is still so obscure that he only just perceive the
outlines of two figures on the beds overlying can. He listens: they breathe calmly and evenly.
Carlo opens the door slightly and enters with his bare feet noiselessly into the room. The
two beds are the length according to the same wall opposite the window. In the middle of the
room is a table; Carlo creeps back up. He runs his hand over the area and feels a keychain, a pen
knife, a small book - nothing more ... Now, of course! ... That he could only think about it
would you put money on the table! Ah, now he can be back on! ... And yet, perhaps it needs only
a good feel and it was successful ... And he approaches the bed next to the door, here is something
on the chair - he feels it - it is a revolver ... Carlo winces ... Whether he should not prefer
to keep the same? For why has this man the revolver are ready? When he awakens and notices
him ... But no, he would say yes: It is three clock, get up sir! ... And he makes the revolver
lying.

And he creeps deeper into the room. Here on the other chair in the laundry ... Heaven! she is
... this is a stock exchange - he holds in his hand ...! hear at this moment he is a silent
crash. With a swift movement that extends the length of the foot Bed down ... Once again, this
crash - a heavy sigh of relief - a cough - then again Silence, deep silence. Carlo remains on
the floor, the stock in hand, and waits. Nothing stirs more. Even the pale twilight falls into
the room.

Carlo not dare stand up, but crawling on the floor next to the door that is wide enough open
give him way, already creeping up on the corridor, and here he first rises slowly, with a deep
breath. He opens the stock market, it is divided three ways: left and right, only small pieces
of silver. Carlo now open the middle part, by a slide is closed again,
and feels three twentieths franc pieces.

For a moment he thinks of take two of them, but he soon has the temptation
to just take a piece of gold out and shut the stock market.

Then he kneels down, looks through the column in the chamber, in
which it is completely quiet again, and then he gives the stock a
push, so as to arrive at the second bed slides.

If the stranger wakes up, he will have to believe it from the armchair
dropped.

Carlo rises slowly. Since the floor creaks softly, and in the same Moment he heard a voice
from inside: "What is it? What's the matter? "Carlo makes rapid two steps back, with bated
breath, and slides into its own chamber.

He is in Safety and listens ... Once again, crashing over the bed, and then all is quiet. Between
He holds his fingers the gold pieces.

It has succeeded - succeeded! He has twenty francs, and he can tell his brother: 'Do you see now
that I am not a thief <And they are still make the pilgrimage - to the south, to Bormio, then
continue through the Valtellina ... then to Tirano ... after edol ... by Breno ... to Lake
Iseo like last Year ... This will not be quite suspicious, because
even before yesterday he has to host said: "In a few days, we go down."

It

is getting lighter, the whole room is there in a gray twilight.

Ah, if only Geronimo soon wake up! It travels so well in the morning!

Before sunrise, they will go away. A good morning to the host, the servant, and Mary too, and
then away, away ... And only when for two hours are far, already
near the valley, he will say Geronimo.

Geronimo stretches and stretches.

Carlo called him on: "Geronimo"

"Well, what's up?"

And he is supported with both hands and sits up.

"Geronimo, we want to get up."

"Why?" He the dead eyes focused on his brother.

Carlo knows that Geronimo is now yesterday's incident remembers, but he also knows that no syllable
is talking about before he's drunk again.

"It is cold, Geronimo, we want to go.

It will not better this year, I think we are going. At noon we may be Boladore. "

Geronimo rose. The sounds of the awakening house were audible. Down in the courtyard said the host with
the servant. Carlo got up and went down himself. He was always up early and was often at dawn
into the street. He went over to the innkeeper and said, "We want
to say goodbye.

"

"Ah go, you have today," asked the host.

Yes. It freezes too bad if you stand now in the yard, and the wind
moves through.

"

"Well say hello to me the Baldetti when you come down to Bormio, and he shall not forget to
send me the oil. "

"Yes, I want to greet him. Moreover -.

For the night from this day "He reached into the bag.

"Let it be, Carlo," said the host. "The twenty Zentesimi I give your
brother, I'm he listened so well. Good morning. "

"Thanks," said
Carlo. "Besides, in such a hurry we have not's. We see you even if
you from the cabins come back;? Bormio is in the same place, are not
true, "He laughed and walked up the wooden steps.

Geronimo was the
middle of the room and said. "Well, I'm ready to go"

"DC," said Carlo.

From
an old chest of drawers that stood in a corner of the room, he took
her few belongings and she packed in a bundle. Then he said: "A beautiful
day but very cold."

"I know," said Geronimo. Both left the chamber.

"Go
softly," said Carlo, "sleep here, the two that came yesterday evening."
Cautiously walked her down. "The landlord sends his love," said Carlo,
"he gave us the twenty Zentesimi paid for tonight. Now he is on the
huts and only comes out in two hours again. We will see him again
so the next year. "

Geronimo did not answer. They stepped onto the
road that lay before them in the twilight. Carlo took the left arm
of his brother, and both walked silently down the valley. Even After
a short hike, you were at the point where to keep running the streets
in long-drawn curves begins. Mist rose upward to meet them and tell
them about the highs seemed to eingeschlungen as the clouds. Carlo
and thought: Now I will tell him.

Carlo, however, said not a word
but took the gold piece from his pocket and handed it to his brother;
this took it between the fingers of his right hand, then he led her
on the cheek and the end, he finally nodded. "I've even known," he
said.

"Well," replied Geronimo and Carlo looked at strangely.

"Even
if the stranger had told me anything, I would have known."

"Well,"
Carlo said helplessly. "But you understand that, why am I up against
the other - I was afraid the whole thing at once that you - - And
lo, Geronimo, it would be at the Time, I thought, that you are buying
a new coat and a shirt and shoes also, I think, therefore I have ...
"

The blind man shook his head vigorously. "Why?" And he ran one
hand over his Rock. "Good enough, warm enough and now we come to the
South."

Carlo did not realize that Geronimo himself did not seem
happy that he is not apologizing. And he went on: "Geronimo, it was
not because of me right? Why are you looking forward for not? Now
we have it, is not it? Now we have it all. And then
the time for lunch came; and altogether the day went by pleasantly enough.

"And so that's hunting, is it?" said Miss Dunstable.

"Yes, that's hunting," said Mr. Sowerby.

"I did not see any gentleman do anything that I could not do myself, except there was one young
man slipped off into the mud; and I shouldn't like that."

"But there was no breaking of bones, was there, my dear?" said Mrs. Harold Smith.

"And nobody caught any foxes," said Miss Dunstable. "The fact is, Mrs. Smith, that I don't
think much more of their sport than I do of their business. I shall take to hunting a pack
of hounds myself after this."

"Do, my dear, and I'll be your whipper-in. I wonder whether Mrs. Proudie would join us."

"I shall be writing to the duke to-night," said Mr. Fothergill to Mark, as they were all riding
up to the stable-yard together. "You will let me tell his grace that you will accept his invitation--will
you not?"

"Upon my word, the duke is very kind," said Mark.

"He is very anxious to know you, I can assure you," said Fothergill. What could a young flattered
fool of a parson do, but say that he would go? Mark did say that he would go; and in the course
of the evening his friend Mr. Sowerby congratulated him, and the bishop joked with him and
said that he knew that he would not give up good company so soon; and Miss Dunstable said she
would make him her chaplain as soon as Parliament would allow quack doctors to have such articles--an
allusion which Mark did not understand, till he learned that Miss Dunstable was herself the
proprietress of the celebrated Oil of Lebanon, invented by her late respected father, and patented
by him with such wonderful results in the way of accumulated fortune; and Mrs. Proudie made
him quite one of their party, talking to him about all manner of Church subjects; and then
at last, even Miss Proudie smiled on him, when she learned that he had been thought worthy
of a bed at a duke's castle. And all the world seemed to be open to him.

But he could not make himself happy that evening. On the next morning he must write to his
wife; and he could already see the look of painful sorrow which would fall upon his Fanny's
brow when she learned that her husband was going to be a guest at the Duke of Omnium's. And
he must tell her to send him money, and money was scarce. And then, as to Lady Lufton, should
he send her some message, or should he not? In either case he must declare war against her.
And then did he not owe everything to Lady Lufton? And thus in spite of all his triumphs he
could not get himself to bed in a happy frame of mind.

On the next day, which was Friday, he postponed the disagreeable task of writing. Saturday
would do as well; and on Saturday morning, before they all started for Barchester, he did write.
And his letter ran as follows:--

   Chaldicotes,--November, 185--.

   DEAREST LOVE,

   You will be astonished when I tell you how gay we all are
   here, and what further dissipations are in store for us.
   The Arabins, as you supposed, are not of our party; but
   the Proudies are,--as you supposed also. Your suppositions
   are always right. And what will you think when I tell you
   that I am to sleep at the palace on Saturday? You know
   that there is to be a lecture in Barchester on that day.
   Well; we must all go, of course, as Harold Smith, one of
   our set here, is to give it. And now it turns out that we
   cannot get back the same night because there is no moon;
   and Mrs. Bishop would not allow that my cloth should be
   contaminated by an hotel;--very kind and considerate, is
   it not?

   But I have a more astounding piece of news for you than
   this. There is to be a great party at Gatherum Castle
   next week, and they have talked me over into accepting an
   invitation which the duke sent expressly to me. So
I would I now perhaps no more thoughts about them and their sudden Make death, had not been waiting
for that final goodbye at heimer. This I remember the evening today with a strange, almost painful
clarity about Just as some day on Lake Geneva. It was quite dim, as it past me. Guests went for
a walk in the alleys, I greeted the host and some friends. Where any drowned out the music of a
small chapel room that was hidden in a thicket. I soon came to the small pond surrounded by
tall trees in a semicircle, in the middle of a dark pedestal, so that they seemed to float above
the water, lit the Greek Dancer; by electrical fire from the house the way she was lighting
a bit theatrical. I remember the waves with which they aroused in the years before the secession
had, I must confess, even to me she made some impression, although I Samodeski against exceptionally
, and yet I have the strange feeling that he is not really that the beautiful things, makes
him succeed sometimes, but something else in it, any something incomprehensible, glowing, demonic
my account is definitely the go, if he will stop once, to be young and loved. I think there are
many artists this kind, and that fact has always filled me with a certain satisfaction.

In the vicinity of the pond I met Matilda. She walked on the arm of a young man who looked like
a corps of student and introduced me as a relative of the house.

We walked three of very happy in the garden chatting back and forth in the now all lights flared
were. The woman of the house with Samodeski came towards us. We all stopped for a while, and
to my own astonishment, I told the sculptor some highly appreciative words on the Greek dancer. I
was actually quite innocent because, apparently was in the Air, a peaceful, serene atmosphere,
as happens on such spring evenings sometimes: People who are otherwise indifferent to each
other, welcome each other warmly, others who already have a combines some sympathy, feel stimulated
to all sorts Herzensergießungen. As an example, I a while later and sat on a bench smoking a cigarette,
was joined by a gentleman to me, whom I knew only superficially and to praise the sudden people
started by their wealth to make such a use to make as our host. I was completely his Opinion, although I
think otherwise Heimer Lord of waiting for a very simple-minded snob. Then I told the Lord
all over again for no reason with my views on modern sculpture, I understand not a lot of views,
which for him otherwise certainly no interest would have been, but under the influence of this seductive
spring evening he agreed to me enthusiastically. Later I met the niece of the landlord, who
found the festival very romantic, mainly because the lights hervorglänzten between the sheets
and music in the distance sounded.
 By
that train, the letter was sent towards the metropolis as far as the junction of the Barset
branch line, but there it was turned in its course, and came down again by the main line as
far as Silverbridge; at which place, between six and seven in the morning, it was shouldered
by the Framley footpost messenger, and in due course delivered at the Framley Parsonage exactly
as Mrs. Robarts had finished reading prayers to the four servants. Or, I should say rather,
that such would in its usual course have been that letter's destiny. As it was, however, it
reached Silverbridge on Sunday, and lay there till the Monday, as the Framley people have declined
their Sunday post. It was as if the do not work This could, like the
others did it. Should he help to herd the cows, and he was with all the other boys together,
he looked like a hedge or a bush to get behind to hide. Since he usually sat trembling with fear,
for he could hear, like the other Boys examined it with great clamor that he went on at the games,
wanted to play.

These games always ended up with a lot of beatings, and met regularly at the This strongest,
since it is not defended and could not defend against much stronger. So he crept as soon as
he could, and now ran his cows, where they were going and ate in the pasture of the neighbors.
The anger out there was great, and everyone found the This was too stupid to look after the
cows only, and no one put him in more. It was the same in the work in the field if the boys
should go on for weeding the potato fields. As they threw themselves by preference, the tubers
of Kartoffelblueten to the head, so that the already Time goes by faster. And each gave the
other plenty of back what he received had. This was nothing but the back, but shy and timid,
he looked in all Pages, from where he would be taken. This was just what the other wanted you.
And so served him with much laughter from all sides of the tubers in the back and head.

While the others had but time to work in between, the only ever tried This dodge and hide behind
the potato plants. So it was with this No work, and young and old were in agreement, the This
is to all work too stupid and from the This can never become something. Because he now deserve
nothing, and indeed never was, he was treated well by the wife of Haelmli-Sepp accordingly. If
even eat their own four small children had barely enough, it was most likely for This uebrigblieb
the nothing and then it was said, "You will find something well, you're large enough. "Like
This was actually nourished, knew no one, including the wife of Haelmli-Sepp , but somehow he always
lived.

The small, skinny boys were already here and there a good woman a scrap of bread or a Potato,
when he passed peacefully to her door. This was the begging not. Full he had eaten in his life
before. But he was not as terrible as the persecution and laugh at the boys, in which he was
always shy and always more hidden.

2. Chapter

When Schwemmebachsennhuette

danced on a lovely summer evening than in the blue and sunny air all mosquitoes met located on
the hillside and all Guardian boy - girl. They had now to negotiate special have. The Jopp,
of all the greatest, was the leader of the Assembly. And as all now were together in one place, he indicated
that now Schwemmebachsennhuette to go up, because today was the Kaesfischtag. Now, however, must
be identified above all who stay there and beware the cows, while the other would go to the banquet.
The was now a difficult question, because no one had a mind to sacrifice himself for the other and
to stay. As the wily Uli had the idea, one could even the stupid This To force the cows to give
eight. And lest he forget, it would be possible to advance a little durchpruegeln. The proposal
was well received, and you wanted more of the leaders This pick of the flock, as the intervening
Lisi cried in a loud voice: "That's nothing Clever, what Uli invented. So we all just get
the reward, if we again and come back the cows were lost. You will not yet believe that the
This may, if he is too stupid to herd two cows hats, suddenly twenty. You have to loose, and have
to stay for three at the cows, otherwise it is nothing. "declaration made Lisi Impression that
the new Council was adopted. Three of the band were chosen by lot to stay there convicted, of all
the Uli was among these three. Grumbling and growling, he returned to the winning the crowd back and sat on
the floor beside his two companions in misfortune.

With loud screaming and shouting then crashed the whole group of children up the mountain,
the incomparable Benefit contrary.

The Kaesfischtag was always displayed by Franz Anton the boy, it never failed, to remind him if he should
forget about. Because that was the main hard for them. That was the day on which the Franz
Anton curtailed its fresh cheese around, after this been pressed as a soft mass in the round,
wooden form was. What now between the compressive Weight and the solid form herausdraengte out from
the crowd, was cut off and was to look like a long, snow-white sausage. Which was then broken
into many pieces and the friendly Sennen distributed among the children.

These were the so called Kaesfische. This festival was repeated every two weeks over the summer and was
always a loud Acclamations welcomed.

This was behind the large thistle bush on the ground in hiding, while the negotiation was going
on. He made no sound and remained motionless in the same position until He heard that the
great crowd ran away. Now he peeped cautiously out a little. The three rumbling who remained
sat on the floor and turned her back on him. The others were already well up the pasture came shouting
and cheering echoed funny from the height down. This covered the an irresistible desire to also
participate in the Kaesfischfahrt. Very nimble, he slipped out from behind the bush, and quietly and
light as a weasel, he glided past behind the three malcontents and up the hill. After the last
steep hill was a small, shiny green plateau, as was the Sennhuette. And a few steps away from
the clear flood swept down stream. There in the door his cabin of Franz Anton stood with his
round, friendly face. He laughed about the many jumps, now the boys and girls in their zeal to
the longed-for pleasure to go, made on all sides.

Now they were all in the cabin and a obtruded the other forward, to be even closer this, if the
division would begin.

"Just tame, only tame," laughed the now Franz Anton. "If you hineindraengt all in the cabin,
I have no room for cutting cheese and you did the damage. "Now he took his fixed knife to
hand and went up to the large round cheese which he already on the little table was set deal. The
cutting was rapid. Then he came up with the long, thick, snow-white
line approach.

Now he told her and gave here a piece of and as a piece, often over the heads of the Great away
the little ones, do not penetrate to him could. Because of Franz Anton was just in his division.

This
had been standing at the back, and if he wanted to penetrate a little so he got there a Shock,
where one and flew so from side to side. Franz Anton also saw him not at all, because always a
size and thickness crowded in front of him. Finally, I he such a tremendous kick from wide
on all sides beating Jopp, that he would have to beat almost over. The division also saw was
nearly over, and the This probably that he could arrive at any little piece Kaesfisch, he wanted
to but no blows more. He walked a few steps further down, where the young fir trees stood and
sat on the ground between the trees. At the highest crown of one sat a jolly, small bird and whistled
so merry up into the bright, sunny air, as if there were nothing else in the world as a blue sky
and sunshine.

This the the heart was so happy that he almost forgot the suffering, which he had just happened.

From
time to time he had after the Sennhuette hinueberschauen, because the noise and shouting,
whenever one of the other pieces had been chasing his Kaesfisch again, there was no end. Then he
could still see how each child with a bigger or smaller chunks of beautiful, white mass stood
and bit into it with delight. He sighed slightly and said softly: "If I only once would get
one little piece!" This was never the of the beautiful, white Kaesfischen cost, because he had
never ventured so far as now penetrate the host of the lucky ones. Now he had seen that he's
nothing half when he gathered together all the courage also. And so he came to the sad conclusion
thoughts that his life he never would get Kaesfisch. About it he was so sad that he did not
even hear the bird more and very zusammengeduckt among Tannenbaeumen sat.

Now was the banquet at the lodge to end and with a terrible noise overthrew the children therefore,
perhaps more of a bounce is above another, as reflected in the steep slope more than a spent
case. The half-hidden This discovered in passing round of the noisy Hans, and he screamed loudly
into the bushes, "You Mole, come on out, you have to join" This understood what he had to join.
He had to stand up as a block, so that others could jump over him, and he was then overturned
in most cases. It would be much better remained quiet in his hiding place, but he knew well
what he had expected when he the command is not followed. So he came up obediently. "How many
Kaesfische you got?" screamed at him now at the Hans.

"No," This was back. "Oho, just look at the" Hans shouted even louder in the Crowd into it,
"which will run quickly to the Kaesfischen, and then he runs away again and has not seen. "" You
stupid This ", called on all sides, and at the same time he jumped the big boys over the head away,
so he had enough to do only once again on the feet to come if he had been knocked over. Sometimes
he rolled toppled with a host down the slopes until a lucky coincidence they were all brought
to the feet.

After this tumultuous ride low reached the bottom, ran away all the same, each after his cows.

This
ran on the other side, away from everyone. For now, he still expected a right-wing persecution
of those left behind, far he had run there. He was now to the sump hole and ducked down in there,
so it was no one from the top and bottom . See The bottom hole was a depression in the hillside
where the spring and autumn the Water is often collected and the ground was swampy. But now
the hole was completely dry and a pleasant stay. Because it matured as beautiful, dark red
strawberries in the sun, so beautiful was warm in the well. But the This was everywhere anxious
and alarmed; when he was still in the vicinity of the houses and the Guardian boy. For him, this
could indeed any Moment find again and again to play a trick on him. This shrugged the shy and
anxiety in every note together because he kept thinking: Here comes another one does and I something.
Then he thought again to the quiet spot among the small Tannenbaeumchen up there and to the
whistling of birds, so it took him by force from the ground. He had once there.

With all the forces he ran back up the hill and did not stop again until he was above and now
back was put under the Tannenbaeumchen. was only forward into the valley Fir his hiding place
open a little. So there sat the This in complete safety. Around was a great silence, no sound
penetrated from the bottom up here on the lonely height, only the Little birds sat still on
his fir and whistled his happy songs. The sun was . Perish over there the mountains of snow
began to flicker and glow, and about the whole green pasture lay down the shimmering golden
evening light. This looked to the silent Wonder about. An unprecedented well-being came over
him. Here indeed was all the anxiety and soft awe of him that he had nothing more to fear,
for miles around was not a Man more to see and hear.

Was sitting the This a long time, and most like he had not gone more, because It was so good
he has never been in his life. But when he heard heavy footsteps behind of him from the cabin.
It was the Senn. He came with a quaich therefore, certainly did it over to the stream to fetch
water. This behaved maeuschenstill. For he was so used to it that he was struck by anyone
or laughed at, that he thought The herdsman, it will also do the same and then to turn him
off. He ducked low under the trees. This crackled but his movement, Franz Anton was carefully stepped
closer and looked into the Tannenbusch.

"What are you doing in there?" asked the herdsman with a funny face.

"Nothing," This said in a low voice, trembling with fear.

"Come out. You do not fear if you've done nothing wrong.

From whom do you hide your mind?

Have you hineingefluechtet up about with your Kaesfischen there that you can eat it in peace?
"

"No, I did not have Kaesfische" This said anxiously.

"Do not, and why not?" asked the herdsman in a way that otherwise never a person with This the talking.
Now in his heart awoke something he had never known before - the Confidence in a man.

"They have pushed me to the side," he said, and now stood behind the bushy branches on.

"So, now you can see you yet," continued the Senn continued kindly, "Come a little closer. And why did
you resist not, if they push off you? It reaches always the one other, but yet each takes a turn,
why do not you? "

"They are stronger," said the This so convincing that this explanation
probably the Franz Anton made sense.

Only now that the boys could see well.

This was before the wide, Franz Anton large as a thin Stoecklein
before a tall fir tree.

The hefty man looked a moment the small figures on which to actually
see almost all skin and bones were.

From the thin face, the two eyes looked now and then still quite shy to on it.

"Who are you?" now he asked the boy.

"No one," This was the answer.

"Pah, you will just be somewhere at home? Where do you live?"

"When Haelmli-Sepp."

Now was the Franz Anton on a light.

"Oh, you're the" he said, SOUL, because of the stupid This that you could need to absolutely
nothing, he had heard a lot, it is not known.

"Come with me once," he said sympathetically. "If you're in the Haelmli-Sepp, so you will not free
himself look like a Haelmlein.

Come, Kaesfische are no longer there, but something different. "

The This did not even know what hit him. He went obediently behind
the Franz Anton, but It was as if he were walking with a friend, and
that was it never happened. The herdsman came into the hut, brought
up from a run a round bread board and cut a big piece from. Then he
went to the huge churn, which was golden shiny in the corner, and
took a big piece of butter out. He stressed about the slice of bread
and handed the now solid piece with the thick butter on the This way.
In his whole life had the This never get anything. He looked at it
as if it is not possible that it belonged to him.

"Come out. Eat
it in front of the cabin, I must go to the water," said Franz Anton,
with the merry eyes had followed the expression of happiness and amazement
on the face of the boy. This obeyed. Before the hut, he sat on the
floor. And while the glut of Mountain creek hinueberging, he bit into
his sandwich and bit into it again and again and could not understand
that would give it something so good and he would get it.

Meanwhile,
fresh and pleasant evening the wind was blowing around his head and
rocked down the Tannenbaeumchen back and forth, and the little bird
was still sitting on the highest branch and sang brightly and merry
in the golden evening sky up. And in going to such a house as the Duke of Omnium's it does make a
difference that he goes there in company with the bishop. I can't explain why, but I know that
it does."

"Especially when the bishop is coupled up with the devil, as Mr. Robarts has done," said Lady
Lufton; "he can join the duke with them and then they'll stand for the three Graces, won't
they, Justinia?" And Lady Lufton laughed a bitter little laugh at her own wit.

"I suppose I may go now, Lady Lufton."

"Oh, yes, certainly, my dear."

"I am sorry if I have made you angry with me; but I will not allow any one to speak against
Mr. Robarts without answering them. You have been very unjust to him; and even though I do
anger you, I must say so."

"Come, Fanny; this is too bad," said Lady Lufton. "You have been scolding me for the last half-hour
because I would not congratulate you on this new friend that your husband has made, and now
you are going to begin it all over again. That is more than I can stand. If you have nothing
else particular to say, you might as well leave me." And Lady Lufton's face as she spoke was
unbending, severe, and harsh. Mrs. Robarts had never before been so spoken to by her old friend;
indeed, she had never been so spoken to by any one, and she hardly knew how to bear herself.

"Very well, Lady Lufton," she said; "then I will go. Good-bye."

"Good-bye," said Lady Lufton, and turning herself to her table she began to arrange her papers.
Fanny had never before left Framley Court to go back to her own parsonage without a warm embrace.
Now she was to do so without even having her hand taken. Had it come to this, that there was
absolutely to be a quarrel between them--a quarrel for ever?

"Fanny is going, you know, mamma," said Lady Meredith. "She will be home before you are down
again."

"I cannot help it, my dear. Fanny must do as she pleases. I am not to be the judge of her actions.
She has just told me so." Mrs. Robarts had said nothing of the kind, but she was far too proud
to point this out. So with a gentle step she retreated through the door, and then Lady Meredith,
having tried what a conciliatory whisper with her mother would do, followed her. Alas, the
conciliatory whisper was altogether ineffectual.

The two ladies said nothing as they descended the stairs, but when they had regained the drawing-room
they looked with blank horror into each other's faces. What were they to do now? Of such a
tragedy as this they had had no remotest preconception. Was it absolutely the case that Fanny
Robarts was to walk out of Lady Lufton's house as a declared enemy--she who, before her marriage
as well as since, had been almost treated as an adopted daughter of the family?

"Oh, Fanny, why did you answer my mother in that way?" said Lady Meredith. "You saw that she
was vexed, She had other things to vex her besides this about Mr. Robarts."

"And would not you answer any one who attacked Sir George?"

"No, not my own mother. I would let her say what she pleased, and leave Sir George to fight
his own battles."

"Ah, but it is different with you. You are her daughter, and Sir George--she would not dare
to speak in that way as to Sir George's doings."

"Indeed she would, if it pleased her. I am sorry I let you go up to her."

"It is as well that it should be over, Justinia. As those are her thoughts about Mr. Robarts,
it is quite as well that we should know them. Even for all that I owe to her, and all the love
I bear to you, I will not come to this house if I am to hear my husband abused--not into any
house."

"My dearest Fanny, we all know what happens when two angry people get together."

"I was not angry when I went up to her; not in the least."

"It is no good looking back. What are we to do now, Fanny?"

"I suppose I had better go home," said Mrs. Robarts. "I will go and put my things up, and then
I will send James for them."

"Wait till after lunch, and then you will be able to kiss my mother before you leave us."

"No, Justinia; I cannot wait. I must answer Mr. Robarts by this post, and I must think what
I have to say to him. I could not write that letter here, and the post goes at four." And Mrs.
Robarts got up from her chair, preparatory to her final departure.

"I shall come to you before dinner," said Lady Meredith; "and if I can bring you good tidings,
I shall expect you to come back here with me. It is out of the question that I should go away
from Framley leaving you and my mother at enmity with each other." To this Mrs. Robarts made
no answer; and in a very few minutes afterwards she was in her own nursery, kissing her children,
and teaching the elder one to say something about papa. But, even as she taught him, the tears
stood in her eyes, and the little fellow knew that everything was not right. And there she
sat till about two, doing little odds and ends of things for the children, and allowing that
occupation to stand as an excuse to her for not commencing her letter. But then there remained
only two hours to her, and it might be that the letter would be difficult in the writing--would
require thought and changes, and must needs be copied, perhaps, more than once. As to the money,
that she had in the house--as much, at least, as Mark now wanted, though the sending of it
would leave her nearly penniless. She could, however, in case of personal need, resort to Davis
as desired by him.

So she got out her desk in the drawing-room and sat down and wrote her letter. It was difficult,
though she found that it hardly took so long as she expected. It was difficult, for she felt
bound to tell him the truth; and yet she was anxious not to spoil all his pleasure among his
friends. She told him, however, that Lady Lufton was very angry, "unreasonably angry, I must
say," she put in, in order to show that she had not sided against him. "And, indeed, we have
quite quarrelled, and this has made me unhappy, as it will you, dearest; I know that. 

So the woman had with the children often go hungry. She could not maintain order in the house, and
the work it was never really out of hand. She could also sometimes a good while stop on the dilapidated,
small gallery. Instead of working, she looked over the river to the pretty little house across
the milkmaid, the slices glistened in the sun. Then she said angrily to himself: "Yes, there is already
clean and keep everything clean, that has nothing else to do, but one of us. "Then she went back
to the annoying dull, bleak back room, and the one who came first in her way, she let out the
anger.

This was now mostly a boy of ten or eleven years, which was not her own, but since his birth
in the little house of Haelmli Sepp-lived. This little fellow, from everyone just 'the stupid
This' called looked so gaunt and needy that he was for little held eight year old would have.
He looked so shy and timid moreover, that no one knew how This actually looked like, because
he always looked scary on the ground when one spoke to him. This had never known a mother.
She had died when he barely two Years old. His father was not much later, over the rocks crashed
into the depths, when he came down from Heuholen in the mountains and wanted to shorten the
path. Since the fall He was paralyzed and could do nothing more than to weave together small mats,
which he in the great Inn on the top-selling Seelisberg. The small This had never seen his father
differently Sitting on a stool as a straw mat on his knees. All the people he had the lame Matthis
called.

For six years he was dead, and because in the little house by a small chamber Haelmli-Sepp had
rented with his little boy as Schlafstaette, this was after his father's death the same at the
same place. The little money that was paid for the little This from the community, was the
wife of Haelmli-Sepp very welcome here. And in the chamber, they could now have two put their
boys for the long almost no place to sleep was gone. The This was
small by nature a shy and quiet little boy. You have pulled the strings so that you have almost choked me."
And Lady Lufton deposited her bonnet on the table, and seated herself comfortably in the corner
of the sofa.

"My dear," she said, "there is no duty which any woman owes to any other human being at all
equal to that which she owes to her husband, and, therefore, you were quite right to stand
up for Mr. Robarts this morning." Upon this Mrs. Robarts said nothing, but she got her hand
within that of her ladyship and gave it a slight squeeze.

"And I loved you for what you were doing all the time. I did, my dear; though you were a little
fierce, you know. Even Justinia admits that, and she has been at me ever since you went away.
And, indeed, I did not know that it was in you to look in that way out of those pretty eyes
of yours."

"Oh, Lady Lufton!"

"But I looked fierce enough too myself, I dare say; so we'll say nothing more about that; will
we? But now, about this good man of yours?"

"Dear Lady Lufton, you must forgive him."

"Well, as you ask me, I will. We'll have nothing more said about the duke, either now or when
he comes back; not a word. Let me see--he's to be back;--when is it?"

"Wednesday week, I think."

"Ah, Wednesday. Well, tell him to come and dine up at the house on Wednesday. He'll be in time,
I suppose, and there shan't be a word said about this horrid duke."

"I am so much obliged to you, Lady Lufton."

"But look here, my dear; believe me, he's better off without such friends."

"Oh, I know he is; much better off."

"Well, I'm glad you admit that, for I thought you seemed to be in favour of the duke."

"Oh, no, Lady Lufton."

"That's right, then. And now, if you'll take my advice, you'll use your influence, as a good,
dear sweet wife as you are, to prevent his going there any more. But as the net gain also of
small business for the most part in the coffers of the big houses was so was an industrial
and commercial middle class do not rise in a corresponding expansion. Nor secreted in the wholesalers
and big industrialists sharply from the large landowners. On the one hand, the latter since both
old and Geschaeftsbetreibende capitalists and for mortgage loans in their hands, wholesale trade
and government work combined. On the other hand, it was with the strong moral emphasis, the
Roman in the community on the land fell, and in his political rights alone, which only towards the
end of this period, some restrictions suffered, no doubt, usually already at this time, that
the speculator happy with part of its capital to ansa vinegar made. It is also from the political preference
of the ansa vinegars freedmen sufficiently highlighted, that Roman statesmen acted then, this
is to the dangerous class of reduce grundsaessigen not rich. --------------------------------------------------
---- ^ 7 The assumption that the artist, which for this box to Dindia Macolnia worked in Rome,
Novius Plautius, a Campanian, WAS is the recently old grave stones found praenestinischen refuted
on which, among other Macolniern and Plautii a Plautius son of Lucius Magulnius (L. Magolnio
Pla. f.) occurs. -------------------------------------------------- ---- But when in Rome or
a wealthy urban middle class nor a strictly closed Capitalist class was formed, the large cities
but in essence was in irresistible Rise. Clearly has pointed out the increasing number of pressed together in the capital Slaves, of which the
very serious Sklavenverschwoerung the year 335 (419) bears witness, and yet longer rising, gradually
becoming uncomfortable and dangerous amount of those released, after which in 397 (357) on the releases
down considerable tax and the restriction allow the political rights of freedmen in the year 450
(304) a safe conclusion. For it was not just in the circumstances that the vast majority of
the released People dedicated to the trade or the trade had, but it was also the release itself
The Romans, as I said, less than one Liberalitaet industrial speculation by the Lord in the proportion
of the industrial or commercial profits of the freedmen's often better Than in the bill was entitled
to the entire net proceeds of the slave trade. The increase The releases must therefore with
the increase of commercial and industrial activity the Romans have gone hand in hand required. A
similar hint for the increasing Importance of the urban system in Rome granted the enormous development
of the municipal Police. It belongs to a large extent on well already that time that the four
aediles under The city divided into four police districts, and that for the important but difficult
Maintenance of the network by withdrawing all of Rome from smaller and larger Abzugskanaelen and
the public buildings and places, for the proper cleaning and paving the streets, for the elimination
of imminent collapse of the building, dangerous animals, bad Odors, for the exclusion of the
cars except in the evening and night hours and at all for the maintenance of open communication,
for the uninterrupted supply of the capitals Market with good and cheap grain, for the destruction
of Harmful products and false weights and measures, for the special monitoring of bathrooms,
giving, poor Houses of the aediles parental care was taken. In the construction industry may
well Koenig time, especially the era of great conquests, have accomplished more than the first
two centuries of Republic. Facilities such as the temple on the Capitol and the Aventine Hill
and the big playground like the thrifty fathers of the city as well as the citizens fronenden been
an abomination be, and it is noteworthy that perhaps the most important building of the republican
Time before the Samnite wars, the Temple of Ceres at the Circus, the work of Spurius Cassius (261
493), was what zurueckzulenken in more ways than one back in the traditions of the kings was looking
for. Even the private luxury held down the ruling aristocracy with a severity as to the kingdom
if prolonged, would certainly not have developed. But the length of even the Senate could
no longer against the heavy weight of the situation to stem. Appius Claudius was the one who
in his epoch-making censorship (442 312) the outdated Bauer saving the treasure collecting system
cast aside and his fellow citizens, the public funds use in a dignified manner taught. He
began the great system-profit public Buildings, which, if anything, Rome's military successes by the terms
of Voelkerwohlfahrt is justified, and even today its ruins thousands and thousands who from
roman history have never read a leaf, a clue is the size of Rome. Him owes the Roman State,
the first major Militaerchaussee, the Roman city of the first Water line. Claudius' trail, the Roman
Senate wrapped around Italy that road and fort network, the foundation was described earlier, and
without, as from the Achaemenid down to the creator of the Simplon road teaches the history of
all Militaerstaaten, no military hegemony can be made. Claudius' trail, built Manius Curius From the
proceeds of a second prey Pyrrhic capitals water supply (482 272) and some years earlier opens (464 290)
with the Sabine war, gain the Velino, because Terni above where he plunges into the Nera, which
is still flowing through it from him wider Bed to dry out in this beautiful valley of Rieti for
a large settlement of citizens Space and also for himself to win a modest hooves. Such works
darkened even in the eyes of intelligent people who purposeless splendor of the Hellenistic temple.
Also, the bourgeois life was now different. At the time of Pyrrhus began on the Roman Boards the silverware
to show up ^ 8 and the disappearance of Schindeldaecher in Rome date the chroniclers of the
year 470 (284). The new capital of Italy presented at last their village-like appearance,
and began gradually from now on, even to decorate themselves. Although it was still not the custom
in the conquered cities to Rome, the glorification of their temple ornaments to rob, but it
were displayed at the Rednerbuehne the market, the beaks of the galleys of Antium and public
holidays, length of the hall on the market from the battlefields Samnium brought home gold studded
shields. Especially the yield of the Bruechgelder served to pave the roads in and out of town
or to create and decorate PUBLIC Building. The wooden stalls of the butchers, which at the two
long sides of the market, dragged departed, first at the Palatine, then facing the well at the
Carine page the stone halls of the money changers, because this place was the Roman Stock Exchange.
The Bildsaeulen the celebrated men of the past, the kings, priests and heroes of the Share
time, the Greek host, the Zehnmaennern interpreted the laws to Solon should have the Ehrensaeulen
and monuments of the great mayor, which Veienter, the Latins, the Samnites had been overcome,
the state messengers in the execution of their mission died were the rich women, the public
on their capital purposes disposes had even been celebrated Greek sages and heroes, such as Pythagoras
and Alcibiades, were set up at the Castle or the Roman market. Thus was after become a great power
the Roman community was Rome itself a big city. --------------------------------------- ^ 8 The silver
because of its Tafelgeraets against Publius Cornelius Rufinus (consul 464, 477 290, 277) sentenced
him censorial stigma has already been thought of. Fabius' strange details (for Strabo, 5, p.
228), that the Romans first after the conquest of the Sabines in the luxury revealed have (αισθέσθαι
τού πλόντου), is apparently only one άbersetzung same story to the Historical; since the defeat
of the Sabines falls in Rufinus' first consulate. ------------------------------------- At last, because
Rome also joined as head of the Roman-Italian Confederation as in the Hellenistic State system,
so also in the Hellenic money and coinage. Until then, the communities Copper Courant northern and
central Italy with only few exceptions, the southern Italian towns however, easily passed silver
coins struck and the law Muenzfuesse and Monetary Systems where as many as there were sovereign
communities in Italy. In the year 485 (269) were all these mints to the coinage of restricted
coins, a general, for all Italy introduced and existing Courant foot Courantpraegung centralized in Rome, Capua that his
own, though under Roman names, but were characterized on different base Silver coins and also
retained. The new monetary system was based on the statutory conditions the two metals, the same
as it was clear for a long time, and the common monetary unit was the Composition of ten pounder
any more, but on the third pound reduced Assen Denarius, copper in 3 1 / 3 in Silver 1 / 72 of an Roman
pound, a little something more than Attic drachma. Initially prevailed in the die-stamping before the copper
coins and probably is the oldest silver denarius mainly for southern Italy and for the marketing of the
Abroad have been beaten. But the victory of the Romans over Pyrrhus and Tarentum and the Roman Embassy
to Alexandria to give the Greek statesman of this time to think, had to so also the insightful
Greek merchant might well thoughtfully the new Roman Drachmas look like flat, monotonous and
inartistic character next to the simultaneous the beautiful coins of Pyrrhus and the Siceliotes
however meager and unattractive appears, but still not, as the Barbarenmuenzen of antiquity, slavishly
imitated and not equal in both flour and grain, but are with their independent and conscientious
die-stamping of each Greek house equal to the face side. If, from development the constitutions
of the Voelkerkaempfen to rule and freedom, like Italy and in particular Rome by the banishment of
sex Tarquinian to subjugation of the Samnites and the Italic Greeks moved, the view turns to
the more peaceful districts of the human Existence that dominates the story but also, and penetrates,
he also met everywhere the aftermath of the great events through which the Roman citizenship
the shackles of gender regiment broke and the rich abundance of national education Italy went down gradually
in order to enrich a single people. Could even the historian do not try, the great course
of events in the infinite variety of pursue individual design to go in, he walked over but not his
task to if he, moving from the crumpled tradition Bruchstuecke individual, indicating the main changes
that took place during this period in Italian national life have. If it even more than before
the Roman came to the fore, this is not only in the random gaps of our tradition founded; rather it is a
significant consequence of the altered political position of Rome, that the Latin nationality
the rest obscured more and more Italian. It has been pointed out that in this period, the neighboring
states, the southern Etruria, Sabina, is the Volskerland Romanize to began, of which the almost total
absence of the old Sprachdenkmaelern Country dialects and the occurrence of very ancient Roman inscriptions
in these areas witness stores and the inclusion of the Sabines in full citizenship at the end of this
period suggests that the Romanization of Central Italy at that time the conscious aim of Roman
policy was. The numerous scattered throughout Italy and Einzelassignationen colonial founding are
not only military but also the national language and outposts of the Latin tribe. The Romanization
of the Italians at all was difficult even then intends, on the contrary seems to be the Roman
Senate against the opposition of the Latin get the other nationalities to have deliberately maintained
and allowed, for example, the introduction of Latin in the official language of the Campanian sojourners
communities not yet. However the nature of relationships is stronger than even the strongest
government; with the Latin people also won its language and customs in Italy, the principality
initially and already started to undermine the rest Italian nationalities. At the same time
were the same under attack from another angle and with an otherwise justified superiority by
Hellenism. This was the period when the Greeks of his intellectual superiority over the other
nations began to be aware and propaganda on all sides to make. Italy was also not been immune.
The most remarkable phenomenon in this Art, Apulia, which gradually since the fifth century of
Rome's barbarian dialect and took off in the silent Hellenized. It was so similar as in Macedonia
and Epirus by non-colonization, but by civilization, the Tarentum with the Country trade gone
hand in hand seems to be - at least, it speaks for the latter Assumption that the Tarentines
friendly landscapes and Poediculer Daunians the Hellenization by Taranto closer than keep full
living, but resistant Sallentiner quarreling with him, and that the earliest hellenized cities, such
as Arpi, were not located on the coast. That on the Greek system stronger Apulia Influence
does than on any other Italic landscape, is partly explained by its Position, and partly from
the low development of its own national education, probably partly from the Greek root of his
less alien than any other factors Italian opposite Nationality. However, has been made already
earlier pointed out that the southern Sabellian tribes, although initially in association
with the Hellenic Syracusan tyrant Being in the United Greece bent and spoiled, but also by the
contact and mixing with the Greeks, Greek language in addition to some of the local assumptions, such as
the Brettians and Nola, at least partly Greek alphabet and Greek custom, and as the Lucanians
part of the Campanian. Etruria also shows the beginnings of a similar development in the remarkable
discoveries of this era relatives vases, in which it with Campania and Lucania rivals, and
when Lazio and Samnium Hellenism are absent, so missing it but again not to mark the beginning of the
Greek and ever growing influence Education. In all branches of the Roman development of this period,
legislative and coinage, in religion, in the formation of the saga, we find traces of Greek, and
especially since the beginning of the fifth century, ie since the conquest of Campania, appears
the Greek influence on the Roman system in rapid and ever increasing growth. In the fourth century,
the establishment of the falls and linguistically curious' graecostasis " a platform on the
market for the noble Roman Greek strangers initially, the Massiliots. The following start
the Jahrbuecher, noble Romans with Greek epithets, like Philip or Roman Pilipus, Philo, Sophos
to exhibit Hypsaeos. Greek customs penetrate, so the use nichtitalische, inscriptions in honor
of the dead in the tomb to install, which the grave writing of Lucius Scipio, consul 456 (298),
the oldest known Example is, so also the other way, the Italians, without public in community
decision Places the ancestors to build Ehrendenkmaeler with which the great innovators Appius
Claudius It started when he was in the new temple of Bellona Erzschilde with the images and the
Helmets: Elogien his ancestors left (442 312), so that in the year 461 (293) in the Roman
Festival introducet issue of palm branches at the races, so in particular the Greek Table manners.
The manner at table not as formerly to sit on benches, but on sofas to lie, and the shift of the
main meal of the lunch on the hour between two and three clock in the afternoon after our account,
the drinking champion with the feasts, which mostly by cubes of the guests for the feast to be appointed
and now those at table Prescribe what, how and when to drink, after the number of the guests
sung Table songs that were certainly not in Rome Skoli but Ahnengesaenge - all this is in Rome,
and yet not originally borrowed in very early times the Greeks, for in Cato's time these practices
were already common, so sometimes come off again. Man therefore their introduction will have
to set in later than this time. It is characteristic Bildsaeulen of the establishment of the
"wisest and the bravest Greeks to the Roman Market, which took place during the Samnite wars at the
behest of the Pythian Apollo, we elected, apparently under Sicilian or Kampan influence that Pythagoras
and Alcibiades the Saviour and the Hannibal of the West Greeks. How widespread the knowledge of
Greek was already in the fifth century under the Romans do, prove the embassies the Romans to
Taranto, where the speaker of the Romans, though not in the purest Greek, but without an interpreter,
spoke and Cineas to Rome. It suffers little doubt that since the fifth century, the young Romans,
who were dedicated to the affairs of state, continuity The news of the contemporary world
and diplomatic language to earn. So step on the spiritual Field of Hellenism as inexorably forward,
like the Romans worked the Earth to make submissive, and the secondary nationalities, such as
the Samnite, Celtic, Etruscan, lost, under pressure from two sides, more and more like expansion
of internal Force. But the two great nations, both reached the peak of their development, as in friendly
contact with hostile begin to penetrate, occurs at the same time their opposition, the total lack of
individualism in all the Italian and especially in the Roman character compared to the infinite
derived lichen, and local human Variety of Hellenism in full sharpness out. There are no more
violent era in the history of Rome as the era of the establishment of the Roman Republic to the Subjugation
of Italy, in her was justified outside the community, both internally and, created in her the unification
of Italy, in its traditional foundations of land law and the country's history produced in her
the Pilum and the centurion, the Road and Hydraulic Engineering, the estate and money economically
justified, cast her in the Capitoline she-wolf and the ficoronische box drawn. But the individuality,
which to this gigantic the individual stones have worn, and they brought the assembled are lost without
a trace and Italic tribes of the risen not entirely in the Roman than the individual Roman citizens
in the Roman community. Like the grave in the same way about the important how about the small
people will close, so is also in Roman mayor list the void Junker indistinguishable great addition
to the statesman. Of the few records which are from this period come down to us is not just
a respectable and not at the same time characteristic than the grave writing of Lucius Cornelius
Scipio, in the year 456 (298) Was consulted, and three years later mitfocht in the decisive battle
in Sentinum. On the beautiful sarcophagus in elegant Doric style, the eighty years before the
dust of the conqueror the Samnites single lock is inscribed the following sentence: Lucius Cornelius
- Scipio Barbatus, Gnaivód patre prognátus, - Fortis Vir sapiénsque, Quoiús forma Virtues -
tei parísuma fuite, Consol censor aidílis - Quei fuit apud vos, Taurásiá Cisaúna - Sámnió CEPIT,
Subigít omne Loucánam - ópsidésque abdoúcit.


"Hear, hear, hear," said those on the benches who particularly belonged to Mrs. Proudie's school
of divinity in the city, and among the voices was distinctly heard that of a new verger in
whose behalf she had greatly interested herself.

"Oh, yes, Christianity of course," said Harold Smith, upon whom the interruption did not seem
to operate favourably.

"Christianity and Sabbath-day observance," exclaimed Mrs. Proudie, who, now that she had obtained
the ear of the public, seemed well inclined to keep it. "Let us never forget that these islanders
can never prosper unless they keep the Sabbath holy." Poor Mr. Smith, having been so rudely
dragged from his high horse, was never able to mount it again, and completed the lecture in
a manner not at all comfortable to himself. He had there, on the table before him, a huge bundle
of statistics, with which he had meant to convince the reason of his hearers, after he had
taken full possession of their feelings. But they fell very dull and flat. And at the moment
when he was interrupted, he was about to explain that that material progress to which he had
alluded could not be attained without money; and that it behoved them, the people of Barchester
before him, to come forward with their purses like men and brothers. He did also attempt this;
but from the moment of that fatal onslaught from the arm-chair, it was clear to him, and to
every one else, that Mrs. Proudie was now the hero of the hour. His time had gone by, and the
people of Barchester did not care a straw for his appeal. From these causes the lecture was
over full twenty minutes earlier than any one had expected, to the great delight of Messrs.
Sowerby and Supplehouse, who, on that evening, moved and carried a vote of thanks to Mrs. Proudie.
For they had gay doings yet before they went to their beds.

"Robarts, here one moment," Mr. Sowerby said, as they were standing at the door of the Mechanics'
Institute. "Don't you go off with Mr. and Mrs. Bishop. We are going to have a little supper
at the Dragon of Wantly, and, after what we have gone through, upon my word we want it. You
can tell one of the palace servants to let you in." Mark considered the proposal wistfully.
He would fain have joined the supper party had he dared; but he, like many others of his cloth,
had the fear of Mrs. Proudie before his eyes. And a very merry supper they had; but poor Mr.
Harold Smith was not the merriest of the party.

CHAPTER VII

Sunday Morning

It was, perhaps, quite as well on the whole for Mark Robarts, that he did not go to that supper
party. It was eleven o'clock before they sat down and nearly two before the gentlemen were
in bed. It must be remembered that he had to preach, on the coming Sunday morning, a charity
sermon on behalf of a mission to Mr. Harold Smith's islanders; and, to tell the truth, it was
a task for which he had now very little inclination. When first invited to do this, he had
regarded the task seriously enough, as he always did regard such work, and he completed his
sermon for the occasion before he left Framley; but, since that, an air of ridicule had been
thrown over the whole affair, in which he had joined without much thinking of his own sermon,
and this made him now heartily wish that he could choose a discourse upon any other subject.
He knew well that the very points on which he had most insisted, were those which had drawn
most mirth from Miss Dunstable and Mrs. Smith, and had oftenest provoked his own laughter;
and how was he now to preach on those matters in a fitting mood, knowing, as he would know,
that those two ladies would be looking at him, would endeavour to catch his eye, and would
turn him into ridicule as they had already turned the lecturer? In this he did injustice to
one of the ladies, unconsciously. Miss Dunstable, with all her aptitude for mirth, and we may
almost fairly say for frolic, was in no way inclined to ridicule religion or anything which
she thought to appertain to it. It may be presumed that among such things she did not include
Mrs. Proudie, as she was willing enough to laugh at that lady; but Mark, had he known her better,
might have been sure that she would have sat out his sermon with perfect propriety.

As it was, however, he did feel considerable uneasiness; and in the morning he got up early,
with the view of seeing what might be done in the way of emendation. He cut out those parts
which referred most specially to the islands,--he rejected altogether those names over which
they had all laughed together so heartily,--and he inserted a string of general remarks, very
useful, no doubt, which he flattered himself would rob his sermon of all similarity to Harold
Smith's lecture. He had, perhaps, hoped, when writing it, to create some little sensation;
but now he would be quite satisfied if it passed without remark. But his troubles for that
Sunday were destined to be many. It had been arranged that the party at the hotel should breakfast
at eight and start at half-past eight punctually, so as to enable them to reach Chaldicotes
in ample time to arrange their dresses before they went to church. The church stood in the
grounds, close to that long formal avenue of lime trees, but within the front gates. Their
walk, therefore, after reaching Mr. Sowerby's house, would not be long.

Mrs. Proudie, who was herself an early body, would not hear of her guest--and he a clergyman--going
out to the inn for his breakfast on a Sunday morning. As regarded that Sabbath-day journey
to Chaldicotes, to that she had given her assent, no doubt with much uneasiness of mind; but
let them have as little desecration as possible. It was therefore an understood thing that
he was to return with his friends; but he should not go without the advantage of family prayers
and family breakfast. And so Mrs. Proudie on retiring to rest gave the necessary orders, to
the great annoyance of her household.

To the great annoyance, at least, of her servants! The bishop himself did not make his appearance
till a much later hour. He in all things now supported his wife's rule; in all things, now,
I say; for there had been a moment, when in the first flush and pride of his episcopacy, other
ideas had filled his mind. Now, however, he gave no opposition to that good woman with whom
Providence had blessed him; and in return for such conduct that good woman administered in
all things to his little personal comforts. With what surprise did the bishop now look back
upon that unholy war which he had once been tempted to wage against the wife of his bosom?
Nor did any of the Miss Proudies show themselves at that early hour. They, perhaps, were absent
on a different ground. With them Mrs. Proudie had not been so successful as with the bishop.
They had wills of their own which became stronger and stronger every day. Of the three with
whom Mrs. Proudie was blessed one was already in a position to exercise that will in a legitimate
way over a very excellent young clergyman in the diocese, the Rev. Optimus Grey; but the other
two, having as yet no such opening for their powers of command, were perhaps a little too much
inclined to keep themselves in practice at home. But at half-past seven punctually Mrs. Proudie
was there, and so was the domestic chaplain; so was Mr. Robarts, and so were the household
servants--all excepting one lazy recreant. "Where is Thomas?" said she of the Argus eyes, standing
up with her book of family prayers in her hand. "So please you, ma'am, Tummas be bad with the
tooth-ache." "Tooth-ache!" exclaimed Mrs. Proudie; but her eyes said more terrible things than
that. "Let Thomas come to me before church." And then they proceeded to prayers. These were
read by the chaplain, as it was proper and decent that they should be: but I cannot but think
that Mrs. Proudie a little exceeded her office in taking upon herself to pronounce the blessing
when the prayers were over. She did it, however, in a clear, sonorous voice, and perhaps with
more personal dignity than was within the chaplain's compass.

Mrs. Proudie was rather stern at breakfast, and the vicar of Framley felt an unaccountable
desire to get out of the house. In the first place she was not dressed with her usual punctilious
attention to the proprieties of her high situation. It was evident that there was to be a further
toilet before she sailed up the middle of the cathedral choir. She had on a large loose cap
with no other strings than those which were wanted for tying it beneath her chin, a cap with
which the household and the chaplain were well acquainted, but which seemed ungracious in the
eyes of Mr. Robarts after all the well-dressed holiday doings of the last week. She wore also
a large, loose, dark-coloured wrapper, which came well up round her neck, and which was not
buoyed out, as were her dresses in general, with an under mechanism of petticoats. It clung
to her closely, and added to the inflexibility of her general appearance. And then she had
encased her feet in large carpet slippers, which no doubt were comfortable, but which struck
her visitor as being strange and unsightly. "Do you find a difficulty in getting your people
together for early morning prayers?" she said, as she commenced her operations with the teapot.

"I can't say that I do," said Mark. "But then we are seldom so early as this."

"Parish clergymen should be early, I think," said she. "It sets a good example in the village."

"I am thinking of having morning prayers in the church," said Mr. Robarts.

"That's nonsense," said Mrs. Proudie, "and usually means worse than nonsense. I know what that
comes to. If you have three services on Sunday and domestic prayers at home, you do very well."
And so saying she handed him his cup.

"But I have not three services on Sunday, Mrs. Proudie."

"Then I think you should have. Where can the poor people be so well off on Sundays as in church?
The bishop intends to express a very strong opinion on this subject in his next charge; and
then I am sure you will attend to his wishes." To this Mark made no answer, but devoted himself
to his egg.

"I suppose you have not a very large establishment at Framley?" asked Mrs. Proudie.

"What, at the parsonage?"

"Yes; you live at the parsonage, don't you?"

"Certainly--well; not very large, Mrs. Proudie; just enough to do the work, make things comfortable,
and look after the children." ------------------------------------------- ^
10 Litterator Grammaticus and behave much like teachers and Maître, the latter Appointment
comes after the older language only the teacher of Greek, not the their mother tongue. Litteratus
is younger and does not include the schoolmaster, but the educated man ^ 11 It is surely a
Roman image, which Plautus (Bacch. 431) as a piece of the good old parenting quotes: what if
you came to home, in the jacket on the stool you were sitting down to the teacher; And when
he read the book you missed a syllable, he'll hump your Colorized colorful as a Kinderlatz.
------------------------------------------- A higher notion of what were able to afford in these subjects, the Italians, GRANT
the works of the mechanical sciences closely related to the construction and Visual arts. Although
unusual phenomena actually meet here not, but if by the stamp of the borrowing, which the Italian
is pressed on plastic consistency, the artistic interest in it falls, so attached to the historic
all the more vivid to the same in that they partly from an otherwise lost Voelkerverkehr the
most remarkable Evidence preserved, partly in the almost complete destruction of the history of
nichtroemischen Italians almost alone look at the different tribes of the peninsula in a lively
activity next to each other is. New is not to say here, but probably can be a sharper Determination and
execute on a wider basis, which was shown earlier that the Greek inspiration, the Etruscans and the
Italians from different sides recorded conversant, and there a rich and luscious, here, where
at all, a clear and intimate Art has launched. How completely the Italic architecture of all
landscapes have was penetrated in its most ancient period of Hellenic elements, is shown earlier
been. The walls, the water projects, the pyramidal covered graves, the Tuscan Temples are not
or are not essentially different from the oldest Hellenic buildings. From a development of
the architecture for the Etruscans during this period has no Marker of, we meet here is neither
a front nor a significantly new original Creation - we should have to do Prachtgraeber expect then,
as described by Varro so-called Tomb of the Porsena in Chiusi, which vividly the purposeless
and strange glory the Egyptian pyramids recalls. Also, we moved to Lazio during the first half
Centuries of the republic, only in the most recent tracks, and it's already been said been sunk
that with the introduction of the Republic of the Kunstuebung rather than risen. It is from this
period no other architecturally significant buildings to Latin significant than the annual 261 (493)
in Rome on Circus built Ceres, in the Empire considered a model of the Tuscan style. But come
towards the end of this period a new Ghost in the Italic and especially the Roman building: it begins
the great bow making. Although we are not entitled to declare the arch and the vault for Italic
inventions. It is well settled that in the era of the Genesis of Hellenic architecture the
Greeks the sheets have not known for its temples and therefore the flat ceiling and the sloping
roof had enough: but very well, the wedge section, a younger, from the rational his mechanics
emerged invention of the Greeks, like him because the Greek tradition the physicists Democritus (294-397
460-357) back to. This priority of the Hellenic Bowyer before the Roman is also compatible with what
is often assumed, perhaps rightly is that the main vault at the Roman sewer, one that over the old,
pyramidal Capitoline originally covered spring house later became strained, the oldest buildings
are preserved, has come in which the arch principle applies; because it is more than likely
that these structures arc not the king, but the Republican period, and all belonged to the king
one time you are only flat or Roof overhangs has known. But, as we also discussed the invention of
the bow itself may think the application is everywhere in the large and at least mainly in architecture
as important as establishing the principle, and the respect owed to the Romans undisputed. begins
with the fifth century the much founded on the bow gate, bridge and water line construction,
which is the Roman name henceforth inseparably. Related is hereby nor the development of the
non-Greeks, the Romans, however, preferably at popular, especially for the worship peculiar
to them, especially not the Greek of Vesta, the applied form of the round temple and the dome
roof ^ 12 ----------------------------------------- ^ 12 A replica of the oldest house form,
as has been meant, the circular temple safely not, but the construction is quite out of square.
The later Roman theology links that form around the idea of ​​the planet or the central sun of
the spherical surrounding space (Fest. v. rutundam p. 282; Plut Num 11;.. Ov almost 6, 267F..),
in fact, is due to the same well the simple fact that for the storage and the Abhegen certain premises
as the most comfortable as the safest form the circular always been regarded added. Based on the
round Schatzhaeuser the Greeks as well as the rotunda of the Roman Pantry or Penatentempels, it
was of course also the fire - this means the altar of Vesta - and the fire chamber - that is the Temple of Vesta
- about to set, so well as with the cistern and the well version (puteal) happened. The rotunda
itself graecoitalisch is like that of the chamber and Quadratbau own, such as this the house;
but the architectural and religious development of the simple to the circular Tholos temple with
Pillars and columns is Latin. ---------------------------------------- Something similar like
some of the child, but not about unimportant skills in this area . Shall Of originality or even
Kunstuebung can be no question, but also festgefuegten from the stone slabs of the Roman roads,
highways from their indestructible, from the broad, sounding hard bricks, the mortar of their eternal
building speaks the indestructible Solidity, the energetic efficiency of the Roman system.
As the tectonic, and possibly even more, the visual arts and signing on Italian soil is not
so much by Greek excitation fertilized than germinated from Greek Samenkoernern. That the
same, although only the younger sister of architecture, at least in Etruria already during
King of the Romans began to develop in time, has already been noticed; their main Development,
however, belongs in Etruria, and the more Lazio, this era, as already it is apparent with evidence
that in those landscapes, which the Celts and the Samnites the Etruscans in the fourth century
wrested from Etruscan Kunstuebung almost no track meets. The Tuscan plastic threw himself first
and foremost at work in clay, copper and gold, which substances rich clay deposits and copper mines
and offering the trade the Etruscan artists. From Schwunghaftigkeit, which the Tonbildnerei was run, witness
the immense masses of relief and statutory boards Work of fired clay, which walls, gables and roofs
of Etruscan temples to Identification of the remaining ruins were once decorated, and the distribution
of such demonstrable Work from Etruria to Lazio. The copper casting was not behind it back.
Etruscan Artists ventured to the making of colossal, up to fifty feet high bronze statue, and Volsinii,
the Etruscan Delphi, to around the year 489 (265) two thousand bronze statues have been, while the
Steinbildnerei in Etruria, as well anywhere else, much later began and restrained except internal
causes by the lack of a suitable material was - the lunensischen (Carrara) Marmorbrueche had not
opened. Who the rich and delicate gold jewelry of the suedetruskischen Graeber has seen that
is the message not incredible find that the Tyrrhenian gold shells themselves were estimated
in Attica. The stone-carving art was, although she is younger, diverse but also in Etruria practiced.
As dependent on the Greeks, by the way the visual artists completely equal, were both in the
outline drawing on metal, as in the monochromatic mural extremely mothods Etruscan artist and painter.
We hereby compare the area of ​​the actual Italians, it seems, first against the Etruscan
abundance almost kunstarm. Alone closer inspection, one can not escape the perception that both the
Sabellian as the Latin nation far more than the Etruscan ability and skill for the art must
have had. Although to really sabelle area in Sabina, in the Abruzzo, Samnium in themselves works of art
are almost not at all lacking, and even coins. Those Sabellian tribes, however, which reached the
coasts of the Tyrrhenian and Ionian seas, have the Hellenic art not only as the Etruscans Externally
acquired, but they more or less fully acclimatized to himself. Even in Velitrae where well alone
Later in the landscape of the erstwhile Volscians whose language and peculiarity is have claimed,
have painted terracotta found by living and peculiar Treatment. Lucania in southern Italy is
indeed a slight degree of Hellenic art been taken, but in Campania, as in the board's land have
Sabellians and Hellenes as in language and nationality so penetrated completely even and especially
in art and especially the Campanian and Bruttian coins are consistent with the simultaneous Greek so
completely on one line of the art treatment that only the words they are of them different.
Less well known but no less certain is it that even well-to Lazio Artistic heritage and the arts crowd,
but not in artistry and Kunstuebung back behind Etruria. Obviously, the at the beginning of
the 5th Century was fixing the Romans in Campania, the transformation of the city of Cales in a
Latin community, the landscape at Falernian Capua, a Roman citizen in the district, first the
Campanian Kunstuebung the Romans open-minded. Although wrong with them not only the luxuriant
in the Etruria kept busy Lapidary art and completely met no trace that the Latin equivalent trades
Etruscan goldsmiths and pottery have been for the work abroad. Although are the Latin temple overloaded
not just with the Etruscan bronze and Tonzierat, the Latin Graeber not like the Etruscan gold
jewelry and was angefuellt the walls that glittered not like the colorful paintings of Etruscan.
But none the less was raised throughout the scale to the benefit of the Etruscan nation. The invention
of the Janus image, which may as the deity of the Latins themselves to be settled is not awkward,
and original way than any of the Etruscan art. The nice group of wolf with the twins probably
leans on similar inventions at Greek, but in this Safe execution if not in Rome, but invented
by Romans, and it is remarkable to occur first on the coined by the Romans in Campania and for
silver coins. In the above mentioned Cales seems soon after its founding a particular genre figured pottery
to have been invented, with the name of the Master and Verfertigungsorts been identified and
widely distributed as far as Etruria is inside. The recently meet on the Esquiline Hill have
come to light figured altars of burnt clay in the arrangement as the ornaments just like the votive
offerings of the Campanian Temple. However this does not exclude that even Greek masters who worked
for Rome. The sculptor Damophilos that with the painted clay figures Gorgasos for the ancient
Temple of Ceres has manufactured, does not seem to have been other than the teacher of Zeuxis,
Philos Demo of Himera (around 300 450). On instructive are those branches of art, in which our part
to old products, is named in part after his own experience a comparative sentence. From Latin works
in stone is little else left but at the end of this period in Doric style carved stone sarcophagus
of the Roman consul Lucius Scipio, but the noble Simplicity ashamed of it all similar Etruscan
works. From the Etruscan tombs are some beautiful old bronze strict art style, including helmets,
lights, etc. Geraetstuecke been raised, but which of these works ranges from the in 458 (296) on ruminal
fig tree in the Roman market from penalties established bronze she-wolf still the most beautiful
ornament of the Capitol? And that the Latin Metallgiesser as little as shrank before the Etruscan great
tasks of proving the Spurius Carvilis (consul 461 293) from the melted Samnite Armory built colossal
Bronze statue of Jupiter on the Capitoline hill, from which the waste when chasing the feet of
the Colossus standing statue of the victor had been able to be cast, you saw this Jupiter image
to the Albanian mountains. belong the cast copper coins by far the most beautiful the southern Lazio
at, the Roman and Umbrian are tolerable, the Etruscan almost imageless and often truly barbaric. The
wall paintings dedicated Gaius Fabius in the 452 302 Temple of welfare in the Capitol executed,
acquired in drawing and coloring, yet the Praise Greek educated critic of the Augustan era, and
there are enthusiasts of the art the Empire probably the caeritischen, but with even greater emphasis
on the Roman, lanuvinischen ardeat and frescoes as masterpieces of painting praised. The drawing
on metal, which in Latium not as in Etruria, the hand mirror, but the Toilettenkaestchen adorned
with their graceful outlines, in Latium was a much smaller scale and almost practiced only in
Praeneste, it is exquisite works of art, see the Etruscan metal mirrors as among the praenestinischen
box, but it was the work of the latter kind, namely is most likely in this era in the workshop
of a master praenestinischen resulting work ^ 13, could be said of the law with that almost no
other product the graph of antiquity as the ficoronische Cista the stamp in a beauty and Characteristic
completed and as yet totally pure and carries serious art in itself. --------------------------------------------------
- ^ 13 Novius Plautius poured perhaps only the feet and the top group, the box itself may derive
from an older artist, but, as the use of these boxes are much limited to Praeneste has little to
anyone other than a praenestinischen. -------------------------------------------------- -
The general stamp of Etruscan art is in part a certain barbaric extravagance in substance as in style,
sometimes the total lack of internal development. Where the Greek champions fugitive outlines
the Etruscan students wasted schuelerhaft the diligence, the Point of light material and the
moderate conditions of Greek works occurs when Etruscan a boastful highlighting the size and costliness,
or merely the strangeness of the work. The Etruscan art can not imitate, without going overboard:
the severity is their hard, soft, the graceful and horror, the monster, the luxuriance the dirty
joke, and it comes out more clearly, the more comes back the originally excited and Etruscan art,
left to their own place. Even more striking is the Adherence to traditional forms and traditional
style. It may be that the initial friendly contact with Etruria here allowed the Greeks to sow the
seeds of the Arts, a later period of hostility, but the younger stages of the Greek Art in Etruria
the entrance difficult, either, more likely that the rapidly occurring mental paralysis of the nation did
the main thing here: the art was in Etruria located on the primitive level at which they are
there with their first penetration had to stand much - obviously this has been the cause, why
the Etruscan Art, which remained undeveloped subsidiary of Hellenic, as long been regarded as the
parent added.
 I was out hunting all one day--"

"You out hunting!" said the lady called Mary.

"And why shouldn't I go out hunting? I'll tell you what, Mrs. Proudie was out hunting too.
But they didn't catch a single fox; and, if you must have the truth, it seemed to me to be
rather slow."

"You were in the wrong division of the county," said the gentleman called Frank.

"Of course I was. When I really want to practise hunting I'll go to Greshamsbury; not a doubt
about that."

"Or to Boxall Hill," said the lady; "you'll find quite as much zeal there as at Greshamsbury."

"And more discretion, you should add," said the gentleman.

"Ha! ha! ha!" laughed Miss Dunstable; "your discretion indeed! But you have not told me a word
about Lady Arabella."

"My mother is quite well," said the gentleman.

"And the doctor? By the by, my dear, I've had such a letter from the doctor; only two days
ago. I'll show it you upstairs to-morrow. But mind, it must be a positive secret. If he goes
on in this way he'll get himself into the Tower, or Coventry, or a blue-book, or some dreadful
place."

"Why; what has he said?"

"Never you mind, Master Frank: I don't mean to show you the letter, you may be sure of that.
But if your wife will swear three times on a poker and tongs that she won't reveal, I'll show
it to her. And so you are quite settled at Boxall Hill, are you?"

"Frank's horses are settled; and the dogs nearly so," said Frank's wife; "but I can't boast
much of anything else yet."

"Well, there's a good time coming. I must go and change my things now. But, Mary, mind you
get near me this evening; I have such a deal to say to you." And then Miss Dunstable marched
out of the room.

All this had been said in so loud a voice that it was, as a matter of course, overheard by
Mark Robarts--that part of the conversation of course I mean which had come from Miss Dunstable.
And then Mark learned that this was young Frank Gresham of Boxall Hill, son of old Mr. Gresham
of Greshamsbury. Frank had lately married a great heiress; a greater heiress, men said, even
than Miss Dunstable; and as the marriage was hardly as yet more than six months old the Barsetshire
world was still full of it.

"The two heiresses seem to be very loving, don't they?" said Mr. Supplehouse. "Birds of a feather
flock together, you know. But they did say some little time ago that young Gresham was to have
married Miss Dunstable herself."

"Miss Dunstable! why, she might almost be his mother," said Mark.

"That makes but little difference. He was obliged to marry money, and I believe there is no
doubt that he did at one time propose to Miss Dunstable."

"I have had a letter from Lufton," Mr. Sowerby said to him the next morning. "He declares that
the delay was all your fault. You were to have told Lady Lufton before he did anything, and
he was waiting to write about it till he heard from you. It seems that you never said a word
to her ladyship on the subject."

"I never did, certainly. My commission from Lufton was to break the matter to her when I found
her in a proper humour for receiving it. If you knew Lady Lufton as well as I do, you would
know that it is not every day that she would be in a humour for such tidings."

"And so I was to be kept waiting indefinitely because you two between you were afraid of an
old woman! However, I have not a word to say against her, and the matter is settled now."

"Has the farm been sold?"

"Not a bit of it. The dowager could not bring her mind to suffer such profanation for the Lufton
acres, and so she sold five thousand pounds out of the funds and sent the money to Lufton as
a present;--sent it to him without saying a word, only hoping that it would suffice for his
wants. I wish I had a mother, I know."

Mark found it impossible at the moment to make any remark upon what had been told him, but
he felt a sudden qualm of conscience and a wish that he was at Framley instead of at Gatherum
Castle at the present moment. He knew a good deal respecting Lady Lufton's income and the manner
in which it was spent. From
the shore, the two had just left, is reduced tremulous light strip into the water beyond it
was when the power would lose in the black flood plains. Now seemed to sound a distant thunder,
which was coming closer, instinctively they both looked after Place where the red lights shone,
trains were rolling with bright windows between iron Bow down, that seemed to suddenly grow out
of the night and be back to sink. The thunder was gradually lost, all was quiet, with only the
wind was in sudden shock.

After a long silence, said Franz, "We should continue."

"Of course," Emma replied softly.

"We should continue," Franz said eagerly, "continued throughout, I
mean ..."

"It's not the point."

"Because we are cowards, Emma, ​​it's not about."

"And my child?"

"He would let you, I am firmly convinced."

"And how," she said softly ... "Running away under cover of darkness?"

"No, absolutely not. You have nothing to do but to tell him simply that you no longer can live with
him because you belong to someone else. "

"Are you all here, Frank?"

"If you want to spare you, I also - I'll tell him myself."

"You will not do, Franz"

He tried to see them, but in the darkness he could no longer notice
than that had raised his head and turned to him.

He was silent for a while.

Then he said quietly: "Do not worry, I will not do it."

They approached the other shore.

"Do you hear anything," she said. "What is it?"

"It comes from over there," he said.

Slowly, it rattled out of the darkness, a small red light floating
towards them; Soon they saw that it came from a small lantern on the
front tongue of a land vehicle was fixed, but they could not see if
the car was loaded and whether people were riding.

Right behind came two identical cars.

In the past they were a man in peasant costume , Perceive the just
lit his pipe.

The cars drove past. Then they heard again nothing but the dull sound of the cab, the twenty steps
further rolled slowly behind them. Now the bridge fell slightly against the other bank. They saw
the street in front of them ran between trees further into the darkness.

Right and left of them were in the depths of the Floodplains; they
saw as into chasms.

After a long silence, Franz said suddenly: "Well the last time ..."

"What?" Emma asked in a concerned tone.

"- That we're together. Stay with him. I'll tell you adieu. "

"Are you speaking seriously?"

"Absolutely."

"You see that you are the one who always spoils the few hours that we have, but I can not"

"Yes, yes, you're right," said Franz, "Come, we go back."

She took his arm firmly. "No," said she gently, "now I will not. I let not to send away so. "

She pulled him to himself and kissed him long. "Where would we be, she asked," if we lead us
further and further? "

"There it goes directly to Prague, my child."

"So far not," she said smiling, "but also a bit more because, if you will." She pointed into
the darkness.

"Hey, cabby," cried the French heard nothing.

Francis screamed, "Hold it!"

The car drove on and on. Franz ran after him. Now he saw that the
driver fell asleep.

By violent yelling woke him to Franz. "We drive a little further - the straight Street - you understand
me? "

"Is' All right, sir ..."

Emma got in, after her French coach, the bargain struck with the whip furiously flew the horses
on the soggy street. But the two were in the car fixed today embraced as the car she threw back and
forth.

"Is not that pretty," Emma whispered close to his mouth.

At that moment she felt as a sudden the car would fly into the air - she was thrown out, wanted to
cling to something, reached into space, and it seemed to her that they turn at breakneck Speed ​​in
a circle, so that she had to close his eyes - and suddenly felt they
are on the floor, and a huge heavy silence fell, as if they far would
be of the world and completely lonely.

Then she heard different from each other: noise of horse hooves that
struck very close to them on the floor, a whimper, but see they could
not.

Now they took a great fear, she cried, her anxiety was even greater,
because they did not hear their cry.

She suddenly knew exactly what had happened: the car had reached something, probably to one
of the milestones that had overturned, and they were rushing out. Where is he? was her next thought.
She called his name.

And they listened to call, very quietly, but they sounded.

There was no answer. She tried to rise. She succeeded so far that they came to sit on the floor,
and when she reaching out with his hands, they felt a human body beside him. And now she was also
the dark with her eyes to penetrate. Franz stood beside her, motionless.

She touched the outstretched Hand his face, she felt something wet
and warm flowing over it.

Her breathing stopped. Blood ...? What had happened? Francis was wounded and unconscious. And
the driver - where was he? She called after him. No answer.

She still sat on the floor.

I am nothing happen, she thought, although she felt pain in every limb. What am I only do what
I just ... it is not possible for me nothing has happened. "Franz,"
she said.

A voice answered, very close, "Where are S ', then, gnä' Fraulein,
where is sir?

It's nothing g'schehn? Wait S ', Miss, - I only set fire to the lantern,
that what we see; i know net what Polybackwards the staples of today.

I am net debt, my soul ... into a heap Schoder be s' in, the darn
horses.

"

Emma had, but it hurt all the members, erect complete, and that the Kutscher nothing had happened,
she made a little quieter.

She heard the man's lantern flap opened sticks and string anrieb. Terrified, she waited for
the light.

You did not dare Franz touching again that lay before her on the ground, she thought: if you can
not see, everything seems terrible, and he certainly has his eyes
open ... there will be nothing.

A glimmer of light came from the side. You suddenly saw the car, but to their surprise the
not lay on the floor, but only obliquely to the road ditch was found,
as would be a wheel broke.

The horses were standing perfectly still. The light approached, they saw the Slip slide gradually
over a milestone, on the gravel pile in the trench, then He crawled to his feet Francis, slid
over his body, his face lit up and stayed to rest. The driver had placed the lantern on the
floor, just next to your head the footwall. Emma sat down on his knees, and it was her when her
heart stopped beating on how they saw the face. It was pale, his eyes half open, so that only
the White saw of them. From the right temple slowly strips blood trickled down the cheek and
lost under the collar at the neck. In the lower lip, the teeth were bitten. "It is not even possible,
"said Emma to herself.

Even the coach had knelt down and stared at the face. Then he grabbed with both hands his head and
lifted him up. "What do you do?" Emma cried in a choked voice, and was startled prior to that
head, which seemed to sit up independently.

»Gnä 'Fraulein, I think that's happened since a big accident."

"It is not true," said Emma. "It can not be. Because what has happened to you? And me ... "

The driver was the head of the motionless again drop slowly, - in the lap of Emma's, the trembling.
"If only who would you ... if only the Bauersleut fifteen minutes' come along later would ...
"

"What do we do?" Emma said with trembling lips.

"Yes, Miss, when the car would break net ... But as it is now zug'richt
... We wait wait, to come, "He spoke further, without Emma comprehended
his words.; But while it seemed as if it came to his senses, and she
knew what to do.

"How far is up to the nearest houses," she said.

"That can not much, Miss, there is is the same Franz Josef Land ... We should have the houses
To see if it would be light, in five minutes would have to be there. "

"They go out. I stay there, you get people. "

"Yes, Miss, I think almost, it's sensibly, I'll stay with you there - can not do it take so long to
come, it is after all the national route, and - "

"There's too late is, there it may be too late. We need a doctor. "

The driver looked at the face of the motionless, then he looked at Emma, ​​shaking her head.

"That you can not know," - said Emma, ​​"and I can not."

"Yes, Miss ... but where find 'i as a' Doctor in the Franz Josef Land? "

"So from there is anyone in the city and -"

"Fraulein know what's! I imagine that there will perhaps have a telephone. As might We make phone
calls to the ambulance service. "

"Yes, that's the best! Just go, run, for heaven's sake! And people bring with ... And ... 'Do
you pray, go only what you doing there? "

The driver looked into his pale face, which now rested on Emma's lap. "Aid Society, Doctor, will
not profit much. "

"Go! For God's sake! Go! "

"I go already - that S 'just not get scared, Miss, as in the darkness And he ran quickly. continue
on the road. "I can not help it, my soul," he muttered to himself. "Is also an idea in the
middle of the night on the streets of Empire ... "

Emma was alone with the motionless on the dark street. "What now?" She thought. It is but not
possible ... that it kept going through my head ... it is not possible. - It was her suddenly
as she heard her breathing next to him. She bent down to the pale Lips. No, from there came no
breath. The blood on his temple and cheeks seemed to be dried. She stared at the eyes, the
broken eyes, and trembled together. Yes why I think it not because - it is certainly ... this
is death! And she shuddered. She only felt more: a dead man. I and one dead, the dead man on
my lap. And advanced with trembling hands they head away so that he came to lie on the floor.
And only now got a feeling terrible loneliness about her. Why they had sent away the coachman?
What a Nonsense! What should she start there on the road with the dead man alone? When people
Come ... Yes, what should she do when people come? How long they will have to wait here? And she
looked again at the dead. I am not alone with him, she remembered. The light is there for. And
it seemed to her as if something of this light love and kindness, which they would like to
thank would. There was more life in this small flame in order than in the whole wide night they,
yes, it was her almost as if her this light, protection against the pale terrible man lying next
to her on the floor ... And they saw the light so long, until her eyes flickered, dancing until it started.
And suddenly she felt as if she awoke. She jumped on! It's not, that's impossible, you may find
me not here, but with him ... She felt as if seeing now even in the street, at their feet the
dead and the light, and she looked as she stood in a strange size into the darkness. What
am I waiting, she thought, and pursued their thoughts ... What am I waiting? To the people? - What
do I need for that? People will come and ask ... and I ... what am I then here? All will wonder
who I am. What should I answer? Nothing. No words are I am talking about when they are silent,
I will. No word ... they can not force me, yes.

Voices came from far away.

Already? she thought. She listened anxiously. The voices came from the bridge. This could not
be the people who had taken the coachman. But whoever they were - at least they will notice
the light - and could not be, then it was discovered.

And they came to the foot of the lantern. The extinguished. Now she was in deep darkness. Nothing
they saw. Also they no longer saw him. Only the white gravel piles shone a little. The voices
came closer. She started the whole body tremble. be found not only here. For heaven's sake,
that's the only important thing, only this and nothing else on it comes to - she is lost when
a person learns that she's mistress ... You folds his hands convulsively. She prays that the
people pass by on the other side of the road may, without noticing.
She listens. Yes, over there ... What they are talking about it? ...
There are two women or three. You may have noticed the car because
they are talking about something like this, words can . Distinguish
A car ... fallen ... what they say? You can not understand it. Go
on ... they are over ... Thank God! And now what? Oh, why is they
are not dead as he? He is to be envied, for he is all over ... For
him there is no All risk and no fear. But she trembles much. She fears
that they find here that they will ask: who are you ...? That it must
to the police, that all men It will learn that her husband - that
her child -

And she does not understand that it is so long already
stood rooted to the ... You can going away, so they no benefit here,
and they bring themselves into trouble. And it makes a Step ... Carefully
... they must pass through the ditch ... over ... a step up - Oh,
he's so shallow! - And two more steps until it is in the middle of
the road ... and Then she stands still for a moment, sees before him
and may make the gray road in the dark inside track. There - there
is the city. You can not see anything of it ... but the direction
it is clear. Once again, she turns around. It's not so dark. You can
the car very well see, the horse ... and if it is a bit much, she
notices something like the outlines of a human body lying on the floor.
She tears her eyes wide, she is as she held back a little here ...
The dead man is the one who wants to keep here and they dread his
power ... But they forcibly frees himself, and now she remembers:
the soil is too wet, she is on the slippery road, and the wet dust
it not omitted. But now it goes ... go faster ... running ... and
continue from there ... back ... in the light, the noise, man! The
road she walks along, holding the dress high in order not to fall.
The wind is her in the back, it's as if he drives it forward. You
do not know right from what she flees. She's like them against the
pale man would have to flee, which is there, far behind her, next
to the ditch ... then it falls one, so that they will escape the living
who are right there and they are looking for. What will they think?
Will you not to? But you can not overtake them, they is still the
same at the bridge, she has a big lead, and when the danger passed.
One can imagine not know who she is, no soul can guess who the woman
with that Man has passed the national highway. The driver does not
know he will not Recognize when he later sees. We will take care not
about who they was. Who goes there? - It's very clever that she has
not stayed there, it is not common. Franz himself would have given
her right. She must go home, she has a child, she has a man, she would
be lost if they had been found there for her dead lover. There is
the bridge, the road seems brighter ... already rushing water as she
hears the earlier, it is where they walked with him arm in arm - when
- when? How many hours ago? It may not be long. Not long? Perhaps!
Maybe she was unconscious for a long time, maybe it's midnight already,
maybe even close the morning, and she is at home already missed. No,
no, that's not possible, they know that they did not unconscious was,
she recalls now more accurate than the first moment, as they fell
out of the car and has been equally aware of everything. It runs over
the bridge and hear her steps halls. It does not look right and left.
Now she noticed how her meets a figure. She moderates her steps. Who
can that be, who approaches her? There is someone in uniform. She
walks very slowly. You may not notice. She thinks to remember that
the man sight fixed on it holds. If he asks? It is next to him, recognizes
the uniform, it is a security guard, she walks past him. She hears
that he stopped behind her is. With difficulty she considers herself
back from running again, it would be suspicious. It goes always as
slow as before. She hears the tinkle of the horse railway. It may
still long not midnight. Now she goes back more quickly, they hurried
towards the town, whose Lights she looks forward to shine even under
the railway bridge at the exit of the road, the muted noise they already
believe to be heard. Only the lonely road, and then the redeemed.
Now she hears from afar shrill whistles, more shrill, ever closer,
a Car whizzes past her. Instinctively, she stops and looks at him.
It is the Car of the Rescue Society. She knows where it goes. How
fast! she thinks ... It is like magic. For a moment it is as if they
would call after the people, as they would with, as they would again
go back where they came - a moment she packs a tremendous shame, as
they never felt, and they know that they were cowards and poor is.
But as they fade away the roles and whistles are also heard, is a
wild joy about them, and how they rescued rushes forward. People you
meet, and has no Afraid of them - the hardest thing is over. The noise
of the city is clearly more It is lighter in front of her, she already
sees the houses line the street Prater, and it is her as they are
expected there by a flood of people in which they may disappear without
trace.

"Your grace will find the security quite sufficient," said Mr. Fothergill; "but nevertheless
it would be a good match."

"Very good," said the duke. And then it became Mr. Fothergill's duty to see that Mr. Sowerby
and Miss Dunstable became man and wife as speedily as possible. Some of the party, who were
more wide awake than others, declared that he had made the offer; others, that he was just
going to do so; and one very knowing lady went so far at one time as to say that he was making
it at that moment. Bets also were laid as to the lady's answer, as to the terms of the settlement,
and as to the period of the marriage--of all which poor Miss Dunstable of course knew nothing.
Mr. Sowerby, in spite of the publicity of his proceedings, proceeded in the matter very well.
He said little about it to those who joked with him, but carried on the fight with what best
knowledge he had in such matters. But so much it is given to us to declare with certainty,
that he had not proposed on the evening previous to the morning fixed for the departure of
Mark Robarts. During the last two days Mr. Sowerby's intimacy with Mark had grown warmer and
warmer. He had talked to the vicar confidentially about the doings of these bigwigs now present
at the castle, as though there were no other guest there with whom he could speak in so free
a manner. He confided, it seemed, much more in Mark than in his brother-in-law, Harold Smith,
or in any of his brother members of Parliament, and had altogether opened his heart to him
in this affair of his anticipated marriage. Now Mr. Sowerby was a man of mark in the world,
and all this flattered our young clergyman not a little. On that evening before Robarts went
away Sowerby asked him to come up into his bedroom when the whole party was breaking up, and
there got him into an easy chair, while he, Sowerby, walked up and down the room.

"You can hardly tell, my dear fellow," said he, "the state of nervous anxiety in which this
puts me."

"Why don't you ask her and have done with it? She seems to me to be fond of your society."

"Ah, it is not that only; there are wheels within wheels:" and then he walked once or twice
up and down the room, during which Mark thought that he might as well go to bed.

"Not that I mind telling you everything," said Sowerby. "I am infernally hard up for a little
ready money just at the present moment. It may be, and indeed I think it will be, the case
that I shall be ruined in this matter for the want of it."

"Could not Harold Smith give it you?"

"Ha, ha, ha! you don't know Harold Smith. Did you ever hear of his lending a man a shilling
in his life."

"Or Supplehouse?"

"Lord love you! You see me and Supplehouse together here, and he comes and stays at my house,
and all that; but Supplehouse and I are no friends. Look you here, Mark--I would do more for
your little finger than for his whole hand, including the pen which he holds in it. Fothergill
indeed might--but then I know Fothergill is pressed himself at the present moment. It is deuced
hard, isn't it? I must give up the whole game if I can't put my hand upon £400 within the next
two days."

"Ask her for it, herself."

"What, the woman I wish to marry! No, Mark, I'm not quite come to that. I would sooner lose
her than that." Mark sat silent, gazing at the fire and wishing that he was in his own bedroom.
He had an idea that Mr. Sowerby wished him to produce this £400, and he knew also that he had
not £400 in the world, and that if he had he would be acting very foolishly to give it to Mr.
Sowerby. But nevertheless he felt half fascinated by the man, and half afraid of him.

"Lufton owes it to me to do more than this," continued Mr. Sowerby, "but then Lufton is not here."

"Why, he has just paid five thousand pounds for you."

"Paid five thousand pounds for me! Indeed he has done no such thing: not a sixpence of it came
into my hands. Believe me, Mark, you don't know the whole of that yet. Not that I mean to say
a word against Lufton. He is the soul of honour; though so deucedly dilatory in money matters.
He thought he was right all through that affair, but no man was ever so confoundedly wrong.
Why, don't you remember that that was the very view you took of it yourself?"

"I remember saying that I thought he was mistaken."

"Of course he was mistaken. And dearly the mistake cost me; I had to make good the money for
two or three years. And my property is not like his--I wish it were."

"Marry Miss Dunstable, and that will set it all right for you."

"Ah! so I would if I had this money. At any rate I would bring it to the point. Now, I tell
you what, Mark, if you'll assist me at this strait I'll never forget it. From This, is something

Narrative

Johanna Spyri

1. Chapter

All against a

If you climb the Seelisberg from the back, you get to a fresh, green Meadow. You get half a mind,
there to mingle with the peacefully grazing animals and to taste and even a little bit of that nice,
soft grass. The clean, well-fed Cows pull sweet ringing back and forth. Because each carries her
bell on the neck, so one always ends where it is. Thus, no cow unnoticed there run out the
of Shrubs covered rock face, is about the hinunterstuerzen they could. It is also a pack of boys
there, which might already be eight. But the bells are still necessary and sound so friendly back and
forth, that no one would like to do without. On the hillside are now and then separates the small,
wooden houses, and often next to a noisy foaming creek through the valley. 'Mountain slope'
it is said up here and rightly so, not because one of the little house is on level ground. It's
as if they were somehow thrown out on the mountain and since been haengengeblieben. You do not
understand how they built it up there on the hillside could be. From way down they all look the same
kind and friendly with the open Galleries and the small, wooden stairs
at the house.

But by walking up and come into their Close, we see that is a big difference between them. The
very first two on the hillside in the nearby area from quite different. They are not far apart,
and between they attacked the biggest mountain stream in the area, the foaming flood down stream.

On
the first little houses were also the most beautiful summer days, all the small windows are tightly
closed, and the only air that penetrated into it came through the holes of the broken Slices.
But that was not much, because the holes were again glued to paper, so indoors in the winter freeze
did not have to. On the wooden podium were all the stages half broken off. And the gallery had disintegrated
so that it was a miracle that all the small children, who slipped there and stumbled, not arms
and legs broke. They had However, all healthy limbs, but quite messy. The children were all
covered with dirt, and her hair had never seen a comb. Four of the little one crawled Day
long since over, and returned in the evening along with four older
children.

Three strong boys and a girl who looked not very clean and tidy, but still a little better than
the kids. Because they could still wash it himself.

Over There The little house across the creek had a very different character. Since it looked
down before the small staircase so clean and tidy look as is the ground a very different than
over there. The steps always looked as if they were just scrubbed. And in the gallery were
three beautiful Nelkenstoecke and fragrant all summer long into the window. One of the small, bright windows
open, and let the beautiful, sunny mountain air start. There was usually sit an even strong-looking
woman To see with beautiful white hair that she brushed back very neatly under the black cap had.
They habitually patched on a Maennerhemd of coarse, strong cloth, which always washing was clean.
The woman herself did in her simple dress as neat and clean out,
as if never been unclean at them. It was Vizenze wife, mother the
young herdsmen, the merry Franz Anton with strong arms. As to my going to Framley, that's out of the question. Her
ladyship would look for my tail, and swear that she smelt brimstone. By-bye, old fellow!"

The German student when he first made his bargain with the devil felt an indescribable attraction
to his new friend; and such was the case now with Robarts. He shook Sowerby's hand very warmly,
said that he hoped he should meet him soon somewhere, and professed himself specially anxious
to hear how that affair with the lady came off. As he had made his bargain--as he had undertaken
to pay nearly half a year's income for his dear friend--ought he not to have as much value
as possible for his money? If the dear friendship of this flash member of Parliament did not
represent that value, what else did do so? But then he felt, or fancied that he felt, that
Mr. Sowerby did not care for him so much this morning as he had done on the previous evening. Not without intention were therefore preferably the most expensive
War effort on the Latin or Latin federated communities rolled, the Navy for the most part by
the Greek cities maintained and Ross the service of the allies, later at least three times
stronger relationship dressed as the Roman citizenship, while in the infantry of the old saying
that the allies quota probably not more numerous than the citizens army, long time at least as a rule in Power remained.
The system by which this construction in detail the assembled and held together Ward, leaves
out the few messages have come down to us no longer notice. Self the Zahlenverhaeltnis, in which the
three classes of subjection to one another and to the Full citizenship is no longer standing, and
to determine approximate ^ 13 and also the geographical distribution of each category over Italy
only imperfectly known. The this underlying structure leading ideas are so openly before, however,
that there is little needed is to develop it even more. Above all was, as I said, the immediate
Circle of the ruling community in part by settlement of the full citizens, in part by award of
passive citizenship will take extended as far as was possible without the Roman community,
but that was a town and should remain, to decentralize fully. When the Inkorporationssystem up
to and perhaps even extended over its natural boundaries were compelled to continue envolved communities
fit into a Untertaenigkeitsverhaeltnis; because pure hegemony as a lasting relationship is
intrinsically impossible. It turned to not by arbitrary monopolization of power, but by the
inevitable Focus of the conditions of the ruling class in addition to the mayor, the second of the
subjects. were the means of domination in the first place of course, the division of the ruled
by blowing up the Italian confederacies and establishment of the widest possible Number of
relatively small communities, and the gradation of the pressure of the rule according to the different
categories of subjects. As Cato in his home regiment then saw that the slaves would like each other
not too well tolerated, and deliberate discord and factions among them, nursed, it was the
Roman community at large, the agent was not pretty, but effective. Just another application
of the same agent, it was, if in each dependent communities along the lines of the Constitution
and a converted Roman Regiment of the wealthy and respected families was used, which with the amount
in a natural, more or less lively and substantive opposition stood by its and local economic interests
regiment was forced to base on Rome itself. The most remarkable example in this respect, granting
the treatment of Capua, which, as Italic is the only city that could possibly rival to Rome,
from house treated with caution appears to be suspicious. It gave the Campanian Adel privileged
jurisdiction, separate Versammlungsplaetze at all, in every Ways a special case, so we showed
him not even inconsiderable Pensions - sixteen hundred each of annually staters 450 (200 pounds)
- to the Campanian town of cash. This Campanian knights were there, that non-participation
in the great Latin-Campanian Insurrection 414 (340) for its failure contributed substantially
and their valiant swords in 459 (295) for at Sentinum decided the Romans, whereas in the Campanian
infantry Rhegion The first troupe was dropped in the Pyrrhic wars of Rome. Another remarkable
Evidence of the Roman practice: the staendischen disputes within the dependent communities favored by
the aristocracy for exploiting the Roman interest, gives the treatment, the Volsinii in 489
(265) happened to. It must there, as in Rome, the old and New citizens are faced in a legal
manner and the latter's political Equality has been obtained. As a result, the faces of old bourgeois
Volsinii at the Roman Senate with the request for restoration of the old Constitution, which in
the City ruling party understandably considered as treason and the petitioners for the statutory
penalty moved. The Roman Senate was, however, for the old bourgeois party and left, as the city does
not willingly said, not only by military execution recognized efficacy in the existing Constitution
of town Volsinii destroy, but by the demolition of the ancient capital of Etruria, the ruling
class of Rome, the Italians in an example of horrific clarity set. -------------------------------------------------
^ 13 It is regrettable that we do not have enough information about the Zahlenverhaeltnisse
to are able to give. One can for the number of weapons the later Roman citizens Koenig time estimated
at approximately 20000th But now, of Alba's case up to the conquest Veii was not the immediate
Mark Roman significantly reinforced; making it perfect matches that of the first device of the
twenty-first district in the year 259 (495), in which no, or at least no major expansion of the
Roman frontier, was to were not built to the year 367 (387) new citizens districts. While one
can now also increase by the excess of births over the deaths, through immigration and releases
still so bring plenty of attack, yet it is absolutely impossible, close to the Boundaries of an area of ​​30 square
miles, hardly the traditional census figures in agreement to bring under which the number of
weapons-Roman citizens in the second half of the third century 104000-150000 varies, and in the
year 362 (392), for which an isolated reference available, was 152 573. Rather, these numbers
with the 84 700 Citizens of the Servian census are in line and just about all except the four of
Servius Tullius lustra up behind and equipped with ample number of older Census list are nothing
but one of those seemingly documentary traditions, just across detailed figures like himself
and betrayed. It was not until the second half of the fourth century begin the big territorial
gains, making the role of citizens suddenly and had significantly increased. It is delivered believable
as credible in itself, that by 416 (338), there were 165,000 Roman citizens, to which it agrees
quite well that ten Years before, when they called Gaul against Lazio and the whole militia to arms, the
first Array of ten legions, which amounted to 50,000 men. Since the major territorial expansion
in Etruria Lazio and Campania were counted in the fifth century, an average of 250,000, immediately
before the first Punic war 280000-290000 weapons-citizens. These figures are sure enough, but
another reason not completely historically useful: it namely, the likely full Roman citizens
and not, as the Campanian in own legions serving "citizens without a voice", such as the Caeriten,
together expected, but while the latter are in fact quite the subjects included counts must
(Roman studies, vol 2, p. 396). -------------------------------------------------- - But the
Roman Senate was wise enough not to be overlooked that the only means of Tyranny giving period, the
moderation of those in power is their own. So was the left dependent communities the autonomy
or lent to a shadow of independence, its own share of Rome's military and political successes
and, above all, a free Communal Constitution joined in - as far as the Italic Confederation, there
was no Helotengemeinde. That is why Rome declined from the start with a perhaps in the history unprecedented
clarity and generosity on the most dangerous of all Government rights to the right to tax the
subjects. Maximum dependent Celtic districts like Tribute have been given, as far as the Italic
Confederation enough, there was no interest-bearing community. So at last, the conscription although
probably with the subjects, but not by the ruling abgewaelzt citizenship, but rather was probably
the latter in accordance relationship far stronger than the alliance and in this probably taken
in turn all the Latins by far more widely available than the non-Latin League communities,
so that it had some equity for themselves, although from the war profits initially Rome and according
to him, the best part Latinerschaft took for himself. The difficult task over the mass of the
Italian admitting subject Communities to survey and control to protect themselves, suffice
it to Roman central administration partly by the four Italian Police Headquarters, and partly by the
expansion of the Roman censorship through which all dependent cities. The Flottenquaestoren had
next to their next raising task and by the newfound wealth and the domain plus the new Allies
to control, they were the first Roman officials, which by law Headquarters and district outside Rome
was instructed and formed between the Roman Senate and the Italian communities the necessary
appeal. It had also, as the later Munizipalverfassung shows in every community, the Italian
^ 14 Oberbehoerde as always hot liked, every fourth or fifth year pre-estimation, a device
be expected to stimulate the necessary needs of Rome and which had only the purpose can have,
with the corresponding Roman censorship to the Senate the overview of the military and preserve the
entire Steuerfaehigkeit Italy. ------------------------------------------------- ^ 14 Not only
in every Latin: for the censorship or the so-called Quinquennalitaet is known that, even in
those communities, their constitution not by Latin Scheme is constituted. With -------------------------------------------------
This military-administrative Agreement of all this side of the Apennines down to the promontory
and the Straits Iapygischen Rhegion of living tribes of finally hangs well as the emergence
of a new, them all the common name together, the "men of the toga," which the oldest constitutional Roman,
or the Italians, the Greeks originally what the customary ones then generally become viable
designation. The various nations that these landscapes have inhabited, like probably first felt
as a unit and together partly in the opposition against the Hellenes, in part, and especially in
the defense of the Community Celts, because even a well liked Italian community to this community
against Rome Thing to make and use the opportunity to regain the independence, then broke but
the length necessary to the healthy national feeling safe path. As the "Gallic Acker until later
time than the legal opposition of the Italian appears, so are the been "men of the toga," so
named in contrast to the Celtic "Hosenmaennern (bracati); and probably has even with the centralization
of the Italian defense system in the hands Rome's defense against the Celtic invasions, both
as a cause as a pretext an important role played. While the Romans were mostly in the great national
struggle to the top, sometimes the Etruscans, Latins, Sabellians, Apulian and Greeks within the boundaries
to be designated immediately evenly compelled to fight under their banners, received by that
time and the swaying more inward unit closed and constitutional strength and the name was Italia,
Greek originally, and still among the writers of the fifth century, For example, in Aristotle, Calabria is only today,
all over the country the Togatraeger. The oldest borders of this great Swiss owner of Rome military
cooperative or the new Italian range on the western littoral to the area of ​​Livorno below
Arnus of ^ 15, on the eastern to the above Aesis Ancona and the outside of these boundaries
lying villages colonized by Italians, as Sena gallica and beyond Ariminum the Apennines, Messana
in Sicily were, even if, as Ariminum, members of the Confederation or even, as Sena, Roman citizens
were local, but as a geographically outside Italy located. Still less could the Celtic districts
of the Apennines, although perhaps now some of them in the clientele of Rome, there were, given
the counts Togamaennern be. The new Italy was thus a political entity has become, but it was also
in the course, become a national. Already had the dominant Latin nationality the Sabine and
Volscians assimilated and some Latin communities scattered over all Italy; It was only the development
of these germs that later every one to pay the Latin Officers also skirt the Latin language,
mother tongue was. But that the Romans already realized that goal clearly shows the usual extension
of the Latin name on the add whole subject Italic alliance ^ 16 As always great from this political
construction can be seen yet, it speaks of the great political minds of his nameless architect,
and the unusual strength which made them so many and such diverse Confederation of the assembled
components later proven under the most severe collisions added, expressed their great work on the
seal of success. Since then, the strings of this so converged fine as to be looped network throughout
Italy in the hands of the Roman community, This was a great power and was instead Tarentum, Lucania
and the other by the last Wars from the series of political powers and deleted using small
states in the system the countries of the Mediterranean. As if the official recognition of
his new position Rome received by the two formal missions, created in 481 (273) of Alexandria
again went to Rome and from Rome to Alexandria, and even if they initially only trade links
regulated, but no doubt already prepared a political confederacy. As with Carthage the Egyptian
government to Cyrene level and struggle sometimes with the Roman in Sicily, should Sun Macedonia
fought with those determined for the influence in Greece, forthcoming with this for control of the Adriatic
coasts, it was inevitable that the new struggles, which everywhere were preparing together engaged
and that in Rome as the mistress of Italy the wide circle was drawn, the victories of Alexander
the Great and his drafts Successors had staked out the playground. -------------------------------------------------
^ 15 The oldest call is probably the limit of two small towns ad fines, one of which north of
Arezzo on the road to Florence, the second on the coast was near Livorno. A little further south
of the latter stream and valley still called Vada fiume della fine now, valle della fine (Targioni
Tozzetti, Viaggi. Vol 4, p. 430). ^ 16 In Business executives precise use of language, however
this does not happen. The full name The Italians found in the agrarian law of 643 (111), line 21:
[ceivis] Romanus sociumve nominisve Latini quibus ex formula togatorum [milites in terra Italia
imperare solent], as well there is a distinction from line 29 of Latinus peregrinus and it
says the Senate decision about the Bacchanalia of 568 (186): ne quis ceivis nominis Latini neve
neve Romanus socium quisquam. But in the ordinary use of these three elements is very frequently the second
or the third addition to the Romans left out and soon only those Latini nominis, sometimes only
the socii thought (W. Weissenborn to Liv. 22, 50, 6), with no distinction in meaning would
be. Homines nominis Latini The term ac socii Italici (Sall. Iug. 40), as correctly it is in itself, is the
official language of the alien probably a Italia, but not Italici knows. -----------------------------------------------
8th Chapter law, religion, Military affairs, economics, nationality in the development, which during
this period the law within the Roman community was given, is probably the most important material
Renewal of the peculiar customs control, which the community itself and to a minor Grade their agents
began to exercise over the individual citizens. The seed for this is be sought in the rights of the officials,
because of irregularities Vermoegensbussen (multa) of . Recognize For all buses of more than
two sheep and 30 cattle, or after decision by municipal was the year 324 (430), livestock buses
converted into money, were of more than 3020 Libralassen (218 pounds), came soon after the expulsion
of the kings of the decision by way of provocation to the community, and it was thus the fracture
procedure originally quite foreign to him Weight. let the vague notion of the offense to anything
you wanted to bring and reach the higher levels of Vermoegensbussen everything you wanted,
it was a mitigation, which reveals the seriousness of this process far more arbitrary than eliminated,
that these Vermoegensbussen, where they found no law to a certain sum were to reach the half
of the assets forming fined not allowed. In this Group includes the police already laws on
which the Roman community since the earliest times was over-reaching: the provisions of the Twelve
Tables, which the anointing of the corpse by hired People who are taking home more than a lake
and more than three purple ceiling and occupied of gold and waving garlands, the use of processed wood
to the stake, the incense and sprinkling of the same prohibited with frankincense and myrrh in
wine, which Number of Floetenblaeser in the funeral be limited to ten limited and the mourners
and prohibited the Begraebnisgelage - in a sense, the oldest Roman sumptuary laws; also which emerged
from the struggles staendischen laws against usury, both as against use of the upper common
pasture and disproportionate appropriation of domain-okkupablem. Wide concern, but when these
and similar break laws that at least the Kontravention and often the sentence once and for all
was formulated, the general right of a all visible to the jurisdiction provided officers for
misdemeanor and a fine, if they reached the provocation of the Mass and fined not fit into
the sentence, to bring the matter to the community. Even during the fifth century in this
Ways because of immoral lifestyle of both men as women, because of grain growth, Magic and
similar things have been moved as it were criminal. In inward kinship with this is also the time
in this emerging quasi jurisdiction of the censors, which establish its authority, the Roman
budget and the mayor lists used, partly to hang on its own luxury taxes, which differed from the
luxury of penalties only in form to some particularly objectionable about the ad through the
reprehensible acts of the citizens policy and political rights to reduce or withdraw.
 And here, looking into the squire's
face, one might have thought that his heart fell a little also; for he had not so full a command
of his feelings as his brother-in-law, who had been so much more before the world. To John,
the assistant private secretary, was left a legacy of a thousand pounds; and to Jane and Lucy
certain sums in certain four per cents., which were quite sufficient to add an efficient value
to the hands of those young ladies in the eyes of most prudent young would-be Benedicts. Over
and beyond this there was nothing but the furniture, which he desired might be sold, and the
proceeds divided among them all. It might come to sixty or seventy pounds a piece, and pay
the expenses incidental on his death. And then all men and women there and thereabouts said
that old Dr. Robarts had done well. His life had been good and prosperous, and his will was
just. And Mark, among others, so declared--and was so convinced in spite of his own little
disappointment. And on the third morning after the reading of the will Squire Crowdy, of Creamclotted
Hall, altogether got over his grief, and said that it was all right. And then it was decided
that Jane should go home with him--for there was a brother squire who, it was thought, might
have an eye to Jane;--and Lucy, the younger, should be taken to Framley parsonage. In a fortnight
from the receipt of that letter Mark arrived at his own house with his sister Lucy under his wing.

All this interfered greatly with Mark's wise resolution as to the Sowerby-bill incubus. In
the first place, he could not get to Barchester as soon as he had intended, and then an idea
came across him that possibly it might be well that he should borrow the money of his brother
John, explaining the circumstances, of course, and paying him due interest. But he had not
liked to broach the subject when they were there in Exeter, standing, as it were, over their
father's grave, and so the matter was postponed. There was still ample time for arrangement
before the bill would come due, and he would not tell Fanny till he had made up his mind what
that arrangement would be. It would kill her, he said to himself over and over again, were
he to tell her of it without being able to tell her also that the means of liquidating the
debt were to be forthcoming.

And now I must say a word about Lucy Robarts. If one might only go on without those descriptions
how pleasant it would all be! But Lucy Robarts has to play a forward part in this little drama,
and those who care for such matters must be made to understand something of her form and likeness.
When last we mentioned her as appearing, though not in any prominent position, at her brother's
wedding, she was only sixteen; but now, at the time of her father's death, somewhat over two
years having since elapsed, she was nearly nineteen. Laying aside for the sake of clearness
that indefinite term of girl--for girls are girls from the age of three up to forty-three,
if not previously married--dropping that generic word, we may say that then, at that wedding
of her brother, she was a child; and now, at the death of her father, she was a woman. Nothing,
perhaps, adds so much to womanhood, turns the child so quickly into a woman, as such death-bed
scenes as these. Hitherto but little had fallen to Lucy to do in the way of woman's duties.
Of money transactions she had known nothing, beyond a jocose attempt to make her annual allowance
of twenty-five pounds cover all her personal wants--an attempt which was made jocose by the
loving bounty of her father. Her sister, who was three years her elder--for John came in between
them--had managed the house; that is, she had made the tea and talked to the house-keeper about
the dinners. But Lucy had sat at her father's elbow, had read to him of evenings when he went
to sleep, had brought him his slippers and looked after the comforts of his easy chair. All
this she had done as a child; but when she stood at the coffin head, and knelt at the coffin
side, then she was a woman.

She was smaller in stature than either of her three sisters, to all of whom had been acceded
the praise of being fine women--a eulogy which the people of Exeter, looking back at the elder
sisters, and the general remembrance of them which pervaded the city, were not willing to extend
to Lucy. "Dear--dear!" had been said of her; "poor Lucy is not like a Robarts at all; is she,
now, Mrs. Pole?"--for as the daughters had become fine women, so had the sons grown into stalwart
men. And then Mrs. Pole had answered: "Not a bit; is she, now? Only think what Blanche was
at her age. But she has fine eyes, for all that; and they do say she is the cleverest of them
all." And that, too, is so true a description of her that I do not know that I can add much
to it. She was not like Blanche; for Blanche had a bright complexion, and a fine neck, and
a noble bust, et vera incessu patuit Dea--a true goddess, that is, as far as the eye went.
She had a grand idea, moreover, of an apple-pie, and had not reigned eighteen months at Creamclotted
Hall before she knew all the mysteries of pigs and milk, and most of those appertaining to
cider and green cheese.

Lucy had no neck at all worth speaking of,--no neck, I mean, that ever produced eloquence;
she was brown, too, and had addicted herself in nowise, as she undoubtedly should have done,
to larder utility. In regard to the neck and colour, poor girl, she could not help herself;
but in that other respect she must be held as having wasted her opportunities. But then what
eyes she had! Mrs. Pole was right there. They flashed upon you, not always softly; indeed not
often softly if you were a stranger to her; but whether softly or savagely, with a brilliancy
that dazzled you as you looked at them. And who shall say of what colour they were? Green,
probably, for most eyes are green--green or grey, if green be thought uncomely for an eye-colour.
But it was not their colour, but their fire, which struck one with such surprise.

Lucy Robarts was thoroughly a brunette. Sometimes the dark tint of her cheek was exquisitely
rich and lovely, and the fringes of her eyes were long and soft, and her small teeth, which
one so seldom saw, were white as pearls, and her hair, though short, was beautifully soft--by
no means black, but yet of so dark a shade of brown. Blanche, too, was noted for fine teeth.
They were white and regular and lofty as a new row of houses in a French city. But then when
she laughed she was all teeth; as she was all neck when she sat at the piano. But Lucy's teeth!--it
was only now and again, when in some sudden burst of wonder she would sit for a moment with
her lips apart, that the fine finished lines and dainty pearl-white colour of that perfect
set of ivory could be seen. Mrs. Pole would have said a word of her teeth also, but that to
her they had never been made visible. "But they do say that she is the cleverest of them all,"
Mrs. Pole had added, very properly. The people of Exeter had expressed such an opinion, and
had been quite just in doing so. I do not know how it happens, but it always does happen, that
everybody in every small town knows which is the brightest-witted in every family. In this
respect Mrs. Pole had only expressed public opinion, and public opinion was right. Lucy Robarts
was blessed with an intelligence keener than that of her brothers or sisters.

"To tell the truth, Mark, I admire Lucy more than I do Blanche." This had been said by Mrs.
Robarts within a few hours of her having assumed that name. "She's not a beauty, I know, but
yet I do."

"My dearest Fanny!" Mark had answered in a tone of surprise.

"I do then; of course people won't think so; but I never seem to care about regular beauties.
Perhaps I envy them too much." What Mark said next need not be repeated, but everybody may
be sure that it contained some gross flattery for his young bride. He remembered this, however,
and had always called Lucy his wife's pet. Neither of the sisters had since that been at Framley;
and though Fanny had spent a week at Exeter on the occasion of Blanche's marriage, it could
hardly be said that she was very intimate with them. Nevertheless, when it became expedient
that one of them should go to Framley, the remembrance of what his wife had said immediately
induced Mark to make the offer to Lucy; and Jane, who was of a kindred soul with Blanche, was
delighted to go to Creamclotted Hall. The acres of Heavybed House, down in that fat Totnes
country, adjoined those of Creamclotted Hall, and Heavybed House still wanted a mistress.

Fanny was delighted when the news reached her. It would of course be proper that one of his
sisters should live with Mark under their present circumstances, and she was happy to think
that that quiet little bright-eyed creature was to come and nestle with her under the same
roof. The children should so love her--only not quite so much as they loved mamma; and the
snug little room that looks out over the porch, in which the chimney never smokes, should be
made ready for her; and she should be allowed her share of driving the pony--which was a great
sacrifice of self on the part of Mrs. Robarts--and Lady Lufton's best good-will should be bespoken.
In fact, Lucy was not unfortunate in the destination that was laid out for her. Lady Lufton
had of course heard of the doctor's death, and had sent all manner of kind messages to Mark,
advising him not to hurry home by any means until everything was settled at Exeter. And then
she was told of the new-comer that was expected in the parish. Only the great
myths Stesichorus converter (122-201 632-553) led to its 'destruction of Ilium' the Aeneas in
the West Country to the mythical world of his birth and his adopted country, Sicily and In Italy,
by contrast, the Trojan hero against the Hellenic poetically enrich. From him since then stir
in the fixed poetic outline ago this fable, including the group of heroes, as with the wife and
son and the old, the Hausgoetter bearing father from the burning of that goes Ilion, and the
important identification the Trojans with the Sicilian and Italian autochthonous, which especially
in the Trojan Trumpeter Misenos, the eponymos Misen of the promontory, stands out clearly already
^ 7 The old poet derived the feeling that the Italian barbarians the Greeks less far as the
other stands and poetically the relationship of the Greeks and the Italians appropriate to the
Homeric Achaeans and Trojans could be taken immediately. Soon mixed is because this new Troerfabel
with the older Odysseussage by both further spread over Italy. After Hellanikos (wrote about
350 400) were Odysseus and Aeneas the Thracian and molottische (Epirots) landscape to Italy,
where the entrained Trojan women burn the ships, and Aeneas founded the city of Rome and, after
the Name of this Trojan Women designate; similar, but less sense, Aristotle told (370-432 384-322)
that an Achaean, on the Latin coast squadron sly were due by the Trojan from the descendants
of slaves and thus to stay here compelled Achaean men and women of the Trojan Latins were formed.
This mixed as well, elements of the local legend, of which the busy traffic between Sicily
and Italy, at least towards the end of this period the customer has to Sicily had spread, in
the version of Roman origin, which the Sicilians Callias by 465 (289) recorded are Odysseus,
Aeneas and flowed into one another Romulusfabeln ^ 8 But the real culmination of the later version
of the familiar is Troerwanderung Timaeus Tauromenion of Sicily, his history of 492 (262) closed.
He is just in case the Aeneas first Lavinium with the sanctuary of the Trojan JOHNSON and
only then founded Rome; he must also have the Tyrerin Elisa Dido or have been woven into the
Aeneassage, since he is the founder of Carthage Dido and hot Rome and Carthage in the same
year he built. The impetus for these new tasks, in addition to the just at the time and in
the place where Timaeus wrote, prepare crisis between the Romans and Carthaginians, apparently
some Sicily came reports of Latin customs and traditions; but essentially the narrative can
not heruebergenommen of Lazio, but only their own worthless his invention of the old hag collection
"was. Timaeus had of the ancient temple of Hausgoetter tell in Lavinium hear, but that the Lavinaten
than those made by the Aeneiaden Ilion brought JOHNSON would apply, he has been thrown in as
safe of his own, as the astute Parallel between the Roman October horse and the Trojan Horse
and the exact inventory lavine the shrines - they were saying, the worthy Gewaehrsmann, Heroldstaebe
of iron and copper and a clay pot Trojan factory! Of course just the Johnsons were allowed to Centuries
later be seen by any means, but Timaeus was one of the historians, nothing about the decision as
precisely as know about unknowable things. Advised not to unduly Polybius, who knew the man to trust him
anywhere, least of all, however, where - as here - Rely on documentary Beweisstuecke. In fact, the Sicilian
rhetorician, of the to show the grave of Thucydides in Italy knew and found no higher praise for
Alexander, faster than that he was finished with Asia than Isocrates with his 'eulogy', completely
called to knead out the naive poetry of the older time the wilderness porridge, which the game of chance
has given such a strange celebrity. -------------------------------------------------- - ^ 7
The Trojan colonies "in Sicily, Thucydides, Pseudoskylax call and others, and the name of Capua
be as a Trojan foundation for Hekataeos on Stesichorus and go back to the identification of
the Italian and Sicilian natives with the Trojans. ^ 8 married him after a woman fled from Troy
to Rome, Rome, or rather their same daughter to the king of the Aborigines Latinos and bore him three
sons, Romo, Romylos and Telegonus. The last person without a doubt here as a founder of Tusculum
and Praeneste occurs, we know belongs to the Odysseussage. -------------------------------------------------- Extent
to which the Hellenic storytelling about Ital things as they initially in Sicily has emerged
already been included in Italy itself, is not to determine with certainty. The connection with
the Odyssean circle, which later in the founding legends of Tusculum Praeneste, Antium, Ardea, Cortona
will meet, probably angesponnen even at this time have, and also the belief in the descent of
the Romans from the Trojans or Trojan women had already fixed at the end of this period in Rome,
since the first recorded contact between Rome and the Greek East to the use of the Senate for the
"kindred" in Ilier Years 472 (282). But that nevertheless the Aeneasfabel in Italy is relatively young,
proves its comparison with the very meager Odyssean localization, and the final editing these
stories and their adjustment to the Roman origin legend heard on any Case only the ensuing period of.
Thus, while among the Hellenes, the writing of history, or what was named, tried to the history of
Italy in their way, they left in a for the lower state of Hellenic history as well be designated
as sensitive for us As the simultaneous Italic history are almost complete. Hardly that Theopompus
Chios (closed 418 336) of the capture of Rome by the Celts thought casually and Aristotle,
Kleitarchos, Theophrastus, Heraclides of Pontus (about 450 † 300) individual events related
to Rome occasionally mentioned; only with Hieronymus of Cardia, who as a historian of Pyrrhus
Italic is also its wars told by Greek historiography source at the same time for the Roman history. In the
sciences, received the jurisprudence an invaluable Basis by the recording of the town law in the
years 303, 304 (451, 450). This under the name of the Twelve Tables Weistum known is probably
the oldest Roman document which giving the name of a book deserves. Not much younger like the
core of the so-called "royal Laws "are, that is certain, preferably sacred rules that are based on tradition
and probably by the college of pontiffs, that the legislation is not known but authorized to transfer
law was under the form of royal decrees to general customer were brought. In addition, probably since
the beginning of this period if not the primary, then at least the most important Senatsbeschluesse
regularly recorded in writing been, as, in their storage mitgestritten already in the earliest
struggles staendischen was. So while the mass of written legal documents multiplied presented,
the Foundations of a proper law is determined. Both the annually changing Officials singled out as
the jury of the people there was need for informed Men able to contact who knew the right
path and to precedents or give reasons for their absence, a decision by the hand did. The pontiffs,
who had been used, both because of the court because of all the days as Goetterverehrung concerns
as addressed by the people and the acts to be admitted in other Right points at the request advices
and opinions from, and designed in the lap of her College tradition, the Roman civil law is
based, above all the formulas the right action for each case. A mirror, all these actions summarized
together with a calendar that indicated the Day of Judgement was at 450 (300) Appius Claudius
or of the writer Gnaeus Flavius ​​made known to the people. However, this attempt, which in
to formulate self-conscious science is not, for a long time to utter few there. The fact that the customer
of the law and the legal transfer was a way right now, the people are to recommend and achieve
Staatsaemtern is understandable, even if the narrative that the first plebeian pontifex Publius
Sempronius Sophus (consul 450 304) and the first plebeian Tiberius chief pontiff Coruncanius (consul
474 280), these priests in honor of their legal knowledge owed, rather conjecture is later than
tradition. That the real Genesis Latin and probably the other Italic languages ​​falls before this
period and very beginning of the Latin language is essentially the same was done, show the course
through their semi-oral tradition greatly modernized Bruchstuecke of the Twelve Tables, which
probably a number of obsolete words and harsher compounds, especially due to the omission the
indefinite subject, but not, as the Arvalied, substantial difficulties understanding of the present
and far more with the language of Cato than that of the old litanies . Convention When the Romans
in the beginning of the seventh century had difficulty in documents understanding of the fifth,
it was without doubt only the fact that at that time in Rome no actual research, the least was
an instrument of research. In contrast, at this time the beginning of the legal instructions and laws
of the Roman business and editorial style first have found themselves, who, at least in its developed
form, at fixed Formulas and phrases, endless list of details and lengthy periods of the current
English language of the courts and not give in to the initiated by sharpness and precision recommended,
while not understanding the layman to the nature and mood of awe, impatience or anger listening.
Also began in this period, the rational treatment of the indigenous languages. To the top of the
same threat as we saw the Sabellian as the Latin idiom is to Barbarisi and attacked the slurring
of the endings, the stupor of the vowels and the finer similar to consonants, as in the fifth and
sixth century AD within the Romance languages. But against this was a reaction to the Oscan the
collapsed sounds d and r, in Latin, the collapsed sounds g and k divorced and each provided with
its own character, o and u, for which the Oscan had been lacking alphabet from house to separate
the characters and in Latin, although originally were divorced, but threatened to collapse came apart
again, even in the Oscan i will even be dissolved in two different characters phonetically
and graphically, and finally closes the spelling of the debate again in more detail, such as when
the Romans varied s was replaced by r. The chronological trail leads for this reaction to the
fifth Century, the Latin g, for example, was around the year 300 (450) yet, but around the
year 500 (250) exist, the first of the Papir sex, are instead Papirius Papisius called the consul
of 418 (336) was, that the introduction of r instead of s is the Appius Claudius, censor 442 (312)
attached. Without doubt is the Zurueckfuehrung a finer and sharper debate in connection with the increasing
influence of Greek Civilization, which is precisely in this period, noticeable in all areas of the Italian
system makes, and how the silver coins of Capua and Nola more perfect than the simultaneous Aces
of Ardea and Rome, seems also written and spoken language more quickly and completely safe in
the Campanian countryside have regulated than in Lazio. How little, despite the fact facing Muehe
the Roman language and spelling even at the end of this period was found prove the obtained from the
late fifth century inscriptions, in which particular in the reduction or elimination of m, d and
s and n in final In initial position, and the distinction the vowels and an ou the largest
arbitrariness prevails ^ 9, it is likely that the same the Sabellians herein were already further,
while the Umbrian of the regenerating Hellenic Influence has been only slightly touched. --------------------------------------------------
--- ^ 9 In the two grave writings of Lucius Scipio, consul 456 (298), and the same consul from
the year 495 (259) m and d are missing in the final position of the inflections on a regular basis,
but found and once again Luciom Gnaivod, it stands next to each other in the nominative and Cornelio
filios; cosol, cesor and consol censor, Aidil, dedet, ploirume (= plurimi), HEC (nom sing) next
aidilis, CEPIT, Quei, hic. The Rhotazismus is already fully implemented it will duonoro (=
bonorum), ploirume, not like the songs saliarischen foedesum, plusima. Our epigraphic Remains sufficient
at all do not generally have ascended the Rhotazismus; of the older s only meet individual
tracks, as will later honos, labos find honor and laboratory and the women's first names similar
Maio (Maio, maior) and Mino on newly found grave fonts of Praeneste. --------------------------------------------------
- This increase jurisprudence and grammar must also elementary school teachers, which in itself probably
already emerged earlier, a certain increase was learned. Like Homer, the oldest Greek, the Twelve
Tables, the oldest Roman book were so were both in their homeland essential foundation of education
and memorization of the legal-political catechism a center piece of the Roman parenting. In
addition to the Latin "writing masters" (litteratores) It was natural, since the news of the
Greek state and for each trader needs was also a Greek language teacher (grammatici ^ 10), partly
Hofmeister slaves, some private teacher, in their home or in the student's statement to read and speak
the Greek granted. That, as in military affairs and the police so also with the teaching of Stock
played its role, of course by itself ^ 11 The elementary level, however, the lessons this time have
not yet increased and there was no any significant social variation between the taught and not
taught Roemer. That the Romans in the mathematical and have excellent mechanical sciences at any
time, is known and proven also for the present era in which almost single fact, which certainly
can be moved here, the attempted regulation of the decemvirs the calendar.


There was once a people in some land--and they may be still there for what I know--who thought
it sacrilegious to stay the course of a raging fire. If a house were being burned, burn it
must, even though there were facilities for saving it. For who would dare to interfere with
the course of the god? Our idea of sorrow is much the same. We think it wicked, or at any rate
heartless, to put it out. If a man's wife be dead, he should go about lugubrious, with long
face, for at least two years, or perhaps with full length for eighteen months, decreasing gradually
during the other six. If he be a man who can quench his sorrow--put out his fire as it were--in
less time than that, let him at any rate not show his power!

"Yes: I remember him," continued Lord Lufton. "He came twice to Framley while I was a boy,
consulting with my mother about Mark and myself,--whether the Eton floggings were not more
efficacious than those at Harrow. He was very kind to me, foreboding all manner of good things
on my behalf."

"He was very kind to every one," said Lucy.

"I should think he would have been--a kind, good, genial man--just the man to be adored by
his own family."

"Exactly; and so he was. I do not remember that I ever heard an unkind word from him, There
was not a harsh tone in his voice. And he was generous as the day." Lucy, we have said, was
not generally demonstrative, but now, on this subject, and with this absolute stranger, she
became almost eloquent.

"I do not wonder that you should feel his loss, Miss Robarts."

"Oh, I do feel it. Mark is the best of brothers, and, as for Fanny, she is too kind and too
good to me. But I had always been specially my father's friend. For the last year or two we
had lived so much together!"

"He was an old man when he died, was he not?"

"Just seventy, my lord."

"Ah, then he was old. My mother is only fifty, and we sometimes call her the old woman. Do
you think she looks older than that? We all say that she makes herself out to be so much more
ancient than she need do."

"Lady Lufton does not dress young."

"That is it. She never has, in my memory. She always used to wear black when I first recollect
her. She has given that up now; but she is still very sombre; is she not?"

"I do not like ladies to dress very young, that is, ladies of--of--"

"Ladies of fifty, we will say?"

"Very well; ladies of fifty, if you like it."

"Then I am sure you will like my mother." 1, p. 140; RCD
1, p. 23). In a wider sense, the designation of marine Hadriatischen first finds in the so-called
Skylax by 418 of the city (336). -------------------------------------------------- ------ This rapid collapse
of the Etruscan sea power would be inexplicable if not against the Etruscans at the very time
when the Sicilian Greeks attacked them at sea, even would have to land on all sides like the
heaviest blows. Around the time of slaughter was of Salamis, Himera and Kyme, the reports of the
Roman annals, according, between Rome Veii and a vieljaehriger and violent war led (271-280
483-474). The Romans suffered in the same heavy defeats, remained in the memory of the catastrophe
of the Fabians (277 477), the result of internal crises voluntarily exiled from the capital
and the defense the boundary between Etruria had taken over, but here the brook Cremera to the last weapons-men
were cut down. But the cease-fire to 400 months, instead of Peace to war quit, fell to the Romans
from far cheaper than it has at least the status quo of the monarchy restored, and the Etruscans
gave up and Fidenae on the right bank of the Tiber won district. There is no telling how far
this Roman-Etruscan War with the Hellenic-Persian and the Sicilian-Carthaginian in immediate
connection stood, but like the Romans, the allies of the victors of Salamis and Himera been To be or not, the
interests of what the impacts met in any case. As the Latins threw the Samnites to the Etruscans,
and no sooner was the establishment of Campania been cut off by the impact of the meeting at
Kyme from the mother country, as they already was no longer able to resist the attacks of
Sabellian Bergvoelker. The capital Capua was 330 (424) and the Tuscan population was here soon
after the conquest of the Samnites exterminated or driven away. Of course, also had the Campanian
Greeks, isolated and weakened, suffering under the same heavy invasion; Kyme itself was 334 (420)
the Sabellians conquered. Nevertheless, the Greeks argued, especially in Neapolis, perhaps with
the aid of the Syracusans, while the Etruscan name disappears from history in Campania; little
that individual Etruscan towns and lost a miserable existence there permanent. But even more
momentous events occurred around the same time in northern Italy one. A new nation was knocking
at the gates of the Alps: it was the Celts, and their first Crowds hit the Etruscans. The Celtic, or Gaulish
and Galatian nation from the Community Facilities received a different mother than the Italic,
Germanic and the Hellenic sister. It lacks in some clever and even more shiny Properties of the
deep moral and political system to which all the best and Grosse human development is based.
It was, says Cicero, as a disgrace for the free Celts, the field order with their own hands.
To agriculture, they moved the pastoral life before and drove himself in the fertile Po Valley,
preferably the pig from which Flesh of their flocks and nourishing in the oak woods with them
day and night lingering. The attachment to their own soil, as it is the Italians and the Germans
own, missing among the Celts, while they love to settle in the cities and spots along and
those with them earlier, it seems, than in Italy won extent and importance have. Their civil constitution
is imperfect, not only is the national unity represented only by a weak band, which even initially
in the same way by all nations applies, but there is a lack in the individual communities in harmony
and strength regiment serious consequences of citizenship and right struts. The only systems
to which they send to the military, to decrease in the bonds of discipline to the individual
serious difficulty to conquer yourself. "The salient features of the Celtic race," says her Historian
Thierry, "are the personal bravery, in which they allow all peoples zuvortun, a free, stormy,
meaning each available external impression; much intelligence, but In addition, the highly mobile,
lack of stamina, reluctance to discipline and order, Boastfulness and eternal discord, the
result of the boundless vanity. "Shorter says approximately the same old Cato, "two things give
the Celts a lot: on the fencing and the Esprit "^ 3 Such characteristics of good soldiers and bad
citizens explain the historical have the fact that the Celts shaken all States and not founded.
Everywhere find we are ready to migrate, that is to march, the plot, the household effects
preferring everything else but the gold, the arms plant operators as child predators being or
even as Crafts for wages and with such success, however, that even the Roman historian Sallustius
weapons plant in the Celtic concedes the price before the Romans. It is the right Lanz slaves
of antiquity, such as representing the images and descriptions, they are: big, not sinewy
body, with shaggy hair and long mustache - quite in contrast to Greeks and Romans, which is the main
and upper lip shaved - in colorful embroidered robes, the not infrequently been thrown in the fight,
with the wide gold ring around his neck, unbehelmt and without throwing weapons of any kind, but therefore
with immense shield in addition to the long schlechtgestaehlten Sword, a dagger and a spear,
all these weapons adorned with gold, as for the metals not awkward to edit understood. To boast is
everything, even the wound, which is often extended subsequently to flaunt the wider gash. Usually
challenge them on foot, some flocks but also on horseback, then where every two likewise outdoors
Mounted Squires follow; chariots found early as the Libyans and the Greeks in ancient times. Many
a train reminiscent of the knights of the Middle Ages, mostly to the the Romans and Greeks strange
custom of the duel. Not only in war, they used the single enemy, after they had previously
scorned him with words and gestures, to fight to demand, even in peace they fought against each other
in shining armor to life and Death. The fact that the drinking session afterwards not missing,
of course. It allowed them under their own or a foreign flag of a restless life of a soldier,
she of Ireland and Spain to Asia Minor scattered among so-called constant struggles and exploits,
but what they also began to melted away like snow in spring, and nowhere is a great state, never its
own culture has been created by them. -------------------------------------------------- -----
^ 3 Pleraque Gallia duas res industriosissime persequitur: rem militares et argute loqui. (Cato
or. frg. 2, 2). -------------------------------------------------- ----- So we describe the This
ancient nation, about their origin can only speculate. Sprung from the same womb, emerged from
the Hellenic, Italian and Germanic tribes of, are The Celts certainly equal to that eastern
indented from the mother country in Europe where they lived in earlier times, the West Sea in
what is now France and their headquarters well grounded ^ 4, to the north over northern Britain settled
on the islands to the south border and the Pyrenees with the Iberian tribes of the possession
of the peninsula wringing. On the Alps, however, her first big walk and flows past the first
of the Western Countries, they started out in small amounts and in the opposite direction of
those trains, it over the Alps and the Haemus, even over the Bosphorus and carries it to the Horror
of all civilized nations of antiquity and become by some centuries still are, to Caesar and
the victory of Augustus ordered their border defense force forever broke. --------------------------------------------------
------ ^ 4 Lately has been asserted by expert linguists, that the relationship between the Celts
and the Italians was closer even than that of the latter and the Greeks, which means that
the person Large branch of the tree from which the Western and Southern tribes of Indo-European
Strain have arisen first in Greek and Italian Celts and much later the latter's resettlement
divided Italians and Celts. Geographically, this Up very acceptable, and the present historical
facts are perhaps so also in line as to bring what previously regarded as civilization graecoitalische
WAS, justifiably graecokeltoitalisch may have been - we know about the oldest Celtic culture
stage, in fact, nothing. The linguistic investigation seems, however, not yet have gone so far
that their results are classified under the oldest Voelkergeschichte be expected. --------------------------------------------------
----- The local hiking legend which, especially Livy has given us, tells of these later retrograde
trains follows ^ 5 The Gallic Confederation, headed by then and still to Caesars Time of the
canton of the Bituriges (to Bourges) have stood under the king Ambiatus two large Heeresschwaerme
sending, by the two nephews of the king, and it was one of them, Sigovesus, over the Rhine in
the direction of the Black Forest advanced to the second, Bellovesus, Graischen over the Alps (the
Little St. Bernard) descended into the valley of the Po. From that Gallic tribe, the establishment
of the middle Danube, the oldest of the Celtic Settlement in today's Lombardy, the canton
of the Insubres with its capital Mediolanum (Milan). Soon a second swarm was followed, the district
of the Cenomanian to the cities Brixia (Brescia) and had justified Verona. It flowed incessantly
from then over the Alps in the beautiful flat country, the Celtic tribes, including the Ligurian
of them bloated and carried away wrested from the Etruscans one place after another until the
whole left bank of the Po in their hands was. After the fall of the rich Etruscan Melpum (probably
in the neighborhood of Milan), to the conquest, the already united in the Po valley vinegars ansa Celts
with newest tribes had (358? 396), the latter went over to the right bank of the river and began
to harass the Umbrian and Etruscan in its ancient seats. These were mainly the supposedly on a
different road, across the mountain Poeninischen (Great St. Bernard) in Italy invaded Boii, they settled
in today's Romagna, where the ancient Etruscan city Felsina, renamed Bononia by the new masters,
their capital was. Finally came the Senones, the last major Celtic tribe that is over the Alpine
passes, and he took his seat at the Coast of the Adriatic from Rimini to Ancona. But individual
clusters Celtic settlers even have to deep into it to Umbria, even to the point of actual Etruria
be penetrated, because even at Todi on the upper Tiber have stone scripts in Celtic Language found.
Moved closer and closer to the north and east borders of Etruria together, and in the middle of the
fourth century saw the Tuscan nation already much restricted to be the area that has since
borne her name and still wears. ------------------------------------------- ^ 5 The saga over deliver
Livy ( 5, 34) and Iustin (24, 4) and Caesar (Gal 6, 24) they had in mind. However, the linkage of
migration Bellovesus of the founding of Massilia, so that chronologically the middle of the second
century of the city belongs is determined, no doubt the local, of course the timeless legend of, but
the later chronologisierenden research and deserves no faith. Unique invasions and migrations may
have taken place very early; But the enormous spread of the Celts in Northern Italy can not
before the time of sinking the Etruscan power, ie not before the second half of the third
century City are set. Similarly, after the judicious execution of Wickham and Cramer, not to doubt that
the train of Bellovesus as that of Hannibal over the Cottian Alps (Mont Genèvre) and through the territory
of taurine, but about the Graischen (the little ones St. Bernard) and went through the Salassi,
the name of the mountain are not well Livy According to the legend, but according to his presumption
of. Whether the result of a genuine Italian Boii Sagenreminiszenz or only because of an assumed
connection with the north of the Danube resident Boii through the eastern pass of the Alps Poeninischen
be led, must remain undecided. ------------------------------------------------- In such as
Community engagement to attacks of various peoples, the Syracusans, Latins, Samnites and broke especially
the Celts just been so great and so sudden Lazio and Campania and Italian seas on both pervasive
Etruscan Nation even more violent and sudden formation. The loss of command, getting a grip the
Campanian Etruscans belonged to the same period when the Insubres Cenomani and the Po established
themselves, and just went around this time, the previously Porsena few decades deeply humiliated
and almost enslaved Roman citizenship first against attacking Etruria before. The truce with
Veii 280 (474) they had regained the lost and restored substantially the state as at the time
of the kings between two nations had passed. When he in 309 (445) expired, but the feud began
again new, but there were border skirmishes and Beutezuege that for both parties without any substantial
result ran. Etruria was still too powerful because, as that Rome would have a serious attack
can take. Only the decrease in Fidenates, which expelled the Roman occupation, the envoys killed
and the king of Veienter, Lars Tolumnius subdued, led a more important war, which expired happy for
the Romans: the king Tolumnius fell in the battle of the hands of the Roman Consul Aulus Cornelius
Cossus (326? 428), Fidenae was taken and 329 (425) signed a new contract down to 200 months.
While the same increased distress Etruria more and more and were close to the Celtic Weapons have
so far been spared the settlements on the right bank of the Po. When the cease-fire had expired
end 346 (408), the Romans decided to also turn into a war of conquest against Etruria, which was
now led not only against but to Veii. The story the war against the Veienter, Capenate and
Faliscans Veiis and the siege, the same the Trojan ten years should have granted, little is
certified. have forecast and seal the possession of these events, and rightly, for here was
fought with unprecedented up to that An unprecedented effort to fight up to that price. It was
the first time that a Roman Army summer and winter, year after year in the field, remained stuck
until the specified target achieved was, for the first time that the church paid from state
funds pay the levy. But it was also the first time that the Romans attempted to submit to a foreign
nation coming and their weapons over hinuebertrugen the old northern boundary of the Latin landscape.
The fight was enormous, the outcome hardly in doubt. The Romans found support among the Latins
and Hernik, which welcomes the fall of the dreaded neighbors hardly less and promotion granted
as the Romans themselves, while leaving his nation of Veii standing and only the next towns,
Capena, Falerii also Tarquinii him influx contributed. The simultaneous attacks by the Celts would
this non-participation of northern communities explain itself enough, however, it is told and
there is no reason to doubt it, that first internal party divisions in the Etruscan Staedtebund,
including the opposition the aristocratic governments of other cities against the maintained by the
Veientern or restored Koenig regiment, that inaction of the rest Etruscans brought have. Had
the Etruscan nation can participate in the fight or do so would the Roman town have been barely
able to undeveloped at the former Hoechst Poliorcetics gigantic task of defeating a large and strong
city to end to lead, but few leave and as she was, subject to the city (358 396) to brave Resistance
to the persevering spirit of the hero Marcus Furius Camillus, who first his people the gleaming orbit
of the foreign conquests had opened. From the cheers that the great success aroused in Rome, is an echo
of the propagated in the Festival Rome until late times Custom of "Veienterverkaufs" where
placed for auction under the parody Beutestuecken the worst-old cripple, could find the one
in purple and gold jewelry Decision made as "King of the Veienter. The city was destroyed to the
ground curse eternal Desolation. Falerii Capena and hastened to make peace, the mighty Volsinii that
in bundesmaessiger Indecision during Veiis agony had rested, and reached for taking up arms, condescended
After a few years (363 391) is also to peace. It may be a sad saga that the two pre Auer of
the Etruscan nation, Melpum and Veii, the same day that the Celts, the Romans of this subject,
but it is definitely in her a deep historical Truth. The double attack from the north and south
and the case of the two parties was marginal the beginning of the end of the great Etruscan nation.
However a moment it seemed as , the two tribes of, through their interaction Etruria in its existence
Rub looked threatened, but among themselves and also of Rome's newly prosperous powerful the
foreign barbarians are trampled.

And then there was music. Lucy neither played nor sang; Fanny did both, and for an amateur
did both well. Griselda did not sing, but she played; and did so in a manner that showed that
neither her own labour nor her father's money had been spared in her instruction. Lord Lufton
sang also, a little, and Captain Culpepper a very little; so that they got up a concert among
them. In the meantime the doctor and Mark stood talking together on the rug before the fire;
the two mothers sat contented, watching the billings and the cooings of their offspring--and
Lucy sat alone, turning over the leaves of a book of pictures. She made up her mind fully,
then and there, that she was quite unfitted by disposition for such work as this. She cared
for no one, and no one cared for her. Well, she must go through with it now; but another time
she would know better. With her own book and a fireside she never felt herself to be miserable
as she was now. She had turned her back to the music for she was sick of seeing Lord Lufton
watch the artistic motion of Miss Grantly's fingers, and was sitting at a small table as far
away from the piano as a long room would permit, when she was suddenly roused from a reverie
of self-reproach by a voice close behind her: "Miss Robarts," said the voice, "why have you
cut us all?" and Lucy felt that, though she heard the words plainly, nobody else did. Lord
Lufton was now speaking to her as he had before spoken to Miss Grantly.

"I don't play, my lord," said Lucy, "nor yet sing."

"That would have made your company so much more valuable to us, for we are terribly badly off
for listeners. Perhaps you don't like music?"

"I do like it,--sometimes very much."

"And when are the sometimes? But we shall find it all out in time. We shall have unravelled
all your mysteries, and read all your riddles by--when shall I say?--by the end of the winter.
Shall we not?"

"I do not know that I have got any mysteries."

"Oh, but you have! It is very mysterious in you to come and sit here--with your back to us all--"

"Oh, Lord Lufton; if I have done wrong--!" and poor Lucy almost started from her chair, and
a deep flush came across her dark cheek.

"No--no; you have done no wrong. I was only joking. It is we who have done wrong in leaving
you to yourself--you who are the greatest stranger among us."

"I have been very well, thank you. I don't care about being left alone. I have always been
used to it."

"Ah! but we must break you of the habit. We won't allow you to make a hermit of yourself. But
the truth is, Miss Robarts, you don't know us yet, and therefore you are not quite happy among us."

"Oh! yes, I am; you are all very good to me."

"You must let us be good to you. At any rate, you must let me be so. You know, don't you, that
Mark and I have been dear friends since we were seven years old. His wife has been my sister's
dearest friend almost as long; and now that you are with them, you must be a dear friend too.
You won't refuse the offer, will you?"

"Oh, no," she said, quite in a whisper; and, indeed, she could hardly raise her voice above
a whisper, fearing that tears would fall from her tell-tale eyes.

"Dr. and Mrs. Grantly will have gone in a couple of days, and then we must get you down here.
Miss Grantly is to remain for Christmas, and you two must become bosom friends." Lucy smiled,
and tried to look pleased, but she felt that she and Griselda Grantly could never be bosom
friends--could never have anything in common between them. She felt sure that Griselda despised
her, little, brown, plain, and unimportant as she was. She herself could not despise Griselda
in turn; indeed she could not but admire Miss Grantly's great beauty and dignity of demeanour;
but she knew that she could never love her. It is hardly possible that the proud-hearted should
love those who despise them; and Lucy Robarts was very proud-hearted.

"Don't you think she is very handsome?" said Lord Lufton.

"Oh, very," said Lucy. "Nobody can doubt that."

"Ludovic," said Lady Lufton--not quite approving of her son's remaining so long at the back
of Lucy's chair--"won't you give us another song? Mrs. Robarts and Miss Grantly are still at
the piano."

"I have sung away all that I knew, mother. There's Culpepper has not had a chance yet. He has
got to give us his dream--how he 'dreamt that he dwelt in marble halls!'"

"I sang that an hour ago," said the captain, not over-pleased.

"But you certainly have not told us how 'your little lovers came!'" The captain, however, would
not sing any more. And then the party was broken up, and the Robartses went home to their parsonage.

CHAPTER XII

The Little Bill

Lucy, during those last fifteen minutes of her sojourn in the Framley Court drawing-room, somewhat
modified the very strong opinion she had before formed as to her unfitness for such society.
It was very pleasant sitting there in that easy chair, while Lord Lufton stood at the back
of it saying nice, soft, good-natured words to her. She was sure that in a little time she
could feel a true friendship for him, and that she could do so without any risk of falling
in love with him. But then she had a glimmering of an idea that such a friendship would be
open to all manner of remarks, and would hardly be compatible with the world's ordinary ways.
At any rate it would be pleasant to be at Framley Court, if he would come and occasionally
notice her. But she did not admit to herself that such a visit would be intolerable if his
whole time were devoted to Griselda Grantly. She neither admitted it, nor thought it; but nevertheless,
in a strange unconscious way, such a feeling did find entrance in her bosom. And then the Christmas
holidays passed away. How much of this enjoyment fell to her share, and how much of this suffering
she endured, we will not attempt accurately to describe. Miss Grantly remained at Framley Court
up to Twelfth Night, and the Robartses also spent most of the season at the house. Lady Lufton,
no doubt, had hoped that everything might have been arranged on this occasion in accordance
with her wishes, but such had not been the case. Lord Lufton had evidently admired Miss Grantly
very much: indeed, he had said so to his mother half a dozen times; but it may almost be questioned
whether the pleasure Lady Lufton derived from this was not more than neutralized by an opinion
he once put forward that Griselda Grantly wanted some of the fire of Lucy Robarts. And the
damn storm.

He put the collar up, and went quickly up and down. The lantern windows rattled. "Another half
an hour," he said to himself, "then I can go. Ah - I was almost . It would be so far-"He stopped
at the corner, where he had a view of both roads, of which could
come from it.

Yes, today they will come, he thought as he held his hat, which threatened to fly away. - Friday
- Meeting of the teaching staff - because they dare to continue and may even be longer ... Fail
He heard the tinkle of the horse track, and now began the bell of the to ring close Nepomuk Church.
The road was busy. There were more people passed by him, mostly, it seemed to him, officials from
the shops which were closed at seven. All decreased rapidly and were with the storm, which
made it difficult to walk, conceived in a kind of battle. No one noticed him, and only a few
shop girl looked with mild curiosity at him. - Suddenly he saw a
familiar figure approaching rapidly.

He hastened to meet her. Without a car? he thought. If it's?

It was, when she became aware of him, she quickened her steps.

"You come on foot," he said.

"I've already sent off the car at the Karl Theatre.

I think I've ever used same driver drove. "

A gentleman walked past them and looked at the lady volatile.

The young man fixed him sharp, almost threateningly, the Lord moved
on quickly.

The lady looked after him.

"Who was it?" Asked they fear.

"I do not know him.

There are no friends, was quite calm. - But now you must come quickly;
We want to start.

"

"Is this your car?"

"Yes."

"An open?"

"An hour ago it was so beautiful."

They went in haste, and the young woman a rose.

"Coachman," cried the young man

"Where is he?" Asked the young woman.

Francis looked around. "This is unbelievable," he said, the guy "is not visible."

"For God's sake," she cried softly.

"Wait a minute, child, and he is certainly there."

The young man opened the door to the little inn, at a table with a
few other People sat the coachman, and now he stood up quickly.

"DC," said sir, "he drank his glass of wine and standing.

"What are you crazy?"

"Here you go, your honor, i am already back."

He ran a little swaying to the horses. "Where are driving mer because,
your honor?"

»Prater - summer house."

The young man got on. The
young woman leaned completely hidden, almost huddled in the corner
under the established umbrella.

Franz took both her hands. She remained
motionless. - "Will you give me at least not good Evening to say?
"

"I pray thee;. Let me just a moment, I am still breathless"

The
young man leaned back in his corner. Both were silent for a while.
The car was in the Praterstraße inflected drove past the monument
Tegethoff, and after a few seconds he flew down the broad, dark Prater
Avenue. Now Emma suddenly embraced with both arms the beloved. He
quietly pushed back the veil that still separated him from her lips,
and kissed her.

"Am I at last with you," she said.

"Do you know
how long we have not seen us," he exclaimed.

"Since Sunday."

"Yes,
and because even from a distance."

Why? You were with us. "

"Well
... with you. Ah, that's not so on. I come to you ever again. But
what did you do? "

"A car is driven past us."

"Dear child, the people
who take a walk today in the Prater, do not care really around us.
"

"I think so. But chance can enter a gaze. "

"It is impossible
to tell someone."

"I beg you, we go somewhere else."

"As you wish."

He
called the driver, who does not seem to hear. At first he concealed
the name of his friend Sowerby, but it soon appeared that no such concealment was of any avail.
"That Sowerby, of course," said Mr. Forrest. "I know you are intimate with him; and all his
friends go through that, sooner or later." It seemed to Mark as though Mr. Forrest made very
light of the whole transaction.

"I cannot possibly pay the bill when it falls due," said Mark.

"Oh, no, of course not," said Mr. Forrest. "It's never very convenient to hand out four hundred
pounds at a blow. Nobody will expect you to pay it!"

"But I suppose I shall have to do it sooner or later?"

"Well, that's as may be. It will depend partly on how you manage with Sowerby, and partly on
the hands it gets into. As the bill has your name on it, they'll have patience as long as the
interest is paid, and the commissions on renewal. But no doubt it will have to be met some
day by somebody." If every nation with their right of honor is, disgraceful to tear
contracts with the weapons, as you can then command the honor of a treaty equal to the caudines
to which an unfortunate commander was compelled morally patient record, if the fresh burning
shame and the power of unbroken stands? So brought the peace treaty of Caudium not the peace,
the peace enthusiasts Samnium toerichterweise it had hoped, but only war and more war, with increased
Bitterness on both sides by the squandered opportunity of the broken solemn Word, the desecrated
military honor, the award given comrades. The Roman delivered Officers were not accepted by
the Samnites, in part because they thought too large to at to practice this unfortunate her revenge,
and partly because it allowed the Romans would have that the alliance has committed only to
sworn testimony, not the Roman state. High Herzig they spared even the hostages whose life was
forfeited by martial law, and but immediately turned to armed struggle. Luceria was occupied
by them, attacked Fregellae and stormed (434 320), before the Romans, the army had been dissolved
again reorganized; What could have been achieved if you would have the advantage of not drive out of
the hands To let the passage of Satricaner ^ 2 is the Samnites. But Rome was only momentarily
paralyzed, not weakened, shame and bitterness was offered there on what is to team and resources
could and put the most experienced as a soldier as excellent as a general equal Leader Lucius Papirius
cursor to the top of the newly formed army. The same is divided; One half went by Sabina and the
Adriatic littoral Luceria before, just then, the other Samnium by itself, the latter by the Samnite army
under lucky battles drove in front of them. They met together again under the walls of Luceria
whose siege operated was more eagerly than the Roman rider caught sitting there, and the Apulian especially
the Arpan rendered, while the Romans significant assistance, especially through procurement
the feed. After the Samnites to the relief of the city and lost a battle , had led Luceria the
Romans (435 319): Papirius enjoyed the double pleasure, the given to free lost comrades and
the Samnite garrison of the gallows Luceria to retaliate by Caudium. In the following years (435-437
319-317) was not the war very Samnium ^ led in 3 as in the neighboring countryside. First,
chastised the Roemer the Samnite allies in the Puglia region and Frentane and closed with
the Apulian Teanensern and Canusinern new Bundesvertraege from. At the same time was Satricum
for dominion brought back and heavily punished for his defection. Then drew the War of Campania,
where the Romans against the border town Samnium Saticula (perhaps S. Agata de 'Goti) conquered
(438 316). But now here again seemed Kriegsglueck turn against them to do. The Samnites attracted
Nuceriner (438 316) and soon after the Nolan on their side, the upper Liris expelled the Soran even
the Roman occupation (439 315), a collection of Ausone was preparing and threatened the important
Cales, and even in Capua suggested vividly the antiroemisch minded people.
 Such a thought would do our vicar injustice. But when
Lord Lufton would ask him what on earth could be the harm of riding along the roads to look
at the hounds, he hardly knew what sensible answer to give his lordship. It would be absurd
to say that his time would be better employed at home in clerical matters, for it was notorious
that he had not clerical pursuits for the employment of half his time. In this way, therefore,
he had got into a habit of looking at the hounds, and keeping up his acquaintance in the county,
meeting Lord Dumbello, Mr. Green Walker, Harold Smith, and other such like sinners; and on
one such occasion, as the three months were nearly closing, he did meet Mr. Sowerby. Rullianus' dangerous situation in Etruria and over the destruction
of the Roman Army of the North spread rumors encouraged the Samnites to new efforts, the Roman
Consul Gaius Marcius Rutilus was defeated by them and himself severely wounded. But the swing
of things in Etruria destroyed the new flashing Hopes. Lucius stepped back Papirius cursor to the top
of the sent against the Samnites Roman troops, and again he was victorious in a great and decisive
battle (445 309) which had been brought to the Confederates, their last strength, the core
of their army; the Buntroecke with the gold, the Weissroecke with the silver shields were wiped
out here and the shining armor of the same since then decorated on festive occasions Bude series
along the Roman market. More and higher rose the need, increasingly hopeless became the battle.
In the following year (446 308) laid down their weapons, the Etruscans, in the very same led
to the last city of Campania, which was still among the Samnites, Nuceria to water and The country attacked
simultaneously, under favorable conditions, the Romans. Although found The Samnites new ally
in the Umbrian people in the northern, the Marsi and Paelignern in central Italy, and even
by the Hernik numerous volunteers were in their ranks; but what with decisive weight into the
balance against Rome would have to fall if The Etruscans would have still been under arms, now
only increased the success of the Roman Wins, more difficult to seriously without it. The Umbrian,
the mine, made a train to to take Rome, Rullianus moved to the upper Tiber River with the army of
Samnium off without that it can prevent the Samnites would have weakened, and this was enough
to the Umbrian Land storm to dissipate. The war dragged on then back to central Italy. The Paeligner
were defeated, as is the Marsi, although the rest Sabellian tribes in name remained after enemies
of the Romans, but was gradually Samnium actually from this site alone. But unexpectedly their
assistance came from the Tiber River area. The Confederation of Hernici, Samnite among the prisoners
because of their compatriots found by the Romans to Speech made, explained that now the war
(448 306) - probably more out of desperation, as from calculation. It also closed some of the most
important Hernik communities from the outset from the warfare, but Anagnia, by far the most
considerable Hernikerstadt sat by the declaration of war. Militarily was, however, the present
situation of the Romans by this unexpected revolt in the rear of the siege of the castles of Samnium
Army personnel employed highly questionable. Only once was the Samnites the Kriegsglueck cheap;
Sora and Caiatia fell into their hands. But the subject unexpectedly Anagnina quickly sent out
the troops from Rome, and made this time also in the Samnium standing army, air, and it had
just lost everything. The Samnites sued for peace, however, in vain; still could not agree. First,
the campaign of 449 (305) brought the final decision. The two Roman Konsularheere invaded, Tiberius
Minucius and after its fall Marcus Fulvius of Campania from the mountain passes, Lucius Postumius
of Adriatic ago on Biferno up in a Samnium to here from the capital of the country Bovianum, the Hand
to hand, a decisive victory was gained, the Samnite commander Statius Gellius captured and Bovianum
stormed. The case of the main training base of the landscape was zweiundzwanzigjaehrigen the
war to an end. The Samnites came out of Sora and their crews Arpinum out and sent ambassadors
to Rome to seek peace, their example was followed by the Sabellian tribes, the Marsi, Marrucini,
Paeligner, Frentani, Vestini, Picentes. The Conditions that Rome granted at all, tolerable, but demanded
territorial concessions were single; For example, the Paelignern, but very important they do not
seem to have been. The same alliance between the Sabellian States and the Romans was renewed (450 304).
Probably about the same time and probably was also a result of the Samnite peace peace made
between Rome and Taranto. Although both cities were not directly against each other stood in
the field, the Tarentines had a long struggle between Rome and the beginning of Samnium stood idly
by until the end and only in league with the allies against the Sallentinern Rome, the Lucan,
the feud continued. Although they had in the last years of the Samnite War once again face
made to appear more aggressive. Part of the difficult situation, in which the incessant American
attacks luca they brought themselves, some probably the getting closer to them insistent feeling
that their Samnium complete suppression threatening their own independence, they had determined,
in spite of past with Alexander unpleasant Experience again a condottiere to trust. It came to
her call the Spartan Prince Kleonymos with five thousand mercenaries, which he is just as strong,
recruited in Italy And the crowd plus the Messapians, the smaller Griechenstaedte and especially
the Tarentum Citizen army, 22 000 men strong, united. forced at the head of considerable army
he make the Lucan, peace with Tarentum and to create a Samnite minded government while admittedly
Metapontum was sacrificed to them. Still, the Samnites were under arms, as this was done, nothing prevented
the Spartans to come to their aid and the weight of strong army, and his art of war for the freedom
of the Italian cities and peoples throw in the pan. Taranto did not act alone, such as Rome acted
in the same case would have, and Prince Kleonymos itself was nothing less than an Alexander or a Pyrrhus.
He was in no hurry to start a war is unlikely that the more blows stood as prey, but rather
made with the Lucanians common cause against Metapontum and let himself be so, while he was speaking
from a train in this city against Agathocles of Syracuse and the liberation of the Sicilian Greeks.
About that because the Samnites Peace, and when after the end of Rome began in earnest to the
southeast of the peninsula troubling and, for example in the year 447 (307) a Roman armies
to the field of Sallentiner sacked or rather well reconnoitred in higher order, was the Spartan
Condotti with his mercenaries to ship and rumbled over the island of Corfu, the excellent was
located, from there to take action against Greece and Italy Piratenzuege. So of their captain
abandoned, while their allies in central Italy deprived of the Tarentines remained allied with them
and the Italians, the leaders and Luca Sallentinern, now of course no choice but to seek an agreement
with Rome, which on tolerable conditions seems to have been granted. Soon afterward (451 303)
was even a Incidence of Kleonymos, who had landed in the area and sallentinischen Uria, besieged by
the Inhabitants repulsed with Roman help. Rome's victory was complete, and completely he was
used. That the Samnites, the Tarentines and also resident tribes of at all so moderate conditions were
made was not Siegergrossmut that the Romans did not know but clever and clear calculation. First
and foremost it was important not so much to southern Italy as soon as possible to the formal
recognition of the Roman Supremacy than to force the surrender of central Italy, to which the
Campania Puglia and even during the last war applied Militaerstrassen and fortresses Foundation
of the, extent and to complete and the northern and southern Italians by militarily in two
out of any direct contact with each cut Auseinanderzusprengen masses. This is the aim for the
next things to the Romans with energetic consequence. Above all, used or made, the opportunity
to the Tiber in the landscape once again with the Roman power rival, and even individual not
clean up completely eliminated and the confederacies of Aequi Hernici. In the same year in which
the peace was concluded with Samnium (450 304), overlaid the Consul Publius Sempronius Sophus
Aequi with the war, in forty villages submitted to fifty Days, the entire area with the exception
of the narrow and rugged mountain valley, which is still the old Common names carries (Cicolano),
became a Roman possession and here at the northern edge of the lake Fucine Founded in the year
to the fortress of Alba, with a crew of 6,000 men, then on the facing against the warlike Mars
and the stronghold of central Italy, just two years later on upper Turano, closer to Rome,
Carsioli, both as a federal municipalities Latin rights. That of the least Hernik Anagnia
part in the final stage of the Samnite War had had the desired base to solve the old Bundesverhaeltnis.
The fate of the Anagnina natuerlicherweise was harder by far than that which a generation
before the Latin communities in the same case had been prepared. They did not merely how these
liabilities the Roman civil rights put up, but lost the same the Caeriten own administration,
on a part of their area at the top Trerus (Sacco) Besides this, a new mayor and district at the
same time, another set at the lower anion (455 299). It was only sorry that the next three most
important Anagnia Hernik communities Aletrium, Verulae Ferentinum and were not dropped, for the
suggestion because she voluntarily in the Roman citizens association advocate, politely refused,
and any excuse, they do necessary to lack, you had them well not only the autonomy, but even the Right
of the Diet and the community of marriage concede even further and thus even a shadow Hernik
the old Confederation to be desired. In the part of Volscian landscape, which until then had
held the Samnites, did not bind similar Ruecksichten. Here were Arpinum Frusino and submissive, and
the latter city a third of its field marks robbed, and also on the upper Liris next Fregellae
already occupied with earlier occupation Volskerstadt Sora now turns to the duration in a Latin
fortress and a legion of 4,000 men down there. That was the old Volskergebiet subject completely
and went his Romanization forward with quick steps. deposited in the landscape, which Samnium
and Etruria, were two Militaerstrassen ushered in and both secured by fortresses. The northern,
from was later the Flamin, covered the Tiber line, it runs the alliance with Rome Ocriculum to Narnia,
as umnannten the Romans, the ancient Umbrian festivals Nequinum, as they there creates a Militaerkolonie
(455 299). The southern, that later was Valerian, Fucine the lake just mentioned about the forts Carsioli
and Alba. The small tribes of, in whose territory such facilities can be found, the Umbrian,
the Nequinum defended stubbornly, the Aequi that again Alba, the Marsi, broke into the Carsioli
could, in his Rome Gang not stop, almost unhindered pushed those two mighty bolt between Samnium
and Etruria. The big roads and fortifications to the permanent protection of Puglia and was mainly
Campania beginning to think and succeed Samnium was further to the east and West of the Roman
fortress knitted net. Significant for the relatively Etruria weakness is that it was not necessary,
the passes through the Cimini Forest in the same way to ensure a proper road and forts. The previous
Border fortress Sutrium was here also the end point of the Roman Militaerlinie and you contented
themselves with the road from there to get at Arretium by communities in to have militarily usable
withstand ^ 4 ------------------------------------------------ ^ 4 The operations in the campaign
of 537 (217) and certain still the system of road from Arretium to show Bononia 567 (187) that,
under prior to that time the road from Rome Arretium repair has been set. But a Roman Militaerchaussee
they can in this Time not yet been, since, after its subsequent designation of the "road Cassischen"
to close, as can be created via Consularis not earlier than 583 (171), for between Spurius
Cassius, consul 252, 261, 268 (502, 493, 486), are not the intended course may, and Gaius Cassius Longinus,
consul 583 (171), does not appear in the Roman Cassier Consuls and censors lists. -----------------------------------------------
The generous Samnite nation understood it, that such a peace was more destructive than the most
pernicious War, and what's more, they acted accordingly. Just started in northern Italy by
the Celts after a long Ceasefire again to stir, yet there were also some Etruscan communities against
the Romans under arms and short changed here Waffenstillstaende with severe but unsuccessful
battles. Nor was the whole of central Italy in fermentation and partly in open Uprising, nor
were the strongholds in the system understand the path between Etruria and Samnium not completely
blocked. Maybe it was not too late to save freedom; but we could not delay: the increased difficulty
of the attack, the power of the attacker decreased with each year of the renewed peace. Scarcely
five years had their arms rested and still had to bleed all the wounds which the war zweiundzwanzigjaehrige
the peasantry Samnium had struck, when in the year 456 (298) the Samnite Confederation, to combat renewed.
The last war had much Lucania connection with Rome and the resulting mitveranlasste traffic
away from Tarentum in favor of Rome decided, therefore taught that threw Samnites now first
and foremost, with a vengeance on the Lucanians and brought here, in fact, her party to power
and an alliance between Samnium and Lucania completed. Of course Roemer said that the war immediately,
in Samnium one had not expected anything else. It means the mood that the Samnite government made
the Roman envoys, the advertisement, was unable to vouch for their integrity when they would
enter Samnite territory. The war thus began again (456 298), and during a second army fought
in Etruria marched through the main Roman army Samnium and forced to make peace and hostages
Lucanians to send to Rome. The following year both consuls were able to contact the Samnium; Rullianus
won at Tifernum, Publius Decius Mus his faithful Waffengefaehrte at Maleventum, and five Months
on end camped two Roman armies in enemy territory. It was possible because the Tuscan States had
on his own with Rome angeknuepft peace negotiations. The Samnites, which of house in the union
of all Italy against Rome's only means of Victory must have seen, offered to the uttermost,
to the threatened separate peace between Etruria and Rome to turn, and when at last their commander
Gellius Egnatius the Etruscans their own country, offering help to bring understanding, in
fact, the Etruscan Federal to persevere and once again to call the decision of arms. Samnium
made the mightiest efforts, ask three armies into the field at the same time, one intended
to Defense of its territory for the second invasion of Campania, the third and strongest to Etruria,
and really got in 458 (296) the last run by Egnatius itself, were through the Martian and the
Umbrian region, whose inhabitants in the agreement, safely to Etruria.


"I don't think there is, my dear, and therefore I would not for worlds make any suggestion
about it to Lord Lufton. I would not let him suppose that I suspected Lucy of being so imprudent.
But still, it may be well that you should just say a word to her. A little management now and
then, in such matters, is so useful."

"But what shall I say to her?"

"Just explain to her that any young lady who talks so much to the same young gentleman will
certainly be observed--that people will accuse her of setting her cap at Lord Lufton. Not that
I suspect her--I give her credit for too much proper feeling: I know her education has been
good, and her principles are upright. But people will talk of her. You must understand that,
Fanny, as well as I do." Fanny could not help meditating whether proper feeling, education,
and upright principles did forbid Lucy Robarts to fall in love with Lord Lufton; but her doubts
on this subject, if she held any, were not communicated to her ladyship. It had never entered
into her mind that a match was possible between Lord Lufton and Lucy Robarts, nor had she the
slightest wish to encourage it now that the idea was suggested to her. On such a matter she
could sympathize with Lady Lufton, though she did not completely agree with her as to the expediency
of any interference. Nevertheless, she at once offered to speak to Lucy. "I don't think that
Lucy has any idea in her head upon the subject," said Mrs. Robarts.

"I dare say not--I don't suppose she has. But young ladies sometimes allow themselves to fall
in love, and then to think themselves very ill-used, just because they have had no idea in
their head."

"I will put her on her guard if you wish it, Lady Lufton."

"Exactly, my dear; that is just it. Put her on her guard--that is all that is necessary. She
is a dear, good, clever girl, and it would be very sad if anything were to interrupt our comfortable
way of getting on with her." Mrs. Robarts knew to a nicety the exact meaning of this threat.
If Lucy would persist in securing to herself so much of Lord Lufton's time and attention, her
visits to Framley Court must become less frequent. Lady Lufton would do much, very much, indeed,
for her friends at the parsonage; but not even for them could she permit her son's prospects
in life to be endangered. There was nothing more said between them, and Mrs. Robarts got up
to take her leave, having promised to speak to Lucy.

"You manage everything so perfectly," said Lady Lufton, as she pressed Mrs. Robarts's hand,
"that I am quite at ease now that I find you will agree with me." Mrs. Robarts did not exactly
agree with her ladyship, but she hardly thought it worth her while to say so. Mrs. Robarts
immediately started off on her walk to her own home, and when she had got out of the grounds
into the road, where it makes a turn towards the parsonage, nearly opposite to Podgens' shop,
she saw Lord Lufton on horseback, and Lucy standing beside him. It was already nearly five
o'clock, and it was getting dusk; but as she approached, or rather as she came suddenly within
sight of them, she could see that they were in close conversation. Lord Lufton's face was towards
her, and his horse was standing still; he was leaning over towards his companion, and the whip,
which he held in his right hand, hung almost over her arm and down her back, as though his
hand had touched and perhaps rested on her shoulder. She was standing by his side, looking
up into his face, with one gloved hand resting on the horse's neck. Mrs. Robarts, as she saw
them, could not but own that there might be cause for Lady Lufton's fears. But then Lucy's
manner, as Mrs. Robarts approached, was calculated to dissipate any such fears, and to prove
that there was no ground for them. She did not move from her position, or allow her hand to
drop, or show that she was in any way either confused or conscious. She stood her ground, and
when her sister-in-law came up was smiling and at her ease. "Lord Lufton wants me to learn
to ride," said she.

"To learn to ride!" said Fanny, not knowing what answer to make to such a proposition.

"Yes," said he. "This horse would carry her beautifully: he is as quiet as a lamb, and I made
Gregory go out with him yesterday with a sheet hanging over him like a lady's habit, and the
man got up into a lady's saddle."

"I think Gregory would make a better hand of it than Lucy."

"The horse cantered with him as though he had carried a lady all his life, and his mouth is
like velvet; indeed, that is his fault--he is too soft-mouthed."

"I suppose that's the same sort of thing as a man being soft-hearted," said Lucy.

"Exactly: you ought to ride them both with a very light hand. They are difficult cattle to
manage, but very pleasant when you know how to do it."

"But you see I don't know how to do it," said Lucy.

"As regards the horse, you will learn in two days, and I do hope you will try. Don't you think
it will be an excellent thing for her, Mrs. Robarts?"

"Lucy has got no habit," said Mrs. Robarts, making use of the excuse common on all such occasions.

"There is one of Justinia's in the house, I know. She always leaves one here, in order that
she may be able to ride when she comes."

"She would not think of taking such a liberty with Lady Meredith's things," said Fanny, almost
frightened at the proposal.

"Of course it is out of the question, Fanny," said Lucy, now speaking rather seriously. "In
the first place, I would not take Lord Lufton's horse; in the second place, I would not take
Lady Meredith's habit; in the third place, I should be a great deal too much frightened; and,
lastly, it is quite out of the question for a great many other very good reasons."

"Nonsense," said Lord Lufton.

"A great deal of nonsense," said Lucy, laughing, "but all of it of Lord Lufton's talking. 

The Senn was in the time a couple of times with his Kesselchen gone back and forth. Over There
at Alluvial river he was always stopped for a while and had looked all around. The mountains
were no longer red from the glow of evening, but now increased in size and golden, the full moon
behind the white teeth up. Now the herdsman came back to the hut and introduced himself the
this, which still sat in the same place.

"How do you like here?" he asked kindly. "With the dinner you're done,
as I see.

You have to do to walk back. Look how beautiful you home the moon lights up! "

This was not even the thought about going away. But now he remembered it well was unnecessary. He
stood up, once again thanking the Franz Anton and left. But he did not come further than the
Tannenbaeumchen, it held him back by force. He looked again back, and as the herdsman had entered
the hut and could not see him, scurried He quickly dark under the branches. Franz Anton was the
only person, who in his whole life had treated with kindness and love. This had such an impact on
the made that he could not continue. He had a little close to this good man . Remain This
was quite hidden among the trees and looked up at the cabin, whether Senn he not again see them.
It took some time because suddenly became Franz Anton really still
out from his hut.

He stopped at the door, watching with folded arms in the quiet mountain world, where now about all the
high snowy peaks shone through the mild moonlight. Also on the face the herdsmen was now the bright
moonlight, and This was the assurance of peaceful serenity . See Then he folded his hands. He
was probably still his evening prayers. Then suddenly he said aloud: "Good night, give yourself
to God!" stepped back into the hut and closed the door to. His night was probably his greeting
old friends in the high mountains all around and the people was subject
he loved.

This had the look of quiet reverence to the Franz Anton. He felt love and admiration for the
Senn, feelings that he had not known before.

As it was now quite dark and quiet in the cabin, was on the This and ran as fast as he could
down the mountain.

It was late and not a little light to see more.
But he was right, the door was never closed. He stepped quietly into
the little house and stole to his bed, he with the Uli had to share.
This fell stiff and firm, even after he had proclaimed earlier: "It
is comfortable that the This is also too stupid now to find his bed.
So you have a seat! " When
they had reached it, Lucy stood in the doorway instead of entering it, and said, "Fanny, let
us take another turn together, if you are not tired."

"No, I'm not tired."

"It will be better that I should understand you at once,"--and then they again moved away from
the house. "Tell me truly now, do you think that Lord Lufton and I have been flirting?"

"I do think that he is a little inclined to flirt with you."

"And Lady Lufton has been asking you to lecture me about it?" Poor Mrs. Robarts hardly knew
what to say. She thought well of all the persons concerned, and was very anxious to behave
well by all of them;--was particularly anxious to create no ill feeling, and wished that everybody
should be comfortable, and on good terms with everybody else. But yet the truth was forced
out of her when this question was asked so suddenly. "Not to lecture you, Lucy," she said at last.

"Well, to preach to me, or to talk to me, or to give me a lesson; to say something that shall
drive me to put my back up against Lord Lufton?"

"To caution you, dearest. Had you heard what she said, you would hardly have felt angry with
Lady Lufton."

"Well, to caution me. It is such a pleasant thing for a girl to be cautioned against falling
in love with a gentleman, especially when the gentleman is very rich, and a lord, and all that
sort of thing!"

"Nobody for a moment attributes anything wrong to you, Lucy."

"Anything wrong--no. I don't know whether it would be anything wrong, even if I were to fall
in love with him. I wonder whether they cautioned Griselda Grantly when she was here? I suppose
when young lords go about, all the girls are cautioned as a matter of course. Why do they not
label him 'dangerous'?" And then again they were silent for a moment, as Mrs. Robarts did not
feel that she had anything further to say on the matter.

"'Poison' should be the word with any one so fatal as Lord Lufton; and he ought to be made
up of some particular colour, for fear he should be swallowed in mistake."

"You will be safe, you see," said Fanny, laughing, "as you have been specially cautioned as
to this individual bottle."

"Ah! but what's the use of that after I have had so many doses? It is no good telling me about
it now; when the mischief is done,--after I have been taking it for I don't know how long.
Dear! dear! dear! and I regarded it as a mere commonplace powder, good for the complexion.
I wonder whether it's too late, or whether there's any antidote?" Mrs. Robarts did not always
quite understand her sister-in-law, and now she was a little at a loss. "I don't think there's
much harm done yet on either side," she said, cheerily.

"Ah! you don't know, Fanny. But I do think that if I die--as I shall--I feel I shall;--and
if so, I do think it ought to go very hard with Lady Lufton. Why didn't she label him 'dangerous'
in time?" And then they went into the house and up to their own rooms. It was difficult for
any one to understand Lucy's state of mind at present, and it can hardly be said that she understood
it herself. She felt that she had received a severe blow in having been thus made the subject
of remark with reference to Lord Lufton. Campania, the The
Samnites were flooded during the Etruscan war, was after its termination with little trouble re-occupied
by the Romans. Etruria asked in the following year 460 (294) for peace; Volsinii, Perusia, Arretium
well at all and all the league against Rome joined Cities praised ceasefire to four hundred months.
But the Samnites thought otherwise: they set are desperate to mute opposition to that of free men,
the lucky and not can force, but shameful. When in the year 460 (294) marched in the two Konsularheere
Samnium, they met with everywhere in the fiercest resistance, and yes, Marcus Atilius suffered a setback
at Luceria, and the Samnites in Campania could penetrate the territory of the Roman Colony Interamna
devastate the Liris. In the following year gave Lucius Papirius cursor Son of the hero of the
first Samnite war, and a large Spurius Carvilius at Aquilonia Battle against the Samnite army,
the core, the 16 000 Weissroecke, with holy Had sworn oaths to prefer death to escape. Meanwhile,
the inexorable fate asks not to oaths and desperate plea, the Romans conquered and stormed
the parties, in had fled the Samnites and their effects. Even after this great defeat the Confederates
fought back against the increasingly overpowering enemy for years with unprecedented Stamina
in their castles and mountains and even gained some advantage in detail, the old Rullianus arm
was tested again (462 292) mobilized against them, and Gavius ​​Pontius, Perhaps the son of the victor
of Caudium, gained even for his people one last victory, low enough to the Romans retaliated on
him by making him, as he was later captured, were executed in prison (463 291). But nothing
moved on in Italy, for the War, the Falerii 461 (293) began deserves little that name. Well you
did in Samnium the gaze longingly turn to Tarentum, which was still only able to provide assistance;
but they never came. They were the same reasons as before, the failure to act which Tarentum
brought about: the inner Miss Regiment and the repeated passage of the Roman Lucanians Party
in 456 (298), plus there was the not remain founded his fear of Agathocles Syracuse, who was
just then at the height of his power and started against Italy . Contact Around the year 455
(299) put this on Kerkyra to determine from where Kleonymos by Demetrios the besiegers was now displaced
and threatened by the Adriatic from the Ionian Sea as her the Tarentines. The cession of the
island to King Pyrrhus of Epirus in 459 (295) eliminated However, for the most part, the cherished
concerns, but the kerkyraeischen Affairs continued to deal with the Tarentines as for in the year 464
(290) the King Pyrrhus in possession of the island helped protect against Demetrius, and also
heard not to Agathocles, to be alarmed by his Italian policy Tarentines. When he died (465 289) and
with him the power of Syracuse in Italy perished, it was too late; Samnium, the thirty-seven Battle-weary,
had the year before (464 290) with the Roman Consul Manius Curius dentate Peace was concluded and
renewed in form an alliance with Rome. This time, too, were as in Peace of 450 (304) to the brave
people of the Romans not shameful or destructive Conditions found, not even territorial concessions
appear to have taken place. The Roman political wisdom has preferred to continue on the path taken so far, and before
we went to the direct conquest of the interior, initially the Campanian and Adriatic littoral and
fixed more firmly to attach to Rome. Campania has long since been submissive; but the far-sighted
Roman policy was necessary to secure the Campanian coast to put there two beach fortifications,
and Minturnae Sinuessa (459 295), the new citizenship occurred after the for Kuestenkolonien
established principle in the full Roman citizenship. Vigor was promoted the expansion of Roman
rule in central Italy. As the surrender of the Aequi Hernici and the immediate result of the
First Samnite War, then joined the end of that of the Sabines. The same general, which the Samnites defeated
finally Manius Curius broke in the same year (464 290) the short and impotent the same resistance
and forced the Sabines to unconditional surrender. A large part of the subject area was immediately
taken by the victors in possession and distributed to Roman citizens, the communities uebrigbleibenden
Cures, Reate, Amiternum, Nursia subjects of the Roman law (civitas sine Suffragio) imposed.
Bundesstaedte same Law have not established here, the landscape was rather under the direct
control Rome, so that extended to the Apennines and the Umbrian hills. But more limited you are
not on the field this side of the mountain, the last war had shown all too clearly that the
Roman rule over central Italy was only secured when from sea sea enough. The determination of
the Romans beyond the Apennine begins with the establishment of strong Fortress Hatria (Atri) in
465 (289), on the northern slope of the Abruzzi to the Piceno level, not directly on the coast
and therefore Latin rights, but the sea close, and the keystone of the vast, northern and southern
Italy divisive wedge. Similar Way of even greater importance was the foundation of Venusia (463 291),
where the unprecedented Number of 20,000 colonists was led, and the city, on the myelin sheath of
Samnium, Puglia and Lucania, on the highway between Taranto and Samnium in an extremely solid Founded
position was determined to be the stronghold of the neighboring tribes of and especially between
the two most powerful enemies of Rome in southern Italy, the connection to interrupt. Without
doubt, was at the same time, the southern road, which Appius Claudius led up to Capua, had extended
up from there to Venusia. For the first extended to as the Samnite wars came to an end, the closed,
which means almost exclusively communities from Roman or Latin rights to the existing area
of ​​Rome northward Cimini forest, east to the Abruzzi and to the Adriatic Sea, south to Capua, while
the two outposts Luceria Venusia and, on the east and south on the lines of the enemy applied
the same isolation in all directions. Rome was no longer merely the first, but already the
dominant power on the peninsula, than towards the end of the fifth century, the city those nations
that the Favor were the gods and their own ability in each called their landscape to the top in the
Council and on the battlefield to sew each began and, as in the Olympic preliminary Winner of
the second and more serious fight, the bigger Voelkerringstatt now Carthage Macedonia and
Rome were preparing for the final and decisive race course. 7. Chapter King Pyrrhus on Rome and the
unification of Italy in the period of the undisputed world domination Rome used to the Greeks
their Roman masters to annoyed with the fact that they as the cause the size of the Roman fever
identified, at which Alexander of Macedon 11 June 431 (323) in Babylon died. Since it was not
too comforting to think about what happened, we lingered not mind with the thoughts in what would
have come like it when the great Koenig, as it should have been his intention when he died,
turned against the West and dispute with his fleet to the Carthaginians the sea, with its phalanx
of the Romans the earth would have made. It is not impossible that Alexander was with thoughts
like these; and one need not to explain it, merely to point out that an autocrat is provided bellicose
and with soldiers and ships, is difficult to limit its warfare place. It was worthy of a Greek great-king,
the Siceliotes against Carthage, the Tarentines to protect against Rome and to the Pirates
being on two seas to an end; the Italian embassy, ​​which appeared in Babylon, among countless others,
the Brettians, Lucan, Etruscan ^ 1, would be an opportunity enough to know the relations of
the peninsula and relationships anzuknuepfen there. Carthage with its multiple connections
in the East had the eye of the powerful man to take necessary, and probably it was in his Intentions,
the nominal rule of the Persian king of the Tyrian colony into a real transform, not for nothing
that a messenger from Carthage spy was in the immediate Alexander's environment. However, this
might be dreams or plans, the king died with no have the affairs of the West is concerned, and
those thoughts were with him to the grave. Just a few short years had a Greek man all the intellectual
power of Hellenism, all the material wealth of the East combined held in his hand; Although his
death was the work of his life, the foundation of Hellenism in the East, not based on, but split almost
immediately the united kingdom and under the constant quarrels of the various, from these
ruins was the forming of all States of their world-historical destiny, the propaganda of the
Greek culture in the East, not abandoned, but weakened and stunted. In such circumstances, neither
could the Greek Asian-Egyptian nor the States remember to take firm root and in the West turn
against the Romans or the Carthaginians themselves. The eastern and the western state system existed
side by side, without first accessing each other politically, and especially Rome remained the
intricacies of Diadochenperiode much stranger. Only relations of an economic nature be noted, because
such as the Rhodes, Free State, the chief representative a neutral trade policy in Greece
and therefore, the general agent of the traffic in a time of perpetual war, around the year
448 (306) completed an agreement with Rome, of course a trade treaty, as it is natural between
a merchant people and the gentlemen of the caeritischen and Campanian coast. Also in the Soeldnerlieferung,
the general of the Advertising space at that time, of Greece went to Italy, and especially
to Taranto, had the political relationship, for example, between Taranto and his mother Sparta,
passed with only a very minor way, in all the ads were nothing as a commercial business, and
Sparta, although the Tarentines regularly to the Italian Get the captains came supplied with
the Italians about as little as feud in the North American War of Independence, the German states of
the Union, their opponents, they sold their subjects. --------------------------------------------------
- ^ 1 The narrative that even the Romans Sent ambassadors to Alexander to Babylon, going to
the testimony of Kleitarchos back (Pliny Nat. 3, 5, 57), from which the other, this fact reporting
tools (Aristos and Asclepiades Arrian in 7, 15, 5; Memnon c. 25) forge without a doubt. Kleitarchos
however, was a contemporary of these events, but his life of Alexander nevertheless held on
several historic Novel as history, and in the silence of reliable biographers (article cited
above, Liv. 9, 18) and the completely novel-like detail of the report that, for example, the Romans
Alexander with a golden crown and handed predicted that the future size of Rome should have, you
will not be able to avoid this story to many others by Kleitarchos to place in the history introducet
decoration. -------------------------------------------------- - Nothing but a war-adventurer
Captain King Pyrrhus of Epirus was he was none the less a HAPPY BIRTHDAY, he's pedigree traces
back to Aeakos and Achilles and that, had he been disposed to peaceful, as "king" over a small
Mountain people under Macedonian supremacy, or at best would have freedom in isolated can live
and die. He has been well compared to Alexander of Macedon, and although the founding of a West Hellenic
Empire, the core of Epirus, Magna Graecia, Sicily formed, would have the seas and dominated the two Italian
Rome and Carthage in the series the barbaric Grenzvoelker of the Hellenistic state system, the Celts
and Indians urged would have - this idea is probably big and bold as the one that the Macedonian
Koenig led over the Hellespont. But not only the various different output the eastern and
the western Heerzug. Alexander was with his Macedonian army in particular, the staff was EXCELLENT, the
great-king offers the perfect top, but The king of Epirus, Macedonia was standing next to something
like Hesse next Prussia, received a significant army only by mercenaries and alliances, the policy
on random Based combinations. Alexander was in the Persian Empire as a conqueror, Pyrrhus in Italy
as commander of a coalition of Sekundaerstaaten, Alexander bequeathed his inheritance completely
secured by the absolute subjection of Greece and the strong, under Antipater remaining army, Pyrrhus
vouched for the integrity of its own territory does not as the word of a dubious neighbors. For both
conquerors heard if its plans go, the home is necessary to, the focus of the new kingdom to be, but rather it was
executable to relocate the headquarters of the Macedonian Militaermonarchie to Babylon than
in Taranto Syracuse, or to found a dynasty soldiers. The democracy of the Greek republics, so
it was a perpetual agony, settled in the stiff forms of Militaerstaats now back force not once,
Phil knew well why he's the Greek Republics Reich is not incorporated. In the East, a national resistance
was not expected; ruling and serving tribes lived there for a long time next to each other and the
change of the despot was the mass of the population indifferent or even desired. In the West were
the Romans, the Samnites, the Carthaginians also be overcome, but not a conqueror would have been
able to to transform the Italians in the Roman or Egyptian Fellahs farmers Interest- to make Hellenic
barons. What is also envisages that own power, the allies, the forces of the enemy - everywhere
appears the plan of the executable Makedoniers than one of the Epirots as an impossible undertaking,
that as the execution of a large historic task of this as a remarkable blunder, that as the
foundation to a new state system and a new phase of civilization, this story as a Episode. Alexander's
work outlived him, although the Creator died at the wrong time, saw Pyrrhus with their own
eyes the failure of all of his plans before the death he'd get. They were both bold and big natures,
but only the first general Pyrrhus, especially the brilliant Alexander Statesman of his time,
and if it is the insight into the possible and impossible, the separates the hero of the adventurer,
it must Pyrrhus added that counts and must be less Relatives is so rarely put to the side such
as the Constable of Bourbon Louis Eleventh. And yet, a wonderful magic ties in the name of
the Epirotes, its own Participation, although some of the chivalrous and charming personality of
the same, but everything still applies to the fact that he is the first Greek to the Romans
in battle opposite occurs. With him start those direct relations between Rome and Greece, on which
the whole subsequent development of ancient civilization and an essential part of the modern
is based. The struggle between phalanges and cohorts, and between the Soeldnerarmee of the
militia, between the military kingship and the Senator regiment, between the individual Talent
and national character - the struggle between Rome and Hellenism was first fought in the battles
between Pyrrhus and the Roman generals, and even if the unsuccessful party is still often called
upon later to the new decision of the arms, but any subsequent slaughter has simply confirmed
the verdict. If, on the battlefield subject as in the Curia, the Greeks, then their superiority
decided no less in any other non-political event, and just have these struggles have guessed it,
that the victory over Rome will be different from the Greeks over the Gauls and Phoenicians Aphrodite's
magic and that only begins to work when the lance and helmet and fragmented Sign is put aside.
King Pyrrhus was the son of Aeakides, Lord of the Molosser (To Janine), who, protected by Alexander
as a relative and faithful vassal, after which swept into the vortex of death of the Macedonian
family policy was and is first his empire and then lost his life (441 313). His son was then sechsjaehriger
of the Lord of the Illyrian Taulantians, Glaukias saved, and in the course of its war to Macedonia
Holding a boy, attributed by Demetrios the assailants returned to his ancestral Principality
(447 307) to it after a few years back by the influence of the other party losing (by 452 302) and
as landfluechtiger princes son in the wake of the Macedonian generals to begin his military
career. Soon, his personality made itself felt. Under Antigonus he did with his last Feldzuege,
and the old Marshal Alexander had his joy in the born soldier who in the opinion of the gray-haired
commander, only the Were missing for years now, the first soldier of the time being. The disastrous
battle at Ipsos brought him to Alexandria as a hostage to the court of the founder of the Lagidendynastie,
where he be bold and crude nature, its not all military thoroughly despising Soldiers no less sense
of the politic king Ptolemy drew attention to itself as by his male beauty, which the wild face,
the huge impact no entry did those of the royal ladies. Just then founded his kuehne of Demetrios
once again, this time in Macedonia, a new empire, of course, with the intention of there,
the Alexander Monarchy to renew.
 It includes two populous
villages, abounding in brickmakers, a race of men very troublesome to a zealous parson who
won't let men go rollicking to the devil without interference. Hogglestock has full work for
two men; and yet all the funds therein applicable to parson's work is this miserable stipend
of one hundred and thirty pounds a year. It is a stipend neither picturesque, nor time-honoured,
nor feudal, for Hogglestock takes rank only as a perpetual curacy.

Mr. Crawley has been mentioned before as a clergyman of whom Mr. Robarts said, that he almost
thought it wrong to take a walk out of his own parish. In so saying Mark Robarts of course
burlesqued his brother parson; but there can be no doubt that Mr. Crawley was a strict man,--a
strict, stern, unpleasant man, and one who feared God and his own conscience. We must say a
word or two of Mr. Crawley and his concerns. He was now some forty years of age, but of these
he had not been in possession even of his present benefice for more than four or five. The
first ten years of his life as a clergyman had been passed in performing the duties and struggling
through the life of a curate in a bleak, ugly, cold parish on the northern coast of Cornwall.
It had been a weary life and a fearful struggle, made up of duties ill requited and not always
satisfactorily performed, of love and poverty, of increasing cares, of sickness, debt, and
death. For Mr. Crawley had married almost as soon as he was ordained, and children had been
born to him in that chill, comfortless Cornish cottage. He had married a lady well educated
and softly nurtured, but not dowered with worldly wealth. They two had gone forth determined
to fight bravely together; to disregard the world and the world's ways, looking only to God
and to each other for their comfort. They would give up ideas of gentle living, of soft raiment,
and delicate feeding. Others,--those that work with their hands, even the bettermost of such
workers--could live in decency and health upon even such provision as he could earn as a clergyman.
In such manner would they live, so poorly and so decently, working out their work, not with
their hands but with their hearts.

And so they had established themselves, beginning the world with one bare-footed little girl
of fourteen to aid them in their small household matters; and for a while they had both kept
heart, loving each other dearly, and prospering somewhat in their work. But a man who has once
walked the world as a gentleman knows not what it is to change his position, and place himself
lower down in the social rank. Much less can he know what it is so to put down the woman whom
he loves. There are a thousand things, mean and trifling in themselves, which a man despises
when he thinks of them in his philosophy, but to dispense with which puts his philosophy to
so stern a proof. Let any plainest man who reads this think of his usual mode of getting himself
into his matutinal garments, and confess how much such a struggle would cost him. And then
children had come. The wife of the labouring man does rear her children, and often rears them
in health, without even so many appliances of comfort as found their way into Mrs. Crawley's
cottage; but the task to her was almost more than she could accomplish. Not that she ever fainted
or gave way: she was made of the sterner metal of the two, and could last on while he was prostrate.

And sometimes he was prostrate--prostrate in soul and spirit. Then would he complain with bitter
voice, crying out that the world was too hard for him, that his back was broken with his burden,
that his God had deserted him. For days and days, in such moods, he would stay within his cottage,
never darkening the door or seeing other face than those of his own inmates. Those days were
terrible both to him and her. He would sit there unwashed, with his unshorn face resting on
his hand, with an old dressing-gown hanging loose about him, hardly tasting food, seldom speaking,
striving to pray, but striving so frequently in vain. And then he would rise from his chair,
and, with a burst of frenzy, call upon his Creator to remove him from this misery. In these
moments she never deserted him. At one period they had had four children, and though the whole
weight of this young brood rested on her arms, on her muscles, on her strength of mind and
body, she never ceased in her efforts to comfort him. Then at length, falling utterly upon
the ground, he would pour forth piteous prayers for mercy, and after a night of sleep would
once more go forth to his work.

But she never yielded to despair: the struggle was never beyond her powers of endurance. She
had possessed her share of woman's loveliness, but that was now all gone. Her colour quickly
faded, and the fresh, soft tints soon deserted her face and forehead. She became thin, and
rough, and almost haggard: thin till her cheek-bones were nearly pressing through her skin,
till her elbows were sharp, and her finger-bones as those of a skeleton. Her eye did not lose
its lustre, but it became unnaturally bright, prominent, and too large for her wan face. The
soft brown locks which she had once loved to brush back, scorning, as she would boast to herself,
to care that they should be seen were now sparse enough and all untidy and unclean. It was
matter of little thought now whether they were seen or no. Whether he could be made fit to
go into his pulpit--whether they might be fed--those four innocents--and their backs kept from
the cold wind--that was now the matter of her thought. And then two of them died, and she went
forth herself to see them laid under the frost-bound sod, lest he should faint in his work
over their graves. For he would ask aid from no man--such at least was his boast through all.
Two of them died, but their illness had been long; and then debts came upon them. Debt, indeed,
had been creeping on them with slow but sure feet during the last five years. Who can see his
children hungry, and not take bread if it be offered? Who can see his wife lying in sharpest
want, and not seek a remedy if there be a remedy within reach? So debt had come upon them,
and rude men pressed for small sums of money--for sums small to the world, but impossibly large
to them. And he would hide himself within there, in that cranny of an inner chamber--hide himself
with deep shame from the world, with shame, and a sinking heart, and a broken spirit.

But had such a man no friend? it will be said. Such men, I take it, do not make many friends.
But this man was not utterly friendless. Almost every year one visit was paid to him in his
Cornish curacy by a brother clergyman, an old college friend, who, as far as might in him lie,
did give aid to the curate and his wife. This gentleman would take up his abode for a week
at a farmer's, in the neighbourhood, and though he found Mr. Crawley in despair, he would leave
him with some drops of comfort in his soul. Nor were the benefits in this respect all on one
side. Mr. Crawley, though at some periods weak enough for himself, could be strong for others;
and, more than once, was strong to the great advantage of this man whom he loved. And then,
too, pecuniary assistance was forthcoming--in those earlier years not in great amount, for
this friend was not then among the rich ones of the earth--but in amount sufficient for that
moderate hearth, if only its acceptance could have been managed. But in that matter there were
difficulties without end. Of absolute money tenders Mr. Crawley would accept none. But a bill
here and there was paid, the wife assisting; and shoes came for Kate--till Kate was placed
beyond the need of shoes; and cloth for Harry and Frank found its way surreptitiously in beneath
the cover of that wife's solitary trunk--cloth with which those lean fingers worked garments
for the two boys, to be worn--such was God's will--only by the one.

Such were Mr. and Mrs. Crawley in their Cornish curacy, and during their severest struggles.
To one who thinks that a fair day's work is worth a fair day's wages, it seems hard enough
that a man should work so hard and receive so little. There will be those who think that the
fault was all his own in marrying so young. But still there remains that question, Is not a
fair day's work worth a fair day's wages? This man did work hard--at a task perhaps the hardest
of any that a man may do; and for ten years he earned some seventy pounds a year. Will any
one say that he received fair wages for his fair work, let him be married or single? And yet
there are so many who would fain pay their clergy, if they only knew how to apply their money!
But that is a long subject, as Mr. Robarts had told Miss Dunstable. Such was Mr. Crawley in
his Cornish curacy.

CHAPTER XV

Lady Lufton's Ambassador

And then, in the days which followed, that friend of Mr. Crawley's, whose name, by the by,
is yet to be mentioned, received quick and great promotion. Mr. Arabin by name he was then;
Dr. Arabin afterwards, when that quick and great promotion reached its climax. He had been
simply a Fellow of Lazarus in those former years. Then he became vicar of St. Ewold's, in East
Barsetshire, and had not yet got himself settled there when he married the Widow Bold, a widow
with belongings in land and funded money, and with but one small baby as an encumbrance. ------------------------------------------ The
completion of the struggles between the old and new citizens, the diverse and relatively successful attempts
aufzuhelfen the middle class, the heart of the new-bourgeois Equality already projected initial formation
of a new aristocracy, and a new democratic party have been so represented. It remains to describe
left, These changes in how the new government was constituted, and how after the political Elimination
of the needle shaft, the three elements of the republican community, citizenship, Magistracy and the
Senate, against each other is presented. The burgesses in their normal Meetings continued to be
the highest authority in the community and the legal sovereign; only been legally established
that, apart from the once and for all the Centuries transferred Decisions, including the election
of consuls and censors, who vote according to district should be just as valid as the Centuries after that
for the patrician-plebeian assembly Valerian-Horat the law of 305 (449) implements and Publilische
of 415 (339) extended, for the special meeting but the plebeian stronghold Sische to 467 (287) prescribed.
That throughout the same individuals were eligible to vote at both meetings, is already been
highlighted, but also that, apart from the exclusion of the patrician from the plebeian Special Assembly,
consistency in the general meeting, all district voters are the same, were in the Zenturiatkomitien
but the effectiveness of voting rights after the Assets of the voters classifying it, so far, however,
the former a leveling and democratic change was. Of far greater importance was that towards the end
of this Period, the ancient condition of voting, the residence for the first time called into
question began to grow. Appius Claudius, the bold innovator, known to the Roman history, Justice
in its censorship 442 (312), without consulting the senate or the people, the citizens list so that
the non grundsaessige man in him any tribe and then after his Fortune in the corresponding centuria
was received. But this change took too much the spirit of the time before, to fully endure.
One of the next successor to the Appius, the famous conqueror of the Samnites, Quintus Fabius
Rullianus over, took it in his Censorship 450 (304) it does not completely eliminate, but to
include in such boundaries, Grundsaessigen that the wealthy and the effective rule in the town
meetings remained. It had not grundsaessigen all people in the four urban tribes, the have now
made the first in rank the last. The rural districts, however, that number between the years
367 (241) and 513 (387) gradually rose from seventeen to thirty-one on, so the house is far from
overwhelming and more and more the superiority of maintaining majority the vocal department,
were reserved for all citizens by law ansa vinegars. In the Centuries, it remained under the
equality and non-ansa ansa vinegars vinegars citizens, as Appius had introduced them. By this way
was advocated that the Tributkomitien the Ansa vinegars predominated, while for the Zenturiatkomitien
in itself that the rich the deciding factors. This wise and moderate setting of a man of his Acts
of war because of how more so because of its legal Friedenstat with the surname of Great (Maximus),
received the one hand the military service was as cheap on the non-ansa vinegars Buerger, covers
worn on the other hand ensure that the district assembly in their Influence, especially that of most
part of the land devoid of been a slave, one bolt was pushed forward, which in a state that allows
slavery, an unfortunately need is essential. A peculiar customs court, which gradually in the
estimation and the inclusion of citizens in circumstances linked list, closed over this from
the burgesses all well-preserved and unworthy individuals from the middle class the moral and political
Purity. The competence of the electors shows the tendency to concentrate more and more, but
very gradually to expand. Even the increase of the magistrates to be elected by the people, belongs
to a certain extent here, it is particularly significant that since 392 (362) war Tribune a legion
Page 443 (311), four in each of the first four legions, not the generals, but were appointed by the
burgesses. In the administration took during this period, the Citizenship in not a whole,
only the right of the declaration of war was hers, as is fitting, strongly held, and specifically
also found for the case where one of peace Instead longer to complete ceasefire expired and while
not legally, but actually a new war began (327 427). Otherwise, was an administrative matter of
almost only the people provided, where the ruling authorities came under in collision and
one of them the case to the people with it - so, as the leader of the moderate party among
the nobility, Lucius Valerius and Marcus Horatius, in 305 (449) and the first plebeian dictator
Gaius Marcus Rutilus in 398 (356) not by the Senate earned triumphs granted were, as the consuls
of 459 (295) over their mutual competence not with each other could agree, and when the Senate
in the year 364 (390) the delivery of a delinquent Messenger, to the Gauls decided Konsulartribun and
therefore to the community turned - It was the first case where a Senate resolution was collected
from the people, and has difficulty it fined the church. Sometimes the government was on the
difficult issues to the people Decision prey: so first, as Caere, after he had declared war
on the people before This really started to bat Peace (401 353), and later, when the Senate
of the humiliating to beat the Samnites sought peace without further concern was (436 318).
Only towards the end of this period we find a much broader engagement of the district assembly and
in administrative matters, especially when the same survey and Friedensschluessen Alliances, it is likely
that this dated back to Hort Sische Act 467 (287). However, despite this expansion of the competence
of the citizens' meetings began same practical effect on affairs of state, rather, especially
against the to the end of this period, disappear. In particular, withdrew the extension of the
boundaries of the Roman Their primary assemblies proper floor. As the Assembly, they could Gemeindesaessigen
very well in sufficient completeness, to meet and missed quite well what they wanted to discuss
without, but the Roman citizenship was now less Community as a state. That cohabiting with each
other brought voted, but in the Roman electors, at least when was voted in by-district, a certain
interdependence and in the development and energy independence here and there, in the Rule, however,
were but the electors in their composition as part of their decision dependent on the personality
of the Chairman and by coincidence the part in the capital citizens domiciled in the hands. It
is therefore perfectly understandable that the. Town meetings, the first two centuries. the
Republic of a large and have practical importance, start gradually, a mere tool in the hands
of the presiding Officials to be; indeed a very dangerous one, for the presidency appointed official
shall many were, and every decision of the municipality was seen as the legitimate expression
of popular will in the last instance. On the expansion but the constitutional right of the
citizens was located so far not much less than this than in the past of its own will and action
was capable, and when there was not a real demagoguery in Rome was - would have such a time
passed, they would have tried to not expand the skills of citizenship, but to unleash the political
debate ahead of the citizens, while at it but the old statutes that only the magistrate appointed
to the citizens to the meeting and that he was out of every debate and every Amendementsstellung
authorized to be content unchanged had. At present, there was this incipient breakdown of the
Constitution mainly only extent that, as the primary assemblies significantly falling behind
and all over in The regiment interfered neither promotes nor disturbing. As for the official force,
was whose impairment is not just the goal of between old and new citizens the battles, but
one of its most important consequences. At the beginning of the staendischen fights, that
is the dispute over the ownership of the consular authority was the Consulate nor the number
and indivisible important royal official power, and had the consul as the former Koenig still all
subordinate officials appointed by their own choice, at the end of that were the major powers:
judicial, road police, senators and knights choice estimation cash management and separated from the
consulate and walked over to an official, which equals the Consul appointed by the community
and much more besides as were under him. The Consulate otherwise the only decent local authority
was now no longer even necessarily the first one: stood in the newly developing declaratory order
of the rank-and habitual Gemeindeaemter Although the consulate about praetorship aedileship
and quaestor, but under the Einschaetzungsamt, except to the most important financial transactions,
the determination of the citizens, Knight and Senator list quite arbitrarily and thus a moral
control over the entire Community and individuals to minimize the most distinguished citizens
came. Which in the initial Roman state law with the concept of the major office appears incompatible
concept of limited Official authority or the expertise to train and gradually broke shredded
and destroyed the older of the one and indivisible empire. Already made a beginning to the
establishment the Permanent Nebenaemter, including the quaestor, she was completely carried
out by Licinian the law (387 367), which of the three highest officials of the municipality, the
first both for management and warfare, the third line specific for the court. But it did not
stop here. The consuls, though they are legally and quite everywhere competed divided, but of course
since the earliest times indeed the various business circles (Provincia) among themselves.
Originally it was only by free agreement or their absence, by solving happened, but gradually
attacked the other constitutive Forces in the community in these actual competence Rules. It
was usual for the Senate year after year surrounded the business circles and not actually under
the competing officials distributed, but by counsel, and request also to the people issues acts
decisively. Extreme case obtained by the Senate and probably a municipal decision the competence issue
decided definitely, but the government has this dubious way applied only very rarely. In addition,
the most important matters, such as the Friedensschluesse, the consuls and deprived them compelled,
in this case to the Senate to and appeal to proceed under his instruction. For the extreme
case, could finally the Senate at any time suspend the consuls from office by following a never
legally established and never actually practice violated the entrance of the dictatorship, only
the decision Senate contingent and the determination of the person to be appointed, although
constitutionally in appointed the consul, but was in substance a rule in the Senate. Longer
than in Consulate of the dictatorship remained in the old unit and Rechtsfuelle the empire included; although
of course as an extraordinary magistracy of the case of house from a special competence had,
there were such a law for the dictator is still far less than for the consul. However, they
also gradually took the new entrants in the Roman law concept of life skills. First, 391 (363)
met from a theological scruples expressly only to the execution a religious ceremony appointed
dictator, and if this self still, without doubt formally constitutionally, who treated him as nothing,
and their competence set, despite the Army command took over, then repeated in the subsequent,
similarly constrained appointments the first 403 (351) and meet very frequently since then, that
opposition to the Magistracy not, but the dictators now considered themselves bound by their
special skills. At last were in the 412 (342) adopted the prohibition against overlapping ordinary
curule offices and simultaneously in the provision that the same man the same office are generally
not before Expiration of a ten-year interval should be able to manage, and later in the provision that
indeed the highest office, the censorship at all, not a second to be held allowed (489 265),
another very sensitive restrictions on the magistracy. But the government was still strong enough
to fear their tools and not just about the most useful purpose to leave unused; brave officers
were often exempted from those provisions ^ 5, and it came before or cases like that of Quintus
Fabius Rullianus that in twenty-eight Years was five times consul, and Marcus Valerius Corvus (384-483 370-271),
who, after he was six consulates, the first in the twenty-third, seventy-second in the last years,
and managed through three generations of the Lair of the peasants and the terror of the enemy had been,
century old went to the pit. ------------------------------------------------- ^ 5 Who Konsularverzeichnisse
before and after 412 (342) compares, is the existence of above-mentioned law no doubt about the re-election
to the consulate, because so common before this year, the re-clothing of the Office, especially
after three to four years, so frequently after the Zwischenraeume of ten years and above. But
there are, especially during the difficult war years 434-443 (320-311), except in very large
number Strictly If, however, held on the inadmissibility of Aemterkumulierung. There is no safe Example
of combining two of the three regular curule (Livy 39, 39, 4) offices (Consulate, Praetorship curule
aedileship), but other types of cumulation, such as the curule Aedileship and Reiterfuehreramts
(Livy 23 24, 30); the praetorship and censorship (Fast. Capitol. a 501), and the dictatorship of praetorship
(Livy 8, 12), the Consulate and the dictatorship (Livy 8, 12). -------------------------------------------------
During So the Roman officials always complete and more certain of the unlimited Lord in the bound Contractor
and managing the community transformed itself, subject to the old Gegenmagistratur, the Tribune, while
a like more internal than external transformation. The same was in the community to a dual
purpose. It had been determined by house, the poor and the weak. by a virtually revolutionary
auxiliary power (auxilium) to protect against the arrogance of officials of violent and it was
later used Back to the legal settlement of bourgeois and privileges of the nobility sex to eliminate.
The latter was achieved. The original purpose was not merely to be more a democratic ideal as
a political opportunity, but also the plebeian aristocracy in whose hands the tribune had located
and considered fully as hated and with the new, resulting from the adjustment of the stands,
perhaps more decisively colored than the previous aristocratic, totally incompatible with the
municipal code as well, as it hated the sex and needle incompatible with the patrician Konsularverfassung
had been. But instead of abolishing the tribune, preferred; it from a tools of turn create opposition
to a government body and pulled the tribunes of the people, from the House of all eligible
to participate in the management and neither officials nor members of the Senate were now into
the circle of the ruling authorities. If they are in the jurisdiction from the start were equal to
the consuls and even in the first stages of staendischen struggles the same initiative that the legislators
bought, so they received now, we know not sure when, but probably at or soon after finally balancing
the stalls, same position with the consuls over actual governing body, the Senate. So far
they had, sitting on a bench at the door, attended the Senate hearing, now they were the same and
in addition to other officials, their place in the Senate itself and the right to take in negotiating
the word, and if they failed to vote did so was this is just an application of the general
principle of Roman constitutional law that the Council just gave, who was not called into action
and while that is all working officials their year of office seating only, not voice approached
the local council.
 It cannot be that I have had a hypocrite beside me in all those eager controversies!

"Not a hypocrite--not a hypocrite," said Mark, in a tone which was almost reduced to sobbing.

"But a castaway! Is it so that I must call you? No, Mr. Robarts, not a castaway; neither a
hypocrite, nor a castaway; but one who in walking has stumbled in the dark and bruised his
feet among the stones. Henceforth let him take a lantern in his hand, and look warily to his
path, and walk cautiously among the thorns and rocks--cautiously, but yet boldly, with manly
courage, but Christian meekness, as all men should walk on their pilgrimage through this vale
of tears." And then, without giving his companion time to stop him he hurried out of the room,
and from the house, and without again seeing any others of the family, stalked back on his
road to Hogglestock, thus tramping fourteen miles through the deep mud in performance of the
mission on which he had been sent.

It was some hours before Mr. Robarts left his room. As soon as he found that Crawley was really
gone, and that he should see him no more, he turned the lock of his door, and sat himself down
to think over his present life. At about eleven his wife knocked, not knowing whether that
other strange clergyman were there or no, for none had seen his departure. But Mark, answering
cheerily, desired that he might be left to his studies. Let us hope that his thoughts and mental
resolves were then of service to him.

CHAPTER XVI

Mrs. Podgens' Baby

The hunting season had now nearly passed away, and the great ones of the Barsetshire world
were thinking of the glories of London. Of these glories Lady Lufton always thought with much
inquietude of mind. She would fain have remained throughout the whole year at Framley Court,
did not certain grave considerations render such a course on her part improper in her own estimation.
All the Lady Luftons of whom she had heard, dowager and ante-dowager, had always had their
seasons in London, till old age had incapacitated them for such doings--sometimes for clearly
long after the arrival of such period. And then she had an idea, perhaps not altogether erroneous,
that she annually imported back with her into the country somewhat of the passing civilization
of the times:--may we not say an idea that certainly was not erroneous? for how otherwise is
it that the forms of new caps and remodelled shapes for women's waists find their way down
into agricultural parts, and that the rural eye learns to appreciate grace and beauty? There
are those who think that remodelled waists and new caps had better be kept to the towns; but
such people, if they would follow out their own argument, would wish to see plough-boys painted
with ruddle and milkmaids covered with skins. For these and other reasons Lady Lufton always
went to London in April, and stayed there till the beginning of June. But for her this was
usually a period of penance. In London she was no very great personage. She had never laid
herself out for greatness of that sort, and did not shine as a lady-patroness or state secretary
in the female cabinet of fashion. She was dull and listless, and without congenial pursuits
in London, and spent her happiest moments in reading accounts of what was being done at Framley,
and in writing orders for further local information of the same kind. But on this occasion
there was a matter of vital import to give an interest of its own to her visit to town. She
was to entertain Griselda Grantly, and, as far as might be possible, to induce her son to remain
in Griselda's society. The plan of the campaign was to be as follows:--Mrs. Grantly and the
archdeacon were in the first place to go up to London for a month, taking Griselda with them;
and then, when they returned to Plumstead, Griselda was to go to Lady Lufton. This arrangement
was not at all points agreeable to Lady Lufton, for she knew that Mrs. Grantly did not turn
her back on the Hartletop people quite as cordially as she should do, considering the terms
of the Lufton-Grantly family treaty. But then Mrs. Grantly might have alleged in excuse the
slow manner in which Lord Lufton proceeded in the making and declaring of his love, and the
absolute necessity which there is for two strings to one's bow, when one string may be in any
way doubtful. Could it be possible that Mrs. Grantly had heard anything of that unfortunate
Platonic friendship with Lucy Robarts?

There came a letter from Mrs. Grantly just about the end of March, which added much to Lady
Lufton's uneasiness, and made her more than ever anxious to be herself on the scene of action,
and to have Griselda in her own hands. After some communications of mere ordinary importance
with reference to the London world in general and the Lufton-Grantly world in particular, Mrs.
Grantly wrote confidentially about her daughter:--"It would be useless to deny," she said,
with a mother's pride and a mother's humility, "that she is very much admired. She is asked
out a great deal more than I can take her, and to houses to which I myself by no means wish
to go. I could not refuse her as to Lady Hartletop's first ball, for there will be nothing
else this year like them; and of course when with you, dear Lady Lufton, that house will be
out of the question. was
no doubt, as the plebeians a written common law sought by the patricians replied that it would
redress the tribunician superfluous, and then seems be yielded by both sides. It was probably
never very determined as it should be for drafting the land law, but in the definitive renunciation
of the plebs the tribune is no doubt because the same was by the Dezemvirat in a position not
can be different to unlawful means to regain the tribune. The populace of the given Promise that
their vaunted freedoms should be respected, can be obtained to the independent rights of the tribunes
of the plebeians, as the provocation and the possession of the Aventine. been the intention seems
to be that the Zehnmaenner in their resignation the people should suggest that now is no longer
at will, but according to written Law judging consuls to choose again. The plan, if it existed,
was wise, it was depends on whether passionately strokes the fierce tempers and over there this
peaceful Discharge would accept. The decemvirs the year 303 (451) brought its law before the
people and confirmed this was the same, buried in ten copper plates on the market at the Rednerbuehne
posted outside the Town Hall. Since, however, still require a supplement seemed then one appointed
to the year 304 (450) again Zehnmaenner that still hinzufuegten two panels; The result was the
first and only Roman land law, the law of the Twelve Tables. It was of compromise of the parties
out and you're so deep, ancillary to and beyond mere Zweckmaessigkeitsbestimmungen changes to
existing law does not have probably mentioned. Even in the credit system occurred, no further
mitigation, as that one - probably low - interest rate maximum (10 percent) found with the usurer
severe Punishment - was threatened - characteristically enough with a far heavier than the thief,
the strict liability process was at least an unchanged in its main elements. Changes in the
staendischen Rights were understandably less intended, the legal difference between taxable no
assets and citizens, the invalidity of a marriage between nobles and citizens Lichen have
been confirmed but again in the city due, and limiting the Beamtenwillkuer and protect the citizen of
an explicit requirement that the subsequent law thoroughly the former regime and concluded that no nation will
be issued against an individual citizen should. Most notable is the exclusion of provocation
in the Tribuskomitien Capital goods, while the ward gewaehrleistet the Centuries: what explains
the fact that the criminal justice system was usurped by the plebs and their chiefs in the
act and with the tribunal and the process necessary tribunician capital fell, while it might the
intention was to keep the process aedilizischen Mult. The major political importance was far
less in the content of Weistum than in the now formally established commitment the consuls
to speak to this process forms and rules of law that the law and in the public statement of the
Law Code whereby the legal management of the monitoring of publicity subject and the consul was
compelled to talk all truly equal and common law. The output of the Dezemvirats is in deep darkness.
It was - as reported - the Zehnmaennern only remained, and publish the final two tables and then the
ordinary magistracy to make room. They hesitated, however, under the pretext that the law still
does not was finished, they did even after the end of next year in office to office what extent possible
was as under Roman law, the state extraordinary as to revise the Constitution Magistrates appointed
by the strict deadline set their conditions can not be bound. The moderate faction of the aristocracy,
the Horatii and Valerii at their head, should attempted to force the abdication of the Senate decemvirs:
but the head of the Zehnmaenner, Appius Claudius, by nature a rigid aristocrat, but now turn
to demagogues and a tyrant, gained the upper hand in the Senate, and also the people complied. The
excavation a double army was accomplished without opposition and the war against the Volscians
as started against the Sabines. As has been the tribune Lucius Siccius dentate, the bravest
man in Rome who fought battles in one hundred and twenty and forty-five honorable show scars,
had found dead in front of the camp, treacherously murdered, as was said, at the instigation of Zehnmaenner.
The revolution gardens in the minds, the outbreak did to the unjust verdict of Appius in the
process to the freedom of the daughter of the centurions Lucius Verginius, the bride of the past
tribune Lucius Icilius, saying the girl who snatched yours, to make it non-free and without
rights and the father moved to his daughter on the open market to push the knife himself in
the chest, some of them to shame snatch. While the people whether the unprecedented action solidifies
the body of the beautiful girl fact, ordered the Dezemvir his henchmen, the father and then
the groom before his to lead chair, was to him, from whose decision no appeal, immediately
available for speech their rebellion against his authority. Now the amount was full. Protected by the
roaring masses deprive the father of the groom and the girl is the pursuer of violence Lord, and While
in Rome, the Senate trembles and wavers, the two appear with numerous witnesses the terrible
acts in the two camps. The unheard reported; opens before all eyes the gap that has left the
tribunician lack of protection of legal certainty, and what did the fathers, the sons again. Again
leave the army their leader; they go to military order by the city and again on the sacred mountain
where appoint them again to their Tribune. Still refusing to resign the decemvirs their power:
there appears the army with its tribunes in the city and deposited on the Aventine. Now, at last, where
the civil war was already there and start fighting the road every hour could now renounce the
Zehnmaenner their usurped and dishonored God, and the consuls Lucius Valerius and Marcus Horatius
give a second comparison by which the People's Tribunal was restored. The charges against the decemvirs
ended so that the two most guilty, Appius Claudius and Spurius Oppius, in the prison took the
lives, eight others went into exile and the state moved their assets. Other judicial persecution
inhibited the wise and moderate tribune Marcus Duilius by the timely use his veto. This is
the story of how recorded the style of Roman aristocrats, they may be impossible but, even
apart from the Nebenumstaenden, the great crisis, which, has Twelve panels sprang into those
romantic adventurism and political incomprehensibilities have expired. The Dezemvirat was after the
abolition of the monarchy and the establishment the tribune of the third major victory of the
plebs and the bitterness of the other party against against the institution as their main Appius Claudius
is easily explained. The plebeians had thus won the right to stand on the highest municipal
office and the common law country; and they were, had the cause to rebel against the new magistracy
and to restore by force the purely patrician Konsularregiment. This goal can only have been persecuted
by the aristocratic party, and when the patrician-plebeian decemvirs the Attempt made to maintain
over time to head out in office, then certainly the other hand, in the first row of the needle entered
the lists, and he certainly did not fail is to argue that indeed the plebs diminished their
legal rights, in particular the tribune was taken from it. Succeeded, it is then the needle to remove the
decemvirs so However, it conceivable that after the fall of the plebs now again met in arms,
the results of both the former Revolution of 260 as well as the most recent movement, secure,
and only as a compromise in this conflict, let the Valerian-Horat laws understanding of 305 (449)
itself. The comparison was of course quite as in favor of the plebeians and restricts again
in a sensitive manner, the power of the nobility. That the tribune restored, the noted the
nobles extorted city definitely right and the consuls to act accordingly were required is
self lost through the city right However, the tribes the usurped jurisdiction in capital matters,
but the Tribune received they return, by providing a way was found to them in such cases, the negotiation
with the Centuries to make possible. Besides, they remained in the law, without restriction
on fines to identify and bring this message to the Tribuskomitien, sufficient resources, the to destroy
bourgeois existence of the patrician opponent. It was also at the request of Consuls of the
Centuries decided that in future, any magistrate, including the dictator should be required for his
appointment to accept the challenge, and whoever the contrary appointed an official, lost his
head. For the rest of the dictator kept the previous Violence and could not cash in particular
the Tribune his official acts as those of the consuls. A further restriction of the consular Machtfuelle
was that the administration of the war chest two (quaestores) from the community selected number
masters was transferred, the first for appointed 307 (447). The appointment of either of the two
new paymaster for the war as well as both the city treasurer was now over to the community, the
Consul retained instead of choosing only the election management. The Assembly, elected in the paymaster
were, was that of all the patrician-plebeian ansa vinegars people and agreed to From neighborhoods,
which also has a concession to those meetings much more than the Zenturiatkomitien dominant peasantry
is plebeian. Follow-rich yet it was admitted that the tribunes share in the negotiations was
in the Senate. While in the meeting room the Tribune seemed to admit, the Senate under his
dignity; them was a bank on the Door set to follow from there the negotiations. The tribunician
Interzessionsrecht had also extends to the decisions of the whole Senate, since that advice from
a become an Authority decided was what probably first occurred in the case where a Plebiscite
for the whole community should be authentic, of course, was that since the tribunes of some participation
in the negotiations in the Curia POWER. In order to be protected against substitution and adulteration
of Senatsbeschluessen to the validity of indeed the most important of plebiscites was linked,
was decreed that in future the same not merely in the patrician Stadtquaestoren in Saturn,
but also for the plebeian Aediles in Ceres should be filed. So ended this battle that was started
to eliminate the power of the People's Tribune, but with the time and now definitive sanction
their right both individual administrative acts to call the person charged and any resolution,
acquisition the constituent state authorities to collect at its discretion. With the most sacred
oaths and all which offered the religion awesome, and no less formal with the laws was again
both the person of the Tribune as the continuous time and the completeness of the college secured.
It has since then never again made an attempt in Rome, this Magistrates should be repealed. 3.
Chapter The adjustment of the stands and the new aristocracy, the tribunician movements appear
preferably in the social, not political emerged to be a disparity and there is good reason exists
to believe that part of the assets, not in the Senate received the same poor plebeians was
opposed as the patricians, for the privilege against which the movement is preferably was directed,
benefitted them too, and if it again in another relationship, were set back, it did them no
means at the time seem, their claims make to participate in the offices that, while the whole Senate
in its financial Special power was threatened. This explains that during the first fifty years
of the Republic no step was taken, the aim of which almost to political stabilization of the stalls.
Solo a guarantee from the time was this alliance of patricians and plebeians of the rich but
in no wise. Without doubt had a part of the distinguished families of plebeian house from the movement
party joined, partly out Billigkeitsgefuehl against their peers, partly due to the natural of all federal
Recessed, sometimes at length, because they understood inevitable that concessions to the crowd
were on the length and that, used properly, the elimination of privileges for violations of the
patrician and the plebeian order The aristocracy in the state would give decisive weight. If
this conviction, as could not miss, broke into wider circles, and the aristocracy from the plebeian
Top of their class struggle against the nobility took up sex, it was in the tribune the civil
war by law in his hand and was able to battle with the social emergency propose to dictate
the peace terms and the nobility as a mediator between the two For the parties themselves
to enforce access to the offices. Such a turning point in the position the parties occurred
after the fall of Dezemvirats. It was now perfectly clear that the tribune did not eliminate,
the plebeian aristocracy could not Better to do than to take possession of this mighty lever
and the same for disposal to use the political neglect of their state. How helpless the sex of
the needle united populace faced, nothing shows so evident as that of the Fundamental Theorem the
exclusive party, the invalidity of a marriage between nobles and citizens Lichen, barely four fell
Dezemviralrevolution years after the first blow. In the year 309 (445) was Canuleische the plebiscite
decreed that the marriage between nobles and citizens as a Lichen Roman law should apply and
follow the children produced from the state of the father. At the same time also made sure that
instead of consuls Tribune war - there was the Back then, the division of the army in legions, six,
and then straightened, the number these magistrates - with consular power ^ 1 and consular term
of the Centuries should be chosen.
 I understand," he said; and rising from his chair, he stood against the chimney-piece
with his back to the fire. "She cannot leave me alone to choose for myself, my friends, and
my own--;" but he did not fill up the void.

"But why tell me this, Lord Lufton?"

"No! I am not to choose my own friends, though they be amongst the best and purest of God's
creatures. Lucy, I cannot think that you have ceased to have a regard for me. That you had
a regard for me, I am sure." She felt that it was almost unmanly of him thus to seek her out,
and hunt her down, and then throw upon her the whole weight of the explanation that his coming
thither made necessary. He made the summer over
the top Sennhuette its cheese, and only in late fall, he returned to his mother down to spend
the winter with her. Because then he chipped in at the bottom Sennhuette, that was quite close.
Since about the raging flood Bach is no base, were the two Little house completely separated.
And Mrs. Vizenze knew people who lived much further away, better, as these neighbors over the
stream to which they hinueberschaute only about once a day in silence. Usually she shook her
head in a dire way, if the black faces and dirty rags over there on the children saw. She looked
over but not often, because not liked the sight of her. Rather they looked when the Feierabendstuendchen
came their red carnations on the gallery and looked down over the green, sunny slope, the front
of their house to the valley descended.

The feral children heard over the creek the Haelmli-Joe, as he was called, the his work outside
the home or the woodcutter tried haymaking. He also was also charged up the hill. He was mostly
in the valley or on the trails in the area. The Woman had to do enough at home. But they seemed
to think so many young children can you do not keep in order, and later it would be of even
better. So she left everything , How did it go. And in the beautiful, pure air, they were all
alive and well and let's be on the grass around the ground and sliding crawling, be well.


"The world shall say no such thing!" said Lord Lufton, very imperiously.

"Ah! but it will. You can no more stop it, than King Canute could the waters. Your mother has
interfered wisely to spare me from this; and the only favour that I can ask you is, that you
will spare me also." And then she got up, as though she intended at once to walk forth to her
visit to Mrs. Podgens' baby.

"Stop, Lucy!" he said, putting himself between her and the door.

"It must not be Lucy any longer, Lord Lufton; I was madly foolish when I first allowed it."

"By heavens! but it shall be Lucy--Lucy before all the world. My Lucy, my own Lucy--my heart's
best friend, and chosen love. Lucy, there is my hand. How long you may have had my heart it
matters not to say now." The game was at her feet now, and no doubt she felt her triumph. Her
ready wit and speaking lip, not her beauty, had brought him to her side; and now he was forced
to acknowledge that her power over him had been supreme. Sooner than leave her he would risk
all. She did feel her triumph; but there was nothing in her face to tell him that she did so.
As to what she would now do she did not for a moment doubt. He had been precipitated into the
declaration he had made not by his love, but by his embarrassment. She had thrown in his teeth
the injury which he had done her, and he had then been moved by his generosity to repair that
injury by the noblest sacrifice which he could make. But Lucy Robarts was not the girl to accept
a sacrifice. He had stepped forward as though he were going to clasp her round the waist, but
she receded, and got beyond the reach of his hand. "Lord Lufton!" she said, "when you are more
cool you will know that this is wrong. The best thing for both of us now is to part."

"Not the best thing, but the very worst, till we perfectly understand each other."

"Then perfectly understand me, that I cannot be your wife."

"Lucy! do you mean that you cannot learn to love me?"

"I mean that I shall not try. Do not persevere in this, or you will have to hate yourself for
your own folly."

"But I will persevere till you accept my love, or say with your hand on your heart that you
cannot and will not love me."

"Then I must beg you to let me go," and having so said, she paused while he walked once or
twice hurriedly up and down the room. "And Lord Lufton," she continued, "if you will leave
me now, the words that you have spoken shall be as though they had never been uttered."

"I care not who knows they have been uttered. The sooner that they are known to all the world
the better I shall be pleased, unless indeed--"

"Think of your mother, Lord Lufton."

"What can I do better than give her as a daughter the best and sweetest girl I have ever met?
When my mother really knows you, she will love you as I do. Lucy, say one word to me of comfort."

"I will say no word to you that shall injure your future comfort. It is impossible that I should
be your wife."

"Do you mean that you cannot love me?"

"You have no right to press me any further," she said; and sat down upon the sofa, with an
angry frown upon her forehead.

"By heavens," he said, "I will take no such answer from you till you put your hand upon your
heart, and say that you cannot love me."

"Oh, why should you press me so, Lord Lufton?"

"Why, because my happiness depends upon it; because it behoves me to know the very truth. It
has come to this, that I love you with my whole heart, and I must know how your heart stands
towards me." She had now again risen from the sofa, and was looking steadily in his face.

"Lord Lufton," she said, "I cannot love you," and as she spoke she did put her hand, as he
had desired, upon her heart.

"Then God help me! for I am wretched. Good-bye, Lucy," and he stretched out his hand to her.

"Good-bye, my lord. Do not be angry with me."

"No, no, no!" and without further speech he left the room and the house and hurried home. It
was hardly surprising that he should that evening tell his mother that Griselda Grantly would
be a companion sufficiently good for his sister. He wanted no such companion.

And when he was well gone--absolutely out of sight from the window--Lucy walked steadily up
to her room, locked the door, and then threw herself on the bed. Why--oh! why had she told
such a falsehood? Could anything justify her in a lie? was it not a lie--knowing as she did
that she loved him with all her loving heart? But, then, his mother! and the sneers of the
world, which would have declared that she had set her trap, and caught the foolish young lord!
Her pride would not have submitted to that. Strong as her love was, yet her pride was, perhaps,
stronger--stronger at any rate during that interview. But how was she to forgive herself the
falsehood she had told?

CHAPTER XVII

Mrs. Proudie's Conversazione

It was grievous to think of the mischief and danger into which Griselda Grantly was brought
by the worldliness of her mother in those few weeks previous to Lady Lufton's arrival in town--very
grievous, at least, to her ladyship, as from time to time she heard of what was done in London.
Lady Hartletop's was not the only objectionable house at which Griselda was allowed to reap
fresh fashionable laurels. It had been stated openly in the Morning Post that that young lady
had been the most admired among the beautiful at one of Miss Dunstable's celebrated soirées
and then she was heard of as gracing the drawing-room at Mrs. Proudie's conversazione.

Of Miss Dunstable herself Lady Lufton was not able openly to allege any evil. She was acquainted,
Lady Lufton knew, with very many people of the right sort, and was the dear friend of Lady
Lufton's highly conservative and not very distant neighbours, the Greshams. But then she was
also acquainted with so many people of the bad sort. Indeed, she was intimate with everybody,
from the Duke of Omnium to old Dowager Lady Goodygaffer, who had represented all the cardinal
virtues for the last quarter of a century. When it was over, made a round of applause, loud and thunderous. Marie smiled and
bowed. The mother came up the three steps to the podium, grabbed Marie with the poor was in
the air as she sought the hands of the mother, but the applause so strong that it is equal had
to sing her second song, which Charles had already heard of the fifty times. It started To:
"Today I'm going threw my treasure to the country ...,« and Marie head so happily in the Height
rocked so easily back and forth as if they really go with her treasure to the country, could the
blue sky, green meadows and see the outdoors, dancing like she's in the song said. And then she
sang the third, the new song. -

"This would be a small Garterl," said Mr. Rebay, and Karl started. It was bright sunshine; shone
far into the street, all around it was light and lively.

"Because you can 'put into it, you are," Rebay continued, "for a glass of wine, I've had a
wicked thirst - it will be a hot day."

"Whether it's getting hot," said someone behind them. Breiteneder turned around ... How, who was
run after him? ... What was because of him? ... It was the foolish Jedek; had otherwise he never
called, but there was no doubt that he seriously in the near future and had to be completely
crazy. A few days ago he had his long pale woman alive threatened, and it was puzzling that
they let him roam free. Now he slipped in his dwarfish littleness along with Karl along, stared
out of the yellow face, torn, inexplicably funny eyes into the distance, sat him on the head
of the prominent, soft gray Hütel with the worn spring in his hand he held a thin Spazierstaberl.
And now, the other suddenly forward, he had jumped into the small guest house garden, had
to a wooden bench, leaning against the lower house, taken a seat, struck with the cane violently
on the table grüngestrichnen and called for the waiter.

The two others followed him. Along the green wooden bars stretched further up the white road,
with small, sad Villas over and lost in the woods.

The waiter brought wine. Rebay put the cylinder on the table, drove by the white Hair, rubbed himself
with both hands as his custom, the smooth cheeks, pushed Jedeks Glass aside and leaned across
the table to Karl. "I am pleased them not auf'n head Lord of Breiteneder! I know what to do! ...
Why should I be guilty?

... Knowledge S ', for whom I have couplets written in my younger
years?

... Für'n Matras! This is no small matter! And attention have made! Words and Music by me!
And many are in other Pack 'has been inserted! "

"Let S stand 'the glass," said Jedek and chuckled to himself.

"Please, Lord of Breiteneder," continued Rebay and pushed the glass back on its own. "You know
me and you know that I am a decent man! There's also in my Couplets never any impropriety, never
a dirty joke! ... And the couplet, because of the old shop fitter then been convicted is, was
another! ... And today I'm sixty-eight Lord of Breiteneder - this is a numerology! And You know,
how I long for the G'sellschaft Shopfitters I? ... Since, the Edward
shopfitters lived, who founded the G'sellschaft added.

And the Marie I know right from birth. Twenty-nine year I am with the store builder - Next March,
I've anniversary ... And I have my tunes g'stohlen not - they are from me, all me! And you know
how much you have g'spielt in time to pottering? ... Eighteen! Net true Jedek ?...«

Jedek constantly laughed silently, her eyes. Now he had to make all three glasses esch hung up his
seat and began to remove his fingers lightly over the edges. It sounded fine, a bit touching,
like distant oboe and clarinet sounds. Breiteneder had This skill always greatly admired, but
at that moment he tolerated the sounds not at all. At the other tables to be heard, some people
nodded in satisfaction, a thick Mr. clapped his hands. Suddenly pushed Jedek all three glasses
off again, crossed the Arms and stared at the white road, the more and more people up to the forest
against immigrants. Karl, it flickered before his eyes, and it seemed as if the people behind
Cobwebs danced and floated.

He rubbed his forehead and eyelids, he wanted to be .

Come He could not help it! It was a terrible accident - but he had not yet fault! And suddenly
he stood up, because he thought at the end, it was his Chest burst. "Let's go," he said.

Yes, fresh air is the main thing, "said Rebay.

Jedek had suddenly become angry, no one knew why. He stood in front of a table direction and on
which sat a peaceful couple waved and yelled his Spazierstaberl in a high voice: "There is the
devil be a glass - sky and manure" The two peaceful! People were embarrassed and wanted to appease
him, the others laughed and held him for drunk.

Breiteneder and Rebay were already on the white road, and Jedek again become calm, came to them
nachgetänzelt. He took off his gray Hütel, hung it on his walking stick and held the floor with
his hat over his shoulder like a rifle, while with the other massive greeting movements leading
up to the sky full.

"You do not need to believe that I want to apologize," she said with chattering Rebay Teeth.
"Oho got, no reason! Absolutely not! I've had the best intentions, and everyone will admit it
to me. I have not rehearsed the song for himself with it? ... Please, yes! Yes, even as the
blindfold is sitting in the room, I've's rehearsed with her ... And You know, I'm coming up with
the idea?

It is a misfortune I've thought to myself, but it is not lost.

Her voice she has, and her beautiful face ... Even the mother's g'sagt I, which was quite desperate.
Mrs. shopfitters, I've told her there's nothing lost - fit S 'only! And then, today, where
there are these institutions for the blind, where they learn to read even with time and write
... And then I knew one - a young man who is blind at twenty been. Who dreamed every night of
the most beautiful fireworks, all kinds of lighting ... "

Breiteneder laughed.

»Speeches S 'serious?" He asked.

"Oh!" Rebay said roughly, "what do you want? Should I kill myself, I ...? Why then? - In my
soul, I've had enough bad luck in the world! - Or do you mean by that is a life of Mr Breiteneder,
once you have written plays such as I young man, and one is with sixty-eight finally so far that
one miserable on a must accompany Klimperkasten shabby for some cruisers, the hoarse sluts, and
give them the couplets Leave ... You know, what I get for a couplet
war'?... You want to be surprised, Mr. by Breiteneder!

"

"But they are playing on the street organ," said Jedek, now very serious and mannerly, even
elegant walking beside them.

"What do you because of me?" Said Breiteneder. He was suddenly, as it pursued the two, and he
did not know why. What he had to do with people? ... Rebay said Next: got "An existence found the
girl I want to ...! Understanding S ', a new life! ... Degree with the new song! ... With
the degree! ... And it is perhaps not beautiful? ... Is not it touching ?...«

The small Jedek suddenly stopped Breiteneder back by the sleeve, raised his index finger left
hand, commanding attention, pursed his lips and whistled.

He whistled the melody of the new song that Marie Bauer store, called "the" white blackbird, was
still sung at night. He whistled almost completed, for even that belonged to his art skills.

"The
melody's has not done," said Breiteneder.

"Why?" Cried Rebay. - They all went quickly, almost running, but the way considerably increased.
"Why, Lord of Breiteneder? ... The text is to blame, believe S'?... Yes to God sake, is because
the text was different from what the Virgin Mary has even known? ... And her room, as I have it
rehearsed her, she has not cried once. She has g'sagt: "This is a sad song, Mr. Rebay, but
beautiful is !...«'s" Beautiful, is it, "she added said ... Yes, indeed it is a sad song, Lord
of Breiteneder - it is also a Los sad what has happened to her. Since I can write her but not
a funny song ?...«

The road was lost in the woods.

Through the branches, the sun shone, sounded from the bushes Laughter
sounded calls.

They all three together, so quickly, as did the one others run away. Suddenly, Rebay began
again: "And the people - Cross Damn! - Have they do not applaud like crazy? ... I've even known
in advance, with the song it is have a great success! - And it has
made her a joy ... laughed formally she has all over his face, and
the last stanza to repeat them.

And it is also a touching verse! as it occurred to me, I have myself the tears come in the eye
- Know S 'for its allusion to the other song she sings ... "And he
sang, or rather, he said, except that he came out the rhyming words
are like an organ tone, "How beautiful it was earlier on in the world
- where the sun has me g'schienen on forest and Field, - Where I Sunday
walks with my 'I treasure the country - and he took me out of love
only performed by the hand. - Now I get the sun never on and the star
'- And happiness and love are to me so far!

"

"Enough," cried Breiteneder, "I've just heard!"

"Is it perhaps not beautiful?" Said Rebay and swung the cylinder. "There are not many; make
such couplets now. Five Gulden gave me the old shop fitter ... the Are my fees, Lord of Breiteneder.
And I've got it yet rehearsed with her. "

And Jedek again raised the index finger and the chorus sang very softly:
'Oh God, how bitter is happen to me - that I should never see the
spring ... "

"So why, I ask !...« Rebay said.

"Why? ... Immediately afterwards I was with her in it ... Is not
it, Jedek?

... And it is dag'sessen with a blissful smile, she has Quart of wine drunk, and I've stroked
the hair 'and gave her g'sagt: "Well see, you, Marie, how has pleased the people? Now folks are
certainly 'out of town to us come out, the song will make a stir ... And you do sing's gorgeous
... "And so Next, what is just so's talking, on such occasions ... And the host is also come
in and congratulated her.

And flowers she got - you were not s', Lord of Breiteneder ... And everything was fine ... So
why should my couplet as his fault? This is yes nonsense! "

Suddenly Breiteneder are Rebay and grabbed by the shoulders. "Why did S ' you then said that I
am there? ... Why? ... Have I asked you not, that's it, you not have said? "

"Let S 'me out! I have not told her! From the old will have heard of it! "

"No," said Jedek binding and bowed, "I took the liberty of Mr. Breiteneder - I was so free. Because
I've g'wußt, you are there, I got her g'sagt that you are there. And g'fragt because it has
so often to you while she was sick, I g'sagt her: 'The Lord Breiteneder is da ... He is back at the
Lantern g'standen, <I g'sagt her, 'and has talk great! '"

"Really?" Said Breiteneder. He strangled the throat, and he had his eyes away from contact
the fixed gaze, the Jedek held on him. Exhausted, he sat down on a bench they passed on the
flat, and closed his eyes. He saw himself suddenly sitting in the garden, and the voice of the
old woman shopfitters it sounded in my ear: "The Marie let you greet nicely: if you do not want
to come with us after the show? "He remembered how he as become at once felt like it, so wonderfully
well, as he would have forgiven Marie. He drank his wine and asked for the better. He drank so much
that he is the whole life seemed easier. Absolutely delighted he saw and heard the following
productions to, clapping as the other people, and when the idea from, he was in good humor by the garden
and the hall to the private room of the inn, at the round corner table, where the Company after
the performance usually gathered. Some were already there: the Wagels-Wiegel, Jedek with his
wife, any man with a pair of glasses that Karl did not know - all welcomed him and were not particularly
surprised to see him again. Suddenly he heard the voice St. Mary's behind him. "I find out already,
mother, I know the way so he" did not dare turning around, but she was already sitting next
to him and said, "Good evening, Breiteneder - How are you then, "And in that moment he remembered
also that she at that time? to any young person who had once been her lover, later on you " and
"Lord said." And then they ate their supper, they had all their pre-cut sat down, and the
whole company was cheerful and happy, as would have changed anything at all. "Good is 'expected,'
said the old shop fitter. "Come on better times." Mrs. Jedek told that all the voice of Marie
had found much more beautiful than before, and Mr. Wiegel-Wagels raised his glass and said, "To
the health of the fit-again" Marie held her glass in the air! all clinked glasses with her, even
Karl did with his glass against hers. Since it was as if they their dead eyes would sink into his, and
when she could look deeply into it. The brother was there, dressed very elegantly, and offered
Charles a cigar. The funniest Ilka was, her suitor, a young fat man in an anguished face, sat
opposite her and talked with Mr. lively shop fitters. Jedek woman but had her yellow rain coat
not stored and looked into a corner where nothing could be seen. Two or three times were People
from a nearby table over and congratulated Marie, she answered in her quiet way as before, as
would not have changed the very least. And suddenly she said to Charles: "But why do so dumb," the
first time he realized that he was all the time sat there was no open his mouth. But now he was
more lively than all, took part in the conversation, only to Marie, he taught a word. Rebay
told of the wonderful time because he had written for Matras couplets, wore the contents from
a farce, which he thirty-five Years had composed, and played the roles even before a certain
extent. In particular, as Bohemian musician he excited great merriment. At one broke on you.
Mrs. Bauer was loading the arm of her daughter. Everyone laughed, cried ... It was quite strange,
and none was more something Special about that around the world, Marie was quite dark now. Karl
walked beside her. The mother asked him harmless for all sorts: What happened at home, as he
entertained on the trip would have, and Karl told by all sorts of things quickly, which he saw,
especially from the theaters and music hall, he had visited, and always wondered just how secure
their Marie Went away from the mother out, and how calm and happy they listened. Then they all
sat in the cafe, an old, smoky restaurant, which was by this time quite empty, and the close friends
of the Hungarian Ilka was free society. And now, the noise and bustle all around, Marie had moved
very close to Charles, just as sometimes in the old days, so that He felt the warmth of her body.
And suddenly he felt even, as she touched his hand and caressed without her saying a word
to it. Now he would have said something to her so much ... what some dear, comforting - but
he could not ... He looked at her from the side, and again he felt as he saw her eyes on something,
but not a human eye, but something weird, strange, he did not previously known - and there he was
seized with horror, as when a ghost was sitting next to him ... Her hand trembled and retired
quietly from his, and she said softly, "Why did not you afraid of? I'm the same. "He could not
re- to reply, and spoke the same with the others. After some time, suddenly a voice called out: "Where's
Marie?" It was the wife of shop fitters. Now fell on all that Marie disappeared was. "Where's
Marie?" Cried another. Some stood, the old farmer was loading at the door of the coffee house
and called out to the streets: "Marie" Everyone was excited, talked with each other. One said:
"But how can such a creature as ever alone ? Continue to get up and leave "suddenly came a
call in from the courtyard of the house," Bring's Candles! ... Bring's lanterns "And one cried:"!
Jesus Maria, "That was again the voice of old woman shop fitters. They all rushed through
the small coffee house kitchen in the yard. The dusk had already slipped over the rooftops.
To the court of the one-story old house was a wooden path, from the parapet above, a man leaned
in shirt sleeves, in a candlestick with a burning candle hand, and looked down. Two women in night
dress appeared behind him, another Man ran down the creaky stairs. That was what Karl saw
first. Then he saw some little glimmer in his eyes, someone was holding a white lace scarf
in the air and dropped it again. He heard words next to him, "It does not help more ... it touches
is never ... Holt's but a doctorate! ... What's the matter with the saving society? ... A security
guard! A security guard whispered !...« all mixed up, some rushed to the street addition, the figure
followed a Karl involuntarily with his eyes, it was the women's long Jedek in the yellow jacket,
she held both hands to his forehead in despair, ran away and did not Back ... Karl urged people
behind. He had come with his elbow backwards to not to fall on women shop workers, who knelt
on the ground, in Mary's hands held her hand, she moved back and forth to and shouted: "red
yet ... So Red but !...« Now at last came one with a lantern, the janitor, in a brown dressing
gown and Slap in shoes, and he shone in the face of the prostrate. Then he said, "But such a
mishap! And just as at the well head, it must be mit'm aufg'fallen. "And now Karl saw that Marie
next the stone enclosure of the fountain was stretched. Suddenly, the man presented in Shirt
sleeves in the passage: "I heard something rumbling, it's not even five minutes," And! all looked
up to him, but he was only repeating always: "There are not even five minutes, I've heard rumbling's
... "-" How did she heraufg'funden only whispered someone? behind Karl. "But pray 'you," replied
another, "the house is her yet known, there has it stands out in a kitchen herausgetastet, then
up the wooden stairs, and then the sill down - is ja net so hard, "whispered So it around Karl,
but he knew! not even the cast, though, there were loud friends who spoke, and he turned is
also not. Somewhere in the neighborhood of a rooster crowed. Karl felt like it was in a dream.
The caretaker put the lantern on the envelopment of the well and the mother shouted: "Come
now not a doctor soon," The old shop fitter the head of Marie raised in? Height so that the
light of her lantern in the face was shining. Now Karl saw clearly how the nostrils moved, twitched her
lips and how the dead eyes open it geradeso looked at, as before. He now saw that at the point from which
one the head of the Marie had raised, was moist and red. He said: "Marie! Marie! "But no one
heard him, and he did not sound himself. The man upstairs in the hallway was still standing
there, leaning over the Parapet, the two women next to him when she attended a performance. The
candle was extinguished. Purple Frühdämmer was above the courtyard.

Mrs. Bauer was the head of the shop Marie on the folded white lace cloth laid, Karl stood motionless
and stared down. It was bright enough all at once, he now saw that everything was perfectly
calm in the face of Mary and that nothing moved as the blood drops from his brow, from the hair on the
cheeks, slowly trickled down his neck on the wet pavement, and he knew that Marie was dead
...

Karl opened his eyes, how to scare a bad dream.

He sat alone on the bench the roadside, and he saw the conductor
Rebay and Nutty Jedek the same street rushed down, they were all gone
up with each other.

The two seemed fiercely with one another to speak, flailing hands and huge sign that drew
cane Jedeks like a fine line on the horizon, they went faster and faster, light from a cloud
of dust accompanied, but her words died away in the wind. Shone as brightly as the landscape, and
deep down in the heat of midday was swimming and shaking the city.

The Greek Dancer

People may say what they want, I do not believe that Mrs. Mathilde Samodeski died of a heart
attack is. I know better. I do not go into the house, from which one Today she longed for peace
with addition, I have no desire to see the man who just as well I
know why they died, to shake hands with him and keep quiet.

Another way I have a proposal: he's a little far, but the autumn is beautiful and still, and
it does me good to be alone. Soon I will stand behind the garden gate, behind which I saw
last spring for the last Mathilde. The shutters Villa will all be closed on the gravel road will
be reddish leaves, and at some point I will probably see the white marble shimmer through the trees,
from which is carved the Greek dancer.
On that evening I have to think too much today. It seems almost like
a coincidence that I then decided at the last moment had to accept
the invitation of waiting heimer, I have over the years but lost the
joy of all social doings so completely. Perhaps the mild wind was
to blame for the evening was blown from the hills in the city and
lured me out to the countryside. Moreover, it was supposed to be a
garden party with which the wait-heimer wanted to dedicate her villa,
and one needed to fear no particular compulsion. Strange It is also
that I put out into the little thought to the possibility, Mrs. Mathilde
outside to meet. The stall must be filled up, and why should not you have it as well
as another? It is six hundred a year and a house. Little Burslem had nine, but the good old
times are gone. Whether the house is letable or not under the present ecclesiastical régime,
I do not know. It used to be so, for I remember Mrs. Wiggins, the tallow-chandler's widow,
living in old Stanhope's house.

"Harold Smith has just joined the Government as Lord Petty Bag, and could, I think, at the
present moment, get this for asking. He cannot well refuse me, and, if you will say the word,
I will speak to him. You had better come up yourself; but say the word 'Yes,' or 'No,' by the
wires.

"If you say 'Yes,' as of course you will, do not fail to come up. You will find me at the 'Travellers,'
or at the House. The stall will just suit you,--will give you no trouble, improve your position,
and give some little assistance towards bed and board, and rack and manger.--Yours ever faithfully,
N. SOWERBY.

"Singularly enough, I hear that your brother is private secretary to the new Lord Petty Bag.
I am told that his chief duty will consist in desiring the servants to call my sister's carriage.
I have only seen Harold once since he accepted office; but my Lady Petty Bag says that he has
certainly grown an inch since that occurrence."

This was certainly very good-natured on the part of Mr. Sowerby, and showed that he had a feeling
within his bosom that he owed something to his friend the parson for the injury he had done
him. And such was in truth the case. A more reckless being than the member for West Barsetshire
could not exist. He was reckless for himself, and reckless for all others with whom he might
be concerned. He could ruin his friends with as little remorse as he had ruined himself. All
was fair game that came in the way of his net. But, nevertheless, he was good-natured, and
willing to move heaven and earth to do a friend a good turn, if it came in his way to do so. As the coveted alliance was denied, the embassy provided the Campanian Subjugation
of the city under the sovereignty of Rome, and such could lure the Roemer to resist. Roman envoys
went to the Samnites, their new acquisition view and urge them to respect the territory of the
friendly power. As the Events have been further is to identify the individual no longer ^ 15,
we only see that between Rome and Samnium, whether to another campaign, it was no previous war,
a Agreement was reached whereby the Romans were given a free hand against Capua, the Samnites
against Teanum and Volscians the upper Liris. The fact that the Samnites to be understood, is
explained from the enormous effort that went just about this time the Tarentines, the Sabellian
Neighbors to get rid of, but even the Romans had good reason to be so with the Samnites quickly as possible
to find them because of the impending transition of the south bordering Lazio transformed landscape
in Roman possession the longest among the Latins existing fermentation into open revolt. All
originally Latin cities, even the Roman citizens in the Federation recorded Tusculans taken up
arms against Rome, with the single exception of the Laurent while on the other hand, incorporated outside
the borders of Latium colonies only the old Volskerstaedte Velitrae, Antium Tarracina and participated
in the rebellion.
 His wife could not find it in her heart to
dissuade him from accepting promotion when it came in his way--what vicar's wife would have
so persuaded her husband? But yet she did not altogether like it. She feared that Greek from
Chaldicotes, even when he came with the present of a prebendal stall in his hands. And then
what would Lady Lufton say?

"And do you think that you must go up to London, Mark?"

"Oh, certainly; that is, if I intend to accept Harold Smith's kind offices in the matter."

"I suppose it will be better to accept them," said Fanny, feeling perhaps that it would be
useless in her to hope that they should not be accepted.

"Prebendal stalls, Fanny, don't generally go begging long among parish clergymen. How could
I reconcile it to the duty I owe to my children to refuse such an increase to my income?" And
so it was settled that he should at once drive to Silverbridge and send off a message by telegraph,
and that he should himself proceed to London on the following day. "But you must see Lady Lufton
first, of course," said Fanny, as soon as all this was settled. On the whole, therefore, remained the consuls, which the kings
been, were top managers, judges and generals, and even religiously It was not the victim of
Koenig, the only, so that the name was available, was appointed, but the consul, who was praying
for the congregation, and offered on their behalf and the will of the gods explored with the help
of the experts. For emergencies they stayed about the opportunity this open, the full absolute royal authority
without consulting the community at any moment back to launch with the elimination by the collegiality
and the special Expertise drawn barrier reductions. Thus the task of the royal authority legally
hold and actually limit, nameless by the statesmen, whose work this revolution was dissolved
in very Roman way, just as sharp as easy. The town won so by the change of the Constitution,
the most important rights: the right to the community leaders to call every year and about death
and life of the citizen of the last Authority to decide. But it could not possibly be the existing
community, actually to become upper class nobility. The power of the people was the "quantity"
which famous and wealthy people have already joined in large numbers in themselves. That this amount
from the Municipal Assembly was excluded, although joining in the common burden, might be tolerated
as long as the town meeting itself does not substantially interfere in the course of the state machine and
as long as the king of violence not just by their high position and free the citizens of many
less than the occupant was terribly and this gave the nation the right to equality. But when
the community itself called to regular elections and decisions, the chief was pressed down but
in fact from their Lord, to the temporary contractor, this could Relationship will no longer be maintained,
at least in the redesign of the State on the morning of a revolution that only by cooperation of
the patricians and the Inmates had been able to be enforced.


"Mr. Sowerby assures me that Mr. Smith will ask for it; and thinks it most probable that his
request will be successful."

"Oh, of course. Mr. Sowerby and Mr. Harold Smith together would no doubt be successful in anything.
They are the sort of men who are successful nowadays. Well, Mr. Robarts, I wish you joy." And
she gave him her hand in token of her sincerity. Mark took her hand, resolving to say nothing
further on that occasion. Those
Treaties was at a time that was long has surpassed and lost, it is evident that they at least since the
founding of Hatria Sena and absolutely no sense and that imports were the Romans in good faith
in the existing coalition in the Gulf - It was still very much in their interest, as the further
course of events shows the Tarentines darzubieten absolutely no reason to declare war. When the statesmen
Tarentum wanted to declare war on Rome, they did just what might have happened long ago, and
if they preferred, the declaration of war instead of to the real cause rather on formal to support
a breach of contract, so let's all remember the other hand, since the diplomacy at all times considered
it beneath their dignity has to say just what is simple. Alone that we instead ask the Admiral
to conversion, the fleet attacked without warning by force of arms, was a folly no less than a
barbarism, one of those horrible barbarities of civilization, where the civilization suddenly lost the
rudder and the naked meanness decease before us, as if to warn against the childish faith, as the civilization
of human nature in virtue of The bestiality auszuwurzeln. And as if that was not enough done about
fell after this feat the Tarentines Thurii, the Roman occupation following the surprise attack capitulated
(in winter 472/73 282/81), and punished the Thurin, the same as the Tarentum Luca had the policy
makers and abandoned by forcibly urged to surrender to Rome, hard for their defection from the
party to the Hellenic barbarians. The barbarians proceeded however, with a moderation that in such power
and admiration for such insults excited. It was in the interests of Rome, subject to the Tarentum
neutrality as long as possible to leave, and the senior men in the Senate rejected the request
so that a minority in understandable exasperation turned to declare the Tarentines immediately
to war. Rather, was the continuation of peace roemischerseits linked to the production conditions,
with the honor of Rome tolerated: release of prisoners, return of Thurii, delivery the originator
of the incident in the fleet. With these measures was a Roman embassy to Tarentum (473 281),
while at the same time to give her words emphatically, a Roman Army under the consul Lucius
Aemilius moved into Samnium. The Tarentines were without their Independence to award something,
take these conditions, and at the low belligerence the rich merchant city was allowed to take law
in Rome that an agreement still possible was. But the attempt to maintain peace failed - either
to the opposition of those Tarentines who recognized the need for the encroachments of Rome, the
sooner the better with counter the weapons, it was only at the insubordination of the urban populace,
with the popular Greek misbehavior even to the person of the ambassador in degrading Way out
of print. Have drawn attention to the consul in the Tarentum area, but instead immediately to open
hostilities, he offered again to the same conditions for peace, and Since this was in vain,
he began while the fields and farmhouses to devastate and proposed the urban militia, but the
more distinguished prisoners were released without ransom and they gave up hope that the war issue
of the aristocratic party in the city give the upper hand and force the peace will. The cause
of the restraint was that not the Romans, the city wanted to drive the Epeirotenkoenig in his
arms. The intentions were the same in Italy no longer a secret. Tarentum was already a mission
gone to Pyrrhus and turned back empty-thing, the king had more desires, as they had to grant
power of attorney. You had a choice.
 "This sort of dictatorship will never
do," Harold Smith had himself said, justifying that future vote of his as to want of confidence
in the Queen's Government. And Mr. Supplehouse in this matter had fully agreed with him. He
was a Juno whose form that wicked old Paris had utterly despised, and he, too, had quite made
up his mind as to the lobby in which he would be found when that day of vengeance should arrive.
But now things were much altered in Harold Smith's views. The Premier had shown his wisdom
in seeking for new strength where strength ought to be sought, and introducing new blood into
the body of his ministry. The people would now feel fresh confidence, and probably the House
also. As to Mr. Supplehouse--he would use all his influence on Supplehouse. But, after all,
Mr. Supplehouse was not everything.

On the morning after our vicar's arrival in London he attended at the Petty Bag Office. It
was situated in the close neighbourhood of Downing Street and the higher governmental gods;
and though the building itself was not much, seeing that it was shored up on one side, that
it bulged out in the front, was foul with smoke, dingy with dirt, and was devoid of any single
architectural grace or modern scientific improvement, nevertheless its position gave it a status
in the world which made the clerks in the Lord Petty Bag's office quite respectable in their
walk in life. It changed nothing
that probably once a patrician Augur in the election of a plebeian dictator (427 327) secret
and unhallowed eyes hidden defects and found that the patrician censor his colleagues to the
close of this period (474 ​​280) is not allowed, the solemn Sacrifice, which ended the estimation,
like harassment only served to to ascertain the bad humor of the Junkers. Similarly, little changes
such as the nagging, which the patrician chairman of the Senate will not have missed, because
of the participation raising of the plebs in the debate in the same, but rather put the rule
set to that no more the patrician members, but the one of the three highest annual Offices,
consulate, and praetorship curule aedileship arrived in this episode and no difference ask the state
to submit its opinion are, while those senators none of the offices held, had also participated at the
Abmehrung just now. The law as finally the patrician senate, a resolution of the community
to be unconstitutional Discard the same exercise, however well anyway have rarely ventured liked
him was Publilische by the law of 415 (339) and by not before the middle of the fifth century
nian adopted in the manner of withdrawal that he was caused to his possible constitutional Concerns
already drawing up the list of candidates or introduction of the proposed bill to assert, what practical
because it ran out, he always ahead of its approval pronounced. In this way a purely formal right
is the confirmation of the Volksschluesse Needle into the last days of the Republic remained.
Longer claimed understandably the families of their religious privileges, even to some of them, without
the political significance were as particular in their exclusive eligibility for the three highest
Flaminaten and the priestly kingdom and in the cooperatives of the jumpers, you have never
stirred. In contrast, the two colleges of pontiffs and augurs, to which a significant Influence on
the courts and the electors were attached, too important for the specific property can remain
the patricians would have; Ogulnische the law from the year 454 (300) opened For in this the
plebeians entry by the number of pontiffs and augurs both increased from six to nine colleges and two
points between the patricians divided evenly and the plebeians.
 A bell rang and the
private secretary, jumping up from his notepaper, tripped away quickly to the great man's room.
"He'll see you at once," said he, returning. "Buggins, show the Reverend Mr. Robarts to the
Lord Petty Bag." Buggins was the messenger for whose not vacant place all the peeresses were
striving with so much animation. And then Mark, following Buggins for two steps, was ushered
into the next room.

If a man be altered by becoming a private secretary, he is much more altered by being made
a Cabinet minister. Robarts, as he entered the room, could hardly believe that this was the
same Harold Smith whom Mrs. Proudie bothered so cruelly in the lecture-room at Barchester.
Then he was cross, and touchy, and uneasy, and insignificant. Now, as he stood smiling on the
hearth-rug of his official fireplace, it was quite pleasant to see the kind, patronizing smile
which lighted up his features. He delighted to stand there, with his hands in his trousers'
pocket, the great man of the place, conscious of his lordship, and feeling himself every inch
a minister. We have lived there as pleasant as young people ... that is, we're young or both ...
I mean, like a loving couple, even if we occasionally large in the world went ... We were
a couple of times at the Austrian ambassador, we have La Hires and others attended. But on
the whole we got not much from the elegant life. We even lived out in Montmartre, in a rather
shabby house, where, incidentally, Gregor had his studio. I assure you, among the young artists
with whom we are there wrong, some had no idea that we were married. I am everywhere with him
herumgestiefelt. Often I'm sitting in the night with him at Café Athena, with Léandre, Carabin
and many others. All sorts of women were at times in our society, that I probably would not run
in Vienna ... Finally, though - - "She threw a hasty glance across to women waiting Heimer
and quickly drove away again, "And some were very pretty. A few times was the last mistress
of Henri Chabran there, since his death always in black and went every week, had another lover,
but in this Time had to wear mourning all that she demanded ... Strange people get to know you.
You can imagine that the women running after my husband there are no fewer than elsewhere,
it was laugh. But I was always with him - or most of, so dare they are not quite approaching
him, the less than I was for his mistress ... Yes, if they had known that I was only his wife
- And I'm even on a strange Incident came to me you would certainly never have expected -
and to tell you frankly, I wonder . Me today about my own courage She looked straight ahead and
spoke more gently than before: "It way, is also possible that there was already something related
- well, you can's yes, think. For a few weeks, I knew I had to expect a child. That made me incredibly
happy. In the beginning I was not only cheerful but oddly enough, a lot more mobile than ever
before ... So think, one fine evening I have men's clothes and I am so attracted to adventure with
Gregory. Of course I gave him above all the promise accepted that he would do to any penalty ...
well, otherwise they would have the whole story had no meaning. Incidentally, I have looked splendid
- you would not recognize me ... no one would have recognized me.
 And remember, Mr.
Robarts, I will do what I can for you; but you must distinctly understand that there is no
promise."

"Oh, no promise at all," said Sowerby--"of course not." And then, as he sauntered up Whitehall
towards Charing Cross, with Robarts on his arm, he again pressed upon him the sale of that
invaluable hunter, who was eating his head off his shoulders in the stable at Chaldicotes.

CHAPTER XIX

Money Dealings

Mr. Sowerby, in his resolution to obtain this good gift for the vicar of Framley, did not depend
quite alone on the influence of his near connexion with the Lord Petty Bag. He felt the occasion
to be one on which he might endeavour to move even higher powers than that, and therefore he
had opened the matter to the duke--not by direct application, but through Mr. Fothergill. They came, murdered and plundered
that was found in humans and property, and finally ignited in the eyes the Roman occupation
in the Capitol at all corners of the city. But the siege of art they did not understand and the
blockade of the steep cliff of the castle was long and difficult, as the food for the large
army swarm only by armed streak in games were procured it, and that the neighboring Latin
citizenship, especially the ardeat, frequently opposed threw himself with courage and happiness.
Nevertheless waited with the Celts unprecedented power in their relationships seven months under
the rocks and already started the occupation, the dark of night in a surprise attack by the only
chatter geese on the Capitoline temple of the Holy and the accidental awakening of the brave Marcus
Manlius had escaped to give the food to run out, as the Celts an idea the Venetians in the newly
reclaimed territory on Senones Padus was reported and it moved, the for them to take the deduction
offered ransom. The scornful fling of the Gallic Sword, that it would be outweighed by the Roman
gold, very correctly described the situation of things. The iron of the barbarians had won,
but they sold their victory and gave him lost. --------------------------------------------------
---- ^ 6 This is after viable equation 390 BC, but in fact was the capture of Rome Ol 98, a =
388 v. BC, and moved only by the deranged Roman Jahrzaehlung. --------------------------------------------------
---- The terrible catastrophe of defeat and of the fire, the 18th July and the stream of Allia,
the place where the shrines have been buried and where the surprise of the castle had been cut off - all the details of this unprecedented
event went over by the memory of his contemporaries in the imagination of posterity, and yet
we understand unlikely that really only two millennia have passed since those world-historical
geese be more vigilant than the proven established posts.
 And yet, looking to the absolute
amount of his income, surely he might feel himself entitled to buy a new horse when it suited
him. He wondered what Mr. Crawley would say when he heard of the new purchase. When he had lost his father and now to all the family of Haelmli-Sepp
belonged, as he spoke hardly at all anymore, because he was each approached and pushed back
and forth, because he never fought. To all the blows that he had to endure from the children,
they released the evil words of the woman, if they Over There was anger about the neat little
house of the milkmaid. The This resisted but never for he had the feeling that the whole world
is against him, and yet use nothing. "Robarts,"
said he, walking up to his friend and taking the hand that was extended to him, "do you know
anything about this man Tozer?"

"Tozer--what Tozer? I have heard Sowerby speak of such a man."

"Of course you have. If I do not mistake you have written to me about him yourself." The performance began, and Karl heard
again the old familiar things. Only it changed everything seemed strange, because he never
so far from the podium was sitting. First, the conductor played a so-called Rebay Overture, from
Karl penetrated to only a few hard chords, then became the first Hungarian to Ilka on in bright red
dress, spurred boots, sang songs and danced Hungarian inns. This was followed by a humorous presentation
of the comedian-Wagels Wiegel, he joined the zeisiggrünen Tails on, announced that he had just
arrived from Africa, and reported all sorts of nonsense Adventure whose end his marriage to an old
widow was. Then came a duet Mr and Mrs shopfitters, both wore Tyrolean costume.
 "You do not mean to say that Sowerby is swindling you?" said
the clergyman.

"It looks very like it," said Lord Lufton; "and I tell you fairly that I am not in a humour
to endure any more of this sort of thing. The blind man waved it to the young couples
and said: "You well, ladies and gentlemen"

"Thanks," said the young man, but the young woman pulled him away
because she was this blind man scary.

Now driving a car a with a rather noisy society: father, mother, three
children, a nurse.

»German Family," Geronimo said softly to Carlo.

The father gave
each child a coin, and each was allowed his in the hat of the beggar
. Throw Geronimo every time his head bowed in thanks.

"But I thought all those bills were paid?"

