Of course we recognized Mrs. Barker, more because there was no one else in our small community
who could personify a darky so perfectly, than because there was any resemblance to her in
looks or gesture. The make-up was artistic, and how she managed the quick transformation from
ball dress to that of the plantation, with all its black paint and rouge, Mrs. Barker alone
knows, and where on this earth she got that dress and turban, she alone knows. But I imagine
she sent to Virginia for the whole costume. At all events, it was very bright in her to think
of this unusual divertissement for our guests when dancing was beginning to lag a little. The
dance she must have learned from a mammy when a child. I forgot to say that during the time
she was dancing our fine orchestra played old Southern melodies. And all this was arranged
and done by the quietest woman in the garrison!

Our house was upset from one end to the other to make room for the dancing, but the putting
of things in order again did not take long, as the house has so very little in it. Still, I
always feel rebellious when anything comes up to interfere with my rides, no matter how pleasant
it may be. There have been a great many antelope near the post of late, and we have been on
ever so many hunts for them. The greyhounds have not been with us, however, for following the
hounds when chasing those fleet animals not only requires the fastest kind of a horse and very
good riding, but is exceedingly dangerous to both horse and rider because of the many prairie-dog
holes, which are terrible death traps. And besides, the dogs invariably get their feet full
of cactus needles, which cause much suffering for days.

So we have been flagging the antelope, that is, taking a shameful advantage of their wonderful
curiosity, and enticing them within rifle range. On these hunts I usually hold the horses of
the three officers and my own, and so far they have not given me much trouble, for each one
is a troop-trained animal.

The antelope are shy and wary little creatures, and possess an abnormal sense of smell that
makes it absolutely necessary for hunters to move cautiously to leeward the instant they discover
them. It is always an easy matter to find a little hill that will partly screen them--the country
is so rolling--as they creep and crawl to position, ever mindful of the dreadful cactus. When
they reach the highest point the flag is put up, and this is usually made on the spot, of a
red silk handkerchief, one corner run through the rammer of a Springfield rifle. Then everyone
lies down flat on the ground, resting on his elbows, with rifle in position for firing.

Antelope always graze against the wind, and even a novice can tell when they discover the flag,
for they instantly stop feeding, and the entire band will whirl around to face it, with big
round ears standing straight up, and in this way they will remain a second or two, constantly
sniffing the air. Failing to discover anything dangerous, they will take a few steps forward,
perhaps run around a little, giving quick tossings of the head, and sniffing with almost every
breath, but whatever they do the stop is always in the same position--facing the flag, the
strange object they cannot understand. Often they will approach very slowly, making frequent
halts after little runs, and give many tossings of the head as if they were actually coquetting
with death itself! Waiting for them to come within range of the rifle requires great patience,
for the approach is always more or less slow, and frequently just as they are at the right
distance and the finger is on the trigger, off the whole band will streak, looking like horizontal
bars of brown and white! I am always so glad when they do this, for it seems so wicked to kill
such graceful creatures. It is very seldom that I watch the approach, but when I do happen
to see them come up, the temptation to do something to frighten them away from those murderous
guns is almost irresistible.

But never once are they killed for mere pleasure! Their meat is tender and most delicious after
one has learned to like the "gamey" flavor. And a change in meat we certainly do need here,
for unless we can have buffalo or antelope now and then, it is beef every day in the month--not
only one month, but every month.

The prairie-dog holes are great obstacles to following hounds on the plains, for while running
so fast it is impossible for a horse to see the holes in time to avoid them, and if a foot
slips down in one it means a broken leg for the horse and a hard throw for the rider, and perhaps
broken bones also. Following these English greyhounds--which have such wonderful speed and
keenness of sight--after big game on vast plains, is very different from running after the
slow hounds and foxes in the East, and requires a very much faster horse and quite superior
riding. One has to learn to ride a horse--to get a perfect balance that makes it a matter of
indifference which-way the horse may jump, at any speed--in fact, one must become a part of
one's mount before these hunts can be attempted.

Chasing wolves and rabbits is not as dangerous, for they cannot begin to run as fast as antelope.
And it is great fun to chase the big jack-rabbits. They know their own speed perfectly and
have great confidence in it. When the hounds start one he will give one or two jumps high up
in the air to take a look at things, and then he commences to run with great bounds, with his
enormously long ears straight up like sails on a boat, and almost challenges the dogs to follow.
But the poor hunted thing soon finds out that he must do better than that if he wishes to keep
ahead, so down go the ears, flat along his back, and stretching himself out very straight,
goes his very fastest, and then the real chase is on.

But Mr. Jack-Rabbit is cunning, and when he sees that the long-legged dogs are steadily gaining
upon him and getting closer with every jump, he will invariably make a quick turn and run back
on his own tracks, often going right underneath the fast-running dogs that cannot stop themselves,
and can only give vicious snaps as they jump over him. Their stride--often fifteen and twenty
feet--covers so much more ground than the rabbit's, it is impossible for them to make as quick
turns, therefore it is generally the slow dog of the pack that catches the rabbit. And frequently
a wise old rabbit will make many turns and finally reach a hole in safety.

The tail of a greyhound is his rudder and his brake, and the sight is most laughable when a
whole pack of them are trying to stop, each tail whirling around like a Dutch windmill. Sometimes,
in their frantic efforts to stop quickly, they will turn complete somersaults and roll over
in a cloud of dust and dirt. But give up they never do, and once on their feet they start back
after that rabbit with whines of disappointment and rage. Many, many times, also, I have heard
the dogs howl and whine from the pain caused by the cactus spines in their feet, but not once
have I ever seen any one of them lag in the chase.

But the pack here is a notoriously fine one. The leader. Magic, is a splendid dog, dark brindle
in color, very swift and very plucky, also most intelligent. He is a sly rascal, too. He loves
to sleep on Lieutenant Baldwin's bed above all things, and he sneaks up on it whenever he can,
but the instant he hears Lieutenant Baldwin's step on the walk outside, down he jumps, and
stretching himself out full length in front of the fire, he shuts his eyes tight, pretends
to be fast asleep, and the personification of an innocent, well-behaved dog! But Lieutenant
Baldwin knows his tricks now, and sometimes, going to the bed, he can feel the warmth from
his body that is still there, and if he says, "Magic, you old villain," Magic will wag his
tail a little, which in dog language means, "You are pretty smart, but I'm smart, too!"

With all this outdoor exercise, one can readily perceive that the days are not long and tiresome.
Of course there are a few who yawn and complain of the monotony of frontier life, but these
are the stay-at-homes who sit by their own fires day after day and let cobwebs gather in brain
and lungs. And these, too, are the ones who have time to discover so many faults in others,
and become our garrison gossips! If they would take brisk rides on spirited horses in this
wonderful air, and learn to shoot all sorts of guns in all sorts of positions, they would soon
discover that a frontier post can furnish plenty of excitement. At least, I have found that it can.

Faye was very anxious for me to become a good shot, considering it most essential in this Indian
country, and to please him I commenced practicing soon after we got here. It was hard work
at first, and I had many a bad headache from the noise of the guns. It was all done in a systematic
way, too, as though I was a soldier at target practice. They taught me to use a pistol in various
positions while standing; then I learned to use it from the saddle. After that a little four-inch
bull's-eye was often tacked to a tree seventy-five paces away, and I was given a Spencer carbine
to shoot (a short magazine rifle used by the cavalry), and many a time I have fired three rounds,
twenty-one shots in all, at the bull's-eye, which I was expected to hit every time, too.

Well, I obligingly furnished amusement for Faye and Lieutenant Baldwin until they asked me
to fire a heavy Springfield rifle--an infantry gun. After one shot I politely refused to touch
the thing again. The noise came near making me deaf for life; the big thing rudely "kicked"
me over on my back, and the bullet--I expect that ball is still on its way to Mars or perhaps
the moon. This earth it certainly did not hit! Faye is with the company almost every morning,
but after luncheon we usually go out for two or three hours, and always come back refreshed
by the exercise. And the little house looks more cozy, and the snapping of the blazing logs
sounds more cheerful because of our having been away from them.

FORT LYON, COLORADO TERRITORY, April, 1872.

SOME of the most dreadful things have occurred since I wrote you last, and this letter will
make you unhappy, I know. To begin with, orders have actually come from Department Headquarters
at Leavenworth for two companies of infantry here--General Phillips' and Captain Giddings'--to
go to Camp Supply! So that is settled, and we will probably leave this post in about ten days,
and during that time we are expected to sell, give away, smash up, or burn about everything
we possess, for we have already been told that very few things can be taken with us. I do not
see how we can possibly do with less than we have had since we came here.

Eliza announced at once that she could not be induced to go where there are so many Indians--said
she had seen enough of them while in New Mexico. I am more than sorry to lose her, but at the
same time I cannot help admiring her common sense. I would not go either if I could avoid it.

You will remember that not long ago I said that Lieutenant Baldwin was urging me to ride Tom,
his splendid thoroughbred, as soon as he could be quieted down a little so I could control
him. Well, I was to have ridden him to-day for the first time! Yesterday morning Lieutenant
Baldwin had him out for a long, hard run, but even after that the horse was nervous when he
came in, and danced sideways along the officers' drive in his usual graceful way. Just as they
got opposite the chaplain's house, two big St. Bernard dogs bounded over the fence and landed
directly under the horse, entangling themselves with his legs so completely that when he tried
to jump away from them he was thrown down on his knees with great force, and Lieutenant Baldwin
was pitched over the horse's head and along the ground several feet.

He is a tall, muscular man and went down heavily, breaking three ribs and his collar bone on
both sides! He is doing very well, and is as comfortable to-day as can be expected, except
that he is grieving piteously over his horse, for the poor horse--beautiful Tom--is utterly
ruined! Both knees have been sprung, and he is bandaged almost as much as his master.

The whole occurrence is most deplorable and distressing. It seems so dreadful that a strong
man should be almost killed and a grand horse completely ruined by two clumsy, ill-mannered
dogs. One belongs to the chaplain, too, who is expected to set a model example for the rest
of us. Many, many times during the winter I have ridden by the side of Tom, and had learned
to love every one of his pretty ways, from the working of his expressive ears to the graceful
movement of his slender legs. He was a horse for anyone to be proud of, not only for his beauty
but as a hunter, too, and he was Lieutenant Baldwin's delight and joy.

It does seem as if everything horrible had come all at once. The order we have been expecting,
of course, as so many rumors have reached us that we were to go, but all the time there has
been hidden away a little hope that we might be left here another year.

I shall take the greyhound puppy, of course. He is with Blue, his mother, at Captain Richardson's
quarters, but he is brought over every day for me to see. His coat is brindled, dark brown
and black--just like Magic's--and fine as the softest satin. One foot is white, and there is
a little white tip to his tail, which, it seems, is considered a mark of great beauty in a
greyhound. We have named him Harold.

Nothing has been done about packing yet, as the orders have just been received. The carpenters
in the company will not be permitted to do one thing for us until the captain and first lieutenant
have had made every box and crate they want for the move. I am beginning to think that it must
be nice to be even a first lieutenant. But never mind, perhaps Faye will get his captaincy
in twenty years or so, and then it will be all "fair and square."

FORT LYON, COLORADO TERRITORY, May, 1872.

EVERYTHING is packed or disposed of, and we are ready to start to-morrow on the long march
to Camp Supply. Two large army wagons have been allowed to each company for the officers' baggage,
but as all three officers are present with the company Faye is in, and the captain has taken
one of the wagons for his own use, we can have just one half of one of those wagons to take
our household goods to a country where it is absolutely impossible to purchase one thing! We
have given away almost all of our furniture, and were glad that we had bought so little when
we came here. Our trunks and several boxes are to be sent by freight to Hays City at our own
expense, and from there down to the post by wagon, and if we ever see them again I will be
surprised, as Camp Supply is about one hundred and fifty miles from the railroad. We are taking
only one barrel of china--just a few pieces we considered the most necessary--and this morning
Faye discovered that the first lieutenant had ordered that one barrel to be taken from the
wagon to make more room for his own things. Faye ordered it to be put back at once, and says
it will stay there, too, and I fancy it will! Surely we are entitled to all of our one half
of the wagon--second choice at that.

I am to ride in an ambulance with Mrs. Phillips, her little son and her cook, Mrs. Barker and
her small son. There will be seats for only four, as the middle seat has been taken out to
make room for a comfortable rocking-chair that will be for Mrs. Phillips's exclusive use! The
dear little greyhound puppy I have to leave here. Faye says I must not take him with so many
in the ambulance, as he would undoubtedly be in the way. But I am sure the puppy would not
be as troublesome as one small boy, and there will be two small boys with us. It would be quite
bad enough to be sent to such a terrible place as Camp Supply has been represented to us, without
having all this misery and mortification added, and all because Faye happens to be a second
lieutenant!

I have cried and cried over all these things until I am simply hideous, but I have to go just
the same, and I have made up my mind never again to make myself so wholly disagreeable about
a move, no matter where we may have to go. I happened to recall yesterday what grandmother
said to me when saying good-by: "It is a dreadful thing not to become a woman when one ceases
to be a girl!" I am no longer a girl, I suppose, so I must try to be a woman, as there seems
to be nothing in between. One can find a little comfort, too, in the thought that there is
no worse place possible for us to be sent to, and when once there we can look forward to better
things sometime in the future. I do not mind the move as much as the unpleasant experiences
connected with it.

But I shall miss the kind friends, the grand hunts and delightful rides, and shall long for
dear old John, who has carried me safely so many, many miles.

Lieutenant Baldwin is still ill and very depressed, and Doctor Wilder is becoming anxious about
him. It is so dreadful for such a powerful man as he has been to be so really broken in pieces.
He insists upon being up and around, which is bad, very bad, for the many broken bones.

I will write whenever I find an opportunity.

OLD FORT ZARAH, KANSAS, April, 1872.

OUR camp to-night is near the ruins of a very old fort, and ever since we got here, the men
have been hunting rattlesnakes that have undoubtedly been holding possession of the tumble-down
buildings, many snake generations. Dozens and dozens have been killed, of all sizes, some of
them being very large. The old quarters were evidently made of sods and dirt, and must have
been dreadful places to live in even when new.

I must tell you at once that I have the little greyhound. I simply took matters in my own hands
and got him! We came only five miles our first day out, and after the tents had been pitched
that night and the various dinners commenced, it was discovered that many little things had
been left behind, so General Phillips decided to send an ambulance and two or three men back
to the post for them, and to get the mail at the same time. It so happened that Burt, our own
striker, was one of the men detailed to go, and when I heard this I at once thought of the
puppy I wanted so much. I managed to see Burt before he started, and when asked if he could
bring the little dog to me he answered so heartily, "That I can, mum," I felt that the battle
was half won, for I knew that if I could once get the dog in camp he would take care of him,
even if I could not.

Burt brought him and kept him in his tent that night, and the little fellow seemed to know
that he should be good, for Burt told me that he did not whimper once, notwithstanding it was
his first night from his mother and little companions. The next morning, when he was brought
to me, Faye's face was funny, and after one look of astonishment at the puppy he hurried out
of the tent--so I could not see him laugh, I think. He is quite as pleased as I am, now, to
have the dog, for he gives no trouble whatever. He is fed condensed milk, and I take care of
him during the day and Burt has him at night. He is certainly much better behaved in the ambulance
than either of the small boys who step upon our feet, get into fierce fights, and keep up a
racket generally. The mothers have been called upon to settle so many quarrels between their
sons, that the atmosphere in the ambulance has become quite frigid.

The day we came from the post, while I was grieving for the little greyhound and many other
things I had not been permitted to bring with me, and the rocking-chair was bruising my ankles,
I felt that it was not dignified in me to submit to the treatment I was being subjected to,
and I decided to rebel. Mrs. Barker and her small son had been riding on the back seat, and
I felt that I was as much entitled to a seat here as the boy, nevertheless I had been sitting
on the seat with Mrs. Phillips's servant and riding backward. This was the only place that
had been left for me at the post that morning. After thinking it all over I made up my mind
to take the small boy's seat, but just where he would sit I did not know.

When I returned to the ambulance after the next rest--I was careful to get there first--I sat
down on the back seat and made myself comfortable, but I must admit that my heart was giving
awful thumps, for Mrs. Barker's sharp tongue and spitfire temper are well known. My head was
aching because of my having ridden backward, and I was really cross, and this Mrs. Barker may
have noticed, for not one word did she say directly to me, but she said much to her son--much
that I might have resented had I felt inclined. The small boy sat on his mother's lap and expressed
his disapproval by giving me vicious kicks every few minutes.

Not one word was said the next morning when I boldly carried the puppy to that seat. Mrs. Barker
looked at the dog, then at me, with great scorn, but she knew that if she said anything disagreeable
Mrs. Phillips would side with me, so she wisely kept still. I think that even Faye has come
to the conclusion that I might as well have the dog--who lies so quietly in my lap--now that
he sees how I am sandwiched in with rocking-chairs, small boys, and servants. The men march
fifty minutes and halt ten, each hour, and during every ten minutes' rest Harold and I take
a little run, and this makes him ready for a nap when we return to the ambulance. From this
place on I am to ride with Mrs. Cole, who has her own ambulance. This will be most agreeable,
and I am so delighted that she should have thought of inviting me.

Camping out is really very nice when the weather is pleasant, but the long marches are tiresome
for everybody. The ambulances and wagons are driven directly back of the troops, consequently
the mules can never go faster than a slow walk, and sometimes the dust is enough to choke us.
We have to keep together, for we are in an Indian country, of course. I feel sorry for the
men, but they always march "rout" step and seem to have a good time, for we often hear them
laughing and joking with each other.

We are following the Arkansas River, and so far the scenery has been monotonous--just the same
rolling plains day after day. Leaving our first army home was distressing, and I doubt if other
homes and other friends will ever be quite the same to me. Lieutenant Baldwin was assisted
to the porch by his faithful Mexican boy, so he could see us start, and he looked white and
pitifully helpless, with both arms bandaged tight to his sides. One of those dreadful dogs
is in camp and going to Camp Supply with us, and is as frisky as though he had done something
to be proud of.

This cannot be posted until we reach Fort Dodge, but I intend to write to you again while there,
of course, if I have an opportunity.

FORT DODGE, KANSAS, May, 1872.

IT was nearly two o'clock yesterday when we arrived at this post, and we go on again to-day
about eleven. The length of all marches has to be regulated by water and wood, and as the first
stream on the road to Camp Supply is at Bluff Creek, only ten miles from here, there was no
necessity for an early start. This gives us an opportunity to get fresh supplies for our mess
chests, and to dry things also.

There was a terrific rain and electric storm last evening, and this morning we present anything
but a military appearance, for around each tent is a fine array of bedding and clothing hung
out to dry. Our camp is at the foot of a hill a short distance back of the post, and during
the storm the water rushed down with such force that it seemed as though we were in danger
of being carried on to the Arkansas River.

We had just returned from a delightful dinner with Major and Mrs. Tilden, of the cavalry, and
Faye had gone out to mount the guard for the night, when, without a moment's warning, the storm
burst upon us. The lightning was fierce, and the white canvas made it appear even worse than
it really was, for at each flash the walls of the tent seemed to be on fire. There was no dark
closet for me to run into this time, but there was a bed, and on that I got, taking the little
dog with me for company and to get him out of the wet. He seemed very restless and constantly
gave little whines, and at the time I thought it was because he, too, was afraid of the storm.
The water was soon two and three inches deep on the ground under the tent, rushing along like
a mill race, giving little gurgles as it went through the grass and against the tent pins.
The roar of the rain on the tent was deafening.

The guard is always mounted with the long steel bayonets on the rifles, and I knew that Faye
had on his sword, and remembering these things made me almost scream at each wicked flash of
lightning, fearing that he and the men had been killed. But he came to the tent on a hard run,
and giving me a long waterproof coat to wrap myself in, gathered me in his arms and started
for Mrs. Tilden's, where I had been urged to remain overnight. When we reached a narrow board
walk that was supposed to run along by her side fence, Faye stood me down upon it, and I started
to do some running on my own account. Before I had taken two steps, however, down went the
walk and down I went in water almost to my knees, and then splash--down went the greyhound
puppy! Up to that instant I had not been conscious of having the little dog with me, and in
all that rain and water Faye had been carrying me and a fat puppy also.

The walk had been moved by the rushing water, and was floating, which we had no way of knowing,
of course. I dragged the dog out of the water, and we finally reached the house, where we received
a true army welcome--a dry one, too--and there I remained until after breakfast this morning.
But sleep during the night I did not, for until long after midnight I sat in front of a blazing
fire holding a very sick puppy. Hal was desperately ill and we all expected him to die at any
moment, and I was doubly sorrowful, because I had been the innocent cause of it. Ever since
I have had him he has been fed condensed milk only--perhaps a little bread now and then; so
when we got here I sent for some fresh milk, to give him a treat. He drank of it greedily and
seemed to enjoy it so much, that I let him have all he wanted during the afternoon. And it
was the effect of the milk that made him whine during the storm, and not because he was afraid
of the lightning. He would have died, I do believe, had it not been for the kindness of Major
Tilden who knows all about greyhounds. They are very delicate and most difficult to raise.
The little dog is a limp bunch of brindled satin this morning, wrapped in flannel, but we hope
he will soon be well.

A third company joined us here and will go on to Camp Supply. Major Hunt, the captain, has
his wife and three children with him, and they seem to be cultured and very charming people.
Mrs. Hunt this moment brought a plate of delicious spice cake for our luncheon. There is a
first lieutenant with the company, but he is not married.

There is only one mail from here each week, so of course there will be only one from Camp Supply,
as that mail is brought here and then carried up to the railroad with the Dodge mail. It is
almost time for the tents to be struck, and I must be getting ready for the march.

CAMP SUPPLY, INDIAN TERRITORY, May, 1872.

THIS place is quite as dreadful as it has been represented to us. There are more troops here
than at Fort Lyon, and of course the post is very much larger. There are two troops of colored
cavalry, one of white cavalry, and three companies of infantry. The infantry companies that
have been stationed here, and which our three companies have come to relieve, will start in
the morning for their new station, and will use the transportation that brought us down. Consequently,
it was necessary to unload all the things from our wagons early this morning, so they could
be turned over to the outgoing troops. I am a little curious to know if there is a second lieutenant
who will be so unfortunate as to be allowed only one half of a wagon in which to carry his
household goods.

Their going will leave vacant a number of officers' quarters, therefore there will be no selection
of quarters by our officers until to-morrow. Faye is next to the junior, so there will be very
little left to select from by the time his turn comes. The quarters are really nothing more
than huts built of vertical logs plastered in between with mud, and the roofs are of poles
and mud! Many of the rooms have only sand floors. We dined last evening with Captain and Mrs.
Vincent, of the cavalry, and were amazed to find that such wretched buildings could be made
so attractive inside. But of course they have one of the very best houses on the line, and
as company commander, Captain Vincent can have done about what he wants. And then, again, they
are but recently married, and all their furnishings are new and handsome. There is one advantage
in being with colored troops--one can always have good servants. Mrs. Vincent has an excellent
colored soldier cook, and her butler was thoroughly trained as such before he enlisted. It
did look so funny, however, to see such a black man in a blue Uniform.

The march down from Fort Dodge was most uncomfortable the first two days. It poured and poured
rain, and then poured more rain, until finally everybody and everything was soaked through.
I felt so sorry for the men who had to march in the sticky mud. Their shoes filled fast with
water, and they were compelled constantly to stop, take them off, and pour out the water. It
cleared at last and the sun shone warm and bright, and then there was another exhibition in
camp one afternoon, of clothing and bedding drying on guy ropes.

All the way down I was on the lookout for Indians, and was laughed at many a time for doing
so, too. Every time something unusual was seen in the distance some bright person would immediately
exclaim, "Oh, that is only one of Mrs. Rae's Indians!" I said very little about what I saw
during the last day or two, for I felt that the constant teasing must have become as wearisome
to the others as it had to me. But I am still positive that I saw the black heads of Indians
on the top of ever so many hills we passed. When they wish to see and not be seen they crawl
up a hill on the side farthest from you, but only far enough up to enable them to look over,
and in this position they will remain for hours, perfectly motionless, watching your every
movement. Unless you notice the hill very carefully you will never see the black dot on top,
for only the eyes and upper part of the head are exposed. I had been told all this many times;
also, that when in an Indian country to be most watchful when Indians are not to be seen.

Camp Supply is certainly in an Indian country, for it is surrounded by Comanches, Apaches,
Kiowas, Cheyennes, and Arapahoes--each a hostile tribe, except the last. No one can go a rod
from the garrison without an escort, and our weekly mail is brought down in a wagon and guarded
by a corporal and several privates. Only last week two couriers--soldiers--who had been sent
down with dispatches from Fort Dodge, were found dead on the road, both shot in the back, probably
without having been given one chance to defend themselves.

We are in camp on low land just outside the post, and last night we were almost washed away
again by the down-pouring rain, and this morning there is mud everywhere. And this is the country
that is supposed never to have rain! Mrs. Vincent invited me most cordially to come to her
house until we at least knew what quarters we were to have, and Captain Vincent came early
to-day to insist upon my going up at once, but I really could not go. We have been in rain
and mud so long I feel that I am in no way fit to go to anyone's house. Besides, it would seem
selfish in me to desert Faye, and he, of course, would not leave the company as long as it
is in tents. We are delighted at finding such charming people as the Vincents at this horrid place.

CAMP SUPPLY, INDIAN TERRITORY, June, 1872.

WE are in our own house now and almost settled. When one has only a few pieces of furniture
it does not take long to get them in place. It is impossible to make the rooms look homelike,
and I often find myself wondering where in this world I have wandered to! The house is of logs,
of course, and has a pole and dirt roof, and was built originally for an officers' mess. The
dining room is large and very long, a part of which we have partitioned off with a piece of
canvas and converted into a storeroom. We had almost to get down on our knees to the quartermaster
before he would give us the canvas. He is in the quartermaster's department and is most arrogant;
seems to think that every nail and tack is his own personal property and for his exclusive use.

Our dining room has a sand floor, and almost every night little white toadstools grow up all
along the base of the log walls. All of the logs are of cottonwood and have the bark on, and
the army of bugs that hide underneath the bark during the day and march upon us at night is
to be dreaded about as much as a whole tribe of Indians!

I wrote you how everyone laughed at me on the march down because I was positive I saw heads
of Indians on the sand hills so many times. Well, all that has ceased, and the mention of "Mrs.
Rae's Indians" is carefully avoided! There has been sad proof that the Indians were there,
also that they were watching us closely and kept near us all the way down from Fort Dodge,
hoping for a favorable opportunity to steal the animals. The battalion of the --th Infantry
had made only two days' march from here, and the herders had just turned the horses and mules
out to graze, when a band of Cheyenne Indians swooped down upon them and stampeded every animal,
leaving the companies without even one mule! The poor things are still in camp on the prairie,
waiting for something, anything, to move them on. General Phillips is mightily pleased that
the Indians did not succeed in getting the animals from his command, and I am pleased that
they cannot tease me any more.

My ride with Lieutenant Golden, Faye's classmate, this morning was very exciting for a time.
We started directly after stable call, which is at six o'clock. Lieutenant Golden rode Dandy,
his beautiful thoroughbred, that reminds me so much of Lieutenant Baldwin's Tom, and I rode
a troop horse that had never been ridden by a woman before. As soon as he was led up I noticed
that there was much white to be seen in his eyes, and that he was restless and ever pawing
the ground. But the orderly said he was not vicious, and he was sure I could ride him. He did
not object in the least to my skirt, and we started off in fine style, but before we reached
the end of the line he gave two or three pulls at the bit, and then bolted! My arms are remarkably
strong, but they were like a child's against that hard mouth. He turned the corner sharply
and carried me along back of the laundress' quarters, where there was a perfect network of
clothes lines, and where I fully expected to be swept from the saddle. But I managed to avoid
them by putting my head down close to the horse's neck, Indian fashion. He was not a very large
horse, and lowered himself, of course, by his terrific pace. He went like the wind, on and
up the hill in front of the guard house. There a sentry was walking post, and on his big infantry
rifle was a long bayonet, and the poor man, in his desire to do something for me, ran forward
and held the gun horizontally right in front of my horse, which caused him to give a fearful
lunge to the right and down the hill. How I managed to keep my seat I do not know, and neither
do I know how that mad horse kept right side up on that down jump. But it did not seem to disturb
him in the least, for he never slackened his speed, and on we went toward the stables, where
the cavalry horses were tied to long picket ropes, and close together, getting their morning
grooming.

All this time Lieutenant Golden had not attempted to overtake me, fearing that by doing so
he might make matters worse, but when he saw that the horse was running straight for his place
on the line, he pushed forward, and grasping my bridle rein, almost pulled the horse on his
haunches. He said later that I might have been kicked to death by the troop horses if I had
been rushed in among them. We went on to the stables, Lieutenant Golden leading my horse, and
you can fancy how mortified I was over that performance, and it was really unnecessary, too.
Lieutenant Golden, also the sergeant, advised me to dismount and try another horse, but I said
no! I would ride that one if I could have a severer bit and my saddle girths tightened. Dismount
before Lieutenant Golden, a cavalry officer and Faye's classmate, and all those staring troopers--I,
the wife of an infantry officer? Never! It was my first experience with a runaway horse, but
I had kept a firm seat all the time--there was some consolation in that thought.

Well, to my great relief and comfort, it was discovered that the chin chain that is on all
cavalry bits had been left off, and this had made the curb simply a straight bit and wholly
ineffective. The sergeant fastened the chain on and it was made tight, too, and he tightened
the girths and saw that everything was right, and then Lieutenant Golden and I started on our
ride the second time. I expected trouble, as the horse was then leaving his stable and companions,
but when he commenced to back and shake his head I let him know that I held a nice stinging
whip, and that soon stopped the balking. We had to pass three long picket lines of horses and
almost two hundred troopers, every one of whom stared at me with both eyes. It was embarrassing,
of course, but I was glad to let the whole line of them see that I was capable of managing
my own horse, which was still very frisky. I knew very well, too, that the sergeant's angry
roar when he asked, "Who bridled this horse?" had been heard by many of them. Our ride was
very delightful after all its exciting beginning, and we are going again to morrow morning.
I want to let those troopers see that I am not afraid to ride the horse they selected for me.

I shall be so glad when Hal is large enough to go with me. He is growing fast, but at present
seems to be mostly legs. He is devoted to me, but I regret to say that he and our old soldier
cook are not the dearest friends. Findlay is so stupid he cannot appreciate the cunning things
the little dog does. Hal is fed mush and milk only until he gets his second teeth, and consequently
he is wild about meat. The odor of a broiling beefsteak the other day was more than he could
resist, so he managed to get his freedom by slipping his collar over his head, and rushing
into the kitchen, snatched the sizzling steak and was out again before Findlay could collect
his few wits, and get across the room to stop him. The meat was so hot it burned his mouth,
and he howled from the pain, but drop it he did not until he was far from the cook. This I
consider very plucky in so young a dog! Findlay ran after the little hound, yelling and swearing,
and I ran after Findlay to keep him from beating my dog. Of course we did not have beefsteak
that day, but, as I told Faye, it was entirely Findlay's fault. He should have kept watch of
things, and not made it possible for Hal to kill himself by eating a whole big steak!

Yesterday, Lieutenant Golden came in to luncheon, and when we went in the dining room I saw
at once that things were wrong, very wrong. A polished table is an unknown luxury down here,
but fresh table linen we do endeavor to have. But the cloth on the table yesterday was a sight
to behold, with big spots of dirt all along one side and dirt on top. Findlay came in the room
just as I reached the table, and I said, "Findlay, what has happened here?" He gave one look
at the cloth where I pointed, and then striking his knuckles together, almost sobbed out, "Dot
tamn dog, mum!" Faye and Lieutenant Golden quickly left the room to avoid hearing any more
remarks of that kind, for it was really very dreadful in Findlay to use such language. This
left me alone, of course, to pacify the cook, which I found no easy task. Old Findlay had pickled
a choice buffalo tongue with much care and secrecy, and had served it for luncheon yesterday
as a great surprise and treat. There was the platter on the table, but there could be no doubt
of its having been licked clean. Not one tiny piece of tongue could be seen any place.

The window was far up, and in vain did I try to convince everyone that a strange dog had come
in and stolen the meat, that Hal was quite too small to have reached so far; but Findlay only
looked cross and Faye looked hungry, so I gave that up. Before night, however, there was trouble
and a very sick puppy in the house, and once again I thought he would die. And every few minutes
that disagreeable old cook would come in and ask about the dog, and say he was afraid he could
not get well--always with a grin on his face that was exasperating. Finally, I told him that
if he had served only part of the tongue, as he should have done, the dog would not have been
so ill, and we could have had some of it. That settled the matter--he did not come in again.
Findlay has served several enlistments, and is regarded as an old soldier, and once upon a
time he was cook for the colonel of the regiment, therefore he sometimes forgets himself and
becomes aggressive. I do not wonder that Hal dislikes him.

And Hal dislikes Indians, too, and will often hear their low mumbling and give little growls
before I dream that one is near. They have a disagreeable way of coming to the windows and
staring in. Sometimes before you have heard a sound you will be conscious of an uncomfortable
feeling, and looking around you will discover five or six Indians, large and small, peering
at you through the windows, each ugly nose pressed flat against the glass! It is enough to
drive one mad. You never know when they are about, their tread is so stealthy with their moccasined
feet.

Faye is officer of the guard every third day now. This sounds rather nice; but it means that
every third day and night--exactly twenty-four hours--he has to spend at the guard house, excepting
when making the rounds, that is, visiting sentries on post, and is permitted to come to the
house just long enough to eat three hurried meals. This is doing duty, and would be all right
if there were not a daily mingling of white and colored troops which often brings a colored
sergeant over a white corporal and privates. But the most unpleasant part for the officer of
the guard is that the partition in between the officer's room and guard room is of logs, unchinked,
and very open, and the weather is very hot! and the bugs, which keep us all in perpetual warfare
in our houses, have full sway there, going from one room to the other.

The officers say that the negroes make good soldiers and fight like fiends. They certainly
manage to stick on their horses like monkeys. The Indians call them "buffalo soldiers," because
their woolly heads are so much like the matted cushion that is between the horns of the buffalo.
We had letters from dear old Fort Lyon yesterday, and the news about Lieutenant Baldwin is
not encouraging. He is not improving and Doctor Wilder is most anxious about him. But a man
as big and strong as he was must certainly get well in time.

CAMP SUPPLY, INDIAN TERRITORY, June, 1872.

IT seems as if I had to write constantly of unpleasant occurrences, but what else can I do
since unpleasant occurrences are ever coming along? This time I must tell you that Faye has
been turned out of quarters--"ranked out," as it is spoken of in the Army. But it all amounts
to the same thing, and means that we have been driven out of our house and home, bag and baggage,
because a captain wanted that one set of quarters! Call it what one chooses, the experience
was not pleasant and will be long remembered. Being turned out was bad enough in itself, but
the manner in which it was done was humiliating in the extreme. We had been in the house only
three weeks and had worked so hard during that time to make it at all comfortable. Findlay
wanted to tear down the canvas partition in the dining room when we left the house, and I was
sorry later on that I had not consented to his doing so.

One morning at ten o'clock I received a note from Faye, written at the guard house, saying
that his set of quarters had been selected by a cavalry officer who had just arrived at the
post, and that every article of ours must be out of the house that day by one o'clock! Also
that, as he was officer of the guard, it would be impossible for him to assist me in the least,
except to send some enlisted men to move the things. At first I was dazed and wholly incapable
of comprehending the situation--it seemed so preposterous to expect anyone to move everything
out of a house in three hours. But as soon as I recovered my senses I saw at once that not
one second of the precious time must be wasted, and that the superintendence of the whole thing
had fallen upon me.

So I gathered my forces, and the four men started to work in a way that showed they would do
everything in their power to help me. All that was possible for us to do, however, was almost
to throw things out in a side yard, for remember, please, we had only three short hours in
which to move everything--and this without, warning or preparation of any kind. All things,
big and small, were out by one o'clock, and just in time, too, to avoid a collision with the
colored soldiers of the incoming cavalry officer, who commenced taking furniture and boxes
in the house at precisely that hour.

Of course there was no hotel or even restaurant for me to go to, and I was too proud and too
indignant to beg shelter in the house of a friend--in fact, I felt as if I had no friend. So
I sat down on a chair in the yard with the little dog by me, thinking, I remember, that the
chair was our own property and no one had a right to object to my being there. And I also remember
that the whole miserable affair brought to mind most vividly scenes of eviction that had been
illustrated in the papers from time to time, when poor women had been evicted for nonpayment
of rent!

Just as I had reached the very lowest depths of misery and woe, Mrs. Vincent appeared, and
Faye almost immediately after. We three went to Mrs. Vincent's house for luncheon, and in fact
I remained there until we came to this house. She had just heard of what had happened and hastened
down to me. Captain Vincent said it was entirely the fault of the commanding officer for permitting
such a disgraceful order to leave his office; that Captain Park's family could have remained
one night longer in tents here, as they had been in camp every night on the road from Fort Sill.

There came a ludicrous turn to all this unpleasantness, for, by the ranking out of one junior
second lieutenant, six or more captains and first lieutenants had to move. It was great fun
the next day to see the moving up and down the officers' line of all sorts of household goods,
for it showed that a poor second lieutenant was of some importance after all!

But I am getting on too fast. Faye, of course, was entitled to two rooms, some place in the
post, but it seems that the only quarters he could take were those occupied by Lieutenant Cole,
so Faye decided at once to go into tents himself, in preference to compelling Lieutenant Cole
to do so. Now it so happened that the inspector general of the department was in the garrison,
and as soon as he learned the condition of affairs, he ordered the post quartermaster to double
two sets of quarters--that is, make four sets out of two--and designated the quartermaster's
own house for one of the two. But Major Knox divided off two rooms that no one could possibly
occupy, and in consequence has still all of his large house. But the other large set that was
doubled was occupied by a senior captain, who, when his quarters were reduced in size, claimed
a new choice, and so, turning another captain out, the ranking out went on down to a second
lieutenant. But no one took our old house from Captain Park, much to my disappointment, and
he still has it.

The house that we are in now is built of cedar logs, and was the commanding officer's house
at one time. It has a long hall running through the center, and on the left side Major Hunt
and his family have the four rooms, and we have the two on the right. Our kitchen is across
the yard, and was a chicken house not so very long ago. It has no floor, of course, so we had
loads of dirt dug out and all filled in again with clean white sand, and now, after the log
walls have been scraped and whitened, and a number of new shelves put up, it is really quite
nice. Our sleeping room has no canvas on the walls inside, and much of the chinking has fallen
out, leaving big holes, and I never have a light in that room after dark, fearing that Indians
might shoot me through those holes. They are skulking about the post all the time.

We have another cook now--a soldier of course--and one that is rather inexperienced. General
Phillips ordered Findlay back to the company, saying he was much needed there, but he was company
cook just one day when he was transferred to the general's own kitchen. Comment is unnecessary!
But it is all for the best, I am sure, for Farrar is very fond of Hal, and sees how intelligent
he is, just as I do. The little dog is chained to a kennel all the time now, and, like his
mistress, is trying to become dignified.

Faye was made post adjutant this morning, which we consider rather complimentary, since the
post commander is in the cavalry, and there are a number of cavalry lieutenants here. General
Dickinson is a polished old gentleman, and his wife a very handsome woman who looks almost
as young as her daughter. Miss Dickinson, the general's older daughter, is very pretty and
a fearless rider. In a few days we two are to commence our morning rides.

How very funny that I should have forgotten to tell you that I have a horse, at least I hope
he will look like a horse when he has gained some flesh and lost much long hair. He is an Indian
pony of very good size, and has a well-shaped head and slender little legs. He has a fox trot,
which is wonderfully easy, and which he apparently can keep up indefinitely, and like all Indian
horses can "run like a deer." So, altogether, he will do very well for this place, where rides
are necessarily curtailed. I call him Cheyenne, because we bought him of Little Raven, a Cheyenne
chief. I shall be so glad when I can ride again, as I have missed so much the rides and grand
hunts at Fort Lyon.

Later: The mail is just in, and letters have come from Fort Lyon telling us of the death of
Lieutenant Baldwin! It is dreadful--and seems impossible. They write that he became more and
more despondent, until finally it was impossible to rouse him sufficiently to take an interest
in his own life. Faye and I have lost a friend--a real, true friend. A brother could not have
been kinder, more considerate than he was to both of us always. How terribly he must have grieved
over the ruin of the horse he was so proud of, and loved so well!

CAMP SUPPLY, INDIAN TERRITORY, September, 1872.

THE heat here is still intense, and it never rains, so everything is parched to a crisp. The
river is very low and the water so full of alkali that we are obliged to boil every drop before
it is used for drinking or cooking, and even then it is so distasteful that we flavor it with
sugar of lemons so we can drink it at all. Fresh lemons are unknown here, of course. The ice
has given out, but we manage to cool the water a little by keeping it in bottles and canteens
down in the dug-out cellar.

Miss Dickinson and I continue our daily rides, but go out very early in the morning. We have
an orderly now, as General Dickinson considers it unsafe for us to go without an escort, since
we were chased by an Indian the other day. That morning the little son of General Phillips
was with us, and as it was not quite as warm as usual, we decided to canter down the sunflower
road a little way--a road that runs to the crossing of Wolf Creek through an immense field
of wild sunflowers. These sunflowers grow to a tremendous height in this country, so tall that
sometimes you cannot see over them even when on horseback. Just across the creek there is a
village of Apache Indians, and as these Indians are known to be hostile, this particular road
is considered rather unsafe.

But we rode on down a mile or more without seeing a thing, and had just turned our ponies'
heads homeward when little Grote, who was back of us, called out that an Indian was coming.
That was startling, but upon looking back we saw that he was a long distance away and coming
leisurely, so we did not pay much attention to him.

But Grote was more watchful, and very soon screamed, "Mrs. Rae, Mrs. Rae, the Indian is coming
fast--he's going to catch us!" And then, without wasting time by looking back, we started our
ponies with a bound that put them at their best pace, poor little Grote lashing his most unmercifully,
and crying every minute, "He'll catch us! He'll catch us!"

That the Indian was on a fleet pony and was gaining upon us was very evident, and what might
have happened had we not soon reached the sutler's store no one can tell, but we did get there
just as he caught up with us, and as we drew in our panting horses that hideous savage rode
up in front of us and circled twice around us, his pony going like a whirlwind; and in order
to keep his balance, the Indian leaned far over on one side, his head close to the pony's neck.
He said "How" with a fiendish grin that showed how thoroughly he was enjoying our frightened
faces, and then turned his fast little beast back to the sunflower road. Of course, as long
as the road to the post was clear we were in no very great danger, as our ponies were fast,
but if that savage could have passed us and gotten us in between him and the Apache village,
we would have lost our horses, if not our lives, for turning off through the sunflowers would
have been an impossibility.

The very next morning, I think it was, one of the government mules wandered away, and two of
the drivers went in search of it, but not finding it in the post, one of the men suggested
that they should go to the river where the post animals are watered. It is a fork of the Canadian
River, and is just over a little sand hill, not one quarter of a mile back of the quarters,
but not in the direction of the sunflower road. The other man, however, said he would not go--that
it was not safe--and came back to the corral, so the one who proposed going went on alone.

Time passed and the man did not return, and finally a detail was sent out to look him up. They
went directly to the river, and there they found him, just on the other side of the hill--dead.
He had been shot by some fiendish Indian soon after leaving his companion. The mule has never
been found, and is probably in a far-away Indian village, where he brays in vain for the big
rations of corn he used to get at the government corral.

Last Monday, soon after luncheon, forty or fifty Indians came rushing down the drive in front
of the officers' quarters, frightening some of us almost out of our senses. Where they came
from no one could tell, for not one sentry had seen them until they were near the post. They
rode past the houses like mad creatures, and on out to the company gardens, where they made
their ponies trample and destroy every growing thing. Only a few vegetables will mature in
this soil and climate, but melons are often very good, and this season the gardeners had taken
much pains with a crop of fine watermelons that were just beginning to ripen. But not one of
these was spared--every one was broken and crushed by the little hoofs of the ponies, which
seem to enjoy viciousness of this kind as much as the Indians themselves.

A company of infantry was sent at once to the gardens, but as it was not quite possible for
the men to outrun the ponies, the mischief had been done before they got there, and all they
could do was to force them back at the point of the bayonet. Cavalry was ordered out, also,
to drive them away, but none of the troops were allowed to fire upon them, and that the Indians
knew very well. It might have brought on an uprising!

It seems that the Indians were almost all young bucks out for a frolic, but quite ready, officers
say, for any kind of devilment. They rode around the post three or four times at breakneck
speed, each circle being larger, and taking them farther away. At last they all started for
the hills and gradually disappeared--all but one, a sentinel, who could be seen until dark
sitting his pony on the highest hill. I presume there were dozens of Indians on the sand hills
around the post peeking over to see how the fun went on.

They seem to be watching the post every second of the day, ready to pounce upon any unprotected
thing that ventures forth, be it man or beast. At almost any time two or three black dots can
be seen on the top of the white sand hills, and one wonders how they can lie for hours in the
hot, scorching sand with the sun beating down on their heads and backs. And all the time their
tough little ponies will stand near them, down the hill, scarcely moving or making a sound.
Some scouts declare that an Indian pony never whinnies or sneezes! But that seems absurd, although
some of those little beasts show wonderful intelligence and appear to have been apt pupils
in treachery.

CAMP SUPPLY, INDIAN TERRITORY, October, 1872.

THIS place is becoming more dreadful each day, and every one of the awful things I feared might
happen here seems to be coming to pass. Night before last the post was actually attacked by
Indians! It was about one o'clock when the entire garrison was awakened by rifle shots and
cries of "Indians! Indians!" There was pandemonium at once. The "long roll" was beaten on the
infantry drums, and "boots and saddles" sounded by the cavalry bugles, and these are calls
that startle all who hear them, and strike terror to the heart of every army woman. They mean
that something is wrong--very wrong--and demand the immediate report for duty at their respective
companies of every officer and man in the garrison.

Faye jumped into his uniform, and saying a hasty good-by, ran to his company, as did all the
other officers, and very soon we could hear the shouting of orders from every direction.

Our house is at the extreme end of the officers' line and very isolated, therefore Mrs. Hunt
and I were left in a most deplorable condition, with three little children--one a mere baby--to
take care of. We put them all in one bed and covered them as well as we could without a light,
which we did not dare have, of course. Then we saw that all the doors and windows were fastened
on both sides. We decided that it would be quite impossible for us to remain shut up inside
the house, so we dressed our feet, put on long waterproof coats over our nightgowns as quickly
and silently as possible, and then we sat down on the steps of the front door to await--we
knew not what. I had firm hold of a revolver, and felt exceedingly grateful all the time that
I had been taught so carefully how to use it, not that I had any hope of being able to do more
with it than kill myself, if I fell in the hands of a fiendish Indian. I believe that Mrs.
Hunt, however, was almost as much afraid of the pistol as she was of the Indians.

Ten minutes after the shots were fired there was perfect silence throughout the garrison, and
we knew absolutely nothing of what was taking place around us. Not one word did we dare even
whisper to each other, our only means of communication being through our hands. The night was
intensely dark and the air was close--almost suffocating.

In this way we sat for two terrible hours, ever on the alert, ever listening for the stealthy
tread of a moccasined foot at a corner of the house. And then, just before dawn, when we were
almost exhausted by the great strain on our strength and nerves, our husbands came. They told
us that a company of infantry had been quite near us all the time, and that a troop of cavalry
had been constantly patrolling around the post. I cannot understand how such perfect silence
was maintained by the troops, particularly the cavalry. Horses usually manage to sneeze at
such times.

There is always a sentry at our corner of the garrison, and it was this sentinel who was attacked,
and it is the general belief among the officers that the Indians came to this corner hoping
to get the-troops concentrated at the beat farthest from the stables, and thus give them a
chance to steal some, if not all, of the cavalry horses. But Mr. Red Man's strategy is not
quite equal to that of the Great Father's soldiers, or he would have known that troops would
be sent at once to protect the horses.

There were a great many pony tracks to be seen in the sand the next morning, and there was
a mounted sentinel on a hill a mile or so away. It was amusing to watch him through a powerful
field glass, and we wished that he could know just how his every movement could be seen. He
sat there on his pony for hours, both Indian and horse apparently perfectly motionless, but
with his face always turned toward the post, ready to signal to his people the slightest movement
of the troops.

Faye says that the colored troops were real soldiers that night, alert and plucky. I can readily
believe that some of them can be alert, and possibly good soldiers, and that they can be good
thieves too, for last Saturday night they stole from us the commissary stores we had expected
to last us one week--everything, in fact, except coffee, sugar, and such things that we keep
in the kitchen, where it is dry.

The commissary is open Saturday mornings only, at which time we are requested to purchase all
supplies we will need from there for the following week, and as we have no fresh vegetables
whatever, and no meat except beef, we are very dependent upon the canned goods and other things
in the commissary.

Last Saturday Mrs. Hunt and I sent over as usual, and most of the supplies were put in a little
dug-out cellar in the yard that we use together--she having one side, I the other. On Sunday
morning Farrar happened to be the first cook to go out for things for breakfast, and he found
that the door had been broken open and the shelves as bare as Mother Hubbard's. Everything
had been carried off except a few candles on Mrs. Hunt's side, and a few cakes of laundry soap
on mine! The candles they had no use for, and the thieves were probably of a class that had
no use for soap, either.

Our breakfast that morning was rather light, but as soon as word got abroad of our starving
condition, true army hospitality and generosity manifested itself. We were invited out to luncheon,
and to dinner, and to breakfast the next morning. You can see how like one big family a garrison
can be, and how in times of trouble we go to each other's assistance. Of course, now and then
we have disagreeable persons with us--those who will give you only three hours to move out
of your house, or one who will order your cook from you.

CAMP SUPPLY, INDIAN TERRITORY, January, 1873.

ALL that remained of Captain White was carried to the little cemetery yesterday, with all the
military honors possible at such a far-away post We have no chaplain, therefore one of the
cavalry officers read the service for the dead at the house, just before the march to the cemetery.
Almost all of the cavalry of the garrison was out, mounted, Captain White's own troop having
the lead, of course, and the greater part of the infantry was out also, and there was a firing
detail, with guns reversed.

The casket, covered with a large flag, was carried on a caisson, and his horse, led by an orderly,
was covered with a large blanket of black cloth. Over this was the saddle, and on top of the
saddle rested his helmet--the yellow horsehair plume and gold trimmings looking soiled by long
service. His sabre was there, too, and strapped to the saddle on each side were his uniform
boots, toes in stirrups--all reversed! This riderless horse, with its pall of black, yellow
helmet, and footless boots, was the saddest sight imaginable.

I did not go to the cemetery, but we heard distinctly the firing of the three volleys over
the grave and the sounding of taps on the bugles. The garrison flag had been drawn to half
mast almost the moment of Captain White's death, but at the last sound of taps it was immediately
pulled up to full mast, and soon the troops came back to their quarters, the field music playing
lively airs.

This seemed so unnecessarily cruel, for Mrs. White must have heard every note, and she is still
so wretchedly ill. The tiny baby has been taken from the house by the motherly wife of an officer,
and the other tots--four in all--are being cared for by others. We have all been taking turns
in sitting up nights during the illness of husband and wife, and last night three of us were
there, Captain Tillman and Faye in one room, and I with Mrs. White. It was a terrible night,
probably the one that has exacted, or will exact, the greatest self-control, as it was the
one before the burial.

In civil life a poor widow can often live right on in her old home, but in the Army, never!
Mrs. White will have to give up the quarters just as soon as she and the little baby are strong
enough to travel. She has been in a warm climate many years, and her friends are all in the
North, so to-morrow a number of us are to commence making warm clothing for her and the children.
She has absolutely nothing of the kind, and seems to be pitifully helpless and incapable of
thinking for herself.

Soon after I got home this morning and was trying to get a little sleep, I heard screams and
an awful commotion across the hall in one of Mrs. Hunt's rooms, and running over to see what
was the matter, I found Mrs. Hunt standing upon a chair, and her cook running around like a
madman, with a stick of wood in his hand, upsetting furniture and whacking things generally.
I naturally thought of a mouse, and not being afraid of them, I went on in and closed the door.
I doubt if Mrs. Hunt saw me, she was so intently watching the man, who kept on upsetting things.
He stopped finally, and then held up on the wood a snake--a dead rattlesnake! We measured it,
and it was over two feet long.

You can see how the house is built by the photograph I sent you, that there are no chimneys,
and that the stovepipes go straight up through the pole and sod roof. The children insist that
the snake came down the pipe in the liveliest kind of a way, so it must have crawled up the
logs to the roof, and finding the warmth of the pipe, got too close to the opening and slipped
through. However that may be, he got into the room where the three little children were playing
alone. Fortunately, the oldest recognized the danger at once, and ran screaming to her mother,
the other two following. Mrs. Hunt was almost ill over the affair, and Major Hunt kept a man
on top and around the old house hunting for snakes, until we began to fear it would be pulled
down on our heads.

This country itself is bad enough, and the location of the post is most unfortunate, but to
compel officers and men to live in these old huts of decaying, moldy wood, which are reeking
with malaria and alive with bugs, and perhaps snakes, is wicked. Officers' families are not
obliged to remain here, of course.

But at dreadful places like this is where the plucky army wife is most needed. Her very presence
has often a refining and restraining influence over the entire garrison, from the commanding
officer down to the last recruit. No one can as quickly grasp the possibilities of comfort
in quarters like these, or as bravely busy herself to fix them up. She knows that the stay
is indefinite, that it may be for six months, or possibly six years, but that matters not.
It is her army home--Brass Button's home--and however discouraging its condition may be, for
his sake she pluckily, and with wifely pride, performs miracles, always making the house comfortable
and attractive.

FORT DODGE, KANSAS, January, 1873.

OUR coming here was most unexpected and very unpleasant in every way. General Phillips and
Major Barker quarreled over something, and Major Barker preferred charges against the general,
who is his company commander, and now General Phillips is being tried here by general court
martial. Faye and I were summoned as witnesses by Major Barker, just because we heard a few
words that were said in front of our window late one night! The court has thoughtfully excused
me from going into the court room, as I could only corroborate Faye's testimony. I am so relieved,
for it would have been a terrible ordeal to have gone in that room where all those officers
are sitting, in full-dress uniform, too, and General Phillips with them. I would have been
too frightened to have remembered one thing, or to have known whether I was telling the truth
or not.

General Dickinson and Ben dark, his interpreter, came up in the ambulance with us, and the
poor general is now quite ill, the result of an ice bath in the Arkansas River! When we started
to come across on the ice here at the ford, the mule leaders broke through and fell down on
the river bottom, and being mules, not only refused to get up, but insisted upon keeping their
noses under the water. The wheelers broke through, too, but had the good sense to stand on
their feet, but they gave the ambulance such a hard jerk that the front wheels broke off more
ice and went down to the river bottom, also. By the time all this had occurred, I was the only
one left inside, and found myself very busy trying to keep myself from slipping down under
the front seat, where water had already come in. General Dickinson and Faye were doing everything
possible to assist the men.

Just how it was accomplished would make too long a story to tell, but in a short time the leaders
were dragged out and on their feet, and the rear wheels of the ambulance let down on the river
bottom, and then we were all pulled up on the ice again, and came on to the post in safety.
All but General Dickinson, who undertook to hold out of the water the heads of the two leaders
who seemed determined to commit suicide by keeping their noses down, the general forgetting
for once that he was commanding officer. But one of those government mules did not forget,
and with a sudden jerk of his big head he pulled the general over and down from the ice into
the water, and in such a way that he was wedged tight in between the two animals. One would
have expected much objection on the part of the mules to the fishing out of the general, but
those two mules kept perfectly still, apparently satisfied with the mischief that had already
been done. I can fancy that there is one mule still chuckling over the fact of having gotten
even with a commanding officer! It is, quite warm now, and the ice has gone out of the river,
so there will be no trouble at the ford to-morrow, when we start back.

There is one company of Faye's regiment stationed here, and the officer in command of the post
is major of the Third, so we feel at home. We are staying with Lieutenant Harvey, who is making
it very pleasant for us. Hal is with us, and is being petted by everybody, but most of all
by the cavalry officers, some of whom have hunted with Magic, Hal's father.

Last evening, while a number of us were sitting on the veranda after dinner, a large turkey
gobbler came Stalking down the drive in front of the officers' quarters. Hal was squatted down,
hound fashion, at the top of the steps, and of course saw the gobbler at once. He never moved,
except to raise his ears a little, but I noticed that his eyes opened wider and wider, and
could see that he was making an estimate of the speed of that turkey, and also making up his
mind that it was his duty as a self-respecting hound to resent the airs that were being assumed
by the queer thing with a red nose and only two legs. So as soon as the turkey passed, down
he jumped after him, and over him and around him, until really the poor thing looked about
one half his former size. Then Hal got back of the turkey and waited for it to run, which it
proceeded to do without loss of time, and then a funny race was on! I could have cried, I was
so afraid Hal would injure the turkey, but everyone else laughed and watched, as though it
was the sporting event of the year, and they assured me that the dog would have to stop when
he got to the very high gate at the end of the line. But they did not know that greyhound,
for the gate gave him still another opportunity to show the thing that had wings to help its
absurd legs along what a hound puppy could do. When they reached the gate the turkey went under,
but the puppy went over, making a magnificent jump that landed him yards in advance of the
turkey, thereby causing him the loss of the race, for before he could stop himself and turn,
the gobbler had very wisely hidden himself in a back yard.

There was a shouting and clapping of hands all along the line because of the beautiful jump
of so young a dog, but I must confess that all I thought of just then was gratitude that my
dog had not made an untimely plucking of somebody's turkey, for in this country a turkey is
something rare and valuable.

Hal came trotting back with his loftiest steps and tail high in the air, evidently much pleased
with his part in the entertainment. He is very tall now, and ran by the ambulance all the way
up, and has been following me on my rides for some time.

CIMARRON REDOUBT, KANSAS, January, 1873.

WHEN Faye was ordered here I said at once that I would come, too, and so I came! We are at
a mail station--that is, where the relay mules are kept and where the mail wagon and escort
remain overnight on their weekly trips from Camp Supply to Fort Dodge. A non-commissioned officer
and ten privates are here all the time.

The cause of Faye's being here is, the contractor is sending big trains of grain down to Camp
Supply for the cavalry horses and other animals, and it was discovered that whisky was being
smuggled to the Indians in the sacks of oats. So General Dickinson sent an officer to the redoubt
to inspect each sack as it is carried past by the ox trains. Lieutenant Cole was the first
officer to be ordered up, but the place did not agree with him, and at the end of three weeks
he appeared at the post on a mail wagon, a very sick man--very sick indeed! In less than half
an hour Faye was ordered to relieve him, to finish Lieutenant Cole's tour in addition to his
own detail of thirty days, which will give us a stay here of over five weeks.

As soon as I heard of the order I announced that I was coming, but it was necessary to obtain
the commanding officer's permission first. This seemed rather hopeless for a time, the general
declaring I would "die in such a hole," where I could have no comforts, but he did not say
I should not come. Faye did not want to leave me alone at the post, but was afraid the life
here would be too rough for me, so I decided the matter for myself and began to make preparations
to come away, and that settled all discussion. We were obliged to start early the next morning,
and there were only a few hours in which to get ready. Packing the mess chest and getting commissary
stores occupied the most time, for after our clothing was put away the closing of the house
was a farce, "Peu de bien, peu de soin!" Farrar was permitted to come, and we brought Hal and
the horse, so the family is still together.

The redoubt is made of gunny sacks filled with sand, and is built on the principle of a permanent
fortification in miniature, with bastions, flanks, curtains, and ditch, and has two pieces
of artillery. The parapet is about ten feet high, upon the top of which a sentry walks all
the time. This is technically correct, for Faye has just explained it all to me, so I could
tell you about our castle on the plains. We have only two rooms for our own use, and these
are partitioned off with vertical logs in one corner of the fortification, and our only roof
is of canvas.

When we first got here the dirt floor was very much like the side of a mountain--so sloping
that we had difficulty in sitting upon the chairs. Faye had these made level at once, and fresh,
dry sand sprinkled everywhere.

We are right in the heart of the Indian country, almost on the line between Kansas and the
Indian Territory, and are surrounded by any number of villages of hostile Indians. We are forty
miles from Camp Supply and about the same distance from Fort Dodge. The weather is delightful--sunny
and very warm.

I was prevented from finishing this the other day by the coming of a dozen or more Arapahoe
Indians, but as the mail does not go north until to-morrow morning, I can tell you of the more
than busy time we have had since then.

For two or three days the weather had been unseasonably warm--almost like summer--and one evening
it was not only hot, but so sultry one wondered where all the air had gone. About midnight,
however, a terrific wind came up, cold and piercing, and very soon snow began to fall, and
then we knew that we were having a "Texas norther," a storm that is feared by all old frontiersmen.
Of course we were perfectly safe from the wind, for only a cyclone could tear down these thick
walls of sand, but the snow sifted in every place--between the logs of the inner wall, around
the windows--and almost buried us. And the cold became intense.

In the morning the logs of that entire wall from top to bottom, were white inside with snow,
and looked like a forest in the far North. The floor was covered with snow, and so was the
foot of the bed! Our rooms were facing just right to catch the full force of the blizzard.
The straightening-out was exceedingly unpleasant, for a fire could not be started in either
stove until after the snow had been swept out. But a few soldiers can work miracles at times,
and this proved to be one of the times. I went over to the orderly room while they brushed
and scraped everywhere and fixed us up nicely, and we were soon warm and dry.

The norther continued twenty-four hours, and the cold is still freezing. All the wood inside
was soon consumed, and the men were compelled to go outside the redoubt for it, and to split
it, too. The storm was so fierce and wholly blinding that it was necessary to fasten the end
of a rope around the waist of each man as he went out, and tie the other end to the entrance
gate to prevent him from losing his direction and wandering out on the plains. Even with this
precaution it was impossible for a man to remain out longer than ten minutes, because of the
terribly cold wind that at times was almost impossible to stand up against.

Faye says that he cannot understand why the place has never been made habitable, or why Lieutenant
Cole did not have the wood brought inside, where it would be convenient in case of a storm.
Some of the men are working at the wood still, and others are making their quarters' a little
more decent. Every tiny opening in our own log walls has been chinked with pieces of blanket
or anything that could be found, and the entire dirt floor has been covered with clean grain
sacks that are held down smooth and tight by little pegs of wood, and over this rough carpet
we have three rugs we brought with us. At the small window are turkey-red curtains that make
very good shades when let down at night. There are warm army blankets on the camp bed, and
a folded red squaw blanket on the trunk. The stove is as bright and shining as the strong arm
of a soldier could make it, and on it is a little brass teakettle singing merrily.

Altogether the little place looks clean and cheerful, quite unlike the "hole" we came to. Farrar
has attended to his part in the kitchen also, and things look neat and orderly there. A wall
tent has been pitched just outside our door that gives us a large storeroom and at the same
time screens us from the men's quarters that are along one side of the sandbag walls.

On the side farthest from us the mules and horses are stabled, but one would never know that
an animal was near if those big-headed mules did not occasionally raise their voices in brays
that sound like old squeaky pumps. When it is pleasant they are all picketed out.

At the first coming of the blizzard the sentry was ordered from the parapet, and is still off,
and I am positive that unless one goes on soon at night I shall be wholly deaf, because I strain
my ears the whole night through listening for Indians. The men are supposed to be ever ready
for an attack, but if they require drums and cannon to awaken them in a garrison, how can they
possibly hear the stealthy step of an Indian here? It is foolish to expect anything so unreasonable.

CIMARRON REDOUBT, KANSAS, January, 1873.

FANCY our having given a dinner party at this sand-bag castle on the plains, miles and miles
from a white man or woman! The number of guests was small, but their rank was immense, for
we entertained Powder-Face, Chief of the Arapahoe Nation, and Wauk, his young squaw, mother
of his little chief.

Two or three days ago Powder-Face came to make a formal call upon the "White Chief," and brought
with him two other Indians--aides we would call them, I presume. A soldier offered to hold
his horse, but he would not dismount, and sat his horse with grave dignity until Faye went
out and in person invited him to come in and have a smoke. He is an Indian of striking personality--is
rather tall, with square, broad shoulders, and the poise of his head tells one at once that
he is not an ordinary savage.

We must have found favor with him, for as he was going away he announced that he would come
again the next day and bring his squaw with him. Then Faye, in his hospitable way, invited
them to a midday dinner! I was almost speechless from horror at the very thought of sitting
at a table with an Indian, no matter how great a chief he might be. But I could say nothing,
of course, and he rode away with the understanding that he was to return the following day.
Faye assured me that it would be amusing to watch them, and be a break in the monotony here.

They appeared promptly, and I became interested in Wauk at once, for she was a remarkable squaw.
Tall and slender, with rather a thin, girlish face, very unlike the short, fat squaws one usually
sees, and she had the appearance of being rather tidy, too. I could not tell if she was dressed
specially for the occasion, as I had never seen her before, but everything she had on was beautifully
embroidered with beads--mostly white--and small teeth of animals. She wore a sort of short
skirt, high leggings, and of course moccasins, and around her shoulders and falling far below
her waist was a queer-shaped garment--neither cape nor shawl--dotted closely all over with
tiny teeth, which were fastened on at one end and left to dangle.

High up around her neck was a dog collar of fine teeth that was really beautiful, and there
were several necklaces of different lengths hanging below it, one of which was of polished
elk teeth and very rare. The skins of all her clothing had been tanned until they were as soft
as kid. Any number of bracelets were on her arms, many of them made of tin, I think. Her hair
was parted and hung in loose ropes down each shoulder in front. Her feet and hands were very
small, even for an Indian, and showed that life had been kind to her. I am confident that she
must have been a princess by birth, she was so different from all squaws I have seen. She could
not speak one word of English, but her lord, whom she seemed to adore, could make himself understood
very well by signs and a word now and then.

Powder-Face wore a blanket, but underneath it was a shirt of fine skins, the front of which
was almost covered with teeth, beads, and wampum. His hair was roped on each side and hung
in front, and the scalp lock on top was made conspicuous by the usual long feather stuck through
it.

The time came when dinner could no longer be put off, so we sat down. Our menu in this place
is necessarily limited, but a friend at Fort Dodge had added to our stores by sending us some
fresh potatoes and some lettuce by the mail wagon just the day before, and both of these Powder-Face
seemed to enjoy. In fact, he ate of everything, but Wauk was more particular--lettuce, potatoes,
and ham she would not touch. Their table manners were not of the very best form, as might be
expected, but they conducted themselves rather decently--far better than I had feared they
would. All the time I was wondering what that squaw was thinking of things! Powder-Face was
taken to Washington last year with chiefs of other nations to see the "Great Father," so he
knew much of the white man's ways, but Wauk was a wild creature of the plains.

We kept them bountifully supplied with everything on the table, so our own portion of the dinner
would remain unmolested, although neither Faye nor I had much appetite just then. When Farrar
came in to remove the plates for dessert, and Powder-Face saw that the remaining food was about
to disappear, he pushed Farrar back and commenced to attend to the table himself. He pulled
one dish after another to him, and scraped each one clean, spreading all the butter on the
bread, and piled up buffalo steak, ham, potatoes, peas--in fact, every crumb that had been
left--making one disgusting mess, and then tapping it with his finger said, "Papoose! Papoose!"
We had it all put in a paper and other things added, which made Wauk almost bob off her chair
in her delight at having such a feast for her little chief. But the condition of my tablecloth
made me want to bob up and down for other feelings than delight!

After dinner they all sat by the stove and smoked, and Powder-Face told funny things about
his trip East that we could not always interpret, but which caused him and Wauk to laugh heartily.
Wauk sat very close to him, with elbows on her knees, looking as though she would much prefer
to be squatted down upon the floor.

The tepee odor became stifling, so in order to get as far from the Indians as possible, I went
across the room and sat upon a small trunk by the window. I had not been there five minutes,
however, before that wily chief, who had apparently not noticed my existence, got up from his
chair, gathered his blanket around him, and with long strides came straight to me. Then with
a grip of steel on my shoulder, he jerked me from the trunk and fairly slung me over against
the wall, and turning to Faye with his head thrown back he said, "Whisk! Whisk!" at the same
time pointing to the trunk.

The demand was imperious, and the unstudied poise of the powerfully built Indian, so full of
savage dignity, was magnificent. As I calmly think of it now, the whole scene was grand. The
rough room, with its low walls of sand-bags and logs, the Indian princess in her picturesque
dress of skins and beads, the fair army officer in his uniform of blue, both looking in astonishment
at the chief, whose square jaws and flashing eyes plainly told that he was accustomed to being
obeyed, and expected to be obeyed then!

Faye says that I missed part of the scene; that, backed up against sand-bags and clinging to
them on either side for support, stood a slender young woman with pigtail hanging down one
shoulder, so terrified that her face, although brown from exposure to sun and wind, had become
white and chalky. It is not surprising that my face turned white; the only wonder is that the
pigtail did not turn white, too!

It was not right for Faye to give liquor to an Indian, but what else could be done under the
circumstances? There happened to be a flask of brandy in the trunk, but fortunately there was
only a small quantity that we had brought up for medicinal purposes, and it was precious, too,
for we were far from a doctor. But Faye had to get it out for the chief, who had sat there
smoking in such an innocent way, but who had all the time been studying out where there might
be hidden some "whisk!" Wauk drank almost all of it, Powder-Face seeming to derive more pleasure
in seeing her drink his portion than in drinking it himself. Consequently, when she went out
to mount her horse her steps were a little unsteady, over which the chief laughed heartily.

It was with the greatest relief I saw them ride away. They certainly had furnished entertainment,
but it was of a kind that would satisfy one for a long time. I was afraid they might come for
dinner again the following day, but they did not.

Powder-Face thought that the pony Cheyenne was not a good enough horse for me, so the morning
after he was here an Indian, called Dog, appeared with a very good animal, large and well gaited,
that the chief had sent over, not as a present, but for a trade.

We let poor Cheyenne go back to the Indians, a quantity of sugar, coffee, and such things going
with him, and now I have a strawberry-roan horse named Powder-Face.

Chief Powder-Face, who is really not old, is respected by everyone, and has been instrumental
in causing the Arapahoe nation to cease hostilities toward white people. Some of the chiefs
of lesser rank have much of the dignity of high-born savages, particularly Lone Wolf and his
son Big Mouth, both of whom come to see us now and then. Lone Wolf is no longer a warrior,
and of course no longer wears a scalp lock and strings of wampum and beads, and would like
to have you believe that he has ever been the white man's friend, but I suspect that even now
there might be brought forth an old war belt with hanging scalps that could tell of massacre,
torture, and murder. Big Mouth is a war chief, and has the same grand physique as Powder-Face
and a personality almost as striking. His hair is simply splendid, wonderfully heavy and long
and very glossy. His scalp lock is most artistic, and undoubtedly kept in order by a squaw.

The picture of the two generations of chiefs is unique and rare. It shows in detail the everyday
dress of the genuine blanket Indians as we see them here. Just how it was obtained I do not
know, for Indians do not like a camera. We have daily visits from dozens of so-called friendly
Indians, but I would not trust one of them. Many white people who have lived among Indians
and know them well declare that an Indian is always an Indian; that, no matter how fine the
veneering civilization may have given him, there ever lies dormant the traits of the savage,
ready to spring forth without warning in acts of treachery and fiendish cruelty.

CIMARRON REDOUBT, January, 1873.

IT was such a pleasant surprise yesterday when General Bourke drove up to the redoubt on his
way to Camp Supply from dear old Fort Lyon. He has been ordered to relieve General Dickinson,
and was taking down furniture, his dogs, and handsome team. Of course there was an escort,
and ever so many wagons, some loaded with tents and camp outfits. We are rejoicing over the
prospect of having an infantry officer in command when we return to the post. The general remained
for luncheon and seemed to enjoy the broiled buffalo steak very much. He said that now there
are very few buffalo in Colorado and Kansas, because of their wholesale slaughter by white
men during the past year. These men kill them for the skins only, and General Bourke said that
he saw hundreds of carcasses on the plains between Lyon and Dodge. They are boldly coming to
the Indian Territory now, and cavalry has been sent out several times to drive them from the
reservation.

If the Indians should attempt to protect their rights it would be called an uprising at once,
so they have to lie around on the sand hills and watch their beloved buffalo gradually disappear,
and all the time they know only too well that with them will go the skins that give them tepees
and clothing, and the meat that furnishes almost all of their sustenance.

During the blizzard two weeks ago ten or twelve of these buffalo hunters were caught out in
the storm, and being unable to find their own camps they wandered into Indian villages, each
man about half dead from exposure to the cold and hunger. All were suffering more or less from
frozen feet and hands. In every case the Indians fed and cared for them until the storm was
over, and then they told them to go--and go fast and far, or it would not be well with them.
Faye says that it was truly noble in the Indians to keep alive those men when they knew they
had been stealing so much from them. But Faye can always see more good in Indians than I can.
Even a savage could scarcely kill a man when he appeals to him for protection!

There is some kind of excitement here every day--some pleasant, some otherwise--usually otherwise.
The mail escort and wagon are here two nights during the week, one on the way to Fort Dodge,
the other on the return trip, so we hear the little bits of gossip from each garrison. The
long trains of army wagons drawn by mules that carry stores to the post always camp near us
one night, because of the water.

But the most exciting times are when the big ox trains come along that are taking oats and
corn to the quartermaster for the cavalry horses and mules, for in these sacks of grain there
is ever a possibility of liquor being found. The sergeant carefully punches the sacks from
one end to the other with a long steel very much like a rifle rammer; but so far not a thing
has been found, but this is undoubtedly because they know what to expect at this place now.
Faye is always present at the inspection, and once I watched it a short distance away.

When there are camps outside I always feel a little more protected from the Indians. I am kept
awake hours every night by my uncontrollable fear of their getting on top of the parapet and
cutting holes in the canvas over our very heads and getting into the room that way. A sentry
is supposed to walk around the top every few minutes, but I have very little confidence in
his protection. I really rely upon Hal more than the sentry to give warning, for that dog can
hear the stealthy step of an Indian when a long distance from him. And I believe he can smell
them, too.

We bought a beautiful buffalo-calf robe for a bed for him, and that night I folded it down
nicely and called him to it, thinking he would be delighted with so soft and warm a bed. But
no! He went to it because I called him and patted it, but put one foot on it he would not.
He gave a little growl, and putting his tail up, walked away with great dignity and a look
of having been insulted.

Of course the skin smelled strong of the tepee and Indians. We sunned and aired it for days,
and Farrar rubbed the fur with camphor and other things to destroy the Indian odor, and after
much persuading and any amount of patience on our part, Hal finally condescended to use the
robe. He now considers it the finest thing on earth, and keeps close watch of it at all times.

We have visits from Indians every day, and this variation from the monotony is not agreeable
to me, but Faye goes out and has long powwows with them. They do not hesitate to ask for things,
and the more you give the more you may.

The other morning Faye saw a buffalo calf not far from the redoubt, and decided to go for it,
as we, also the men, were in need of fresh meat. So he started off on Powder-Face, taking only
a revolver with him. I went outside to watch him ride off, and just as the calf disappeared
over a little hill and he after it, an Indian rode down the bluff at the right, and about the
same distance away as I thought Faye might be, and started in a canter straight across in the
direction Faye had gone. Very soon he, also, was back of the little hill and out of sight.

I ran inside and called the sergeant, and was trying to explain the situation to him as briefly
as possible when he, without waiting for me to finish, got his rifle and cartridge belt, and
ordering a couple of men to follow, started off on a hard run in the direction I had designated.
As soon as they reached the top of the hill they saw Faye, and saw also that the Indian was
with him. The men went on over slowly, but stopped as soon as they got within rifle range of
Faye, for of course the Indian would never have attempted mischief when he knew that the next
instant he would be riddled with bullets. The Indian was facing the soldiers and saw them at
once, but they were at Faye's back, so he did not know they were there until he turned to come
home.

Faye says that the Indian was quite near before he saw him at all, as he had not been thinking
of Indians in his race after the little buffalo. He came up and said "How!" of course, and
then by signs asked to see Faye's revolver, which has an ivory handle with nickel barrel and
trimmings, all of which the Indian saw at once, and decided to make his own without loss of
time, and then by disarming Faye he would be master of things generally.

Faye pulled the pistol from its holster and held it out for the Indian to look at, but with
a tight grip on the handle and finger on trigger, the muzzle pointed straight to his treacherous
heart. This did not disturb the Indian in the least, for he grasped the barrel and with a twist
of the wrist tried to jerk it down and out of Faye's hand. But this he failed to do, so, with
a sarcastic laugh, he settled himself back on his pony to await a more favorable time when
he could catch Faye off guard. He wanted that glistening pistol, and he probably wanted the
fat pony also. And thus they sat facing each other for several minutes, the Indian apparently
quite indifferent to pistols and all things, and Faye on the alert to protect himself against
the first move of treachery.

It would have been most unsafe for Faye to have turned from the crafty savage, and just how
long the heart-to-heart interview might have lasted or what would have happened no one can
tell if the coming in sight of the soldiers with their long guns had not caused him to change
his tactics. After a while he grunted "How!" again, and, assuming an air of great contempt
for soldiers, guns, and shiny pistols, rode away and soon disappeared over the bluff. There
was only the one Indian in sight, but, as the old sergeant said, "there might have been a dozen
red devils just over the bluff!"

One never knows when the "red devils" are near, for they hide themselves back of a bunch of
sage brush, and their ponies, whose hoofs are never shod, can get over the ground very swiftly
and steal upon you almost as noiselessly as their owners. It is needless to say that we did
not have fresh buffalo that day! And the buffalo calf ran on to the herd wholly unconscious
of his narrow escape.

We expect to return to Camp Supply in a few days, and in many ways I shall be sorry to leave
this place. It is terrible to be so isolated, when one thinks about it, especially if one should
be ill. I shall miss Miss Dickinson in the garrison very much, and our daily rides together.
General Dickinson and his family passed here last week on their way to his new station.

CAMP SUPPLY, INDIAN TERRITORY, February, 1873.

UPON our return from the Cimarron we found a dear, clean house all ready for us to move into.
It was a delightful surprise, and after the wretched huts we have been living in ever since
we came to this post, the house with its white walls and board floors seems like fairyland.
It is made of vertical logs of course, the same as the other quarters, but these have been
freshly chinked, and covered on the inside with canvas. General Bourke ordered the quartermaster
to fix the house for us, and I am glad that Major Knox was the one to receive the order, for
I have not forgotten how disagreeable he was about the fixing up of our first house here. One
can imagine how he must have fumed over the issuing of so much canvas, boards, and even the
nails for the quarters of only a second lieutenant!

Many changes have been made during the few weeks General Bourke has been here, the most important
having been the separating of the white troops from the colored when on guard duty. The officers
and men of the colored cavalry have not liked this, naturally, but it was outrageous to put
white and black in the same little guard room, and colored sergeants over white corporals and
privates. It was good cause for desertion. But all that is at an end now. General Dickinson
is no longer commanding officer, and best of all, the colored troops have been ordered to another
department, and the two troops of white cavalry that are to relieve them are here now and in
camp not far from the post, waiting for the barracks to be vacated.

We have felt very brave since the camp has been established, and two days ago several of us
drove over to a Cheyenne village that is a mile or so up the creek. But soon after we got there
we did not feel a bit brave, for we had not been out of the ambulance more than five minutes,
when one of their criers came racing in on a very wet pony, and rode like mad in and out among
the tepees, all the time screaming something at the top of his voice.

Instantly there was a jabbering by all of them and great commotion. Each Indian talked and
there seemed to be no one to listen. Several tepees were taken down wonderfully quick, and
a number of ponies were hurried in, saddled, and ridden away at race speed, a few squaws wailing
as they watched them go, guns in their hands. Other squaws stood around looking at us, and
showing intense hatred through their wicked eyes. It was soon discovered by all of us that
the village was really not attractive, and four scared women came back to the garrison as fast
as government mules could bring them! What was the cause of so much excitement we will probably
never know--and of course we should not have gone there without an officer, and yet, what could
one man have done against all those savages!

We were honored by a visit from a chief the other day. He was a Cheyenne from the village,
presumably, and his name was White Horse. He must have been born a chief for he was young,
very dignified, and very good-looking, too, for an Indian. Of course his face was painted in
a hideous way, but his leggings and clothing generally were far more tidy than those of most
Indians. His chest was literally covered with polished teeth of animals, beads, and wampum,
arranged artistically in a sort of breastplate, and his scalp lock, which had evidently been
plaited with much care, was ornamented with a very beautiful long feather.

Fortunately Faye was at home when he came, for he walked right in, unannounced, except the
usual "How!" Faye gave him a chair, and this he placed in the middle of the room in a position
so he could watch both doors, and then his rifle was laid carefully upon the floor at his right
side. He could speak his name, but not another word of English, so, thinking to entertain him,
Faye reached for a rifle that was standing in one corner of the room to show him, as it was
of a recent make. Although the rifle was almost at the Indian's back the suspicious savage
saw what Faye was doing, and like a flash he seized his own gun and laid it across his knees,
all the time looking straight at Faye to see what he intended to do next. Not a muscle of his
race moved, but his eyes were wonderful, brilliant, and piercing, and plainly said, "Go ahead,
I'm ready!"

I saw the whole performance and was wondering if I had not better run for assistance, when
Faye laughed, and motioned the Indian to put his rifle down again, at the same time pulling
the trigger of his own to assure him that it was not loaded. This apparently satisfied him,
but he did not put his gun back on the floor, but let it rest across his knees all the time
he sat there. And that was for the longest time--and never once did he change his position,
turn his head, or, as we could see, move an eyelid! But nevertheless he made one feel that
it was not necessary for him to turn his head--that it was all eyes, that he could see up and
down and across and could read one's very thoughts, too.

The Indian from whom we bought Powder-Face--his name is Dog, you will remember--has found us
out, and like a dog comes every day for something to eat. He always walks right into the kitchen;
if the door is closed he opens it. If he is not given things he stands around with the greatest
patience, giving little grunts now and then, and watches Farrar until the poor soldier becomes
worn out and in self-defense gives him something, knowing full well all the time that trouble
is being stored up for the next day. The Indian never seems cross, but smiles at everything,
which is most unusual in a savage.

With the white cavalry is a classmate of Faye's, Lieutenant Isham, and yesterday I went out
to camp with him and rode his horse, a large, spirited animal. It was the horse's first experience
with a side saddle, and at first he objected to the habit and jumped around and snorted quite
a little, but he soon saw that I was really not a dangerous person and quieted down.

As Lieutenant Isham and I were cantering along at a nice brisk gait we met Faye, who was returning
from the camp on Powder-Face, and it could be plainly seen that he disapproved of my mount.
But he would not turn back with us, however, and we went on to camp without him. There is something
very fascinating about a military camp--it is always so precise and trim--the little tents
for the men pitched in long straight lines, each one looking as though it had been given especial
attention, and with all things is the same military precision and neatness. It was afternoon
stables and we rode around to the picket lines to watch the horses getting their grooming.

When I got home Faye was quick to tell me that I would certainly be killed if I continued to
ride every untrained horse that came along! Not a very pleasant prospect for me; but I told
him that I did not want to mortify him and myself, too, by refusing to mount horses that his
own classmates, particularly those in the cavalry, asked me to ride, and that I knew very well
he would much prefer to see me on a spirited animal than a "gentle ladies' horse" that any
inexperienced rider could manage. So we decided that the horse, after all, was not a vicious
beast, and I am to ride him again to-morrow.

Last evening we gave a delightful little dance in the hall in honor of the officers and their
wives who are to go, and the officers who have come. We all wore our most becoming gowns, and
anyone unacquainted with army life on the frontier would have been surprised to see what handsome
dresses can be brought forth, even at this far-away post, when occasion demands. There are
two very pretty girls from the East visiting in the garrison, and several of the wives of officers
are young and attractive, and the mingling of the pretty faces and bright-colored dresses with
the dark blue and gold of the uniforms made a beautiful scene. It is not in the least surprising
that girls become so silly over brass buttons. Even the wives get silly over them sometimes!

CAMP SUPPLY, INDIAN TERRITORY, April, 1873.

IN the last mail Faye heard from his application for transfer to another company, and the order
will be issued as soon as the lieutenant in that company has been promoted, which will be in
a few weeks. This will take us back to Fort Lyon with old friends, and Faye to a company whose
captain is a gentleman. He was one of Faye's instructors at West Point.

I have a new horse--and a lively one, too--so lively that I have not ridden him yet. He was
a present from Lieutenant Isham, and the way in which he happened to possess him makes a pretty
little story. The troop had been sent out on a scout, and was on its way back to the post to
be paid, when one evening this pony trotted into camp and at once tried to be friendly with
the cavalry horses, but the poor thing was so frightfully hideous with its painted coat the
horses would not permit him to come near them for some time. But the men caught him and brought
him on to the stables, where there was trouble at once, for almost every man in the troop claimed
ownership. So it was finally decided by the captain that as soon as the troop had been paid
the horse should be raffled, that each man in that one troop could have the privilege of buying
a chance at one dollar, and that the money should go in the troop fund. This arrangement delighted
the men, as it promised something new in the way of a frolic.

In due time the paymaster arrived, the men were paid, and then in a few minutes there was brisk
business going on over at the quarters of the troop! Every enlisted man in the troop--sergeants,
corporals, and privates, eighty-four in all--bought a chance, thus making a fine sum for the
fund. A private won the horse, of whom Lieutenant Isham immediately bought him and presented
him to me.

He is about fifteen hands high and not in the least of a pony build, but is remarkably slender,
with fine head and large intelligent eyes. Just what his color is we do not know, for he is
stained in red-brown stripes all over his body, around his legs, and on his face, but we think
he is a light gray. When he wandered to camp, a small bell was tied around his neck with a
piece of red flannel, and this, with his having been so carefully stained, indicates almost
conclusively that he was a pet. Some of the soldiers insist that he was a race pony, because
he is not only very swift, but has been taught to take three tremendous jumps at the very beginning
of his run, which gives him an immense advantage, but which his rider may sometimes fail to
appreciate. These jumps are often taught the Indian race ponies. The horse is gentle with Faye
and is certainly graceful, but he is hard to hold and inclined to bolt, so I will not try him
until he becomes more civilized.

The Indians are very bold again. A few days ago Lieutenant Golden was in to luncheon, and while
we were at the table we saw several Kiowas rush across the creek and stampede five or six horses
that belonged to our milkman, who has a ranch just outside the garrison. In a few minutes an
orderly appeared with an order for Lieutenant Golden and ten men to go after them without delay,
and bring the horses back.

Of course he started at once, and chased those Indians all the afternoon, and got so close
to them once or twice that they saw the necessity of lightening the weight on their tired ponies,
and threw off their old saddles and all sorts of things, even little bags of shot, but all
the time they held on to their guns and managed to keep the stolen horses ahead of them. They
had extra ponies, too, that they swung themselves over on when the ridden beasts began to lag
a little. When night came on Lieutenant Golden was compelled to give up the chase, and had
to return to the post without having recovered one of the stolen horses.

One never knows here what dreadful things may come up any moment. Everything was quiet and
peaceful when we sat down to luncheon, yet in less than ten minutes we saw the rush of the
Indians and the stampede of the milkman's horses right from our dining-room window. The horses
were close to the post too. Splendid cavalry horses were sent after them, but it requires a
very swift horse to overtake those tough little Indian ponies at any time, and the Kiowas probably
were on their best ponies when they stampeded the horses, for they knew, undoubtedly, that
cavalry would soon be after them.

DODGE CITY, KANSAS, June, 1873.

WE reached this place yesterday, expecting to take the cars this morning for Granada, but the
servant who was to have come from Kansas City on that train will not be here until to-morrow.
When the time came to say good-by, I was sorry to leave a number of the friends at Camp Supply,
particularly Mrs. Hunt, with whom we stayed the last few days, while we were packing. Everyone
was at the ambulance to see us off--except the Phillips family.

We were three days coming up, because of one or two delays the very first day. One of the wagons
broke down soon after we left the post, and an hour or so was lost in repairing it, and at
Buffalo Creek we were delayed a long time by an enormous herd of buffalo. It was a sight that
probably we will never see again. The valley was almost black with the big animals, and there
must have been hundreds and hundreds of them on either side of the road. They seemed very restless,
and were constantly moving about instead of grazing upon the buffalo grass, which is unusually
fine along that valley, and this made us suspect that they had been chased and hunted until
the small bands had been driven together into one big herd. Possibly the hunters had done this
themselves, so the slaughter could be the greater and the easier. It is remarkable that such
grand-looking beasts should have so little sense as to invariably cross the road right in front
of moving teams, and fairly challenge one to make targets of them. It was this crossing of
large numbers that detained us so long yesterday.

When we got out about fifteen miles on the road, an Apache Indian appeared, and so suddenly
that it seemed as if he must have sprung up from the ground. He was in full war dress--that
is, no dress at all except the breech clout and moccasins--and his face and whole naked body
were stained in many colors in the most hideous manner. In his scalp lock was fastened a number
of eagle feathers, and of course he wore two or three necklaces of beads and wampum. There
was nothing unusual about the pony he was riding, except that it was larger and in better condition
than the average Indian horse, but the one he was leading--undoubtedly his war horse--was a
most beautiful animal, one of the most beautiful I ever saw.

The Apache evidently appreciated the horse, for he had stained only his face, but this had
been made quite as frightful as that of the Indian. The pony was of a bright cream color, slender,
and with a perfect head and small ears, and one could see that he was quick and agile in every
movement. He was well groomed, too. The long, heavy mane had been parted from ears to withers,
and then twisted and roped on either side with strips of some red stuff that ended in long
streamers, which were blown out in a most fantastic way when the pony was running. The long
tail was roped only enough to fasten at the top a number of strips of the red that hung almost
to the ground over the hair. Imagine all this savage hideousness rushing upon you--on a yellow
horse with a mane of waving red! His very presence on an ordinary trotting pony was enough
to freeze the blood in one's veins.

That he was a spy was plainly to be seen, and we knew also that his band was probably not far
away. He seemed in very good spirits, asked for "tobac," and rode along with us some distance--long
enough to make a careful estimate of our value and our strength. Finally he left us and disappeared
over the hills. Then the little escort of ten men received orders from Faye to be on the alert,
and hold themselves and their rifles ready for a sudden attack.

We rode on and on, hoping to reach the Cimarron Redoubt before dark, but that had to be given
up and camp was made at Snake Creek, ten miles the other side. Not one Indian had been seen
on the road except the Apache, and this made us all the more uncomfortable. Snake Creek was
where the two couriers were shot by Indians last summer, and that did not add to our feelings
of security--at least not mine. We were in a little coulee, too, where it would have been an
easy matter for Indians to have sneaked upon us. No one in the camp slept much that night,
and most of the men were walking post to guard the animals. And those mules! I never heard
mules, and horses also, sneeze and cough and make so much unnecessary noise as those animals
made that night. And Hal acted like a crazy dog--barking and growling and rushing out of the
tent every two minutes, terrifying me each time with the fear that he might have heard the
stealthy step of a murderous savage.

Everyone lived through the night, however, but we were all glad to make an early start, so
before daylight we were on the road. The old sergeant agreed with Faye in thinking that we
were in a trap at the camp, and should move on early. We did not stop at the Redoubt, but I
saw as we passed that the red curtains were still at the little window.

It seems that we are not much more safe in this place than we were in camp in an Indian country.
The town is dreadful and has the reputation of being one of the very worst in the West since
the railroad has been built. They say that gamblers and all sorts of "toughs" follow a new
road. After breakfast this morning we started for a walk to give Hal a little run, but when
we got to the office the hotel proprietor told us that the dog must be led, otherwise he would
undoubtedly be stolen right before our eyes. Faye said: "No one would dare do such a thing;
I would have him arrested." But the man said there was no one here who would make the arrest,
as there certainly would be two or more revolvers to argue with first, and in any case the
dog would be lost to us, for if the thief saw that he could not hold him the dog would undoubtedly
be shot. Just imagine such a thing! So Hal was led by his chain, but he looked so abused and
miserable, and I was so frightened and nervous, our outing was short, and here we are shut
up in our little room.

We can see the car track from the window, and I wonder how it will seem to go over in a car,
the country that we came across in wagons only one year ago. From Granada we will go to the
post in an ambulance, a distance of forty or more miles. But a ride of fifty miles over these
plains has no terrors for me now. The horses, furniture, and other things went on in a box
car this morning. It is very annoying to be detained here so long, and I am a little worried
about that girl. The telegram says she was too sick to start yesterday.

FORT LYON, COLORADO TERRITORY, June, 1873.

IT has been impossible for me to write before, for I have been more than busy, both day and
night, ever since we got here. The servant for whom we waited at Dodge City, and who I had
hoped would be a great assistance to me in getting settled, came to us very ill--almost too
ill to be brought over from Granada. But we could not leave her there with no one to take care
of her, and of course I could not remain with her, so there was nothing else to be done--we
had to bring her along. We had accepted Mrs. Wilder's invitation to stay with them a few days
until we could get settled a little, but all that was changed when we got here, for we were
obliged to come directly to our own house, unpack camp bedding and the mess chest, and do the
best we could for ourselves and the sick girl.

The post surgeon told us as soon as he had examined the girl that she had tuberculosis in almost
its last stage, and that she was threatened with double pneumonia! So you can imagine what
I have been through in the way of nursing, for there was no one in the garrison who would come
to assist me. The most unpleasant part of it all is, the girl is most ungrateful for all that
is being done for her, and finds fault with many things. She has admitted to the doctor that
she came to us for her health; that as there are only two in the family, she thought there
would be so little for her to do she could ride horseback and be out of doors most of the time!
What a nice arrangement it would have been--this fine lady sitting out on our lawn or riding
one of our horses, and I in the kitchen preparing the dinner, and then at the end of the month
humbly begging her to accept a little check for thirty dollars!

We have an excellent soldier cook, but the care of that miserable girl falls upon me, and the
terrible experience we passed through at Dodge City has wholly unfitted me for anything of
the kind. The second night we were there, about one o'clock, we were awakened by loud talking
and sounds of people running; then shots were fired very near, and instantly there were screams
of agony, "I'm shot! I'm shot!" from some person who was apparently coming across the street,
and who fell directly underneath our window. We were in a little room on the second floor,
and its one window was raised far up, which made it possible for us to hear the slightest sound
or movement outside.

The shooting was kept up until after the man was dead, many of the bullets hitting the side
of the hotel. It was simply maddening to have to stay in that room and be compelled to listen
to the moans and death gurgle of that murdered man, and hear him cry, "Oh, my lassie, my poor
lassie!" as he did over and over again, until he could no longer speak. It seemed as though
every time he tried to say one word, there was the report of a pistol. After he was really
dead we could hear the fiends running off, and then other people came and carried the body away.

The shooting altogether did not last longer than five or ten minutes, and at almost the first
shot we could hear calls all over the wretched little town of "Vigilante! Vigilante!" and knew
that the vigilantes were gathering, but before they could get together the murderous work had
been finished. All the time there had been perfect silence throughout the hotel. The proprietor
told us that he got up, but that it would have been certain death if he or anyone else had
opened a door.

Hal was on the floor in a corner of our room, and began to growl after the very first scream,
and I was terrified all the time for fear he would go to the open window and attract the attention
of those murderers below, who would undoubtedly have commenced firing at the window and perhaps
have killed all of us. But the moans of the dying man frightened the dog awfully, and he crawled
under the bed, where he stayed during the rest of the horrible night. The cause of all the
trouble seems to have been that a colored man undertook to carry in his wagon three or four
men from Dodge City to Fort Dodge, a distance of five miles, but when he got out on the road
a short distance he came to the conclusion, from their talk, that they were going to the post
for evil purposes, and telling them that he would take them no farther, he turned his team
around to come back home. On the way back the men must have threatened him, for when he got
in town he drove to the house of some colored people who live on a corner across from the hotel
and implored them to let him in, but they were afraid and refused to open the door, for by
that time the men were shooting at him.

The poor man ran across the street, leaving a trail of blood that streamed from his wounds,
and was brutally killed under our window. Early the next morning, when we crossed the street
to go to the cars, the darky's mule was lying on the ground, dead, near the corner of the hotel,
and stuck on one long ear was the murdered man's hat. Soon after we reached Granada a telegram
was received giving an account of the affair, and saying also that in less than one half hour
after the train had passed through, Dodge City was surrounded by troops of United States cavalry
from Fort Dodge, that the entire town was searched for the murderers, but that not even a trace
of one had been discovered.

When I got inside a car the morning after that awful, awful night, it was with a feeling that
I was leaving behind me all such things and that by evening I would be back once more at our
old army home and away from hostile Indians, and hostile desperadoes too. But when I saw that
servant girl with the pale, emaciated face and flushed cheeks, so ill she could barely sit
up, my heart went down like lead and Indians seemed small trials in comparison to what I saw
ahead of me.

Well, she will go in a few days, and then I can give the house some attention. The new furniture
and china are all here, but nothing has been done in the way of getting settled. The whole
coming back has been cruelly disappointing, and I am so tired and nervous I am afraid of my
own shadow. So after a while I think I will go East for a few weeks, which I know you will
be glad to hear.

FORT LYON, COLORADO TERRITORY, August, 1873.

WE have just come in from a drive to the Purgatoire with Colonel Knight behind his handsome
horses. It makes me sad, always, to go over that familiar road and to scenes that are so closely
associated with my learning to ride and shoot when we were here before. The small tree that
was my target is dead but still standing, and on it are several little pieces of the white
paper bull's eyes that Faye and Lieutenant Baldwin tacked on it for me.

We often see poor Tom. The post trader bought him after Lieutenant Baldwin's death, so the
dear horse would always have good care and not be made to bring and carry for a cruel master.
He wanders about as he chooses and is fat, but the coat that was once so silky and glossy is
now dull and faded, and the horse looks spiritless and dejected. Poor Tom! The greyhound, Magic,
still remembers their many, many hunts together when the horse would try to outrun the dog,
and the hound often goes out to make him little visits, and the sight is pathetic. That big
dog of the chaplain's is still here, and how the good man can conscientiously have him about,
I cannot understand.

Colonel Knight has two large dogs also, but they are shut in the stable most of the time to
guard his pair of valuable horses. The horses are not particularly fast or spirited, but they
are very beautiful and perfectly matched in color and gait.

Ever since Hal has been old enough to run with a horse, he has always gone with me riding or
driving. So the first time we drove with Colonel Knight I called Hal to go with us and he ran
out of the house and over the fence with long joyful bounds, to be instantly pounced upon,
and rolled over into the acequia by the two big dogs of Colonel Knight's that I had not even
heard of! Hal has splendid fighting blood and has never shown cowardice, but he is still a
young dog and inexperienced, and no match for even one old fighter, and to have two notoriously
savage, bloodthirsty beasts gnawing at him as though he was a bone was terrible. But Hal apparently
never thought of running from them, and after the one howl of surprise gave his share of vicious
growls and snaps. But the old dogs were protected by their heavy hair, while Hal's short coat
and fine skin were easily torn.

We all rushed to his rescue, for it looked as though he would be torn in pieces, and when I
saw a long cut in his tender skin I was frantic. But finally the two black dogs were pulled
off and Hal was dragged out of the ditch and back to the house, holding back and growling all
the time, which showed plainly he was not satisfied with the way the affair had ended. The
drive that day I did not enjoy!

Hal was not torn so deeply as to have unsightly scars, for which I was thankful. From that
day on, however, he not only hated those dogs, but disliked the man who cares for them, and
seemed to consider him responsible for their very existence. And it was wonderful that he should
recognize Cressy's step on the ground as he passed at the side of our house. Several times
when he would be stretched out on the floor, to all appearances fast asleep, I have seen him
open his eyes wide and growl when the man and dogs were passing, although it was perfectly
impossible for him to have seen them.

One morning about ten days ago when I was on the second floor, I heard an awful noise downstairs--whines,
growls, and howls all so mingled together one would have thought there were a dozen dogs in
the house. I ran down to see what could possibly be the matter, and found Hal at a window in
the dining room that looked out on the back yard, every hair on his brindled back standing
straight up and each white tooth showing. Looking out I saw that Turk, the more savage of the
two black dogs, was in the yard and could not get out over the high board fence. Cressy was
probably on guard that day, and sentry over the prisoners who had brought water. The dog must
have followed him in and then managed to get left.

Hal looked up at me, and for one instant kept perfectly still, waiting to see what I would
do. His big brown eyes were almost human in their beseeching, and plainly said, "You cannot
have forgotten--you will surely let me out!" And let him out I did. I opened the doors leading
to the yard, and almost pushing me over he rushed to the black dog with great leaps and the
most blood-curdling growls, jumping straight over him, then around him, then over him again
and again, and so like a whirlwind, the poor black beast was soon crazy, for snap as fast as
he might, it was ever at the clear, beautiful air. Hal was always just out of reach.

After he had worried the dog all he wanted to Hal proceeded to business. With a greyhound trick,
he swung himself around with great force and knocked the big dog flat upon the ground, and
holding him down with his two paws he pulled out mouthful after mouthful of long hair, throwing
it out of his mouth right and left. If the dog attempted to raise his big head Hal was quick
to give a wicked snap that made the head fall down again. When I saw that Hal had actually
conquered the dog and had proved that he-was the splendid hound I had ever considered him to
be, I told West to go out at once and separate them. But for the very first time West was slow--he
went like a snail. It seemed that one of the dogs had snapped at his leg once, and I believe
he would have been delighted if Hal had gnawed the dog flesh and bone. He pulled Hal in by
his collar and opened the gate for Turk, and soon things were quite once more.

All that day Hal's eyes were like stars, and one could almost see a grin on his mouth. He was
ever on the alert, and would frequently look out on the yard, wag his tail and growl. The strangest
thing about it all is, that not once since that morning has he paid the slightest attention
to Cressy or the two dogs, except to growl a little when they have happened to meet. Turk must
have told his companion about the fight, for he, too, finds attractions in another direction
when he sees Hal coming.

Some of our friends have found pleasure in teasing me about my sporting taste, private arena,
and so on, but I do not mind so very much, since the fight brought about peace, and proved
that Hal has plenty of pluck. Those two Knight dogs are looked upon as savage wolves by every
mother in the garrison, and when it is known that they are out, mothers and nurses run to gather
in their small people.

Hal has developed a taste for hunting that has been giving trouble lately, when he has run
off with Magic and the other hounds. So now he is chained until after guard mounting, by which
time the pack has gone. The signal officer of the department was here the other day when Faye
and men from the company were out signaling, and after luncheon I told West to go out to him
on Powder-Face and lead King, so he could ride the horse in, instead of coming in the wagon
with the men. Late in the afternoon West came back and reported that he had been unable to
find Faye, and then with much hesitation and choking he told me that he had lost Hal!

He said that as they had gone up a little hill, they had surprised a small band of antelope
that were grazing rather near on the other side, and that the hound started after them like
a streak, pulling one down before they had crossed the lowland, and then, not being satisfied,
he had raced on again after the band that had disappeared over a hill farther on. That was
the last he saw of him. West said that he wanted to bring the dead antelope to the post, but
could not, as both horses objected to it.

My heart was almost broken over the loss of my dog, and I started for my own room to indulge
in a good cry when, as I passed the front door that was open, I happened to look out, and there,
squatted down on the walk to the gate was Hal! I ran out to pet him, but drew back in horror
when I saw the condition he was in. His long nose and all of his white chest were covered with
a thick coating of coarse antelope hair plastered in with dried blood. The dog seemed too tired
to move, and sat there with a listless, far-away look that made me wish he could tell all about
his hunt, and if he had lost the second poor little antelope. West almost danced from joy when
he saw him, and lost no time in giving him a bath and putting him in his warm bed. Greyhounds
are often great martyrs to rheumatism, and Deacon, one of the pack, will sometimes howl from
pain after a hunt. And the howl of a greyhound is far-reaching and something to be remembered.

Very soon now I will be with you! Faye has decided to close the house and live with the bachelors
while I am away. This will be much more pleasant for him than staying here all alone.

FORT LYON, COLORADO TERRITORY, October, 1873.

THE trip out was tiresome and seemed endless, but nothing worth mentioning happened until I
got to Granada, where Faye met me with an ambulance and escort wagon. It was after two o'clock
in the morning when the train reached the station, and as it is the terminus of the road, every
passenger left the car. I waited a minute for Faye to come in, but as he did not I went out
also, feeling that something was wrong.

Just as I stepped off the car, Mr. Davis, quartermaster's clerk, appeared and took my satchel,
assuring me that Faye was right there waiting for me. This was so very unlike Faye's way of
doing things, that at once I suspected that the real truth was not being told. But I went with
him quickly through the little crowd, and on up the platform, and then I saw Faye. He was standing
at one corner of the building--all alone, and I recognized him instantly by the long light-blue
overcoat and big campaign hat with brim turned up.

And I saw also, standing on the corner of the platform in front of him, a soldier with rifle
in hand, and on the end of it glistening in the moonlight was a long bayonet! I had lived with
troops long enough to know that the bayonet would not be there unless the soldier was a sentry
guarding somebody or something. I naturally turned toward Faye, but was held back by Mr. Davis,
and that made me indignant, but Faye at once said quietly and in a voice just loud enough for
me to hear, "Get in the ambulance and ask no questions!" And still he did not move from the
corner. By this time I was terribly frightened and more and more puzzled. Drawn up close to
the farther side of the platform was an ambulance, also an escort wagon, in which sat several
soldiers, and handing my trunk checks to Mr. Davis, I got, into the ambulance, my teeth chattering
as though I had a chill.

The very instant the trunks were loaded Faye and the sentry came, and after ordering the corporal
to keep his wagon and escort close to us, and telling me to drop down in the bottom of the
ambulance if I heard a shot, Faye got on the ambulance also, but in front with the driver.
Leaning forward, I saw that one revolver was in his hand and the other on the seat by his side.
In this way, and in perfect silence, we rode through the town and until we were well out on
the open plain, when we stopped just long enough for Faye to get inside, and a soldier from
the wagon to take his seat by the driver.

Then Faye told me of what had occurred to make necessary all these precautions. He had come
over from Fort Lyon the day before, and had been with Major Carroll, the depot quartermaster,
during the afternoon and evening. The men had established a little camp just at the edge of
the miserable town where the mules could be guarded and cared for.

About nine o'clock Faye and Mr. Davis started out for a walk, but before they had gone far
Faye remembered that he had left his pistols and cartridge belt on a desk in the quartermaster's
office, and fearing they might be stolen they went back for them. He put the pistols on underneath
his heavy overcoat, as the belt was quite too short to fasten outside.

Well, he and Mr. Davis walked along slowly in the bright moonlight past the many saloons and
gambling places, never once thinking of danger, when suddenly from a dark passageway a voice
said, "You are the man I want," and bang! went a pistol shot close to Faye's head--so close,
in fact, that as he ducked his head down, when he saw the pistol pointed at him, the rammer
slot struck his temple and cut a deep hole that at once bled profusely. Before Faye could get
out one of his own pistols from underneath the long overcoat, another shot was fired, and then
away skipped Mr. Davis, leaving Faye standing alone in the brilliant moonlight. As soon as
Faye commenced to shoot, his would-be assassin came out from the dark doorway and went slowly
along the walk, taking good care, however, to keep himself well in the shadow of the buildings.

They went on down the street shooting back and forth at each other, Faye wondering all the
time why he could not hit the man. Once he got him in front of a restaurant window where there
was a bright light back of him, and, taking careful aim, he thought the affair could be ended
right there, but the ball whizzed past the man and went crashing through the window and along
the tables, sending broken china right and left. Finally their pistols were empty, and Faye
drew out a second, at the sight of which the man started to run and disappeared in the shadows.

As soon as the shooting ceased men came out from all sorts of places, and there was soon a
little crowd around Faye, asking many questions, but he and Major Carroll went to a drug store,
where his wounds could be dressed. For some time it was thought there must be a ball in the
deep hole in his temple. When Faye had time to think he understood why he had done such poor
shooting. He is an almost sure shot, but always holds his pistol in his left hand, and of course
aims with his left eye. But that night his left eye was filled with blood the very first thing
from the wound in his left temple, which forced him unconsciously to aim with his right eye,
which accounts for the wild shots.

The soldiers heard of the affair in camp, and several came up on a run and stood guard at the
drug store. A rumor soon got around that Oliver had gone off to gather some of his friends,
and they would soon be at the store to finish the work. Very soon, however, a strange man came
in, much excited, and said, "Lieutenant! Oliver's pals are getting ready to attack you at the
depot as the train comes in," and out he went. The train was due at two o'clock A. M., and
this caused Faye four hours of anxiety. He learned that the man who shot at him was "Billy
Oliver," a horse thief and desperado of the worst type, and that he was the leader of a band
of horse thieves that was then in town. To be threatened by men like those was bad enough in
itself, but Faye knew that I would arrive on that train. That was the cause of so much caution
when the train came in. There were several rough-looking men at the station, but if they had
intended mischief, the long infantry rifles in the hands of drilled soldiers probably persuaded
them to attend to their own affairs. A man told the corporal, however, that Oliver's friends
had decided not to kill Faye at the station, but had gone out on horseback to meet him on the
road. This was certainly misery prolonged.

The mules were driven through the town at an ordinary gait, but when we got on the plain they
were put at a run, and for miles we came at that pace. The little black shaved-tails pulled
the ambulance, and I think that for once they had enough run. The moonlight was wonderfully
bright, and for a long distance objects could be seen, and bunches of sage bush and Spanish
bayonet took the forms of horsemen, and naturally I saw danger in every little thing we passed.

One thing occurred that night that deserves mentioning. Some one told the soldiers that Oliver
was hidden in a certain house, and one of them, a private, started off without leave, and all
alone for that house. When he got there the entire building was dark, not a light in it, except
that of the moon which streamed in through two small windows. But the gritty soldier went boldly
in and searched every little room and every little corner, even the cellar, but not a living
thing was found. It may have been brave, but it was a dreadful thing for the trooper to do,
for he so easily could have been murdered in the darkness, and Faye and the soldiers never
have known what had become of him. Colonel Bissell declares that the man shall be made a corporal
upon the first vacancy.

The man Oliver was in the jail at Las Animas last summer for stealing horses. The old jail
was very shaky, and while it was being made more secure, he and another man--a wife murderer--were
brought to the guardhouse at this post. They finally took them back, and Oliver promptly made
his escape, and the sheriff had actually been afraid to re-arrest him. We have all begged Faye
to get out a warrant for the man, but he says it would simply be a farce, that the sheriff
would pay no attention to it. The whole left side of Faye's face is badly swollen and very
painful, and the wound in his ankle compels him to use a cane. Just how the man managed to
shoot Faye in the ankle no one seems to understand.

Granada must be a terrible place! The very afternoon Faye was there a Mexican was murdered
in the main street, but not the slightest attention was paid to the shooting--everything went
right on as though it was an everyday occurrence. The few respectable people are afraid even
to try to keep order.

Dodge City used to be that way and there was a reign of terror in the town, until finally the
twelve organized vigilantes became desperate and took affairs in their own hands. They notified
six of the leading desperadoes that they must be out of the place by a certain day and hour.
Four went, but two were defiant and remained. When the specified hour had passed, twelve double-barreled
shotguns were loaded with buckshot, and in a body the vigilantes hunted these men down as they
would mad dogs and riddled each one through and through with the big shot! It was an awful
thing to do, but it seems to have been absolutely necessary and the only way of establishing
law and order. Our friends at Fort Dodge tell us that the place is now quite decent, and that
a man can safely walk in the streets without pistols and a belt full of cartridges.

FORT LYON, COLORADO TERRITORY, October, 1873.

ONE naturally looks for all sorts of thrilling experiences when out on the frontier, but to
have men and things mix themselves up in a maddening way in one's very own house, as has recently
been done in mine, is something not usually counted upon. To begin with, Mrs. Rae is with us,
and her coming was not only most unlocked for up to two days ago, but through a wretched mistake
in a telegram she got here just twenty-four hours before we thought she would arrive. Ordinarily
this would have been a delightful surprise, but, unfortunately, things had begun to "mix!"

Faye had suffered so much from the wound in his head that very little attention had been given
the house since my return from the East, therefore it was not in the very best of order. It
was closed during my two months' absence, as Faye had lived down with the bachelors. The very
day that Mrs. Rae came the quartermaster had sent a man to repair one of the chimneys, and
plaster and dirt had been left in my room, the one I had intended Mrs. Rae to occupy. And then,
to make matters just as bad as possible, there was a sand storm late in the afternoon that
had, of course, sifted dust over all things.

But this was not all! My nerves had not recovered from the shock at Granada, and had given
out entirely that day just before dinner, and had sent me to bed with an uncomfortable chill.
Still, I was not disheartened. Before I went East many things had been put away, but West had
unpacked and polished the silver several days before, and the glass was shining and the china
closets in perfect order, all of which had been attended to with my own hands. Besides, the
wife of one of the sergeants was to come the next morning to dust and clean the little house
from top to bottom, so there was really nothing to worry about, as everything would be in order
long before time for the stage to arrive that would bring Mrs. Rae.

But after the chill came a fever, and with the fever came dreams, most disturbing dreams, in
which were sounds of crunching gravel, then far-away voices--voices that I seemed to have heard
in another world. A door was opened, and then--oh! how can I ever tell you--in the hall came
Faye's mother! By that time dreams had ceased, and it was cruel reality that had to be faced,
and even now I wonder how I lived through the misery of that moment--the longing to throw myself
out of the window, jump in the river, do anything, in fact, but face the mortification of having
her see the awful condition of her son's house!

Her son's house--that was just it. I did not care at all for myself, my only thought was for
Faye whose mother might find cause to pity him for the delinquencies of his wife! First impressions
are indelible, and it would be difficult to convince Mrs. Rae ever that the house was not always
dusty and untidy. How could she know that with pride I had ever seen that our house, however
rough it might have been, was clean and cheerful. And of what use would it be to arrange things
attractively now? She would be justified in supposing that it was only in its company dress.

I was weak and dizzy from fever and a sick heart, but I managed to get dressed and go down
to do the best I could. West prepared a little supper, and we made things as comfortable as
possible, considering the state of affairs. Mrs. Rae was most lovely about everything--said
she understood it all. But that could not be, not until she had seen one of our sand storms,
from the dust of which it is impossible to protect a thing. I have been wishing for a storm
ever since, so Mrs. Rae could see that I was not responsible for the condition of things that
night.

Now this was not all--far, far from it. On the way out in the cars, Mrs. Rae met the colonel
of the regiment--a real colonel, who is called a colonel, too--who was also on his way to this
post, and with him was Lieutenant Whittemore, a classmate of Faye's. Colonel Fitz-James was
very courteous to Mrs. Rae, and when they reached Kit Carson he insisted upon her coming over
with him in the ambulance that had been sent to meet him. This was very much more comfortable
than riding in the old stage, so she gladly accepted, and to show her appreciation of the kindness,
she invited the colonel, also Lieutenant Whittemore, to dine with us the following evening!

Yes, there is still more, for it so happens that Colonel Fitz-James is known to be an epicure,
to be fussy and finical about all things pertaining to the table, and what is worse takes no
pains to disguise it, and in consequence is considered an undesirable dinner guest by the most
experienced housekeepers in the regiment. All this I had often heard, and recalled every word
during the long hours of that night as I was making plans for the coming day. The combination
in its entirety could not have been more formidable. There was Faye's mother, a splendid housekeeper--her
very first day in our house. His colonel and an abnormally sensitive palate--his very first
meeting with each of us. His classmate, a young man of much wealth--a perfect stranger to me.
A soldier cook, willing, and a very good waiter, but only a plain everyday cook; certainly
not a maker of dainty dishes for a dinner party. And my own experiences in housekeeping had
been limited to log huts in outlandish places.

Every little thing for that dinner had to be prepared in our own house. There was no obliging
caterer around the corner where a salad, an ice, and other things could be hurriedly ordered;
not even one little market to go to for fish, flesh, or fowl; only the sutler's store, where
their greatest dainty is "cove" oysters! Fortunately there were some young grouse in the house
which I had saved for Mrs. Rae and which were just right for the table, and those West could
cook perfectly.

So with a head buzzing from quinine I went down in the morning, and with stubborn determination
that the dinner should be a success, I proceeded to carry out the plans I had decided upon
during the night.

The house was put in splendid order and the dinner prepared, and Colonel Knight was invited
to join us. I attempted only the dishes that could be served well--nothing fancy or difficult--and
the sergeant's wife remained to assist West in the kitchen. It all passed off pleasantly and
most satisfactorily, and Colonel Fitz-James could not have been more agreeable, although he
looked long and sharply at the soldier when he first appeared in the dining room. But he said
not a word; perhaps he concluded it must be soldier or no dinner. I have been told several
nice things he said about that distracting dinner before leaving the garrison. But it all matters
little to me now, since it was not found necessary to take me to a lunatic asylum!

Mrs. Rae saw in a paper that Faye had been shot by a desperado, and was naturally much alarmed,
so she sent a telegram to learn what had happened, and in reply Faye telegraphed for her to
come out, and fearing that he must be very ill she left Boston that very night. But we understood
that she would start the next day, and this misinterpretation caused my undoing--that and the
sand storm.

That man Oliver has at last been arrested and is now in the jail at Las Animas, chained with
another man--a murderer--to a post in the dark cellar. This is because he has so many times
threatened the jailer. He says that some day he will get out, and then his first act will be
to kill the keeper, and the next to kill Lieutenant Rae. He also declares that Faye kicked
him when he was in the guardhouse at the post. Of course anyone with a knowledge of military
discipline would know this assertion to be false, for if Faye had done such a thing as that,
he might have been court-martialed.

The sheriff was actually afraid to make the arrest the first time he went over, because so
many of Oliver's friends were in town, and so he came back without him, although he saw him
several times. The second trip, however, Oliver was taken off guard and was handcuffed and
out of the town before he had a chance to rally his friends to his assistance. He was brought
to Las Animas during the night to avoid any possibility of a lynching. The residents of the
little town are full of indignation that the man should have attempted to kill an officer of
this garrison. He is a horse thief and desperado, and made his escape from their jail several
months back, so altogether they consider that the country can very well do without him. I think
so, too, and wish every hour in the day that the sheriff had been less cautious. Oliver cannot
be tried until next May, when the general court meets, and I am greatly distressed over this
fact, for the jail is old and most insecure, and he may get out at any time. The fear and dread
of him is on my mind day and night.

FORT LYON, COLORADO TERRITORY, December, 1873.

EVERYONE in the garrison seems to be more or less in a state of collapse! The bal masque is
over, the guests have departed, and all that is left to us now are the recollections of a delightful
party that gave full return for our efforts to have it a success.

We did not dream that so many invitations would be accepted at far-away posts, that parties
would come from Fort Leavenworth, Fort Riley, Fort Dodge, and Fort Wallace, for a long ambulance
ride was necessary from each place. But we knew of their coming in time to make preparations
for all, so there was no confusion or embarrassment. Every house on the officers' line was
filled to overflowing and scarcely a corner left vacant.

The new hospital was simply perfect for an elaborate entertainment. The large ward made a grand
ballroom, the corridors were charming for promenading, and, yes, flirting, the dining room
and kitchen perfect for the supper, and the office and other small rooms were a nice size for
cloak rooms. Of course each one of these rooms, big and small, had to be furnished. In each
dressing room was a toilet table fitted out with every little article that might possibly be
needed during the evening, both before and after the removal of masks. All this necessitated
much planning, an immense amount of work, and the stripping of our own houses. But there were
a good many of us, and the soldiers were cheerful assistants. I was on the supper committee,
which really dwindled down to a committee of one at the very last, for I was left alone to
put the finishing touches to the tables and to attend to other things. The vain creatures seemed
more interested in their own toilets, and went home to beautify themselves.

The commanding officer kept one eye, and the quartermaster about a dozen eyes upon us while
we were decorating, to see that no injury was done to the new building. But that watchfulness
was unnecessary, for the many high windows made the fastening of flags an easy matter, as we
draped them from the casing of one window to the casing of the next, which covered much of
the cold, white walls and gave an air of warmth and cheeriness to the rooms. Accoutrements
were hung everywhere, every bit of brass shining as only an enlisted man can make it shine,
and the long infantry rifles with fixed bayonets were "stacked" whereever they would not interfere
with the dancing.

Much of the supper came from Kansas City--that is, the celery, fowls, and material for little
cakes, ices, and so on--and the orchestra consisted of six musicians from the regimental band
at Fort Riley. The floor of the ballroom was waxed perfectly, but it is hoped by some of us
that much of the lightning will be taken from it before the hospital cots and attendants are
moved in that ward.

Everybody was en masque and almost everyone wore fancy dress and some of the costumes were
beautiful. The most striking figure in the rooms, perhaps, was Lieutenant Alden, who represented
Death! He is very tall and very slender, and he had on a skintight suit of dark-brown drilling,
painted from crown to toe with thick white paint to represent the skeleton of a human being;
even the mask that covered the entire head was perfect as a skull. The illusion was a great
success, but it made one shiver to see the awful thing walking about, the grinning skull towering
over the heads of the tallest. And ever at its side was a red devil, also tall, and so thin
one wondered what held the bones together. This red thing had a long tail. The devil was Lieutenant
Perkins, of course.

Faye and Doctor Dent were dressed precisely alike, as sailors, the doctor even wearing a pair
of Faye's shoes. They had been very sly about the twin arrangement, which was really splendid,
for they are just about the same size and have hair very much the same color. But smart as
they were, I recognized Faye at once. The idea of anyone thinking I would not know him!

We had queens and milkmaids and flower girls galore, and black starry nights and silvery days,
and all sorts of things, many of them very elegant. My old yellow silk, the two black lace
flounces you gave me, and a real Spanish mantilla that Mrs. Rae happened to have with her,
made a handsome costume for me as a Spanish lady. I wore almost all the jewelry in the house;
every piece of my own small amount and much of Mrs. Rae's, the nicest of all having been a
pair of very large old-fashioned "hoop" earrings, set all around with brilliants. My comb was
a home product, very showy, but better left to the imagination.

The dancing commenced at nine o'clock, and at twelve supper was served, when we unmasked, and
after supper we danced again and kept on dancing until five o'clock! Even then a few of us
would have been willing to begin all over, for when again could we have such a ballroom with
perfect floor and such excellent music to dance by? But with the new day came a new light and
all was changed, much like the change of a ballet with a new calcium light, only ours was not
beautifying, but most trying to tired, painted faces; and seeing each other we decided that
we could not get home too fast. In a few days the hospital will be turned over to the post-surgeon,
and the beautiful ward will be filled with iron cots and sick soldiers, and instead of delicate
perfumes, the odor of nauseous drugs will pervade every place.

I have been too busy to ride during the past week, but am going out this afternoon with the
chaplain's young daughter, who is a fearless rider, although only fourteen. King is very handsome
now and his gait delightful, but he still requires most careful management. He ran away with
me the other day, starting with those three tremendous strides, but we were out on a level
and straight road, so nothing went wrong. All there was for me to do was to keep my seat. Lieutenant
Perkins and Miss Campbell were a mile or more ahead of us, and after he had passed them he
came down to a trot, evidently flattering himself that he had won a race, and that nothing
further was expected of him.

He jumps the cavalry hurdles beautifully--goes over like a deer, Hal always following directly
back of him. Whatever a horse does that dog wants to do also. Last spring, when we came up
from Camp Supply, he actually tried to eat the corn that dropped from King's mouth as he was
getting his supper one night in camp. He has scarcely noticed Powder-Face since the very day
King was sent to me, but became devoted to the new horse at once. I wonder if he could have
seen that the new horse was the faster of the two!

FORT LYON, COLORADO TERRITORY, May, 1874.

THERE is such good news to send you to-day I can hardly write it fast enough. The Territorial
Court has been in session, and yesterday that horse thief, Billy Oliver, was tried and sentenced
to ten years' imprisonment in the penitentiary! The sheriff and a posse started for Canon City
this morning with him and another prisoner, and I hope that he will not make his escape on
the way over. The sheriff told Faye confidentially the route he intended to take, which is
not at all the one he is supposed to be going over, and threw out strong hints to the effect
that if he wanted to put an end to the man's vicious career there would be no interference
from him (the sheriff) or his posse. He even told Faye of a lonesome spot where it could be
accomplished easily and safely!

This was a strange thing for a sheriff to do, even in this country of desperadoes, and shows
what a fiend he considers Oliver to be. He said that the man was the leader of a gang of the
lowest and boldest type of villains, and that even now it would be safer to have him out of
the way. Sheriffs are afraid of these men, and do not like to be obliged to arrest them.

The day of the trial, and as Faye was about to go to the court room, a corporal came to the
house and told him that he had just come from Las Animas, where he had heard from a reliable
source that many of Oliver's friends were in the town, and that it was their intention to kill
Faye as he came in the court room. He even described the man who was to do the dreadful work,
and he told Faye that if he went over without an escort he would certainly be killed.

This was simply maddening, and I begged Faye to ask for a guard, but he would not, insisting
that there was not the least danger, that even a desperado would not dare shoot an army officer
in Las Animas in a public place, for he knew he would be hung the next moment. That was all
very well, but it seemed to me that it would be better to guard against the murder itself rather
than think of what would be done to the murderer. I knew that the corporal would never have
come to the house if he had not heard much that was alarming.

So Faye went over without a guard, but did condescend to wear his revolvers. He says that the
first thing he saw as he entered the court room were six big, brawny cavalrymen, each one a
picked man, selected for bravery and determination. Of course each trooper was armed with large
government revolvers and a belt full of cartridges. He also saw that they were sitting near,
and where they could watch every move of a man who answered precisely to the corporal's description,
and as he passed on up through the crowd he almost touched him. His hair was long and hung
down on his shoulders about a face that was villainous, and he was "armed to the teeth." There
were other tough-looking men seated near this man, each one armed also.

Colonel Bissell had heard of the threat to kill Faye, and ordered a corporal, the very man
who searched so bravely through the dark house for Oliver at Granada, and five privates to
the court, with instructions to shoot at once the first and every man who made the slightest
move to harm Faye! Those men knew very well what the soldiers were there for, and I imagine
that after one look at their weather-beaten faces, which told of many an Indian campaign, the
villains decided that it would be better to keep quiet and let Oliver manage his own affairs.

A sergeant and one or two privates were summoned by Oliver to give testimony against Faye,
but each one told the same story, and said most emphatically that Faye had not done more than
speak to the man in the line of duty, and as any officer would have done. Directly after guard
mounting, and as the new guard marches up to the guardhouse, the old guard is ordered out,
also the prisoners, and the prisoners stand in the middle of the line with soldiers at each
end, and every man, enlisted man and prisoner, is required to stand up straight and in line.
It was at One of these times that Oliver claimed that Faye kicked him, when he was officer
of the day. Faye and Major Tilford say that the man was slouching, and Faye told him to stand
up and take his hands out of his pockets. A small thing to murder an officer for, but I imagine
that any sort of discipline to a man of his character was most distasteful.

Of course Faye left the court room as soon as his testimony had been given. When the sentence
was pronounced the judge requested all visitors to remain seated until after the prisoner had
been removed, which showed that he was a little afraid of trouble, and knew the bitter feeling
against the horse thief in the town. Several girls and young officers from the post were outside
in an ambulance, and they commenced to cheer when told of the sentence, but the judge hurried
a messenger out to them with a request that they make no demonstration whatever. He is a fearless
and just judge, and it is a wonder that desperadoes have not killed him long ago.

Perhaps now I can have a little rest from the terrible fear that has been ever with me day
and night during the whole winter, that Oliver would escape from the old jail and carry out
his threat of double murder. He had made his escape once, and I feared that he might get out
again. But that post and chain must have been very securely fixed down in that cellar.

FORT LYON, COLORADO TERRITORY, June, 1874.

BY this time you have my letter telling you that the regiment has been ordered to the Department
of the Gulf. Since then we have heard that it is to go directly to Holly Springs, Mississippi,
for the summer, where a large camp is to be established. Just imagine what the suffering will
be, to go from this dry climate to the humidity of the South, and from cool, thick-walled adobe
buildings to hot, glary tents in the midst of summer heat! We will reach Holly Springs about
the Fourth of July. Faye's allowance for baggage hardly carries more than trunks and a few
chests of house linen and silver, so we are taking very few things with us. It is better to
give them away than to pay for their transportation such a long distance.

Both horses have been sold and beautiful King has gone. The young man who bought him was a
stranger here, and knew absolutely nothing about the horse except what some one in Las Animas
had told him. He rode him around the yard only once, and then jumping down, pulled from his
pocket a fat roll of bills, counted off the amount for horse, saddle, and bridle, and then,
without saying one word more than a curt "good morning," he mounted the horse again and rode
out of the yard and away. I saw the whole transaction from a window--saw it as well as hot,
blinding tears would permit. Faye thinks the man might have been a fugitive and wanted a fast
horse to get him out of the country. We learned not long ago, you know, that King had been
an Indian race pony owned by a half-breed named Bent. He sent word from Camp Supply that I
was welcome to the horse if I could ride him! The chaplain has bought Powder-Face, and I am
to keep him as long as we are here. Hal will go with us, for I cannot give up that dog and
horses, too.

Speaking of Hal reminds me of the awful thing that occurred here a few days ago. I have written
often of the pack of beautiful greyhounds owned by the cavalry officers, and of the splendid
record of Magic--Hal's father--as a hunter, and how the dog was loved by Lieutenant Baldwin
next to his horse.

But unless the dogs were taken on frequent hunts, they would steal off on their own account
and often be away a whole day, perhaps until after dark. The other day they went off this way,
and in the afternoon, as Lieutenant Alden was riding along by the river, he came to a scene
that made him positively ill. On the ground close to the water was the carcass of a calf, which
had evidently been filled with poison for wolves, and near it on the bank lay Magic, Deacon,
Dixie, and other hounds, all dead or dying! Blue has bad teeth and was still gnawing at the
meat, and therefore had not been to the water, which causes almost instant death in cases of
poisoning by wolf meat.

As soon as Lieutenant Alden saw that the other dogs were past doing for, he hurried on to the
post with Blue, and with great difficulty saved her life. So Hal and his mother are sole survivors
of the greyhounds that have been known at many of the frontier posts as fearless and tireless
hunters, and plucky fighters when forced to fight. Greyhounds will rarely seek a fight, a trait
that sometimes fools other dogs and brings them to their Waterloo. When Lieutenant Alden told
me of the death of the dogs, tears came in his eyes as he said, "I have shared my bed with
old Magic many a time!" And how those dogs will be missed at the bachelor quarters! When we
came here last summer, I was afraid that the old hounds would pounce upon Hal, but instead
of that they were most friendly and seemed to know he was one of them--a wanderer returned.

ST. CHARLES HOTEL, NEW ORLEANS, LOUISIANA, September, 1877.

LIFE in the Army is certainly full of surprises! At Pass Christian yesterday morning, Faye
and I were sitting on the veranda reading the papers in an indifferent sort of way, when suddenly
Faye jumped up and said, "The Third has been ordered to Montana Territory!" At first I could
not believe him--it seemed so improbable that troops would be sent to such a cold climate at
this season of the year, and besides, most of the regiment is at Pittsburg just now because
of the great coal strike. But there in the Picayune was the little paragraph of half a dozen
lines that was to affect our lives for years to come, and which had the immediate power to
change our condition of indolent content, into one of the greatest activity and excitement!

Faye went at once to the telegraph office and by wire gave up the remainder of his leave, and
also asked the regimental adjutant if transportation was being provided for officers' families.
The distance is so great, and the Indians have been so hostile in Montana during the past two
years, that we thought families possibly would not be permitted to go.

After luncheon we packed the trunks, carefully separating things so there would be no necessity
for repacking if I could not go, and I can assure you that many an article was folded down
damp with hot tears--the very uncertainty was so trying. In the evening we went around to say
"good-by" to a few of the friends who have been so cordial and hospitable during the summer.
Early this morning we came from Pass Christian, and soon after we got here telegrams came for
Faye, one ordering him to proceed to Pittsburg and report for duty, and another saying that
officers' families may accompany the regiment. This was glorious news to me. The fear and dread
of having to be left behind had made me really ill--and what would have become of me if it
had actually come to pass I cannot imagine. I can go--that is all sufficient for the present,
and we expect to leave for Pittsburg this evening at nine o'clock.

The late start gives us a long day here with nothing to do. After a while, when it is not quite
so hot outside, we are going out to take a farewell look at some of our old haunts. Our friends
are all out of the city, and Jackson Barracks is too far away for such a warm day--besides,
there is no one there now that we know.

It seems quite natural to be in this dear old hotel, where all during the past winter our "Army
and Navy Club" cotillons were danced every two weeks. And they were such beautiful affairs,
with two splendid military orchestras to furnish the music, one for the dancing and one to
give choice selections in between the figures. We will carry with us to the snow and ice of
the Rocky Mountains many, many delightful memories of New Orleans, where the French element
gives a charm to everything. The Mardi-Gras parades, in which the regiment has each year taken
such a prominent part--the courtly Rex balls--the balls of Comus--the delightful Creole balls
in Grunewald Hall--the stately and exclusive balls of the Washington Artillery in their own
splendid hall--the charming dancing receptions on the ironclad monitor Canonicus, also the
war ship Plymouth, where we were almost afraid to step, things were so immaculate and shiny--and
then our own pretty army fetes at Jackson Barracks--regimental headquarters--each and all will
be remembered, ever with the keenest pleasure.

But the event in the South that has made the deepest impression of all occurred at Vicksburg,
where for three weeks we lived in the same house, en famille and intimately, with Jefferson
Davis! I consider that to have been a really wonderful experience. You probably can recall
a little of what I wrote you at the time--how we were boarding with his niece in her splendid
home when he came to visit her.

I remember so well the day he arrived. He knew, of course, that an army officer was in the
house, and Mrs. Porterfield had told us of his coming, so the meeting was not unexpected. Still,
when we went down to dinner that night I was almost shivering from nervousness, although the
air was excessively warm. I was so afraid of something unpleasant coming up, for although Mrs.
Porterfield and her daughter were women of culture and refinement, they were also rebels to
the very quick, and never failed at any time to remind one that their uncle was "President"
Davis! And then, as we went in the large dining room, Faye in his very bluest, shiniest uniform,
looked as if he might be Uncle Sam himself.

But there was nothing to fear--nothing whatever. A tall, thin old man came forward with Mrs.
Porterfield to meet us--a courtly gentleman of the old Southern school--who, apparently, had
never heard of the Civil War, and who, if he noticed the blue uniform at all, did not take
the slightest interest in what it represented. His composure was really disappointing! After
greeting me with grave dignity, he turned to Faye and grasped his hand firmly and cordially,
the whole expression of his face softening just a little. I have always thought that he was
deeply moved by once again seeing the Federal Blue under such friendly circumstances, and that
old memories came surging back, bringing with them the almost forgotten love and respect for
the Academy--a love that every graduate takes to his grave, whether his life be one of honor
or of disgrace.

One could very easily have become sentimental, and fancied that he was Old West Point, misled
and broken in spirit, admitting in dignified silence his defeat and disgrace to Young West
Point, who, with Uncle Sam's shoulder straps and brass buttons, could be generously oblivious
to the misguidance and treason of the other. We wondered many times if Jefferson Davis regretted
his life. He certainly could not have been satisfied with it.

There was more in that meeting than a stranger would have known of. In the splendid dining
room where we sat, which was forty feet in length and floored with tiles of Italian marble,
as was the entire large basement, it was impossible not to notice the unpainted casing of one
side of a window, and also the two immense patches of common gray plaster on the beautifully
frescoed walls, which covered holes made by a piece of shell that had crashed through the house
during the siege of Vicksburg. The shell itself had exploded outside near the servants' quarters.

Then, again, every warm evening after dinner, during the time he was at the house, Jefferson
Davis and Faye would sit out on the grand, marble porch and smoke and tell of little incidents
that had occurred at West Point when each had been a cadet there. At some of these times they
would almost touch what was left of a massive pillar at one end, that had also been shattered
and cracked by pieces of shell from U.S. gunboats, one piece being still imbedded in the white
marble.

For Jefferson Davis knew that Faye's father was an officer in the Navy, and that he had bravely
and boldly done his very best toward the undoing of the Confederacy; and by his never-failing,
polished courtesy to that father's son--even when sitting by pieces of shell and patched-up
walls--the President of the Confederacy set an example of dignified self-restraint, that many
a Southern man and woman--particularly woman--would do well to follow.

For in these days of reconstruction officers and their families are not always popular. But
at Pass Christian this summer we have received the most hospitable, thoughtful attention, and
never once by word or deed were we reminded that we were "Yank-Tanks," as was the case at Holly
Springs the first year we were there. However, we did some fine reconstruction business for
Uncle Sam right there with those pert Mississippi girls--two of whom were in a short time so
thoroughly reconstructed that they joined his forces "for better or for worse!"

The social life during the three years we have been in the South has most of the time been
charming, but the service for officers has often been most distasteful. Many times they have
been called upon to escort and protect carpetbag politicians of a very low type of manhood--men
who could never command one honest vote at their own homes in the North. Faye's company has
been moved twenty-one times since we came from Colorado three years ago, and almost every time
it was at the request of those unprincipled carpetbaggers. These moves did not always disturb
us, however, as during most of the time Faye has been adjutant general of the District of Baton
Rouge, and this kept us at Baton Rouge, but during the past winter we have been in New Orleans.

Several old Creole families whose acquaintance we made in the city last winter, have charming
old-style Southern homes at Pass Christian, where we have ever been cordially welcomed. It
was a common occurrence for me to chaperon their daughters to informal dances at the different
cottages along the beach, and on moonlight sailing parties on Mr. Payne's beautiful yacht,
and then, during the entire summer, from the time we first got there, I have been captain of
one side of a croquet team, Mr. Payne having been captain of the other. The croquet part was,
of course, the result of Major Borden's patient and exacting teaching at Baton Rouge.

Mentioning Baton Rouge reminds me of my dear dog that was there almost a year with the hospital
steward. He is now with the company at Mount Ver-non Barracks, Alabama, and Faye has telegraphed
the sergeant to see that he is taken to Pittsburg with the company.

We are going out now, first of all to Michaud's for some of his delicious biscuit glace! Our
city friends are all away still, so there will be nothing for us to do but wander around, pour
passer le temps until we go to the station.

MONONGAHELA HOUSE, PITTSBURG, PENNSYLVANIA, September, 1877.

ONCE again we have our trunks packed for the long trip to Montana, and this time I think we
will go, as the special train that is to take us is now at the station, and baggage of the
regiment is being hurriedly loaded. Word came this morning that the regiment would start to-night,
so it seems that at last General Sherman has gained his point. For three long weeks we have
been kept here in suspense--packing and then unpacking--one day we were to go, the next we
were not to go, while the commanding general and the division commander were playing "tug of
war" with us.

The trip will be long and very expensive, and we go from a hot climate to a cold one at a season
when the immediate purchase of warm clothing is imperative, and with all this unexpected expense
we have been forced to pay big hotel bills for weeks, just because of a disagreement between
two generals that should have been settled in one day. Money is very precious to the poor Army
at present, too, for not one dollar has been paid to officers or enlisted men for over three
months! How officers with large families can possibly manage this move I do not see--sell their
pay accounts I expect, and then be court martialed for having done so.

Congress failed to pass the army appropriation bill before it adjourned, consequently no money
can be paid to the Army until the next session! Yet the Army is expected to go along just the
same, promptly pay Uncle Sam himself all commissary and quartermaster bills at the end of each
month, and without one little grumble do his bidding, no matter what the extra expense may
be. I wonder what the wise men of Congress, who were too weary to take up the bill before going
to their comfortable homes--I wonder what they would do if the Army as a body would say, "We
are tired. Uncle, dear, and are going home for the summer to rest. You will have to get along
without us and manage the Indians and strikers the best way you can." This would be about as
sensible as forcing the Army to be paupers for months, and then ordering regiments from East
to West and South to North. Of course many families will be compelled to remain back, that
might otherwise have gone.

We are taking out a young colored man we brought up with us from Holly Springs. He has been
at the arsenal since we have been here, and Hal has been with him. It is over one year since
the dog saw me, and I am almost afraid he will not know me tonight at the station. Before we
left Pass Christian Faye telegraphed the sergeant to bring Hal with the company and purchase
necessary food for him on the way up. So, when the company got here, bills were presented by
several of the men, who claimed to have bought meat for the dog, the sum total of which was
nine dollars for the two days! We were so pleased to know that Hal had been so well cared for.
But the soldiers were welcome to the money and more with it, for we were so glad to have the
dog with us again, safe and well.

We have quite a Rae family now--Faye and I--a darky, a greyhound, and one small gray squirrel!
It will be a hard trip for Billie, but I have made for him a little ribbon collar and sewed
securely to it a long tape which makes a fine "picket rope" that can be tied to various things
in various places, and in this way he can be picketed and yet receive exercise and air.

We are to go almost straight north from the railroad for a distance of over four hundred miles,
and of course this will take several weeks under the most favorable conditions. But you must
not mind our going so far away--it will be no farther than the Indian Territory, and the climate
of Montana must be very much better than it was at Camp Supply, and the houses must certainly
be more comfortable, as the winters are so long and severe. I shall be so glad to have a home
of my own again, and have a horse to ride also.

Faye has just come from the station and says that almost everything has been loaded, and that
we are really to start to-night at eight o'clock. This is cheering news, for I think that everyone
is anxious to get to Montana, except the poor officers who cannot afford to take their families
with them.

CORINNE, UTAH TERRITORY, September, 1877.

WE were almost one week coming out, but finally got here yesterday morning. Our train was a
special, and having no schedule, we were often sidetracked for hours at a time, to make way
for the regular trains. As soon as possible after we arrived, the tents were unpacked and put
up, and it was amazing to see how soon there was order out of chaos. This morning the camp
looks like a little white city--streets and all. There is great activity everywhere, as preparations
have already commenced for the march north. Our camp "mess" has been started, and we will be
very comfortable, I think, with a good soldier cook and Cagey to take care of the tents. I
am making covers for the bed, trunk, and folding table, of dark-blue cretonne with white figures,
which carries out the color scheme of the folding chairs and will give a little air of cheeriness
to the tent, and of the same material I am making pockets that can be pinned on the side walls
of the tent, in which various things can be tucked at night. These covers and big pockets will
be folded and put in the roll of bedding every morning.

There are not enough ambulances to go around, so I had my choice between being crowded in with
other people, or going in a big army wagon by myself, and having had one experience in crowding,
I chose the wagon without hesitation. Faye is having the rear half padded with straw and canvas
on the sides and bottom, and the high top will be of canvas drawn over "bows," in true emigrant
fashion. Our tent will be folded to form a seat and placed in the back, upon which I can sit
and look out through the round opening and gossip with the mules that will be attached to the
wagon back of me. In the front half will be packed all of our camp furniture and things, the
knockdown bed, mess-chest, two little stoves (one for cooking), the bedding which will be tightly
rolled in canvas and strapped, and so on. Cagey will sit by the driver. There is not one spring
in the wagon, but even without, I will be more comfortable than with Mrs. Hayden and three
small children. They can have the ambulance to themselves perhaps, and will have all the room.
I thought of Billie, too. He can be picketed all the time in the wagon, but imagine the little
fellow's misery in an ambulance with three restless children for six or eight hours each day!

Hal is with us--in fact, I can hardly get away from the poor dog, he is so afraid of being
separated from me again. When we got to the station at Pittsburg he was there with Cagey, and
it took only one quick glance to see that he was a heart-broken, spirit-broken dog. Not one
spark was left of the fire that made the old Hal try to pull me through an immense plate-glass
mirror, in a hotel at Jackson, Mississippi, to fight his own reflection (the time the strange
man offered one hundred and fifty dollars for him), and certainly he was not the hound that
whipped the big bulldog at Monroe, Louisiana, two years ago. He did not see me as I came up
back of him, and as he had not even heard my voice for over one year, I was almost childishly
afraid to speak to him. But I finally said, "Hal, you have not forgotten your old friend?"
He turned instantly, but as I put my hand upon his head there was no joyous bound or lifting
of the ears and tail--just a look of recognition, then a raising up full length of the slender
body on his back legs, and putting a forefoot on each of my shoulders as far over as he could
reach, he gripped me tight, fairly digging his toe nails into me, and with his head pressed
close to my neck he held on and on, giving little low whines that were more like human sobs
than the cry of a dog. Of course I had my arms around him, and of course I cried, too. It was
so pitifully distressing, for it told how keenly the poor dumb beast had suffered during the
year he had been away from us. People stared, and soon there was a crowd about us with an abundance
of curiosity. Cagey explained the situation, and from then on to train time, Hal was patted
and petted and given dainties from lunch baskets.

He was in the car next to ours, coming out, and we saw him often. Many times there were long
runs across the plains, when the only thing to be seen, far or near, would be the huge tanks
containing water for the engines. At one of these places, while we were getting water. Cagey
happened to be asleep, and a recruit, thinking that Hal was ill-treated by being kept tied
all the time, unfastened the chain from his collar and led him from the car.

The first thing the dog saw was another dog, and alas! a greyhound belonging to Ryan, an old
soldier. The next thing he saw was the dear, old, beautiful plains, for which he had pined
so long and wearily. The two dogs had never seen each other before, but hounds are clannish
and never fail to recognize their own kind, so with one or two jumps by way of introduction,
the two were off and out of sight before anyone at the cars noticed what they were doing. I
was sitting by the window in our car and saw the dogs go over the rolling hill, and saw also
that a dozen or more soldiers were running after them. I told Faye what had happened, and he
started out and over the hill on a hard run. Time passed, and we in the cars watched, but neither
men nor dogs came back. Finally a long whistle was blown from the engine, and in a short time
the train began to move very slowly. The officers and men came running back, but the dogs were
not with them! My heart was almost broken; to leave my beautiful dog on the plains to starve
to death was maddening. I wanted to be alone, so to the dressing room I went, and with face
buried in a portiere was sobbing my very breath away when Mrs. Pierce, wife of Major Pierce,
came in and said so sweetly and sympathetically: "Don't cry, dear; Hal is following the car
and the conductor is going to stop the train."

Giving her a hasty embrace, I ran back to the end of the last car, and sure enough, there was
Hal, the old Hal, bounding along with tail high up and eyes sparkling, showing that the blood
of his ancestors was still in his veins. The conductor did not stop the train, simply because
the soldiers did not give him an opportunity. They turned the brakes and then held them, and
if a train man had interfered there would have been a fight right then and there.

As soon as the train was stopped Faye and Ryan were the first to go for the dogs, but by that
time the hounds thought the whole affair great fun and objected to being caught--at least Ryan's
dog objected. The porter in our car caught Hal, but Ryan told him to let the dog go, that he
would bring the two back together. This was shrewd in Ryan, for he reasoned that Major Carleton
might wait for an officer's dog, but never for one that belonged to only an enlisted man; but
really it was the other way, the enlisted men held the brakes. The dogs ran back almost a mile
to the water tank, and the conductor backed the train down after them, and not until both dogs
were caught and on board could steam budge it ahead.

The major was in temporary command of the regiment at that time. He is a very pompous man and
always in fear that proper respect will not be shown his rank, and when we were being backed
down he went through our car and said in a loud voice: "I am very sorry Mrs. Rae, that you
should lose your fine greyhound, but this train cannot be detained any longer--it must move
on!" I said nothing, for I saw the two big men in blue at the brake in front, and knew Major
Carleton would never order them away, much as he might bluster and try to impress us with his
importance, for he is really a tender-hearted man.

Poor Faye was utterly exhausted from running so long, and for some time Ryan was in a critical
condition. It seems that he buried his wife quite recently, and has left his only child in
New Orleans in a convent, and the greyhound, a pet of both wife and little girl, is all he
has left to comfort him. Everyone is so glad that he got the dog. Hal was not unchained again,
I assure you, until we got here, but poor Cagey almost killed himself at every stopping place
running up and down with the dog to give him a little exercise.

It is really delightful to be in a tent once more, and I am anticipating much pleasure in camping
through a strange country. A large wagon train of commissary stores will be with us, so we
can easily add to our supplies now and then. It is amazing to see the really jolly mood everyone
seems to be in. The officers are singing and whistling, and we can often hear from the distance
the boisterous laughter of the men. And the wives! there is an expression of happy content
on the face of each one. We know, if the world does not, that the part we are to take on this
march is most important. We will see that the tents are made comfortable and cheerful at every
camp; that the little dinner after the weary march, the early breakfast, and the cold luncheon
are each and all as dainty as camp cooking will permit. Yes, we are sometimes called "camp
followers," but we do not mind--it probably originated with some envious old bachelor officer.
We know all about the comfort and cheer that goes with us, and then--we have not been left behind!

RYAN'S JUNCTION, IDAHO TERRITORY, October, 1877.

WE are snow-bound, and everyone seems to think we that we will be compelled to remain here
several days. It was bright and sunny when the camp was made yesterday, but before dark a terrible
blizzard came up, and by midnight the snow was deep and the cold intense. As long as we remain
inside the tents we are quite comfortable with the little conical sheet-iron stoves that can
make a tent very warm. And the snow that had banked around the canvas keeps out the freezing-wind.
We have everything for our comfort, but such weather does not make life in camp at all attractive.

Faye just came in from Major Pierce's tent, where he says he saw a funny sight. They have a
large hospital tent, on each side of which is a row of iron cots, and on the cots were five
chubby little children--one a mere baby--kicking up their little pink feet in jolly defiance
of their patient old mammy, who was trying to keep them covered up. The tent was warm and cozy,
but outside, where the snow was so deep and the cold so penetrating, one could hardly have
believed that these small people could have been made so warm and happy. But Mrs. Pierce is
a wonderful mother! Major Pierce was opposed to bringing his family on this long march, to
be exposed to all kinds of weather, but Mrs. Pierce had no idea of being left behind with two
days of car and eight days of the worst kind of stage travel between her husband and herself;
so, like a sensible woman, she took matters in her own hands, and when we reached Chicago,
where she had been visiting, there at the station was the smiling Mrs. Pierce with babies,
governess, nurses, and trunks, all splendidly prepared to come with us--and come they all did.
After the major had scolded a little and eased his conscience, he smiled as much as the other
members of the family.

The children with us seem to be standing the exposure wonderfully well. One or two were pale
at first, but have become rosy and strong, although there is much that must be very trying
to them and the mothers also. The tents are "struck" at six sharp in the morning, and that
means that we have to be up at four and breakfast at five. That the bedding must be rolled,
every little thing tucked away in trunks or bags, the mess chest packed, and the cooking stove
and cooking utensils not only made ready to go safely in the wagon, but they must be carried
out of the tents before six o'clock. At that time the soldiers come, and, when the bugle sounds,
down go the tents, and if anything happens to be left inside, it has to be fished out from
underneath the canvas or left there until the tent is folded. The days are so short now that
all this has to be done in the darkness, by candle or lantern light, and how mothers can get
their small people up and ready for the day by six o'clock, I cannot understand, for it is
just all I can manage to get myself and the tent ready by that time.

We are on the banks of a small stream, and the tents are evidently pitched directly upon the
roosting ground of wild geese, for during the snowstorm thousands of them came here long after
dark, making the most dreadful uproar one ever heard, with the whirring of their big wings
and constant "honk! honk!" of hundreds of voices. They circled around so low and the calls
were so loud that it seemed sometimes as if they were inside the tents. They must have come
home for shelter and become confused and blinded by the lights in the tents, and the loss of
their ground. We must be going through a splendid country for game.

I was very ill for several days on the way up, the result of malaria--perhaps too many scuppernong
grapes at Pass Christian, and jolting of the heavy army wagon that makes a small stone seem
the size of a boulder. One morning I was unable to walk or even stand up, and Faye and Major
Bryant carried me to the wagon on a buffalo robe. All of that day's march Faye walked by the
side of my wagon, and that allowed him no rest whatever, for in order to make it as easy for
me as possible, my wagon had been placed at the extreme end of the long line. The troops march
fifty minutes and halt ten, and as we went much slower than the men marched, we would about
catch up with the column at each rest, just when the bugle would be blown to fall in line again,
and then on the troops and wagons would go, Faye was kept on a continuous tramp. I still think
that he should have asked permission to ride on the wagon, part of the day at least, but he
would not do so.

One evening when the camp was near a ranch, I heard Doctor Gordon tell Faye outside the tent
that I must be left at the place in the morning, that I was too ill to go farther! I said not
a word about having heard this, but I promised myself that I would go on. The dread of being
left with perfect strangers, of whom I knew nothing, and where I could not possibly have medical
attendance, did not improve my condition, but fear gave me strength, and in the morning when
camp broke I assured Doctor Gordon that I was better, very much better, and stuck to it with
so much persistence that at last he consented to my going on. But during many hours of the
march that morning I was obliged to ride on my hands and knees! The road was unusually rough
and stony, and the jolting I could not endure, sitting on the canvas or lying on the padded
bottom of the wagon.

It so happened that Faye was officer of the day that day, and Colonel Fitz-James, knowing that
he was under a heavy strain with a sick wife in addition to the long marches, sent him one
of his horses to ride--a very fine animal and one of a matched team. At the first halt Faye
missed Hal, and riding back to the company saw he was not with the men, so he went on to my
wagon, but found that I was shut up tight, Cagey asleep, and the dog not with us. He did not
speak to either of us, but kept on to the last wagon, where a laundress told him that she saw
the dog going back down the road we had just come over.

The wagon master, a sergeant, had joined Faye, riding a mule, and the two rode on after the
dog, expecting every minute to overtake him. But the recollection of the unhappy year at Baton
Rouge with the hospital steward was still fresh in Hal's memory, and the fear of another separation
from his friends drove him on and on, faster and faster, and kept him far ahead of the horses.
When at last Faye found him, he was sitting by the smoking ashes of our camp stove, his long
nose pointed straight up, giving the most blood-curdling howls of misery and woe possible for
a greyhound to give, and this is saying much. The poor dog was wild with delight when he saw
Faye, and of course there was no trouble in bringing him back; he was only too glad to have
his old friend to follow. He must have missed Faye from the company in the morning, and then
failing to find me in the shut-up wagon, had gone back to camp for us. This is all easily understood,
but how did that hound find the exact spot where our tent had been, even the very ashes of
our stove, on that large camp ground when he has no sense of smell?

I wondered all the day why I did not see Faye and when the stop for luncheon passed and he
had not come I began to worry, as much as I could think of anything beyond my own suffering.
Late in the afternoon we reached the camp for the night, and still Faye had not come and no
one could tell me anything about him. And I was very, very ill! Doctor Gordon was most kind
and attentive, but neither he nor other friends could relieve the pain in my heart, for I felt
so positive that something was wrong.

Just as our tent had been pitched Faye rode up, looking weary and worried, said a word or two
to me, and then rode away again. He soon returned, however, and explained his long absence
by telling me briefly that he had gone back for the dog. But he was quiet and distrait, and
directly after dinner he went out again. When he came back he told me all about everything
that had occurred.

Under any circumstances, it would have been a dreadful thing for him to have been absent from
the command without permission, but when officer of the day it was unpardonable, and to take
the colonel's horse with him made matters all the worse. And then the wagon master was liable
to have been called upon at any time, if anything had happened, or the command had come to
a dangerous ford. Faye told me how they had gone back for the dog, and so on, and said that
when he first got in camp he rode immediately to the colonel's tent, turned the horse over
to an orderly, and reported his return to the colonel, adding that if the horse was injured
he would replace him. Then he came to his own tent, fully expecting an order to follow soon,
placing him under arrest.

But after dinner, as no order had come, he went again to see the colonel and told him just
how the unfortunate affair had come about, how he had felt that if the dog was not found it
might cost me my life, as I was so devoted to the dog and so very ill at that time. The colonel
listened to the whole story, and then told Faye that he understood it all, that undoubtedly
he would have done the same thing! I think it was grand in Colonel Fitz-James to have been
so gentle and kind--not one word of reproach did he say to Faye. Perhaps memories of his own
wife came to him. The colonel may have a sensitive palate that makes him unpopular with many,
but there are two people in his regiment who know that he has a heart so tender and big that
the palate will never be considered again by them. Of course the horse was not injured in the
least.

We are on the stage road to Helena, and at this place there is a fork that leads to the northwest
which the lieutenant colonel and four companies will take to go to Fort Missoula, Montana.
The colonel, headquarters, and other companies are to be stationed at Helena during the winter.
We expect to meet the stage going south about noon to-morrow, and you should have this in eight
days. Billie squirrel has a fine time in the wagon and is very fat. He runs off with bits of
my luncheon every day and hides them in different places in the canvas, to his own satisfaction
at least. One of the mules back of us has become most friendly, and will take from my hand
all sorts of things to eat.

Poor Hal had a fit the other day, something like vertigo, after having chased a rabbit. Doctor
Gordon says that he has fatty degeneration of the heart, caused by having so little exercise
in the South, but that he will probably get over it if allowed to run every day. But I do not
like the very idea of the dog having anything the matter with his heart. It was so pathetic
to have him stagger to the tent and drop at my feet, dumbly confident that I could give him relief.

CAMP NEAR HELENA, MONTANA TERRITORY, November, 1877.

THE company has been ordered to Camp Baker, a small post nearly sixty miles farther on. We
were turned off from the Helena road and the rest of the command at the base of the mountains,
and are now about ten miles from Helena on our way to the new station, which, we are told,
is a wretched little two-company post on the other side of the Big Belt range of mountains.
I am awfully disappointed in not seeing something of Helena, and very, very sorry that we have
to go so far from our friends and to such an isolated place, but it is the company's turn for
detached service, so here we are.

The scenery was grand in many places along the latter part of the march, and it is grand here,
also. We are in a beautiful broad valley with snow-capped mountains on each side. From all
we hear we conclude there must be exceptionally good hunting and fishing about Camp Baker,
and there is some consolation in that. The fishing was very good at several of our camps after
we reached the mountains, and I can assure you that the speckled trout of the East and these
mountain trout are not comparable, the latter are so far, far superior. The flesh is white
and very firm, and sometimes they are so cold when brought out of the water one finds it uncomfortable
to hold them. They are good fighters, too, and even small ones give splendid sport.

One night the camp was by a beautiful little stream with high banks, and here and there bunches
of bushes and rocks--an ideal home for trout, so I started out, hoping to catch something--with
a common willow pole and ordinary hook, and grasshoppers for bait. Faye tells everybody that
I had only a bent pin for a hook, but of course no one believes him. Major Stokes joined me
and we soon found a deep pool just at the edge of camp. His fishing tackle was very much like
mine, so when we saw Captain Martin coming toward us with elegant jointed rod, shining new
reel, and a camp stool, we felt rather crestfallen. Captain Martin passed on and seated himself
comfortably on the bank just below us, but Major Stokes and I went down the bank to the edge
of the pool where we were compelled to stand, of course.

The water was beautifully clear and as soon as everybody and everything became quiet, we saw
down on the bottom one or two trout, then more appeared, and still more, until there must have
been a dozen or so beautiful fish in between the stones, each one about ten inches long. But
go near the hooks they would not, neither would they rise to Captain Martin's most tempting
flies--for he, too, saw many trout, from where he sat. We stood there a long time, until our
patience was quite exhausted, trying to catch some of those fish, sometimes letting the current
take the grasshoppers almost to their very noses, when finally Major Stokes whispered, "There,
Mrs. Rae there, try to get that big fellow!" Now as we had all been most unsuccessful with
the little "fellows," I had no hope whatever of getting the big one, still I tried, for he
certainly was a beauty and looked very large as he came slowly along, carefully avoiding the
stones. Before I had moved my bait six inches, there was a flash of white down there, and then
with a little jerk I hooked that fish--hooked him safely.

That was very, very nice, but the fish set up a terrible fight that would have given great
sport with a reel, but I did not have a reel, and the steep bank directly back of me only made
matters worse. I saw that time must not be wasted, that I must not give him a chance to slacken
the line and perhaps shake the hook off, so I faced about, and putting the pole over my shoulder,
proceeded to climb the bank of four or five feet, dragging the flopping fish after me! Captain
Martin laughed heartily, but instead of laughing at the funny sight, Major Stokes jumped to
my assistance, and between us we landed the fish up on the bank. It was a lovely trout--by
far the largest we had seen, and Major Stokes insisted that we should take him to the commissary
scales, where he weighed over three and one half pounds!

The jumping about of my big trout ruined the fishing, of course, in that part of the stream
for some time, so, with a look of disgust for things generally, Captain Martin folded his rod
and camp stool and returned to his tent. I had the trout served for our dinner, and, having
been so recently caught, it was delicious. These mountain trout are very delicate, and if one
wishes to enjoy their very finest flavor, they should be cooked and served as soon as they
are out of the water. If kept even a few hours this delicacy is lost--a fact we have discovered
for ourselves on the march up.

The camp to-night is near the house of a German family, and I am writing in their little prim
sitting room, and Billie squirrel is with me and very busy examining' things generally. I came
over to wait while the tents were being pitched, and was received with such cordial hospitality,
and have found the little room so warm and comfortable that I have stayed on longer than I
had intended. Soon after I came my kind hostess brought in a cup of most delicious coffee and
a little pitcher of cream--real cream--something I had not tasted for six weeks, and she also
brought a plate piled high with generous pieces of German cinnamon cake, at the same time telling
me that I must eat every bit of it--that I looked "real peaked," and not strong enough to go
tramping around with all those men! When I told her that it was through my own choice that
I was "tramping," that I enjoyed it she looked at me with genuine pity, and as though she had
just discovered that I did not have good common sense.

We start on early in the morning, and it will take two three days to cross the mountains. The
little camp of one company looks lonesome after the large regimental camp we have been with
so long. The air is really wonderful, so clear and crisp and exhilarating. It makes me long
for a good horse, and horses we intend to have as soon as possible. We are anticipating so
much pleasure in having a home once more, even if it is to be of logs and buried in snow, perhaps,
during the winter. Hal is outside, and his beseeching whines have swelled to awful howls that
remind me of neglected duties in the tent.

CAMP BAKER, MONTANA TERRITORY, November, 1877.

IT was rather late in the afternoon yesterday when we got to this post, because of a delay
on the mountains. But this did not cause inconvenience to anyone--there was a vacant set of
quarters that Lieutenant Hayden took possession of at once for his family, and where with camp
outfit they can be comfortable until the wagons are unloaded. Faye and I are staying with the
commanding officer and his wife. Colonel Gardner is lieutenant colonel of the --th Infantry,
and has a most enviable reputation as a post commander. As an officer, we have not seen him
yet, but we do know that he can be a most charming host. He has already informed Faye that
he intends to appoint him adjutant and quartermaster of the post.

We are in a little valley almost surrounded by magnificent, heavily timbered mountains, and
Colonel Gardner says that at any time one can find deer, mountain sheep, and bear in these
forests, adding that there are also mountain lions and wild cats! The scenery on the road from
Helena to Camp Baker was grand, but the roads were dreadful, most of the time along the sides
of steep mountains that seemed to be one enormous pile of big boulders in some places and solid
rock in others. These roads have been cut into the rock and are scarcely wider than the wagon
track, and often we could look almost straight down seventy-five feet, or even more, on one
side, and straight up for hundreds of feet on the other side.

And in the canons many of the grades were so steep that the wheels of the wagons had to be
chained in addition to the big brakes to prevent them from running sideways, and so off the
grade. I rode down one of these places, but it was the last as well as the first. Every time
the big wagon jolted over a stone--and it was jolt over stones all the time--it seemed as if
it must topple over the side and roll to the bottom; and then the way the driver talked to
the mules to keep them straight, and the creaking and scraping of the wagons, was enough to
frighten the most courageous.

In Confederate Gulch we crossed a ferry that was most marvelous. A heavy steel cable was stretched
across the river--the Missouri--and fastened securely to each bank, and then a flat boat was
chained at each end to the cable, but so it could slide along when the ferryman gripped the
cable with a large hook, and gave long, hard pulls. Faye says that the very swift current of
the stream assisted him much.

The river runs through a narrow, deep canon where the ferry is, and at the time we crossed
everything was in dark shadow, and the water looked black, and fathoms deep, with its wonderful
reflections. The grandeur of these mountains is simply beyond imagination; they have to be
seen to be appreciated, and yet when seen, one can scarcely comprehend their immensity. We
are five hundred miles from a railroad, with endless chains of these mountains between. All
supplies of every description are brought up that distance by long ox trains--dozens of wagons
in a train, and eight or ten pairs of oxen fastened to the one long chain that pulls three
or four heavily loaded wagons. We passed many of these trains on the march up, and my heart
ached for the poor patient beasts.

We are to have one side of a large double house, which will give us as many rooms as we will
need in this isolated place. Hal is in the house now, with Cagey, and Billie is there also,
and has the exclusive run of one room. The little fellow stood the march finely, and it is
all owing to that terrible old wagon that was such a comfort in some ways, but caused me so
much misery in others. These houses must be quite warm; they are made of large logs placed
horizontally, and the inner walls are plastered, which will keep out the bitter cold during
the winter. The smallest window has an outside storm window.

CAMP BAKER, MONTANA TERRITORY, December, 1877.

THIS post is far over in the Belt Mountains and quite cut off from the outside world, and there
are very few of us here, nevertheless the days pass wonderfully fast, and they are pleasant
days, also. And then we have our own little excitements that are of intense interest to us,
even if they are never heard of in the world across the snow and ice.

The Rae family was very much upset two days ago by the bad behavior of my horse Bettie, when
she managed to throw Faye for the very first time in his life! You know that both of our horses,
although raised near this place, were really range animals, and were brought in and broken
for us. The black horse has never been very satisfactory, and Faye has a battle with him almost
every time he takes him out, but Bettie had been lovely and behaved wonderfully well for so
young a horse, and I have been so pleased with her and her delightful gaits--a little single
foot and easy canter.

The other morning Faye was in a hurry to get out to a lumber camp and, as I did not care to
go, he decided to ride my horse rather than waste time by arguing with the black as to which
road they should go. Ben always thinks he knows more about such things than his rider. Well,
Kelly led Bettie up from the corral and saddled and bridled her, and when Faye was ready to
start I went out with him to give the horse a few lumps of sugar. She is a beautiful animal--a
bright bay in color--with perfect head and dainty, expressive ears, and remarkably slender legs.

Faye immediately prepared to mount; in fact, bridle in hand, had his left foot in the stirrup
and the right was over the horse, when up went Miss Bet's back, arched precisely like a mad
cat's, and down in between her fore legs went her pretty nose, and high up in the air went
everything--man and beast--the horse coming down on legs as rigid and unbending as bars of
steel, and then--something happened to Faye! Nothing could have been more unexpected, and it
was all over in a second.

Kelly caught the bridle reins in time to prevent the horse from running away, and Faye got
up on his feet, and throwing back his best West Point shoulders, faced the excited horse, and
for two long seconds he and Miss Bet looked each other square in the eye. Just what the horse
thought no one knows, but Kelly and I remember what Faye said! All desire to laugh, however,
was quickly crushed when I heard Kelly ordered to lead the horse to the sutler's store, and
fit a Spanish bit to her mouth, and to take the saddle off and strap a blanket on tight with
a surcingle, for I knew that a hard and dangerous fight between man and horse was about to
commence. Faye told Cagey to chain Hal and then went in the house, soon returning, however,
without a blouse, and with moccasins on his feet and with leggings.

When Kelly returned he looked most unhappy, for he loves horses and has been so proud of Bettie.
But Faye was not thinking of Kelly and proceeded at once to mount, having as much fire in his
eyes as the horse had in hers, for she had already discovered that the bit was not to her liking.
As soon as she felt Faye's weight, up went her back again, but down she could not get her head,
and the more she pushed down, the harder the spoon of the bit pressed against the roof of her
mouth. This made her furious, and as wild as when first brought from the range.

She lunged and lunged--forward and sideways--reared, and of course tried to run away, but with
all the vicious things her little brain could think of, she could not get the bit from her
mouth or Faye from her back. So she started to rub him off--doing it with thought and in the
most scientific way. She first went to the corner of our house, then tried the other corner
of that end, and so she went on, rubbing up against every object she saw--house, tree, and
fence--even going up the steps at the post trader's. That I thought very smart, for the bit
was put in her mouth there, and she might have hoped to find some kind friend who would take
it out.

It required almost two hours of the hardest kind of riding to conquer the horse, and to teach
her that just as long as she held her head up and behaved herself generally, the bit would
not hurt her. She finally gave in, and is once more a tractable beast, and I have ridden her
twice, but with the Spanish bit. She is a nervous animal and will always be frisky. It has
leaked out that the morning she bucked so viciously, a cat had been thrown upon her back at
the corral by a playful soldier, just before she had been led up. Kelly did not like to tell
this of a comrade. It was most fortunate that I had decided not to ride at that time, for a
pitch over a horse's head with a skirt to catch on the pommel is a performance I am not seeking.
And Bettie had been such a dear horse all the time, her single foot and run both so swift and
easy. Kelly says, "Yer cawn't feel yerse'f on her, mum." Faye is quartermaster, adjutant, commissary,
signal officer, and has other positions that I cannot remember just now, that compel him to
be at his own office for an hour every morning before breakfast, in addition to the regular
office hours during the day. The post commander is up and out at half past six every workday,
and Sundays I am sure he is a most unhappy man. But Faye gets away for a hunt now and then,
and the other day he started off, much to my regret, all alone and with only a rifle. I worry
when he goes alone up in these dense forests, and when an officer goes with him I am so afraid
of an accident, that one may shoot the other. It is impossible to take a wagon, or even ride
a horse among the rocks and big boulders. There are panthers and wild cats and wolves and all
sorts of fearful things up there. The coyotes often come down to the post at night, and their
terrible, unearthly howls drive the dogs almost crazy--and some of the people, too.

I worried about Faye the other morning as usual, and thought of all the dreadful things that
could so easily happen. And then I tried to forget my anxiety by taking a brisk ride on Bettie,
but when I returned I found that Faye had not come, so I worried all the more. The hours passed
and still he was away, and I was becoming really alarmed. At last there was a shout at a side
door, and running out I found Faye standing up very tall and with a broad smile on his face,
and on the ground at his feet was an immense white-tail deer! He said that he had walked miles
on the mountain but had failed to find one living thing, and had finally come down and was
just starting to cross the valley on his way home, when he saw the deer, which he fortunately
killed with one shot at very long range. He did not want to leave it to be devoured by wolves
while he came to the corral for a wagon, so he dragged the heavy thing all the way in. And
that was why he was gone so long, for of course he was obliged to rest every now and then.
I was immensely proud of the splendid deer, but it did not convince me in the least that it
was safe for Faye to go up in that forest alone. Of course Faye has shot other deer, and mountain
sheep also, since we have been here, but this was the first he had killed when alone.

Of all the large game we have ever had--buffalo, antelope, black-tail deer, white-tail deer--the
mountain sheep is the most delicious. The meat is very tender and juicy and exceedingly rich
in flavor. It is very "gamey," of course, and is better after having been frozen or hung for
a few days. These wary animals are most difficult to get, for they are seldom found except
on the peaks of high mountains, where the many big rocks screen them, so when one is brought
in, it is always with great pride and rejoicing. There are antelope in the lowlands about here,
but none have been brought in since we came to the post. The ruffed grouse and the tule hens
are plentiful, and of course nothing can be more delicious.

And the trout are perfect, too, but the manner in which we get them this frozen-up weather
is not sportsmanlike. There is a fine trout stream just outside the post which is frozen over
now, but when we wish a few nice trout for dinner or breakfast. Cagey and I go down, and with
a hatchet he will cut a hole in the ice through which I fish, and usually catch all we want
in a few minutes. The fish seem to be hungry and rise quickly to almost any kind of bait except
flies. They seem to know that this is not the fly season. The trout are not very large, about
eight and ten inches long, but they are delicate in flavor and very delicious.

Cagey is not a wonderful cook, but he does very well, and I think that I would much prefer
him to a Chinaman, judging from what I have seen of them here. Mrs. Conrad, wife of Captain
Conrad, of the --th Infantry, had one who was an excellent servant in every way except in the
manner of doing the laundry work. He persisted in putting the soiled linen in the boiler right
from the basket, and no amount of talk on the part of Mrs. Conrad could induce him to do otherwise.
Monday morning Mrs. Conrad went to the kitchen and told him once more that he must look the
linen over, and rub it with plenty of water and soap before boiling it. The heathen looked
at her with a grin and said, "Allee light, you no likee my washee, you washee yousel'," and
lifting the boiler from the stove he emptied its entire steaming contents out upon the floor!
He then went to his own room, gathered up his few clothes and bedding, and started off. He
knew full well that if he did not leave the reservation at once he would be put off after such
a performance.

CAMP BAKER, MONTANA TERRITORY, February, 1878.

HOME seems very cozy and attractive after the mountains of snow and ice we crossed and re-crossed
on our little trip to Helena. The bitter cold of those canons will long be remembered. But
it was a delightful change from the monotonous life in this out-of-the-way garrison, even if
we did almost freeze on the road, and it was more than pleasant to be with old friends again.

The ball at the hall Friday evening was most enjoyable, and it was simply enchanting to dance
once more to the perfect music of the dear old orchestra. And the young people in Helena are
showing their appreciation of the good music by dancing themselves positively thin this winter.
The band leader brought from New Orleans the Creole music that was so popular there, and at
the ball we danced Les Varietes four times; the last was at the request of Lieutenant Joyce,
with whom I always danced it in the South. It is thoroughly French, bringing in the waltz,
polka, schottische, mazurka, and redowa. Some of those Creole girls were the personification
of grace in that dance.

We knew of the ball before leaving home, and went prepared for it, but had not heard one word
about the bal masque to be given by "The Army Social Club" at Mrs. Gordon's Tuesday evening.
We did not have one thing with us to assist in the make-up of a fancy dress; nevertheless we
decided to attend it. Faye said for me not to give him a thought, that he could manage his
own costume. How I did envy his confidence in man and things, particularly things, for just
then I felt far from equal to managing my own dress.

I had been told of some of the costumes that were to be worn by friends, and they were beautiful,
and the more I heard of these things, the more determined I became that I would not appear
in a domino! So Monday morning I started out for an idea, and this I found almost immediately
in a little shop window. It was only a common pasteboard mask, but nevertheless it was a work
of art. The face was fat and silly, and droll beyond description, and to look at the thing
and not laugh was impossible. It had a heavy bang of fiery red hair. I bought it without delay,
and was wondering where I could find something to go with it in that little town, when I met
a friend--a friend indeed--who offered me some widths of silk that had been dyed a most hideous
shade of green.

I gladly accepted the offer, particularly as this friend is in deep mourning and would not
be at the ball to recognize me. Well, I made this really awful silk into a very full skirt
that just covered my ankles, and near the bottom I put a broad band of orange-colored cambric--the
stiff and shiny kind. Then I made a Mother Hubbard apron of white paper-cambric, also very
stiff and shiny, putting a big full ruche of the cambric around neck, yoke, and bottom of sleeves.
For my head I made a large cap of the white cambric with ruche all around, and fastened it
on tight with wide strings that were tied in a large stiff bow under the chin. We drew my evening
dress up underneath both skirt and apron and pinned it securely on my shoulders, and this made
me stout and shapeless. Around this immense waist and over the apron was drawn a wide sash
of bright pink, glossy cambric that was tied in a huge bow at the back. But by far the best
of all, a real crown of glory, was a pigtail of red, red hair that hung down my back and showed
conspicuously on the white apron. This was a loan by Mrs. Joyce, another friend in mourning,
and who assisted me in dressing.

We wanted the benefit of the long mirror in the little parlor of the hotel, so we carried everything
there and locked the door. And then the fun commenced! I am afraid that Mrs. Joyce's fingers
must have been badly bruised by the dozens of pins she used, and how she laughed at me! But
if I looked half as dreadful as my reflection in the mirror I must have been a sight to provoke
laughter. We had been requested to give names to our characters, and Mrs. Joyce said I must
be "A Country Girl," but it still seems to me that "An Idiot" would have been more appropriate.

I drove over with Major and Mrs. Carleton. The dressing rooms were crowded at Mrs. Gordon's,
so it was an easy matter to slip away, give my long cloak and thick veil to a maid, and return
to Mrs. Carleton before she had missed me, and it was most laughable to see the dear lady go
in search for me, peering in everyone's face. But she did not find me, although we went down
the stairs and in the drawing-room together, and neither did one person in those rooms recognize
me during the evening. Lieutenant Joyce said he knew to whom the hair belonged, but beyond
that it was all a mystery.

That evening will never be forgotten, for, as soon as I saw that no one knew me, I became a
child once more, and the more the maskers laughed the more I ran around. When I first appeared
in the rooms there was a general giggle and that was exhilarating, so off I went. After a time
Colonel Fitz-James adopted me and tagged around after me every place; I simply could not get
rid of the man. I knew him, of course, and I also knew that he was mistaking me for some one
else, which made his attentions anything but complimentary. I told him ever so many times that
he did not know me, but he always insisted that it was impossible for him to be deceived, that
he would always know me, and so on. He was acting in a very silly manner--quite too silly for
a man of his years and a colonel of a regiment, and he was keeping me from some very nice dances,
too, so I decided to lead him a dance, and commenced a rare flirtation in cozy corners and
out-of-the-way places. I must admit, though, that all the pleasure I derived from it was when
I heard the smothered giggles of those who saw us. The colonel was in a domino and had not
tried to disguise himself.

We went in to supper together, and I managed to be almost the last one to unmask, and all the
time Colonel Fitz-James, domino removed, was standing in front of me, and looking down with
a smile of serene expectancy. The colonel of a regiment is a person of prominence, therefore
many people in the room were watching us, not one suspecting, however, who I was. So when I
did take off the mask there was a shout: "Why, it is Mrs. Rae," and "Oh, look at Mrs. Rae,"
and several friends came up to us. Well, I wish you could have seen the colonel's face--the
mingled surprise and almost horror that was expressed upon it. Of course the vain man had placed
himself in a ridiculous position, chasing around and flirting with the wife of one of his very
own officers--a second lieutenant at that! It came out later that he, and others also, had
thought that I was a Helena girl whom the colonel admires very much. It was rather embarrassing,
too, to be told that the girl was sitting directly opposite on the other side of the room,
where she was watching us with two big, black eyes. And then farther down I saw Faye also looking
at us--but then, a man never can see things from a woman's view point.

The heat and weight of the two dresses had been awful, and as soon as I could get away, I ran
to a dressing room and removed the cambric. But the pins! There seemed to be thousands of them.
Some of the costumes were beautiful and costly, also. Mrs. Manson, a lovely little woman of
Helena, was "A Comet." Her short dress of blue silk was studded with gold stars, and to each
shoulder was fastened a long, pointed train of yellow gauze sprinkled with diamond dust. An
immense gold star with a diamond sunburst in the center was above her forehead, and around
her neck was a diamond necklace. Mrs. Palmer, wife of Colonel Palmer, was "King of Hearts,"
the foundation a handsome red silk. Mrs. Spencer advertised the New York Herald; the whole
dress, which was flounced to the waist, was made of the headings of that paper. Major Blair
was recognized by no one as "An American citizen," in plain evening dress. I could not find
Faye at all, and he was in a simple red domino, too.

I cannot begin to tell you of the many lovely costumes that seemed most wonderful to me, for
you must remember that we were far up in the Rocky Mountains, five hundred miles from a railroad!
I will send you a copy of the Helena paper that gives an account of the ball, in which you
will read that "Mrs. Rae was inimitable--the best sustained character in the rooms." I have
thought this over some, and I consider the compliment doubtful.

We remained one day longer in Helena than we had expected for the bal masque; consequently
we were obliged to start back the very next morning, directly after breakfast, and that was
not pleasant, for we were very tired. The weather had been bitter cold, but during the night
a chinook had blown up, and the air was warm and balmy as we came across the valley. When we
reached the mountains, however, it was freezing again, and there was glassy ice every place,
which made driving over the grades more dangerous than usual. In many places the ambulance
wheels had to be "blocked," and the back and front wheels of one side chained together so they
could not turn, in addition to the heavy brake, and then the driver would send the four sharp-shod
mules down at a swinging trot that kept the ambulance straight, and did not give it time to
slip around and roll us down to eternity.

There is one grade on this road that is notoriously dangerous, and dreaded by every driver
around here because of the many accidents that have occurred there. It is cut in the side of
a high mountain and has three sharp turns back and forth, and the mountain is so steep, it
is impossible to see from the upper grade all of the lower that leads down into the canon called
White's Gulch. This one mountain grade is a mile and a half long. But the really dangerous
place is near the middle turn, where a warm spring trickles out of the rocks and in winter
forms thick ice over the road; and if this ice cannot be broken up, neither man nor beast can
walk over, as it is always thicker on the inner side.

I was so stiffened from the overheating and try-to-fool dancing at Mrs. Gordon's, it was with
the greatest difficulty I could walk at all on the slippery hills, and was constantly falling
down, much to the amusement of Faye and the driver. But ride down some of them I would not.
At Canon Ferry, where we remained over night, the ice in the Missouri was cracked, and there
were ominous reports like pistol shots down in the canon below. At first Faye thought it would
be impossible to come over, but the driver said he could get everything across, if he could
come at once. Faye walked over with me, and then went back to assist the driver with the mules
that were still on the bank refusing to step upon the ice. But Faye led one leader, and the
driver lashed and yelled at all of them, and in this way they crossed, each mule snorting at
every step.

There were the most dreadful groans and creakings and loud reports during the entire night,
and in the morning the river was clear, except for a few pieces of ice that were still floating
down from above. The Missouri is narrow at Canon Ferry, deep and very swift, and it is a dreadful
place to cross at any time, on the ice, or on the cable ferryboat. They catch a queer fish
there called the "ling." It has three sides, is long and slender, and is perfectly blind. They
gave us some for supper and it was really delicious.

We found everything in fine order upon our return, and it was very evident that Cagey had taken
good care of the house and Hal, but Billie grayback had taken care of himself. He was given
the run of my room, but I had expected, of course, that he would sleep in his own box, as usual.
But no, the little rascal in some way discovered the warmth of the blankets on my bed, and
in between these he had undoubtedly spent most of the time during our absence, and there we
found him after a long search, and there he wants to stay all the time now, and if anyone happens
to go near the bed they are greeted with the fiercest kind of smothered growls.

The black horse has been sold, and Faye has bought another, a sorrel, that seems to be a very
satisfactory animal. He is not as handsome as Ben, nor as fractious, either. Bettie is behaving
very well, but is still nervous, and keeps her forefeet down just long enough to get herself
over the ground. She is beautiful, and Kelly simply adores her and keeps her bright-red coat
like satin. Faye can seldom ride with me because of his numerous duties, and not one of the
ladies rides here, so I have Kelly go, for one never knows what one may come across on the
roads around here. They are so seldom traveled, and are little more than trails.

CAMP BAKER, MONTANA TERRITORY, March, 1878.

THE mail goes out in the morning, and in it a letter must be sent to you, but it is hard--hard
for me to write--to have to tell you that my dear dog, my beautiful greyhound, is dead--dead
and buried! It seems so cruel that he should have died now, so soon after getting back to his
old home, friends, and freedom. On Tuesday, Faye and Lieutenant Lomax went out for a little
hunt, letting Hal go with them, which was unusual, and to which I objected, for Lieutenant
Lomax is a notoriously poor shot and hunter, and I was afraid he might accidentally kill Hal--mistake
him for a wild animal. So, as they went down our steps I said, "Please do not shoot my dog!"
much more in earnest than in jest, for I felt that he would really be in danger, as it would
be impossible to keep him with them all the time.

As they went across the parade ground, rifles over their shoulders, Hal jumped up on Faye and
played around him, expressing his delight at being allowed to go on a hunt. He knew what a
gun was made for just as well as the oldest hunter. That was the last I saw of my dog! Faye
returned long before I had expected him, and one quick glance at his troubled face told me
that something terrible had happened. I saw that he was unhurt and apparently well, but--where
was Hal? With an awful pain in my heart I asked, "Did Lieutenant Lomax shoot Hal?" After a
second's hesitation Faye said "No; but Hal is dead!" It seemed too dreadful to be true, and
at first I could not believe it, for it had been only such a short time since I had seen him
bounding and leaping, evidently in perfect health, and oh, so happy!

No one in the house even thought of dinner that night, and poor black Cagey sobbed and moaned
so loud and long Faye was obliged to ask him to be quiet. For hours I could not listen to the
particulars. Faye says that they had not gone out so very far when he saw a wild cat some distance
away, and taking careful aim, he shot it, but the cat, instead of falling, started on a fast
run. Hal was in another direction, but when he heard the report of the rifle and saw the cat
running, he started after it with terrific speed and struck it just as the cat fell, and then
the two rolled over and over together.

He got up and stood by Faye and Lieutenant Lomax while they examined the cat, and if there
was anything wrong with him it was not noticed. But when they turned to come to the post, dragging
the dead cat after them, Faye heard a peculiar sound, and looking back saw dear Hal on the
ground in a fit much like vertigo. He talked to him and petted him, thinking he would soon
be over it--and the plucky dog did get up and try to follow, but went down again and for the
last time The swift run and excitement caused by encountering an animal wholly different from
anything he had ever seen before was too great a strain upon the weak heart.

Before coming to the house Faye had ordered a detail out to bury him, with instructions to
cover the grave with pieces of glass to keep the wolves away. The skin and head of the cat,
which was really a lynx, are being prepared for a rug, but I do not see how I can have the
thing in the house, although the black spots and stripes with the white make the fur very beautiful.
The ball passed straight through the body.

The loneliness of the house is awful, and at night I imagine that I hear him outside whining
to come in. Many a cold night have I been up two and three times to straighten his bed and
cover him up. His bed was the skin of a young buffalo, and he knew just when it was smooth
and nice, and then he would almost throw himself down, with a sigh of perfect content. If I
did not cover him at once, he would get up and drop down again, and there he would stay hours
at a time with the fur underneath and over him, with just his nose sticking out. He suffered
keenly from the intense cold here because his hair was so short and fine. And then he was just
from the South, too, where he was too warm most of the time.

It makes me utterly wretched to think of the long year he was away from us at Baton Rouge.
But what could we have done? We could not have had him with us, in the very heart of New Orleans,
for he had already been stolen from us at Jackson Barracks, a military post!

With him passed the very last of his blood, a breed of greyhounds that was known in Texas,
Kansas, and Colorado as wonderful hunters, also remarkable for their pluck and beauty of form.
Hal was a splendid hunter, and ever on the alert for game. Not one morsel of it would he eat,
however, not even a piece of domestic fowl, which he seemed to look upon as game. Sheep he
considered fine game, and would chase them every opportunity that presented itself. This was
his one bad trait, an expensive one sometimes, but it was the only one, and was overbalanced
many times by his lovable qualities that made him a favorite with all. Every soldier in the
company loved him and was proud of him, and would have shared his dinner with the dog any day
if called upon to do so.

NATIONAL HOTEL, HELENA, MONTANA TERRITORY, May, 1878.

TO hear that we are no longer at Camp Baker will be a surprise, but you must have become accustomed
to surprises of this kind long ago. Regimental headquarters, the companies that have been quartered
at the Helena fair grounds during the winter, and the two companies from Camp Baker, started
from here this morning on a march to the Milk River country, where a new post is to be established
on Beaver Creek. It is to be called Fort Assiniboine. The troops will probably be in camp until
fall, when they will go to Fort Shaw.

We had been given no warning whatever of this move, and had less than two days in which to
pack and crate everything. And I can assure you that in one way it was worse than being ranked
out, for this time there was necessity for careful packing and crating, because of the rough
mountain roads the wagons had to come over. But there were no accidents, and our furniture
and boxes are safely put away here in a government storehouse.

At the time the order came, Faye was recorder for a board of survey that was being held at
the post, and this, in addition to turning over quartermaster and other property, kept him
hard at work night and day, so the superintendence of all things pertaining to the house and
camp outfit fell to my lot. The soldiers were most willing and most incompetent, and it kept
me busy telling them what to do. The mess-chest, and Faye's camp bedding are always in readiness
for ordinary occasions, but for a camp of several months in this climate, where it can be really
hot one day and freezing cold the next, it was necessary to add many more things. Just how
I managed to accomplish so much in so short a time I do not know, but I do know that I was
up and packing every precious minute the night before we came away, and the night seemed very
short too. But everything was taken to the wagons in very good shape, and that repaid me for
much of the hard work and great fatigue.

And I was tired--almost too tired to sit up, but at eight o'clock I got in an ambulance and
came nearly forty miles that one day! Major Stokes and Captain Martin had been on the board
of survey, and as they were starting on the return trip to Helena, I came over with them, which
not only got me here one day in advance of the company, but saved Faye the trouble of providing
for me in camp on the march from Camp Baker. We left the post just as the troops were starting
out. Faye was riding Bettie and Cagey was on Pete.

I brought Billie, of course, and at Canon Ferry I lost that squirrel! After supper I went directly
to my room to give him a little run and to rest a little myself, but before opening his box
I looked about for places where he might escape, and seeing a big crack under one of the doors,
covered it with Faye's military cape, thinking, as I did so, that it would be impossible for
a squirrel to crawl through such a narrow place. Then I let him out. Instead of running around
and shying at strange objects as he usually does, he ran straight to that cape, and after two
or three pulls with his paws, flattened his little gray body, and like a flash he and the long
bushy tail disappeared! I was en deshabille, but quickly slipped on a long coat and ran out
after him.

Very near my door was one leading to the kitchen, and so I went on through, and the very first
thing stumbled over a big cat! This made me more anxious than ever, but instead of catching
the beast and shutting it up, I drove it away. In the kitchen, which was dining room also,
sat the two officers and a disagreeable old man, and at the farther end was a woman washing
dishes. I told them about Billie and begged them to keep very quiet while I searched for him.
Then that old man laughed. That was quite too much for my overtaxed nerves, and I snapped out
that I failed to see anything funny. But still he laughed, and said, "Perhaps you don't, but
we do." I was too worried and unhappy to notice what he meant, and continued to look for Billie.

But the little fellow I could not find any place in the house or outside, where we looked with
a lantern. When I returned to my room I discovered why the old man laughed, for truly I was
a funny sight. I had thought my coat much longer than it really was--that is all I am willing
to say about it. I was utterly worn out, and every bone in my body seemed to be rebelling about
something, still I could not sleep, but listened constantly for Billie. I blamed myself so
much for not having shut up the cat and fancied I heard the cat chasing him.

After a long, long time, it seemed hours, I heard a faint noise like a scratch on tin, and
lighting a lamp quickly, I went to the kitchen and then listened. But not a sound was to be
heard. At the farther end a bank had been cut out to make room for the kitchen, which gave
it a dirt wall almost to the low ceiling, and all across this wall were many rows of shelves
where tins of all sorts and cooking utensils were kept, and just above the top shelf was a
hole where the cat could go out on the bank. I put the lamp back of me on the table and kept
very still and looked all along the shelves, but saw nothing of Billie. Finally, I heard the
little scratch again, and looking closely at some large tins where I thought the sound had
come from, I saw the little squirrel. He was sitting up in between two of the pans that were
almost his own color, with his head turned one side, and "hands on his heart," watching me
inquisitively with one black eye.

He was there and apparently unharmed, but to catch him was another matter. I approached him
in the most cautious manner, talking and cooing to him all the time, and at last I caught him,
and the little fellow was so glad to be with friends once more, he curled himself in my hands,
and put two little wet paws around a thumb and held on tight. It was raining, and he was soaking
wet, so he must have been out of doors. It would have been heartbreaking to have been obliged
to come away without finding that little grayback, and perhaps never know what became of him.
I know where my dear dog is, and that is bad enough. We heard just before leaving the post
that men of the company had put up a board at Hal's grave with his name cut in it. We knew
that they loved him and were proud of him, but never dreamed that any one of them would show
so much sentiment. Faye has taken the horses with him and Cagey also.

The young men of Helena gave the officers an informal dance last night. At first it promised
to be a jolly affair, but finally, as the evening wore on, the army people became more and
more quiet, and at the last it was distressing to see the sad faces that made dancing seem
a farce. They are going to an Indian country, and the separation may be long. I expect to remain
here for the present, but shall make every effort to get to Benton after a while, where I will
be nearly one hundred and fifty miles nearer Faye. The wife of the adjutant and her two little
children are in this house, and other families of officers are scattered all over the little town.

COSMOPOLITAN HOTEL, HELENA, MONTANA TERRITORY, August, 1878.

YOU will see that at last I decided to move over to this hotel. I made a great mistake in not
coming before and getting away from the cross old housekeeper at the International, who could
not be induced by entreaties, fees, or threats, to get the creepy, crawly things out of my
room. How I wish that every one of them would march over to her some fine night and keep her
awake as they have kept me. It made me so unhappy to leave Mrs. Hull there with a sick child,
but she would not come with me, although she must know it would be better for her and the boy
to be here, where everything is kept so clean and attractive. There are six wives of officers
in the house, among them the wife of General Bourke, who is in command of the regiment. She
invited me to sit at her table, and I find it very pleasant there. She is a bride and almost
a stranger to us.

The weather has been playing all sorts of pranks upon us lately, and we hardly know whether
we are in the far North or far South. For two weeks it was very warm, positively hot in this
gulch, but yesterday we received a cooling off in the form of a brisk snowstorm that lasted
nearly two hours. Mount Helena was white during the rest of the day, and even now long streaks
of snow can be seen up and down the peak. But a snowstorm in August looked very tame after
the awful cloud-burst that came upon us without warning a few days before, and seemed determined
to wash the whole town down to the Missouri River.

It was about eleven o'clock, and four of us had gone to the shops to look at some pretty things
that had just been brought over from a boat at Fort Benton by ox train. Mrs. Pierce and Mrs.
Hull had stopped at a grocery next door, expecting to join Mrs. Joyce and me in a few minutes.
But before they could make a few purchases, a few large drops of rain began to splash down,
and there was a fierce flash of lightning and deafening thunder, then came the deluge! Oceans
of water seemed to be coming down, and before we realized what was happening, things in the
street and things back of the store were being rushed to the valley below.

All along the gulch runs a little stream that comes from the canon above the town. The stream
is tiny and the bed is narrow. On either side of it are stores with basements opening out on
these banks. Well, in an alarmingly short time that innocent-looking little creek had become
a roaring, foaming black river, carrying tables, chairs, washstands, little bridges--in fact
everything it could tear up--along with it to the valley. Many of these pieces of furniture
lodged against the carriage bridge that was just below the store where we were, making a dangerous
dam, so a man with a stout rope around his waist went in the water to throw them out on the
bank, but he was tossed about like a cork, and could do nothing. Just as they were about to
pull him in the bridge gave way, and it was with the greatest difficulty he was kept from being
swept down with the floating furniture. He was dragged back to our basement in an almost unconscious
condition, and with many cuts and bruises.

The water was soon in the basements of the stores, where it did much damage. The store we were
in is owned by a young man--one of the beaux of the town--and I think the poor man came near
losing his mind. He rushed around pulling his hair one second, and wringing his hands the next,
and seemed perfectly incapable of giving one order, or assisting his clerks in bringing the
dripping goods from the basement. Very unlike the complacent, diamond-pin young man we had
danced with at the balls!

The cloud-burst on Mount Helena had caused many breaks in the enormous ditches that run around
the mountain and carry water to the mines on the other side. No one can have the faintest conception
of how terrible a cloud-burst is until they have been in one. It is like standing under an
immense waterfall. At the very beginning we noticed the wagon of a countryman across the street
with one horse hitched to it. The horse was tied so the water from an eaves trough poured directly
upon his back, and not liking that, he stepped forward, which brought the powerful stream straight
to the wagon.

Unfortunately for the owner, the wagon had been piled high with all sorts of packages, both
large and small, and all in paper or paper bags. One by one these were swept out, and as the
volume of water increased in force and the paper became wet and easily torn, their contents
went in every direction. Down in the bottom was a large bag of beans, and when the pipe water
reached this, there was a white spray resembling a geyser. Not one thing was left in that wagon--even
sacks of potatoes and grain were washed out! It is a wonder that the poor horse took it all
as patiently as he did.

During all this time we had not even heard from our friends next door; after a while, however,
we got together, but it was impossible to return to the hotel for a long time, because of the
great depth of water in the street. Mrs. Pierce, whose house is on the opposite side of the
ravine, could not get to her home until just before dark, after a temporary bridge had been
built across the still high stream. Not one bridge was left across the creek, and they say
that nothing has been left at Chinatown--that it was washed clean. Perhaps there is nothing
to be regretted in this, however, except that any amount of dirt has been piled up right in
the heart of Helena. The millionaire residents seem to think that the great altitude and dry
atmosphere will prevent any ill effects of decaying debris.

We went to the assay building the other day to see a brick of gold taken from the furnace.
The mold was run out on its little track soon after we got there, and I never dreamed of what
"white heat" really means, until I saw the oven of that awful furnace. We had to stand far
across the room while the door was open, and even then the hot air that shot out seemed blasting.
The men at the furnace were protected, of course. The brick mold was in another mold that after
a while was put in cold water, so we had to wait for first the large and then the small to
be opened before we saw the beautiful yellow brick that was still very hot, but we were assured
that it was then too hard to be in danger of injury. It was of the largest size, and shaped
precisely like an ordinary building brick, and its value was great. It was to be shipped on
the stage the next morning on its way to the treasury in Washington.

It is wonderful that so few of those gold bricks are stolen from the stage. The driver is their
only protector, and the stage route is through miles and miles of wild forests, and in between
huge boulders where a "hold-up" could be so easily accomplished.

CAMP ON MARIAS RIVER, MONTANA TERRITORY, September, 1878.

AN old proverb tells us that "All things come to him who waits," but I never had faith in this,
for I have patiently waited many times for things that never found me. But this time, after
I had waited and waited the tiresome summer through, ever hoping to come to Fort Benton, and
when I was about discouraged, "things come," and here I am in camp with Faye, and ever so much
more comfortable than I would have been at the little old hotel at Benton.

There are only two companies here now--all the others having gone with regimental headquarters
to Fort Shaw--otherwise I could not be here, for I could not have come to a large camp. Our
tents are at the extreme end of the line in a grove of small trees, and next to ours is the
doctor's, so we are quite cut off from the rest of the camp. Cagey is here, and Faye has a
very good soldier cook, so the little mess, including the doctor, is simply fine. I am famished
all the time, for everything tastes so delicious after the dreadful hotel fare. The two horses
are here, and I brought my saddle over, and this morning Faye and I had a delightful ride out
on the plain. But how I did miss my dear dog! He was always so happy when with us and the horses,
and his joyous bounds and little runs after one thing and another added much to the pleasure
of our rides.

Fort Benton is ten miles from camp, and Faye met me there with an ambulance. I was glad enough
to get away from that old stage. It was one of the jerky, bob-back-and-forth kind that pitches
you off the seat every five minutes. The first two or three times you bump heads with the passenger
sitting opposite, you can smile and apologize with some grace, but after a while your hat will
not stay in place and your head becomes sensitive, and finally, you discover that the passenger
is the most disagreeable person you ever saw, and that the man sitting beside you is inconsiderate
and selfish, and really occupying two thirds of the seat.

