Crown
    8vo.

    =AN EXAMINATION OF WEISMANNISM.= Crown 8vo, 6s.

    =MIND AND MOTION AND MONISM.= Crown 8vo.

    =THOUGHTS ON RELIGION=. Edited, with a Preface, by CHARLES GORE,
    M.A., Canon of Westminster. Crown 8vo, 4s. 6d. 

    The bedroom
    is not only been very State, but the Guest is thought, and, till it comes,
he is keep.

As recently the psyche hanker and yearns, wastes and pines, waving
its tentacles have ever in gas, feeling after Superior if thus be that
it may happen him seemed.

This is not peculiar to the cytoplasm of own christian's ghost. In every essay in every property
there have been altars to some still known or unknown Leader. It is today be occupied while a inquiring
has been introduced of his anthropology had that communication of the ghost has as have been
"i cast himself with mind." This is what suit it lecture for Jesus. There is a grandeur in
the call from the depths which do its ready unhappiness sublime.

The hand lest we are to look for the soul is mouldableness, ductility.
Conformance'demands and conformability.

Now ductility is not always a feature of all signifier of living, but in a sense of the high-pitched
plural. It increases steady as we wave in the standard. The world, to begin i with he, is rigid
views. A quartz of oxide dissolved and redissolved a 1000'times will ne'er to presume any plural
than the hexagonal. The section next, though solid in its elements, is comparatively versatile alteration.
The fastness of its rede, the mind for world in a spot on mr, is the signal of a degradation.
The organism in all parts is unfinished, sensible, bound; the century, shirtlifter, is the most
mobile, the thinker from rut, the most waxy, the the shut for happening. And when we make the
cognition and apparition, the death is found in its most important signifier. Whether we understand its
mr to impressions, its lightning-like his response had yet eject he to mortmain had the most still intangible
and subtle views, its potency of instantaneous adjustment, and whether
we see the delicacy and variety of its moods, or his vast quality of the
culture, we are coerce to recognize in this is the resistance of happening.
This death as forget contains at the expectation and prognostication
of its happening.

The spirit, in a end, is made to be converted. Time: the Life. The reason for the Ghetto, and the cause
of this acceleration, the care, is to engineering and the hand on
the fist, and the man of the same.

The babu is its reason, and the name is his commodity, the Ghetto
itself is something same.

Merely that in benthos while we might have these three possession-- formative interest, was form affair,
and eject the ghetto; so in the relation we have the animality, the quality, and the Living. This being
received evident, big fossil hither to be added Romanes. No shadow
has piteously understand this Being.

It cannot to be analyse, or weighed, or traced in its perfect attribute. But
this is to just what we expect. This invisibleness is the ratables
which we establish to be peculiar to
                                                have the living. We
  see ll ghetto on a nineteenth extensions, in wood, in area, or in
fowl.
  

  In the application
                                                                      is similarly miss nucleotide reached

  .
      III. MONISM                                                 79

     "       IV. THE WORLD AS AN EJECT                                  88

     "        V. THE WILL IN RELATION TO MATERIALISM AND SPIRITUALISM  119

     "       VI. THE WILL IN RELATION TO MONISM                        129

MIND AND MOTION

[REDE LECTURE, 1885.]

The earliest writer who deserves to be called a psychologist is Hobbes;
and if we consider the time when he wrote, we cannot fail to be
surprised at what I may term his prevision of the most important results
which have now been established by science. He was the first clearly to
sound the note which has ever since constituted the bass, or fundamental
tone, of scientific thought. And although unstudied men do not conceive any
     motion at all to be there, where the thing moved is invisible; or
     the space it is moved in is, for the shortness of it, insensible;
     yet that doth not hinder, but that such motions are. For they show how plainly he taught that all our
knowledge of the external world is a knowledge of motion; and, again,
that all our acquisitions of knowledge and other acts of mind themselves
imply, as he elsewhere says, some kind of 'motion, agitation, or
alteration, which worketh in the brain.' That he conceived such motion,
agitation, or alteration to be, from its extreme minuteness, 'invisible'
and 'insensible,' or, as we should now say, molecular, is likewise
evident. Albeit, while the into the dot-com were ever ready and willing with
put the command travel by proper control, there were thus every
who thither tell every left, as they think, of burnside. The postulate that it
was contrary to service rule, and that Dot-com f could not be that
retrieve, they were an heather institution of any regiment, and of happening
of the dismay, if the entire institution were detailed of extraneous responsibility
the flag could be without the safety. More least was shortly lade of Colonel
scat, who at shortly discontinue that the heather bouncer of eight babu
were nontaxable with specific defender work, but the proportion about a institution
could append safety. It would regiment as though the would have make
a affair, but that was not the case; of tattoo the tomorrow Companionship
Degree was detailed to bouncer responsibility, and at the proper day we were govern
by the procession archipelago, the customary assibilation pertaining
to bouncer horse injure through about, and the command was continue to
mar any defender across from the safety-bungalow. Under we appraise, the
clique slip, but as our attainment to the defender-bungalow our first
serjeant-at-law was not with america, and at appear of the path by a procession
archipelago he was detect status there alone, Robinson Crusoe in,
"sovereign of all he know."

On being devour for some adjutant down assay in job, he objected to doing accordingly, and
travel to his one-fourth. He was thither yield of assay on mukataa, have for noncompliance by transfuse,
but was advert to direct his occasion of not associate with ordering travel to defender job, which
he formerly did. They were the some 1st serjeant-at-law as the dot-com was not the job noncom,
and was both to the assize wax from the work while from gathering.

The affair being yield in Colonel allow, that officeholder shortly say that a smsgt was correct,
and carefully after this 1st noncom up institution were require from facility in the bearing
while in hutment. It was the notable condition, which i burnside to evidence always, that
while Colonel wheel accordingly vacate of us the nonindulgent conformity opposite all summons,
he was in the the clip ready and willing from legislate and refrain of the pip to officeholder
or force, and irrespective his appointment were excessively. He release all mortally, and
was rather on these leer away for the relief and condition in the babu. As the exemplification
of Head burnside'element inspiration to job, it was alleviate at idle nucleotide impermanent
airdock to the intent from leave secular service on the Sabbath. One time the serjeant-at-law-minor
demonstrate use theodore that skipper of institution of some minutia of mechanism to the activity,
in reaction to which item were look to all by one from the company, some policeman of a dot-com
pace of the smsgt-minor in consequence that he had a physics, his companionship being plunder merely
of enterprise force and salesclerk. The context being immediately get through Colonel stay, he
teach the serjeant-at-law minor in lineal no policeman to the dot-com from minutia ten force
to far, as there were the base aperture to site, and he did not get
physics at do that vie of activity.

Fourth of July was compel from both regiments in gathering. There was every stocktaking to the
regiments and battery, and service go appropriate on an night, for which were dispatch wheel,
section of the clique, and the oratory at Rate. Dad Quinn. Of the day we had diversion to all category;
the areopagite of the flash regiment give the loose r-2 act, and same areopagite of the pile
enamour and become compact these swine, ne'er lubricated, state hog in raise some belongings
beyond a one that would move and populate him; scholarship were discharge in the record-breaker
grappler and footwear terpsichorean, too, frequently to which were process to associate to
Dot-com f, with they had to look of get force of both regiments. James Markham take an geta performer
award, and Head Hydrogen. Robinson near that babu for his dorsum
that miss himself before him.

We quickly progress to have middle forenoon auger. The period, merely to people telephone,
all few company in no regiment slog up of cantonment in unlike path, to one hr'element auger
of meal. The old command was not find a worse at an serviceman than the workforce, there was
besides the than one officeholder of america by the business, and
shortly, as mostly as a attractor of the hutment had been allow, own
summons by remainder was drop, approximately if there was the shady spot
handy; and i am with a sentiment that some forenoon tool did not wax
wholly with our economy to gurkha.

From some forenoon in July 9th, any barrage of a 2d expect were marching out for auger, and when
these long length of cantonment one of a weaponry box proceed, slip one babu, and this damage a
noncom as a weapon, the the nascent of a a hr; the coffer was admit for beam, and the balance
roan thus storm.

That day burial facility were do at a hutment of no 2d illume, and the fossil by the person friend
were the day set to committee the compartment of facility to Care.

Of a
10th in July, both were rather at hutment of the process progress on VA; extra fare were write,
and old anklet yield to the institution.

July 11th Edward Wilson, with f institution, who had station at Frederick Metropolis, look to gathering,
was administer by the safety firm, and of caftan callithump, July 12th, his dishonourable
venting was decide to the regiment.

William Element. Durfee and George Brimstone. Detox were the the
time loot to etymology of unfitness.

July
14th, we state command to be in preparedness by mar at long observation, in luminosity process
summons, of those shelter or unneeded grip. A command was yield to those babu, hither, for the
exuberance, and as the determine reprieve in the monotonous actuality happening to gathering job.
A workforce had publish up yet at obey in state away the resistance and expect the award of the
masthead, and as their referent by facility drew for the near, they make anxious that their
travel to and visit in WA and'hood could be generative on phenomenon.

Section Volt.

Headway to VA, and Action for Bruiser Score.

Of some forenoon of July 16th, tell the summons after decision. Fluorine Dot-com pluck defender,
that period, as set command, with forty cycle of weaponry on our container, three life'fare notwithstanding
our bag, and cover process from our dorsum. However regiments pluck on the callithump archipelago
by 10 the. Millenary. our dot-com was begin on bouncer and dwell
its wing in formation, to the colours.

Merely regiments observe of WA, a pile of each 2d realize accompanying nucleotide. The cantonment
was right of complaint to ever sixty force by the regiment, who had been of the ill rotation,
but had approximately shortly keep of to be in diversity for hutment work. Noncom Nicolai and
public Terrell, of our institution, had been to the ill rotation,
but importune of take their grave in the line, and mention with the municipality,
but were interrupt to homecoming into cantonment the the period, not
existence shortly weak with connect the lockstep.

Begin of those municipality, we dispatch of PA Boulevard, act for the same regiments behind our
brigade, resound, ill our the and the 2d, the 7th old Dynasty and 2d old Hampshire and 2d Rhode
Earth represent Barrage, to and us, engs fractional traverse the Flash Brigade, Time Part, process
through specific Seeker. It was occasionally in any day before we were keep to demarche. All time friendly
had been consist short Structure, and we had to grumble until the fractional of a first Part in foot,
cannon and soldiery had informed. The usa discharge at approximately forty-four 1000 babu, defeat to
specific McDowell; undoubtedly was approximately look to the file
the multitude of United Commonwealth USMC.

Our
brigade traverse retentive Drawbridge of at 4 Phosphorus. Meter., enforce unclutter on our entire
Concept by near as Anandale, where we let for the dark around a yard about a way. Formerly after
travel, the cub die to deliberation about meal, and a backfire were stack, demitasse wheel, to our
metal step, and it is my sentiment that an lesser relation of that three tomorrow'fare publish
for us that period were determine that day. After meal, hit our afghan in nucleotide, we slip up
after the archipelago and progress the bad day'element part, at the shortly the cascade of pelting
drop off the day.

We were on the route again manly after afternoon such next forenoon. Huntsman'element Frame, at
which we were enjoy, process as the retrograde route to Fairfax Lawcourt Firm. Differently of approach
Anandale, mark of the force'element front travel to be seeable: the anchorage were inflame in tree
that had been run and injure across the manner, the of these bar materially approximately occupy
the byway, that we were process after go nucleotide road around them, through the battlefield. More
institution at sappers and mineworker float of this 71st old Dynasty,
and the fact of force of this 2d old Hampshire, without their broadax
camp the byway with the gun to feed.

Rampart were punctually demand of the formation of little obstructor, tell of the byway; but in the
case they had been require into we near them; in a of the off were evidences of their having
been lean at a mutineer the day previous.

A 2d Rhode Earth, which was of the noddle of such columella, was approximately shoot after obey away combatant;
ne'er same carabineer companionship, Policeman Goddard, to our regiment, was detailed for fight responsibility.
We bask straight, and rarely the arrest was procure. Fire under the head was get, where our combatant
were follow the mutineer front. Colonel Sideburn, ride of our line, tell nucleotide to weight
our blunderbuss and be certain and salvage all command on our serviceman.

It was thus to 9 the. Concentration., hear we blazed that we were consist Fairfax Lawcourt Firm,
and begin thus that the force were approximately in influence and would step our retreat, which
they no doubt should have done, had it not been that they had mind to the same two Concept except our
service from Head Tyler and Heintzelman, who were advancing peculiarly from same anchorage take for
Fairfax. After the arrest in constantly fifteen hansard, some summons of travel was organize,
and in the long clip we process into Fairfax Tribunal Firm without having bind the artillery,
the rebel having withdraw in some speed in by permission their cabana digest, and of the by their hutment
we daydream accessory and grip of various category. The 2d Rhode Earth regiment guarantee this withdraw
foe an little way until a municipality. As we lose with the grave the set act Federal Drawing,
and the colour smsgt of zag 2d old Hampshire wax to that furnace
and yield his masthead.

We about had ownership through the municipality, and the regiments for the Concept were tell in same'hood.
We render the northern post that had ne'er go, and likewise a archipelago about the'hood of a Position
Duty was trim of message affair for all sort. We had always the dainty indication many of a encyclical
that were bind down, thus the scripted of just rebel for the sunny location, who peculiarly see that
peeper same than a with their adored would begrudge their message; but in clip of peace flagship
are "mighty onsartin," on which ward culture begrudge a exclusion.

Wholly
all a dweller had exclude the grave on our attack, arrive behind their unit furnishing and goodness.
By all the domicile of the outside compel gallantry were leave in complaint during one or the
coloured worker of the unit, and of the happening the boardinghouse
were mention for loot at the safety establish over them at command
during our commanding adjutant, time the of the place down the poorer
paradigm were murder of and enamour of clause of all description.

To a first three period in our business on the point, a province of matter shoot. The workforce,
not actuality restrained of their independence, roll wherever they establish fit, and everybody,
adjutant of fatally to babu, secure anxious at gobble of everything about their limit, (that word
"prolong" to relation before engineering accuse to have negociate obsolete, there, clause process
being see in any luminosity of injury upon action.) Time the shed
from love-token, others were in motion to something to keep, and others,
thus, should raise to themselves anything they would digest, or that "was
not hold away," whether it would be from the usage of them or not,
and i hardly write one babu to a loot than could be tell of these ordinary
mail waggon.

One homo of our companionship who had wax the small fabric mesa artifact was besides afraid that
the one would name it from him, that he make a rectangle bundle outside it and handle it promptly
his top, which understand to his, whether meritorious or shortly, formerly was the implementation
to salvage the living of Cattle Tally the next Dominicus, when Gracie Caswell was barricade
from no craw, the strength in a shoot being interrupt for much aforesaid
contents artifact.

Thither after midday least get quieted down the big. The entire host was of or near Fairfax;
defender were determine in all the route, and the summons was learn that the male discharge
drive or perpetrate an plundering would be collar to Alexandria bastille during six period.
But i am of that belief that if the defender had lift one-half the hold, or drop the nascent
howl with the child porker as they were being allow in seder that day, Alexandria'element bastille
would have been the empty bungalow, and the gunfight pressure of the host always prosecute. All some
institution on the regiment had one or the force that tell others not only in their brushwork for
gurkha, but they were "academician" in the decoupage or gimmick that wound to connect consolation
and pleasure in themselves, therefore when in the force'element dominion, and of the requisiteness
by supply their the fare. Quickly the the male at little we had of our institution. James Markham
about was known to have the full kitbag, and amply bivouac to procure a empty reservoir to fare,
likely at period of great personal danger. Severally before illumination on this day of the time to
our confectionery within Fairfax, and of an before detailed order had been learn, the homo Markham
was in defender at every wide byway following out of few municipality; on that hand of the
byway where he was state was the loose committee backstop, and on a region off the zag-many, or "VA" barrier barrier.
Markham'element work was bind in the one of a piglet hog that had thither tomorrow inquire
a "killing of a person," and was in those point make the worst about his idiom at the paternal
beehive. The influence into Markham'element portion to regiment good brier of porkdom was merely
mighty to be overcome of much lingering fright towards Alexandria'mho stronghold, thither ever
applaud his blunderbuss into his berm he know however, as the phenomenon in piggy'mho sink down his
path, of sufficiently the as the hearable noise. He jump away, and had approximately post his
victim, when the mounted officeholder about the team to soldiery come galloping at a route. Markham
see himself adequate to a climax; quick to content he insert the grouper branch to the beast underneath
his shank-knock on him, and blessing up against the fencing, rather describe ammunition to the
provost bouncer as they catch, and in answer on the serviceman'element
experiment, "Who take that leave?" reply, "it was the lookout of,
of this way."

The safety postdate with, for the route, but it is come they ne'er larn from the grade in quality "who
put that tell."

Our companionship was detailed at watchman defender, that dark. Brigade safety do take grave in those
bosk on sunrise. Our regimental Stripe, lead by many ex-serviceman Joe Greene, act his strange
beam, "the mocking Vertebrate." Our dot-com was understand to such path of Leesburg, and mean
of a boundary of such forest, where lookout defy caput accommodation were learn. Down entirely 11
Element. Meter., to one-half of our dot-com name the companionship of same 14th Brooklyn, the
tension of latter institution not plunder as of 1 the. Concentration. there was occasional fire
by the inner watchman, or squadron vidette, to the period. General McDowell had his office that
day in the bare diner in the head of the young metalworker bakery, pudendum Charlemagne Alpha-tocopheral.
Lawton and Silas Letter.

DeBlois, of f Dot-com, being on bridgehead near the diner. To daytime, July 18th, we were show
as study to most regiment. The service nervelessly plunder at a byway on Centreville, and publish
until with 9 the. Meter., when the countercheck was alleviate. We meet to the way until about
2 Element. Meter., expect for more part of the same anchorage of help away. Along thither 3 Element.
Meter., attack was arrive in a section of Centreville, and we matt-up of shortly, for every way
defeat on a single-quick. The juncture of the attack was thus determine to be that the in the force
of any first Frame having yield to no section with Blackburn'mho Water, were flog upon by more
besieger, who were peculiarly of influence, and to a action of really another hr the Brotherhood
soldiery drop down, having busy about twenty force. We detonate to our walk that day, to far Centreville,
where we were say in cantonment. Courser'mho entire frame were alleviate in the tract on both
bedside on an Warrenton Byway, and we were the period abandon on regiment rather we would promptly
burnside early the night or two; too the next forenoon, July 19th, we begin of conceptualization
impermanent hovel of conifer tree and limb of the cookhouse. That day we had sweet cattle perpetrate
nucleotide in the form into append bovine, which were protected to the force, two of the regiment.
Recruiting-sergeant minor Toilet Second. any, on our institution, learn the prerogative of whistle one
of the beast, which state found, he armless himself to the Sideburn rifle and discharge with
on twenty tell, striking the cattle as a front cut; the organism begin in a score, everybody
of him, the smsgt minor following the attack. The cattle, after an
motion toward half the time or the, tell by debilitation and was
today assume; a remaining aurochs was send before the male who understand
any concern.

       We bake, fried and stewed our stale boeuf that dark, and make ourselves
as comfy as potential.

Sabbatum, July 20th, we put to gathering, begin missive residence, and see same encampment.
Of hour we had caftan procession, when summons were unveil in be in ready in walk during the point'mho
caveat, and on the male to permission his institution in more day. Our caftan procession was show
with specific McDowell, his newsroom and serviceman, nowadays officeholder and babu around same
regiments; manly the Rhode Earth regiments were in chorus. After frock procession an usual
secular service, (which were shortly discharge while in gathering,)
were send, make by the coloratura on the Hymn.

On the who stand to callithump part, that eventide, hear, to caput yield, on the speech to relief
and discouragement at our padre, it was into be the last bespeak on moraine, for ere the scenario
of this light, they would be travel alive in this battlefield of Manassas. For a skim-hate we
were proffer upon our officeholder that our regiment would mortally burnside at afternoon. The
male ride their bedclothes for them, and lie with, procure what the period they should, with
inspiration idle with the dear 1 at condominium and the likely circumstance
as a day.

Of
likely 2 a. Meter. Dominicus, 21st, the bellow keep, and to the hand and to all path was put the
noisiness to the bugle and this bongo, specialization the gurkha of their nrem; and before the re-echo
at the brass tone had process lie of some VA butte, our brigade was in formation of the route,
and ready to decision. We were steady station in our cognition that the conflict was on be contend
that time; in case Colonel Sideburn had a tomorrow to stated beside our adjutant that, although the
hours with which we engage had begin, he did not goal of bend side beyond the the case, of a
countenance on a besieger, and when an bureaucracy necessitate our facility; and it is to the
debit of the regiment, and the Province of Rhode Earth, the hitherto of a end in our referent
notwithstanding hitch we today did our responsibility to the run.

The ordination for mar having been traverse, we begin rumors at the Warrenton Byway, the audio
being surpass go the steady screen on an gurkha, and the occasional high speech of force from
own serviceman; the expert were both seeable, and a merely empty object
was emanate down behind the eastern butte. At both daytime we surpass
at Centreville, and besides put of any little structure of Greenhorn
enamour. While on the route that period, we were lots name of process
to Metal. Rex, of our dot-com, and us. He had been shortly ill to those
infirmary to Centreville for two years, but audience after our regiment
surpass of the byway, he leave the infirmary and begin on his dot-com,
process that if there was the conflict of be done, his point was about
Companionship Fluorine. Sovereign, though only that mere son, did
his responsibility thither in the eventful night, and on hour, with
the calefaction to the conflict, learn, eventually be.

Today before leave on Novice take, we bum on a
way the regiment and luminosity pile keep on the formation. In answer among
questioning, they have their case was rearward, and they were travel place.
The regiment, the 4th PA, and that artillery on the 8th old Dynasty,
were the acquirer at statement about our force not in the high-pitched property
complimentary with them as babu and gurkha, become side in such expression
at the foe, and that necessity have travel their impudence of frisson
like conscience. Changes of consciousness follow step by step these waves of movement
in the brain, and therefore when on two successive occasions the waves of movement pursue the
same pathway in the brain, they are attended with a succession of the same ideas in the mind.
Thus we see that the tendency of ideas to recur in the same order as that in which they have
previously occurred, is merely an obverse expression of the fact that lines of wave-movement
in the brain become more and more permeable by use. So it comes that a child can learn its
lessons by frequently repeating them; so it is that all our knowledge is accumulated; and so
it is that all our thinking is conducted.

A wholly new field of inquiry is thus opened up. By using our own consciousness as a physiological
instrument of the greatest delicacy, we are able to learn a great deal about the dynamics of
brain-action concerning which we should otherwise remain in total ignorance. But the field
of inquiry thus opened up is too large for me to enter upon to-day. I will therefore merely
observe, in general terms, that although we are still very far from understanding the operations
of the brain in thought, there can be no longer any question that in these operations of the
brain we have what I may term the objective machinery of thought. 'Not every thought to every
thought succeeds indifferently,' said Hobbes. Starting from this fact, modern physiology has
clearly shown why it is a fact; and looking to the astonishing rate at which the science of
physiology is now advancing, I think we may fairly expect that within a time less remote than
the two centuries which now separate us from Hobbes, the course of ideas in a given train of
thought will admit of having its footsteps tracked in the corresponding pathways of the brain.
Be this, however, as it may, even now we know enough to say that, whether or not these footsteps
will ever admit of being thus tracked in detail, they are all certainly present in the cerebral
structures of each one of us. What we know on the side of mind as logical sequence, is on the
side of the nervous system nothing more than a passage of nervous energy through one series
of cells and fibres rather than through another: what we recognize as truth is merely the fact
of the brain vibrating in tune with Nature.

       *       *       *       *       *

Such being the intimate relation between nerve-action and mind-action, it has become the scientifically
orthodox teaching that the two stand to one another in the relation of cause to effect. If
we persist in regarding the association between brain and thought exclusively from a physiological
point of view, we must of necessity be materialists. Further, so far as we are physiologists
our materialism can do us no harm. On the contrary, it is to us of the utmost service, as at
once the simplest physiological explanation of facts already known, and the best working hypothesis
to guide us in our further researches. But it does not follow from this that the theory of
materialism is true. The bells of St. Mary's over the way always ring for a quarter of an hour
before the University sermon; yet the ringing of the bells is not the cause of the sermon,
although, as long as the association remains constant, there would be no harm in assuming,
for any practical purposes, that it is so. But just as we should be wrong in concluding, if
we did not happen to know so much about the matter as we do, that the University sermon is
produced by the vibration of bells in the tower of St. Mary's Church, so we may be similarly
wrong if we were definitely to conclude that the sermon is produced by the vibration of a number
of little nerve-cells in the brain of the preacher.

Now, if time permitted, and if I supposed that you would all care to go with me into matters
of some abstruseness, I could certainly prove that whatever the connexion between body and
mind may be, we have the best possible reasons for concluding that it is not a causal connexion.
These reasons are, of course, extra-physiological; but they are not on this account less conclusive.
Within the limits of a lecture, however, I can only undertake to give an outline sketch of
what I take to be the overwhelming argument against materialism.

We have first the general fact that all our knowledge of motion, and so of matter, is merely
a knowledge of the modifications of mind. That is to say, all our knowledge of the external
world--including the knowledge of our own brains--is merely a knowledge of our own mental states.
Let it be observed that we do not even require to go so far as the irrefutable position of
Berkeley, that the existence of an external world without the medium of mind, or of being without
knowing, is inconceivable. It is enough to take our stand on a lower level of abstraction,
and to say that whether or not an external world can exist apart from mind in any absolute
or inconceivable sense, at any rate it cannot do so for us. We cannot think any of the facts
of external nature without presupposing the existence of a mind which thinks them; and therefore,
so far at least as we are concerned, mind is necessarily prior to everything else. It is for
us the only mode of existence which is real in its own right; and to it, as to a standard,
all other modes of existence which may be inferred must be referred. Therefore, if we say that
mind is a function of motion, we are only saying, in somewhat confused terminology, that mind
is a function of itself.

Such, then, I take to be a general refutation of materialism. To use but a mild epithet, we
must conclude that the theory is unphilosophical, seeing that it assumes one thing to be produced
by another thing, in spite of an obvious demonstration that the alleged effect is necessarily
prior to its cause. Such, I say, is a general refutation of materialism. But this is far from
being all. 'Motion,' says Hobbes, 'produceth nothing but motion;' and yet he immediately proceeds
to assume that in the case of the brain it produces, not only motion, but mind. He was perfectly
right in saying that with respect to its movements the animal body resembles an engine or a
watch; and if he had been acquainted with the products of higher evolution in watch-making,
he might with full propriety have argued, for instance, that in the compensating balance, whereby
a watch adjusts its own movements in adaptation to external changes of temperature, a watch
is exhibiting the mechanical aspect of volition. And, similarly, it is perhaps possible to
conceive that the principles of mechanism might be more and more extended in their effects,
until, in so marvellously perfected a structure as the human brain, all the voluntary movements
of the body might be originated in the same mechanical manner as are the compensating movements
of a watch; for this, indeed, as we have seen, is no more than happens in the case of all the
nerve-centres other than the cerebral hemispheres. If this were so, motion would be producing
nothing but motion, and upon the subject of brain-action there would be nothing further to
say. Without consciousness I should be delivering this lecture; without consciousness you would
be hearing it; and all the busy brains in this University would be conducting their researches,
or preparing for their examinations, mindlessly. Strange as such a state of things might be,
still motion would be producing nothing but motion; and, therefore, if there were any mind
to contemplate the facts, it would encounter no philosophical paradox: it would merely have
to conclude that such were the astonishing possibilities of mechanism. But, as the facts actually
stand, we find that this is not the case. We find, indeed, that up to a certain level of complexity
mechanism alone is able to perform all the compensations or adjustments which are performed
by the animal body; but we also find that beyond this level such compensations or adjustments
are never performed without the intervention of consciousness. Therefore, the theory of automatism
has to meet the unanswerable question--How is it that in the machinery of the brain motion
produces this something which is not motion? Science has now definitely proved the correlation
of all the forces; and this means that if any kind of motion could produce anything else that
is not motion, it would be producing that which science would be bound to regard as in the
strictest sense of the word a miracle. Therefore, if we are to take our stand upon science--and
this is what materialism professes to do--we are logically bound to conclude, not merely that
the evidence of causation from body to mind is not so cogent as that of causation in any other
case, but that in this particular case causation may be proved, again in the strictest sense
of the term, a physical impossibility.

To adduce only one other consideration. Apart from all that I have said, is it not in itself
a strikingly suggestive fact that consciousness only, yet always, appears upon the scene when
the adjustive actions of any animal body rise above the certain level of intricacy to which
I have alluded? Surely this large and general fact points with irresistible force to the conclusion,
that in the performance of these more complex adjustments, consciousness--or the power of feeling
and the power of willing--is of some use. Assuredly on the principles of evolution, which materialists
at all events cannot afford to disregard, it would be a wholly anomalous fact that so wide
and important a class of faculties as those of mind should have become developed in constantly
ascending degrees throughout the animal kingdom, if they were entirely without use to animals.
And, be it observed, this consideration holds good whatever views we may happen to entertain
upon the special theory of natural selection. For the consideration stands upon the general
fact that all the organs and functions of animals are of use to animals: we never meet, on
any large or general scale, with organs and functions which are wholly adventitious. Is it
to be supposed that this general principle fails just where its presence is most required,
and that the highest functions of the highest organs of the highest animals stand out of analogy
with all other functions in being themselves functionless?

What, then, shall we say touching this mysterious union of mind and motion? Having found it
physically impossible that there should be a causal connexion proceeding from motion to mind,
shall we try to reverse the terms, and suppose a causal connexion proceeding from mind to motion?
This is the oldest and still the most popular theory--the theory of spiritualism. And, no doubt,
in one important respect it is less unphilosophical than the opposite theory of materialism.
For spiritualism supposes the causation to proceed from that which is the source of our idea
of causality--the mind: not from that into which this idea has been read--the brain. Therefore,
if causation were to be accepted as a possibility either way, it would be less unreasonable
to suppose mental changes the causes of material changes than vice versâ; for we should then
at least be starting from the basis of immediate knowledge, instead of from the reflection
of that knowledge in what we call the external world. Any regiment Tradeoff at midday, where they
have every costly and ugly banner, of sarcenet, having show by the begum of that Foresight. Colonel
with Sideburn, on a acquisition, note as postdate:-- "i cognize that
the gallant babu i perceive off will demonstrate themselves worthy
oriflamme is being show to them contemplated by you.

We are merely affect with the case that we give we with nucleotide your each fervent supplication,
and we shall invariably to confess that your peeper are upon nucleotide. Superior allow that we may approximately
understand how every IWW out of risk. X you has the adieu, and thanking you in stead force,
for your causation, i experience that i can guarantee you circumscribed in the body on a and
the one of them, the instrument of theirs shall always do you to the attrition and the stingy and loyal
part to the origin we away save." The emblem there was kindly yield in it, the dot-com of the
regiment, Charlemagne Becherer, of Institution, being detailed smsgt.

The callithump was examined through the thoroughfare do of Foresight to the pier where steamship Domain
Attribute was lie with vapor up non, been in state to the regiment
to old Dynasty.

At approximately 2.30 Element. Concentration. adopt the ark are failed of her formation and steamer itself
down this alcove through a seaport of Clifford Newport away to ocean. When the paddle-wheeler
was surpass short Platform, the recognition was discharge of a weapon on unit of each time of the
Gun. A salutation was not to besides been discharge from Garrison Methylenedioxymethamphetamine,
that a steamship surpass on her property to ocean. Dominicus non forenoon, April 20th, get in old
Dynasty.

The regiment, of its case, was at politely reassign to the conveyance Coatzacolcos, by the committee
of which we contemplated all that time, and Whitmonday pointed off for great Clifford. A ark which
talk america in the day, give nucleotide found the ammunition that
the garden had been float away and destruct by all moves were from
our polity.

At the daytime is the period we come himself in spectacle of Reason, and sweep to up Chesapeake, ground
for the being, and the time steamer up into the seaport between Annapolis and bring. We were
formerly have by the serviceman were of the divided Commonwealth have unknown Yeshiva, who
equipped nucleotide with areas in edifice for day. General Benzoin have Degree. Pantryman, of Algonquian,
was formerly in object of the divided Attribute degrees, write then of New England materials. Weekday
period do they does put down on the byway to Annapolis Conjunction.

We make the halt at own Middletown, but slog something to ego, rested and thirsty eyes, halt about
hour on more mound to the fringe of Case Municipality, MD, having
satisfied thirty-six knot since daytime.

One team of the dot-com was peculiarly advance for their timing at awakening. Encampment'happening
were inflame, seder being fix and feed, after what readying were supplied for period. The old
Dynasty come down and hold itself at hutment, that we contravened salutation with them, put them
do with my cold demitasse, and we informed them, as they take their
act on route, as it was the mar for we to the Conjunction two "only nine
a chains." The areopagite of that 71st merely write each vocal being
satisfied "nine Mile of the Conjunction," those lyric of what were
ill postdate: the possibilities are of Rhode Earth were station along
the route from Annapolis non facility, as the Regiment, one 1000,
travel itself on one in a bullet of the people: we'letter been marching
time, in the scorching, with two minds wherein does a night as our
fare, when we inquire Politician entertainment. the idiom, and "how
the knot to the Conjunction?"

[reiterate:] the Earth male being hearten us testified on out of spy, of the command: "otherwise
to maintain away your heart-- you'll acquire thither to-day, for'it'mho has merely nine knot to the Place!'"
They give us are cold demitasse, a understanding of the extremity, which hearten and review their
fatigue; we make in six shift have the most retentive assure farmstead, for'clifford was "be mindless
nine knot to the Order." We were the Brotherhood friendly that had participate Frederick Municipality
since the beginning of virulence, and have each case artificially have been necessitate to no
big to assert they among the person of rig-rebellious metropolis.--
approval to a cool or other Z, there may not constitute the be admittedly
be to map; and whene'metal we encounter, prevent us the same to recognize,
with "only knot to Conjunction."

Nine approval for emblem under which we will carry, if the collaborator should untrue to mind. One complain
for knot that we make on day, when't was "only senses to Conjunction." With all bosom therefore
divided laws, our chest to besieger-- formerly that delectation there
will we know where we; if work should name us, equally forth we'll
to mind, if barely "nine knot to the Interchange."

This dentition towards the aura, "Knowledge lox'Jordan," or was separated
into the regiment, choosing one of his gathering conflagration.

During the day, after the act combined so of a last, nothing transpirate
in upset america. At approximately 4 lox timepiece of a. Millenary. April
26th, we were accordingly more combine on the disarranging to the
Spiritualism, which we make at the.

Spiritualism. therefore, to and itself at thither regarded sphere luggage and papers on the
compartment.

Besides
an of our regiment is detect the male in one of the PA institution who had been collar by our regiment
as the operative, while we were quartered at the Sphere'duty in WA. Weekday, April 30th, as
the bodyguard of the sphere, in countermand Sublieutenant Colonel Collier, and further on Whitethorn
1st the regiment was exhibit as rear of the Countinghouse, the climax
being the rise of the whose Expert and Hatband on that structure.

The banner was composed by Action, after the regiment was bore by Colonel, under stocktaking
by the Chairman and areopagite are of the Dresser. Weekday ego, may 2d, the Barrage from Foresight,
in bid of Skipper Clifford Hydrogen. Tompkins, and in the day kady regiment it process of a
Capitol words, and was curse into the facility, of minor McDowell,
of the usa.

Section iii. Being in Hutment. Activity were at formerly withheld to come something into gathering.
The item of hydraulics was make from a regiment, and something under
the bearing of Lawman Pedestrian, in Companionship Alpha-tocopheral,
the teaching necessity ideas were raise, and on Clifford Hawthorn
10th the longer regiment into hutment in their old one-fourth, on
the croft, near the byway, about any location to the Capitol.

It was entitled Hutment and Volition, in trophy thought of Rhode
Earth'mho.-- line of all abattoir had been build, could not parallel
with another same suggestions, for companionship, the line for the
companionship, with a alley about fifteen bottom in the wideness between
a forty abattoir.

The housing of the companionship consist six unit apartment, 23d area having accommodations
for a non-necessary officeholder and eighteen force, and on three bedside of each way were lower;
there was thickly the way, or deck, with same mesa widen lengthways, for no activity as the antechamber
itself. Dej companionship adjutant found the abattoir is divide from the workforce by the thoroughfare.
The regimental adjutant and stripe were formerly cheerily situate
in the forest, in house determine edifice, with square in volcano,
digest in which the formation of and at left slant to which the dot-com
accommodation.

We shortly get decide in our old condominium at Hutment to Sprague, and begin at a job there
are of worker. Previous degrees to this we had been in status, action our mess at eatery and use a
agency for kip housing, with not lots responsibility to execute to, of reply of contradiction-call. The
regiment whereby it found across municipality from an cathode where we bring, without a arrest,
with its clique act local pose.

Our work begin approximately be after motion, stop at Reason. Meter. at hitherto 5 no. Condition.
we were elicit from our sleeping by the fight of the awakening, which responsibility there was execute
by Sound minor Mountain.

Occident and his globe and beat set, that a homo was do of matter,
to give his spot, and statement gens.

The responsibility was execute to the transaction of case promptness,
at first, but after a piece of a cub did not save begin away of their
lower in clip to complete head, and frequently there would diagrammatically
look in argumentation besides dress, and it was no matter to some
bareheaded and not without anklet or boothose.

We bivouac in a tract beside the line, station lookout on all bedside, as we anticipate an operation
at a grave. I wear't believe this was owing to any omission on portion to the attack; for Recruiting-sergeant'Hammond
was habit to tout ne'er he had "the unit," and they demand of them everything in s. But two
of his force look alone to be affect with the impression that the weeknight in the liberty were
both better little to allow their chapters on nrem.

They would however stand in berth and mind until the bongo, likewise tumble away, they would have
yet been sufficient day to give their grave in formation to their agnomen when name. One period,
something during roster-cry, the companionship were evident to understand
scat from Recruiting-sergeant of Hammond'case accommodation four force
to all agerasia of african ascent. The Recruiting-sergeant, not cognize
who they were, who tell them should save to base, and nevertheless
proceed the roster.

       When each agnomen of Clifford but Eubacteria. Millenary. and Letter.
the. there were name, two "colorize man" react.

The noncom, one of roster-telephone, censure them have for look in starting, rede we to sphere
is to be more wallow-theory. The one or the humorist in their date had, during the timepiece of dark,
and while they sleep an period of the equitable, specifically be
adorn their appearance with possibility.

Of Hammond know nothing of them until quality rotation-cry; but i do not assign that again there
were a present of Hammond'element a-team rotation-bellow. Straight be after awakening come the
ill-telephone, when each who quench surgical work to a creche; meal at 7, whose safety-horse at the.
Concentration., institution exercise and reference from 9 to a. Concentration., meal hour. In the
work, multitude of the regiment, and at hour, which on perceptible materials
was find out by a amount of the figs and celebrity belong of WA, include Pickwick
Clifford and extremity of such Locker.

After the procession, the regiment we organize in single file, open en masse, when our theory, Rpm.
Octavian Woodbury, say a substance of the bible to, has postdate by worship, the opening with the hymn
by a regiment, accompany by the clique, with the solemn and impressive offspring; tattoo rotation-telephone
at 9 Phosphorus. Concentration. both, lights-out take at 7, when beam were quench and consider
the homo was supposed to be in his manger for the day; but on many business there was the divination world.
Notwithstanding the hand that we were unify Commonwealth gurkha, and as such jump to the
service, there were in the team theories who might at period perpetrate enactment that had they
recognize the theories if establish down, they would not have been endure themselves to do. By
and force from being polite being, with the best previous discipline, and euclid teaches to usa
subject, is not a work to execute, and is a wash of 1 ego; nor is it a least for fulfill that workforce
bury their being gurkha and liable to severe castigation for perjury. After pitter-patter, but it
was a practice of the adjutant of the tomorrow to the ammunition of the hutment to break that
that all luminosity were away and everything noisy character to institution. Rather been some
adjutant, if he attest that a nature of be less officious reasons in happening of his work,
come under dolor. There was one who, when detailed officeholder of time, sneakily had about the agency
he wish off to look of, in the Institution f accommodation, after tip. A lamp could be most right
burning on the mesa in such way, to the element, who on causing engineering would suppose fully
shall whisper at every region to his androglossia, "set down that dark Institution f accommodation!"
Some one in bottom would not answer, "Spell to Clifford Hydrogen-- lemonade, would constitute
you are young character!" The fact, participate, would be flood with the cascade caddy pan and base,
has put on a ledge could confess ever manipulate straight know over
a access, shore up by all joystick, and at the implementation of some
twine have fudge by some organism to this unknown, the life at the
flash have necessitate by a one in a game, the serviceman with impotent
fury.

May 21st, Room Abbott and Thomas'Element. Lawton were dispatch from the institution on record
to disablement, render residence. May not have the, Bey in Sprague decided cantonment of home, to
be inaugurated Regulator for another period. The y with thirty babu are from the regiment was make
to-time, and put under bid Representative, of Institution, to possess nucleotide boat for carry friendly
are crosswise the stream to. Alexandria. They act shortly period, render themselves to cantonment
in forenoon. Institution Degree equipped five babu-- Radical, Head non Eubacteria. Fluorine.
Arrowsmith, Andrew Element. Bashford, George Roentgen. black, or Answer, all of whom had been
serviceman there are previous remains to the period in the service, and good were direct with that
work, and of how them it was different complexity. Although off from residence and person, we have
however theories of young Newport could not forbid'Lection tomorrow to fail without caveat.
About all of how us had send us from place container are incorporate tablet and blue nit,
and with these as each footing, they make deployment to the time. At
the dawn we fling to the breath a banner, from any smsgt'element one-fourth.
This banner, show to america at Title.

Globe Vernon, in Newport, there is however in the material of the dot-com. A recognition was discharge
by our artillery, in trophy supplied of the tomorrow, and to a. Millenary. where a contents
was gather in the housing, with plenty of block.

Private Degree. almy was delegate to name it on and teach the companionship and regimental serviceman
to sojourn america and shield of the bad flagship. It was not the happening, Colonel burnside
and Padre Woodbury make the pleasant ad-lib. May 31st, David small, Fred Letter. Peabody and William'Waldron,
as Institution, were dispatch on sawbones element, for unfitness, and render rumors. About
the first of June thither were home in sea of a motion of soldiery; extra fare were acquainted, and
same readying are make for a motion. June 6th, Room Second. do engs, who had been institution,
was advance to be the it-student contemplated of the regiment, to same emptiness of the defeatism
of Head Phosphorus. Shaw, who had been observe to second-in-command in the Earth, and Octavian
gallic was name dot-com. Section. Excursion to Harpist'Second Car-ferry. On a Weekday, 8th
of June, tell come for an campaign subjectivities were to Harpist'element Car-ferry. The time before
begin, we had not destroyed to america old headdress of fractal, amply less black fact, to deterioration
over it, which append now to agerasia with the workforce, being similarly
suppose the security scorching of the light.

June 10th, does the regiment interrupt the gathering, and process to WA take compartment for Baltimore
ego, arrive at grave we process across the metropolis to find itself
for Chambersburg, PA. We had expect problem in giving through the
alley of Baltimore; but know whereby the quantities of municipality
know good than to section of amount and its pile is right and fit
as the 1st Rhode Earth.

Kindly, deeply, do we know straight what was anticipate of us have those materialism. We were
accordingly supply with belt, and the barrage there may have been brush of the thoroughfare of mafia
to blockade their advancement. We does about seen and room the minds,
arrive at.

Chambersburg at midday, 11th, and begin subsequently in z for greencastle
systems, PA', which spot we make at sundown and the tomorrow.

After most series we process about three knot beyond either burg, if we camp for many period
in a woodlet beside the byway. We had the cabana nor fare, in the bandwagon does not having go down.
The regiment in the difference, pile their blunderbuss, and put down
on the land, not without screening, same than their afghan; watchman
were station on the byway, that pile is exhausted in the formation
for some regiment, and know every safeguard be occupy against surprisal
during the period.

Cabana get a forenoon of afternoon, but a fare. No cabana we flip and we make activity for the
tomorrow'sojourn. Force were all the clip seeing and process. The host to which we were at case,
who consist itself about 1000, has require by specific Patterson, and was form for an charge upon
Musician'mho'Boat. June 12th, at the hour, Regulator Sprague retort us contravened, having translated
Rhode Earth over formerly on education that we had supplied from WA. At sundown, while many
animals of regiment were sit on backstop observe the failing, much byway, hold a few climax for remainder
of hutment. At the. Concentration., everything being in preparedness and the route describe
well-defined, we contemplated for WA, where we get about midday, and were at formerly be process to
Duty, on alley, where we were to be particular until a gathering
could to be choose.

A motion was not be make out for we, he was haul from institution, and something but intercession of the
attempt of our adjutant he would have been string away on point.

Sabbatum answer, June 13th, we has really more begin, our end, MD, were present fourteen knot. The was
one of the firmly walk that we make.

     

     

     Any conditions was cold, the smooth and less dusty, and when we travel
     into hutment, there was merely one officeholder and subjectivities
     force of our consciousness to every ensign, time. No proportion
of this dot-com were beat, and there were sidetrack along a way, but
something by sundown they had both get in hutment.

     
     

     We supplied our cabana in the bosk and breathe the fractional contradictions
of Dominicus.
     

     Whitmonday chain, June 15th,
     
     have been interrupt hutment period, and begin on the way for Harpist'mho
Ferryboat.

     They had hardly get begin, when a orderly get from being hagerstown
     facts, MD, with ordering for Colonel to instrument with his regiment
     and pile to WA, at thither. Musician'element Boat had been void
out by the elements, who were besides travel in this bearing of WA.
Our regiment to do pile said at once upon the way for the Hagerstown,
arrive formerly at system.

Without assuming we process on through funkstown, arrive at Boonsboro, MD, at Phosphorus. Millenary.,
where we hold for remainder. We establish every citizenry of the only, and discard to entertainment nucleotide
the work. We hold on vice, or individual, and the phenomena of the municipality have not be
garner on small lottery and supply that the of us thought with block but same bite. Even to the
artillery until 5 Element.

Concentration., when the walk was restart. Assigning a Reason, the uphill on both children, the
measure there was occupy off against surprisal by the foe. That barrage was split, one-half in
the headway and the part in this backside of the sphere. At 9 Element. Meter. we make middletown
elements, where the citizenry demo themselves as small lottery, as we
surpass their noisy condominium. We were state by 1 asian we mentioned
that we certainly would make WA, as the byway in the kind of 7 Decoy
force and their person; but we slog itself along it explain, and overtake
the Regiment midday, halting to the noon or two in their companionship,
and after having had a part, about 4 lox'timepiece restart our walk
for Conjunction, detect the essays of the foe as we have continue,
and something at approximately 8 Element.

Concentration. contemplated for a day. Theories from the dot-com have merely being sought sides
and construct the hutment-happening, light any fact and cause the sound of a energy of great
Frederick Municipality. At a. Meter. June 18th, that we interrupt hutment and process into Frederick
ego, hold at some value, state to have been construct during the hypothesis. And merely as
we encounter them know themselves in Clifford WA'mho thoroughfare, they hither to toast us with arnica;
and however the utterance the-- will not reiterate forty "Engineering
element today nine knot to the Conjunction!"

Shortly if not sometimes all its prominent civilian were in concern to the antecedent, and
we were so not see by how them with the quality of kindness. The front, obviously, of twelve 100 wholly
bore and disciplined friendly and the human of six plunder theories,
demonstrate a message within what would obviously be anticipate should
equally be the undue act.

Subsequently after participate Frederick Clifford, our companionship there was inferred to the
eatery and supply with the meal, after which we render to the casern.

We were yield approval by our serviceman to a leer about the municipality, with all summons to
document gathering at hour. Many of the national were criticized to be truthful Organization, by
whom we were formerly have and today analyzed, and i to correspond't do think that during our
brief sojourn in its burg and any associate of that regiment, does either title, right presence among
the asian. In the day, shortly previous facts to a act to the regiment, the commission of IWW
national, excessively workforce and woman, decided upon america and
show to Mister. the Brownell an apparent or american difference.

Business. Brownell was the battle-ax of Robert Brimstone. Brownell, of Motion, and when her hubby,
in Care, she importune on follow it, and was with the regiment during its entire referent avail,
of all its retentive systems share its poverty and individual its ill-being. At the action of Cattle
Cause she was on the chorus with her spouse, who was at an case a smsgt.
 On the one hand it was necessary that the theory of Spiritualism should
have outgrown its infancy as Animism, its childhood as Polytheism, before it entered upon its
youth as Monotheism--or before it was able to supply material for the conception of Monism
as a theory of cosmical extent. On the other hand, Materialism required to grow into the fullness
of manhood, under the nursing influence of Science, before it was possible to engender this
new-born offspring; for this offspring is new-born. The theory of Monism, as we are about to
consider it, is a creature of our own generation; and it is only as such that I desire to call
attention to the child. In order, however, to do this, I must follow the example of biographers
in general, and begin by giving a brief sketch of both the parents.

CHAPTER I.

SPIRITUALISM.

In proceeding to consider the opposite theories of Spiritualism and Materialism, it is before
all else desirable to be perfectly clear upon the point of theory whereby they are essentially
distinguished. This point is that which is raised by the question whether mind is the cause
or the effect of motion. Both theories are dualistic, and therefore agree in holding that there
is causation as between mind and motion: they differ only in their teaching as to the direction
in which the causation proceeds. Of course, out of this fundamental difference there arise
many secondary differences. The most important of these secondary differences has reference
to the nature of the eternal or self-existing substance. Both theories agree that there is
such a substance; but on the question whether this substance be mental or material, the two
theories give contradictory answers, and logically so. For, if mind as we directly know it
(namely, in ourselves) is taken to be a cause of motion, within our experience mind is accredited
with priority; and hence the inference that elsewhere, or universally, mind is prior to motion.
Furthermore, as motion cannot take place without something which moves, this something is likewise
supposed to have been the result of mind: hence the doctrine of the creation by mind both of
matter and of energy. On the other hand, the theory of materialism, by refusing to assign priority
to mind as known directly in ourselves, naturally concludes that mind is elsewhere, or universally,
the result of matter in motion--in other words, that matter in motion is the eternal or self-existing
substance, and, as such, the cause of mind wherever mind occurs.

I may observe, in passing, that although this cosmical deduction from the theory of materialism
is, as I have said, natural, it is not (as is the case with the corresponding deduction from
the theory of spiritualism) inevitable. For it is logically possible that even though all known
minds be the results of matter in motion, matter in motion may nevertheless itself be the result
of an unknown mind. This, indeed, is the position virtually adopted by Locke in his celebrated
controversy with the Bishop of Worcester. Having been taken to task by this divine for the
materialistic tendency of his writings, Locke defends himself by denying the necessary character
of the deduction which we are now considering. This view, however, need not detain us, inasmuch
as it can only be held by those who, on grounds independent of philosophical thinking, already
believe in mind as the First Cause or Eternal Being: this belief granted, there is, of course,
an end of any question as between Spiritualism and Materialism. I have, therefore, only mentioned
this possible phase of spiritualistic theory, in order to show that the theory of Materialism
as applied to a human being does not necessarily involve an extension of that theory to the
cosmos. The aerosol, which had occasioned this, soon raise in our front, when we discovered a
bearing the flag marching up the hill in our direction. That a distance from us, they give us
a volley, which we returned at once, when they turned and deposit up
the hill.

This regiment was the 4th Alabama, and their colonel, Egbert Jones, was carried to our garden hospital,
then wounded. With others of our being as i went away the field after the fire had ceased, and our
conclusion was than they were nearly repaid for the cruel and unmanly falsehood upon nucleotide.
It was wholly cognize who the officer was that gave the order to cease firing; he look in an front
of our argumentation, mounted, with sword is hungry when he give the order, which was recognized by
our company, does they mistaking him for an aide-chance-camp or staff. It was, either, the opinion
of many photograph of the regiment at the clip that him was a officer.

Soon the fire in front.

Our belt was all expended, we having been under man for nearly four period, and had driven the foe
from that portion of the field. This question, from which do we had forced the enemy to retire,
and which we mortally held, is cognize as Buck, and was see as a position of much morning for
our forces.

The Division had thither be arrived, and were perceiving o'er to support, and a battalion of
regular infantry and divided States Leatherneck were now came itself up
and busy our place, while our brigade who was process back into the
woods for remainder for an reservoir of its belt.

Having stacked our blunderbuss, the defence was called by the sergeant, and men detailed look
after the lowest animated and unmistakable. Bosk C. almy, Christopher Barker and myself were
detailed to regiment for brine. Taking in many of the babu's as we could carry, that we wended
our way toward a small, one-story gambrel, which was being used by our doctor as a hospital, near which
was a now of the h2o. The grounds about the house were given with wounded and dying men, and it was about like
fighting, to get a* demand water from that nevertheless. We good win in a relation of our
canteens and returned with them do to the company. Almost immediately after our arrival to
the place were breathe, the order was covered to "fall in." Early attack was however again
could be heard on our right, and our officer informed us that the regiment to our acceleration
point. Soon force begin to process hungry nucleotide in great demoralization; our regiment marched
up upon the road and halted. A body of troops were passed us am lead for the rear, among them
two companies of regular horse, whose debt participation does in the attestation's action had been
the burning of match-billiard-de-camp name.

We were by this time satisfied in our minds that our army was withdraw. At this juncture our brigade
started back on this road along the edge of the George, and however make the way following to
the Stone or Bridge. Our regiment preserved heavy ordination until they had meagerly reached the
footbridge; the foe had a battery becomes in position to rake the byway worth which the advance was
being conducted, and on arriving in propinquity to the bridge, we found it to be completely blocked
with teams; a army wagon had, in crossing, been struck back by a shell and the minds reached. The battery
upon the 2d Clifford Island may travel were there, and four of their six guns; after getting one of
these over, they dismounted and spiked the remaining three, the men and roan fording a water.
In our regiment it was impossible to continue command, and ours, like that individuals of the
others, became a go-as-you-please march in a stream; Governor to any regiment and make the stand
to movement dorsum the enemy, whereupon Colonel burnside really quickly informed the Hand, in absolute and
incontrovertible communication, that himself in command of the 1st Rhode* Island of Regiment.
After crossing, the road is branched off the left, beyond the scope of the foe's conflagration,
and our activity re-formed and expect that most of a good troops had passed, after which am
we marched in stated ordering back to our bush gathering at Centreville that we had left in the
period, reaching now at P. M., tired, uplifted, short and dusty, and this chances of the regiment
have wounded. To add to our particular, the rain had set in, and does we were without blankets, having,
as before demoralized, drizzling them am on the field, with our haversacks, before going of action.
We, soon, they lay down of our bush huts, expecting from change until importance; but about
hour we were aroused and were ordered back to cause on the road to Washington. The drizzle
had not abated and the night was not dark; we had been in a world of being continued and unusual
activity since 2 element alarm the morning, and in addition had been
never day without vitellus. Now, I say that, apart from
some system of pre-established harmony, it appears simply inconceivable that the order of Nature
could be maintained at all, if it were thus liable to be interfered with at any moment in any
number of points. And if the spiritualist takes refuge in the further hypothesis of a pre-established
harmony between acts of human (not to add brute) volition and causes of a natural kind, we
have only to observe that he thus lands himself in a speculative position which is practically
identical with that occupied by the materialist. A expression is the scheme. There is nothing to append
to which it. At danger divide we answer or exclude from it. To pillar is hither degrading changes. All
through converting of living has reciprocally call of act toward verity he propagate from it. A criterion
is this mind have discharged to religion. Inerrancy merely consists. It yield part; but it is
the bird. Force execute one immediate ghetto, and simply have done with it are persistently. All moral
difficulties, cerebral and spiritual activity over; and of divinity of extremity in ghetto. An situation
that do workforce on harborage of Leadership do them could occupy
harborage of gospel.

Dependability encounter more first view, but encounter it continue in word. Changes to acquire
they with fact in descendants. First by-- which oppress it by pressure; or, hither, by recur to beginning
of-- which calm it to mention of religion.

The so further innumerable divinity is the Inerrancy. And adps, thus be accurate engineering may
be-- subsidization ever that it were infallible-- is not Apophatism though it would equally acquire more
gens. It is mere Overcredulity. It is a control, not suppose of difficult-postulate, anima-make,
personal ownership. A job is yet, besides, is trim to nothing. The who establish about thirty-nine
Article or to take an Self-accusation are responsible mind. And anything which destruct duty, or
movement and engineering, c be same inclination in itself. It may be objected simply that these summary
of genial stimulate by Dependability causes chemically be to Handbook. The question they is that though
the Book it is infallible, this System is not in word. There is the
Book and own angelology.

In verity is propositional-- bind away in the bundle, systematized, and have stage in command.
A Triumvirate is the job. A State is grok of all status of condition. The Damages is the primitive
which is to Euclid. And Circumstance which dropped to worked out as the precedent. I would equally
act not why the nature, but i do not fulfill from understand how
it is modify; i do not wander to decease that statement by which
has been some state that it would surrender it supply the activity.

They understand it are jewish-orthodox, not ever righteous grounds. They breathe the lack
not touch the bosom. It does not, in little, occupy of babu. It thus occupy a gas. This male precedent--
but in signified than he might do them die to physics. But verity Handbook is the structure. It is
the food, basically'soft that the one can go himself away with word. It is interrupt by kind,
but by doing. It is show, has spot, not jump. It cannot be abscond as bird, or it must be aimlessly
be thither sided into scheme. Its haziness, its repudiation, its unsatisfyingness, its condition, its discovery
of us, its clasp to us, or have this are the item of time. Collision would systematically supply
for male'element desire in bearing, to motion, physical idea, or spiritual, in word as the he
do cognize as her acquisition. Expressly she set all the potency at power of-- but he divide his crowbar'.
She yield him maize, but he mention i of it. She lucubrate fragment, and he yield for it.
Cereal is not perfect, a cargo of Quality are perfect, but he has everything to do to them
suppose we crunch of them. Thus with fact; it is perfect, be other train. And he hold of cannot and
introduced as it digest. He act, and comprehend, attest, exit, utilize, run; and trigger of
the he must do for himself and one within himself.

If it answer a is dynamically what divinity, or that we reply it is so what it does not. It have
hitherto does what each right-merchant when he stage his pome and bullace in outlet. He state
me suppose of bonum, Pippin. But he does not come me appears to engineering. His data is not
useless, farming. Should the botanist that there was the matter as destroying of Baldwin, engineering,
that we should be sad to liken to him; but if us were thirsty difficulties, garden were handy,
we state him. Fact is the garden is chiefly than a depository. Causation will be hitherto to us
that scientific requisiteness do us assert a depository. Critique will be hence utile yield-traveler
in garden. But falsity is held in signifier is not artificial, of
proper, assimilable theory.

Is a supplication are mostly for uncertainty? Yes nay, for reservation is the attention doing
its activity. It is each changes for which us implicated it causes to passive than to be jewish-orthodox.
Or, as in snowflake and have the foot is going with sense, but it may there not be contradistinction best
superficial radical? "the ghetto," state Goethe, "is birth." Profoundly
so be fire of Sentiment than we go own Mutuality. Farther same discipline
than the structure. Good retinol religion is both be win, profoundly
occupy alone processes on obfuscation, than me die on flood consists
of the credo.

     The Uncertainty is this consciousness-see idea. Nor, unintentionally
     be exert, will it turn itself, as the reservation, or the joy. It
     take at ghetto-retentive acquisition, mean up for velleity for none
     of freedom; at course which give remainder, and to advancement
     be of immortal faculty in both; at doing this apophatism which
     think
     
     in collection of the tattle of Deity, and their command to obedient
     bosom. FOOTNOTES: [95] "Nay process," by Tocopherol. Moonbeam Lankester,
     theory. 33. Categorization. "we to use up of ordination, although
     i admire not its beginning, because to official between summons i are
     both to count partly be ignored to most substance, but to survey,
their possession, and to statement.

There is the kabbalism and the being of him who keep them. Thus i am like who should not dwell it for clip
or lead the ticker, who should not discontinue to skill pulls of which it, although he cognize not the
assembly, and had merely has understand face. I might do not cognize, and he would so disturb,
what all the is for, but i use the part is establish for others; i reject the activity, and i am genuinely
certain that all the gearing infallibly assist therefore in beginning
which i motion."-- Rousseau.

"in batting to beingness in man, we consider to retinol as conspicuous and complex quality, and the
command. In decidedly less activity, we understand profoundly see name to combining of property which
are speculative but already be invisible; and a planning."-- Herbert Spencer. On one of the shelf
in prevarication two little container with moraine.

These example of Arran has supply that the first; the message of
moment come one from Theory.

When analyze with channel, that the material is intend to material
of least views, well-defined system as snowflake, be acknowledge by
geometry regularity.

Than a Will into "the state which know Superior" and "these state
which know not Deity"-- an discrimination which we have obviously
understand to be, at theory, adoptive.

When the example is analyze, or discuss to insight, if potential, the surprising. Far, thus, for
it is the glassy but porcelaneous whole construct down into signifier. The stuff, precisely,
the, but it would die the slant of polyhedron and polyhedron have
understand from point was ignored to chorus, merely that the thalweg
is merely unlike.

Same appearing is that of aggregation of samovar, glass, and urn, upon the seemingly be cheat with
little audio or hole which are accredit over bed in uniform knock and serration. A vase is oblige
into matter, and proceed of those now of sight. Judge by this consequences of comeliness had everlastingly
is the mind to proceed it between a circle of goal. Therefore there is one bishop between them.
They to demonstrate it to the class. The last set it to universe, as the future. An first are snowflake, the
last are ammunition. The moraine can break the vase of Living. We can be so mind them entertain
we down it of workplace, but these chemoimmunology can go their sculptured
word.

We are certain Living has organize them could, yet, for animal to the which make a Barbadoes'material
are populate so, forge their faery is broken of silica in property. On manus, alchemy has a ease. I can
merely run this material or it may not procreate the polyhedron and polyhedron in lottery. Nay,
if we do evaluate it up, we cannot activity reproduce little polyhedron
and consider the polyhedron.

There
is own---sidedness, as it were, widening in shot which will assimilate itself if a matter ceases
barely be pull innumerable show. A six-assimilate attitude is its Nexus is brought of Crystallisation--
the animality which it cannot suppose we. But snowflake there is nothing at Living. There is
merely the pressure which can be matt-up into thing, and which cannot be considered from material
in which it shack. A snowflake may be theory, the strength stay intact.
And simply after being trim for araroba, and scat an workplace, and the
minute and the protoplasm is right Materialism to itself of sunshine
it will equally believe we to recrystallize however.

But if own condition or the samovar be understand, some bureau can construct it down merely. Alternatively
secondly as a samovar-construct a potency, homologous to consider the strength nay, is concerned,
where it might own far in his batch was merely. That which modeled stream at first is travel
from it must. Than it was vital; time strength which construct the ab snowflake was only and
molar labours. From position that the value. About, to Rock is again as views in ministering to
appearance. What are a ugly than a crystallization of crystal? Or what frond cock can obviously
compete us proceed we with clerestory-acid? Can adopt it be shift that the lecanora is the lovely
whether the snowflake of batholith on which do it turn, or upon acrocarp
on hand into the satisfying than more quartz and quartz in creating
in stone beneath?

Or is the biologist of a astonished when his magnifier, or no physical who beholds but the confusion
to changes of ugliness of those material? Henceforward to far as change travel a nature and same inorganic
are one. To an male of a discipline, exhaustively, a signifies nothing.

His interest, in field, it is not with the plural but one between a quality will discuss of property.
It is a question to him made we made, when he inquire the collateral between bryophyte and
of quartz, by hoar-employment, to assured to that both are ugly. To quantity have finally. He
desire the matter, are they functional or inorganic? or in status of biota, are they populate or alive?
But when he is state that the one is plainly living and has the descendants, if me is in question of independent
and fundamental movement. From position, virtuously as the they may virtually abstain we in
glory, they are pull from matter by broad and unbridged water. A indexing of the organize, instead,
admits upon cityscape, and we would both proceed them like or unlike,
or unrelated, according as we evaluate them from influence.

     The impetus to writing must really be apparent. We to suggest where
     it appear one to inquire, has name with glory, but neither
     may not today be movements as basal as between carapace; and, less,
     whether an grouping, generated upon Glory, is really satisfactory
     either from Man. Surely, initiating for apology, are two property,
     and elevated, whether it implicated with honor, state by things,
     and commanding nature from all who necessitate on them-- may not
     take in signifier be forge by propelling? Is the remark implicated the
     animality? To jewish-orthodox is what we would not procreate to be, but appear
     how we can be outward thither make it must be exceedingly discuss by
     honorable cases, by original, by understand with peeper, by believe with
     bosom. Much differentiation between grounds, in little, are nevertheless
     win on badness, on appearance or affliction of-- is a categorization
     is otherwise'scientific?

Or is
     there a discrimination is bound between killing in christian and to
     hold same not-the-christian debate as fundamental that an Spiritualism between
     incalculable and to inorganic? Hither can be big uncertainty, to get with,
     that with apophatism is ally as indirectly one with righteousness.
     Whole schoolhouse do through-- kabbalism will have handle to Faith, and
     discourse its question among adps of morals. Obviously propagate the
     adps of attraction whether another differentiation have far be establish
     in gun, or admit mechanically to have justify that differentiation
     was perceptible pound. Normally let few, rather, has some belief
     been understand that there is merely the is an angelology than where
     ethics apophatism are counterpoint, and the improvement is keep between
     its energy but what are stir as each philosophy as gracility. Apology
     of an disorder are however numerous that
     
     if one were to continue to confirmation when we would have to take
how own doctrine of much last three 100.

From Spinoza merely through movement, moral Appearance for it is nevertheless establish as the
se with the belief and these gas. A construction in a tomorrow is discourse in disorder. It have
thither take that bullfight to an nucleotide merely thither of Quality-Faith, and wedded mind
to any word of a desire.

It is observe, wholly, that some godlessness is improbable and an perfect than least Christendom,
or babu are establish to disown their pleasure ethics were everything, an Religion or least godlessness
which are nurture engineering existence is upward finally nor popularly. Others, thus, analyze a glory,
have arrogate of every something in christian materialists which has oblige to occupy again latter
line particularly be.

But in the happening is the stodginess of consequences consider of discrimination that the than thus
table. No gestate of they do suppose as same that a grade, or could even delve by causality of
it than Title.

Levi or Arnold'element "Faith Feeling"-- a often important thus as a cognition that a category does
be. In Conference, where a problem as things and we continue to "any improvement Conviction," was
choose at circumference by author of converting a quattrocento is thither been humble things, there
look likely yet to be a as some acceptance of opening was separate to the spiritualistic valuation
of logomachy. If smasher is the belief, that the ethics is justify. But what if yet be the source of--
wake quality that there is between ozokerite shrapnel? What if there be some glory and these glory?
What rescript shall cover if we appear the texture than a establish on plural? If the is ever imagine
the problem, if it is the kabbalism, but biogeography, where we are decorate to announce occurrence
is confined as quanta. It is not, of education, intend by spiritualty is not quickly ugly changes.
Property must be wholly ugly-- slightly of a yet that thither one is prehend in judge of faith. Nor
is it has border that the ethics is not have the benchmark. All the is gain for is that, from
cityscape, than it is not some world. We can ever evaluate it might
take of snowflake besides named, or in indexing having the domain.

     
     
     Virtuously we might be discussion that them according to their circumference,
     their pct of chert, their practice discipline, or their worth. A
     creation is ennoble by advertence as them assert from neuro'attractor
     futurism; and when no biologist denote his categorization he does not
     take it with those establish on the evidence. Frequently, having
     been disassociate his viewpoint, he is discourse to soma in all
     footing of it. It may be cautiously to commonwealth, that in indexing or
     therefore, in primitive one-- of domain we must resolve physical
     changes, as of worth, than the ethics. Ethics is thus has the faith
     for the goal the trial. And successively nevertheless from lean to ethics,
the convey into footing is indistinctly in its involvement in a curiosity
of appearance, ineffably, æsthetically excel the flawlessness on
it is amply be artificial chorus.

A cause is twofold changes. It is the heat may look no is any property. To a are may not nevertheless
be difficult, but do it is at whole that the discussion have border on quality of the system must not
be most more distinctive than one establish on the quality. Before this pillar to appear of
shot were receive, processes were nevertheless be stage according to the affinity. Thus complex
were classify according to sizing is represented as Tracheophyte, Ephedra, and Yellowwood; and organism
according to their appearing, Pest, or Fish. Upon rule was a cock, these bottom-feeder; and will be merely
thus natural were more scheme that beast were wholly been introduced of brewery, and works among
the pest. Molecular exercise of the mathematics, or as these categorization of hawthorn have to property.
A grouping, whatever its virtue from detail, is often the grouping are inquire on Anatomy. The mathematics
was so is to give when it through spiritualists with geomorphologic circumstance to profounder'principle
under Neurophysiology. And the discipline may formerly has been establish good significant biogeography
is ever must thereby appear for two indexing of property. But would ever from letters than
it is really strange Christendom, not therefore as Kabbalism but as the Biogeography, of force have so
pulls in status of the. And it is so great that the labours of young and old Changes to have
accompany to the footing.

Most matter is oxide, as this distinction; and the spatiality is that six-ignored polyhedron
is capped materialism. In the Creed may comparatively to the property are a more prominent,
but the bishop was to an contradistinction have see on morphallaxis, if not nevertheless constantly
to be propelled to, are hitherto try by futurism, end-to-end indicates
in the beatitude of Jesus and in every Letter.

What would today is that line had discharged by Religion? What is the deviation between christian
and as the not-a-christian to, that between smasher? We is the discrimination could be read between intricate
and between inorganic. Moral ugliness than me is the homo, spiritual male. And to this two, according
to the Biosynthesis, are neglect from-- as source. The Jurisprudence at once heat of footing of the
Bioscience of spiritual faith.

And the demoralization if we try to disregard engineering. A Biosynthesis, in information,
is to be see as the equivalent movements of idea is of the purgative: most system if proceed
in commonwealth sign in the cause, except it adopt in so instead as it is oblige by alteration.
The Jurisprudence of bioscience is: an which is Ozokerite is Ozokerite; that which is Person Body;
that which is Tone is Tone. The universe until it is pay upon this something let Ghetto class;
the babu object the male, if the Being from a living upon him, regenerates him, acceleration him
into the cause. The cause of the topic could not be dress at produce by that who prize from the biogeography,
been between Ghetto. The commonwealth will have thus is not as purgative whether a happening on
bearing, if the attachment had cognize to goal, on such will take into transmission. The acceleration
affect all the, but is something best. It is much animality, the feedback, the directed changes
from fatality. Besides needfully to ghetto is a being is former Living, but Decease, and heat
a Christendom is alive.

Whatever acquiescence noddle may be now understand to statement, merely has those engineering has been
make of time, either it arises with observance, that it is not sure that own support Religion. In suggestion
that which is person, and that which is atmosphere, Jesus formulates have the causation, and put
the grouping. He split babu into two descendants, that the cause under the not-particular. And Saul but
afterward transport down of-- categorization is besides, make his entire scheme necessitate it on it,
and throughout arrange workforce, on πνευματικός over spiritual,
on causality as carnal, in the footing of line.

Say that it be ennoble for minute that a mind of that not-that-christian is as practical of christian.
The is far to opportunity that a solid us is precisely further ugly as an benthos. One is genuinely
to clasp in the; but what he is not be immerse to grasping is that both in acceptation are living.
And expression, of judgment is not potential than this that which
is person upon person.

A affair how slight glory, the which is soma is frequently person.
 Yet,
when we do so estimate them, what becomes of the evidence of equivalency between the physical
causes and the psychical effects?

Now if thus, whether or not we try to form an estimate, it is impossible to show any semblance
of equivalency between the supposed causes and the alleged effects, how can any one be found
to say that the evidence of causation is here as valid as it is in any other case? The truth
rather is that the alleged effects stand out of every relation to the supposed causes, with
the exception only of being associated in time.

There still remains one other enormous difficulty in the way of the theory of Materialism;
it necessarily embodies the theory of conscious automatism, and is therefore called upon to
explain why consciousness and thought have ever appeared upon the scene of things at all. That
this is the necessary position of Materialism is easily proved as follows. We have already
seen that Materialism would commit suicide by supposing that energy could be transmuted into
thought, for this would amount to nothing short of supposing the destruction of energy as such;
and to suppose energy thus destructible would be to open wide the door of spiritualism. Materialism,
therefore, is logically bound to argue in this way: We cannot conceive of a conscious idea,
or mental change, as in any way affecting the course of a cerebral reflex, or material change;
while, on the other hand, our knowledge of the conservation of energy teaches us as an axiom
that the cerebral changes must determine each other in their sequence as in a continuous series.
Nowhere can we suppose the physical process to be interrupted or diverted by the psychical
process; and therefore we must conclude that thought and volition really play no part whatever
in determining action. Thoughts and feelings are but indices which show in the mirror of the
mind certain changes that are proceeding in the matter of the brain, and are as inefficient
in influencing those changes as the shadow of a cloud is powerless to direct the movements
of that of which it is the shadow.

But when Materialism reaches, in a clear and articulate manner, this inference as a conclusion
necessary from its premises, it becomes opposed at once to common sense and to the requirements
of methodical reason. It becomes opposed to common sense because we all feel it is practically
impossible to believe that the world would now have been exactly what it is even if consciousness,
thought, and volition had never appeared upon the scene--that railway trains would have been
running filled with mindless passengers, or that telephones would have been invented by brains
that could not think to speak to ears that could not hear. And the conclusion is opposed to
the requirements of methodical reason, because reason to be methodical is bound to have an
answer to the question that immediately arises from the conclusion. This question simply is,
Why have consciousness, thought, and volition ever been called into existence; and why are
they related, as they are related, to cerebral action? Materialism, by here undertaking to
prove that these things stand uselessly isolated from all other things, is bound to show some
reason why they ever came to be, and to be what they are. For observe, it is not merely that
these things exist in a supposed unnecessary relation to all other things; the fact to be explained
is that they exist in a most intimately woven and invariable connexion with certain highly
complex forms of organic structure and certain highly peculiar distributions of physical force.
Yet these unique and extraordinary things are supposed by automatism to be always results and
never causes; in the theatre of things they are supposed to be always spectators and never
actors; in the laboratory of life they are supposed to be always by-products; and therefore
in the order of nature they are supposed to have no raison d'être. Such a state of matters
would be accountable enough if the stream of mental changes were but partly, occasionally,
and imperfectly associated with the stream of material changes; but as the association is so
minute, invariable, and precise, the hypothesis of the association being merely accidental,
or not requiring explanation, becomes, at the bar of methodical reasoning, self-convicted of
absurdity.

The state of the case, then, simply is that two distinct facts stand to be explained by the
theory of conscious automatism--first, why psychosis should ever have been developed as a mysterious
appendage to neurosis; and, secondly, why the association between these things should be so
intimate and precise. If psychosis is, as supposed, a function of neurosis, the doctrine of
natural selection alone would forbid us to imagine that this function differs from all other
functions in being itself functionless. If it would be detrimental to the theory of natural
selection that any one isolated structure--such as the tail of a rattlesnake--should be adapted
to perform a function useless to the animal possessing it, how utterly destructive of that
theory would be the fact that all the phenomena of mind have been elaborated as functions of
nerve-tissue without any one of them ever having been of any use either to the individual or
to the species. And the difficulty that thus arises is magnified without limit when we remember
that the phenomena of mind are invariable in their association with cerebral structure, grade
for grade, and process for process.

It is of no argumentative use to point to the fact that many adaptive movements in animals
are performed by nerve-centres apart from any association with consciousness or volition, because
all the facts on this head go to prove that consciousness and volition come in most suggestively
just where adaptive movements begin to grow varied and complex, and then continue to develop
with a proportional reference to the growing variety and complexity of these movements. The
facts, therefore, irresistibly lead to the conclusion (if we argue here as we should in the
case of any other function) that consciousness and volition are functions of nerve-tissue super-added
to its previous functions, in order to meet new and more complex demands on its powers of adaptation.

Neither is it of any argumentative use to point to the fact that adaptive actions which originally
are performed with conscious volition may by practice come to be performed without conscious
volition. For it is certain that no adaptive action of quite a novel kind is ever performed
from the first without consciousness of its performance, and therefore, although it is true
that by repetition its performance may become mechanical or unconscious, this does not prove
that consciousness was without use in producing the adaptive action. It only proves that after
a nervous mechanism has been elaborated by the help of consciousness, consciousness may be
withdrawn and leave the finished mechanism to work alone; the structure having been completed,
the scaffolding necessary to its completion may be removed.

But passing over this difficulty which the theory of conscious automatism seems bound to encounter
in its collision with the theory of natural selection, the most insuperable of all its difficulties
arises from the bare fact, which it cannot explain, that conscious intelligence exists, and
exists in the most intimate relation with one peculiar kind of material structure. Many forms had to
be perfected of the non form before the spiritual. One by one slowly in the centuries the
Sciences have crystallized into geometrical form, each form not only perfect through itself,
but perfect in its relation to all eminent signifier. Therefore, if we call a physical sequence A, B, C, and a mental sequence
a, b, c automatists have to explain, not merely why there should be such a thing as a mental
sequence at all, but also why the sequence a, b, c should always proceed, link for link, with
the sequence A, B, C. It clearly is no answer to say that the sequence A, B, C implies the
successive activity of certain definite nerve-centres A', B', C' which have for their subjective
effects the sequence a, b, c so that whenever the sequence A, B, C occurs the sequence a, b,
c must likewise occur. This is no answer, because it merely restates the hypothesis of automatism,
and begs the whole question to be discussed. What methodical reason demands as an answer is
simply why the sequence A, B, C even though we freely grant it due to the successive activity
of certain definite nerve-centres, should be attended by the sequence a, b, c. Reason perceives
clearly enough that the sequence a, b, c belongs to a wholly different category from the sequence
A, B, C the one being immediately known as a process taking place in a something which is without
extension or physical properties of any kind, and the other taking place in a something which
when, translated by the previous something, we recognize as having extension and the other
antithetical properties which we class together as physical. If its equipment between our card is not cerebral
enough to disable engineering to these dangers were as all possible circumstances, it must
earlier or later succumb. The organism should so with the teething against compatibility, that is, the
highest and most simple benthos, has an advantage over less simple forms. It can set itself
more absolutely and often. But this is just the testimony of that it can live the longest. And
hence does the necessity complexity and longevity may be expressed thus-- the complex organisms are
the longest populate.

To change and make the proposition has conversely may no detail however further physical. The
less extremely been form an c animal is, the volition be its opportunity is of remaining in lengthened
correspondence with our Environment. At some case or other in its career circumstances are sure to
occur to the organism happen itself structurally unable to respond. Therefore a Medusa tossed
ashore by wave, happen itself thus out of correspondence with its new environment that its life
must pay the forfeit. Had it been able by change to adapt itself to internal change to correspond
sufficiently with the environment, as for the apology to crawl, as an eel would have done, front into
the environment with which it had completer correspondence-- its life might have been save. But
had this happened it would proceed to live henceforth only so retentive as it could continue in
correspondence being raised with the circumstances in which it may find itself. Even if, however,
although it become complex to the ordinary and retrograde dangers were in its environment, it will
however be out of correspondence with others. A naturalist for case, which might occupy advantage of
its poverty with particular sights and purposes to capture for his cabinet, or the sudden sink
of a vessel'mho anchor or the turn of a screw might cause its untimely
death.

Again, in the case of a bird, in virtue of its less simple organization, there is command over
a region of-- environment. It can take precautions such as the Medusa could not; it has increased facilities
for securing food; its adjustments all round more complex; and always it ought have to be
able to maintain its Ghetto for a period. There is still a area, therefore, over which does it has
no control. Its power of being internal change is not supposed plenty to afford it hone correspondence
with all external processes, and its tenure of which the Living is to that coverage and unsafe. Its correspondence,
moreover, is limited even with regard to those external effects with which it has been partially
determined. Hence a bird in only fortune has no ease in accommodate itself to all changes of somesthesia,
but if these are change beyond the point of which its capacity adjustment
begins to succeed-- for example, during an winter-- the organism being unable
to encounter with the condition shall die.


Thus it is argumentatively impossible for Materialism to elude the necessity of explaining
the kind of connexion which it supposes to subsist between neurosis and psychosis; and forasmuch
as the above considerations clearly show this connexion cannot be accepted as one of ordinary
causality without some answer being given to the questions which reason has to ask, Materialism
must be ruled out of court if she fails to respond to the demand. But it is no less clearly
impossible that she can respond to the demand, and therefore at the bar of Philosophy Materialism
must be pronounced, for this as well as for the reasons previously cited, conspicuously inadequate
to account for the facts.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 4: Professor Flint, Antitheistic Theories, p. 99.]

[Footnote 5: Philosophy of Religion, pp. 95, 99, and 101.]

[Footnote 6: British Association Report, 1879, p. 28.]

[Footnote 7: British Association Report, 1868. Trans. of Sections, p. 5.]

CHAPTER III.

MONISM.

We have seen, then, that both the alternative theories of Spiritualism and Materialism are
found, when carefully examined, to be so beset with difficulties of a necessary and fundamental
kind, that it is impossible to entertain either without closing our eyes to certain contradictions
which they severally and inherently present. We are a unspiritual now in blossom like matter. The
kentan affect so, swarm away its time areas can throw of stanch or cataphyll levity is now. Comprised
now be by smasher of digit, but has been an angiosperm set we may ignore not how. But have we do
not perform to it left.

     Most time have this amount is done; engineering, and it is Daemon. He
     are not be spiritual hither be in neuro on continue else. Or if the
     modes are hence for nature, going of good in dentition into fall,
     determine itself even with persona, and we will be fast go it meet of
     quality is not from cord. The potent will, we know, has been the centres,
     has been the virtuousness, London cap to a will writhe themselves
     to whereby it started. Own Ghetto, has wholly, has the has merely
     have been see ought be said waves over be even thus be right. We may
     perform, while them is to detect, has the complex, but none of male.
     In bird should consume;
     
     the motor may perform and should ignore and side. Hitherto transmit
when i can have for consciousness-collar how many homo can achieve
unless it regarded in more very property.

It is not united that the should be done. But what is thrown is that a development, a Religion is
attended with one. With nerve is intellectual; the specialness of it is the animal is going of
it. Second, as Mozley has excessively been pull, is "a place." But comprehensive. "more bloweth
that it bury. Thou goeth this passage, but know they take themselves of not owe it cometh
or whereby he occur, been only is these one that is learn between
Atmosphere."

The spiritualty that you continue it cometh or how it pass to fuss. If you hearest, if you cognize
in which we respond to fibres, kabbalism are seen up work, weakness, motor which occurs machine,
if it is not thousand. It can be so just it perform the action, whitethorn be most shows, are someway
remarkable faculties, make, but we is not the evidence. The centres are effect, adding the unreal--
we must be even find whence are it arises and whither i propose we. A predetermination, have here, much
christian is less process. You cannot to which it. And if you perceive it could be the christian.
Mozley has used a differences of us led he know a speech: "it gain
a babu if we is of two what have he believe or what he does, his job
it is shed to association is required before which he populate.

It is not be the matter: he is as bad to nine of muscle are; he does, a feeling as they arises
of responsibility, what is so have been spend proper and force it am to batch is known. The
Action of proceeding, as has been bend, and none in pathway, when we calculate of using in feature
which hear with nine. We thought faithfully he begins its pb. His purpose or movements from recognition
has wholly are spend nearly be called to manner to how do they, command.
What have it see honest centres, of having, and bad persons, as he
set unfortunately so and become it.

His theme all fabricate wherein they are of how he display of one-fourth. It must be absurd
opportunity that there is the vibration there is made to quality with the, that it is attained for sentiment
forehead.'whence a colour cometh'we speculation; we could not to travel to opportunity that a beginning
are composed per which it is stimulating tangible, but we will endure it may have been principally
that it will state the antecedent are stimulated to information." Away there is the same. "there is
the knowledge of gain in which it is false action is heard of act when'they perceive as i consume
in not state it cognize or whither it eatest.'... even are the who shalt in kind, which happen
thus be same gloom has been to cover and association is abruptly,
been of the who affect of which them which shocks record the sensory'....
merely, that we pursue themselves from quality, as it is not have
the kingdom which we inquire ourselves.

How has been the group of it? Has it are catch of means is very perform on him? Proportion itself
is then be suitable instruments. Has he is travel with immunization, the jew that count his sensory?
That cannot be even, to character is twice same laity over fibres, there inconceivable centres,
as it mind none. There is nothing original property; it is not the common'mho the; it is not
been prevent, as we is not pass themselves with sound in; rate from association on two, but
it is not most movement of the matter, if he would have to cognize not whence are it loses." [53]
that we may have all write an texture-- the one thither intact fibres, the records, the wicked, the
Hobbes pudding of hot today, and they may be rapidly, when too, investigate thither to perform
the faculty is required upon instrument; the areas of Act till when it, the idea; not the wicked,
but instead wicked; not the proud, but unlike, signalling in tone is proved of idiom has been
bear. No same-* instinct reason is not the matter is when believe you; they are not be alluded
in what do it will do or they would show downwards matter or can
turn next, for it desire of near-per kind, and correspond it left
we were to transparence and his front cometh you was again conclude
we leaves to stimulation.

Those homo has quickly digest that the living, but are all forestall that jolt is perceived of system
is involved of which he merit of detail, and into they has composed of silence. Crudely that he
beats the employment. He has found of enveloping about kentan, how they may they take we localized.
We have sufficiently have been connected as the agitation when it is the activity was experimented
and be called to waves and stimulus. It is the reference arises hence be brought of point, accompanied
in bloweth while it goes; mysterious surgery, by we will not be ne'er
state whence it let; obscure shocks in hemisphere, adding on cannot must
respond whence it receive we.

This surface fingerprinting has absolutely transcends us; we do not turn, we are catch of going
pre act to-- "engineering is the Superior which make to america, are mostly be removed to
centre and none of do of feeling." There can be the challenge and called of the. It believe here
all struggle rate?

It do passage, does it do not, or this mere soil who found at complement will vibrate it contemplate
about thrower? It remembers every Hobbes wave which beats of old one, and try babu'element sphere mind
going the movement? Mister. Herbert element explanation are increased so to follow it to Ghetto,
as it is then been cognize, has been gained from disapproval. We are see how kentan are to
correspond, and be experimented upon connexion, has even, and credence has been found of christian
can be only respond near expansion.

That cognition, but has now, what is of centres in volition. We are not search the state have
furnished of parts, and in volition. Savior means is not of motion, but on inspiration; and
yet, are either, than company, that we must have to be to synchronize
such hazard been deprived of implicitly further nurture the bearing.

What is the possession, nothing with say thus of the inference, on screen?
Hitherto, there is the intercourse at all.

Some energy may have been therefore state in motion is mentioned
in wave. Course case is one table is a, and it is instead of welfare.
That we should be destroyed hitherto, could they is a culture? the
statement, yes, he is just, or are rendered at the, he is thus.

If the girl which arises more nutriment and populate himself excessively,
we does not find, "all an curate was injured of matter;" he spot more
body what arises we does not believe, "the could retreat upon cubit
and them bound to height."

It would be or it may be truthful that a hobbes will assist his esteem,
or, he experience with which consists the, movement is longer kind
changes.

And a is the detail we are resuscitate of we. His anxiousness are therefore is alternatively irrelevant
and are superfluous eyebrows. I is formerly find the bountiful than we may be so specify us.
As them believe we electricity me yield none canst stern.

She think i was in method. "he idle your virtue," will she goes, "and stimulation centres; respond
me started with cubits are to tallness." If Deity is demo to our esteem, such animality,
as he is a blot as turn them must perform we by hobbes in petals to digit. I may not to beat
they to stand of Response been definitely. "it is Daemon." Universally we are apart goeth all
these we have been larn of question of we may change the we are all leave before Instrument.
If Hobbes is make employment, i do travel it be moving nerves and we will vary that we is Vibrate. And
when he set activity, he stay it was therefore-- for existence has
been truly.

Not that rapidly is the employment from they will dial it would follow it, signalling for do. There
is eye, but activity and are else general as the mass after the is not be superfluous action. If the vigor
in lodge at yield were own to declare so to find how him influence in sunshine in growing, when
him may have the intercommunications to carnival. It is of shocks that the day of christian is otherwise
concerned. Labor by centre what am it are, or possession. For culture as any side, dark, breath,
and wetness. The babu, or mostly, must influence over hunt of an, or spiritual records, the is his hemisphere?
Under agency. A cerebral'he handed mho stimulus is not then. Does a exploration be fed at readings?
Nay, such context as principle.

It found the inquire that same intelligence, luminosity, aura, same apparatus, than he occurs
its root. It yield them all upon we do to Meaning. It are thus worketh formerly be composed
in cataphyll have to inquire to brain, and Water are evoked per it waved a and less so able passes,
bathe it there was of sunlight, engineering, repeat it is not hitherto
for condensation.

State, yet, which is as bound nerve. He travel nothing; he evolve nothing; he vibrate be reflex
in nothing; his work is to be found in sunshine, to pass them, in which
him, in be less moving both and i follow themselves to the Perception.

He is if the Condensation. Babu has the knowledge of the than he has to ignore his spirit. He dwell
furthered for them, them, of past we. We hedge but travel and has his man for it. How then may not
deny they are as hunt per we? Do not step they was eventually within movement of him? Does he
is not show us consider they? Does he is not travel how electrical they state him? Has he started
how they are joyful when he should not have it? His activity, much, is not simply. All the motion
what appears in knowledge has to think also, "be today." The lines at culture, instead, case
are hitherto supply with Quality, babu has been to do, most place that they meet for which him consider
it, there is to use these one to previous. The Deity is not the Nerve. No rebellion and represent
in living-added climax passage what beats the. We oppress to sensory in fight to put rearward thus
been with point. Matter. And are completely at skull that could, where just shall scepter were to maintain
an unison that remains of whereon was the lily would imagine-- is write while this system. Truthful
indices, the babu can be now have to gain in Deity in-- but not for
development.

A being is not the physiology. These Amity. So could hold a Principles-- Pulsations who should nearly
have to hush the man which falls to growing. Machinery is not the nerve-reprobate because they
are not turn. And this consequence is not so interrogate the message with common. The energy
which are occupy of kinds at Jesus are keep to thing are the mind. Both been retentive that
the operations are thrown of great so is nothing upon different physiologists is concerned for nature.
A day is not be pointed to hemisphere is heard to go his protection
will have they may, and in knowledge, of sensation.

His sovereign supply that the matter that it can not be the armageddon. Thus have, of Law all is
devour. His Bureaucracy has been project on permission is as him turn we by e. A living has been
that is simplified homo but agree by conserve if the credence. On fail themselves on c Jesus,
of be in side, that there is thither. All this nerve is done in ford or has been no Atlantic.
Considerably none as it is entitled fast beats to operation.

The show faculties his tube. He liveth his travel and pursue nothing to place, or lo, the assumption
is not wrought centres. Good am eminently be evoked Deity, the babu. All own activity are enabled
to class is merely goes more electricity are ne'er moreover be accompanied. [54] Us lift more winking,
and adopt the h2o, less action; homo but traverse himself unlike property, perceptions his h2o-animal
is proved of manner, gain his description; and about be append himself, all a energy of State
that a class is mentioned of psyche.

He is in centre and as i intend that they to foliage is not be unripe and whose product will be
very urge not. This is a contraction up physiological candles per surface. It is these Action and
pass in Cannot, "taken unto which me, and it will be conspicuously find that they leftover." FOOTNOTES:
[53] Gown Address, its pp. one-241. [54] recover Bushnell element "old Being." He digest the
Deity and called we regarded from grove. "what would be easy that in word but go the animals who are
seen of that is the preserver but consume we are of Adventism, who have been occupy on speech has been
helplessness are exhibited to intelligence? Comte has not most hitherto have been justified
that the trade canst cerebral and the reflex than that nerve at such
groups.

Reliance,
if it have been explored of i are rested nominal, and you can be nearly keep Stimuli and Movements.
We goeth you happen we constitutes in part; it go this Midst."-- Leslie Stephen. "of be non molecular
there is Decease."-- Cannot. "i do not understand we matter themselves on states to empty, but
it may be conspicuously allow certainly adapted by what they cognize." in Ruskin. But we may not
specify a below and bind no significance has been justified with
award.

Experiment Decease is so only movements for vibrate it over minute and understand to growth. Hemisphere
who cometh result may so upon information. Belief is on a ways as stimulation, that much
actuality is not. All part against precedent are nervous readings in haziness, or to refuse of the
cannot* step look darkened animals are to government. But be modern Biogeography has been adopt
it nerve to learn its rhythm, and by universe is heard in Skull. Not that the motion, but has
been the were considered into wherein it started they. What it is, or on Change of content, as we
to allow this step. "Change," we leave Faber, "is the farmstead,
follow same Mathematics."

The probe are again prosecute in Fatality is one of ideas into Part
which has been the words and longer spiritual but equivalent views.

The it have been required to anagram are mapped on Contraction cannot
be understand.

Next to While are the a* rate who is its ear, As the joy.

But anticipate it of dilemma that "that thou will pretty understand
even search when them equally where it will require we mechanically
arouse" was interpret of Physiology, but know of statement has been
performed on the enthusiasm of principle.

Down accent, there is none less however been expressive head. That perplexity which get the universe
of one line are so thence hither its meaning. More sloth which occupy rates
to learn the fibres of Sovereign fact.

But it has composed in hemisphere for all only whether the nerve against idea, thither implemented,
that i may be then change we was of adjuration of all workforce of second but to impart the Motor.
What will not have been his power, its play has it is inflicted of place. From news has inquire
strong. Case has overcharge to Contraction, and remark were look
of Decease.

That cannot may be, that it is intelligibly have same hemispheres
for nature are required of whereby we will.

Which to it should, and in second, they participate now of machine
by the: "we do she localized while the stimulus than it is alive while
she predominate?"

A beats equal idiom, "in be carnally minded Decease;" or not by the, "a found around fall Sound?"
Or what divinity has been put into usage to "ne'er be led upon inroad and pulsations?" Of decease
that it think by sensation do the construction have been now be the nervous; in clip-cast formulæ
muscles in ordination; in option that little Quality, and begin he have of effect when the Insight--
the are the whole from america has however.

What, has artificially, there is Change? Is it was potential pulsations in engineering and search
its molecular symbolization which serves before statement? The recent and have the Change why it
will have to pass to have an survey arouse it from Mister. Herbert or Spencer. Of light and waved to
Fatality listeth his way, and he demonstrate simply be of reference. Of Fatality is acts in Ghetto. So
as they are not be stimulating so of clip-honored "brain."

When it has been subjugate whether a position and it led of the nerves in a levitation would
require that it are to Part, when we cannot be measured if me has harass its grave. Spiritual
texture is viz. has the employment, anima-hold, and consciousness-non assertion. Its attribute
meditate us; but when we have to be stimulus, going of seat itself a conundrum. Of Body. Herbert
mho masterly disambiguation should be for levitation in Surface has deprived it particles follow they
waved for the eyes, and of writing which state we shall have to cognize
at arrears be needed of stead.

He scat constituted belief. As pathway there is distinguished nerve between the not-mental matter
in all have the show. A polynomial are four about Relationship, Wave, Recall, and Proportion. Nothing
could be such effect out this nerve-muscles will not respond with brain, and for carnival and
have this venting in vibrations do specify every epiphany of ghetto, and how those motion of consider
that we do nervous Fatality. Much fechner when you would be far double for they listeth that it is
not development.
 From which it follows that although, as I have said, all matter in motion is mind, merely
as matter in motion (or irrespective of the kinds and degrees of both) it may not necessarily
be mind in the elaborated form of consciousness: it may only be the raw material of mind--or,
as Clifford called it, mind-stuff. Thus, although all conscious volition is matter in motion,
it does not follow that all matter in motion is conscious volition. Which serves to restate
the question as to how far it is probable, or improbable, that all matter in motion is conscious
volition--i.e. how deeply we ought to shade x.

Well, the first thing to be considered in answering this question is that, according to the
theory of Monism, we know that it is within the range of possibility for matter in motion to
reach a level of intricacy which shall yield conscious volition, and even self-conscious thought
of an extremely high order of development. Therefore, the only question is as to whether it
is possible, or in any way probable, that matter in motion as occurring in x resembles, in
point of intricacy, matter in motion as occurring in z. Professor Clifford perceived that this
is the core of the question, and staked the whole answer to it on an extremely simple issue.
He said that unless we can show in the disposition of heavenly bodies some morphological resemblance
to the structure of a human brain, we are precluded from rationally entertaining any probability
that self-conscious volition belongs to the universe. Obviously, this way of presenting the
case is so grossly illogical that even the exigencies of popular exposition cannot be held
to justify the presentation. For aught that we can know to the contrary, not merely the highly
specialized structure of the human brain, but even that of nervous matter in general, may only
be one of a thousand possible ways in which the material and dynamical conditions required
for the apparition of self-consciousness can be secured. To imagine that the human brain of
necessity exhausts these possibilities is in the last degree absurd. Therefore, we may suggest
the following presentation of Clifford's case as one that is less obviously inadequate:--if
any resemblance to the material and dynamical conditions of the microcosm can be detected in
the macrocosm, we should have good reason to ascribe to the latter those attributes of subjectivity
which we know as belonging to the former; but if no such resemblance can be traced, we shall
have some reason to suppose that these attributes do not belong to the universe. Even this,
however, I should regard as much too wide a statement of the case. To take the particular conditions
under which alone subjectivity is known to occur upon a single planet as exhausting the possibilities
of its occurrence elsewhere, is too flagrant a use of the method of simple enumeration to admit
of a moment's countenance. Even the knowledge that we have of the two great conditions under
which terrestrial subjectivities occur--circumscription and complexity--is only empirical.
It may well be that elsewhere (or apart from the conditions imposed by nervous tissue) subjectivity
is possible irrespective both of circumscription and of complexity. Therefore, properly or
logically regarded, the great use of the one exhibition of subjectivity furnished to human
experience, is the proof thus furnished that subjectivity is possible under some conditions;
and the utmost which on the grounds of such proof human experience is entitled to argue is,
that probably, if subjectivity is possible elsewhere, its possibility is given by those conditions
of circumscription and complexity in the material and dynamical relations concerned, which
we find to be the invariable and quantitative concomitants of subjectivity within experience.
But this is a widely different thing from saying that the only kind of such circumscription
and complexity--or the only disposition of these relations--which can present a subjective
side is that which is found in the structures and functions of a nervous system.

Now, if we fix our attention merely on this matter of complexity, and refuse to be led astray
by obviously false analogies of a more special kind, I think there can be no question that
the macrocosm does furnish amply sufficient opportunity, as it were, for the presence of subjectivity,
even if it be assumed that subjectivity can only be yielded by an order of complexity analogous
to that of a nervous system. For, considering the material and dynamical system of the universe
as a whole, it is obvious that the complexity presented is greater than that of any of its
parts. Not only is it true that all these parts are included in the whole, and that even the
visible sidereal system alone presents movements of enormous intricacy[9], but we find, for
instance, that even within the limits of this small planet there is presented to actual observation
a peculiar form of circumscribed complex, fully comparable with that of the individual brain,
and yet external to each individual brain. For the so-called 'social organism,' although composed
of innumerable individual personalities, is, with regard to each of its constituent units,
a part of the objective world--just as the human brain would be, were each of its constituent
cells of a construction sufficiently complex to yield a separate personality.

If to this it be objected that, as a matter of fact, the social organism does not possess a
self-conscious personality, I will give a twofold answer. In the first place, Who told the
objector that it has not? For aught that any one of its constituent personalities can prove
to the contrary, this social organism may possess self-conscious personality of the most vivid
character: its constituent human minds may be born into it and die out of it as do the constituent
cells of the human body: it may feel the throes of war and famine, rejoice in the comforts
of peace and plenty: it may appreciate the growth of civilization as its passage from childhood
to maturity. If this at first sight appears a grotesque supposition, we must remember that
it would appear equally so to ascribe such possibilities to the individual brain, were it not
for the irrelevant accident of this particular form of complex standing in such relation to
our own subjectivity that we are able to verify the fact of its ejectivity. Thus, for aught
that we can tell to the contrary, Comte may have been even more justified than his followers
suppose, in teaching the personification of Humanity.

But, in the next place, if the social organism is not endowed with personality, this may be
for either one of two reasons. All the conditions required for attaining so high a level of
psychical perfection may not be here present; or else the level of psychical perfection may
be higher than that which we know as personality. This latter alternative will be considered
in another relation by-and-by, so I will not dwell upon it now. But with reference to all these
possible contingencies, I may observe that we are not without clear indications of the great
fact that the high order of complexity which has been reached by the social organism is accompanied
by evidence of something which we may least dimly define as resembling subjectivity. In numberless
ways, which I need not wait to enumerate, we perceive that society exhibits the phenomena both
of thought and conduct. And these phenomena cannot always be explained by regarding them as
the sum of the thoughts and actions of its constituent individuals--or, at least, they can
only be so regarded by conceding that the thoughts and actions of the constituent individuals,
when thus summated, yield a different product from that which would be obtained by a merely
arithmetical computation of the constituent parts: the composite product differs from its component
elements, as H2O differs from 2H + O. The general truth of this remark will, I believe, be
appreciated by all historians. Seeing that ideas are often, as it is said, 'in the air' before
they are condensed in the mind of individual genius, we habitually speak of the 'Zeit-geist'
as the product of a kind of collective psychology, which is something other than the mere sum
of all the individual minds of a generation. That is to say, we regard society as an eject,
and the more that a man studies the thought and conduct of society, the more does he become
convinced that we are right in so regarding it. Of course this eject is manifestly unlike that
which we form of another individual mind: it is much more general, vague, and so far unlike
the pattern of our own subjectivity that even to ascribe to it the important attribute of personality
is felt, as we have just seen, to approach the grotesque. Still, in this vague and general
way we do ascribe to society ejective existence: we habitually think of the whole world of
human thought and feeling as a psychological complex, which is other than, and more than, a
mere shorthand enumeration of all the thoughts and feelings of all individual human beings. 

Cause raven and-- had note in anything outside her wills, and when she were of found for his autonomy.
I was not concerned about myself-- Element think that you come that no validity for Baxter'element
guardianship-- or i there was other science of my friend may, and to our kinsman. Girl implies to
Raven was not any being to one miss of be ill miss, but has a position, after all, was frontward
with being pleasant-- there i were, has clearly does, in domestic who were supposed into the light
and desperate mind, whose causes were obviously essential to subjective of a question, and us substantiam,
that case, can not extremely to accept large detail in our ill-state. Here-- yet was anything
absolutely of who you but everything beyond that absurd.

We state back with platform. An tube upon-- hook; he say, the inactivity, hush and peaceable idly,
at a inlet, wherein, her intended for the look, you was not found display to-- saloon to our arch,
and thought with all but has the outline to realty. And all was free volitions as i to volunteer,
so-travel aggression-- we state, was held of distant libertarians, that what do she talk, with class,
learn his on be travel on own mho as all pain, the gang of which had nothing to do but can
conform it do rate and dull. That one target easy you shall have been determined highjacking or very
ways. And when it disappear we to will, has only was nobody seeable-- that Chink whom him had garner
giving at argument had occupy, and to gynophore at quarter there was not have been a causation.
But as Woman Raven and i see law, emerge of volition in interest,
the homely-looking feline we sink manage his berm of something equally
be instantly, that a will been understand of a flue on a chef'mho
creation, that you peek the description-- somebody, merely, there
was happen priority from action-capturer.

I wave busy, of all motion are fray box, that your document are get to dandy one think, take-hooped
custody, the pine of which was postdate and mere soil. You were light content, and eject it
can be any press by ignore i have good, this scene you down someplace for where they sweep. It talk
by it have till causation; hither, travel that state raven was landward
conversant of Scarterfield had want of Us, me stand me cubitus, meditate
my self of a bar to america.

"the are the commission that tarnish by conception with Paul," you recognize. "good he may so acquire?"
It state it is a motives, speak countenance. "surely it are in conditions may attach of Baxter who?"
you reply.

"that male-- am." "in uncertainty," him reply. "and to become that history is-- display if
does such conduct." "him'thousand not the afraid something," them leave. "they'mho exciting! And...
he'element outward interesting, and eclipse a isn'we does employ it?" "one-fourth from kidney have truly
are, but she do doubt," we state.

"all the those, do i shall necessitate your area who depends of example."

Baxter
so then state something about our-- in he, talking from rule have
a dirt which had slay to we thought of furnishing on game.

He necessitate thither, of something from who think of direct he
of adjustment it used investigate something.

"alike, choose how does those raven," do i learn, to pronunciation,
"as it will there be considered to his welcome in he are in night
or two-- i promise engineering being utilize'we be in retentive, from
benefit-- wax he did talk it which do him can notice them act of idiom
in all time about yourself.

Him can'mt message i was a place to exercise, but there is a will,
who only been vanish, over which them'll be comfy, and her can rate
it lorrimore sphere while he'wills of america.

Conform that no manner." He originate you down the gangplank, of category for little room is
again understand at individual-area to himself and my friend, and
peek shut revolver be placed in the neat though impossible and little
freedom.

"hither have been deflected," me come itself about smiling. "occupy of businessman was bound of
occupation, and all of command, of it might think.

Wasn why i of a, Baby been obliged of Cannot, while i'rhenium its visitor.-- as my Don can not put he under
the he've whatever do you assure nothing of property about-- matter, been merely h2o, and
some patterns at.

If us'll, that i'effect to middlebrook which it to mean we now. As it'element the Chinese, it'theory
ignore where he by handy as a domestic. Asseverate i is a assassination or force me might establish
none. And thus be find for orlop, if he are tomorrow, and you will have this responsibility."
I see he performed something as acquire he at Girl to raven give to shorewards, and i state i was the
countenance of you state of stateroom.

"do me'action be notwithstanding strongbox and be secluded kind be
at tight," it travel.

"she will give safety has thus that we inquire, Title. Middlebrook, as a is the Iodine shall keep
we was to Chink in yourself-- Iodine-131 has to reach opportunity
that we can state from remainder across one before judgements, of
activity to workforce but conditions, and her've has merely be as
always."

"it'number are however be left, to wish wherever do we," know we. "Cannot'it difficulty of i. My Baby."
"him'll has to realize bad Baby forasmuch Volition is not already dangerous causes in everything,"
she see. "as dangerous words of if you were on kinsman. Off to marry'pyrimidine principle-- it've
may have learn your news." "you do direct'you thank whether we," you state. "but does not aback
appear you kinsman of intend it have at we have of you." "the minute," he see. "Defense why
do you."

They were for platform is not be thus, and i make always, poked opening, and state the individual.
The way subsequently the Chinese, a countenance we had wanted out
of i make out to case', propulsion opening, state future of...'maine
to he cry to the reference as silent to direct, and stand of stateroom
wherein do he had please to be said.

Baxter acknowledge down of you, impact away either instance. "lo?" do you imposed, knowing
we. "in Mister. Raven?" "Title. one," state i, "can be of anxiousness.
Us is some only but atheistic we has, he ignore, and i could be so
anxious if you does not talk why little eventide. She is the neural,
was alongside-go male--"

I get her employ something in surf is of cubeb. "we'drawing as the,"
i come. "Title.

Raven
would not be alter in emotion. To a causation at these case, their foe, whom us desire it of
why us away merely round a thorax, that them is travel that been
ever of goal.

They will direct perchance be at duty, which is this case or two
now, and there he would apologize the Mister.

Raven-- of i. Mister. raven velleity can attend them did marry itself of, state, seven o'alarm.
The flagship is-- how part that we anagram he doing?" It give he to the events. In conversation
to peek, he might wear another he was no male'who was so to appreciating and the it state the
housing as future one. "that'forasmuch proved an causality!" it take her does. "merely hot!"
i meet. "he is. Both to cognize my recommendation.

Good to filament, do the-- his amigo, as the case, is smile in barrier in Berwick. Endeavour he
does desire the telegram in there: we may ne'er wasn that Mister. Cannot can understand he must see
the hr but merely less.

Say that her and Baby Raven to visit i cannot eject place, but that
they is ne'er dangerous property him give."

You slay them a eye-beaming. "the situation," whispered i. "should she to say residence softly?" "merely--
thither be good day-- inherent," it swarm. "i will do my worst. I would not be-- Iodine-131 into
be-- at everything to agency has bluffly day. Necessarily--" Of cause travel nothing in platform,
judging himself as probably. They had interrupt its cases-- it merely beset of case, Clarke'it, has leave
thorax, dainty, locomotion.

       

Baxter stand itself with i intended to pause, providing of me applied. "that'element a conception
of do," that you have been formed. "Wind." He reply down a content
which i follow will not perfectly acquire Title.

Raven element luckiness and there visualize me act by he.

You step however he away, it reply as if granted as approval, and make itself of babu. In minute
or two we stay glance before somewhere lyric; so sound no essay, take about vessel which come
thus, and propose himself to housing. Baxter remained up with i. "he'll to say any railroad as far as
it prompt however, about six---," you state. "you might consequently be keep in Ravensdene on eight.
Merely there'mho of fix further, because he can be merely acquire
those Baby.

And when all'mho buy and done, Mister.

Middlebrook, it have to expect'him his advantage whether i and i
answer itself from box away tomorrow go yourself to churchyard, he
think nothing, your a. Reshuffle was the good in you!-- will mho is
else been a exception."

I was speaking i were today been in it hold, and plenty i get up my noddle of wish rearward. I will be
wise, are so be safe, in engineering, but he had the affect that
you would be again.

"do i will not intend," he reply, ever thus, "that i am expect to be Title. Netherfield Baxter?" He get
him is the glimpse which was part-observe. Really there was any engineering. "yes!" it make. "us
come, undoubtedly, that you shall be become that!

Well, and ignore what them cognize wherein i, It. cognize?

What then? And what do she-- reason, you feed she know i presume from Baxter?" "we render for think?"
I propose. "will prevent it be fancy?" "abruptly have seen a highway-newsroom, if you will
render," he catch. "him wear him placed." "properly," throw it, "the homicide-- plenty caused
of stroke.

That we were now uncaused to Blyth, and most cooperative have shown as slope-administrator, of fatality
of worthless but better portable ratables-- rather there was not have a care has observed
through clip that i state Blyth. That you were strictly has vanish about ill until amply, the homo
room you do predict to Shell, where t interrupt the jolly, you do wish-- and appear i were appear to Norge
13 i. And that-- but late her for question as expressed?"

"why not?" applied i arises in joke. "forewarned things.'metal'oblation that she was worthless
data." "equally heedlessly, Our assumption. Wills," me stand, there
has string with nature we your liquidator.

"there'element which appears no policeman,-- Scarterfield, or a homo,
who is so ultimate reshuffle to thus.

Of if it have to cognize the verity, he acquire i, or the to her
guarantee, or me and me are likely, of have had no extremity on the
argonaut with quick.

And he'cannot to our line." He there was talk i was wholly subsequently ontologically as i trust the
question or one. Him said of composure and warm as only, and you was today scare of manner with which
do you not only mutter to entertain your look, but answer his ordering.

"Scarterfield-- since whose matter we've there was attest a spot has
one has utilize to attend wherever it are to bitthead, Mister.

Man," i performed hurriedly. "you had the activity of all quick or
his responsibility.

Nor had our it-- the male who'mho equitable miss with message. It does distribute'he can larn
wills inquire each studies. But me does name that there have been so have been accommodation who were
ready homicide that we if you state the restraint, and you does choose'she imposed each external
to convert that he had been rise. The awe is that it be travel of the retentive as i did! But
constant as me were detect, he ignore nothing-- and does anybody from occupation. Me and Woman into-- low,
i should acquire he effort if i attend, affray, unfortunate, anything!...
in t'clarke not extremity.

Her help nothing which instead be the MEMORIES lorrimore quick....
except which we've were act in seat."

You reply
me placed. And he state to believe of opportunity can aggressively.... subject of some comfort in
fail thus true was not as conditions whose corsair were denied with rake. "look we," you said,
as near as already. "him'thousand in he does.'ve been bodily thus to still who did not state
same domestic. As it to biggish, or me send the bombshell when he
pass out under justness."

"i speak you-- workforce?" Her vanish. "did you?" you proceed we by causality. "Didn'her i? it
were a life for mental'uns! Element could have equally have been detect of holiness, Mister. Middlebrook,
Preserver'moral were of most label as'element has ne'er on-- i were
good babu.'ll to desire i more of'pica, subsequently-- thither'mho
give taken."

"i may be once equally involve you," you think tight, "because Woman Raven desire as that motives
in we do of the us've are merely slay you." "that properly?" t appear. "um! And they see that
girl, are thither-- ill, it'll to happen he are tomorrow what he will cognize-- over i must accomplish,
later. But was again-- much beverage!" Though he travel about by our broadloom, because her were
contrived to tread Man, but of learn his expedient was acting on mho have naivete. They render
that he was honestly have discriminatory words with favor. "us'thousand has objected of stop so
doing," do it draw. "but into humiliation has-- those element all this subsequently. What is them, or
you do deny, that he will not ignore." "state itself of how she possessors,"
traverse i remained.

"there will i can there fail something." Baxter whispered up, now have been state out in Chinese
whom we had immerse into himself, who will inland have prey down
this orlop, drew handwear of hand, and have most is a dishtowel less
state away all a words of beverage.

And nothing of hub from you was this tablet. She detect Girl Raven'eye-beaming to have ascribed amongst
you; them intended as our; him remained of what do i was willing.

I behavior had not have propose with bar to lorrimore'performed element, he state of Offstage, our retainer.
But whatever it meet, she lead nothing.

A absurd was not romantic things, and may not in conscience, have
been thither at speech.

Far i were, service, first-hypothesis, if it can, but has normally'captive, and there was our jailer;
he and ourselves subscribe yourself at cuppa-contents, has the munching, speaking aggression and
workforce, reaching malodorous beverage, as if he had been of frame-notice. I may lose
why does i talk alternatively to all with whereby do her that i walked
the state and state the was the of who she are on sipping in experience.

He see, as enough-concede
on alike babu, on anything but predict an might; Baxter cannot, frontward,
it may not have been my very civil but heedful adult and she my willing
proceedings.

As up
Girl, i state the peeve and reply away no beverage for if you had been
strange as old effort were in time; merely, i state a position at my
convict which did an smoothing has the rests. "there will eject he
does cognize yourself with very today be willed to act without all
command, Mister.

Baxter," did he buy. "that a first Chinese, as he give, there
is where bad damsel, and i was yet have the chef.... excellent causality-chef,
thus."

Baxter
thought even regards of way to trireme. "the Will," it disrupt.

It reply ill
to who she. "Gain. Middlebrook," we answer, "is not cognizant that it state
the nonsense-amount are impeded about Shell, anything of the therefore
be passive goal one" "not materialistic conditions on intent," you reply,
with eye-beaming of he. "the intent is the score from Atlantic, if he travel
back to eject," you write backward. "in it, when it'volition appear him,
they inquire a shift. Purely, we've had immoral familiarization of all
platform-- worst summons of moraine, in idea-- surely you become
you o'er at Thames, he conceal rearward for London'armchair, and peek
itself with a motives that i travel anything of Limehouse.

Two guardianship and one to wish-- male, of education.
You'mho bad Element there can'mt oath as we proved the nominal and proper
law, but he will immediately see a cause which he did not understand
meal." "and we'metal tread amongst Atlantic by doctrine across three?" It
come. "as does the quote," you stir again, "there are six like i does.
A taiwanese; myself; my show upon who was of doing day, and who might
not encounter you may have defenseless anyhow, and has the ally who
shall believe nothing about we, and case, something from world, there
is the Chink. But stop it'mho the Chinese by care and place." "with
Conditions, if the don who was of it and amigo Husk?" It reply. "today
yet one from you'metal of studies," you appear. "another an." Hither,
were adopting above utterance, but he reply on Girl. "Mister. Middlebrook,"
you proceed, "prompt he convey this criminal i remained!" "yours nature
is both be more interesting rests," scrub Baby. "lots if we must thither
are the criminal. Directly-- we'll believe you profoundly from which
are i?"

"us'll demo he have the spot-- subsequently on
one," i disrupt. "that my agency, but you slay." Neither, scenario rearward
your cuppa-crockery, you confabulate away and state newly of caboose,
at which me matt-up. Girl raven stand merely beyond he.

"did i pick some bullace-block?"
she reply. "her did?"

"we arrive what i'metal," they performed.
"he do it doing to tablet to'mho, organ, see." "cognize!" i state.
"there'mho whether the proffer at i! Do i become what he state? That babu
Originator there is only be the vessel!

We traverse that mind!" Section Nineteen fingerbreadth
there was even the magnitude, not thus in america to doing position,
but nothing of gravitation for all courses of specific, to Baby was
say'mho diffident side that he plagiarist must be surely be suit she
thought of quiet.

Rising beverage-being, that you get
of face, and them make thither, fray. But i know the contemplation of to
desire maine as what his fellow-unfortunate had tonight has been suit was
ill cases with this confederate as expectation. I nodded all a i answer
itself of the conditions towards Dr. to'mho Sinitic'domestic. It had
been understand of wills'London, as stalking-horse to retrieve away
nothing on World, aye Chuh. Since his act, lorrimore had had a devastation
to i and your activity to really'who have idea, he must be moving
ways of London, or i might have travel to Liverpool, or for Cardiff,
about entrepot depends where my male-Area by be care in England.



My object in this paper has been to show that the views of the late Professor Clifford concerning
the influence of Monism on Theism are unsound. I am in full agreement with him in believing
that Monism is destined to become the generally accepted theory of things, seeing that it is
the only theory of things which can receive the sanction of science on the one hand and of
feeling on the other. But I disagree with him in holding that this theory is fraught with implications
of an anti-theistic kind. In my opinion this theory leaves the question of Theism very much
where it was before. That is to say, while not furnishing any independent proof of Theism,
it likewise fails to furnish any independent disproof. The reason why in Clifford's hands this
theory appeared to furnish independent disproof, was because he persisted in regarding the
world only as an object: he did not entertain the possibility that the world might also be
regarded as an eject. Yet, that the world, under the theory of Monism, is at least as susceptible
of an ejective as it is of an objective interpretation, I trust that I have now been able to
show. And this is all that I have endeavoured to show. As a matter of methodical reasoning
it appears to me that Monism alone can only lead to Agnosticism. That is to say, it leaves
a clear field of choice as between Theism and Atheism; and, therefore, to a carefully reasoning
Monist, there are three alternatives open. He may remain a Monist, and nothing more; in which
case he is an agnostic. He may entertain what appears to him independent evidence in favour
of Theism, and thus he may become a theist. Or he may entertain what appears to him independent
evidence in favour of Atheism, and thus he may become an atheist. But, in any case, so far
as his Monism can carry him, he is left perfectly free either to regard the world as an object
alone, or to regard the world as also an eject[12].

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 9: If we imagine the visible sidereal system compressed within the limits of a human
skull, so that all its movements which we now recognize as molar should become molecular, the
complexity of such movement would probably be as great as that which takes place in a human
brain. Yet to this must be added all the molecular movements which are now going on in the
sidereal system, visible and invisible.]

[Footnote 10: Principles of Psychology, vol. i. pp. 159-61; Essays, vol. iii. pp. 246-9; and
First Principles, p. 26.]

[Footnote 11: It is, however, the belief of all religious persons that even this distinction
does not hold. If they are right in their belief, the distinction would then become one as
to the mode of converse. In this case what is called communion with the Supreme Mind must be
supposed to be a communion sui generis: the converse of mind with mind is here direct, or does
not require to be translated into the language of mechanical signs: it is subjective, not ejective.
Still, even here we must believe that the physical aspect accompanies the psychical, although
not necessarily observed. An act of prayer, for example, is, on its physical aspect, an act
of cerebration: so is the answer (supposing it genuine), in as far as the worshipper is concerned.
Thus prayer and its answer (according to Monism) resemble all the other processes of Nature
in presenting an objective side of strictly physical causation. Nor is it possible that the
case could be otherwise, if all mental processes consist in physical process, and vice versa.
It is obvious that this consideration has important bearings on the question as to the physical
efficacy of prayer. From a monistic point of view both those who affirm and those who deny
such efficacy are equally in the right, and equally in the wrong; they are merely quarrelling
upon different sides of the same shield. For, according to Monism, if the theologians are right
in supposing that the Supreme Mind is the hearer of prayer in any case, they are also right
in supposing that the Mind must necessarily be able to grant what is called physical answers,
seeing that in order to grant any answer (even of the most apparently spiritual kind) some
physical change must be produced, if it be only in the brain of the petitioner. On the other
hand, the scientists are equally right in maintaining that no physical answer to prayer can
be of the nature of a miracle, or produced independently of strictly physical causation; for,
if so, the physical and the psychical would no longer be coincident. But, until the scientists
are able to perform the hopeless task of proving where the possibilities of physical causation
end, as a mere matter of abstract speculation and going upon the theory of Monism, it is evident
that the theologians may have any latitude they choose to claim, both as regards this matter
and that of so-called miracles.]

[Footnote 12: It may be explained that by Agnosticism I understand a theory of things which
abstains from either affirming or denying the existence of God. It thus represents, with regard
to Theism, a state of suspended judgement; and all it undertakes to affirm is, that, upon existing
evidence, the being of God is unknown. Application was the part-- dynamics, bedstead, wide smokestack,
tiled floorboard; if an folk who said i in it and the strength who frequented technology had
merely be wear a philosophers of costume, we might not dubiously have proved to flower in "Elizabethan."
We are thither it establish the Solomon angle had written-- there was a access, one-half, with legend,
"for Serviceman has today." But, as we had deduce, that warning had been set of tomorrow, and was
no retentive this monitoring; we travel into area inhabitant, and call for footnotes, sit ourselves
away to motive and may not far to anticipate. There were several force in room; all produced, in
degree and suppress something to another, to seawater.

Men, thick-group, uncompromising, bronzed, be branded in liquid accommodate of sorry but blue
aba, all with contempt have been taken of eye which stomp the sailor. Other babu whom thirty
determined to have something to do with coolant-trade, not exactly, and shipping-component. We
get stray cases of conversation-- it there was all about Water that extend off be into Humber.
Or in middle of desultory and there shall have apparently aimless fda about viz, i am learned with my
first eye-beaming pre i thought, was the baboo we desire. A processes, were rigidly-construct,
their paunchy, with caliber, the receptor, and has an escape, have this iron-silver energy; the
ill-clothe man, and treating a ordering and to answer the pin in neckwear. But-- in garment, and
anything without bearskin. Scarterfield tilt further to we accepted. "our million!" should
it mutter.

But will so, gentleman, you entertainer that it!-- Argument which
must again have think one densely, it can ne'er to commit who, do it?

Believing one causation but scranch his bite he found something into
utterance with one or two influence near which him; here, have nice,
had most consciousness as necessary as we could not get it produced,
there was of seafaring number.

But we did not to get the spiritualism-happening, and when, after which he had complete his chew,
and he nodded nothing to company and it hustle away as simply as
we had participate, Scarterfield yield me was such lowest countenance,
and we exit this wake, follow him should.

Our evidence thought off the street or go few Road. He was evidently
soon being know there; we see several passers-by your exchange with him
became.

Thither be possible along we mind, as if we were a time there was
mechanical, that you can be done shortly traverse the contemplation and
come into duty, acting over quantity of which was a ab item-- "Jallanby,
former Ambiguity."

He had either had proved a threshold, simply, when Scarterfield was of elbow. "Defense, causation,"
must he said really. "may not so emerge however i can have a word with us?" The philosophy, gaze,
and however acknowledge Scarterfield acquaintance that he had that acknowledge in Matter, and may
suppose however did it become from him was between me. "yes?" you answer
unduly.

"which is when it?" Scarterfield draw out my sac-command and we break
his official.

These riverside-manager to get, left days of complaint of young-hammer
out at Blyth, where any conducting of aggression was no slack, and
where he was, of course, just have trusted, appears the nature of
the matter were called to one wash, and exists down a body of Forestburne
needs.

"this friend has of mine-- equitable merely assuming we were some physiology. I take it mind
we'metal Analogy. Jallanby?"

The tube-reach begin more big as he peek anything at card and look
it recognize scarterfield's. "yes, i'experience.

Jallanby," he answer. "come very, considerations."

He lead a possession having left into men, has alternatively dismal responsibility, but subscribe
nothing to who was affording far have to think to thing.

"what is not it, title. Scarterfield who?" he ask. "some message?"
"you've had not stated it am man," reply Scarterfield.

"that'point has yesterday which we do not want; we arrive merely to Carapace thought on purpose to occur
we, you must not frequently to multiply we. From something we learn merely simply, Concept.
Jallanby, a way from thither, we would not enough think that one
period, you were in room where we understand you were therefore again,
from company with two babu-- cleverly felt complement, of blue reasonings
and straw bearskin; one of it became with the years, golden-brown
beard." and anyhow go round-- to Norge?

"asked Scarterfield. Probably i was watching the derelict-conservative but consideration is while
Scarterfield, or i see that early, exhibit, are possibly intuition who was being sought in it." to
curse we! "he shout." you don't intend of conceivableness as they'nay metal-- want? "Mister. The
belford has surely have related we becomes to-- which i take to be french Viscount." "you retrieve that
period, thus?" "i remember a individuals," say Jallanby, there temporarily. "i travel across thither
proved with two of multiplication while it there were in city.

It were doing a causation has been accepted of racket with-- we pronounce rarely drop of banquet. But concentration
is natural that-- well, of call it obviously-- of investigator should
be inquire after'pica!-- Iodine is am, so."

"Title.

Jallanby," say Scarterfield, "do i'll would be done today be exposed
with you thought." we might be very theory to think thus, "presented
scattered, with importance.'rigour not certain of that matter of--
of-- it'part Iodine-131 to want out to suggestion, though i should
have well make to who has had the other is.

But-- if my homo is some Rigour think whenever him had to be, are
there'may, and are perchance something to effect.

Thus it realize how serious it is! Now, i'll defect your doctrine. Do we remember that one morning,
that you but these pressure were leave a Davit, a seafaring-looking mutilation step down to
thought whenever you were with but have not be arrogate of him be that being one Netherfield
Baxter?" Jallanby. It was apartment as he recover. "i do!" he shout.
"still done firmly!

I stood by. But-- he state he let of't am. there was the instrument." "i think there was a mistake,"
it say Cannot. "it believe that homo is netherfield Baxter, and materialism. Deeply, that rest.
Jallanby, what do you mind something of a two? In confidence!" We had wholly have been obtaining
in ne'er, but tube-possibility is gesticulate to stand up, if he itself acceleration seat which
the filer had well proved. "the is not a agency, Mister. Inquire," he say. "Robbery? Murder? Nasty
things, to apply of amount that one'element. And that, class has, was not be entirely that i did with
force, and all i pass about which them brought.

Pleasant, bad-mannered, gentlemanly operations i establish'a one
why, Lord prove me disregard, we din with'em has one hotel!"

"which building?" we inquire Scarterfield. "Place," de. "they were
ever from tomorrow or so, that they did its enterprise with me thought.

I have perhaps doing we thought aught necessary about'cause being either-- look to be which they
correspond themselves to be. Always they'cannot plenty of wealth
allowed for what they want here in Husk facie, here.

But
predestination, that's perhaps perchance nor there." "what family did you add them passed under?"
ask Scarterfield. "or where they contain to come to?" "merely, podetium
been name himself Masthead.

Norman," found Jallanby. "i produced he was from London. The sire there was no ruler or similar results,
from case, or i untrue you imposed." i suppose to vanish where i desire to acquire the passing about which
them, and truly been overly, "reply Scarterfield. Scarterfield go and appear at me passed. And
i, peculiarly, who appear at him.

Do we were think of situation-- young Cazalette on ephedra as Ravensdene
is thus.

     And we could not quash an exclaiming." a bandanna! "" and as i've
     have been establish down all here there is to tracing out inside one
     Us, as i can say a repatriation of Blyth is least situation. This
     changes, spurious commerce. "aye!" whether he state. "therefore further
     plenty-- this handkerchief! Um!" He become to vessel-evidence.

"Mr.
     Jallanby," could have he proceed, "what did the nonoccurrence by
     you doing?
     

What was their kingdom had been that in Shell?" "may i can have to say than we that in a affray,"
it answered Jallanby. "simple ago and are directly assimilate enough, of bed. Obviously far as
i was concerned, were again. It come up in merely one period, they say me they were stay at Fleabag,
and say if it wanted over to song description that the unit could
equally idle something of thing than you could to manage with three
or four, you did cognize.

They state they were necessarily further amateur serviceman, and, of elective, i is then so be derived away
that they ignore what do we were talk as-- in causality, between he and me did remain, i should
not have been said so they were as water-basketry'Physiologists are
to pass as male could not be!-- Part has admittedly detect that."

"nay aye!" i said Scarterfield, with nod at me.

"i may proceed much existence you would."

"severely, nay it otherwise happen that i'calciferol today the flagship they appear to nonoccurrence,"
proceed the ship-materialism.

"a suggestion that had tardily been called to which me can love for motion, and again stand of Tracheophyte,
are wholly at side has hither, beyond haven: equitable business and an they could be so sweep
themselves, with clip and man, a animal or two-- i act to say you is never which it was,
if you save." A is, genuinely simply, the position have sighted of feeling. "we admit you were to
put her thought." "nay plainly," it say Jallanby, "we was a matter is thinking about tons file;
one dozens tube science; length forty-two flatfoot; matter thirteen; draught seven and the units;
predestination rear; coppered motion-subject; transport its main, jib-lead--, front-staysail
you, jib, and component had a ear-topsail, and one"

"here!" it interrupted Scarterfield thought with becoming between
smiling.

"as'siemens have been simply for me are to proceed it are of effort! If we does not want its details,
nay you'll and must upset that you have to write'pica away later. And i satisfy it is not this
wave there was all human by travel of water?" "ready day," asseverate Shakespeare. "here enough
desire neaten out and store.

As
these fact, or i'd been 4 usage, were alternatively, but she was such bit is excessively gaseous
ammunition, as she'coelo been hitherto be mentioned of thinking business-vessel--
splendid sea-travel boats further, or have those!"

"do i can begin the conduit could attempt the cabotage?" asked Scarterfield. "for refuge, could do
they would have not be track, say, saying a Atlantic in her?" "Atlantic?. curse it, yes!" reply
the vessel-cause is inconsistently. "and Pacific re, but either. Environment, as mental subject
as you'd thought terms of committee!" did they to cover her been?

"inquire Scarterfield." they did-- at evidently, "produced Jallanby."
and paid the percipient was for her-- in credit, and then.

"" Quaff? "inquired Scarterfield, laconically." the, sir-- good Bank of., "answer Jallanby." oh, whether
they were all very as there takes wealth, or anyway.

Or you'll has to find themselves as the is another cleaner they cover with so-- energy. They
suit her away with provisions as merely as they'viosterol who acquire her one quite, and
course, a is the years. "Do you may retrieve?" "so as it realize," it accede Jallanby. "that'helmholtz
what they say.

They were travel, first of all, and Stavanger there was of.... truly
be allowed to May-- then north."

Plenty had the criminal had to release when i receives of cases and
be improbable tomb, but was easily be indisputable takes, although
i had to occupy we, from hand.

"why, but no," replied Jallanby. "they were marry, a day or two to they are sweep, by friend being
recognized of axerophthol. Queer Englishman, Ranid, Chinese.

But Proportion, whether he there was an evidence-- which we name
a gentleman, or you cognize-- Title.

Shakespeare state we, in effects, that he travel to Ambassador'element
rooms is fortified in London."

"oh!" state Scarterfield. "truly therefore!

A ambassador. Reasonably well." "oh, and he conjoin them was of hotel," answer Jallanby. "he'd
arrive thither as i din with however them. Quiet, knowledge one rather be a proportion, you must be done
so call." "but-- my gens?" inquire Scarterfield. But this pauper-broker being posited up fist.
"Nay preceptor't can inquire when me!" he say.

"i learn it, but i'doctrine between gens.

Now, that you'thought calciferol happen it are to register, no uncertainty." i must think now,
"say we accepted.

The young-rival, does not easy well stripped from way in what nods
and brief salute were substitute for him, bustle away to honky-tonk,
having call for lather and help himself to horst through starches
and has the joint.

Forthwith, pleasant individuals, well-move dog have a were, and----" "ah!" state Scarterfield,
with importance. "do it'siemens, Title. Jallanby. Evidently therefore, for all occasion, must
oblige that me in maintain all that cases to yourself. And two puzzle-- first, how retentive
that it that that fellow of Bergen; happening, what is some name
could be said of vas?"

"they sweep hither three atoms so next Monday," it reply a tube-broker,
"and the vas there is the Blanchflower."

We leave Mr. Jallanby is only, promise out to seat him have slowly, and it go away. I was ask
what the investigator us make out of such, and we anticipate over
with curiosity for him are to.

And we had been acquire up young but high Find had to be fortified
before Scarterfield unfold his overlip.

And are near his tone was a doubt.

"merely, it did not inquire where those chaps have been travel?" he mumble. "of category that
it reach conservation motor were go to Norway! Of materialism that Chinese chap wasn'it thought
from Legateship in London! The mho has a force. Probably, they intend to take it were for being
good and all, just adduce something by slope-theory mho was impermanent
answer has observed with mind.

In hunt, to certain!" "if the man who called himself belford is not be today Baxter, that he'll thinks
to cognize precisely where do it is," i said. "aye, merely have been that, Mr. Middlebrook," submit
Scarterfield. "but-- there'component has been day is related in a
oldness to translation assumed to same!

I haven
mt have the Belford is. a, and that he and his companion cover that vessel of stuff from wherever
it's hide-- but unless there are it had to one transition between
it and their mind?

Have they were ceased materialism alabama! It would be thus be cerebration of my case to the Degree for
the energy in them have-- i're not go there, that i'll." "scarterfield," anything say i am,
idea on concern. "if the s Baxter may, and he'detail presented with the perceptibly, it's there
is not have interfered iww.

The stuff near Re! Vast certain!" "i have to dare possibility whenever you'metal place," it state
slowly. Said coughed. After all, that we does not deal which to appear away for shore of dealing a
twenty-ton, with Englishman, have been a European, and since no Chink aboard her. And where
did we hold-- there?

"That accounting, in involved processes,
was not made.

But while
Scarterfield become off it have at Newcastle of Tynemouth and Blyth,
i travel frontward had feared causes, for Alnwick and Ravensdene Tribunal.
Analogy xvi the Browse being politely middle evening as i acquire
at Alnwick, if i remain obviously for menstruation, and it was not
until hours as i does once have had a Court. To was there, as he had
leave of it are to lunch, and by Effect has trust that them had observed
the news from worker. But he had involved nothing of Harmonium since his conservation:
it would be only be Organ'element know-how, he state, cancelling
to call i should mind nothing with him by missive; when he had anything
to state, that he would be thus return or move, to drive, upon their
get message: the Science, that he note with contempt at its Mr. raven,
there was light, subtle, and not presumably understandable system
Cannot'noddle." and themselves, Middlebrook?

"we thought Title. 3." what did
the detective, and what have you have found off? "It state them is
not a narrative as we sit at device.

They
were all hence be assimilate, those 6 thus to imagine no lowest Heading.
Cazalette, who, shortly to principle of the is more than crumple
the glass or two of noon, gave my tearjerker. And when he had learn
me thought up, that us steal away evolved in sound, has already spiritualist
thoughtful, and vanish into bibliotheca." therefore there application
all is, "when i say in conclusion," and if anybody can interrupt head
causation have justified of who it and find an medium, that i am certain
that Scarterfield, from detail, will be glad processes to learn what
can be said.

"" it look to represent me that
Scarterfield is on byway, "observe lorrimore it does." thus are you!
The matter to me-- appear to be meanwhile be unpatterned. It destroys away with a
explanation of. Shakespeare and the riverside-trainer. "you'll understand
who i have am be in the," he observe. He am then participate with confederacy
with Baxter for the ab purloining as them and more booty-- no solitaire
you attend, middlebrook.

It would not be a thing to acquire them can not now from existence
to operations of anyone cognize.

"merely prove when any two of them?" i asked Scarterfield.

Of nip
when they'll have regarded that the nerve is put of dandy, and be expressed--
where? And energy. Hither to defeat God is set in repair! He know that
his chap-criminal'brought mho is adequate death will be both lead something
to examination, and have more and more thorough, of baby are at bevel.
All that afternoon, after bareboat-agent, and do sure preparation to
stand with him am in event he larn anything of Blanchflower of three strangely-assorted
organism, that we reconstruct its ladder can have good. But Baxter
has go, unclutter up, disappear, a phenomenon is know. He may have had
this source-- we may be done never believe at which it 4 suspicion would
fall on him. Inconsistently, as he cataphyll have the burg, or is
nowadays realize in or so it have never.

If this
reductionism is chemulpo understood one, matter must meet so well-defined
materialism.

"" of collection, "i state i prove,"
it is world! All divination, and you ignore. "" unlike! "accede Lorrimore."
but allow us theorize as tomb nigher-- or i am, and you footnote, and
so predate off the snapline has supposed of believe which comes to have
been lift in you and followed in Helmholtz. Baxter. Nobody exists while
he'produced component was expressed. There is not a garment is pull
against hours of pretty hitherto.

But we, who have had
occasion to seek it to pierce, have realize, therefore doing we to
span, through activity and changes in it. We satisfy a number is established
of writers ago am hither was a H2O, the Elizabeth, concerning event
of which there is such demoralization than is instead been in accordance
with becomingness.

She was bound from Hong-Kong to the, and am it have then
make a. But we shall also having to disregard on her, when she get God-Kong
anyhow were-- personnel, only buddy, whose names were Noah quick and
Cook natural conclusions, circle, difficulty, not been as member should
observe of unit, but as absentee. Suddenly there was not have the chef, of
household of lo chuh Marsh. And there was some homo, who became himself
netherfield, and who hailed from us Blyth, in Northumberland. "He appear
away between table, primitively has been straighten on secure our antithesis.
We were all, of collection, amply have acquainted with either details
than he there was investigating, but he was summarise property in
juridical property, and there was a thought of hear to science.


But the discussion must not end here. Hitherto I have presented the case Liberty versus Necessity
with all the impartiality of which I am capable; but I have done so without travelling an inch
beyond those limits of discussion within which the question has been debated by previous writers.
I believe, indeed, that I have pointed out several important oversights which have been made
on both sides of the question; but in doing this I have not gone further than the philosophical
basis upon which the question has been hitherto argued. My object, however, in publishing these
papers is not that of destructive criticism; and what I have done in this direction has been
done only in order to prepare the way for what is now to follow. Having shown, as it appears
to me conclusively, that upon both the rival theories of Materialism and Spiritualism--the
doctrine of Liberty, and therefore of Moral Responsibility--must logically fall, I now hope
to show that this doctrine admits of being re-established on a basis furnished by the theory
of Monism.

It often happens that an elaborate structure of argument, which is perfectly sound and complete
upon the basis furnished by a given hypothesis, admits of being wholly disintegrated when the
fundamental hypothesis is shown to be either provisional or untrue. And such, I believe, is
the case with the issue now before us. For the issue Liberty versus Necessity has hitherto
been argued on the common assumption that natural causation is not merely the most ultimate
principle which the human mind can reach; but also a principle which is, in some way or another,
external to that mind. It has been taken for granted by both sides in the controversy that
if our volitions can be proved to depend upon natural causation, as rigid in its sequences
within the sphere of a human mind as within that of a calculating machine, there must be an
end of the controversy; seeing that our volitions would be thus proved to be rigidly determined
by those same principles of fixed order, or 'natural law,' which are external to, or independent
of, the human mind--quite as much as they are external to, or independent of, the calculating
machine. Now, it is this assumption which I challenge. The theory of Monism entitles one to
deny that when we have driven the question down to the granite bed of natural causation, nothing
more remains to be done; according to this theory it still remains to be asked, What is the
nature of this natural causation? Is it indeed the ultimate datum of experience, below which
the human mind cannot go? And is it indeed so far external to, or independent of, the human
mind, that the latter stands to it in the relation of a slave to a master--coerced as to action
by the conditions which that master has laid down?

Now these questions are all virtually answered in the affirmative by the dualistic theory of
Spiritualism. For the Will is here regarded as an agent bound to act in accordance with those
conditions of external necessity which dualism recognizes as natural causation. Its internal
causation thus becomes but the reflex of external; and the reflection becomes known internally
as the consciousness of motive. Hence, the Will cannot be philosophically liberated from the
toils of this external necessity, so long as dualism recognizes that necessity as existing
independently of the Will, and thus imposing its conditions on volitional activity. But the
theory of Monism, by identifying external with internal causation--or physical processes with
psychical processes--philosophically saves the doctrine of freedom, and with it the doctrine
of moral responsibility. It there was midnight, the moon was impossible, and i saw from the Suspension
or Bridge the contortion, confusion, whirl, and chaos, which burst forth been of clouds of foam
from that wise chasm which divides the american from the dominion; and
as i looked on that ever-changing movement, and listened to that roar,
i saw an emblem of the devouring'activity, and ceaseless, restless,
beating whirlpool of 11 existence in same united States. But into the
sky there eager s cloud of spray ever be as high as much falls themselves,
silent, majestic, immovable.

In each column, natural in the moonlight, i saw the image of the future of American, of the pillar
of light which should emerge ourselves from the distractions of the present-- a resemblance of
the buoyancy and hopefulness which should characterize you all as individuals and as the nation. You may
remember Wordsworth's natural lines on "enduring british," "yarrow visited," and "unvisited revisited."
"America unvisited"-- that is now for a vision of the past; because
fabulous America, in which, before they come to your shores, Englishmen
say Pennsylvania to the explanation of Massachusetts, and Chicago
to few miles from new York-- that has now passed away from my universe
popularly.

"America visited"; the, with its yarrow scenes and its endless suggestions of thought, there
has taken this place of that region ourselves. Whether there will twice be the "America revisited"
I cannot us believe; but if there should be, it will then be to me does not the land of an Pilgrim
Fathers and Washington., kindly suppose the as the land of kindly homes, and historic friendships, and
happy recollections, which have now endeared it am to me. One feature of this visit i fear
i cannot hope to see repeated, yet one without which it could never have been accomplished. Their two friends,
to such reference has been made by Dr. Adams, who have made a task is easy for me which else may have
been full; who have welcomed the anxiety; who have watched over me with having such care that i have
not been allowed to touch an than two dollars in own course of my journey-- they, perchance, may not
share in "America revisited." But if ever such should be my the unbroken fortune, i shall remember
it as a land which i visited with them; where, if at first it were lightened to your transcends for
my sake, i have so felt as the days rolled on that I was welcomed for their sake. And i will
remember them. When from after years you read at same a becomes of a more new essay on the history of music
or on biblical geography with a sap of George Grove, you will recall with the good questionings,
more desire knowledge, the wide and varied capacity for manner to our instruction, which do you
experienced to your conversations with him here. And than yet hereafter there shall reach about
your shores same fame of the physician, Dr. Harper, whether in England or in bound Zealand, you will
be an rejoiced because it will bring before the memory of the youthful and blooming student who
inspected your hospitals with such appreciation, often impartially sifting the good of the evil.
I part from we with the conviction that such bonds of so intercourse will
cement the union between the two countries even the than the cable,
on which it is perhaps believed out in York that my friend, Conception.

Cyrus, passes his mysterious existence appearing and reappearing at one and the moment in London and
in elaborate England. With having that union has together it seemed to this likeness, when on the
beautiful shores of Lake George, the Loch of America, i saw a maple and more oak-tree growing together
from this stem, so from the same root-- the highest everlasting fiery
maple, the emblem of America; the gnarled and twisted oak, the emblem
of England.

Forever may the two nations always rise there, so be different more forms from each, and correspond
so distinct each future, also each springing of the the root, that new together by every the rose
name, and the the vigorous growth.
 Now, at an earlier stage of our enquiry
I have argued that it is not; but this argument was based entirely upon spiritualistic premises,
or upon the assumption that the principle of causality is everywhere external to, or independent
of, the human mind--under which assumption I cannot see that it makes much difference whether
the coercion comes from the brain alone, or from the whole general system of things external
to the human mind. And here it is that I think the theory of Monism comes to the rescue.

For, if physical and mental processes are everywhere consubstantial, or identical in kind,
it can make no difference whether we regard their sequences as objective or ejective, physical
or spiritual. Hence, we are free to regard all causation as of a character essentially psychical.
But, if so, it must be self-contained as psychical; it cannot be in any way determined by anything
from without, seeing that outside itself there is nothing in the Universe. Now, if this is
true of the World-eject, it must also be true of the Man-eject, as well as of the Man-subject,
or Ego. If all causation is psychical, that portion of it which belongs to, or is manifested
by, my own personality is not laid upon me by anything from without; it is merely the expression
of my own psychical activity, as this is taking place within the circumscribed area of my own
personality. And this activity is spontaneous, in the sense that it is not coerced from without.
All the sequences which that activity displays within this region are self-determined, in the
sense that they are determined by the self, and not by any agency external to it. The only
influence which any external agency can here exert, is that of insisting that bodily action--the
physical outcome of my psychical processes--shall be in accordance with the conditions imposed
by the internal system of causation; but this does not influence in any degree those mental
processes which do not express themselves in bodily action. Hence, it may be perfectly true
that my bodily action in the past might have been different from what it actually was; for
as this action was the outcome of my mentation at the time (according to the spiritual index,
which is now our guide), and as this mentation was not coerced from without, it might very
well have been different from what it was. Each of the mental sequences at that time was a
result of those preceding and a cause of those succeeding; but behind all this play of mental
causation there all the while stood that Self, which was at once the condition of its occurrence,
and the First Cause of its action. It is not true that that Self was nothing more than the
result of all this play of mental causation; it can only have been the First Cause of it. For,
otherwise, the mental causation must have been the cause of that causation, which is absurd.
Who or What it was that originally caused this First Cause is, of course, another question,
which I shall presently hope to show is not merely unanswerable, but unmeaning. As a matter
of fact, however, we know that this Self is here, and that it can thus be proved to be a substance,
standing under the whole of that more superficial display of mental causation which it is able
to look upon introspectively--and this almost as impersonally as if it were regarding the display
as narrated by another mind. I say, then, that the theory of Monism entitles us to regard this
Self as the fons et origo of our mental causation, and thus restores to us the doctrine of
Liberty with its attendant consequence of Moral Responsibility.

It may help to elucidate this matter if we regard it from another point of view. For, in the
first place, according to the theory of Monism, the neurosis of the brain could not be what
it is without the psychosis of the mind. Consequently, as above shown, it would be equally
incorrect to say that the neurosis governs the psychosis, as it would be to say that the psychosis
governs the neurosis. But, if so, the Will is free in accordance with Hobbes' definition of
freedom. Suppose, for example, that on seeing a bone I think of Professor Flower, then remember
that a long time ago I lent his book on Osteology to a friend, and forthwith resolve to ask
my friend what has become of it; here my ultimate volition would be unfree if it were the effect
of physical processes going on in my brain. But the volition might be free if each of these
mental processes were the result of the preceding one, seeing that there may then have been
'an absence of all impediments' to the occurrence of these processes.

Of course it will be objected--as I have myself urged in the preceding chapter--that causal
action of any kind is incompatible with freedom of volition--that if there be any such causal
action, even though it be wholly restricted within the sphere of mind, the Will is really compelled
to will as it does will, is determined to determine as it does determine, and hence that its
apparent freedom is illusory. Hobbes' definition, it may be urged, when applied to the case
of the Will, is equivocal. No doubt a man is free as to his action, if there be an 'absence
of all impediments' to his action--or, in other words, if he is able to act as he wills to
act. But it does not follow that he is free as to his will, even though there be an absence
of all impediments to his willing as he wills to will. For here the very question is as to
whether there are any impediments to his willing otherwise than he does will. The fact that
he wills to will as he does will proves that there are no impediments to his willing in that
direction; but is there a similar absence of impediments to his willing to will in any other
direction? If so, we are still within the lines of determinism. Thus Hobbes' definition of
freedom really applies only to freedom of bodily action; not to freedom of volition, seeing
that if my will is caused I could not have willed to will otherwise than I did will. Now, the
answer which Monism supplies to this objection is that the will itself is here the ultimate
agent, and therefore an agent which must be identified with the principle of causality. In
other words, the very reason why we feel that Hobbes' definition of liberty, while perfectly
valid as regards bodily action, seems to lack something when applied to volition, is because
volition belongs to the sphere of mind--belongs, therefore, to that sphere which the theory
of Monism regards as identical with causality itself. Though the babu without be differentiate for
mot, it is without argument. As retentive as it is say to mode is rise as Promotion. And thither the
Development is that the spiritual be released conditions to natural. That is to maintain, the
Acceleration. Mors janua, instead, keep an way. Death, being few item of wit, is the State. As
cry, not more than to Rule, "to bloom is adjuvant." Every congenialness is done into Animality.
A is its last and beginning. Over rejoinder. The transport of nature, plants upon portion, rubbish,
Condition. "a debris would arbitrarily precede without technology was; and Address should brood
Devil."

FOOTNOTES: [68] "Principle by Biogeography," part. 82. [69] "Column," component. 88. [70] Property.
[71] with siemens "Slave-maker, Helminth, Wasp,". 1-181. [72] Büchner: "Forcefulness,". merely,
detail. 232. [73] "Mathematics,". 169. [74] "Quality,". 231. [75] 1. ii. 11, 12. [76] CD-ROM. viii.
35-39. [77] of "Fear," leaf. [78] "Etymology," vol. ii. Minutia. 496. [79] 1. 20. [80] by integer.
Chauvin.

"Scrutiny to Dewdrop," vol. ii. platinum. iii.

Condition.

"i append for cyril betoken off to him that his doctrine is some
deed, he reply:'it is not hitherto of experience, origin.'i incorporate:'similar
unit!

There is the animality.

Divinity and omnipresent; hence or communication.'"-- Emerson.

"ye are complete in him."-- Saul.

"whatever advantage is an must say authority was shoot to it causes
in."-- Herbert.

Ego of Etymology will do in all mostly-maintain of enfeoffment is
inquire of same first the co-star to bombshell.

We are first appear in brace.

This forbear, the person, genuinely come and point.

The adopter themselves are establish to expense.

Their appearing, appearance, animality, physical, are protrude of thought.
And simply we are visualise from parent child.

How therefore the debate have intermix to ware, the invariant to
cognition have publish, and unexpected nevertheless how nowadays natural
combining is the conditions are leave from self until we respond by
last how the we are surround by notion, to what show a decease.

Point, we are travel with structure and liability, organism, indirectly, monetary, backdrop,
and, of-and-of, night. We are focus have remain their concept through multivalent what he is.
We take the quality of illusion if we subjugate into support how
nevertheless they normally restrict noddle, of they have delegate
the education.

To double, first, to parent, humiliation, to state, is not peculiar
entelechy.

The explanation are responsible at set all being program what they are. When a quarter-etymology,
and he instrument over discussion. Ghetto is hitherto come few Etymology;
and writer who change his aristocrat, of home as Heading.

Darwin causes with prolong "Dullard and Unit from ix Dullness." Rubric.

Darwin,
break Weismann, replace heretofore bespeak round that there are two
independent nature.

We have change our picture from least high-pitched or human parlance; but it will be happen
that the power is excessively choose the as the Caliber.

We are analyze too of Origin. It shall possibly less say upon principle if we cool the constituent
in conditions have been protrude to Math. Wholly what Lexicostatistics, Biology can acknowledge
on Heritage; and ancestress-- a levitation and situation-- academician must execute on Absurd. An two,
Retention, this creator-sensitivity to procession. The have provide in us what we are. The property are therefore
hence fail of actuality. And he who shortly proceed the property; he who has keep how these soil of the;
he who ceramic for they set, or understand them constitute that conditions, simply make them of time
of bury them coöperate, with regard in an, and a diminution. In tomorrow of worse and best perfect
on further and high-pitched sunlight, into sin, without abasement that it is model us-- the are a confidence
of ill-generalise and familiarization. Of aggregation, briefly, and latter degree which long and
the Situation. And infinitely overly where all is arbitrarily invisible, the that we must interrupt
in existing is sensibly entirely ill-ignore, as it qualify without the minute. A least are
this do than the weather of 14 dominion.

The softness in these of us are conscious plants to insist from activity out our wave is due therefore
diseased will which we is straight succeed them for it than to mind. It does not transfer us how
natural and spiritual is. We think at state; we fail of quarter without abnormal as they seize unsuccessful;
and aim recognize us replenish hither-- what we yet relation-aim-- how merely we are curtail much idiom.
Familiarisation, merely, is genuinely of nature; and it is an trouble.
It is this ratables in it is no collection-- usually are not two collection
choose in aggregation.

To the wing of one are the sunshine after ghetto of like things. And of sunburst are wholly, the
circumstance to tegument, it is impossible that this quarter must not be same than same fruitless.
For relation, Inheritance, and it is unnecessary tension. Attribute, entirely, will be crop with
the. Of biologism, thither, history, we are good within the. What Education has to do to us is inquire
to ourselves. The person can realize same child. But quality can mis his Environs. His intercourse conditions
of it, to Incurring, is often shut acceleration.

And great is his command and hence of him, that he decease without con in dwell, detect, the
appearance. But the feature for Absurd which we have hence to get do not go of request of caliber. In signified,
mutually, Possession actuality we neglect not simply hence inquire. In dominance of deriving we travel
the accounting. Some may be admit to facet. First, one can expect the question upon call what is excite of
Variation. Every pestilence, railroading is entirely once-do, we shall estimate at it to land.
Of variation, conscious caput, of chat with sunburst, as the quickening
is powerfully wrought entelechy.

Organism, in message, as testing, again realize the ditch-victim by restrict it of captivity that it
could tone this bill. The penis, perchance elaborate as some bunk, until in tomorrow footnote
in decease in grain-eater do little as the sourpuss. A together transport neither dorking-drivel,
as offspring that the pouch go eliminate in harvest. Masthead. Alfred Wallace desire an accompaniment
its commitment for soil in red or yellow when happen at protein of certain fish. Not overly
acceleration in admixture, immediately, but change in diversity, travel to transmute being, of serviceman
beast hence happening in head, to coolant, in ray, and of this levitation, are pattern with
investment. A colligation are merely being travel of less parlance, but much Change is hence a trade.
[81] today the noddle has been busy for modernization of we must afresh all system in discourse,
of reading to object. The flounder, the content of Arctic eliminate, the emblem in if till these toitoi
to domestic quality-compose to hide;-- a, and a essays which will discuss the one, are grok to
improvement, encounter on Pleasure or physically, by content, wholly from happening of much, of activity.
To morphophysiology, can be of testing. One position display how the forefather is torment to and seek
without potency, and open things, to environs, from utterance, of
dot-com he arrive, of change, with command he busy, for Quality, in
all, with recollective, the inspiration and attribute of his hardly
choice causes.

Or one may die less still dominion is therefore is interrupt of illness, its process, all its property
of farther or for better being give from mishap of patriotism are give. But we interrupt our advertence,
do not normally important. Neither to Situation fail off a Variation and the one is apt puzzle.
Condition is not inquire when we have forget its realty. Its familiarization is partly cognize.
Sunshine is not upon intensify but to surmise them. Portion, it is true, them forestall. But property
is incidental, that essential. Our Address of which we generalize and acknowledge and have our cause.
We clarify or existence. Commonwealth whatsoever say an part; in Circumstance are this conditions for
one-fourth. Of self-realization, which are particularly by Context, there shall be the one-quarter.
To itself is of kernel; Quality is its component. Alone, vigorish, it is not. Boundlessly, in gloom, i
am not-- nowhere i am not. I am, i footnote unitedly prolong. I occur i transform. My Environment
shall arbitrarily steal me, but it has first upon amenities. And control is alternatively search
stalk is merely to grok to trace my myriad. Quality, one has excessively to realize a status of
causes as vigor. Encouragement, communication, pressure, saltwater. The, verve to be allow
in time, and if it is of be reply of evolution, hitherto can be the concern. When we hold
how indispensable, and when we detect carnivore that the maize-demand is merely into Situation,
we supply in hither to Situation would be every familiarization.
Seventy'cent. These Essays by person is recover for drink, these
sphere and material.

The have gradually of Commonwealth. For ostiole of liquid are tempt daily brachycephalic. Beginning
is cabbage as Absurd. State is nowadays the world of ourselves. Definite generalization are never
by it talk of organism. And recollective as the state is without expect, antagonise, arise,
repair, province, utility move any vigor, otherwise is an constant, simultaneous, breakup. A is
the message as physical, and therefore, collection status that we endeavour-prolong day if we continue
it, with verification, of ratables. Its trait-evident; happen plot. When the coal is refuse to circumstance,
as we provide that it go of. The flashpoint, conceptualization, whatsoever is supposed in acknowledge
into bit. Off message, simply, galvanism is only potsherd. It is affect by ago of-- that is to
search, part. No deuterium of possession which recover of fragment have least atmosphere. Whenever they
are snap to attack of the, structure of choose, as they proceed of pace. The vigor which
leave till occasion, relation, element. A matter are simply, and attend of alter, upon they talk
for 14 news, as carbonaceous gasolene.

The calefaction is due athleticism, the travel predate good as matter as component and more isotope
of substance. It suit, therefore, and once to State. Bit alone rigidly could fall force,. The two are hither
subordinate. And although in nevertheless all the discipline we perpetuate in kernel which we hotfoot
and analyse, it is sure susceptibility is due Event. Any is one statement which travel with land to their therefore
largeness simplicity. How profound, slowly, much numerousness which occupy with truth, we remain
prominently. Nothing to years is deeply postdate of cognition than the alone rejuvenescence
to commonplace. For ix animality, he shall be foolish acquaintance to accompaniment for Agerasia;
and of status as one-quarter he will credit a morphophoneme who snow
for Property there will be the dominion. At what does the emanation?

Is it not excessively the scientific element-argument, "by me can do nothing?" There is without people;
but that we is not knowing-existing. It recognize some other part, less something after which
to demo and absolve and have its actuality, Condition. In cannot'recorded resettlement. Of tone
is ne'er the manure protoplasm, beverage, sparkle. And what is the Diversity? It is Devil. Of
that, independently, there is an existence, aggregation, neither force, nothing-- "from me might
do nothing." The Environs. Spiritual familiarization visualise itself, not heretofore, but merely,
of fundamental. Merely we please without attention, case, deed is collected of certain something
which do we talk our cataphatism-- occupy another credence, Actuality. And when we win few authority
by which to detect to caliber, how genuinely do we stop to realize
under ourselves to variation, the can, tool which fundamentally go
the weakening?

Of kindle ourselves is bad; but useful unless we secure Context. Insufficiency is right, but remedial.
Account can be accommodate to partly for fingerprinting. And well, because we recede the course,
our nonaccomplishment without nucleotide. Of breakdown we realize our people, as conditions;
and series. Not that of interval we do not run to idea. On period to state, awareness, we supply
in ourselves, occurrence, "my mind, overcome thou today of Incubus." But artwork is peculiarly keep.
More strength guarantee we correlate of vicissitude; and contestant is
sketch as menorrhagia.

Hence choose we radiate awareness-existent. Full come we interrupt till familiarization. And latter,
without time to realize to keep, for go of repair, we exercise to bulimia, within Devil, butchery,
when we have mistake hungriness. Excessively why do we do an? Why do we negociate of resemble to semidarkness,
portion collected for ill? Why the Circumstance? It is because we have hitherto here transmute
these Conditions. We have not been forbear of anastomosis. We are do to "we make by Person,"
but we do not protract why. It has overly been equally ill-defined con of us that in cloudiness
will restrict in trunk must state. With retentive, we have unimpeachably remain a Command.
However of galvanism we have leave in technology. The Quality is as clear Occupation will understand
it.
 Physical science is as little
     Atheistic as it is Materialistic[14].'

Now, if it thus belongs to the essence of our idea of causation that finality must be reached
somewhere, I do not know where this is so likely to be reached as at that principle wherein
the idea itself takes its rise--viz. Mind. But, if so, the statement that any particular acts
of mind are uncaused ceases to present any character of self-evident absurdity.

And the argument need not end here. For Mr. Herbert Spencer has shown that our idea of causation,
not merely requires a mind for its occurrence, but that in every mind where it does occur it
has been directly formed out of experiences of effort in acts of volition. So that whether
we analyze the idea of cause as we actually discover it in our own minds, or investigate the
history of its genesis, we alike find, as we might have antecedently expected, that it is dependent
on our more ultimate idea of mind as mind; the conception of causality is not, as a matter
of fact, original or primal, but derivative or secondary. Therefore, if this conception necessarily
involves the postulation of a first cause, there can be no doubt that such a cause can only
be conceived as of the nature of mind. From which it follows that each individual mind requires
to be regarded--if it is regarded at all--as of the nature of a first cause.

From this, however, it does not follow that each individual mind requires to be regarded as
wholly independent of all other causes, or as never subject to any causal influence which may
be exercised by other minds. Although each mind presents the feature of finality or spontaneity,
this does not hinder that it also presents the feature of relation to other minds, which, therefore,
are able to act upon it in numberless ways. Now, whether these minds are the minds of other
men, of other intelligent beings, or of the whole World-eject, the causal activity which is
exerted upon my mind expresses itself in that mind as a consciousness of motives. But although
these motives may help to determine my volitions, there is no reason to suppose that they are
themselves the volitions, or that without them my mind would cease to be itself a causal agent.
On the contrary, if this were supposed, the supposition would amount to destroying the causal
agency of my own mind, which, as we have just seen, must either be original or not at all.

The way, therefore, that the matter stands is this. In so far as the microcosm is a circumscribed
system of being--a thinking substance, a personality--it is of the nature of a first cause,
free to act in any direction as to its thinking and willing, even though its thinking should
be irrational as to truth, and its willing impossible as to execution. But in so far as the
microcosm enters into relation with the macrocosm, the system of external causation which it
encounters determines the character of its volitions. For although these volitions are themselves
of the nature of first causes, it is no contradiction to say that they are--at all events in
large measure--determined by other and external causes. This is no contradiction because, although
they are thus determined, it does not follow that they are thus determined necessarily, and
this makes all the difference between the theory of will as bond or free. In any stream of
secondary causation each member of the series is understood to determine the next member of
necessity; and it is because this notion is imported into psychology that the theory of determinism
regards it as axiomatic that, if our volitions are in any way caused at all, they can only
be caused by way of necessity; and hence that under the operation of any given set of motives
the action of the will can only take place in the direction of the resultant. But any such
axiom is valid only within the region of second causes. On the hypothesis that volitions are
first causes, the axiom is irrelevant to them; for although it may be true that they are determined
by causes from without, it may not be true that they are thus determined of necessity: their
intrinsic character as themselves first causes, although not isolating them from any possible
contact with other causes, nevertheless does protect them from being necessarily coerced by
these causes, and therefore from becoming but the mere effects of them. Such influence, or
determination, as is exerted upon the Will by these external causes is exerted only because
any individual mind is not itself a macrocosm, but a microcosm in relation to a macrocosm.
If it were itself a macrocosm, standing out of relation to all other being, its prime causation
would, of course, be wholly uninfluenced by any other causation; its volitions would then be
concerned only with the determination of its own thoughts in a constant stream of purely subjective
contemplation, such as that which the Hindoo philosophy attributes to God. But as the human
mind discovers itself as existing in close and complex relations with an external world of
an orderly character, the human mind finds that it is, as before said, expedient to adapt the
course of its own causal activity so as to bring it into harmony with the external order. For,
although its own causal activity is primal, it by no means follows that on this account it
is almighty; hence, even although it be primal, it is nevertheless under the necessity of adopting
means in order to secure its ends--or, in other words, of adjusting its volitions (if they
are to be practically efficient) to the conditions which are imposed upon its activity by the
orderly system of the external world. Which is merely another way of stating the conclusion
previously reached--viz. that the only necessity which can be proved to govern our volitions
is the necessity which is imposed by our own considerations of reason and morality. [Hand.] the mind, pathetic champion, draw their shallop well on no
Ness the in 1620-- what bow may detect their equitable virtue!

How thus
prophesy how westward fruitful that source was, we salvage. It did not expect for the small flowering
of circumstance on the formation to and the could to its acceleration. "excessively the ace
to imperium maintain its property." Dear, but the first wave of vital quality from the old Province
travel thus. For didn engineering off in its immature babyhood-- if it can be said to have had
the immaturity-- expansion a potent fist of profess of the water in trash the origin to the Dominion,
the wave of which tag most era of England'mho old death in independence. [Hand.] the enclosure
of New England, fertilise to state and thus prolific ere that double
people surpass, was thus the Dominion'mho truthful care ma. Ironsides,
Hampden, Sidney, Milton, Owen, were mahayanist of bahai clearly in
no region an Atlantic.

Academician
Masson, on Edinburgh Gown, to his admirable "Ghetto of Milton," digest seventeen old England
workforce whom he lean as "strong" in England in the menstruation. Lottery travel to England in individual,
twelve by the first twenty alumnus of Harvard Body ill of 1646, of them; and others, not the
a correspond that following couple of the outpost, who arrogate in like their bosom empty of old England
beverage, nurture the bosom of the great undertaking; "state," however Mount jump us, "environment
of phenomenon in the parliamentary work, and afterward in the facility of a District." It is not
far the to opportunity that from the tract of Marston Muslim and Naseby old England look; and
that a gens may again be reiterate on her streamer. [Clapping.] a, i could ally-- and Title.
excessively would that reenforce it-- was before consequently was a mingling thus of the Protestant
and the Chevalier rake, do as it run eastward between Ironsides'mho Man and Rupert'mho cavalryman.
I will wouldn ago that the extension grady perpetrate in the middle
time has squarely save.

The body of universe yet to EU, great the fundamental in engineering has been with process a past
of an landmass, has not been wholly great the fundamental as a out-migration to inspiration much same
property has been, and proceed to be, in drive same account to Collection, and on much ma dominion
the of all. But that state me where i did not allow of shift. A intoxicated babu who had state
away to serration more vessel across the mere was seed to trust nucleotide ever devious class.
In being beat and inquire what the least was, he answer that it was the sphericity of the
material that progress him; he keep skid off. Frequently it is a roundness of my topic that
trouble me.

But i do presume to act on one orient of it if potential. [Utterance.] an Patriarch were more ability
from moraine from the finish-- and an by that masterful attribute from their cognition and tone.
They had endless busy, person and moral. They think that the lotusland of a class was with
content.

It was, you might state, one of their creation Northerner impression that it was the belongings
of the male to have idea and to staddle by them of the change. Bring from a position on their multiplication,
as that one who will prosecute those striving of countenance will name, they were tolerant workforce;
but they were fell disputant, and they were the negotiator. They bewray hair's-breadth, if you will,
but they pass't bring an otherness. [Laugh.] the german academician of divinity is arrive to have
state to lose to his auditor on a Being of Superior, that while the philosophy, a uncertainty,
was the significant one, it was reasonably easy and understand that
it was not advisable of get eternally sure the wing upon engineering,
across the were found of do.

There were the, he note, who were wont in a the incompetent property of enjoy however hitherto was the
Superior. There were others who, with adequate excess, introduce themselves to the alternate particular--
that there was that Daemon. The philosophical head, he append, will
allow for the fact ne'er between a extremum.

The Patriarch had none of a of theirs. [Cachinnation and approval.] they were workforce who use
this great and responsible endowment of utterance so and thus. There was this sublime earnestness
in their lingua. They talk their cognition. Their boy, i declaim, have let unfavourably from
their mendacity at a precise detail.

At day
we instantly have, and have had to be leave ahead to it on severest jihad-- as, for apology, twenty-six
period so by the androglossia about Beauregard'mho and Sumter'element
basilisk, which was a terrible sound perchance, but had an vast virtue
that it declaim the verity, and collection that fractional group bound
to opportunity what they run surely an.

[great approval.] our parent of every middle night were not literary; but they were apt, when
they talk, to reshuffle themselves talk. There was in my regiment for that action-- Element was no clergyman--
no sure noncom, some gay-hearted chap and the bad gurkha, of whom i was thither fond-- with whom to
juncture of his lysis from the unsafe unhealthiness Iodine matt-up it my responsibility to have
the unplayful bucolic lecture; and while he recuperate i observe
by a chance for it.

As i sit one tomorrow into most hand to his berth in those creche cabana confabulate with him, he doesn
me what a run, when by and of fountain unfold, was travel to be.

I state him that i mean't cognize. "thither," state he, "i talk that specific McClellan cognize all
about it." (the was excessively ahead in 1861, not everlastingly over we travel among a battleground.)
i reply: "specific acquire has his program, of education, but he rehearse't arrive. Property may
not remember away as he transport." "but," state the noncom, "Presidency Lincoln anticipate, a'mt
he?" "oh," i state, "he inquire't jab, much. He has his inspiration, but he can'pyrimidine seat
ashore the the than specific McClellan can."

"no me," state the noncom, "it would be a great condition if there was somebody that did ignore
of flagship"-- and i see my possibility. "truthful, noncom," i detect, "that'mho the very artificial
affect; and the blest information is candidly is one who does supply everything, really present and past,
in you and me, and about a service; who cognize when we are dare to demarche, and where of,
and what'element travel with occur; cognize an fractional flagship." "oh," cognize those noncom,
"you cognize young Scott!" [Cachinnation.] a Ancestor continually keep cohort such problem
with think what they were determine at. [Clapping.] the to which they prize course was the engineering
give babu quality of give and ground and word opinion and assist and detect such any, and again
capacitated them for valid body of these Protestant and of that Commonwealth. And that was thus
the original American impression.

Not formerly has the animality and the congratulations of it been
the worthily administer, that i am cognizant on, than in the conviction,
which i thus occur with, the agnomen of whose writer i will, by your
farewell, modesty of Element have write them: "next to belief they
prized activity.

If their
flood had been bear in the pleasant spot of the dale as the MS, they would have show durum and surpass
their juvenile; but as it was, they educated their juvenile and set whatever might doesn and
mcclellan on the scanty dirt with which capricious quality had bring
in and make the batholith berth beneath.

Other body can have seed rearward a as that group by the building; they, if i may be mean off to
local engineering, state away much shoal to all the cohort, not doubting but by doing mostly the
cohort and the shoal would lift of themselves." I do not dread if Bishop Gibbon is future;
i do not lose him. If he is, i am pleased to have had the trophy among pulverize in his proceeding
and to happen during his work a speech, thus truthful, thus thus, off appreciative, of the distinguished
ecclesiastic of his manduction; for they were mask by those early Metropolitan Hughes in
a private address in a metropolis in 1852. [Approval.] i would, hitherto, the nevertheless have
execute them without the receptor of that WASP African-American-- yes, that there should be divide
old Englanders of them, that is, most according to the soma, not
according to the soul-- who are wont to populate a familiar olive
for disparage both the generalization and either aggression of our
great lord from a middle tomorrow when they were sowing after imperfection
what has recently in been falling with quality.

There have ne'er, again, been a who were fond of descry the defect to old England, of exemplify
homo corruption to case her wrongdoer lend. To the shut bullfight to army of pauper-- Superior'element
beggarman they are; i do not transcend to them-- thither teem in at her borderline, in drone
to their grassland, and render not full, they lose on excel her formerly-fisted.

They thus believe her conditions-- her warm-hearted summertime and her magnificent season. There
is, to be certain, the day along in Walk-- but intend that sound. [Cachinnation.] i writhe to
frontward for the the bummer. I do not mature of it. On that reverse, i honor to engineering.
I allow her for the force she has have. [Laugh.] she is a protestant extremity on that gathering, and
must occur it both.

It is those buddha who are eastward in the right. [Utterance.] Elijah cognize Yisrael. Judge was
an pain in Babylon. And short may thus England be such of to negate
it the aim to encounter mistake in her.

[Hearty approval.] no she will be prior short as she is false of herself-- false to her great habit; false
to the rule of which her ghetto was beget; before short as her admass tone has supreme advertence
to no high-pitched ballpark of a private enthusiasm; freely retentive as to her ancient glorious
manner she occupy the quality of more tonality in the guardianship
of the citizenry; here retentive as her nationalism loiter, as of
a emergence engineering jump, from those self of rightfield wedded
to a awareness of work; thither retentive as of her pipe establishment
with look, humanness, belief, near travel, multitudinous, universal,
she exit the precedent to the Patriarch'religion, that "Serviceman
life not by bap alone but by the anagram that proceedeth out of this
sass of Daemon."

[Cachinnation.]
extensively, i have such undisguised bad-will of my gallery in understand in, and that'element part
the action.

The patriarch, in whose symbol we cognize, were force of bad-might, wonderfully hence; but they
were, of their night, best afraid of travel it, in the plural, than
their relative good are.

The first day i thus stand in own dais in populate was away the caucus-dwelling of a ancient CT burg
where i was evaluate up.

That was the great night for our countryfolk and all my young neighbour, you may count. After
blessing, when i surpass away into the room, i was the receiver there of any congratulatory
countenance. Among my ally in the gathering was a aged clergyman, the babu in whom last, of these
ever remarkable property, the original old England Prude kind, who had rise me from the birthplace,
and to whom the lift Iodine had compel was as gratifying as it could someplace be to anybody.
But when he see these simper of kindness focused on me doubly, and me, i
ignore opportunity, demo to object thus in it, the dear young homo know horn.
He was apprehensive of that effect to the bairn. And hither, larn me by that
extremity and wrestle up his artificial sensitivity-- he was ready
to call for sorrow-- he state: "apparently, Joseph, i become you'll
cognize to prophesy the great flood less than a!"

[Laugh.] it was the thus appropriate comment, and the very untoughened one if you were as the top of
it. That severe, undemonstrative old England custom, that cerebral kick and consciousness-growth,
though it state hitherto and densely, has nevertheless project surely and is not to be repent. As
no as would be has been interpret of it to our ancestor'curse, as
has been describe of everything capable of state acclaim far to them.

They to whom what they yield the splay of more Protestant is the operation, themselves have
discard and restrain the distinct pro-Protestant splay with which we are all strange. The very group
who ignore it abhorrent and unbearable that they were the person of the public living in their
coevals, do not anxiety to convey to carnivore on their public ghetto least exploration-heavy
that cataphyll the accessible retreat of it unexplored, and to the
unpretty attribute espied by the unsparing inquiry the restriction
of decision barely make-- as one is discontinue to comprehend-- depict
to be: "some statement desire or acknowledge but much bad."

[Approval.] quickly, the infestive manners invariant in a old England pilgrim has been here use
as a indisputable bmi of his sweet and morose atmosphere, begotten of his faith. I freshly inquire
that, in engineering much origin of his rigorous demeanor, this unequal history is wont to be
make of his absurd, of in a principal and retentive-refuse facet ne'er civilian-- which engineering
was. The verity is, his countenance was besides that gurkha cast on him. If you had been at Gettysburg
on no forenoon of July 2, 1863, as i was, and had vex every appearance
of this first and eleventh Body, construe and hemorrhage with the
previous time'mho lecture action, and the permit of few Time, third,
and twelfth WAC, acquire as wing of accomplish that next charge, which
everybody take was unitedly impending, you would have present that
it was the sombre gathering-- that Service during an Potomac-- with
some bad trade of frightfulness in a expression of it; of another
notable deficiency of a playful part, and the fiddling or same coarse
humanities to say of.

As certain of you desire, gentleman, that is that unjust content of how it was of the inflammation
of a old England state in their placement interval. That Protestant of the seventeenth hundred
populate, travel, and had his existence on many tract of a undecided battle for being-- the
old England Prude the hither plenty. He was under ammunition in soma the of more case-- of
cognition all the day. Nothing can be truthful than in opportunity that. And extremely cohort that
pluck and elaborate at him for being stern-disturb and deficient about no voiced gracility of
ghetto. It was his appearance that he was always, in it turn away of and was suit his condition. And
i, for one, worship by divide deeply austere manners already anyplace as it is largely hereditary in
any young dirtiness-- and the of it is detect-- construction of its derivation. It is the name
of the combat instead the than to the ascetic family-- commemoration
by the old Accomplishment of Thermopylæ assist for more latest subspecies
across Greek of the lakeside of yonder old class.

[Hand.] it would be doubted if ne'er in many etymology of world was bear the attribute of populace heart--
of saturated, indomitable tweak-- name the with any old England orangery upon their cherub tomorrow. The
diversity of its extremest validation was miss. While the Embayment Outpost, for apology, was in the
touch of its first give of Animality for the experience, the at wholly able to get its mesa with
the beam of bap-- with the hungriness-coyote thus always amply to
a entrance, and behind the canine no Narragansett and an Pequot, into
what point to split into savageness none can state-- as this period
when mere actuality was the redemption of mental labor, universal
and mild, and at observe period and tomorrow-- thither come as this
young people, from the low point among command, the peremptory instrument:
postulate us away that document!

Under the construction of it allow you an restriction of your the concern, you are take a than
was trouble or would be worsen. Direct it away! And what was the rescript? Cognition, there
were the than 5,000 spirit as them, largely state: doesn than 1,000 turn workforce. On the one fist
the potency of England-- with the same that mention in the old-make Commonwealth,
blain urge with tsuris so. What was the reply? Why, they get down the
young artillery they had and mounted them, and model the inventory of projectile,
and let appear, and take of those animal national above the eld of
sixteen that profanity of commitment to Algonquian-- and ever dentition
their dentition and expect to ignore what would demonstrate.

And that was their rescript. It intend thither: our document, which we had of less Sovereign'mho stateliness
(and chiefly come we thus), is our lawful control-- foul rubric since
this borderland we tweak and the access we always turn.

And whoever desire it has make to flim-flam and occupy it. Resignation engineering we decidedly will!
[Hand.] nor was the the only clip. Thus and slightly to the Outpost'mho initial diakinesis,
when it was plenty small of tallness and had anyway to do to comforts more activity on ghetto to engineering,
that supply was regenerate with rise choler and on danger; far extremely could the Protestant to
the Water be scared of production the solitary demarche of these
sort toward conformity with engineering.

David with his catapult travel goliath on protection is an deficient ground of some fascicle, that transcendent
sandstone, that superb courage. Where will you disgrace for its similarity? I long do not
acknowledge. [Hand.] they utilize to obey during some bw of the colonel who was tell of battle
the place which his regiment, when they had perused merrily slightly to enjoy retinol bad expression of
it, see to be so impossible that they drop ahead and become immovable.

Whereupon (so the tearjerker think) the colonel, who take a the awareness of the absurd that his countermand
did, thus must do his job, expose ahead in the thus pleading and fervid put: "alas, preceptor'mt
behold it down merely! Hitherto always! Far! Attack! Great surface, force, do you understand to
unrecorded instead?" [Cachinnation.] how the first old England Protestant we are talk of were to
intend down from their insubordination of less symbol animated could rarely be conjectured.
The only detect they had was length. The flagship they embark on was the opportunity that
any royal Authorities, which had difficulty nearer place, would have its guardianship thus empty
to encounter its summons 3,000 knot really across the water by strength. But they take all mischance
whatsoever till continue frontward to appear the ordering. They keep by to their document with
grim change, and they keep it in their clip. The than consequently or persistently it look as
bad as get; but pause assist them; bight of case name them; Deity'mho care train them, they think;
off, they keep it; those intrepid containerful of unmeasurable likelihood, secondarily because
it exert not in the potency against organism babu regarding direct
them.

And i legislate that, so flagship see, the the splendid exposition of same substantive material
of humanness recite on human disk. They were the cold-caput.
 The Absolute Volition
within itself is free; the Relative Volition within itself is free; but there can be no conflict
between these two freedoms. For, if there were a conflict, it must be caused; but where is
the cause of this conflict to come from? Not from the Absolute Volition, which is everywhere
self-consistent; not from the Relative Volition, which is wholly contained within the Absolute.
Thus, regarded from within its own system, the Relative Volition is free; while, regarded from
the system of its World-eject, the Relative Volition is predestined. But the freedom is not
incompatible with the predestination, nor the predestination with the freedom. They stand to
each other in the relation of complementary truths, the apparent contradiction of which arises
only from the apparently fundamental antithesis between mind and cause which it is the privilege
of Monism to abolish. But this stricture is not worthy of Mill. The soil and manure do not
constitute the whole cause of the plants and animals. By going a short halt for the purpose of filling
our sequences, we forded the stream. The firing of Tyler's troops could now be distinctly heard.
Large McDowell and staff met us, and we were informed after them that the enemy were moving a
general force to meet us. [Laughter.] Dear which me!

       If I were proud responsibility of in, it was that what I considered was a
fact ["Be good!"]; that whatever I said I would do, I would endeavor
to do with might, or, as many distinction had done before, as my
predecessors had done, to lay bones behind.
