It is difficult to get at the truth about the state of the labour market in New South Wales.
The newspaper accounts are most conflicting. One writer asserts that any man with honesty and
determination can make his living at any time; another speaks of the numbers of skilled artisans
who cannot get employment. But if some of these latter have the fastidious tastes above mentioned,
it will be seen that the destitution is to a certain extent artificial. But reasoning on these
subjects speedily merges in the ocean of Free Trade v. Protection, upon which I will not further
touch. Sydney is the oldest town in the Colonies, having been founded in 1788. It has quite
the air of an old established place--the abode of men for generations. The principal streets
run East and West the whole length of the town down to the harbour, a distance of nearly four
miles. In the centre is Hyde Park, a prettily laid-out piece of 40 acres, but the most beautiful
spot is the Botanical Gardens, which slope down to the water's edge. Especial pains have been
taken to render them an admirable specimen of horticulture. Nearly every tree and shrub that
will grow in this climate is here to be found. Near them is the "National Gallery," where may
be seen many paintings that a few years ago graced the walls of Burlington House. The chief
attraction during my visit was a copy of Miss Thompson's, "Roll Call," said to be by the artist
herself. £4000 was to be given for it on proof of its authenticity, but it did not require
the eye of a connoisseur to judge that such proof was not likely to be forthcoming, and so
it proved. It is evidently an inferior copy by another hand. The principal residential street
is Macquarie Street, which faces the public gardens. Six years ago an Exhibition was held in
these gardens. The building was mysteriously burned down, no doubt by incendiarism, but it
was never found out, though it was jokingly said it was the act of some inhabitant of Macquarie
Street, for the building quite obstructed their view.

I have before said that rents in Melbourne are very high. In Sydney they are much higher. The
small house in which I boarded in Macquarie Street was rented at £5 10s. a week, and the landlord
refused to make any repairs whatever, because, as he said, and truly enough, he could any day
get £6 a week. In a London suburb the rent would be about £60 a year. Of course it was in the
best situation in Sydney. In the outskirts of the town there was much land speculation. Land
is sold at so much a foot, i.e. a strip of a foot in breadth, and about 360 feet in length.
There is in Sydney a complete system of steam tramways, which run to the distance of six or
seven miles out of the town. Accidents to pedestrians are not uncommon. Vehicles are hardly
seen in the streets where the trams run. One line goes out as far as Botany. I walked from
there along the famous bay which was so nearly having Sydney built upon its shore. It lies
about seven miles North of Sydney, and is almost as quiet as when Captain Phillip landed a
hundred years ago.

In New South Wales there are two Houses of Parliament and a Governor, as usual. The Lower House
is elected by universal suffrage, but the Legislative Council is nominated by the Governor.
The late Governor was certainly not popular, in spite of what the guide books say. Whether
rightly or wrongly, there was a widespread impression that, being a comparatively poor man
he had been sent out, like a Roman proconsul, to increase his private means. It is certain
that a Governor of New South Wales cannot adequately discharge his numerous functions on less
than his official salary of £7000 per annum, and any appearance of parsimony is naturally resented.
It is not exactly the most suitable post for an elderly diplomatist accustomed to the pomps
and inanities of European courts. The Attorney General of New South Wales, Mr. (now, I think,
Sir William) Dalley, is by many people considered the foremost statesman in Australia. It was
he, who, during the illness of the then Premier, despatched the contingent to the Soudan. He
is, undoubtedly, a remarkable speaker, and has recently been created a Privy Councillor--the
only colonial statesman hitherto raised to that dignity.

The Church of England flourishes in Sydney. There is the Cathedral of St. Andrew, and many
other churches. The Bishop (who is the Metropolitan of Australia), Dr. Barry, the late well-known
principal of King's College, has done much by his broadness of view and liberality of sentiment
to lessen local religious differences. The Roman Catholics have been building an enormous Cathedral,
not yet finished. They, too, are a numerous body. The memory of the late Archbishop Vaughan,
who died here in harness, is perfectly idolized by them. The University of Sydney has an imposing
building, on a site overlooking the City, with a large hall and spacious lecture rooms. The
late Professor of Classics was Dr. Badham, the renowned Greek scholar. The affiliated colleges
are denominational, St. Paul's, Church of England; St. John's, Roman Catholic; and St. Andrew's,
Presbyterian. There is, of course, a public library in Sydney, but it cannot for a moment compete
with that of Melbourne, and, from a casual inspection, it did not appear to me that the books
were well selected. There is also a public lending library. In Sydney there are a good many
Chinese. Some of them are doctors. One Chinese doctor professes to make a diagnosis of any
disease by mere inspection, and will then prescribe medicine to effect a cure in a week, a
month, or a year, according to the patient's wish, the less the time the higher the price of
the specific. I have heard that in China people pay their doctors as long as they are in good
health, but when ill require their services for nothing. This appears a plan worth trying elsewhere.
Unfortunately I did not have an opportunity of seeing more of New South Wales than Sydney and
its immediate neighbourhood. One of the favourite excursions from Sydney, is to go by rail
to Mount Victoria, about 80 miles, to pass over the celebrated "Zig-zag," a specimen of engineering
skill, where the train climbs the mountain side, and at one point is so many hundred feet exactly
above a point it passed some time before. To judge by a photograph it must resemble the line
over the Brenner Pass in the Tyrol, where, near the station of Gossensass, there is a similar
zig-zag.

