But my aunt and her paramour took the pas, and formed, indeed, such a pair of originals, as,
I believe all England could not parallel. She was dressed in the stile of 1739; and the day
being cold, put on a manteel of green velvet laced with gold: but this was taken off by the
bridegroom, who threw over her shoulders a fur cloak of American sables, valued at fourscore
guineas, a present equally agreeable and unexpected. Thus accoutred, she was led up to the
altar by Mr Dennison, who did the office of her father: Lismahago advanced in the military
step with his French coat reaching no farther than the middle of his thigh, his campaign wig
that surpasses all description, and a languishing leer upon his countenance, in which there
seemed to be something arch and ironical. The ring, which he put upon her finger, he had concealed
till the moment it was used. He now produced it with an air of self-complacency. It was a curious
antique, set with rose diamonds: he told us afterwards, it had been in the family two hundred
years and was a present from his grand-mother. These circumstances agreeably flattered the
pride of our aunt Tabitha, which had already found uncommon gratification in the captain's
generosity; for he had, in the morning, presented my uncle with a fine bear's skin, and a Spanish
fowling-piece, and me with a case of pistols curiously mounted with silver. At the same time
he gave Mrs Jenkins an Indian purse, made of silk grass, containing twenty crown pieces. You
must know, this young lady, with the assistance of Mr Loyd, formed the third couple who yesterday
sacrificed to Hymen. I wrote to you in my last, that he had recourse to my mediation, which
I employed successfully with my uncle; but Mrs Tabitha held out 'till the love-sick Jenkins
had two fits of the mother; then she relented, and those two cooing turtles were caged for
life -- Our aunt made an effort of generosity in furnishing the bride with her superfluities
of clothes and linen, and her example was followed by my sister; nor did Mr Bramble and I neglect
her on this occasion. It was, indeed, a day of peace-offering. -- Mr Dennison insisted upon
Liddy's accepting two bank notes of one hundred pounds each, as pocket-money; and his lady
gave her a diamond necklace of double that value. There was, besides, a mutual exchange of
tokens among the individuals of the two families thus happily united.

As George Dennison and his partner were judged improper objects of mirth, Jack Wilson had resolved
to execute some jokes on Lismahago, and after supper began to ply him with bumpers, when the
ladies had retired; but the captain perceiving his drift, begged for quarter, alledging that
the adventure, in which he had engaged, was a very serious matter; and that it would be more
the part of a good Christian to pray that he might be strengthened, than to impede his endeavours
to finish the adventure. -- He was spared accordingly, and permitted to ascend the nuptial
couch with all his senses about him. -- There he and his consort sat in state, like Saturn
and Cybele, while the benediction posset was drank; and a cake being broken over the head of
Mrs Tabitha Lismahago, the fragments were distributed among the bystanders, according to the
custom of the antient Britons, on the supposition that every person who eat of this hallowed
cake, should that night have a vision of the man or woman whom Heaven designed should be his
or her wedded mate.

The weight of Wilson's waggery fell upon honest Humphry and his spouse, who were bedded in
an upper room, with the usual ceremony of throwing the stocking. -- This being performed, and
the company withdrawn, a sort of catterwauling ensued, when Jack found means to introduce a
real cat shod with walnut-shells, which galloping along the boards, made such a dreadful noise
as effectually discomposed our lovers. -- Winifred screamed aloud, and shrunk under the bed-cloaths
-- Mr Loyd, believing that Satan was come to buffet him in propria persona, laid aside all
carnal thoughts, and began to pray aloud with great fervency. -- At length, the poor animal,
being more afraid than either, leaped into the bed, and meauled with the most piteous exclamation.
-- Loyd, thus informed of the nature of the annoyance, rose and set the door wide open, so
that this troublesome visitant retreated with great expedition; then securing himself, by means
of a double bolt, from a second intrusion, he was left to enjoy his good fortune without further
disturbance.

If one may judge from the looks of the parties, they are all very well satisfied with what
has passed -- George Dennison and his wife are too delicate to exhibit any strong marked signs
of their mutual satisfaction, but their eyes are sufficiently expressive -- Mrs Tabitha Lismahago
is rather fulsome in signifying her approbation of the captain's love; while his deportment
is the very pink of gallantry. -- He sighs, and ogles, and languishes at this amiable object;
he kisses her hand, mutters ejaculations of rapture, and sings tender airs; and, no doubt,
laughs internally at her folly in believing him sincere. -- In order to shew how little his
vigour was impaired by the fatigues of the preceding day, he this morning danced a Highland
sarabrand over a naked back-sword, and leaped so high, that I believe he would make no contemptible
figure as a vaulter at Sadler's Wells. -- Mr Matthew Loyd, when asked how he relished his bargain,
throws up his eyes, crying, 'For what we have received, Lord make us thankful: amen.' -- His
helpmate giggles, and holds her hand before her eyes, affecting to be ashamed of having been
in bed with a man. -- Thus all these widgeons enjoy the novelty of their situation; but, perhaps
their notes will be changed, when they are better acquainted with the nature of the decoy.

As Mrs Willis cannot be persuaded to stay, and Liddy is engaged by promise to accompany her
daughter back to Gloucester, I fancy there will be a general migration from hence, and that
most of us will spend the Christmas holidays at Bath; in which case, I shall certainly find
an opportunity to beat up your quarters. -- By this time, I suppose, you are sick of alma mater,
and even ready to execute that scheme of peregrination, which was last year concerted between
you and

Your affectionate J. MELFORD Nov. 8.

To Dr LEWIS.

DEAR DOCTOR,

