Transcriber's Note:

       The Table of Contents is not part of the original book.

                                 SOME

                               EVERYDAY

                                 FOLK

                               AND DAWN

                            MILES FRANKLIN

                 First published in Great Britain by

                       William Blackwood & Sons

                                 1909

       *       *       *       *       *

TO THE

ENGLISH MEN WHO BELIEVE IN VOTES FOR WOMEN

THIS STORY IS AFFECTIONATELY INSCRIBED, BECAUSE THE WOMEN HEREIN CHARACTERISED WERE NEVER FORCED
TO BE

"SUFFRAGETTES,"

THEIR COUNTRYMEN HAVING GRANTED THEM THEIR RIGHTS AS

SUFFRAGISTS

IN THE YEAR OF OUR LORD 1902.

M. F.

       *       *       *       *       *

CONTENTS

CHAPTER

ONE.            CLAY'S.

TWO.            AT CLAY'S.

THREE.          BECOMING ACQUAINTED WITH GRANDMA CLAY.

FOUR.           DAWN'S AMBITION.

FIVE.           MISS FLIPP'S UNCLE.

SIX.            GRANDMA CLAY'S LOVE-STORY.

SEVEN.          THE LITTLE TOWN OF NOONOON.

EIGHT.          GRANDMA TURNS NURSE.

NINE.           THE KNIGHT HAS A STOLEN VIEW OF THE LADY.

TEN.            PROVINCIAL POLITICS AND SEMI-SUBURBAN DENTISTS.

ELEVEN.         ANDREW DISGRACES HIS "RARIN'."

TWELVE.         SOME SIDE-PLAY.

THIRTEEN.       VARIOUS EVENTS.

FOURTEEN.       THE PASSING OF THE TRAINS.

FIFTEEN.        ALAS! MISS FLIPP!

SIXTEEN.        ADVANCE, AUSTRALIA!

SEVENTEEN.      MRS BRAY AND CARRY COME TO ISSUES.

EIGHTEEN.       THE FOUNDATION OF THE POULTRY INDUSTRY.

NINETEEN.       AN OPPORTUNELY INOPPORTUNE DOUCHE.

TWENTY.         "ALAS! HOW EASILY THINGS GO WRONG!"

TWENTY-ONE.     THINGS GO MORE WRONG.

TWENTY-TWO.     "O SPIRIT, AND THE NINE ANGELS WHO WATCH US ..."

TWENTY-THREE.   UNIVERSAL ADULT SUFFRAGE.

TWENTY-FOUR.    LITTLE ODDS AND ENDS OF LIFE.

TWENTY-FIVE.    "LOVE'S YOUNG DREAM."

TWENTY-SIX.     "OFF WITH THE OLD."

TWENTY-SEVEN.   "ONE MIGHT THINK BETTER OF MARRIAGE IF ONE'S MARRIED
                    FRIENDS ..."

TWENTY-EIGHT.   LET THERE BE LOVE.

TWENTY-NINE.    "THE SAVAGE SELLS OR EXCHANGES HIS DAUGHTER, BUT IN ..."

THIRTY.         FOR FURTHER PARTICULARS CONSULT 'THE NOONOON ADVERTISER' OF
                    THAT DATE.

                L'ENVOI.

       *       *       *       *       *

GLOSSARY OF COLLOQUIALISMS AND SLANG TERMS.

AUSTRALIAN.         AMERICAN EQUIVALENTS.    ENGLISH INTERPRETATION.

Billy               A tin pail               A camp-kettle.
Blokes              Guys                     Chaps--fellows.
Bosker              Dandy or "dandy          Something meeting with
                     fine"                     unqualified approval.
Galoot              A rube                   A yokel--a heavy country
                                                 fellow.
Larrikin                                     A hoodlum.
Moke                                         A common knockabout horse.
Narked              Sore                     Vexed--to have lost the
                                                 temper.
Gin                 Squaw                    An aboriginal woman.
Quod                                         Jail.
Sollicker           Somewhat equivalent      Something excessive.
                      to "corker"
Toff                A "sport" or "swell      A well-dressed
                      guy"                     individual--sometimes of
                                               the upper ten.
Two "bob"           Fifty cents              Two shillings.
To graft            To "dig in"              To work hard and steadily.
To scoot            To vamoose or skidoo     To leave hastily and
                                                 unceremoniously.
To smoodge          To be a "sucker"         To curry favour at the expense
                                                 of independence.
"Gives me the pip"  "Makes me tired"         Bores.
"On a string"    }                           Trifling with him.
"Pulling his leg"}
Kookaburra          A giant kingfisher with grey plumage and a
                     merry, mocking, inconceivably human laugh--a
                     killer of snakes, and a great favourite with
                     Australians.

       *       *       *       *       *

Some Everyday Folk and Dawn.

ONE.

CLAY'S.

The summer sun streamed meltingly down on the asphalted siding of the country railway station
and occasioned the usual grumbling from the passengers alighting from the afternoon express.

There were only three who effect this narrative--a huge, red-faced, barrel-like figure that
might have served to erect as a monument to the over-feeding in vogue in this era; a tall,
spare, old fellow with a grizzled beard, who looked as though he had never known a succession
of square feeds; and myself, whose physique does not concern this narrative.

Having surrendered our tickets and come through a down-hill passage to the dusty, dirty, stony,
open space where vehicles awaited travellers, the usual corner "pub."--in this instance a particularly
dilapidated one--and three tin kangaroos fixed as weather-cocks on a dwelling over the way,
and turning hither and thither in the hot gusts of wind, were the first objects to arrest my
attention in the town of Noonoon, near the river Noonoon, whereaway it does not particularly
matter. The next were the men competing for our favour in the matter of vehicular conveyance.

The big man, by reason of his high complexion, abnormal waist measurement, expensive clothes,
and domineering manner, which proclaimed him really a lord of creation, naturally commanded
the first and most obsequious attention, and giving his address as "Clay's," engaged the nearest
man, who then turned to me.

"Where might you be going?"

"To Jimmeny's Hotel."

"Right O! I can just drop you on the way to Clay's," said he; and the big swell grunted up
to a box seat, while I took a position in the body of the vehicle commanding a clear view of
the grossness of the highly coloured neck rolling over his collar.

The journey through the town unearthed the fact that it resembled many of its compeers. The
oven-hot iron roofs were coated with red dust; a few lackadaisical larrikins upheld occasional
corner posts; dogs conducted municipal meetings here and there; the ugliness of the horses
tied to the street posts, where they baked in the sun while their riders guzzled in the prolific
"pubs.," bespoke a farming rather than a grazing district; and the streets had the distinction
of being the most deplorably dirty and untended I have seen.

The same could be said of a cook, or some such individual of whom I caught a glimpse when landed
at a corner hotel, where I sat inside the door of a parlour awaiting the appearance of the
landlady or the publican, while for diversion I watched the third arrival wending his way from
the station on foot and shouting something concerning melons to a man in a dray in the middle
of the roadway.

Evidently it was the land of melons and other fruits and vegetables.

Over at the railway, loaded waggons, drays, and carts were backed against a line of trucks
drawn up to convey such produce to the city and other parts of the country, while strings of
vehicles similarly burdened were thundering up the street. Some carts were piled with cases
of peaches, grapes, tomatoes, and rock-melons--the rich aromatic scent of the last mentioned
strongly asserting their presence as they passed. On some waggons the water-melons were packed
in straw and had the grower's initials chipped in the rind, others were not so distinguished,
and at intervals the roughness of the thoroughfare bumped one off. If the fall did not break
it quite in two, a stray loafer pulled it so and tore out a little of the sweet and luscious
heart, leaving the remainder to the ants and fowls. The latter were running about on friendly
terms with the dogs, which they equalled in variety and number. Droves of small boys haunted
the railway premises at that time of the year and eagerly assisted the farmers to truck their
melons in return for one, and came away with their spoils under their arms. Never before had
I seen so many melons or so large. Some weighed sixty and eighty pounds or more, while those
from sixteen to twenty-five pounds, in all varieties,--Cuban Queens, Dixies, Halbert's Honey,
and Cannon Balls,--were procurable at one shilling the dozen, and nearly as much produce as
sent away wasted in the fields for want of a market.

An hour after arrival, having refused the offer of refreshments, which in such places are not
always refreshing, I betook myself to a comparatively cool back verandah to further investigate
my temporary surroundings.

A yellow-haired girl with rings on her fingers sprawled in a hammock reading a much-thumbed
circulating-library novel and eating peaches. This was the landlord's daughter, and a very
superior young lady indeed from her own point of view.

I learnt that at present there would only be one other boarder besides myself. He came up for
the week-end, and had just gone down to Clay's to see some one there. If he could get a berth
at Clay's he would not come back; but the only hope of being taken in there during the summer
weather was to bespeak room a long way ahead, as there was a great run on the place. It was
built right beside the river, and they kept boats for hire, which attracted a number of desirable
young men from the city to engage in week-end fishing, picnicing, swimming, &c.; and the young
gentlemen attracted young ladies, who found it difficult to be taken in at all, because old
Mrs Clay allowed her granddaughter, Dawn, to boss the place, and she favoured men-boarders.

The tone of Yellow-hair suggested that perhaps the men-boarders favoured Dawn; at all events,
it was an attractive name and aroused interested inquiry from me.

"Oh yes, some thought her a beauty! There were great arguments as to whether she or Dora Cowper--another
great big fat thing in a hay and corn store over the way--was the belle of Noonoon;" but for
her part, Yellow-hair thought her too coarse and vulgar and high-coloured (Miss Jimmeny was
sallow and thin), and she was always making herself seen and known everywhere. One would think
she owned Noonoon!

"There she is now," exclaimed the girl, pointing out another who was driving a fat pony in
a yellow sulky. "Talk of the devil."

"Perhaps it is an angel in this case," I responded, for though she was thickly veiled she suggested
youth and a style that pleased the eye.

Whether she and the boats were sufficient to make Clay's an attractive place of residence I
did not know, but already was painfully aware of conditions that would make Jimmeny's Hotel
an uncomfortable location. I retired to my room to escape some of them--the foul language of
the tipplers under the front verandah, and the winds from two streets that also met there in
a whirlwind of dust and refuse.

There was nothing for me to do but kill time, and no way of killing it but by simple endurance.
I had been ordered to some country resort for the good of my health. But do not fear, reader;
this is not to be a compilation of ills and pulses, for no one more than the unfortunate victim
of such is so painfully aware of their lack of interest to the community at large. There are,
I admit, some invalids who find a certain amount of entertainment in inflicting a list of their
aches upon people, blissfully unconscious of how wearisome they can be, but my temperament
is of the sensitive order, knowing its length too well to similarly transgress.

How I had struck upon Noonoon I don't know or care, except that it was within easy access of
the metropolis, and I have no predilection for being isolated from the crowded haunts of my
fellows. I had descended upon Jimmeny's Hotel because in an advertisement sheet it was put
down as the leading house of accommodation in Noonoon. Now I had come to hear of Clay's and
Dawn, and determined to shift myself there as soon as possible. This did not seem imminent,
for presently the "bloated aristocrat" came back to Jimmeny's pub. for the evening meal, as
he had been unable to get so much as a shake-down at Clay's. This so aroused my desire to be
a boarder at Clay's that I straightway wrote a letter to its châtelaine inquiring what style
of accommodation she provided, and could she accommodate me; and strolling up the broken street,
while a few larrikins at corners, by way of entertaining themselves and me, made remarks upon
my appearance, I dropped it in the post-office, but had to endure a week's inattention at Jimmeny's,
and no end of yarns from outside folk I encountered as to how Mrs Jimmeny robbed the "swipes"
who took their poison at her bar, before I was honoured by a reply from Mrs Clay.

     "The accommodation provided by me for people is clean and
     wholesome and the best as suits me. If it don't suit them
     there are other places near that makes more efforts to
     gather custom than I do. I can't take you in at present as
     I'm too full for my taste as it is.--Yours respectfully,

"Martha Clay."

This interesting rebuff inspired me to further effort, and sitting on the back verandah, under
a giant fig-tree shedding its delicious and wholesome fruit also to the fowls and ants, I wrote:--

     "Dear Madam,--Would you kindly apprise me when it would be
     convenient to accommodate me, as I'm anxious to be near the
     river, where I could indulge in boating?"

To this I received reply:--

     "There isn't any chance of me accommodating you till the
     cool weather, and then I don't take boarders at all. I like
     to have them all in the summer, and then have a little peace
     to ourselves in the winter without strangers, for the best
     of them have their noses poked everywhere they are not
     wanted. If you want to go near the river there are heaps of
     houses where there isn't no such rush of people as at my
     place."

This firmly determined me to reside at Mrs Clay's, a desired member of the household, or perish
in the attempt. Alack! I had plenty time to spend in such a trifle, for I was but a derelict,
broken in fierce struggle and hopelessly cast aside into smooth waters, safe from the stormy
currents now too strong for my timbers. That I had means to lie at anchor in some genial boarding-house,
instead of being dependent upon charity, was undoubtedly food for thankfulness, and when one
has burned their coal-heap to ashes they are grateful for an occasional charcoal among the cinders.

No other place near the river but Clay's would do me, though the valley had much to recommend
it at that season, when grapes, peaches, and other fruits were literally being thrown away
on every hand. So I repacked my trunk, and the 'busman who had brought me took me once more
along the execrable streets, past the corner pub., near the railway station, and, it being
late afternoon, the railway employés, as they came off duty, were streaming towards it for
the purpose of "wetting their whistle" after their eight-houred day's work.

Leaving the misguided fellows thus worse than ignorantly refreshing themselves, and the tin
kangaroos showing that the breeze was from the east, I travelled farther west to a summer resort
in the cool altitude, there to await from Mrs Martha Clay a recall to the vale of melons. That
I would get one I was sure, and so little was there in my life that even this prospect lent
a zest to the mail each day.

I had neither relatives nor friends. Fate had apportioned me none of the former, and fierce,
absorbing endeavour had left little time for cultivating the latter, while pride made me hide
from all acquaintances who had known me standing amid the plaudits of the crowd--strong and
successful; and fiercely desiring to be left to myself, I shrank with sensitive horror from
the sympathy that is only careless pity.

TWO.

AT CLAY'S.

The long hot days gave place to cooler and shorter, and there was none left of the beautiful
fruit--peaches, apricots, figs, plums, nectarines, grapes, and melons--which, for want of a
market, had rotted ankle-deep in some parts of the fertile old valley of Noonoon ere I received
a communication from Mrs. Clay.

     "If you think it worth your while you can investigate my
     place now. All the summer weather folk has gone. I would
     only take one or two nice people now that would live with us
     in our own plain way and who would be company for the
     family, so I could not undertake to give you a separate
     parlour and table and carry on that way, but if you like to
     call and see me, please yourself."

Accordingly, I lost no time in once more patronising the town 'busman, and being his only patron
that day, he rattled me past the tin kangaroo weather-cocks, the battered corner pub. and its
colleague a few doors on, and entering the principal street where Jimmeny's Hotel filled the
view, turned to the right across fertile flats held in tenure by patient Chinese gardeners.

Being a region of quick growth, it was of correspondingly rapid decay, and the season of summer
fruits had been entirely superseded by autumn flowers. The vale of melons was now a valley
of chrysanthemums, and with a little specialisation in this branch of horticulture could easily
have out-chrysanthemumed Japan. Without any care or cultivation they filled the little gardens
on every side; children of all sizes were to be seen with bunches of them; while discarded
blossoms lay in the streets, after the fashion of the superabundant melons and orchard fruits
during their season.

About a mile from the station we halted before a ramshackle old two-storey house that was covered
by roses and hidden among orange and fig trees. The approach led through an irregular plantation
of cedar and pepper trees, pomegranates and other shrubs, and masses of chrysanthemums and
cosmos that flourished in every available space.

The friendly 'busman directed me to a gable sheltered by a yellow jasmine-tree, where I tapped
on the door with my knuckle. Footsteps approached on the inside, and after some thumping and
kicking on its panels it was burst open by a nimble old lady in immaculate gown, with carefully
adjusted collar, and wavy hair combed back in a tidy knot and with still a dark shade in it.

"Them blessed white ants!" she exclaimed. "They've very near got the place eat down, so that
you have to make a fool of yourself opening the door, and that blessed feller I sent for hasn't
come to do 'em up yet; but some people!" She finished so exasperatedly that I felt impelled
to state my name and business without delay, and with a prim "Indeed," she led the way across
a narrow linoleumed hall, so beeswaxed that one had to stump along carefully erect.

She invited me to a chair in a stiff room and began--

"I've only got another young lady in the place now, and if you come you'll have to eat with
the family."

I considered this an attraction.

"And there'll be no fussing over you and pampering you, for I'm not reduced to keeping boarders
out of necessity. They ain't all I've got to depend on," she said with a fiery glance from
her choleric blue-grey eyes.

"Certainly not; I'm sure of that by your style, Mrs. Clay."

"But of course I like to make a little; this Federal Tariff has rose the price of living considerable,"
she said, softening somewhat as we now sat down on the formidable and well-dusted seats.

"But I believe you are somethink of a invalid."

"Unfortunately, yes."

"Well, this isn't no private hospital, and never pretended to be. Sick people is a lot of trouble
potterin' and fussin' around with. I couldn't, for the sake of my granddaughter, give her a
lot of extra work that wouldn't mean nothink."

This might have sounded hard, but with some people their very austerity bespeaks a tenderness
of heart. They affect it as a shield or guard against a softness that leaves them the too easy
prey of a self-seeking community, and such I adjudged Mrs. Clay. Her stiffness, like that of
the echidna, was a spiky covering protecting the most gentle and estimable of dispositions.

"My ill-health is the sort to worry no one but myself. I need no dieting or waiting upon. It
is merely a heart trouble, and should it happen to finish me in your house, I will leave ample
compensation, and will pay my board and lodging weekly in advance."

"I ain't a money-grubber," she hastened to assure me; "I was only explaining to you."

"I'm only explaining too," I said with a smile; and having arrived at this understanding of
mutual straight-going, she intimated that I could inspect a room I might have.

In addition to a couple of detached buildings composed of rooms which during the summer were
given to boarders, there were a few apartments in the main residence which were also delivered
to this business, and I was conducted to where three in an uneven gable faced west and fronted
the river.

"This is my granddaughter Dawn's, and this one is empty, and this one is took by a young party
for the winter," said the old dame.

I selected the middle room, as it gave promise of being companionable with those on either
hand occupied, and its window commanded an attractive view. A tangled old garden opened on
a steep descent to the quiet river, edged with willows and garnished by a great row of red
and blue boats rocking almost imperceptibly in the even flow, while a huge placard advertised
their business--

     BEST BOATS ON THE RIVER TO BE HIRED HERE.

                            MRS. MARTHA CLAY.

To the right was an imposing bridge, and on the other side of the water, right at the foot
of the great range which in the early days had remained so long impassable, lay the quiet old
settlement of Kangaroo.

"If you think that room will do, you are welcome to it," continued Mrs. Clay. "Seventeen-and-six
a-week without washing--a pound with."

I agreed to the "with washing" terms, so the affable jehu hauled in what luggage I had brought,
and at last I was installed at Clay's.

The only thing wanting to complete the incident was the advent of Dawn, but she was nowhere
to be seen. As it was only eleven in the morning I sat in my room and waited for her and a
cup of tea, but neither were forthcoming. In her own words, Mrs. Clay "was never give to running
after people an' lickin' their boots." Eventually, having grown weary of waiting for Dawn and
luncheon and other things, I went out on a tour of inspection. First find was a tall dashing
girl of twenty-four or thereabouts, dusting the big heavily encumbered "parler" into which
my room opened.

"Good morning!" heartily said she.

"Good morning! Are you Dawn?" inquired I.

"Dawn! No. But you might well ask, for it's nothing but Dawn and her doings and sayings and
good looks here! You'd think there was no other girl in Noonoon. She won't take it as any compliment
to be taken for me."

"Well, she must be something superlative if it would not be a compliment to be taken for you."

"Oh me! I'm only Carry the lady-help--general slavey like, earning my living, only that I eat
with the family and not in the kitchen. In the summer they hire a cook and others, but in the
winter there are only me and Dawn and the old woman," said this frank and communicative individual
in the frank and communicative manner characteristic of the Clay household.

Proceeding from this encounter, I went out the back way past more gardens and irregular enclosures,
where under widespreading cedar-trees I found a boy at the hobbledehoy age chopping wood in
a desultory fashion, as though to get rid of time, rather than to enlarge the stack of short
sticks, were the most imperative object. Driving his axe in tight and holding on to it as a
sort of balance, he leant back, effected a passage in his nostrils, and after having regarded
me with a leisurely and straightforward squint, observed--

"I reckon you're the new boarder?"

"I reckon so. I reckon you belong to this place."

"Yes, Mrs. Clay, she's my grandma."

"Is that your grandfather?" I inquired, pointing to the old man who had travelled with me on
the day of my first visit to the town, and now supporting an outhouse door-post, while a young
man with whom he talked leant against the tailboard of a cart advertising that he was the first-class
butcher of Kangaroo, and had several other unsurpassable virtues in the meat trade.

"No, he ain't me grandfather, thank goodness he's only me uncle; that's plenty for me."

"Aren't you fond of him?"

"I ain't dying of love for him, I promise you. Old Crawler! He reckons he's the boss, but sometimes
I get home on him in a way that a sort of illustrates to his intelligence that he ain't. Ask
Dawn. She's the one'll give you the straight tip regarding him."

"Where is Dawn?"

"Oh, Dawn's in the kitchen. She an' Carry does the cookin' week about w'en the house ain't
full. Grandma makes 'em do that; it saves rows about it not bein' fair. You won't ketch sight
of Dawn till dinner. She'll want to get herself up a bit, you bein' new; she always does for
a fresh person, but she soon gets tired of it."

"And you, are you going to get yourself up because I'm new?"

"Not much; boys ain't that way so much as the wimmin," he said, and the grin we exchanged was
the germ of a friendship that ripened as our acquaintance progressed. I intended to settle
down to the enjoyment afforded by my sense of humour. I had preserved it intact as a private
personal accomplishment. On the stage, having steered clear of comedy and confined myself to
tragedy, it had never been cheapened and made nauseous by sham and machine representations
indigenous to the hated footlights, and was an untapped preserve to be drawn upon now.

So I was not to see Dawn till the midday dinner; she was to appear last, like the star at a
concert.

A star she verily was when eventually she came before me carrying a well-baked roast on an
old-fashioned dish. Her lovely face was scarlet from hurry and the fire, her bright hair gleamed
in coquettish rolls, and a loose sleeve displayed a round and dimpled forearm--a fitting continuance
of the taper fingers grasping the chief dish of the wholesome and liberal menu she had prepared.

Old Uncle Jake took the carver's place, but Grandma Clay sat at his left elbow and instructed
him what to do. He handed the helpings to her, and she supplemented each with some of all the
vegetables, irrespective of the wishes of the consumers, to whom they were handed in a business-like
method. The puddings were distributed on the same principle, grandma even putting milk and
sugar on the plates as for children; and further, she talked in a choleric way, as though the
children were in bad grace owing to some misdemeanour, but that was merely one of her mannerisms,
as that of others is to smile and be sweet while they inwardly fume.

Excepting this, the unimpressive old smudges hung above the mantel, and probably standing for
some family progenitors, gazed out of their caricatured eyes on an uneventful meal. Conversation
was choppy and of the personal order, not interesting to a stranger to those mentioned. I made
a few duty remarks to Uncle Jake, which he received with suspicion, so I left him in peace
to suck his teeth and look like a sleepy lizard, while I counted the queer and inartistic old
vases crowded in plumb and corresponding pairs on the shelf over the fireplace.

Miss Flipp, the other boarder, was in every respect a contrast to me, being small, young, and
dressed with elaboration in a flimsy style which, off the stage, I have always scorned. Her
wrists were laden with bangles, her fingers with rings, and her golden hair piled high in the
most exaggerated of the exaggerated pompadour styles in vogue. Her appetite was indifferent;
the expression of her eyes bespoke either ill-health or dissipation, and she was very abstracted,
or as Mrs Clay put it--

"She acts like she had somethink on her mind. Maybe she's love-sick for some one she can't
ketch, and she's been sent up here to forget."

This was after Miss Flipp had retreated to her room, and Carry continued the subject as she
cleared the table.

"She says she's an orphan reared by a rich uncle; she's always blowing about him and how fond
he is of her. She's just recovered from an operation and has come up here to get strong. That's
why she does nothing, so she says, only poke about and read novels and make herself new hats
and blouses; but I think she'd be lazy without any operation. She'd want another to put some
go in her."

"She'd require inoculating with a little of yours," said I, watching with what enviable vigour
the girl's work sped before her as though afraid. I also retired to my room for a rest, intending
to come out and pave the way for friendship with Dawn by-and-by, for I quickly perceived she
was not the character to go out of her way to make the first overture.

Some time after, when strolling around in an unwonted fashion, I was pleased to again encounter
my friend Andrew. Evidently he had been set to clean out the fowl-houses, for a wheelbarrow
half full of manure stood at the door of a wire-netted shed, and in the middle of this task
he had sought diversion by shooting rats from among the straw in a big old barn, where a great
heap of unused hay made them a harbour. In this warm valley, carpeted in the irrepressible
couch-grass, there was no lack of fodder that season, and even the lanes and byways would have
served as fattening paddocks. Andrew leant upon his gun, and having delivered himself of certain
statistics in rat mortality, and exhibiting some specimens by the tail, he began a conversation.

"Say, what did you think of Miss Thing-amebob, Miss Flipp I mean?"

"I didn't bother thinking anything at all about her."

Andrew looked interrogatively at me and broke into a grin.

"Well, I reckon she's the silliest goat I ever came across. She came out to me and asked did
I think she looked pretty, as her uncle is coming up to-night, and if she looks nice he'll
give her a present or something. I reckon she'd have to look not such a mad-headed rabbit before
I'd give her anything but some advice to bag her head. And he must be a different uncle to
Uncle Jake; I reckon he wouldn't give you nothing if you had on two heads at once. Here's Larry
Witcom coming back from his rounds, and he promised me a bit of meat for Whiskey! Here, Whiskey!
Whiskey!" he roared, and a small canine pet that had been hunting rats desisted from the fray
and ran with his master. I also walked with him--this without exception, even in slum scenes
on the stage, being the dirtiest escort I ever had had. His face was grimed, his shirt like
an engine-rag, and his trousers dusty, while from a hole in the seat thereof fluttered a flag
of garment--such an ingratiatingly wholesome blunderbuss of a boy!

"Here, you Larry," he yelled, "you promised me! Come on, Whiskey! Why, ain't he a bosker!"
he enthusiastically exclaimed, as the hideously unprepossessing little mongrel stood on his
hind legs and yelped in excited begging.

"Hullo, Andrew! Don't bust! Who's that you had with you?--(I had turned a corner)--a new boarder,
I suppose? Rather an old piece!"

"Yes," said Andrew. "Her hair is a little white, but she ain't sour and stuck up."

"A chance for you to hang your hat up, Jake," said Larry.

"No, thanks! I'm cautious of them old maids. If you say a pleasant word to 'em they can't be
shook off, and might have you up for breach of promise like with Tom Dunstan."

"I suppose there is a danger, you being so fascinating," chuckled the butcher as I went inside,
with a premonition that should it come to taking sides in the Clay household, if avoidable
I would not be on Uncle Jake's.

"Who is Uncle Jake?" said Carry in response to my inquiry, as she prepared four o'clock tea;
"he's Uncle Jake, that's what he is, and enough for me too, that he is. The old swab wants
hanging up by the beard."

"Yes, but what place does he hold in the house?"

"Place! that of walking round poking his nose in everywhere and growling about things that
don't concern him. Mrs Clay keeps him--gives him fifteen shillings a-week--because he's her
brother, and you'd think he owned everything. If you want to know what he is, he's a terribly
bad example to Andrew. He's the greatest clumsy, lumbering, dirty lump (oh, you should see
his clothes, what they are like to wash, and the only way to keep him clean would be to stuff
him in a glass case!), but for all that he's a very fair kid. You can't expect much of boys,
you know, and have to be thankful for any good points at all. O Lord!" she here exclaimed,
looking out a window, where along a path through the orchard she descried approaching a fine
buxom dame in a fashionably cut dress, "here's Mrs Bray in full sail. Orchestras
have been killed in payment for the good they were going to do, and he sent some Inca Tupac captains
to punish people, but, as I knew, gathered many of the barbarians who killed and those who were
defeated, that the Inca was feeling, but, having large business in his hands, and agree in
person back to Cuzco, he was not to own dalles punishment for what they had done.

In Quito how well it was new to what he had been sent and how much care had his delegates to impose
such people into his service, and how well they were treated and them how they were happy
and did what was commanded them, and many landlords I came every day and brought him great ambassadors
present, and his court was full of major and palaces of pots and vessels of gold and silver and other
great riches .-- In the morning he ate, and from noon to be a bit late, heard in public, accompanied
by his guardian, whom he wanted to talk. After spending the time to be drinking at night, that
turned out to dinner with fire wood, because they did not use tallow or wax, but had tired of the
one or the other.

In Quito left by the captain general and chief steward to a orejon elderly, who all have I was
very knowledgeable and hard and gentle presence, whom they called Chalco Mayta, and he gave
license so he could walk on a platform and served with gold and other freedoms he had a lot.
Ordered him on all things that each moon do him messenger to bring him particular notice of all things
to pass over, and the state of the earth, and fertility della, and the growth of the livestock,
over all what we ordinarily notice, which was the poor who had, who were killed in one year
and he was born, and what has been eScript in the back knew that without it he himself kings in
Cuzco, and having so great way from Quito to Cuzco, which is more than going from Seville
to Rome, by far, was so used as is the way to Seville Triana, that
I can not more expensive.

Dias had the grand Inca Tupac had notice of the fertility of Los Llanos and the beautiful valleys
than they had, and how much they felt the lords of them, and determined to send them messengers
with gifts and presents for the principal, asking that they had for a friend and companion, Quél
wanted to be like him in the suit when passing over the valleys, not war if they wanted to give
them peace, and that up to them from their wives and clothes and take him their own, and other
things in this. And all along the coast had flown and how much new you ladies were Tupac Inca
Yupanqui, and how it was not cruel or vicious or to harm but to the brooding and wanted to
stand against him: and they praised the custom and religion of the Cuzco, the apricots had male
saints, believing that the Incas were the children of the sun, or that they had a deity. And
considering these things and others, identified many without seeing their flags, taking with him
friendship, and so sent him to say with own ambassadors, to which sent many presents to the
king himself, and begged wanted come the valleys to be Dell Server and Holger to see their
freshness, and praising the Inca such a will, again speaking to the
governor of Quito what he had done, left that city to rule the Yuncas.

As Tupac Inca king resolved to go in the valleys of Los Llanos, to attract to its service and
obedience the inhabitants of them, down to what Tumbez and was honorably receive me by natural
whom showed much love Tupac Inca, and then put the suit wore T hose for more content, and praises
the war leading to will not take him as Lord and and have promised to the estimate as to his own children.
They hear happy with their good words and manner with which he treated them, gave honest obedience
to conditions, and allowed be including governors and make buildings because, without it that
some Indians say, others had passed by Tupac Inca made seat while in the land, reigned until Huayna
Capac, but if we look at these sayings of the Indians, never conclude
nothing.

Leaving the valley, walked the Inca king by most of the coast, going by the way real big and beautiful
as what of today seems to have been, and was served everywhere and going to present to serve
him, though in some places, they say they gave war but was not party to be without his subjects.
In this valley was a few days drinking and giving them pleasure, rejoiced to see their freshness.
Made by his command large building houses and temples. Chimo in the valley say they had a fierce
war with the Lord of that valley, and taking their battle, was in little being disrupted all the
Inca point, but, whichever their own, won the field and defeated the enemy, whom Tupac Inca,
with his mercy, spared, commanding, to those who were living in planting their land would
understand, and should not take up arms again to himself or others. He was Chimo to represent
him, and most of these valleys were the tributes to Cajamarca, and they are working for metal working,
many of them were taken to Cuzco and to the heads of provinces, tilled where silver and gold
jewelry, vases and vessels, but it was more ordered them. Chimo passed on the Inca, and Parmunquilla
[187] ordered a fortress we see today, although very worn and broken
up.

These Yuncas are given, and the lords, vicious and friends rejoicing, went to shoulders of
his subjects, had many women, were rich in gold and silver and precious clothing and livestock.
In those days, servíanse with pomp in front of them were crooks and decision-makers, in their
houses had gatekeepers, used in many religions. Dell, will be offered to the Inca and others
took up arms against him, but at last he was by the sovereign lord of it all and monarch. No
freedoms and seized their old habits, use of theirs So that degree of force or they were to save. Indians
were skilled as they impose that the king wanted them to know, and learn the common language
had great care. They stood mitimaes, and roads, clinics, each moderately taxed valley that tribute
to that their land could, without going to look to the Agency, hobiese, watched over them to
justice, more fulfilled what they promised, if not, the damage was his and the Inca earned their
entire income. Lordship is not shot no natural lord but sacáronse of men of the valleys many,
getting to the each other, and to bring other parties to the trades
that this has been.

Inca God to walk in the other valleys in the best order he could, without allowing no harm
was done in the towns or in the fields of land do they passed, and the had many provisions in
natural deposits and quarters that the roads were facts. And with this order, the Inca walked
until he reached the valley of Pachacamac, which was the temple as old and devout Yuncas very
desired to see him as he arrived at that valley, say only wish there was the temple of the
sun, more like that was so honored and taken by the natives, did not dare, and that it should
be contented with house and large sun virgins and priests, for that would make sacrifices according
to his religion. Many Indians say that he himself spoke with the devil Inca was the idol of
Pachacamac, and he heard it was the maker of the world and other nonsense that I do not do not agree;
and the Inca begged to let him know what service would be more honest
and happy, and responded he sacrificed a lot of human and sheep blood.

After the aforesaid, have great sacrifices that were made in Pachacama by Tupac Inca Yupanqui, and
large celebrations, which last, he turned back to Cuzco on a path that was done, what you will
get the Xauxa Valley, which runs through the snowy mountains of Pariacaca, which is something
to see and feel his greatness, and how large steps are, and today are and among those snows,
to get through. And visiting the provinces of the highland and providing and rearranging the most
convenient for good governance, who is close to Cuzco, to where he
was received with great feasts and dances, and made great sacrifices
in the temple for their victories.

Chincha province in the past was much in this kingdom of Peru, and most populated People, therefore,
that before this one time with their masters had left and joined himself to the Collao, where,
with great spoil that hobieron, turned back to his province, where they were and were always
estimated their neighbors, and feared. The father of Tupac Inca Inca, is said Soras sent from
a captain with warriors, called Capac Inca, to obtain Chincha attract the lordship of his own:
but, although he was and what he tried, was low partly because got a weapon, and so it wanted
to defend, quel orejon, the best he could, returned, and were not
seeing any captain until Tupac Inca Inca subjugated, to what T hose
same tale, for I do not know about this more than they themselves.

Returning to the purpose, as Tupac Inca reached the Cuzco hobiese, as eScript, after to be loose
and have given to their hobbies seemed like days, sent it back to People call, with the intention
of ending the Lady Indians of Los Llanos. His command was met, and appeared in Cuzco speedily
masters of the provinces with people of war who were to bring, and put in order after the city
and what more King had to provide, out of Cuzco and down to the plains by way of Guaytaray.
Knowing its way, many were waiting for him with the intention of taking him as Lord, and many
willing to give him war and try to keep [it] in the freedom they had.

In the valleys of the Nazca people had back and ready against war.

Tupac Inca arrived, hobo embassies and talks between them, and although there were some stubbornness
and guerrillas, were content with what the Inca Dellos wanted by the foundation (and) that hiciesen
fortified houses and hobiese mitimaes, and pay tribute to what they put. And here was the Inca to
the valley of Ica, where he found more resistance in the Nazca, but, wisdom enough [to] do,
without war, enemies friends, and were broken as the last. In Chincha waiting if the Inca were
going to the valley, made more than thirty thousand men on the point of war, and hoped to curry favor
with the neighbors. Tupac Inca, as he knew, he sent messengers, with great presents for the
lords and masters and principals, said the ambassadors that of his party's hiciesen great
offers, and chelate did not want war with them, but peace and brotherhood, and other things to
this pass. The Chincha heard what the Inca he said, and received him his present, and were for
him some principal with what was in the valley and talked to him and sought the friendship
so that peace was settled, and Chincha weapons and were left to Tupac Inca, then moved to Chincha.
This counted mesmos Chincha Indians of Cuzco and the dried, other Indians from other provinces
have heard have it otherwise, because they say large hobo war more
I believe that without it was for Lord of Chincha.

Inca come to this valley, so great and beautiful saw it, was delighted. He praised the customs
of the natives, and with loving words I begged them to take those of Cuzco which would see them
add up, and they obeyed him and contented throughout, and given seat when it had to do, went
to Ica, where he was to what they call the Guarco, because questa knew war and turned around,
and it was true, because the natives of those valleys, taking little by their neighbors because
they had so unnerved and do not see why, given possession of their lands to stranger king,
and gathered a lot of courage, having made houses pucaraes strong in the part belonging to
it, near the sea, where they put their wives and children. And walking [188] the Inca with
their people in order, who is close to where they were their enemies, and sent their embassies to
big games, and sometimes threats and fierce, but did not want to go through the law of their
neighbors, who was foreign to Acknowledge, and with each other, the use of these parts, locked
the war and spent great things from them. And come the summer and hiciesen great heat, the people
of the Inca adolesció that was because he agreed to withdraw, and so, with more sanity as he could,
did, and those of Guarco out of its valley, and took their maintenance
and meals, and turned to sow the fields, and they made weapons and
aparejábanse for, if the Cuzco should come against them, found them
apercebidos.

Tupac Inca Cuzco stirred about, and as men are of so little evidence, they saw than the Guarco
were left with what they tried, he began to have news from some of them, and rebelled and departed
from the service some of the Inca .-- These were natural valleys up the same coast .-- All the
king went to hearing, and what remained of that summer, he understood to make calls and send
people out to apricots were all over the kingdom to visit the provinces, and determined to win
the dominion of Guarco, though about it ingrowth was evident harm. As autumn came and went past
the heat of summer, with The more people who might join, down to the Plains and sent their ambassadors
to the valleys of them, afeándolos his unsteadiness in presuming he is up against, and they
were amonestóles firm in their friendship, where not, certificóles that the war would make cruel.
And how to get at first Guarco Valley, in Halden saw, he commanded his people to found a city
​​to which his name Cuzco, as his chief seat, and the streets and hills and squares were the
real name. He said that even cattle would quel Guarco the native subjects of his, had to remain
the new settlement, and that it always People had to be quartered, and then hobo who did what
on what was ordered, moved with his people to where they were the enemy, and besieged it, and
so firm were in purpose, never wanted to come to any party, and had his war, which was so long,
saying that lasted three years, the summers of which the Inca went to Cuzco, leaving people quartered
in the new Cuzco he had done, that was always against the enemy.

And so, one to be gentlemen, and the other for not being slaves, tried to leave with his intention,
but finally, after three years, the Guarco were emaciated, and Inca, who met him, I again sent
ambassadors to them that they were all friends dijiesen and colleagues, quel did not want to marry
their sons but his daughters, and the resulting, sustener confederation all very equal, and other
things such deception, Paresce to Tupac Merescian grand Inca punishment for having given so much
work, and the Guarco, Paresce could no longer sustain many days, and that conditions would be
made by the Inca better to enjoy peace and quiet, gave what the Inca king wanted, who should not,
since leaving the fort, were the key to reverence him, and without thinking, commanded his people
that kill them all, and they put him with great cruelty at the hands, and slew all the major
and most honest men them who were there, and in they were not, also be carried out the sentence,
and killed as many as today, we have the descendants Dell and large piles of bones that there
are witnesses, and we believe that what about this account is what you see eScript.

This done, he ordered the Inca king and a graceful strength that so I told in Part [189]. Settled
the valley and put mitimaes and governor, having heard embassies which came from the Yuncas
and many mountain, commanded want to ruin the new Cuzco had been done, and all the people turned
around for the city of Cuzco, where he was received with great joy, and made great sacrifices to praise
him in the temple and oracles and therefore he was glad the town with parties and drinking and
táquis Solenoid.

As Tupac Inca reached the Cuzco hobiese with such great victories as has eScript, was some days
rejoiced at their feasts and drinking with their wives and concubines, who were many, and
their children, including growing up Huayna Capac, who was to be king and came out very courageous
and spirited. After the holidays, the great Tupac Inca thought of giving sight Collao and rule the earth
that could front more, and to do so, he issued apercebiesen people everywhere, and many tents
hiciesen sleeping in desert places. Y began to come with their masters, and to the round alojábanse
Cuzco, without entering the city ​​other than the law does not proibia, and to each other and
to dutifully provided everything you need, taking into account this great governors and providers
MESMA city. And as hobiesen together all those who had to go to war, is made sacrifices their gods,
according to his blindness, making wizards, who knew of the oracles the end of the war, and
made a general and very splendid treat, Tupac left Cuzco Inca in the city leaving his lieutenant
and his eldest son Huayna Capac, and spare grand [190] and majesty, so Collasuyo walked, visiting
the seals and real drums, and rejoice by the peoples of the Canas and Canches.

Entering in the Collao, walked up Chucuito, where the lords of the earth together him to make
merry, and had its good order all collection and supply of maintenance without who miss more
than three hundred mill people who were on their real. Some lords Collao offered to go for
their people with the same saddle Inca, and with that said, came In malaria Titicaca, and
Loo to those who understood the works of the buildings that his father commanded to do, how well
they had done. In the temple made great sacrifices, and gave the idol priests and rich gifts,
according to so great a lord as he was. He returned to his people and walked throughout the
province to leave della Collao, sent his messengers to all nations of Charcas, Carangas and more
people who are in those lands. Dellas, flocked around him to serve and others to you make
war, but though it was given, his power was so great that enough to the subjugation, using the
conquered of great mercy, and with which it came, much love. In Paria sent to large buildings,
and do the same elsewhere. And some had Inca Tupac go to great things, many of which deprives
the forgetfulness, the need to have letters, and I summarily put something of how much we know
from what we hear and see, that here we are, what happened.

Going ahead of the Charcas victorious, went through many lands and depopulated provinces and large snow,
until he came to what we call Chile, and lorded over and conquered all the lands, in which they
say they came to the river Maule. As of Chile made some buildings and tributáronle of regions
much gold in ingots. Governors and mitimaes left, and since in order you had won, he returned to
Cuzco.

Towards the Levante sent apricots warned, in the dress of merchants, who would look for hobiese
lands and what the people sent, and ordered these other things, returned to Cuzco, in which
contend that turned to go out after a few days, and with people who agreed lead, went into
the Andes, and spent the grand work of the mountain wilderness, and conquered some villages in
that region, and sent many crops of coca plant, and which led Cuzco,
where he turned around.

And they say past few days, gave him some evil that caused his death, and commending his son
the government of the kingdom and their wives and children, and saying
other things, he died.

And there were great tears and feeling so remarkable from Quito to Chile, strange forests
thing to hear what the Indians on that count.

Where or in what place he is buried not say. That have killed large number of women and servers
and pages to get to him with so much treasure and jewels, which had mounted more than one million,
and would be little, because individual lords were buried some of them over a hundred miles
from Castile. Without so much that people got into his grave and hanged buried many women
and men in different parts of the kingdom, and everywhere were crying for an entire year and
is shorn of most of the women, putting all ropes esparto, and finish the year, came to make
their reputations. And what they say they used to I do not want to because they are nations,
and the Christians Quest in Cuzco year of fifteen hundred and fifty,
remember what they saw was made by the honors and After years of Inca
Paulo, with it having become Christians, and bring forth what would
in time the reign of former kings, rather than lose their sovereignty.

CAP. LXI .-- Of how he reigned at Cuzco Huayna Capac who was the Inca king dozen.

Dead king was the great Inca Tupac Yupanqui, is understood to make their funeral rites and burial
the use of their elders, with great pomp. And have the apricots, which secretly plotted between
freedom to collect some past and hold it the command of the Incas, and in fact leave with what
they intended, if not for the very quick, which gave the governors of the Inca with people
of mitimaes and captains, they could sustain such a troubled time and had no king, they had
charged last nickel. Huayna Capac not neglected or failed to meet that he must show courage to
keep it that his father worked so hard won. Then it came to making the fast, and the city will
ruling was faithful and loyal. Have not stopped some confusion among the Incas mesmos, because
some children of Tupac Inca, have occurred in other Coya women, wanted to pretend to be [191]
the kingship, but the people who Vian was with Huayna Capac, not consent, but interfered with
the punishment that was done. Finish fasting, Huayna Capac went with tassel very gallant and
dressed, and made the cirimonias used by their past, to which the
name of king wore, and so loud voices they said [192]: Inca Huayna
Capac Zapalla tucuillacta Uya, which means, "Huayna Capac only is
king Øyan unto him all peoples.

"

Huayna Capac was, as they say many Indians saw him and knew of no very great body but bent and
well done, good and very serious face, a few words, many facts was righteous and punished without
restraint. I wanted to be as feared, that night I dreamed of Indians. Ate as they use, and
so lived cycle of women, if you can tell, hear to those who spoke well, and believed very light:
long deprived him of flatterers and flattering, that among them there were plenty, and today
there is no longer, and gave ear to lies, was the reason that many died without guilt. For
the young men who slept meat tempted to their wives or concubines,
or with which they were in the temple of the sun, then sent them to
kill to them, and to punish them equally. Just let her
go out an' try, an' she'd find it all moonshine; but w'en I tell her, she only thinks I'm a
old pig, an' only she's that stubborn I know she'd never come back. (I would be the same myself
w'en young, so can't blame her.) I'd let her have a taste of hardship to bring her to her bearin's.
But while I'm alive she'll never have my consent to be a actress. W'en I was young they was
looked upon as the lowest hussies. I'd like to hear what my mother would say if I had wanted
to be one--paintin' meself up an' kickin' up me heels and showin' meself before men in the
loudest manner!"

I concluded not to divulge my profession while at Clay's, and to boot, I held much the same
point of view.

"She thinks she'd like to marry some fine feller and be a toff; an' she's got this danger that's
always the drawback of a girl bein' pretty, so many fellers come after them at the start they
get finnicky an' think they can marry any one, an' leave it too late, an' in the end they marry
some rubbishing feller an' don't came out half so well as the plain ones that was content with
a fair thing w'en they had the chance of it. Just the same with a boy; it's a bad thing for
them to be able to do everythink, they are so terribly smart they end up by doin' nothink,
an' the ploddin' feller they grinned at for bein' a booby, because he stuck to the one thing,
comes out on top."

"Just so; want of concentration plucks one every time."

"That's wot I want to save Dawn from. It's all right while I live, an' I don't want her to
be chuckin' herself at the head of any Tom or Dick, but I won't live for ever, an' marriage
is like everythink else, you want to have your eye on a good thing an' not humbug too much.
W'en I'm gone"--the austere old face softened--"I wouldn't like to think of her I've spent
so much money on, an' rared with me own hand, as I did her an' her mother before her, growin'
old an' sour an' lonely, or bein' a slave to some worthless crawler." The old voice grew perilously
soft, and saved itself from a break by a swift crescendo.

"As I say, I suppose she's waitin' for some great impossible feller to come along, like we
do w'en we're young; but these upper ten is the worst matches a girl can make, an' besides
there's too many trying to ketch them in their own rank. I've had lots of 'em here, an' to
see these swell girls the way they try to ketch some one would make you ill. Don't you think so?"

"Well, my sympathies are always with the swell girl in the matrimonial market," I replied.
"She has a far harder time than those of the working classes. You see, so many of the well-to-do
eligibles prefer working girls--actresses, chorus-singers, and barmaids, which, in addition
to marriage in their own class, gives these girls a chance of stepping up; whereas the swell
girls cannot marry grooms and footmen and raise them to their rank as their brothers can their
housemaids and ballet-girls. To be a success the society girl must marry a man of sufficient
means to keep her as an expensive toy, and this description of bachelor being scarce in any
case, little wonder she has to hunt hard and tries to protect her preserves from poachers.
Think of it that way."

"There is a lot in that, and that's why I like to see Dawn have young Eweword, who's a man
I'd be happy to leave her to; but I daren't say a word, she's mighty touchy an' would flash
up that she'd leave if I want to get rid of her. But while I've got breath in me body there's
one thing I will set me foot on, an' that's these good-for-nothing skunks like bankers' sons
an' them sort of high an' mighty pauper nobodies; they're fearful matches for any one. I know
too much about the swells an' the old families of the colony, I'm thankful I ain't one of them.
My father came out here a long time ago, an' I was born out here. He was a sergeant in the
police. I am near seventy-six, an' can remember plain for seventy years back in the days w'en
there was plenty convicts, an' me father, seein' his position, was put to see the floggin'
of them. Me and another little girl that's dead now used to climb up a tree an' look over the
wall like children would. We was stationed in Goulburn then, an' I'll never forget the scenes
to me dyin' day. The men used to be stripped to the waist and tied on a triangle and walloped
till they was cut to pieces, till they screamed like little children for mercy, and poor old
wretches that had roamed the world for sixty years used to screech Mother! Mother! like little
children. It was heart-renderin'! An' what used they be flogged for, do you think?--for the
piggishness of the swells mostly. I'll tell you. There was a old feller lived out at Kaligiwa--that's
more than twenty miles the other side of Goulburn, an' there's Parry's Lagoon there called
after him till this day. He was a old Lord Muck if ever there was one, an' by reason of that
got a land grant an' men assigned, an' he ought to have been give to them to kick--would have
been the right thing; an' then he had a lot of skunks of sons,--took after their father, of
course, an' hadn't much chance of bein' anythink else,--an' w'en they used to ride to town
they used to have a man tied to the stirrup just to hold it."

"What was that for?"

"What was it for?" she raged. "It was because they was those skunks of swells that think other
people is only made as floor wipes for 'em! An' this feller used to have to run all the way
to town, and if he hadn't strength to run all the way he'd be dragged, an' if he give any lip
the Parrys 'u'd report 'em; an' me father says he's often seen 'em flogged till their backs
were like ploughed, an' then have to run the twenty miles home. Me father used to come in every
day and fling hisself down an' cry and sob as if his heart would break, an' say he'd rather
starve than stay in the police. Now, the Parrys got up an' one of them had a 'Sir' sent out
to his name, and you'll see 'em writ about as one of the few old families; and I hold that
Dawn come from better stock than them, and has more to be proud of in her grandfather--he had
some heart in him. An' Lord! there's Miss Flipp's uncle, one look at him ought to be sufficient
warnin' to any girl. The likes of him is common among the swells--too much stuffin' an' drinkin'
an' debochary. Nice thing if Dawn married a swell an' he developed into a old pig like that.
I can tell you another great family of swells, the Goburnes--entertained the Royalties w'en
they was out here, an' are such bugs one of 'em married the Governor's daughter. They got up
about the same way. In the old days w'en things were carelesser an' land wasn't much, the old
cock of all had the surveyor that was gone on his daughter measurin' the land, an' got him
to slice in great pieces by false measurement, an' worked the lives out of convicts--as big
a brute as the Parrys. That's the breed of the swells, an' I have a horror of them. The people
as I consider ought to be the swells in this country is them that came out first, the free
emigrants, and honestly worked up the colony with their own hands, an' their children done
the same for four or five generations--them's the only proper Australian aristocracy we've
got. That's why I have sich a contempt for this Rooney-Molyneux, Mrs Bray was tellin' of; only
times is different he'd be the same, he's got the sort of pride that thinks his wife is a black
gin because she was only a milliner." Always doing it is
profitable, and the reward is many times less I thought that he could do and what they lost in
many benefits, one is thankful, is still more useful that damage of all those lost.

Infante Montaner found the security at the port, what gift they gave for their livelihoods, just before
the Genoese have helped, although he was with the same interest and enjoyment.

CHAPTER LIV.

Pass the army to Macedonia.

Paragraph field Montaner, Berenguer de Entenza dead, and Fernan Jimenez fled left alone Rocafort absolute
lord and master of everything, and so was moving to his taste and whim determinations across
the board. The resolution was taken among all the captains prior to go aside of prisons, was
to rush to Cristopol and become strong in him, as they did in Gallipoli and have the two provinces
of Thracia and Macedonia neighbors to make their entries. Seemed at first easy the company, because
they believed the Greeks get neglected, and no time to be prevented, and no doubt they thought
went well, if the road does not stop four days to avenge their particular grievances and passions
with which the Greeks had space and place a lot, not only for defense, but also to offend them,
and finishes, whether between Greeks were men of courage and care.

The delay of executions in war is very harmful, and very useful any alacrity, which cut a lot one
day, one hour and even less time, large sets and sometimes lost.

Rocafort after he learned that the City was put on defense, it was decided to move to close
of Cristopol which is the maritime part of Rhodope mountains, and
do not stop, in attacking the place.

The next day all the field passed the strait, not without great distress, because the road
was harsh, many backgrounds, and children, women and patients. The Greeks, but warned the
path that led the Catalans, they could not or dared not daring to step impedilles.

Crossing the Rhodope mountain, down to the fields of Macedonia about eight thousand men service
among all nations, large enough army to any company, whether the mood was united, and Berenguer's
death had not made odious Rocafort, even to his own friends, because since then he vanished and they
were offended, and at last fall were found in the middle of the province of Macedonia powerful
enemy towns and have not abused the war, but the damage from Thracia its neighboring province, they
served as a deterrent, as a precaution in the Cities, and reap the fruits of the season. Careful
because the Catalans to put your seat for this winter off somewhere, ran all the earth, recognizing
that we can occupy positions, and pick up supplies and provisions bought with blood, and money.
Lately, after having done great damage throughout the Province, became strong in the ruins of
ancient Casandria, one of the best positions throughout the province, being neighbor to the
sea, and all of that out fertile region and peaceful, for the many
breasts, and tickets to the sea and where it easily, or at less with
more comfort than any other place, could do to land tickets inside,
and have to Thessalonica head of the province in continuous fear of
damage.

CHAPTER LV.

Prison of the Infante Don Fernando in Negroponte.
Infante left the Isle of Tarsus with Ramon Montaner and ordered to
be handed Montaner the best gallery that was the one who called Spanish.
With these four galleries, a log armed Montaner and a boat was sailing
along the coast of Thrace and Macedonia, to the port Almiro. Mrs Clay
was vehement.

"When Dawn's mother grew up she was Dawn's image, an' we was keepin' a accommodation house
too, that is Jim Clay an' me, and Dawn's mother was reckoned the prettiest and best girl in
them parts, an' had lovers from far and near; but there came a feller up from Sydney to stay,
nothin' to blow about neither, but he was dreadfully gone on me daughter. He seemed all right,
but I was agen him--being a swell,--till me daughter threatened she'd run away with him if
I didn't let her have him peaceful, an' rememberin' me own youth, I let her have him in spite
of me misgivin's. She went home with him, an' it appears he was like these crawlin' fellers--couldn't
do nothink, only what their parents give them; an' w'en they found he'd married a fine, good,
wholesome girl, instead of one of their own style--one of the Parrys for instance--they cut
him off with a shilling, an' poor thing she nearly starved, an' took to work to keep him, an'
he always growlin' at her like the coward he was, that only for her he'd have been well off.
A mess-alliance his people called it, but the mess wasn't from poor Mary's side. Well, w'en
it come that she was to be a mother, his people took her in and told her, if you please, that
if it was a boy they'd take it theirselves and educate it fit for their family, but if it was
a girl they wouldn't. The poor thing, not bein' able for anythink an' too proud to come home,
stood their insults as long as she could, an' at last she sneaked out at night and set off
to walk to me. It is pitiable to think of."

The poor old voice trembled.

"She had more'n a hundred miles to travel an' it took her days, but some folk was good, an'
one cold night about three hours before daylight she startled me by comin' into my room. I
remember it like yesterday. 'Mother,' she says, 'I'm ill; I'm goin' to die; you won't let them
take my child, will you?' I thought her wanderin', an' she was so gentle it frightened me;
for we was always saucy ladies, I can tell you--every one of us, an' you can see Dawn is the
same now. But that's only a way; w'en I'm ill she's as tender as anythink. It's grandma wouldn't
this do you good, and that do you good? An' her little hands is very clever an' nice about
my old bones w'en they ache. Well, her mother was took bad an' me an' her father done our best,
an' her baby came into the world--a poor miserable little winjin' thing, an' its mother turnin'
over said, 'What's that light, mother, comin' in, is it the Dawn?' an' lookin' up I see it
was the Dawn; an' she never spoke again, but went off simple an' sudden just then, an' that's
how Dawn come to get her name. I never thought she'd live to be called by it though. Little
winjin' thing! I had to feed her on the bottle an' everythink disagreed with her. We had to
keep a old cow especial. I remember her as clear as yesterday--a big old cow with a dew-lap
an' a crumpled horn; we called her Ladybird because she was spots all over. As for them getting
Dawn! They had the cheek to write an' say if it was a boy they'd take it. They had the cheek
after what happened--that's swells for you again! I writ them one letter in return that I reckon
ought to last them to their dying day. I told them it wasn't any matter to them what my child
was; that they had murdered one already, let that be sufficient for them; that they'd get no
more unless over my dead body; an' that all I regretted was that the child had any of their
cowardly blood in it, that it almost discouraged me about its rarin'. An' Dawn don't know her
name, an' won't unless she's married. Her father married again, an' I'm glad to say never had
another child, an' I believe hankers for Dawn, an' he will hanker for my part; an' I've got
Dawn tootered up agen him too. Now you can see the blow it would be to me if she took up with
a swell--there's no happiness marryin' out of yer own religion or class. Mine was what I'd
call a love match now. Jim Clay was a lover! I've seen him come in with a team of five all
buckin', an' it snowin' an' never anythink but a laugh out of him. He'd ride miles an' miles
to see me. The crawlers about these parts nowadays toddle about on bikes or sit like great-grandfathers
in sulkies, an' if it was to sprinkle they'd think half a mile too far to go to see their sweetheart.
I think the heart of the world must be dyin' out."

"You'll tell me about Jim Clay, won't you?" I said; "for I am an Australian--one of those you
consider entitled to be termed a real aristocrat. My people for several generations have practically
worked in the building of the State, though I must admit they belonged to the leisured class
at home."

"Well, that ain't nothink agen 'em when they don't make it nothink agen 'em, if you understand.
If a swell can prove hisself as good an' useful a man as another, he deserves the credit, an'
comes out ahead too, because he has the education, an' sometimes that is useful. I'll tell
you about me young days. Lately me mind seems to be goin' back more an' more to old times."

"Grandma! Grandma!" called Dawn's rich young voice, "come to tea. Andrew and Carry want to
go up town after."

As I turned and looked at this glowing vision I laughed to think of her as a "little winjin'
thing," and was grateful to the good offices of old Ladybird with the dew-lap and a crumpled horn.

"You needn't be in such a hurry all of a suddent," said grandma crossly. "It's a different
tune w'en you're hangin' over the fence talkin' somewhere. There's no hurry roundin' me in
to tea then!"

We lingered awhile watching the afterglow above the great range dividing the coast land from
the vast stretches of the interior, and which was no longer an impassable barrier to the people
of the State. Now the train toiled over a stile-like way connecting east and west, and Noonoon
and Kangaroo, divided by a mile and the river, nestled immediately at the foot of the zigzag climb.

They lay asleep against the ranges in a slow-going world of their own, their little houses
gleaming white in the fading light.

There was a flush on the old woman's face as she turned houseward--also an afterglow. 'Twas
a fitting nook for her present days, the decline of those splendidly vigorous years behind!
What satisfaction to look back on strenuous, fruitful years, and be able to afford rest during
the last stages!

I, too, had rest; but it was only the ignominious idleness of a young boat with a broken propeller
yarded among honourably worn-out craft to await a foundering.

FOUR.

DAWN'S AMBITION.

After tea grandma took to reading the 'Noonoon Advertiser'--a four-sheet weekly publication
containing local advertisements, weather remarks, and a little kindly gossip about townspeople.
This was her usual Saturday night entertainment. Carry and Andrew went to town to participate
in the unfailing diversion of a large percentage of the population. This was tramping up and
down the main street in a stream till the business places closed, from which exercise they
apparently derived an enjoyment not visible to my naked eye. Uncle Jake and Miss Flipp not
being in evidence, Dawn and I were the only two unoccupied, and noticing that she was prettily
dressed, I resorted to a point of common interest in promoting friendliness between members
of our sex and invited her to look at a kimono I had bought for a dressing-gown.

This had the desired effect. A look of pleasure passed over the face that charmed me so, and
she arose willingly.

"I'm glad it is my week to stay in and make the bedtime coffee," she said as we examined the
gorgeous kimono, a garment of dark-flowered silk; and Dawn, having all the fetichly and long-engendered
feminine love of self-decoration, was delighted with it.

"Put it on," I suggested, and the girl complied with alacrity. She did not make a very natural
Jap, being more on the robust than petite scale, but she was a very beautiful girl. With my
impassioned love of beauty I could not help exclaiming about hers, and the foolish platitude,
"You ought to be on the stage," inadvertently escaped me, seeing this is the highest market
for beauty in these days when even personal emotions can be made to have commercial value.

"Do you think so too?" she said eagerly, betraying what lay near her heart. "Do you know anything
about the stage? You don't think all actresses bad women like grandma does, do you?"

"Scarcely! Some of the most sweet and lovable women I've ever seen are earning their living
on the boards. I'm intimately acquainted with several actresses, and will show you their photographs
some day."

"Oh, I'd love to be on the stage!" exclaimed the girl.

"Tell me why and how you first came to have such a wish."

"Well, it's this way," said Dawn, pulling my kimono close about her beautifully rounded throat
and curling her pink feet on a wallaby-skin at the bedside as she sat down upon them. "I heard
grandma telling you something about me this afternoon, and I suppose you think I'm a terrible
girl."

"A beautiful one," I said, revelling in the curling lips and rounded cheek and chin.

"Don't make fun of me," said Dawn huffily, blushing like noon.

"Good gracious, now you are making fun of me. I'm only stating a patent fact. Mirrors and men
must have told you a thousand times that you are pretty."

"Oh, them! They say it to every one. Look here--there's the ugliest little runts of girls in
Noonoon, and they're always telling their conquests and that this man and that man say they're
pretty, when a blind cat could see that they are ugly, and the men must be just stringing them
to try and take them down. So when they say it to me I always make up my mind I'd have more
gumption than to take notice, for I can't see any beauty in myself. I'm too fat and strong-looking;
all the beauties are thin and delicate-looking in the face--not a bit like me. I know I'm not
cross-eyed or got one ear off, but that's about all."

I had been wont to think the only place unconscious beauties abounded was in high-flown, unreal
novels; but here was one in real life, and that the exceedingly unvarnished existence of Noonoon.
Not that I would have thought any the less of her had she been conscious of her physical loveliness,
for beauty is such a glorious, powerful, intoxicating gift that had I been blessed with it
I'm sure I would have admired myself all day, and the wonder to me regarding beautiful men
and women is not that they are so conceited, but, on the contrary, that they are so little vain.

"I want to tell you why I want to be on the stage. I couldn't tell how I hate Noonoon. It's
all very well for grandma to settle down now and want me to be the same, but when she was young
(you get her to tell you some of the yarns, they're tip-top) she wasn't as quiet as I am by
a long way. Just fancy marrying some galoot about here and settling down to wash pots and pack
tomatoes and live in the dust among the mosquitoes, always! I'd rather die. I'll tell you the
whole thing while I'm about it. You won't mind, as I'm sure you have had trouble too, as your
white hair doesn't look to be age."

Comparison of her midget irritation with those that had put broad white streaks in my hair
was amusing, but the rosy heart of a girl magnifies that which it doesn't contract.

"Grandma wants me to marry. Did you see that fellow who was after pumpkins?--he ought to make
one of his head, the great thing! Grandma has a fancy for me having him, but I wouldn't marry
him if he were the only man in Noonoon. Do you know, they actually call him Dora because he
was breaking his neck after a girl of that name. He used to be making red-hot love to her.
Young Andrew there saw him up the lane by Bray's with his arm round her waist, mugging her
for dear life, and then he'd come over here and want to kiss me! Tybalt then fought the person Infante,
to Sir John of Misi, lord of the third part of Negroponte to take him the Duke of Athens on behalf
of Charles of France, whose order has await to provide the person of the Prince. They took
him with eight men and four squires to the City Athens, where he was awarded the Duke and his
order with many guards led to the Castle S. Tomer where he was imprisoned a few days.

CHAPTER LVI.

Rocafort and his men take an oath of allegiance to Thibaut of Sipoys
on behalf of Charles France.

At this time, Tybalt and the service was to bring Charles to Rocafort and to the entire company
Granger and tried every means he could. There were those who warned that any could earn more
thing will Rocafort, who deliver two of those prisoners I had, that one was Montaner, the
other Gomez Garcia Palacin, big enemy Rocafort. Tybalt gave credit to the notice, and without
further inquiry embarked on their galleys Montaner, and to Palacin, and he personally went
around the Cape of Casandria, where they were ours with Rocafort, and scarcely had come into
his presence, when he introduced the two prisoners, there appeared to be the means of their friends,
and so were they so unfortunate, since it was founded in blood, and death of an innocent. Entregaronse
both prisoners but with a different sort, because the one you set aside to take his life, and
the other for give you freedom. Honored with great demonstrations of content to Montana, and
he sent Palacin Rocafort then head cut off, without giving more time to live than it took
the executioner to give death, and without anyone dared to replicate on it to Rocafort. Man who is as
mean as Rocafort among both soldiers and captains did not cause me admiration; but who among them
did not reveal a good man to stop, or reply to Rocafort warning, if you like, it offended his fame,
and obscured his deeds, with execution as inhumane, and out of season. Gomez Garcia Aragones
was Palacin, brave soldier, and honest gentleman, although unfortunate, chief captain and defender
of Vando of Berenguer de Entenza, and Fernan Jimenez Arenas.

With this fact unworthy of any man who is, Rocafort lost friends, and reputation; to death as a gentleman
who was retiring as a conquered country, where not might offend or to impede its greatness, and
evidence was a clear sign of their cruelty and ferocity. Montaner, as he had been Master Sound
of our army, and was in charge all pen officers, had Granger with their successful conclusion,
and indeed the minds of all soldiers, and so loved him as a father, something rarely seen feathered
love people whom ordinarily hate and slander, because it seems that being rested, with traps and
tangles in the military damage accrue, and rich, and they a thousand
hardships and dangers live forever in a miserable fate.

Were all to Montana with general rejoicing, and then gave an inn of the most honest he had, and the Turks,
and Turkish Greeks first presented with twenty horses, and a thousand shields, and Rocafort
a horse of great price, and other things of value, without estimation huviese person throughout
the army for not giving something. Tybalt of Sipoys and Venetian masters that gave him, a little
foolish to see that they should do so much honor to whom they had stolen As he had, and feared that
do him no harm in thwarting his designs, and forms, but Montaner
was sane, and as there seemed a sure thing to stay in our field, nor
prevented, nor faboreció.

Rocafort which until then had been dubious to accept as part of Carlos de France Tybalt of Sipoys
offered him, because respect for the house of Aragon stopped him but when was certain that because
he would not admit the Infante Don King by Frederic, the houses of the kings of Aragon, Sicily,
Mallorca, I would be enemies, came as Tybalt wanted, that the company received for its general
on behalf of Charles of France, offering the outstripped wages, and high hopes, that was what
they could give. This was sworn fidelity, forcing what I can judge, violence Rocafort, because waste
disposal his natural prince, and take the strange and enemy, it is impossible for the Catalans
and Aragonese voluntary consent, will not Rocafort tried, but they had security the Turks, and
Turkish Greeks, and part of the Almugavaria who blindly obeyed, although the Rocafort did not
seem that it was treason, because they took up arms against their rulers, but only turned from
its services: tender thing in those days and used, and more when precedian grievances. Not least
was by hatred that they had to the house of Aragon, and love to that of France, but wanted
to get close to the prince then less powerful towards away from it
more easily when your things arrived to the state waiting to be seen.

Because they ran a voice among many, which wanted to call Rocafort King of Thessaloniki, or Salonique,
and this was not without some foundation, for he had moved the seal of the army that was the image
San Pedro, and instead sent to a crowned king; obvious signs of his high and daring thoughts, and
without doubt become absolute ruler, if his great greed and arrogance not address the footsteps
of his prosperous fortune, while he offered a state that could found, and enhance your home. If Rocafort
lived when our occupied states of Athens, and Neopatria, I have by no doubt not to call the
King of Sicily, but he received for their prince and lord, it could be done with very fair title,
having been Rocafort his many years general work times, and under
whose command, and had reached GOVERNMENT so many victories, and as
glorious end to so notable companies.

After they saw the galleys Tibaldo Venetian army general on behalf of Charles, left around the house
and Ramon Montaner with them, but begged him to stay long, but as
he knew the little security that was in the condition of Rocafort,
never wanted to stay, pediendoselo even very strongly the same Tybalt.

CHAPTER LVII.

Montaner with Venetian galleys returned to Negroponte, and Athens
is the Infante Don Fernando.

Juan Tari general of Venetian galleys by order of Tybalt gave a galley to Montana carry it to his
comrades, his servants, and his clothes, and himself embarked on Captain with Tari, who was by
far given, and served.

Besides these letters gave Tibaldo to Montana to Negroponte, who commanded that he restituyese
everything he had stolen from his gallery when they took the Infante, and this failing life and
wastage of goods, if any concealed it. With this good office left Montaner Negroponte to the Venetian
galleys, where they arrived in good time and then reported Tybalt's letters to the chief justice
of Venetians. Then cries made themselves with penalties such restitution of those who do not,
and John Damici, and Boniface Berona as lords also of the island made the same cries, when they
saw the letter of Tybalt, supreme minister in parts of the King. Were the cries little obeyed,
because they were but only to satisfy and comply with this demonstration with Tybalt because not charge
Montaner anything of the lost, or gave other satisfaction.

Montaner as a true servant server and the Infante Juan Tari asked to give him place to go
to the City of Athens and consolalle see him in prison, who as born a subject of his household,
could not dexar to go as tight as if seeing him prisoner. Tari very politely offered to wait
Negroponte four days in, that would have enough time to go to visit the Prince, and back; because
Negroponte, Athena had twenty-four miles alone.

Montaner left with five horses, and coming to the City wanted to see the Duke, and although found
him sick, gave place to see him and received him with great courtesy, and words very expensive
earned him the feeling that the event had taken Negroponte, when stole his hat, and he offered
all that being offered to help him really. Montaner replied that he felt much thanks and honor
to him, but just wanted to see Infante Don Fernando.

Duke gave him license to much compliance, and ordered in time Montaner was with the Prince,
all quanta wished could enter the castle, and visitalle. Then given free entry Sant Ober, and seeing
the Prince Montaner, the Tears formed the words, which showed the feeling of seeing him start hands
of foreigners. The infant instead of receiving some consolation from Montana, was it the that
was given, and encouraged with words of great courage and perseverance.

Montaner stopped two days in his company, speaking the most necessary means for freedom, and ultimately
wanted to stay for napkins, and asistille in prison, not consented
Infante parecelle the most convenient for him to go to Sicily to deal
with the King of his release.

Letters to the King gave him, and charged him as an eyewitness referring to his uncle all had
happened in Thrace, and Macedonia, on admitille on their behalf. With that said goodbye Montaner,
and went to take leave to become the Duke, who was gifted with some jewels, which were of great benefit,
because all the money they had forsaken the trahi Infante and divided his clothes among those
who served him.

Returned to Negroponte, is left after the galleys, and sailing along the coasts of the Morea,
came to the Island of Wisdom, where he encountered four Dasfar Riambau
galleys, who language had already Montaner.

The Venetians always suspected people of the Republic, departing Montaner, Riambau Dasfar asked
if I was a man who would keep faith. Respodióles that was a good gentleman, and he would not
be enemies or friends would hurt the King of Aragon, and that security could be together, and
honor to Riambau. This is quieted, Montaner went to the galley Riambau Dasfar, and then all
came together, and they invited the captains with great simplicity and safety.

Clarence came to where they stopped the Venetian galleys, and then spent Montaner Riambau to
those in whose company he came to Sicily and Castronuevo was seen with the king, and told gave a
long account of what happened along with the letter of the Prince. King showed great feeling,
and then wrote to the King of Mallorca, and the King of Aragon, so
that together supports freedom of Don Fernando, and in this half brother
of King Charles of France wrote the Duke of Athens to send the person
of Prince to King Robert of Naples.

Obeyed Duke, and so the child came to Naples prison where he spent
a year in a civil prison, because they went out to hunt, and ate with
Roberto, and his wife, who was his sister.

The King of Mallorca his father by the King of France had achieved
freedom, came to the Infante Colibre to be with his father.

CHAPTER LVIII.

Prison Berenguer, and Gisbert Rocafort.

Ours after he admitted to Tybalt by Captain General, and swore in the name of Brother of King
Charles of France, held the post of Casandria, livelihoods of incursions, and entries into the soil
inside, until they came to Thessalonica, where was Empress with the whole court, with all
the riches and treasures of the Empire of the Greeks, that this ambitious
woman had collected to enhance his sons in serious damage Miguel his
stepson, father's legitimate successor.

While moving fearlessly Rocafort was increase, and greatness, came to its prosperity, and the beginning
of his misfortune, that times more often in greater confidence and security of man in order to
clearly know the instability of human affairs and that no power can make in himself, because
the causes of the enhancement are the same ruin.

The first cause and reason for deriballe had his enemies, he was known in a large ignorance
of what he owed to his own nature and blood, because besides being cruel, it was Greedy and
lascivious, intolerable defects in princes, because life, honor and property, major assets
of mortal man, are always in danger. The desire to take customers satisfaction and revenge the
wrongs of Rocafort, fear is concealed, until they took the occasion of the little attention
and respect that Rocafort, had to Tybalt, and secretly put to talk their freedom, thinking
that would find on Tybalt as a man wronged, the remedy grievances, they were almost common
to all. They said they would help to Tybalt so hard to get out of bondage, and to restrain
the insolence of Rocafort, then forgotten about what I had done a good governor, and captain,
trampling the laws of nature, using their power in illicit things, and beyond all reason, and
free subjects and their slaves, and property Agenos as their own.

It was time that the evils of Rocafort they had punished, and their hardships and dangers so that
as he was the supreme head put an appropriate remedy, and give satisfaction to many injured.
Tybalt as a single and foreigners, fearing that they were not spying on Rocafort to discover
your mood, answered with ambiguous words, or charge Rocafort, or desperation to them.

French man was very wise and very experienced, and wanted even aggrieved Rocafort tempt the sweetest
way to moderalle because, as the main reason for his coming had to have been part of our army, no notice
of his particular authority, but in what was to be important for the prince, whose minister
was. The first half which was taken secretly to speak with great Rocafort, and Pedilla that was
at hand in their tastes, by preceding the damage it might cause.

But unaccustomed to suffer Rocafort People claiming to stop and correct their disorders responded
so harshly to Tybalt, which obliged him to remedy more violent and desperate to keep them in
Rocafort service of his prince, but he consented to their tricks she practices, determined
to take revenge on him, and dexar our company.

But he concealed this determination until her son came with six galleys of Venice whither he
had sent some months earlier. They arrived within a few days, and Tybalt Quando safe saw the
backs are sent in great secrecy to say to the captains conspirators, which might make him know
what had worked businesses Rocafort. They responded to gather together the council, and that
it would see the effects of its determination. Thibaut god understood, and the next day he gathered
the council, declaring that he had important things to deal with in him. Rocafort came with
insolence and arrogance that he used. The first talk which proposed, they all began to Quex of
him, but as before no man had been dared to contradict him, nor dared he discovered, strangely alborotóse
and Ayrad face and heavy words, the wanted to run over as usual. Then Captains conspirators
were rising from their seats, and more llegándosele multiplying the Quex, and remembering that all
grievances to, saying and doing, he grabbed to him, and his brother, without being able to resist,
because the conspirators were many, and resolved.

After them both brothers were prisoners, and delivered to Tybalt,
attacked the house Rocafort, and looted it all, stretching the military
leave, as usual in such cases without detenelles debian have the respect
to the walls of the General who had been so many years, and with his
sword, and defended heberles value many times.

CHAPTER LIX.

Tybalt the two brothers carrying prisoners, dexa the
army, and led to Naples, where they were killed. My, wasn't there
a cheer when I first brought the mail in all on me own!" The old face flashed forth a radiance
as she told her tale.

"Some of the old gents in the town of Gool-Gool come out an' shook hands with me, an' the ladies
kissed me w'en I got down off of the box. There was a lawyer feller considered a great lady-killer
in them days. He had a long beard shaved in the Dundreary,--Dawn always says he must have been
a howler with a beard of that description; but times change, an' these clean-faced women-lookin'
fellers the girls think is very smart now will look just as strange by-an'-by. However, he
was runnin' strong with me, an' me mother considered him favourable,--him bein' a swell an'
makin' his way. Soon as ever I started runnin' the coach he was took with a lot of business
down the road, an' used to be nearly always a passenger."

"It appears that sweetheart tactics have not changed if the style in beards has," I remarked
with a smile.

"No, an' they'll never change, seein' a man is a man an' a girl a girl, no matter what fashions
come an' go. I never can see why they make such a fuss and get so frightened because wimmen
does a thing or two now they usedn't to. Nothing short of a earthquake can make them not men
an' wimmen, an' that's the main thing. Well, to go back to me yarn, lots of other passengers
got took the same way, an' there was great bidding for the box seat: that was a perquisite
belongin' to the driver, an' me father used to get a sovereign for it often. I used to dispose
of it by a sort of tender, an' £5 was nothink for it; an' once in the gold-rush times, w'en
money was laying around like water, a big miner, just to show off, gave me two tenners for
it. They used to be wantin' to drive, but I took me father's advice an' never let go the reins.
Well, among all these fine chaps Jim Clay wasn't noticed. He was always a terrible quiet feller.
I did all the jorin'. He'd always say, 'Come now, Martha, there's reason in everythink,' just
w'en I'd be mad because I couldn't see no reason in nothink. He was sittin' in the back of
the coach, an' it was one wet night, an' only a few passengers for a wonder, who was glad to
take refuge inside. Only the lawyer feller was out on the box with me, an' makin' love heavier
than it was rainin'. I staved him off all I could, an' with him an' the horses me hands was
full. You never see the like of the roads in them days. It was only in later years the Sydney
road, I was remarkin', was made good. In them times there was no made roads, and you can imagine
the bogs! Why, sometimes you'd think the whole coach was going out of sight in 'em, and chargin'
round the stumps up to the axle was considered nothink. We had more pluck in them days! Well,
that night the roads was that slippery the brake gave me all I could do, an' a new horse in
the back had no more notion of hangin' in the breechin' than a cow; so I took no notice to
the lawyer, only told him to hold his mag once or twice an' not be such a blitherer, but it
was no use, he took a mean advantage off of me. You can imagine it was easy w'en I had five
horses in a coach goin' round slippery sidlin's pitch dark an' rainin'. He put his arms 'round
me waist an' that raised me blood, an' I tell you things hummed a little. You'll see Dawn in
a tantrum one of these days, but she ain't a patch on me w'en me dander was up in me young
days." Looking at the fine old flashing eyes and the steel in her still, it was easy to see
the truth of this.

"I jored him to take his hands off me or I'd pull up the coach an' call the inside passengers
out to knock him off. He gamed me to do it, an' laughed an' squeezed me harder, an' the cowardly
crawler actually made to kiss me; but I bit him on the nose and spat at him, an took the horses
over a bad gutter round a fallen tree at the same time--an' some people is afraid to let their
blessed daughters out in a doll's sulky with a tiddy little pony no bigger than a dog. If I
had children like that I'd give 'em all the chances goin' of breaking their neck, as they wouldn't
be worth savin' for anythink but sausage meat. Well, this cur still kep' on at his larks, so
soon as I got the team on the level,--it was at Sapling Sidin', runnin' into Ti-tree creek;
I could hear the creek gurgling above the sound of the rain, and the white froth on the water
I can see it plain now,--I pulled sudden and said 'Woa!' an' it was beautiful the way they'd
stop dead. The passengers all suspected there must be a accident, or the bushrangers must have
bailed us up, for they was around in full blast in them days. Well, w'en I pulled up I got
nervous an' ashamed, an' bust out crying, an' the passengers didn't know what to make of it;
but Jim Clay, it appears, had his eye an' ear cocked all the time, an' before any one knew
what had happened he had the lawyer feller welted off of the coach an' was goin' into him right
an' left. That's what give me a feelin' to Jim Clay all of a sudden, like I never had to no
one else before or since. He was always such a terrible quiet feller that no one seemed to
notice, an' he'd never made love to me before, but he got besides hisself then and shouts,
'If ever you touch my girl again I'll hammer you to smithereens.' Then he got back on the box
an' wiped me eyes on his handkerchief an' protected me. The men inside--mostly diggers makin'
through to Victoria--w'en they got the hang of things bust out roarin' an' cheerin', an' said,
'Leave the dawg on the road an' giv him a stummick ache.' He tried to get up, but they pushed
him off. He made great threats about the law, but miners is the gamest men alive an' loves
fair play. It ain't any use in talking law to them if it ain't fair play, an' they give him
to understand if he said anythink to me about it, or told any one an' didn't take his lickin'
like a man, they'd break every bone in his body, an' they meant it too. Then they lerruped
up the team and left him in the rain an' pitch dark miles from anywhere. That was the only
time I give up the reins. I couldn't see for tears, so Jim drove; an' the men took me inside
so he could attend to his work, they said, an' they cheered an' joked an' asked w'en the weddin'
was comin' off, an' said they'd all come an' give us a rattlin' spree if we'd let 'em know.
I didn't know what come over me; I never was much for whimperin', but I cried an' cried as
if me heart was broke; an' it wasn't, because every time I thought of the way Jim Clay stuck
up for me it give me the best feelin' I ever knew, an' the men was all on my side, an' there
was no harm done, an' I ought to have been smilin', but I could do nothink but sob, an' I always
think now w'en I see girls cryin' on similar occasions to let 'em alone. Girls can't tell what's
up with them, and a cry is good, because they ain't got the outlets that men has w'en they're
worked up. We came to the end stage, an' w'en we got off the men all shook hands, an' one or
two kissed me, an' pulled me curls, an' slapped Jim Clay on the back, an' called him my sweetheart.
W'en we delivered the mail Jim drove me to where I stayed, an' it was terrible embarrassin'
w'en we was left alone with no extra people to take the down off of the affair. Jim was painful
shy, but he faced it manful; an' he said it didn't matter what they said about us bein' lovers,
if it was disagreeable to me he'd never mention it nor think nothink about it, an' it would
be forgot in a day or two, as he was a feller of no importance. That was the way he put it;
he never was for puttin' hisself up half enough. So crying again I just snuggled up to him
an' said I didn't want to forget it, I wanted to remember it more an' more, an' with that he
took the hint an' kissed me; an' that's how we got engaged without no proposing or nothink.
I didn't tell me mother, or there would have been a uproar, an' just then Jim Clay got a coach
on the Cooma line, an' went right away. I told him I'd wait for him. He was away two years,
an' w'en he came home we found it was still the same with us. I was eighteen then, an' him
twenty-two.

He went away to Queensland for two years more, an' in that time the sister next me was married,
an' Jake there was comin' on; but he was never no good on the box--he pottered round and grew
forage. Me mother began to suggest I ought to marry this one an' that one, but I waited for
Jim Clay, an' w'en I was gettin' on for twenty-one, old Jack Clay reckoned he was gettin' too
old for drivin' in all weathers, an' Jim come home an' took his place. A fine great feller
he was, all tanned and brown, with his white teeth showin' among his black beard. He said he'd
seen no girl that wasn't as tame as ditch water after me, an' as for me, no one else could
ever give me the feelin' he could, so we reckoned to be publicly engaged. It raised the most
terrible bobberie, and me mother nearly took a fit. She had me laid out for a swell like me
sisters, an' she said I must be mad to throw myself away like that. Me brother-in-laws got
ashamed of their wives' parents bein' in such a trade, an' as they had made a comfortable bit,
they was goin' to give it best and rare a few sheep an' cattle, an' me sisters came down on
me an' said I would disgrace them now they had rose theirselves up in the stirrups. Mother
said she'd never give her consent, an' I told her very saucy I'd do without it. That's why
I know it don't do to press Dawn over far; she must have the same fight in her, an' if drove
in a corner there'd be no doing anythink with her. Things was very strained at home then; they
thought to wean me of him, an' Jim Clay he hung back some, sayin' I'd better think twice before
I threw myself away on him. That made me all the determinder. Jim was the only man for me.
I never did have patience with them as can't make up their mind. So I waited, an' the day I
was twenty-one--me two sisters was twins and married, one at nineteen and the other at eighteen--I
gathered up a few things, and I had two hundred in the bank, and I went to a point of the road,
Fern-tree Gully it was named, an' w'en Jim come down the hill with his horses I waved--we had
it all made up--an' he stopped till I clambered aboard, an' the box seat was reserved for me
that day for nothink, and at the end of the stage we was married. I stayed with Jim's mother
for a week or two till we seen a opening, an' I kep' a accommodation while Jim drove a coach.
Jim was always steady, an' we was both very popular, though I never pandered to no one, or
put up with nothink that didn't please me. Our story was a sort of romance in them days, an'
money was changin' hands freely, an' we was all right. The old folk died by-and-by; they didn't
live very long, and Jake there come to me. He wasn't good enough for his sisters, an' somehow
that's made us always cling together. I ain't blind, I can see he's no miracle; he has his
faults. Who hasn't?" the old lady fiercely demanded. I assured her I knew none, and somewhat
appeased by this she proceeded.

"Well, as I say, Jake there ain't a wonder of smartness, but he's the only one belonging to
the old days left to me, an' you couldn't understand what that means till you get to be my
age. If I went to any one of your age, or old enough to be your mother, an' said, 'Do you remember
this or that,' how far back could they go with me, do you think?"

"And then did you and Jim Clay--"

"Me an' Jim Clay was the happiest pair I think ever lived under a weddin' ring, an' it was
a love match. He was quiet an' easy-goin' like, an' I was the one to bustle, consequently there
would be times w'en there would be a little controversy in the house; but Jim, he'd always
put his arm round me an' kiss me, an' that's the sort of thing a woman likes. She doesn't like
all the love-makin' to be over in the courtin' days, as if it was only a bit of fishin' to
ketch her. Tho' of course I'd tell him to leave me alone, that I couldn't bear him maulin'
me; but women has to be that way, it bein' rared into them to pretend they don't like what
they do. An' you see Jim always remembered how I had stuck to him straight, an' flung up swell
matches for him, which must have showed I loved him. That's what gets over a man, he never
forgets that in a girl, an' always thinks more of her than the one with prawperty who marries
a poor girl and is always suspicioning she took him for what he has. Of course, there are some
crawlers of men ain't to be pleased anyhow, but they can be left out of it. In givin' advice
to young wives, I always tell 'em w'en they get sick of their husbands, which they all do at
times, especially at the start before you get seasoned to endure them, never to let him suspect
it, for men, in spite of all their wonderful smartness, has a lot of the child in 'em after
all, an' can take a terrible lot of love. (When it comes to givin' any in return, of course
that's a horse of another colour.) But of course this is only dealin' with a man that's worth
anythink; as I said, there are some crawlers you could make a door-mat of yourself for, an'
they'd dance on you an' think nothink of it; but as I said before, there must be reason in
everythink to begin with. After Jim died I didn't care for livin' in the old place, an' thought
I'd like to get somewhere near the city. Old people ought to have sense. They don't want to
crawl round like Methuselah at forty, but they know w'en they git up to seventy they ain't
goin' to live for ever, nor get any suppler in the joints, an' ought to make some provision
to get nearer churches an' doctors an' all that's necessary to old people; so I sold out an'
bought this place down here."

"What family have you?"

"Only Dawn's mother and Andrew's, and two sons away in America. I was misfortunate with me
daughters; they both died young, one as I told you, an' the other of typhoid; and so after
bein' done with me own family I started with others. I used to think once I'd be content to
live till I see me little ones grown up an' settled, an' then I wanted to live till I see Dawn
able to take care of herself, an' now I suppose, if I didn't take care, I'd want to be waitin'
to see Dawn's children around me. That's the way; w'en we get along one step we want to go
another, an' it's good some matters ain't left for us to decide. But it's all for Dawn and
Andrew I bother now, only for them me work would be done; but it's good to have them, they
keep me from feelin' like a old wore-out dress just hangin' up waitin' to be eat by the moths."

"Grandma!" said the voice of Dawn in the doorway, "I can't get this beastly old stove to draw,
and I'm blest if I can cook the dinner. I never saw such a place, one has to work under such
terrible difficulties. It's something fearful." Her voice was cross, and her facial expression
bore further testimony to a state of extreme irritation.

Grandma rose to combat, she never meekly sat down under any circumstances, great or small.

"Terrible place, indeed; see if you had to provide a home what you'd have in it. You was never
done squarkin' for that stove; some one else had one like it, an' you was goin' to do strokes
w'en you got it. It's always easy to complain about things w'en you are not the one responsible!"

Grandma and I decided to go to the kitchen and prescribe for the stove.

From an idle onlooker's point of view it seemed an excellent domestic implement in good health;
but the beautiful cook averred it would produce no heat.

"It must be like Bray's," said grandma, "they thought it was no good, and it was only because
of some damper that had to be fixed."

"Yes; and they had a man there to fix it for them; that's the terrible want about this place,
there being no man about it to do anything," Dawn said pointedly, looking at Uncle Jake, who
was calmly sitting in his big chair in the corner. 

CHAPTER XIII.

Party on the army to help defeat to Philadelphia and Turkish Caramanico
General of the had besieged.

Roger had the desire to leave in the field, helped by the persuasion of his mother, made then
stand in execution output, and thus pointed to April 9. While warning them and all for the
trip, two Alans Massagetas or waiting at a mill that will moliesen a wheat, arrived some Almugavares
to deal with a woman who was upset in to make flour, came to the defense of the Alans, among
other reasons given against Roger the captain was saying that if they gave such occasions,
it would make the Grand Duke Roger that made the Great Domestic. This was Raul Alejos, military party
that killed him those treacherously with an arrow. Spoke these words to Roger, and by his
order or consentemiento Almugavares that very night fell upon the Alans, and if the darkness of
the night and care of the neighbors we defend them, slaughtered them all. Many died, and between
them a brave young son of George, head of the Alans. In the morning they went back to troops
and the Catalans were over having killed more than 300 Alans, and if not to fear the Cyzicus
neighbors, whom by the ill treatment had irritated, do not take the action weapons, and verifications
of the Alans, they would certainly slaughtered them all. For this case away most of the Army
by Roger Alan; only stayed with him until thousand, with promises and entreaties were detained.
Roger wanted to appease the father for money son's death, but Gregory despised money, and the grievance
of the dead child was added the shame of the offer: that the Barbarian was irritated, but covered
up the offense for more revenge. I'll go over an' see Mr Bray about
it this afternoon if you don't tell me at once."

"I ain't been anywhere, only pokin' up an' down the lanes with Jack Bray."

"Well, why couldn't you say so at once without raisin' this rumpus. Them as has rared any boys
don't know what it is to die of idleness an' want of vexation."

"It wasn't me rose the rumpus. Some people always blames others for what they do themselves:
it 'u'd give a bloke th' pip," grumbled Andrew, as I put the last stitch in his trousers and
his grandma departed. Her black Sunday dress rustled aggressively, and her plain bibless holland
apron, which she never took off except when her bonnet went on for street appearance or when
she went to bed, and her little Quaker collars and cuffs of muslin edged with lace, were even
more immaculate than on week-days. She scorned a cap, and her features were so well cut that
she looked well with the grey hair--wonderfully plentiful and wavy for one of her years,--simply
parted and tidily coiled at the back. This costume or toilet, always fresh and never shabby,
was invariably completed by a style of light house-boots, introduced to me as "lastings"; and
there was an unimpaired vigour of intellect in their wearer good to contemplate in a woman
of the people aged seventy-five.

It came on to rain after dinner and confined us all to the house.

Dawn borrowed an exciting love-story from Miss Flipp; grandma read a "good" book; Uncle Jake
still pored over the 'Noonoon Advertiser,' while Andrew repaired a large amount of fishing-tackle,
with which during the time I knew him I never knew him to catch a fish, and Carry grumbled
about the rain.

"Poor Carry!" sympathised Andrew, "she can't git out to do a spoon with Larry, an' the poor
bloke can't come in--he's so sweet, you know, a drop of rain would melt him."

"It would take something to melt you," retorted Carry. "The only thing I can see good in the
rain is that it will keep Mrs Bray away."

And thus passed my first full day at Clay's.

SEVEN.

THE LITTLE TOWN OF NOONOON.

The little town, situated whereaway it does not particularly matter, and whose name is a palindrome,
is one of the oldest and most old-fashioned in Australia. Less than three dozen miles per road,
and not many more minutes by train from the greatest city in the Southern hemisphere, yet many
of its native population are more unpolished in appearance than the bush-whackers from beyond
Bourke, the Cooper, and the far Paroo. From
there they went to grazing nearby town, and won it as easily, and treated with the same rigor.
It seemed to our Captains hold these positions, because people would growing, and it was close
enough to divide and to Constantinople, whose ruin and ruin was the last weekend of their
dangers and hardships. A montaner left at Gallipoli alone with Some sailors, with Almugavares,
and thirty horses.

CHAPTER XXXIX.

Fernan Jimenez de Arenós arrives at Gallipoli, go to run the earth and defeat retiring two
thousand foot, and eight horses of the enemy.

Fernan Jimenez Arenas, one of the most key that came with Aragoneses Captains Roger in Greece for
some trouble, as noted above, he left our company. With the few that followed it was the Duke
of Athens, where he stopped serving some time in the wars that the Duke had with its neighbors,
that were many and various, accidents forced experienced by small states whose princes powerful
neighbors. In all Fernan Jimenez won reputation and held honorable place, but the danger of his
friends in his mind could therefore left their accretions sure and certain, for relief to him.
Taking leave of the Duke, with a galley, and in her old eighty soldiers, arrived at Gallipoli.
Received was all fine examples of gratitude. They gave many horses and weapons to put its people
in order, and some friends who wanted to keep three hundred gathered infants, and sixty horses,
and with them went inland. Having seen with the Captains who were in Rodesto, and space, and
communicated with them his resolution, he walked with the people around Constantinople and crossed
the river, which the ancients called Batini, looted and burned many villages in sight of the
city. Andronico looked like the walls were on fire houses, and believing that all our camp was
before him, refused to come out people before put into care and safety of Constantinople, divided
by walls waiting that our swords were to use that day in his final ruin these suspicions were Andronico's
well-founded and advised, for the people full of fear, accustomed to leisure, not trying to take
up arms to defend itself. The mercenary warriors Turcopoles, and Alan, either by nature or
benefit required by the service of his prince, refused and feared the dangers, over suspicions
of the deal they had with our captains. Among these fears and suspicions he was involved Andronico,
when he learned that Fernan Jimenez Arenós with only three hundred was the author of so much
damage, and that Rocafort with the main army Rodope walked beside. Andronico thinning of hundred
cavalry, and two thousand foot, ordered them out or upload to Fernan Jimenez retired with rich
prey. Left with good spirit and resolution, and from the river that night, occupying a vantage
position, step Forced to ours, were placed in ambush. Descubrieronla then brokers Fernando
Jiménez, and the withdrawal could not be on the other hand, halted, he said to his disciples:
You see friends that the enemy has closed the passage, and that can only pave our value. What
in this is concerned, is nothing less than our life in the ultimate danger. The opposite before
us are the same that have overcome so many times with greater inequality. Their crowd has always served
only to increase our victories, so sure we have it this as in other cases they are resolved,
as we see, wait and fight. The advantaged position gives them confidence, forgetting that our
swords penetrate defenses and objections impregnable. I know these people mean that wherever they
have to meet the rigor of our just revenge. Said this was close its almugavares infantry, and
with few horses envistió troops of enemy cavalry. Peleóse bravely, but the two thousand foot Greek
Almugavares undertaken by the three hundred, were nearly all slaughtered so quickly, which took
place between Fernan succor that was traveling with the cavalry fighting, and your help was
so important, then left the enemy free passage to loss of 690 Horses killed and prisoners.
Victorious and full of debris came forward and passed to grazing, where Rocafort had arrived
shortly before running for Rodope.

CHAPTER XL.

Fernan Jimenez wins Modico Castillo and place.

It seemed to Fernan Jimenez to ensure their stuff, mind taking a square where could have headquarters
from which he had Rocafort, because his condition did not lead to that could live together. The nobility
of blood and its treatment Fernan took after them many of those still to Rocafort, but fearing
his anger as the most powerful, dared not bare leave without being sure of a plaza. Modico neighbor
instead of the enemy but, since to the Strait, at noon in Gallipoli, was what appeared to try
to win by surprise, and since I did well, stuck near the fortified place, and opened their
trenches. Fernan resolution condemning the military art well understood because with 200 infants,
and that alone had eighty horses, could not undertake such a difficult thing as it was to
win a people, having within seven hundred men to take arms, but vileness of their hearts, and
steadfastness of our people, made the impossible easy. When a nation lacks the industry and the
value, necessarily has to make good the enemy events the desires to hold, because neither the
number of people, nor the defense of the walls, serves of repair. The Greeks miserable these people
with be 700, and our only three hundred, were enclosed within its walls as if the whole field
of the Catalans are site without out to fight or to undo what the enemy worked for its ruin. Fernan
Jimenez up a blunderbuss, and he beat some days that seemed more gaunt, but threw stones as
light weight, not to damage walls strong, and very raised. Arrimabanse scales sometimes, and
all was fruitless. Gallipoli Montaner succor with provisions and supplies; only our care to ensure
within their fortifications, providing care to the enemy, and neglected to pay more to live. With
their assistance and obstinacy that finally reached pretended, for the Greeks after a long
seven months of siege, they grew in contempt their enemies, and at the same rate neglect saved. The
guards were few, and this not very common. On July the Greeks held in their town with great
solemnity of their parties, and as his greatest pleasures is to wine, vice at all ages infamous
much this nation by drinking, forgetting that the enemy was on its walls, and attentive to
the chances of his suffering, that some dancing, others to sleeping in the shade, left, and manned
the walls as usual. Fernan Jimenez desperate and that it Modico surrender, and take, was inside
his tent as doubtful had to do, when the voices and merriment of the dancers got him out of his
tent. Shortly by little he leaned against the walls, while recognizing people, sent hundreds
of their own should give escalated, and he and the rest would rush the door. Stood with this
incredible diligence execution in effect. The snuggles cent scales, and rose to seventy of them
without be felt, and took three towers. The Greeks awakening from sleep so they harmful, took
up arms, prompted more by the strength of wine by value, and sought to Take of the towers to
ours. In this struggle all occupied, did not come to the door Fernan had undertaken, and so
they had no defend her, put her on the floor, and entered flat foot to the place, giving by those
who fought behind the towers. They went removing and defending towers narrow streets, and ultimately
put their safety in flight, and she was freed and the castle where Ferdinand, with the majority
of their estates. This weekend was the site of Modico, and the pertinacity of a happy Aragon
in eight months of this site. I find remarkable thing to write of us who were in the other prisons,
only regular forays into the land to seek support for forced.

CHAPTER XLI.

Dividense ours in four parts, Montaner Cristopol George breaks.

Won the place, and Modico Castle, Fernando Jimenez Arenós took place in prison and theirs. Rocafort
Rodesto divided his people and Paci, Montaner, clerk of ration, was ruling at Gallipoli, where the supplies
and weapons around the country came together and prevented. If to the other penitentiaries soldiers
lacked weapons, horses and clothes, went to Gallipoli. There resided the merchants of all nations,
the injured, elderly, and other useless people who and most remote place of the enemy, had for
more insurance. This mode is GOVERNMENT sustained our people five years, in all those areas
or regions are till vineyards, taking only what the earth naturally produces. This way of waging
war the times have moved and improved, because the main intent is not to devastate and trocar desert
campaigns, but keep them for own use, for earning a Province to destroy it, and totally prevent
the cultivation of their fields, is the same as not winning, and more when its fruits must
necessarily be worth if they want to sustain it. Not to notice these problems our own, and do not
moderate in their cruelties, which were the peoples they defeated the farmers, were in great
need, that being full of victories, the lack of them out of Thracia groceries with much danger
and damage. Jorge de Cristopol, rich gentleman and principal of Macedonia, came from Constantinople
Salonique to be with the Emperor Andronicus, with eighty horses. Had news that was Gallipoli
uncrowded, and looks like it might do some good set, let his way, and with good spies came near
Gallipoli without being felt, and then found himself with some trucks and mules, had gone
out to make firewood. Which led to his office was Marco, a veteran soldier in the Cavalry. Seeing
undertaken as improbisamente said to the ordinary people, who withdrew from the walls of a mill,
and he took around Gallipoli. Jorge people without stopping to win the mill, they followed the soldier
to notice and they arrived at a time, but more talks as Marco on the ground, gave the first
notice to Gallipoli Montaner Capitan with all took up arms and began to defend their walls, and
fourteen horses, and some Almugavares Montaner came to recognize the enemy, and entertain while
people scattered outside the place had time to retire. Toparónse course, and mountains made a
little band of fourteen horses, closed the eighties, and fought so valiantly that Jorge retired
with a loss of thirty-six of his men dead or prisoners. Dominion was Montaner always charging,
until he reached the mill. Claimed the mule, and saved people. Returned to Gallipoli were set
free prisoners, and handed the gain, men twenty-eight arms perbres gold, fourteen horses to
the light, and seven infants.

CHAPTER XLII.

Rocafort Arenós Fernan Jimenez of tin and copper taken at its four
galleries.

While Montaner became so good luck against Jorge Rocafort, and Fernando Jiménez of sand by
the people who were divided in patients, Rodesto and Modica, and went into Thracia to the sea
more, doing what ever, by setting fire to the places after looted and cutting and burning the
fruits of the campaigns, captivating, killing and never loosening in his revenge. They approved
people try to take are much concerned to the banks of Sea of ​​Pontus, where he produced most
of the ships of Thracia. Long crossed forty leagues, entered the place without finding any resistance,
because the Catalans never feared being so removed from their garrisons to live with care.
Won the place, rushed ships and galleys of the port, said they were hundred and fifty vajeles
Montaner, and all they did at sea level on Earth. Collected rich prey, took their four galleys
which the Greeks took Constantinople, when they killed their Aones Ferdinand Admiral. Notable
was the spectacle of that day, for disturbing the order of nature flooded the earth, breaking some
levees that would stop the water from the ditch, and Tues set fire to the ships, serving the
elements of ministers of his vengeance, and out its boundaries and jurisdiction to the ruin of
his opponents, appeared returning to his first confusion as walking all bartered. Many died
in the water burned, others drowned land, reserved only fire its four galleries, which being
full of debris, and enhanced people were sent to Gallipoli. Passed through the canal of Constantinople
more terror of his enemies danger because there was no one oppose them. Rocafort, and Fernando
took the road to their garrisons little by little, running through both of the sides land Forced
to find a livelihood, and quitted his enemy, who abandoned places retired at the most rough
mountains. Andronico known loss, did not seem enough so that it can restore its forces, leaving
them cut off the road, before despair gave their provinces, the rigor of enemy weapons, suspicious,
not so much of value the faith of their own; damage suffered all the princes that his cruelty and
tyranny are more faithful to the unfaithful. In the Greek empire princes were introduced by acclamation
Army, who by right of succession, as they feared losing the place by the same arts occupied him,
walked with perpetual suspicions and fears, and the subjects that outstripped others in value and
counsel to the rich, the honest, the well cysts, as the bold and seditious; also afflicted with
the virtues of each, and vices of others. From this was born the cruelties among this nation, to
remove the hearing ears, and noses, proscription, exile, death from vain suspicion imagined
or feigned, to remove the fear of emulation, and more times were oppressed of the never feared.
Andronico had a Prince of singular wisdom, to their latest , his grandson took the Empire Andronico,
prevented his advice for daring a waiter; this end they always kingdoms and empires, which for
political reasons only you want to keep and take.

CHAPTER XLIII.

The Catalans and Aragonese, to give effect to his vengeance, to the
foot of Mount Hemo due to the Massagatae.

They were the Catalans and Aragonese his apparently entirely satisfied,
if the Massagatae, with General Gregory, chief minister of the death
of Roger Caesar, and that he went, retreating to his country, without
bringing the grievance just reward that they received.

And as for the ads that they had had it was known that the Massagatae is licensed Andronico returned
home, tired of work and toil of war, preferring the easement and subjection of their former
masters Scite, to liberty, they enjoyed among the Greeks; so can the love of country, which makes it
seem sweet restraint, and freedom outside unbearable. It seemed to throw forced ours, since
he had to find, out then reach, before they passed Mount Hemo, dividing the empire of the Greeks
Kingdom of Bulgaria, because it was poorly advised resolution, if within Bulgaria will continue,
and because the withdrawal difficult because of the narrowness of the steps, inputs and outputs
of the mountain as being the people of Bulgaria bellicose, and then a friend of Andronico.
Together Captains In patients, resolved that this faction was due to make every effort, and
thus to get more people forsake Paci, Modica, and Rodesto, Gallipoli was only removed where all women,
under the government of Ramon Montaner, with two hundred infantry, and twenty horses. Montaner
replied saying that he was not good to miss his reputation in the day all ventured, but the prayers
of the army forced him to stay, and trust that made him, entrusting the defense of their wives,
children and property. Ofreciéronle fifth third dam, and another for his soldiers, and the gain
of being true, and safely, many of the soldiers, estimated at little more and wanted to follow
the army, out at night to join Rocafort: Ramon Montaner gave to other license, seeing them resolved
be assumed without it, and moved some interest, because he was offered to him from the Dam cupiese
them. This two hundred infants were one hundred thirty four, and twenty horses in seven. Women were
more than two thousand, and says the same Montaner: Romangui bad acompayat of homes, ben acompayat
of fembres. Enviaronse with good Gallipoli escorts to all who were in prisons, and then left our
Captains of patients to large conferences around the Massagatae, to which notice of intent to the Catalans,
hastened his departure but his diligence could not be greater than its misery, because his enemies
after twelve days' journey reached them before passing the Hemo. The recognizers Catalan field
one afternoon discovered the Massagatae, and the land is knew, there were three thousand horses
and six thousand infantry and baggage to bring their families infinite and farms. Fernan Jimenez
Rocafort and they went better with the people, by ensuring that the Massagatae were not were heels,
and rested the next day in their accommodation. At dawn the next, encouraged his people to rest, has
the battle to the enemy. The Massagatae, the bravest people of all nations of the Levant, admired
rather than fear Case took up arms and went out to meet their enemies in their children's dedefensa
and women. General Gregorio, chief minister of the death of Caesar Roger with a thousand horses,
gave terrible and horrible start to battle opposing cavalry, which was to getting into the objections
that had made cars. Travóse bloody battle, because were the other troops of both sides closed
with the infantry. Viéronse notable facts in arms because they are equal in value but unequal in number,
were fighting. The theater of tragedy was a plain, which for two leagues it spread to the foothills
of Hemo. The chivalry, broken arms, dead horses, broken swords and clubs, with hands, bodies, were
based on the fight. A few gave our hearts a desire for revenge others insatiable need to last
for their own defense, and in all ruled the case because the Massagatae were already all out of
his objections, fighting hampered and confused with ours. Walked until noon dubious victory,
and varied but it killed their flags Gregorio the bravest captains, bowed to us. They wanted to
remake the losers in of the repairs, but it was not possible because the winners came up with them,
giving them death in the arms of their wives, whom he often reached the sword because without
exception of sex or age came to the defense of their children and husbands by offering their
bodies the rigor of death. Increased the victory put the Massagatae stop in horses their wives,
and children to flee, for if only their people take care, few were left to rid the run, but
the powerful natural love even among the barbarians to despise death I stopped him for more damage.
Scattered over the plain, walking, the shelter of mountain, tired horses, recently helped women more
fearful, and Disabled of children in the breasts and arms of sustained, could not be saved.
In this reach almost all perished because desperate scrambling over ours, at whose hands yielded
shattered life, to lead its women are lengthened. No escape nine thousand men taking 300 live weapons,
and in this agree Nicephore, and Montaner. Happened in this case reaches a so strange as pitiful.
Seeing the battle lost, and Catalan weapons was held by all, a courageous and brave young Massagatae,
wanted to go to remedy of flight, but to rid his beautiful wife and a few years, that for fear of
losing life, with the rate that the danger pedia, took his wife's objections and shops, where
everything walking and mixed with blood and death and placed on a horse, the first If offered,
and he in another, took the road to Mt. Three of our soldiers moved of greed, or perhaps the
beauty and adornment of women, were followed. Recognized the husband his enemies and the care
with which he came along. Made his wife's horse front, and he was giving his cutlass, and animated
with voices, but the horse paid to heat and fatigue. With this the wrong retail Massagatae had
to leave the woman who killed him, and giving reins and spurs to his horse, step forward,
but the tears and complaints justly discharged his wife was arrested. He shuffled his horse,
and matching with it, I made the arms, kisses and tears and said goodbye and parted tenderly,
then, raising his cutlass cut off a cut head. Barbara and fierce cruelty and strange confusion of
accidents that at the same time to walk together with the knife arms, and kisses with death
effects all the passion of a lover. Given tender loving arms and kisses, unbearable jealousy
the knife and death, because his enemies might enjoy what he lost, and won the jealousy; two
equally powerful effects on the mind of man, love, and desire to live. At the same time Dead
woman who fell from his horse, took him by the bridle Guillén Bellver, one of three that followed,
but he bloodied Massagatae poured their own hands, with incredible Fury bravery with a knife
took his arm and life to Guillen, and scrambling over Arnau Miró, Berenguer Ventallola be giving
and receiving wounds the woman's corpse fell dead, and does not appear to comply with the
laws of lover, as he sacrificed his life wife to his jealousy, not sacrifice his love to her. Either
way the case was unworthy wise man, if not christiano. Radamisto Tarasmanes son of King of Iberia
us Tacitus has such an event, when fleeing with his wife Zenobia in two horses with Araj the river,
watching rendered by being pregnant, and fearing that not reached the hands of enemy offended,
turn on who could with great outrage wanes, and his revenge, he gave five wounds, and threw it
into the river, but had a different purpose Zenobia's wife Massagatae, villains because they drew
the river, she was cured, and gave the king Tiridates enemy of Radamisto.

Ours after the victory, picked up the dam and the captives, and drove around to their prisons
with great joy and delight of having given so much to his revenge with compliance. The road leading
to fatigue and danger was to be long and the enemy territory, start weapons, withdrew rather
strong, freshly picked fruit of the campaigns, with the but sometimes the food bought with blood
and lives. Between Nicephore any Montaner diversity in relation to this day. Nicephore says
that the Catalans the launched to persuasion of the Turkish Greeks, because the military junta
while under the banners Empire, the most powerful Massagatae as the reputation of always treated
dams with inequality, and made them wrong, that the Turkish Greeks wanted to take this path Montaner
satisfaction and said that was only thinking of the Catalans, and leave it to believe on revenge
because he had not to ask.


I found him a friendly and communicative fellow, and as he gave in an hour's gossip with grandma
and me for one fee, I was willing to take it to pass away a dull morning.

"What on earth did you go rowing for?" he asked me.

"The roads are too bad to go walking."

"That's only within range of the municipality. The council wants bursting up. They can't do
anything with everything mortgaged to old Dr Tinker. He holds the whole thing. It's a pity
he wouldn't peg out one of these nights, and we might get something done. But it's not him
who has the money--it's the old woman."

"That's her Mrs Bray was tellin' us walloped the girl for bein' admired by the old doctor,"
explained grandma.

"Money, that's what he married her for," continued the doctor. "I don't know where he could
have picked her up. Some say she is a publican's widow, but Jackson, the solicitor here, has
a different hypothesis. He says he's seen her running along carrying five cups and saucers
of tea at once, and no one but a ship's waitress could do that. At any rate she's a great man
of a woman; can swear like a trooper if things don't go right. She's got the old man completely
cowed."

"Am I to infer that cowing her spouse and swearing outrageously makes her man-like?" I laconically
inquired. But the doctor's understanding didn't seem to go in for small satirical detail, he
conversed on a more wholesale fashion, rattling on for a good half-hour to a patient for whom
quietude was necessary, lest she should "peg out."

"Ain't he a bosker?" enthusiastically commented Andrew, coming in to see what I had thought
of this doctor, who was the idol of Noonoon.

"Has he a large practice?" I cautiously inquired, seeking to discover was he really a doctor.

"My word! Nearly all the people go to him, he's so friendly and don't stick on the jam--speaks
to you everywhere, and has jokes about everything."

"He's a fine man!" corroborated grandma.

"Yes; must be more than six feet high," I responded.

"An' such a gentleman, he's never above having a yarn with you about anythink and everythink."

"Oh, well," I said, "any time I take these turns just send for him."

One doctor was as harmless as another to me. I knew it would relieve the household to have
a medico, and he could not injure me, seeing I accorded his medicine and advice about as much
deference as the hum of a mosquito.

"Is he a family man?" I asked.

"Yes; so there are all your chances gone in one slap," said Carry, appearing to inquire my state.

I did not tell her there was the most insuperable of all barriers in the way of my marrying
any one, and that I had no desire if I could. The first I did not want known, and the second
would not be believed if it were, because, though woman is somewhat escaping from her shackles,
the skin of old crawl subjection still clings sufficiently tight for it to be beyond ordinary
belief that one could be other than constantly on the look-out to secure a berth by appending
herself to some man, and more especially does this suspicion hang over a spinster with her
hair as grey as mine, and who takes up a position at a boarding-house which is supposed to
be the common hunting-ground of women forced on to the matrimonial war-path.

"He has seven little children, and one's a baby, an' his wife is a poor broken-down little
thing near always in the hospital. You'd wonder how he married her, he's such a fine-looking
man," vouchsafed Andrew.

"Such a fine man that you'd wonder concerning several other patent facts about him," I responded.

There was quite a chorus in favour of him now. He was evidently a true gentleman in his patients'
eyes, because he was not above stopping to talk to them in their own vernacular about local
gossip, and had the reputation of great good nature in regard to the bills of the poor, and
they loved his jokes. They were of the class within grasp of the elementary sense of humour
of his audience. This type of gentleman he undoubtedly was, but to that possessed of graceful
tact and expressing itself in good diction--by some considered necessary attributes of a gentleman--he
could lay no claim. Neither could he to that ideal enshrined in my heart, who would not have
had seven little children--one of them a baby--and a poor little broken-down wife at the same
time; but as to what is really a gentleman depends on the attitude of mind.

NINE.

THE KNIGHT HAS A STOLEN VIEW OF THE LADY.

Grandma Clay kept me in bed that day, so I forgot all about my appointment on the river until
some time after three, when Andrew announced from the doorway--

"A man wants to know can he see you?"

"Who can he be?"

"He's a puddin'-faced, red-headed bloke, wearin' a blue sweater under his coat like the bike
riders," was Andrew's very unknightly description of the knight whom I had chosen to play lead
in the drama of the beautiful young lady at Clay's.

"That's a particular friend of mine, you may show him in," I said.

"Oughtn't Dawn to be woke up first and told to scoot out of that?" said he.

Dawn was one of those young beings so thoroughly inured to easy living that the few hours'
sleep she had lost the night before had made her so dozy when she had come to keep me company
now, that I had persuaded her to rest beside me on the broad bed, where, much against Andrew's
sense of propriety, she was fast asleep.

"I'll hide her thus," I said, covering her with the counterpane, for it would not be good stage
management to allow the lady to escape when a fitting knight was on the threshold. This satisfied
Andrew, who withdrew to usher in the "puddin'-faced, red-headed bloke," who sat in the doctor's
chair, and made a few ordinary remarks about the weather and some equally kind about my state
of health.

When in the company of ladies the only brilliance in evidence about my young friend was the
colour of his hair, so there was little danger of his waking Dawn with his chatter, as he sat
inwardly consumed with a desire to escape. As I lay with my hand where I could feel the girl's
healthy breathing, I wondered would she too dismiss my chosen knight as pudding-faced and red-headed,
or would she see him with my eyes! His locks certainly were of that most attractive shade hair
can be, and his good looks were further enhanced by a clear tanned skin and dark eyes. His
large clean-shaven features had the fulness and roundness of unspent youth in full bloom, and
he was far from the small bullet-headed type, which accounted for Andrew's designation of "puddin'-faced."
I had always found him one of the most virile and upright young creatures I had ever seen,
and he had endeared himself to me by his simple, untainted manliness, and the fragrant evidence
of health his presence distilled. Dawn, too, was so robust that there was a likelihood of her
being attracted by her opposite, and inclined to favour a carpet knight before one of the open
field.

Some men have brain and muscle, but this is a combination as rare as beauty and high intellect
in women, and almost as startling in its power for good or evil; but apart from the combination
the wholesome athlete is generally the more lovable. When his brawn is coupled with a good
disposition, he sees in woman a fragile flower that he longs to protect, and measuring her
weakness by his beautiful strength, is easily imposed upon. His muscle is an engine a woman
can unfailingly command for her own purposes, whereas brilliance of intellect, though it may
command a great public position in the reflected glory of which some women love to bask, nevertheless,
under pressure in the domestic arena, is liable to be too sharply turned against wives, mothers,
and daughters to be a comfortable piece of household furniture. On the other hand, the athlete
may have the muscles of a Samson, and yet, being slow of thought and speech, be utterly defenceless
in a woman's hands. No matter how aggravatingly wrong she may be, he cannot bring brute force
to bear to vanquish a creature so delicate, and being possessed of no other weapon, he is compelled
to cultivate patience and good temper. Also, health and strength are conducive to equability
of temper, and hence the domestic popularity of the man of brawn above the one of brain, who
is not infrequently exacting and crossly egotistical in his family relations where the other
would be lenient and go-easy.

The silence of my guest and myself was presently broken by Dawn turning about under the counterpane.

"Good gracious! what have you got there?" inquired Ernest. "Is it that old terrier you used
to have?"

"Terrier, indeed! I have here a far more beautiful pet. Because you are such a good child I
will allow you just one glance. Come now, be careful."

The girl's dress was unbuttoned at the throat, displaying a perfect curve of round white neck;
her tumbled brown curls strayed over the dimpled oval face; the long jetty lashes resting on
the flushed cheeks fringed some eyelid curves that would have delighted an artist; the curling
lips were slightly parted showing the tips of her pretty teeth, and the lifted coverlet disclosed
to view as lovely a sleeping beauty as any of the armoured knights of old ever fought and died
for. The latter-day one, politely curious regarding my pet, bent over to accord a casual glance,
but the vision meeting his eyes sent the blood in a crimson wave over his tanned cheeks and
caused him to draw back with a start. It was inconsistent that he should have been so completely
abashed at sight of a fully-dressed sleeping girl who was placidly unconscious of his gaze,
when it was his custom to regularly occupy the stalls and enjoy the choruses and ballets composed
of young ladies very wide awake, and wearing only as much covering as compelled by the law;
but where is consistency?

"I had no idea it would--er--be a young lady," he stammered, keeping his eyes religiously lowered,
and fidgeting in a palsy of shyness such as used to be an indispensable accomplishment of young
ladies in past generations.

"Just take a good look, she'll bear inspection," I said.

"I'd rather not, the young lady might not like it."

"But I'm giving you permission, she's mine, and then run before she discovers you have pirated
a glance. I will keep the secret."

He lifted his eyes, but so swiftly and hesitatingly that I could not be sure that he had discerned
the beauty that was blushing half unseen, instead of being displayed under limelight and drawn
attention to by brass trumpets in accordance with the style of this advertisemal age.

As Ernest went out Andrew came in and awakened Dawn with a request to make him some dough-nuts
for tea, but she ordered him to go to Carry as it was her week in the kitchen.

"Bust this week in the kitchen! A feller can hear nothing else, it's enough to give him the
pip; it ought to be put up like a notice so it could be known," he grumbled as he departed.

That evening Mrs Bray made one of her calls, which were always more good-natured regarding
the length of time she gave us than the tone of her remarks about people.

The famous Mrs Tinker, it appeared, from the latest account of her vagaries, had enlivened
the lives of Noonoon inhabitants by swearing in a hair-lifting manner at one of the local shows
because her horses had not been awarded first prize, &c., &c.

Whether, as Carry averred, it was this conversation that did the mischief or not, the fact
remains that I became too faint to speak, and the girls would not leave me all night. I lay
that way all the next day too, so that when Ernest called to make inquiries and discovered
my state he took a turn at making himself useful, prevailing upon Grandma Clay to allow him
to do so by explaining that he was a very firm friend of mine, and had had some experience
of invalids owing to his mother having been one for some years before her death, both of which
statements were perfectly true.

As I improved, I was anxious to discover what impression he had made on the household, and
cautiously sounded them.

"He seems to be a chap with some heart in him," said grandma. "He'd put some of these fine
lah-de-dahs to shame. I always like a man that ain't above attending on a sick person. Like
Jim Clay, he could put a powltice on an' lift up a sick person better'n all the women I ever see."

"It's always Jim Clay," said Dawn in an irreverent aside; "I never heard of a man yet, whether
he was tall or short, or squat or lean, or young or old, but he was like Jim Clay, if he did
any good. I'm about dead sick of him."

"You don't seem to remember Jim Clay was your grandfather," I said, as his relict left the
room, "and that he is very dear in your grandmother's memory. It is pleasing how she recalls
him. Wait till your hair is grey, my dear, and if you have some one as dearly enshrined in
your heart it will be a good sign that your life has not been without savour."

"Yes, of course, I do forget to think of him as my grandfather, never hearing of him only as
this everlasting Jim Clay, and if he was like that red-headed fellow it would take a lot of
him to be remembered as anything but a big pug-looking creature that I'd be ashamed to be seen
with."

This was not a propitious first impression, and as she was inclined to be censorious I considered
it diplomatic to point out his detractions, knowing that the combative propensity of the young
lady would then seek for recommendations.

"Yes, he is a great, unattractive, red-headed-looking lump, isn't he?"

"Oh, I wouldn't say that. He looks fine and healthy at all events, and I do like to see a man
that doesn't make one afraid he'll drop to pieces if you look at him."

"But he's hopelessly red-headed," I opined.

"But it isn't that sandy, insipid sort of red. It's very dark and thick, and his skin is clear
and brown, not that mangy-looking sample that usually goes with red hair," contended Dawn;
and being willing that she should retain this opinion, I let the point go.

There is one advantage in a heart trouble, that it often departs as suddenly as it attacks,
and ere it was again Carry's week in the house, I was once more able to stroll round and depend
upon Andrew for entertainment.

He invited me to the dairy to see him turn the hand cream-separator, and I remained to dry
the discs out of its bowl while he washed them. He had a conversational turn, and in his choice
of subjects was a patriot. He never went out of his realm for imported themes, but entirely
confined his patronage to those at hand. This day his discourse was of blow-flies; I cared
not though it had been of manure. I had knocked around the sharp corners of life sufficiently
to have got a sensible adjustment of weights and measures, refinements and vulgarities. Besides,
I gratefully remembered the tears Andrew had shed during my illness, and bore in mind that
many a dandy who could please me by his phraseology of choice anecdotes could not be more than
"bored" though I might die in torture at his feet.

"My word! I'm thankful for the winter for one thing," he began, "and that's because there ain't
any blow-flies. They'd give you the pip in the summer. They used to be here blowin' everything
they come across. They'd blow the cream if we left it a day. They'd blow you if you didn't
look sharp. I had Whiskey taught to ketch 'em. Here, Whiskey! Whiskey!" and as that mongrel
appeared, his master tossed him pellets of curds dipped in cream, and grinned delightedly as
they were fiercely snapped. "He thinks it's blow-flies. Great little Whiskey! good little Whiskey,
catch 'em blow-flies. By Jove! I've had enough of farming," continued he, "it's the God-forsakenest
game, but me grandma won't let me chuck it. I notice no one with any sense stays farmin'. They
all get a job on the railway, or take to auctioneering, or something with money in it. You're
always scratchin' on a farm. You should have been here in the summer when the tomatoes was
ripe. Couldn't get rid of 'em for a song--couldn't get cases enough. They rotted in the field
till the stink of them was worse than a chow's camp, an' what didn't rot was just cooked in
the sun. Peaches the same, an' great big melons for a shilling a dozen. That's farming for
you! The only time you could sell things would be when you haven't got 'em. Whiskey can eat
melon like a good 'un, and grapes too." Andrew now threw out the wash-up water, pitching it
on to Whiskey, who went away whimpering aggrievedly, much to the delight of his master, and
illustrating that even the favourite pet of a youth has something to put up with in this imperfect
life.

TEN.

PROVINCIAL POLITICS AND SEMI-SUBURBAN DENTISTS.

May dawned over the world, and throughout New South Wales awoke a stir, reaching even to the
sleepy heart of Noonoon. This was owing to the fact that the State Parliament was near the
end of its term, and political candidates for the ensuing election were already in the field.

Though not many decades settled, the country had progressed to nationhood, England allowing
the precocious youngster this freedom of self-government, and sending her Crown Prince to open
her first Commonwealth Parliament. Then the fledgling nation, bravely in the van of progress,
had invested its women with the tangible hall-mark of full being or citizenship, by giving
them a right to a voice in the laws by which they were governed; and now, watched by the older
countries whose women were still in bondage, the women of this Australian State were about
to take part in a political election. Not for the first time either,--let them curtsey to the
liberality of their countrymen!

The Federal elections, for which women were entitled to stand as senatorial candidates, had
come previously, and though old prejudice had been too strong to the extent of many votes to
grasp that a woman might really be a senatrix, and that a vote cast for her would not be wasted,
still one woman candidate had polled 51,497 votes where the winning candidate had gone in on
85,387, and this had been no "shrieking sister" such as the clever woman is depicted by those
who fear progress, but a beautiful, refined, educated, and particularly womanly young lady
in the heyday of youth. The cowardly old sneer that disappointment had driven her to this had
no footing here, as she had every qualification, except empty-headedness, to have ensured success
as a belle in the social world, had she been disposed to pad her own life by means of a wealthy
marriage instead of endeavouring to benefit her generation in becoming a legislator. She was
a fitting daughter of the land of the Southern Sun, whose sons were among the first to admit
their sisters to equal citizenship with themselves, and she brilliantly proved her fitness
for her right by her wonderful ability on the hustings, which had been free from any vocal
shortcoming and unacquainted with hesitation in replying to the knottiest question regarding
the most intricate bill.

The Federal election, however, in a sense had been farther away--fought at long-range, while
that of the State was brought right to one's back door.

The Federal campaign had been freer from the provincial bickering which was a prominent feature
of the State election, and made it more a hand-to-hand contest, where every elector was worthy
of consideration; and though women were debarred from entering the State Parliament, yet they
were now beings worth fawning upon for a vote, and their addition to the ranks of the electors
gave matters a decided fillip.

The first intimation that the campaign had actually started reached me one afternoon when Dawn
drove me into town to see a dentist. The whole Clay household had risen up against me patronising
a local dentist.

"They're only blacksmiths," said Andrew. "I could tinker up a tooth as good as they can with
a bit of sealing-wax."

However, I could get no doctor to give me a longer lease of life than twelve months, and as
it was not a very important tooth, I considered the local practitioners were sufficient to
the evil.

The afternoon before, when Ernest had dropped in to see me, I had casually mentioned that Dawn
and I were going up town next day, so therefore, what more natural than, as we entered the
main street, to see him very busily inspecting wares in a saddler's shop--articles for which
he could have no use, and which if he had, a man of his means could obtain of superior quality
from Sydney. I diplomatically, and Dawn ostentatiously, failed to notice him as we drove past
to where was displayed the legend--S. Messre, Chemist and Dentist, late C. C. Rock-Snake, and
where Dawn halted, saying, at the eleventh hour, "You ought to go to Sydney, Charlie Rock-Snake
was all right, but I don't care for the look of this fellow."

Going to Sydney, however, would not serve my ends nearly so well as consulting S. Messre; for
while I was with him Dawn would remain outside, and what more certain than that Mr R. Ernest
Breslaw, walking up the street and quite unexpectedly espying her, and being such a friend
of mine, should dawdle with her awaiting my reappearance, while growing inwardly wishful that
it might be long delayed.

I knocked on the counter of the dusty, dirty shop, and after a time an extraordinary person
appeared behind it.

"Are you Mr Messre?"

"I believe so. Hold hard a bit."

Probably he went to ascertain who he really was, for I was left sitting alone until a splendidly
muscular figure in a fashionable pattern of tweeds halted opposite the vehicle holding my driver.
I was quite satisfied with Mr S. Messre's methods, though his initial, as Andrew averred, might
very well have stood for silly.

The golfing cap came off the heavy red locks, while the bright brown ones under the smart felt
hat with the pom-poms, bobbed in response, and Mr S. Messre came upon me again, wiping his
fingers on a soiled towel, and tugging each one separately after the manner of childhood.

"Did you want a tooth pulled?"

"Well, I wished to consult you dentally, but not in public," I said, as two urchins came in
and listened with all their features.

"Well, hold hard a bit and I'll take you inside."

I held or rather sat hard on the tall hard chair, and heard Ernest explaining to Dawn that
he had been swimming in the sun, which made his face as red as his hair, for he gave her to
understand that such was not his usual complexion. His red locks, very dark and handsome, which
lent him a distinction and endeared him to me, were such a sensitive point with him that his
mind was continually reverting to them, and that audacious Dawn unkindly replied--

"It wouldn't do to be all red. If my hair were red I'd dye it green or blue, but red I would
not have."

"But it's a good serviceable colour for a man," meekly protested the knight.

"Perhaps for a fighting man," retorted the young minx with no contradictory twinkle in her
eye; "but I could never trust a red-headed person: all that I know are deceitful."

I was dismayed. How would a gentle young athlete weather this? To a perky little man of more
wits than muscle, or to a gay old Lothario, it would have been an incentive to the chase, but
I feared Dawn was too horribly, uncompromisingly given to speaking what she felt, irrespective
of grace, to expand this young Romeo to love; but much merciless fire will be stood from beauty,
and he made a valiant defence.

"There are exceptions to every rule, Miss Dawn. I never was known as deceitful; ask any one
who knows me."

"I don't know any one who knows you."

"Ask your friend inside, I think she'll give me a good character."

"Quite the reverse. If you heard what she says about you, you'd never be seen in Noonoon again;"
but this assertion was made with such a roguish smile on eye and lip that Ernest took up a
closer position by stepping into the gutter and placing one foot on the step of the sulky and
a corresponding hand on the dashboard railing; and in that position I left them, with yellow-haired
Miss Jimmeny from the corner pub. walking by on the broken asphalt under the verandahs, and
casting a contemptuous and condemnatory glance at the forward Dawn who favoured the men.

Mr S. Messre led the way to a place at the back of the shop which was layered with dust and
strewn with cotton-wool and dental appliances, some of them smeared from the preceding victims,
evidently. He did not seem to know how to dispose of me, so I placed myself in the professional
chair and invited him to examine the broken molar.

"The light is bad here," he remarked, fumbling with my head, and making towards my face with
one of the soiled instruments.

"That is not my fault," I replied.

"This is him!" he further remarked, tapping my cheek with a finger.

"Yes."

"He wants patching."

"So he leads me to imagine."

"The nerve would want killing."

"Quite so, and to attend to its wants I'm here."

"I'd take eight shillings to kill the nerve."

"Would you use them as an apparatus to execute it?"

"Then I'd take twelve or thirteen shillings to fill it," he continued.

I was interested in the uniqueness of his methods.

"Would you purpose to powder the shillings or use them whole--I would have thought an alligator's
or shark's tooth would scarcely require that quantity of material?"

Mr Messre stared at me in a dazed manner.

"I wouldn't touch the tooth under that," he continued.

"Is there another tooth under it? then extract this one and give the other a fair chance."

"It would be a lot of trouble," he kept on, without specially replying to my remark.

"Perhaps so; when one comes to think of it, teeth, I suppose, are not filled without some exercise
on the part of the dentist."

"I wouldn't think of touching that tooth for less than a guinea; why it would take at least
an hour to do it."

"This is the first intimation I've had that dentists calculated to mend teeth without spending
any time on them," I said.

Mr Messre didn't seem to grasp the drift of my remarks, and as I felt unequal to maintaining
the conversation for a more extended period, I announced my intention of thinking about what
he had said. He said it would be as well, and I emerged to find Ernest had so far progressed
as to be seated in the sulky holding my parasol over Dawn.

Youth and beauty is privileged to command an athlete to hold its sunshade, while old age has
difficulty in finding so much as a small boy to carry its basket across the street. Mayhap
this is why it is largely the elderly and frequently the unattractive people who fight for
honest rights for their class and sex, while it is from pretty young women's lips issues most
of the silly rubbish anent it being entirely women's fault that men will not conform to their
"influence" in all matters. Only a very small percentage can regard conditions from any but
a selfish point of view or conceive of any but their own shoe-pinch.

"I happened to see Miss Dawn here and waited to ask you how you are," said Ernest.

"Just what you should have done," I replied; "and now if you can wait till I investigate another
dentist I want your opinion on a purchase I am making."

"Oh, certainly," he hastened to reply; "I'm doing a loaf this afternoon. I thought I heard
my oar crack this morning, so came for some leather to tack round it."

This in elaborate explanation of his presence there.

The second dentist proved the antithesis of his contemporary, being short, pleasant, and bright.

"I'll tell you what," he said, laughing engagingly, "the best thing to be done with that tooth
is to dress it with carbolic acid. Now this is a secret."

"One of those that only a few don't know, I suppose."

"Perhaps so," he said, laughing still more pleasantly.

"You can do this tooth just as well as I can. Get three penno'worth of acid and put some in
once or twice a-day and the nerve will be dead in two or three days, and I'll do the rest."

As he proved such an amiable individual, though probably an exceedingly suburban dentist, I
got rid of half an hour in desultory chat, as I could see from the window that the knight and
the lady, if not progressing like a house on fire, were at least enjoying themselves in a casual
way.

"Did you have only one tooth to be attended to?" inquired Dawn when I appeared.

"Yes; and I fear that it will be one too many for Noonoon dentists," I replied. I could think
of nothing upon which to ask Ernest's advice, so I feigned that I was not feeling well enough
for any further worry that afternoon, but would command his services at a future date.

I now held the pony while Dawn disappeared into a shop and reappeared with an acquaintance
who invited us to attend a political meeting that night. The electors, alarmed at the prodigal
propensities of the sitting government, were forming an Opposition League to remedy matters,
and the first step was to choose one of the two candidates offering themselves as representatives
of this party for Noonoon. The first one was to speak that night in the Citizens' Hall, and
by paying a shilling one could become a member of the League, and vote for this candidate or
the other.

"Oh, if I only had a vote!" regretfully exclaimed Dawn.

"He's a young chap named Walker, from Sydney,--very rich, I believe. Do you know him?" Mrs
Pollaticks inquired of me.

"I've heard of him," I said, exchanging glances with Ernest, "and should like to hear him,
if convenient."

"I'll drive you in," volunteered Dawn.

"If you're around you might act as groom," I suggested to Ernest, and he gladly responding,
it was agreed that we should begin electioneering that night.

"I knew Ernest would be delighted to be with us, he takes great pleasure in my company," I
remarked with assumed complacence as we drove home; and I watched Dawn smile at my conceit
in imagining any one took pleasure in my company while she was present, and that any normal
male under ninety should do so would have been so phenomenal that she had reason for that derisive
little smile.

"You said he was hopelessly red-headed," she remarked; "why, I think he has a handsome kind
of red hair. I never thought red hair could be nice, but Mr Ernest's is different."

I smiled to myself.

"I never thought much of men, but this one is different," has been said by more than one bride;
and, "I never could suffer infants, but this kid is different to all I've seen," is an expression
often heard from proud young fathers.

"His young lady thinks so at all events," I innocently remarked, and we fell into silence complete.

ELEVEN.

ANDREW DISGRACES HIS "RARIN'."

The silence that fell upon Dawn and myself was unbroken when we went to tea and seemed to have
affected the whole company, or else it was the conversational powers of Andrew, who was absent,
which were wanting to enliven us.

"He ought to be home," said grandma. "He's got no business away, and the place can't be kep'
in a uproar for him when the girls want to go out."

The old lady had determined to take a vigorous interest in politics, and spoke of going to
hear the meetings later on herself.

It presently transpired that Andrew had not been looking to his grandma for all that went into
his "stummick" so religiously as he should have been. Just as he was under discussion he made
a dramatic entry, and fell breathlessly in his grandma's arm-chair near the fireplace. The
usual occupant glared at him in astonishment and demanded "a explanation," which came immediately,
but not from Andrew. Instead there was a loud and imperative knocking at a side door, and when
Carry, after cursing the white ants which had made the door hard to open by throwing it out
of plumb with their ravages, at last got it open, there appeared an irate old man carrying
a stout stick. It was plain that he too had been running,--in short, was in pursuit of Andrew,
who had quite collapsed in the chair.

"I've come, missus, to warn you to keep your boy out of my orange orchard," he gulped. "Six
or seven times I've nearly caught him an' young Bray in it, but to-night I run 'em down, an'
only they escaped me I'd have give 'em the father of a skelpin'. If I ketch them there again
I'll bring 'em before the court an' give 'em three months; but you being a neebur, I'd like
to give you a show of keepin' him out first."

The old dame, à la herself, had been in the act of pouring milk and sprinkling sugar on some
boiled rice which frequently appeared on the menu during Carry's week in the kitchen, previous
to handing it to Miss Flipp, but she waved her hand, thereby indicating that in so dire an
extremity we were to be trusted with the sugar-basin ourselves,--in fact, that any laxity in
this item would have to be let slide for once.

After the manner of finely-strung temperaments with the steel in them, which wear so well,
and to the last remain as sensitive as a youth or maiden, Mrs Martha Clay then rose from her
seat, visibly trembling, but with a flashing battle-light in her eyes.

"What have you got to say to this?" she demanded, turning on her grandson.

"I never touched none of his bloomin' old oranges. It was Jack Bray, it wasn't me."

"Yes," said she; "and if you was listening to Jack Bray it would be you done it all, an' he
who never done nothink. What's the charge, and what damages have you laid on it?" she demanded
of the accuser, fixing him with a fiery glance.

"I ain't goin' to lay any damages this time, I only thought you'd rather me warn you than not;
I know I would with a youngster. I suppose after all he ain't done no more than you an' me
done in our young days, an' my oranges bein' ripe so extra early was a great temptation," familiarly
said the man.

"Well, I don't know what you done in your young days, but I know I never took a pin that didn't
belong to me, none of me children or people neither; and as for Jim Clay, he wouldn't think
of touchin' a thing--he was too much the other way to get on in the world. An' it ain't any
fault of my rarin' that me grandson is hounded down a vagabond," said the old lady in a tragic
manner.

Seeing her fierce agitation, the lad's pursuer was alarmed and sought to pacify her by further
remarking--

"He ain't done nothink out of the way, an' I admit the oranges was a great temptation."

The old lady snorted, and the colour of her face heralded something verging on an apoplectic
seizure.

"Temptation! If people was only honest and decent by keepin' from the things that ain't any
temptation, we'd be all fit for jail or a asylum. Pretty thing, if he's only to leave alone
that which ain't any temptation to him! You could put other people's things before me, I wouldn't
take 'em, not if me tongue was hanging out a yard for 'em. That's the kind of honesty that
I've always practised to me neighbours and rared into any one under me, and that's the only
kind of honesty that is honesty at all," she splendidly finished. "An' I'm very thankful to
you for informin' me. I wish you had caught him an' skelped the hide off of him. It's what
I'll do meself soon as I sift the matter."

The old man bade good-night and departed with his stick.

"He's always sneakin' about the lanes, an' only poked his tongue out at me w'en I wanted to
know where he was," maliciously said Uncle Jake in reference to his grand-nephew.

"Mean old hide, always likes to sit on any one when they're down," whispered Dawn and Carry
to each other. "A pity Andrew hadn't two tongues to stick out at him."

Miss Flipp was too dull to be aroused by even this disturbance. The only time she showed any
feeling was when her "uncle" paid her clandestine visits. Her life seemed to be in a terrible
tangle--more than that, in a syrtis,--but I did not take a hand in further crushing her. She
had been kind to me during my indisposition, and except in extreme cases, "live and let live"
was an axiom I had learned to carefully regard. Knowledge of the slight chance of circumstances
or opportunity--which too frequently is the only difference between a good person and a bad
one, success and failure--reminds one to be very lenient regarding human frailty.

"Now, me young shaver! I'll deal with you," said grandma, turning to Andrew, in whom there
appeared to be left no defence. Never have I seen so old a woman in such a towering rage, and
rarely have I seen one of seventy-five with vigour sufficiently unimpaired to feel so extremely
as she gave evidence of doing.

"This is the first time anythink like this ever happened in my family, and if I thought it
wouldn't be the last I believe I'd kill you where you are."

Andrew emitted no sound, he had given himself up with that calmness one evinces when the worst
is upon them--when there is nothing further beyond.

"Go off to bed as you are without a bit to eat," she continued, plucking at her little collar
as though to get air. "To-morrow I'll see the Brays about this, and I'll skelp the skin off
of you. I'd do it now, only there's no knowing where I'd end, I feel that terrible upset. What
would Jim Clay think now, I wonder? You God-forsaken young vagabond, bringin' disgrace upon
me at this time of me life. I'd be ashamed to walk up town and give me vote as I was lookin'
forward to, and me grandson nearly in jail for stealing. Stealing! It's a nice sounding word
in connection with one of your own that you've rared strict, ain't it? You snuffed up mighty
smart when I asked you your doings, now it comes out why you couldn't account for 'em. 'Might
as well be in a bloomin' glass case as have to carry a pocket-book round an' make a map of
where he's been,' sez he. It appears a map of your doin's wouldn't pass examination by the
police. How would you have been makin' a honest way in the world if I wasn't here to be responsible
for you?"

"Oh, grandma!" said Dawn, seeking to calm her, lest the excitement would be too much. "After
all it mightn't be so bad. Lots of boys take a few paltry oranges out of the gardens and no
one makes such a fuss but that old creature. He just wants to be officious." This was an injudicious
attempt at peace.

"Is that you speakin', Dawn? 'Lots of boys do it.' Perhaps you will also say, 'Lots of girls
come home with a baby in their arms.' Once you get the idea in your head that there's no harm
because lots do it, you're on a express train to the devil. Lots of people do things and some
don't, and that's the only difference between the vagabonds I've never been, and the decent
folk I'd cut me throat if I wasn't among. An' you're the last person I ever would have thought
would have upheld a thief!"

"Well, grandma!" protested Dawn, "I don't uphold him. I'm ashamed to be related to him, but
don't make yourself ill now. Sleep on it, and to-morrow give him rats."

"Remember this," continued grandma, "an' carry the knowledge through life with you, that I
can't make your character for you. Each one has to make their own, but seeing the foundation
you've been give, makes you a disgrace to it. It takes you all your time for years an' years
puttin' in good bricks to make a good character, but you can get rid of it for ever in one
act, don't forget that; an' remember that belongin' to a respectable family won't stop you
from bein' a thief. You are very quick to talk about some of these poor rag-tag about town,
an' I suppose you an' Jack Bray thought you couldn't be the same, but you've found out your
mistake! Go to bed now, and I'll leather you well to-morrer," she concluded encouragingly;
and Andrew lost no time in taking this remand, looking, to use his own expression, as though
he had the "pip."

"Dear me!" sighed the old lady, "them as has rared any boys don't know what it is to die of
idleness an' want of vexation. If it ain't somethink beyond belief, one might be that respectable
theirself they could be put in a glass case, an' yet here would be a young vagabond bringin'
them to shame before the whole district."

"But I don't see that he has done anything very terrible," hazily interposed Miss Flipp.

"Good gracious! If he had been cheekin' some one or playin' a far-fetched joke, I might be
able to forgive him, but there must be reason in everythink, an' to go an' meddle with other's
property is carryin' things too far. 'Heed the spark or you may dread the fire,' is a piece
of wisdom I've always took to heart in rarin' my family, and I notice them as are inclined
to look leniently on evil, no matter how small, never come out the clean potato in the finish,"
trenchantly concluded the old woman; and Miss Flipp was so disconcerted that she immediately
retired to her room, but noticed by no one but me. Probably the poor girl, if gifted with any
capacity for retrospection, wished that she had heeded the spark that she might not now be
in danger of being consumed by the fire.

TWELVE.

SOME SIDE-PLAY.

As Andrew was banished, and grandma determined to retire to ponder upon his sin, she waived
it being Carry's week in the kitchen and consequently her duty to prepare supper coffee, and
suggested that we younger women should all go to the meeting, but Miss Flipp refused on the
score of a headache.

"Poor creature!" observed grandma, "I think she's afraid of a attack of her old complaint,
she looks that terrible bad, and don't take interest in anythink. She wants rousin' out of
herself more. She ain't a girl that will confide anythink to one, but her uncle is comin' up
again to-morrer, an' I think I'll speak to him."

When Carry, Dawn, and I arrived at the Citizens' Hall, Ernest was already waiting to act groom,
while Larry Witcom also accidentally hovered near. He quite as casually took possession of
Carry, so there was nothing for a common individual like myself but to become extremely self-absorbed,
so that my keen observation might not be an interception of any interest likely to circulate
between the knight and the lady. The latter seemed to be in one of her contrary moods, so attached
herself to me like a barnacle, settled me in a seat one from the wall, and peremptorily indicating
to Ernest that he was to take the one against it, put herself carefully away from him on the
outside. A wag would have arranged the party to suit himself, but that was beyond Ernest. He
meekly sat down beside me, with a helplessness possible only to the sturdiest athlete in the
room when in the hands of a fair and wilful maid. I could have come to his rescue, but deemed
it wiser not to thrust him upon Dawn for the present. We had arrived very early, so there was
time for conversation. Encouraged by me, Ernest leant forward and addressed a few remarks to
Dawn, which she received so coolly that he distraitly talked to me instead, and as people began
to gather, above the majority towered the fair head and striking profile of him I had first
seen dealing in pumpkins, and who was colloquially known as "Dora" Eweword. Dawn beckoned him
to the seat beside her, which he took with alacrity, a rollicking laugh and a crimsoning face,
which, in conjunction with a double chin, bespoke the further partnership of a large and well-satisfied
appetite.

"I haven't seen you for an age," said Dawn with unusual graciousness.

"Are you sure you wanted to see me?" he inquired, with an amorous look.

Dawn used her bewitching eyes of blue in a laughing glance.

"You know you only have to give me the wink and you'll see me as often as you want," straightforwardly
confessed "Dora"; but Dawn having encouraged him to a certain distance, had a mind to bring
him no nearer.

"I don't care if I never saw you again," she said bluntly, "but grandma likes yarning with
you, that's why I inquired."

"Dora" looked very red in the face indeed.

"How's Miss Cowper?" mercilessly pursued Dawn, going to the point about which she was curious,
as is characteristic of swains and maids of her degree. "I hope she's well."

"So do I," said Eweword.

"You used to ask after her health about twice a-day. I thought you would be taking her to Lucerne
Farm to relieve your anxiety;" and in response to this "Dora" sealed his fate, as far as my
feeling any compunction whether he singed his wings or not in the light of Dawn's bright candle,
for he said with a touch of bravado--

"Oh, I was only pulling her leg."

To do the man justice he did not seem down to the full unmanliness of this statement; it appeared
more one of those nasty and idle remarks to which all are prone when in a tight corner, and
speaking on the spur of the moment.

"Oh, was that all!" said Dawn mockingly. "It was very nice of you. Are you always so kind and
thoughtful?"

"I'm thinking of clearing out to Sydney in a day or two, I've spent enough time loafing. The
only thing that has kept me here so long is that I wanted to hear how Les. got on in his maiden
speech. We're not much to each other, but when a fellow has no one belonging to him he feels
a claim on the most distant connection," said Ernest on the other side of me. His interest
in Leslie Walker's maiden speech had been developed as suddenly as his opinion that he had
spent enough time in a boat on the river Noonoon.

The connection he mentioned between himself and the candidate about to speak was that old Walker,
whose only son the latter was, had married a widow with one son, by name Ernest Breslaw. Both
these parents were now dead, leaving the step-brothers as their only offspring. The lads had
been reared together, and though of utterly different tastes and callings, a mutual regard
existed between them. Walker had passed his examinations at the bar, and Breslaw had been trained
to electrical engineering, but both being wealthy, neither followed their professions except
in a nominal way. Walker had put in his time in society, motoring, flirting, travelling, dabbling
in the arts, and building a fine town mansion, while Ernest had spent all his time in athletic
training, with the result that Walker had fallen a prize in the marriage arena, while Ernest
was yet in full possession of his bachelorhood.

Any further conversation was out of the question, as the candidate--a smart, clean-shaven man
with clearly cut features--now appeared, and announced himself by removing his new straw "decker,"
and calling out--

"Ladies and gentlemen, before we begin I would like to follow the democratic principle of asking
you to choose a chairman from among yourselves."

"We propose Mr Oscar Lawyer!" called several voices, naming a popular townsman, and this being
seconded, the candidate and the people's chairman, two very gentlemanly-looking men for the
hustings, ascended to the stage side by side.

The chairman took up a position behind a little red table supporting a water-bottle and smudgy
tumbler, while Leslie Walker sat on another chair at the end of it.

Many members of parliament, having risen to their position from coal-heaving or hotel-keeping,
when going on the war-path a second time, take great pains to get themselves up in accordance
with their idea of the dignity of their office. Many old fellows, roaring "Gimme your votes,
I'm the only bloke to save the country and see you git yer rights," dress this modest rôle
in a long-tailed satin-faced frock-coat, a good thing in the trouser line, and a stylish button-hole;
but Leslie Walker, one of the champagne set, had made equally palpable efforts to dress himself
down to his present début.

For sure! his suit, which comprised an alpaca coat with a crumpled tail, must have been the
shabbiest he had, while the glistening new white sailor hat had probably been procured at the
last moment in the vain imagination that, dress as he would, it was not evident at a first
glance that he had had the bread-and-butter problem solved for him by a provident parent before
his birth, and that he had lived what is designated the cultured life, far and autocratically
above sympathy with the vulgar and despised herds, upon whose sweat his class build the pretty
villas fronting the harbour, charge haughtily along the roads in automobiles, and sail the
graceful yachts on the idyllic waters of Port Jackson.

"By Jove! Les. has different ambitions from mine," said Ernest. "I'd rather have to stand up
to a mill with the champion pug. than face what he's on for to-night. Doesn't he look a case
in that get up? Supposing he gets in, what the devil good will it do then, and it takes such
crawling to get into parliament nowadays. There are too many at the game. I could never face
the way one has to flatter some of these old creatures for their vote. I'd rather plug them
under the jaw."

Mr Oscar Lawyer having introduced the speaker, he came forward, and after explaining it was
his first appearance in politics, charmingly proceeded, "I hope I shall not bore you with my
remarks as I endeavour to outline the various planks in the platform of the party to which
I have the honour to belong."

Quite superfluous for him to explain that he was a new chum in politics. Only a fledgling from
a Brussels or Axminster carpeted reception-room would stand on the hustings and publish a fear
that he might be boring his audience. One familiar with the trade of electioneering, as it
has always been conducted by men, would strut and shout and brag, never for a moment worrying
whether or not he came anywhere near the truth or feeling the slightest qualm, though he deafened
his hearers with his trumpeting or bored them to complete extinction, and would refuse to be
silenced even by "eggs of great antiquity."

"Les. ought to stick to society," observed his step-brother; "flipping around a drawing-room
and making all the girls think they were equally in the running was more in his line."

"He's a nice, clean, good-looking young fellow at any rate, and doesn't look as if he gorged
himself--hasn't that red-faced, stuffed look," said Dawn. "If I had a vote I'd give it to him
just for that, as I'm sick of these red-nosed old members of parliament with corporations."

"He's the real lah-de-dah Johnny, isn't he?" laughed "Dora" Eweword.

"Don't you say he's any relation of mine," said Ernest. "It would give me away, and he thinks
I'm in Melbourne. I told every one that's where I was bound. I hope he won't catch sight of me."

There was little fear of this; one has to be accustomed to facing a crowd before they can distinguish
faces.

After the meeting, which dispersed early, Ernest and I hurried out into the galvanised iron-walled
yard, in which those coming from a distance put their horses and vehicles.

Having noted the disconsolate manner in which a pair of dark eyes below a thatch of generous
hue surreptitiously glanced towards a tormentatious maiden with ribbons of blue matching her
eyes and fluttering on her bosom, I thought it time to come to his rescue.

"If you would care to talk to your friend, he can drive you home while I walk with 'Dora';
he says he has something to say to me," said Dawn in an aside.

"Are you sure you want to hear it?" I asked.

"How could I tell until I hear it?"

"That is not a fair answer, Dawn."

"Well, it wasn't a fair question," she pouted.

"Very well, I will not press you more, but you'll tell me of it after, will you not?"

"Well, what would you like me to do?" she asked.

"Oh, I'd like you to be naughty. Mr Dora's complacence inspires me to inveigle him into having
to drive me home while you walk with some one else."

"Very well, anything for fun," she responded with dancing eyes; and as Ernest had the horse
in I got into the sulky and said--

"There is room for three here, Mr Eweword, and we would be glad of you to put the horse out
when we get home."

He took the reins and a seat, and moved aside to make room for the loitering Dawn, but she said--

"No, I'll walk; I must keep Carry company, and she doesn't want to come just yet."

"Drive on," I commanded, and there was nothing for the entrapped "Dora" to do but obey. And Ramon Montaner and says,
that the prayers of many reasons and not able to change his mind.

In this medium had notice that the Infante Don Sancho of Aragon had come with ten galleys King of
Sicily to Metellin and go to the archipelago, and more neighbors Gallipoli. Berenguer de Entenza
and the other captains then sent to Gallipoli came to beg, to take away the homage and oath
of loyalty to the King of Sicily. They urged their danger and Aragon discredit the name if you
do not give aid, subjects who had made such an illustrious and so great. Don Sancho was then his resolution
given the desire of your property and conservation. Medellín left with ten galleys and came
to Gallipoli, where he was received with universal applause, thinking it would help them to take
complete satisfaction of their grievances, serving with some of the few supplies and money they
had, and no clear obligation to obey, all recognized him by his head.

CHAPTER XXXI.

The ambassadors of our army's return to Constantinople by order of the Emperor were prisoners
and cruelly killed Rodesto City.

From our nation sent ambassadors to break the concerts had to Emperor, and made it to challenge, with
much danger came to Constantinople, and since, to the bailiff of Venice, and the power of Genoa
and of the Consuls of Anconitanos and Pisani, magistrates and heads of these nations had treatment and
communication in the Provinces Empire, gave the following apparent. Who knowing that by order of
Emperor Anthrone, and their son Michael in Adrianople, and in other places of the empire, they
had slaughtered all the Aragonese and Catalans were found in them, both soldiers and merchants,
they live under your protection and protection for which the Catalans and Aragonese satisfacion Gallipoli
were determined to die, and who believed in both his faith and word, they wanted break before
the war, consisting, as speaking on behalf of all his nation was Apart from the concerts and
made alliances with the Emperor, and thus, the public instruments from then on were invalid
and of no value, and challenged him a traitor, and offered to defend the field, a hundred
to one hundred, or ten to ten, and waiting on God their swords would be the instrument to
punish his justice case as ugly as most of them violating the public faith, killing foreigners who
sought peaceful and careless in their land had been cruel and disgraceful death, whom they had
delivered it, defended their provinces, killed their enemies, and enlarged his empire. The insolence
of the soldiers was not enough reason to run against them as inhuman resolution. Castigáranse
As the soldiers blame their crimes, even though its services will serve to moderate worthwhile.
Diéranles ships, and to return to his country, that punishment was enough to send without
reward, but no sex or age pardon by taking even innocent and guilty, ill and good, had been
very cruel. Given the manifest, the Venice Bailio others gave reason to the Emperor of the Embassy,
​​and wanting to try some agreement could not be Finally, being so offended the spirits, and any
word and faith as doubtful, and thus had resentatives for parts suitable for a war declared safe a
bad peace, that where lack of faith, the name of peace is more concerning pretext and betrayals.
Replied the Emperor, that what happened against the Catalans and Aragonese had not been made
by his order, and thus, was not giving satisfaction, it remains true that shortly before he ordered
the killing of Fernando Aones the Admiral, and all the Catalans and Aragonese, who were found in Constantinople,
which had come with four galleys accompanying Caesar's wife Mary, his mother and brothers,
even Montaner Tighten the fact, he says that the very day they executed the killings. Asked the Ambassadors
give them security for his return to Gallipoli; fuel then granted them a commissioner to deal
is left to Rodesto, thirty miles away from Constantinople, and order of the commissioner who
accompanied them were imprisoned up to twenty and seven servants and sailors, and the butcher
outlets instead made them public living rooms. This evil I think you can excuse all the atrocities
that were made in his satisfaction, because neither could get to be greater than with such
fierce demonstration violating the universal right of the people, defended by human and divine
laws, by inviolable custom of nations and barbaric policy. This unfortunate finally had the
finesse of a little noticed Capitan. Worthy of praise is when there is security in the faith and
word of the Prince enemy, but when is doubtful, I have to venture through ignorance. Our King
Emperor Charles V. passed through Paris and put in the hands of its biggest rival, his confidence
was so praised as the faith of Francis but if the Queen Leonor does not inform his brother Charles
of what is talked outside confidence judged by recklessness and faith by deception, which clearly shows
that praise, or blame by events, not reason. Berenguer de Entenza was notable mistake in sending
ambassadors Prince to whose faith and word could doubt, because he so perfidy and cruelty
took the life of Roger and his men, to believe is that everything else does not keep faith, or
to give Ambassadors however legitimate those who came from those he had as traitors, to more
that having on the residents of Gallipoli executed as great cruelty, had feared another increased
whenever the opportunity offered it.

CHAPTER XXXII.

Envianse ambassadors to Sicily, and leaves with his army Berenguer wins and Recrea City Calo ground
due to John son of Andronico.

After it was learned at Gallipoli the death of their ambassadors, which can not be expensive
words what changed the minds and hearts turned to vengeance, be so inhumanly abuse of which should
be protected and defended. Charge every day on Gallipoli people refresh, and squeezed the
inside, but with the supplies to prevent them not to enter land, with weapons. Berenguer de
Entenza, and all Captains, with resolution they had taken not leave Greece without being avenged,
prevented relief, and so we thought that would make their own weapons to King Frederic, and to
swear allegiance to forcing more to his defense. This was the main reason, though the King
with more reasons consideration, and persuaded him most useful. He received the oath of allegiance
on behalf Don King Fadrique a gentleman of the house, called Garcilopez of Lobera, soldier that
followed the banners of Berenguer, and together he was elected by its Ambassador to the king
Ramon Marquet, city of Barcelona, ​​Ramon Marquet illustrious son of sea captain, to what I presume,
of the great King Don Pedro, and Ramon de Copons, to be a witness of the oath loyalty they had
paid into the hands of Garcilopez of Lobera, and give him long-term relationship state in which
they were, that if his memory had its services, will remember them Please, since they not only interested
in them, but their increase and greatness, to warn the door that opened them to occupy the Eastern
Empire, and to summon up his revenge and despair, because they were already risky. They cut the three
ambassadors to Sicily, that people left with some hope that Don Frederic socorrería them for
always, although very thin, animate and encourage much needed. The Infante Don Sancho to the
departure of these messengers offered not only to follow and accompany them on the day Berenguer I
had prepared, but help them with their ten galleys until they knew the mind and will del Rey.
Entenza on behalf of all accepted the offer, and thanked the Prince for having taken as honest resolution,
worthy of a son of the house of Aragon. With this hurried Berenguer departure, and sailed the
people, but while he wanted out, he changed his mind Don Sancho, Forgot a word which shortly
before had given, and miss the same honor, and reputation; causing all kinds of novelty, see
in such a short distance take as many found resolutions, without being able to offer for the
shortness of time, new accidents, you might require. And if there could be of such quality
that they require to break words given to both the foundation and reason, you can not find out,
what the ancients did not leave written because he could move the infant to take decision
as to discredit him, but therefore said unto Berenguer when asked to fulfill his word, which was only
say, so met his brother's service, one can assume that warned the Prince, who had Andronico and
peace between Don Frederic, and without expressing his order had not occupy their galleys injury
of a friend Prince. This it seems to me that would not apologize to Infante stay, when he had
not offered, but pledged his word, and seeing the best abuse vassals and subjects of the King, his
brother was larger decrease ignorance and failure to assist and help them, because they Andronico,
slaying the Catalans and Aragonese, who were in his empire, broke the peace first.

Berenguer with regret that due, as he refers in his relationship that sent Rey Don Jaime II. de
Aragon, said as he departed, when their pleas and reasons could not stop, that the Prince was as
he pleased and not as a son of his father. Not lose our own soul with the departure of Don Sancho,
or be homeless as hard they did change his mind. Berenguer de Entenza embarked in five galleries,
two sticks, rowing boats and sixteen, eight hundred infants, fifty horses, and left Gallipoli around
the island of Marmora call Propontis old. Came to her, threw his people on the ground, and sacked
most of their villages, slaughtering its inhabitants, sparing neither age nor sex, destroying
and burning the could be of some benefit and convenience, because as the company was the first
executed after so many grievances, but was given to vengeance than greed. With the same alacrity
and rigor Berenguer became the coasts of Thrace, and continuing the good events after ships
of some dams, rushed to recess, large and wealthy city, and with little loss of his men forcibly
entered it. Ejecutóse the vanquished the rigor used to, and collected ships and galleys to
the most lucid and rich prey, delivered to the violence of fire buildings, because so insensitive
and dumb things they wanted to be witnesses and memory of revenge. Andronico took notice of
the loss of recess, in time to judge the few Catalans fled around Sicily, and to address the damage
to the entire Berenguer that shore of the sea, which the Greeks called Natura, ordered his son
Calo John Despot, with four hundred horsemen, and infantry that could collect was opposed to
Berenguer and the fact is preventing you from people on the ground. Lillie Bridge beside Calo
knew that Juan Berenguer permission, and the number and quality of their forces, and although
the former is judged by much lower in the second he thought he was ahead of his enemy, and
so resolved in fact its people land, and get to Calo John, who warned tambiem by their brokers,
as their Berenguer people had set foot on land, hasten the road, fearing that not to withdraw
because No one could believe that rich and full of debris of our venture but would like labor.
They came with one mind to envestida squads, and was soon showed clearly that the value is what
gives the victories, not the crowd, because our winners were still few, and the Greeks broken
and their throats cut, are many. John Calo escaped with his life, and arrived at Constantinople
destroyed. Andronico did take up arms to people, because everyone was on Gallipoli war, and
feared that Berenguer not undertaken the City. This rotation was given the last day of May 1304.
They were so quick these victories, and achieved in so many parts, and as to time, the Greeks
judged by increased our forces, and was not Berenguer one to harm them, but many.

CHAPTER XXXIII.

Prison Berenguer de Entenza with considerable loss of their own.

With so happy beginning and had our arms against the Greeks ruled by Berenguer of Entenza, seemed
to pass on, and rely on luck and favorable weather, with a view and finish off a victory the
beginning of another. Resolved to undertake our ships that were encountered in the ports and shores
of Constantinople, and burn their shipyards, companies most difficult name. Sailed to implement
its determination on the beach between PACTI and Gano out with good weather, but at dawn,
revealing the candles Gallipoli, scoured views on what should be done, looking to cut back
to Gallipoli, and all got into conformity land, and put it as close to the bows they could, the
sterns of the sea, because those were not adorned the prows of artillery, the best defense was the
top of the sterns. Took up arms, and either waited Misses what eighteen galleys try, who came
to take over ours. These ten and eight were of Genoese galleys, which ordinarily navigated
those waters, because their value or greed led them to the most remote of the country, as the Catalans
of the time. Recognized both sides, the Genoese were the first to greet them with that our
men laid down their arms, and as friends and allies were reported and discussed. Warned then
the Genoese by what they heard talk of the events, which had been Berenguer much profit that they
would, and taste that would give the Emperor Andronicus and the Greeks, if seized Berenguer,
and I tomasen their galleys. And judging by minor inconvenience break his faith and word, to stop
the hands is so important and rich prey, sent to invited to Berenguer de Entenza, giving word
from the Lordship would do them no wrong, nor any outrage, which came to honor her Captain,
which deal with some important business them all. This Berenguer without warning in the past,
and damage their trust him had set, he went to the Captain, where Eduardo de Oria with many other
knights received him and cherished. Ate and dined together with great pleasure and friendship,
as it was Berenguer to sleep with the Captain, continuing until late some talks on account of its
conservation. In the morning when he wanted to return to his gallery, Eduardo de Oria him prisoner
and disarmed, and other Genovese did the same with the others who accompanied him and took eighteen
galleys on our unnoticed and neglected.
 "If I was a great old podge and had a blue nose from
swilling and gorging, and was fifty if I was a day, and then went goggling after a young fellow
of eighteen, he wouldn't be very civil to me, or be lectured if he spoke to me the way I deserved,
and I think these old creatures of men ought to be discouraged by all the girls. What's sauce
for the goose is the same for the gander."

Mr Pornsch had not long departed when Mrs Bray favoured us with a call, so grandma was spared
a pilgrimage to her house. She and Carry exchanged a stiffly formal greeting, but the visitor
beamed upon the remainder of us and seated herself in our midst.

"Oh, I say, ain't it a blessed nark to the men us going to have a vote? He! he! Ha! ha! It
fairly maddens 'em to see us getting a bit of freedom--makes 'em that wild they don't know
how to be sneerin' an' nasty enough. Every one of us will just roll up an' use our power now
we've got it,--they've kep' our necks under their heel long enough."

"I wasn't thinkin' of the vote at present," said Grandma Clay. "I was just off to see you about
what our noble nibbs have been doin' in that old Gawling's orchard; but I beat Andrew already
in case. What did you think of 'em?"

Mrs Bray put back her handsome head, decorated by an extremely fashionable hat, and laughed
boisterously.

"Fancy the old toad runnin' 'em down,--gave 'em a bit of a scare, didn't it? Old mongrel, to
kick up a fuss over a few paltry oranges! As if we don't all know what boys is; why, there'd
be no chance of rarin' them without touchin' nothing, unless you carted them off to the back-blocks
where there wasn't no one within reach. I told him what I thought of him. 'How dare you!' says
I. 'Bring witnesses of this,' said I."

Grandma Clay arose.

"Well, if that's your idea of rarin' a family, it ain't mine. Why, can't you hear the parson's
everlastin' preaching and giving examples how taking a pin has been the start of a feller coming
to the gallows; and this is a much worse beginning than a pin! If the only way of rarin' them
not to steal was to put 'em where there was no possibility of stealing nothink, a pretty sort
of honesty that would be; you might as well say the only way to rare a girl modest was to let
her never have a chance of being nothink else. Some people, of course, has different views,
but I believe in holding to mine; they've brought me up to this time very well."

"Oh, you are terrible strict; you wouldn't have no peace of your life rarin' boys if you cut
things so fine as that. Now w'en women gets the rule it might become the fashion for men to
be more proper. Look here, the men are that mad--"

Uncle Jake here interrupted her by appearing for four o'clock tea.

"Well, Mr Sorrel, now the women has come to show you how to do things, there might be something
done in the country."

"Nice fools they'll make of themselves," he sneeringly replied.

"They couldn't make no greater fools of themselves than the men has always done,--lying in
the gutter an' breakin' their faces," said Mrs Bray.

"Wait till the women go at it, they'll fight like cats," continued Uncle Jake, whose power
to annoy depended not so much upon what he said as his way of saying it.

Dawn chipped into the rescue at this point.

"I'm dead sick of that yarn about women fighting. It's a mean lie. They never fight half as
much as men; and girls always love each other more, and are more friendly together than men.
The only women who fight with their own sex and call them cats are a few nasty things who are
trying to please men by helping them to keep women down and make little of them; and the fools!
that sort of meanness never pleases any men, only those that are not worth pleasing."

"Well, now that women has the vote they ought to plough, an' drive the trains, and let the
men sit down inside," continued Jake. But Mrs Bray descended upon him.

"Yes; an' the men ought to come inside an' sweep, an' sew, and have their health ruined for
a man's selfishness, an' be tied to a baby and four or five toddlers from six in the mornin'
till ten at night, day in and day out, like the women do. What do you think, Mr Eweword?" she
inquired of this individual, who had joined the company and awaited the conclusion of her remarks
ere he greeted us.

"I think the women ought to vote if they want to. There's nothing to stop 'em voting and doing
their housework as well; and the Lord knows it doesn't matter who they vote for, as all the
members are only a pack of 'skytes,' after a good billet for themselves. Think I'll have a
go for it to see if it would pay better than farmin'," he said, with his mouth extended in
a laugh that redeemed the weakness of this feature by exhibiting the beauty of a perfect set
of teeth.

"What about women havin' to keep theirselves in subjection?" persisted Uncle Jake. This subject
apparently lay near his heart.

"I always think that means for them to take care of themselves, and not bust over the hard
dragging work that men were meant for," said Mrs Bray; "for I've always noticed that any man
who puts his wife to man's work never comes to no good in the finish. If a man can't float
his own boat, and thinks a woman can keep his and her own end up at the same time, she might
as well fold her hands from the start, as the little she can do will never keep things goin'
and only pave the way for doctors' bills."

"You might try to argue it, but if you believe the Bible you can see there in every page that
women ain't meant only to be under men," said the gallant Jake.

"It ain't a case of not believin' the Bible, it's only that we ain't fools enough to believe
all the ways people twists it to suit theirselves; men as talks that way is always the sort
would be in a benevolent asylum only for some woman keepin' 'em from it," said grandma, coming
to the rescue. "Cowards always drag in the Bible to back theirselves up far more than proper
people does; and there's always one thing as strikes me in the Bible, an' that is w'en God
was going to send His son down in human form. He considered a woman fit to be His mother, but
there wasn't a man livin' fit to be His father. I reckon that's a slap in the face from the
Almighty hisself that ought to make men more carefuller when they try to make little of women."

Even Uncle Jake collapsed before this, and Mrs Bray ceased contention and veered her talk to
gossip.

"Young Walker has been chose by the Opposition League in Noonoon, an' we're goin' to form a
committee at once and work for him. Ada Grosvenor is goin' to form a society for educating
women how to vote."

"Ada Grosvenor!" exclaimed grandma. "I thought she would be too much a upholder of the men
to be the start of anythink like that."

"I don't see how educating one's self how to vote would be making them a putter down of the
men," said Dawn.

"Well, it's much the same thing," said Mrs Bray. "For if a woman educates herself on anything
it will show her that a lot of the men want puttin' down--a long way down too. You'll see the
men will think it's against 'em, and try to squash her and her society, for they're always
frightened if you begin to learn the least thing you will find out how you're bein' imposed
upon; but they don't care how much you learn in the direction of wearin' yourself out an' slavin'
to save money for them to spend on themselves."

"Oh, come now," laughed "Dora"; "we're not all so bad as that!"

"Not at your time of life w'en you're after the girls and pretendin' you're angels to catch
'em; it's after you've got 'em in your power that things change," said Mrs Bray.

The company was now further enlarged by the arrival of Ernest, soon followed by a young lady
I had not previously met--a tall brown-eyed girl, with pleasant determination in every line
of her well-cut face, and who proved to be the young lady under discussion--Miss Ada Grosvenor,
daughter of the owner of the farm adjoining Bray's and Clay's.

Her errand was to invite Dawn to join the society she was promoting.

She explained it was not for the support of a party, but for the exchange and search of knowledge
that should direct electresses to exercise their long-withheld right in a worthy manner. I
listened with pleasure to the thoughtful and earnest ideals to be discerned underlying the
girl's practically expressed ideas, and delighted in the humorous intelligence flashing from
her clear eyes, and was altogether favourably impressed with her as a type of womanhood--one
of the best extant.

She conversed with the elder members of the party and Ernest, and this left "Dora" Eweword
in charge of Carry and Dawn. His giggle was much in evidence. Between blasts of it he could
be heard inviting the girls to a pull on the river, and they presently set off round the corner
of Miss Flipp's bedroom leading to the flights of wooden steps down to the boats under the
naked willows. The nature of the one swift glance that travelled after them from Ernest's eyes
did not escape my observation, so I suggested that he, Miss Grosvenor, and myself should follow
a good example, and we did. I knew it would be a relief to him to overtake Eweword, pull past
him with ease, and leave him a speck in the distance, as he did. I felt a satisfaction in noting
Dawn watch his splendid strokes, and Miss Grosvenor's animated conversation with him and enthusiastically
expressed admiration of his rowing. She was not so exacting in the matter of detail as Dawn,
and red hair did not prevent her from enjoying the company of a splendid specimen of the opposite
sex when she had the rare good fortune of encountering him.

"That's a fine stamp of a girl," he cordially remarked as, having at her request pulled the
boat to the edge of the stream, she landed and sprang up the bank for ferns; but not by any
inveiglement could I induce him to give an opinion of Dawn, which was propitious of her being
his real lady. When we pulled down stream again between the fertile farm-lands spread with
occasional orange and lemon groves, beautiful with their great crops of yellowing fruit, we
found that the other party were already deserting their craft.

"We had to give it best. Mr Eweword soon got winded. I never saw any one pull a boat so splendidly
as you do, Mr Ernest," called the outspoken Carry, who had not acquired the art of paying a
compliment to one member of a party without running amok of the feelings of another. Eweword,
despite his shapely and imposing bulk, had not developed his athletic possibilities so much
as those of the gourmand, and, reddening to the roots of his stubbed hair, he looked the reverse
of pleased with the tactless young woman,--an expression usually to be found on the countenance
of one or more members of a company following the publication of her opinions.

Miss Grosvenor and Ernest continued to chat with such apparent enjoyment that Dawn said pointedly--

"Pooh! there's no art in pulling a boat; any galoot with a little brute force can do that,"--a
remark having the desired effect, for the young Breslaw feigned not to hear, his face rivalled
the colour of "Dora's," and his remarks grew absent.

"Oh, I don't know," persisted Carry, "I know plenty of galoots,--they're the only sort of men
there are in the Noonoon district, and they can't row for sour apples."

Dawn singled out "Dora" Eweword, and went up the bank with him, leaving the remainder of us
together. Miss Grosvenor favoured us with a cordial invitation to partake of the hospitality
of her home during the following evening; and delighted with the intelligence and go of the
girl, I was pleased to accept. Ernest said he would be delighted to escort me, but Carry said
she had her work to do, and had no time to run about to people's places. Miss Grosvenor received
this with a merry twinkle in her eye, and said to me--

"Well, Dawn will come to show you the way. It is an uncomfortable path if you don't know it;"
and with this she bade good afternoon and ran around the orchard among the square weed and
wild quince, across an area abounding in lines of barbed-wire.

Ernest too departed in a triangular direction leading to the curious old bridge spanning the
stream.

"What makes him hang about here so long?" asked Carry. "Has he a girl in the district? Do you
think he seems gone on Dawn?"

"Perhaps it's Carry?"

"No such luck. I wish he were. I suppose he has money. They say over where he boards he has
a set of rooms to himself, and is very liberal. What would he be doing up here so long?"

"He doesn't publish his business. Perhaps he's staying in this nice quiet nook to write a book
or something," I said idly, by way of accounting for his idleness, or the curious might have
set to work to discover more of his doings than he wished to get abroad just then.

"He doesn't look much like the fools that write books, but every one is writing one these days.
I know of five or six about Noonoon even; it seems to be a craze."

"Perhaps a cycle!"

"I often wonder who is going to read 'em all and do the work."

This brought us to Clay's, Carry supporting me on her arm, and thus ended her discourse.

Dora stayed for tea, but it was a dull meal, as Dawn now appeared desirous of repelling him.

Andrew, who on account of his drubbing had been very subdued during dinner, had regained his
usual form, and when Uncle Jake, to whom the freeing of women seemed an unabating irritation,
remarked--

"Who's this young Walker? All the women will be mad for him because he's good-looking and got
a soft tongue. They ought to stick to the present member who is known, this other fellow hasn't
been heard of;" his grand-nephew replied--

"Like Uncle Jake; he's been in the municipal council fifteen years and never got heard of;
he ought to put up an' see would the women go for him, because he's never been heard of an'
is a bit good-lookin'."

"Well, there's one thing to his credit, an' that is, he's lived over sixty years an' never
been heard of stealing fruit out of people's gardens, an' as for looks--'Han'some is who han'some
does,'" said grandma, which effected the collapse of Andrew. In the Clay household there were
ever current reminders of the truth of the old proverb, warning people in glass-houses to abstain
from stone-throwing.

Dawn did not appear before me that night until I opened my door and called--

"Lady Fair, the kimono awaits thy perfumed presence!"

"I don't want to come to-night; I feel as scotty as a bear with a sore head."

"But I want you--youth must ever give way to grey hairs."

With that she appeared, and throwing herself backward on my bed, thrust her arms crossly above
her head amid a tumble of soft bright hair.

"Youth, health, beauty, and lovers not lacking, what excuse have you for being out of tune?
I want you to pilot me to tea at Grosvenor's to-morrow evening. Miss Grosvenor has invited
you, Ernest, and myself."

"She just wants Ernest--she's terribly fond of the men."

"Well, did you ever see a normal girl who wasn't, and Mr Ernest is a man worth being fond of--I
dearly love him myself."

"Pooh! I don't see anything nice about him," said Dawn aggressively.

"But you'll come to tea, won't you?"

"No, I can't. I never go to Grosvenors. Grandma doesn't care for them. She says he was only
a pig buyer, and settled down there about the time she came here, and now they try to ape the
swells and put on airs. They only come here to try to get on terms with some of the swell men.
I wouldn't take him over there to please her if I were you."

"That's where you and I differ. I would just like to please them, and I'm sure it will do Ernest
good to be in the company of such a pleasant and sensible girl as Ada Grosvenor."

"Yes, he'd want something to do him good, if I'm any judge."

Dawn's pretty mouth and chin were so querulous that I had to turn away to smile.

"So you won't come to tea?"

"I can't; I'd like to please you," she said somewhat softening, "but I've promised 'Dora' Eweword
I'll go out rowing with him again to-morrow. He says he has something to say to me."

"He's been going to say this something a long time."

"Yes, but I stave him off. I know what it is right enough, and I don't want to hear it; but
I suppose I had better please grandma."

"So you like him?"

"No, I detest him, and feel like smacking him on the mouth just where his underlip sticks out
farther than the top one, every time he speaks; but what am I to do? I'd never be let go on
the stage, and I might as well marry him as any one."

"Why marry any one? At nineteen, or ninety for that matter, there is no imperative hurry. To
marry a man you dislike because you cannot attain your ambition is surely very silly indeed.
Would you not love 'Dora' if you could go on the stage?"

"I wouldn't be seen in a forty-acred paddock with him. I'd like some man who had travelled,
not an old Australian thing just living about here. I'd like an Englishman who'd take me home
to England."

"You mustn't disparage your countrymen while I'm listening, as you'll find no better in any
country or clime. Always remember they were among the first to enfranchise their women, and
thus raise them above the status of chatteldom and merchandise."

"They only gave us the vote because they had to. Women have had to crawl to them for it, and
pretend it was a great privilege the sweet darling almighties were allowing us, when all the
time it has been our right, and they were selfish cowards who deserve no thanks for withholding
it so long. And they gave it that grudgingly and are that narked about it, it makes me sick."

"Of course, when the matter is stripped to bare facts, the truth of your remarks is irrefutable,
but we must gauge things comparatively, and remember how many other nations won't even grudgingly
free their women. If you don't like Eweword I can't see any pressing necessity to think of
marriage at all."

"Oh, well, I'd have it done then and wouldn't be everlasting plagued on the subject," she said
with the unreasonableness of irritability.

"Would it not be better though to wait a little while in hopes of a better choice?"

"But I suppose it will always be the same. Any man at all worth consideration is sure to be
married or at any rate is engaged."

Here was the clue to her irritation. It was that imaginary young lady of Ernest Breslaw's.
Had she been a man, ere this she would have plunged into vigorous attempt to dislodge that
or any other rival, no matter how assured his position, but being a woman and compelled to
await "The idiot Chance her imperial Fate," the effect of such suppression on so robust and
strenuous a nature was this form of hysteria.

"Well, what about a struggle for the desire of your heart? Undoubtedly you have, if well trained,
sufficient voice to be a great asset on the stage, but it would take at the very least two
years' hard work under a good master before it would be in the least fit for public use."

"I'd be twenty-one then."

"You are just at a good age to stand vigorous training."

"But what's the use of talking," she said hopelessly, "you don't know how mad grandma is against
the stage. She says she'd rather see me in my grave, and I feel I'd never prosper if I went
against her."

"Very likely her point of view is founded on hard facts, but training your voice isn't going
on the stage, and in two years, if you are able to sing decently, perhaps no one will be so
anxious as your grandma that you should be heard,--I've heard of such a case before;" and I
didn't add that two years was a long way ahead for an old woman of seventy-six, and also for
a girl to whom study was not quite a fetich, and ample time for the or some knight to have
come to the rescue. These thoughts were not for publication, as they might have made me appear
a traitor to the prejudices of one party and the desire of the other, whereas I was loyal to
them both.

"It would be lovely if you could get on the soft side of grandma, but I'm afraid it's impossible.
Fancy being able to sing and please people, and travel about in nice cities away from dusty,
dreary, slow old Noonoon," said the girl, the crossness melting from her pretty face and giving
place to radiance.

She toyed with some silk scarves of mine, and between whiles said--

"Isn't it funny some people think one thing good and others don't. No one around here wants
to be on the stage but me, or seems to understand that actresses are made out of ordinary people
like you and me. 'Dora' doesn't know anything about the stage, but Mr Ernest does. He doesn't
think them terrible women, and says that his best woman friend was an actress once. If you
thought grandma could be brought round at all I wouldn't go out with Dora to-morrow, I'd go
with you to get out of it. Mr Ernest seemed to be very pleased with Ada Grosvenor; is she the
same style as his young lady?"

This question wasn't asked because Dawn was transparent, but because I had led her to believe
I was dense.

"No, not at all," I replied.

"What is she like?"

"She's about five feet five, and has a plump, dimpling figure. Her hair is bright brown, and
her nose is an exquisitely cut little straight one. (Here I observed Dawn casting surreptitious
glances in the mirror opposite.) Her eyes are bright blue with long dark lashes, and she has
a mouth too pretty to describe, fitted up with a set of the loveliest natural teeth one could
see in these days of the dentist; it is so perfect that it seems unnatural and a sad pity that
it should sometimes be the outlet of censorious remarks about less beautiful sisters, but its
owner is very young and not surrounded by the best of influences at present, and no doubt will
have better sense as she grows older."

"What's her name?"

"Now you want to know too much, but I never knew another girl with such a beautiful one."

"She must be a beauty altogether," said Dawn rather satirically.

"She would be if she would only guard against being cross at times, but you must not breathe
this to a soul as I'm only going on supposition. Young Ernest isn't engaged to her, but I've
seen him with her once or twice, and he looked so pleased that I suspected him of kind regards,
as no man could help admiring her."

"Is that all?" she said in a tone of relief; "he mightn't care for her at all. Just walking
about with her and looking happy isn't any criterion. Men are always doing that with every girl."

"Dora didn't look happy with me to-night then--how do you account for that?"

She accounted for it with a merry laugh, as curled in the silk kimono she remained in possession
of my nightly couch.

I was espousing this girl's cause because I could not bear to see her honest, wholesome youth
and beauty making fuel for disappointment and bitterness as mine had done. There had been no
one to help me attain the desire--the innocent, just, and normal desire of my girlhood's heart,--no
one to lend a hand, till my heart had broken with slavery and disappointment, and at less than
thirty-five all that remained for me was a little barren waiting for its feeble fluctuating
pumping to cease.

The girl presently fell asleep, so I covered her, kimono and all, and extinguishing the light,
lay down beside what had once been a tiny baby, whose feeble life opening with the day had
been nurtured on the milk of old Ladybird, the spotted cow with a dew-lap and a crumpled horn.
She was now, I trusted, enjoying the reward of her earthly labours in that best of heavens
we love to picture for the dear animals that have served us well, and but for whose presence
the world would be dreary indeed, while the sleep of her beautiful foster-daughter had advanced
to hold dreams of jewelled gowns, thrilling solos, travel, and splendid young husbands who
could do no wrong, but she knew no room for thought of "Dora," who on the morrow was to row
her on the Noonoon. He might as well have relinquished the chase, for his chances here had
grown as faint as those of pretty Dora Cowper--whose leg he classically stated he had pulled--had
grown with him.

Ah, well, there is a law of retribution in all things, direct or indirect, visible or invisible.

I lay awake a long time contemplating the best way of approaching Grandma Clay in regard to
Dawn's singing lessons. One by one the passenger trains streamed into Noonoon, halted a panting
five minutes at the station, then rumbled over the strange old iron-walled bridge, slowed down
again to the little siding of Kangaroo on the other side, from whence up, up, the mountain-sides
above the fertile valley, leaving the peaceful agriculturists soundly asleep after their toil.
The heavy "goods" lumbered by unceasingly, the throbbing of their great engines, their signalling,
shunting, and tooting proving a perennial delight to me, comforting me with the knowledge that
I still could feel a pulsation from the great population centres where my fellows congregate.

It had lulled me to doziness, when I was aroused by the electric alarm bell, the purpose of
which was to warn folk when a train neared the bridge. A very necessary device, as there was
but one bridge for all traffic, it being cut into two departments by three high iron walls
that shut out an exquisite view of the river, and confined and intensified the rumble of trains
in a manner well calculated to inspire the least imaginative of horses with the fear that the
powers of evil had broken loose about them. The alarm-bell was humanly contrary in the discharge
of its duty, and rang long and loudly when there was no train, and was not to be heard at all
when they were rushing by in numbers. On this occasion, there being no train to drown its blatant
voice, it so disturbed me that I was keenly alive to a dialogue that was proceeding in Miss
Flipp's room.

"You must go away, I tell you," said Mr Pornsch. "A nice thing it would be if a man in my position
were implicated."

"I didn't think a man of your class would be so cruel," sobbed the girl.

In rejoinder the man admitted one of the truths by which our civilisation is besmirched.

"There's only one class of men in dealing with women like you."

Then fell a silence, during which Dawn turned in her sleep, and I placed her head more comfortably
lest she should awake and hear what was proceeding.

Not that it would in any way have sullied her, for her virtue, by sound heredity and hardy
training, was no hothouse plant, liable to shrivel and die if not kept in a certain temperature,
but was a sturdy tree, like the tall white-trunked young gums of her native forests, on which
the winds of knowledge could blow and the rains of experience fall without in any way mutilating
or impairing its reliability and beauty. Proposed
one of the two Ambassadors, the oldest in years, its embassy, ​​which the Catalans and Aragonese
after making peace between King Charles of Naples, King of Sicily, Don Frederic, to whom They served,
determined not to seek rest at home, but increase with new facts military glory and fame gained
in past wars, they had enough forces for this in number and value, soldiers exercised by a long and
dangerous war, known Captains for their victories and nobility of blood in the name of all offered
him their assistance against Turks with folded taste and liking, and take their weapons in favor
of the house of Palaeologus, Unique Friends of Aragon, when their parts were too falls and expand
his empire destroying enemies along the name of Christian, who so boldly and proudly I wanted
to establish in the provinces usurped the Greek Empire.

Emperors were thrilled with the unexpected offer of the embassy and Catalan, to seem as important to
its interests, because they understood that those same, which I came to offer, were the ones
with so much horror and fear in all of Italy won and sustained the Kingdom of Sicily. Magnificent
words thanked the ease with which the whole nation offered serve, and the same are received. He wanted
talks then the conditions that had a soldier, and so the ambassadors asked the salary according
to their instructions for people war, and Roger to give him the title of Grand Duke, and wife
one of his granddaughters, because I wanted to secure more such items in their service. Andronico
without altering or moving thing they asked, the given, regardless of the quality and condition
of unequal Roger to her granddaughter, but all this inequality could match the reputation of the
people, who like General ruled, and being so oppressed the Greek arms of the Turks, and unsafe
the fidelity of their own.

Blind and lived in a village banished Bithynia Juan Lascar, legitimate successor of the Empire,
and but useless to occupy it, living it, was the possession of Andronico tyrannical, and it
causes justified to take up arms the present government malcontents, and so full of fear and suspicion,
he was obliged to have recourse to foreign nations for war and defense of his person. Service received
ten thousand Massegatas, whom the vulgar call Alans, barbaric people customs, Christian in
faith rather than in the works. Had her dwelling on the other side of Danube, and recognized
by the Lord to Scite Europe. Emperor his first EMBI Embassy offering to serve. Author Gregoras
Nicephore Greek of the time referred to as Andronico's considered much in so many words: Fuel
as pleasing to the Emperor as if from heaven. Greeks said that all suspects and we were enemies,
and thus continuously sought ties with friends and strangers, that I hope never to do it. Also received
his army Turcopoles many companies that left Azan Sultan, and were baptized. All Andronico wanted
them aid, and estimated as large, and thus that our offered him words can not be more expensive
than the estimate made it, being of people as advantageous to the others that served him,
and feared at the time. Andronico sent the two Ambassadors to Roger arranging the marriage, and
brought him the insignia of Grand Duke, which is the same between us General of the sea: great
dignity of the empire, but not the majors.

CHAPTER VI.

Points paid the Emperor to the people of war, and makes many honors
and favors to his captains.

Andronico said the pay according to the difference of the arms and occupation, four ounces of silver
each month to the men at arms, their horses Thin two, and so the pilots and people of mandoneros
an ounce, and provided that they reach the coast of a province of the Empire they were given
four pay, and when they wanted to return to their homes together, or split, you fought two
for the trip. Author George Pachymeres Greek, fragments illustrate much this relationship,
although big enemy of the Catalans, says that the Catalans' pay bending were higher than those
of the Turkish Greeks and Massagetas: that clearly shows The estimate was made of the Catalan and
Aragonese militia, as with so excessive differential the advantage over all who served in the
Empire. Of pay, entertainment and benefits offered to the nobility and captains do not indicate
the Historians thing with particularity, only the office and dignity of Grand Duke Roger, and
the Steward in Corbera de Alet. Where I suspect that his taste was limiting their pay and salary,
because seconds later we shall see, Generals will ask his money,
just pointing out the amount, but for this had to account to the accountants
and finance ministers of Andronico.

The ambassadors returned to Sicily, and found Roger in Licata where he awaited his return, and
know the proper office that wore then went to see the King, to give reason of the honorable Andronico
hospitality that made its embassies and how long walked to offer grants. Publicóse the day, and
the captains gathered his people at Messina, where the army was ready, that in a few days
was in order to sail. It was the army of thirty-six candles, and between they had eighteen galleys,
four heavy ships, most armed with money King, and Roger, for the execution of the day spent the ranch
he bought in past wars, and took twenty thousand ducats of the Genoese in the name of the Emperor
Andronicus. It was much less the number of people in what is believed, for the two Berengueres
of Entenza, Rocafort and Roger could not join, or follow him, because his departure differed for next
year. Berenguer de Entenza expect new companies to enhance people of Catalonia forces, and spend
more reputation. Berenguer de Rocafort stopped at a Castle Calabria, deliver and reuse the King Charles
of Naples, to be entirely satisfied of what is owed him by reason of his salary. Roger, though
it lacks these two captains could you stop with just cause, being one of the most key parts of
his army, determined splitting, and embarked his men had postponed the day. King, over ships
and galleys that gave them for their journey, they control supply of provisions and supplies,
and money he could, a Prince that the rule only experienced the hardships
and dangers.

This was the prize that was given to the most invincible and victorious militia of that age, and
served for long twenty years to the Three Kings, Peter, James and Frederic, reaching its enemies
five naval victories, three on the ground, without other significant events, and without the
contestability heavy and large towns, and other defendants with commendable
pertinacity and incredible value.

Such was the moderation of those times, very different from what
we have today, because we see soldiers who have just seen the enemy,
when judged by the largest short mercedes.

CHAPTER VII.

Part of Sicily navy, and militia was the people and the Almugavares.

All people embarked in the port of Mecina, and before leaving the lighthouse, it was shown general,
and were found by Montaner, 1500 effective men out for the service navy, without officers, and
four thousand foot Almugavares. Nicephorus Gregoras, shortly Author true in some of these events,
says that Roger went to Greece one thousand men, but George Pachymeres matches and Montaner,
and claims that were eight thousand who have passed away. This, to I believe, is the true number,
for six thousand five hundred paid soldiers, it is true that reached
the number of eight thousand with the family servants and captains,
and Rich men.

And although these two authors do not agree, the faith of Nicephorus was always doubtful; Roger
because he alone being captain of a thousand men, I can not persuade him that Andronico Grand
Duke did, and he married his granddaughter, without preceding services. Not seem Ageno the
attempt, because all of our infantry was Almugavares say something of its origin.

The old mother of oblivion, and who have died and memories made clear distinguished between
others that left us confused, has been the source of the Almugavares, but as I have could determine,
was of those barbarous nations who destroyed the empire and name the Romans in Spain, and founded
his own, which long kept in splendor and glory of great majesty, until Saracens in less than two
years he was oppressed, and forced to the relics of this universal
fire, which among the most rugged of the mountains, seek defense,
where the beasts killed by his hand were given food and clothing.

But then his old value and effort, which treats gift and had buried with work and fatigue
was restored, and made them leave the jungles and forests, and turn their weapons against Moors
occupied earlier in killing beasts.

With the long custom to go wandering, never built houses or possessions founded campaign, and on
the borders of enemies had their room and the livelihoods of their people and families: spoils of
the Saracens, in which sacrificed the lives perpetually damage without other art or craft paid more
to serve in war, and when their Kings were missing they made, with heads and private leaders
ran the borders, where they came to call the former going to the incursions, go almugaveria. Children
and women brought with them, witnesses of his glory, or shame, as the Germans in all ages have used
it, fur clothing of beasts, sandals, and Antipas of the same. The network of iron weapons in the
head in helmet, sword, pike and a little less than what is used today in companies of musketeers,
but most had three or four Throwing darts.

Such was the haste and violence with that flashed in his hands, crossed armed men and horses,
something apparently Montaner Desclot doubtful if not reported, serious authors of our stories,
where its length is made, which can match concluded with the very Romans and Greeks.

Charles King of Naples, as some prisoners before him Almugavares, admiring the evils of the costume,
and weapons, apparently useless against the bodies of men and armored horses, said with some
contempt, that if they were those soldiers with the King de Aragon think warfare. Then said
one of them off whenever the mood to defend its reputation, Lord, you seem not so vile, and
estimates in as little our power, choose a gentleman of the most mentioned in your army with offensive
weapons and defensive desires, I would offer you with only my sword and dart to fight in the
field with him.

With Charles desire to punish the insolence of Almugavar postponed the challenge, and wanted to
attend and see battle. He left his horse a Frenchman armed with all parts, spear, sword and dart.
Just entered in the lurch when he killed the horse, and willing to do the same owner, King's
voice stopped him and gave him the victor and free.

Another Almugavar in this same war, to the tongue of water rushed twenty men of arms, killed
five before losing his life. Many other facts could refer, if not alien of our history, to try
another length. The question offered only the name, if it was the nation, or of militia in its
principles. I have for a certain thing that was the nation, and for sure more on this opinion,
I have to Pachymeres George Greek author whose fragments give much
light to this whole story, which he calls the descendants of the Avars
Almugavares, companions of Huns, and Goths, and although no author
find that counter to the contrary, many laws of the items are clearly
inferred that the name was name Almugavar militia, and does not contradict
this be true first, because between the two may have been.

At its beginning, as Pachymeres says, was to nation, but then do not exercise as Almugavares
other art or craft, they came to give names to all those who served in that militia as well as
many arts and sciences took the name of its inventors. But I doubt he would have added to the Almugavares,
militia so painful and dangerous, without being of his nation, because their natural inclination
to follow the profession of the parents; and no man can continue to choose military, from the earliest
age that deals with much risk of life, descomodidad, and ongoing work. Nicephore Gregoras says
that Almugavar is name given to all his infantry Latinos, so the Greeks call to all nations to
you west, but there is no reason to contradict with such manifest
falsehood, and more from an author so little noticed in our affairs
as Nicephore.

Navy came Mecina, and prosperous voyage arrived at port Malvacias Morea, where were well received
and helped with some soda on the orders of the Emperor. Before leaving arrived in his letters
he sent to Roger to hasten the voyage. Gladly left people with drink and in a few days the army
arrived in Constantinople, for the month of January indicion second, according Pachymeres with
universal joy of the city seeing the weapons I had to protect, and defend. Andronico, and Miguel emperors,
and all the Greek nobility, with great love and great appreciation samples were received and honored.
He then ordered Andronico land any people, and to stay within the
City in the neighborhood called for Blanquerna and the next day they
handed out four as he had arranged to pay.

CHAPTER VIII.

Roger was home. Fight Catalans and Genoese in Constantinople.

It seemed to the Emperor Andronicus was proper to their safety and credit, implying that the offers
made to our men had to meet a very timely manner, and then show that this deed, given first
by what seemed more difficult, Roger was the wedding of his niece Mary, with which everyone
was satisfied, judging for certain other grants such as lower and easier to enforce. Made
themselves weddings with the solemnity of real people, because the value of Roger could match
the nobility of women. Azan was Mary daughter of Prince of the Bulgarians, and Andronico's sister
Trene of fifteen years of age, extremely beautiful and understood. Among the greatest pleasure
and taste for wedding, there was an uproar and quarrel between Catalans and Genoese fought battle
that almost was bloody, born as often happens in a small case, and although Pachymeres says,
collection was about twenty thousand ducats paid to Roger in Sicily, and that doze Emperor offered
to pay them, but the more one occasion of the quarrel was, a Almugavar flowing through the city gave
rise to two Genoese, seeing him alone, much laughter mocks his suit, and figure, but the military
morale suffered badly Almugavar witticisms and nicknames in court, more daring language of
hands, I rushed to the sword and Trav's independence. Came from both sides supporters and friends, with
courage and prevented or altered as suspects, and that forces from both nations found to their
utter ruin and perdition. The Genoese took their flag or script, and rushed the barracks of
the Almugavares distributed in the neighborhood of Blanquerna. Our cavalry recognizing the danger
of their Almugavares, divided into troops, closed with people Genovesa mismanaged. With this
led to the Almugavares depart from their seats, and together to make satisfaction of those
who so unjustly mistreated.

Peleose of both furthermore, with obstinacy, until the Genoese captain lost his Final Rose is receded
with considerable loss and damage.

Andronico the windows of his palace to watch and looked like the fray when the Genoese were slightly
mistreated, and some dead, and words showed his affection bad mood against them, but when he saw
that with his customary rigor Almugavares were slaying As they were put forward, afraid that
all the Genoese in Constantinople that would not die day; dangerous thing for conservation,
because they depended on the prosperity of his empire. Tiénese Andronico would certainly throw
off the yoke of the Genoese if I could safely but it was hard to have to split them so that they
could press at once, and if the consent of Constantinople perished, was irritate the other forces
remained whole, and with prayers and promises and asked the captains who collected and removed theirs,
and George Pachymeres concerned, he sent to Stephen Marzal Andronico great Drungario and Admiral,
who was a quiet turmoil, and to pacify the parties, and who was killed and dismembered. Finally,
the presence and authority of Roger, and the other captains could
therefore they obeyed all, and with much danger they withdrew, because
they had brought their flags with the intention of undertaking pear,
and loot, along with his revenge greed.

It was this population of Genoese, divided by a narrow sea siege of the city of Constantinople
call of the ancient Horn of Byzantium, and now of the Turks and Greeks Galata. Retired and
sedate us, the Emperor ordered them in appreciation of your prompt obedience wage pay. The Genoese
were killed in the City about three thousand, and although They then took the worst, was the cause
of more damage in coming to ours, irritated because this was a rival and powerful nation, that
mattered to keep their friendship our weapons in the empire, for in these times was great and
feared their power around East, arbiters of peace and war. Colonies and Prisons had distinguished
in Greece Pontus, in Palestine, powerful armed, possessed great wealth acquired in its industry
and value, and absolutely owned the universal treatment in Europe with forces that kept equal to
those of the greatest kings, and republics. This came to be almost owners of the Empire Greek. At
this time when the Catalans came to Constantinople, and recognizing the forces who brought them
to the Genoese seemed dangerous vicinity of their weapons, and so always maintained between these
two nations implacable hatred and enmity that lasted many ages, until the value of the two went
missing, along with the Empire of the sea, and ceased emulation,
for whom often fought with varying fortune.

CHAPTER IX.

Navy passes to the Natoli, and made people in Cape Artacio.

With the danger of dependence between Catalans and Genoese, Andronico
said that could happen, within the City have different and various
armed nations, and offended, which with less chance than last time
came, doubtless, to break. Call our Captains and briefly explained
the shaft would have to see their weapons in Asia, protecting their
miserable and Christian peoples, oppressed by the Turks, and removed
the opportunity of new independence and disorders.

"That's a fine sturdy chap," she afterwards observed. "It's a pity he ain't got somethink to
do to keep him out of mischief. Is he a unemployed? He don't look like one of these Johnnies
that has nothink to do but hang around a street corner and smoke a cigarette."

The two young men measured glances every whit as critically as girls do under similar conditions,
and then equally as casually made reference to the weather. Ernest was somewhat overshadowed
by Eweword, as the latter was superior in size and cast of features, being fully six feet,
while Ernest was not more than five feet nine inches; but as a girl very rarely, if she has
a choice, cares most for the handsomest of her admirers, I was not in the least cast down about
this.

When it was time for me to depart, Ernest rose too, but not Dawn. Ernest's face went down,
Eweword's brightened.

"Miss Dawn is not coming over now, but later on," I said.

The men's glances reversed once more. As the former and I departed--Ernest carrying a wrap
for me--I heard Eweword say--

"Well, come on, Dawn, you're not going to Grosvenor's after all. It seems that old party was
only pulling my leg."

Ernest good-naturedly struggled to talk with me, but I spared him the ordeal, and, arrived
at Grosvenor's, interestedly studied them to discover what manner of procedure "trying to ape
the swells" might be--the swells of Noonoon--the doctor who thought I might "peg out" any minute,
and the bank managers and the parsons.

The only difference to be observed between the tea-table at Clay's and Grosvenor's was that
at the latter the equivalents of Uncle Jake and Andrew did not appear in a coatless condition,
were treated to the luxury of table-napkins, and Mrs Grosvenor, who served, attended to people
according to their rank instead of their position at the table, and entrusted them with the
sugar-basin and milk-jug themselves. Farther than this there was no distinction, and this was
not an alarming one. Certainly Miss Grosvenor, who had not enjoyed half Dawn's educational
advantages, did not as glaringly flout syntax, and slang was not so conspicuous in her vocabulary.
She and Ernest got on so well that none but my practised eyes could detect that as the evening
advanced his brown ones occasionally wandered towards the entrance door, which showed that
much as Miss Grosvenor had got him out of his shell, she had not obliterated Dawn.

That young lady arrived at about a quarter to ten, and we started homewards, determining to
go a long way round, first by way of the Grosvenor's vehicle road to town, by this gaining
the public highway, along which we would walk to the entrance to grandma's demesne. This was
preferable to a short-cut and rolling under the barbed-wire fencing in the long grass sopping
with dew, which at midnight or thereabouts would stiffen with the soft frosts of this region
that would flee before the sun next morning.

Dawn's cheeks were scarlet from rowing on the river with "Dora" Eweword, and she spoke of her
jaunt as soon as we got outside, apparently pregnant with the knowledge innate in the dullest
of her sex, that the most efficacious way of giving impetus to the love of one lover is to
have another.

This, however, is another art which, like good cooking, must be "done to the turn," and in
this instance there was danger of it being done too soon, as Ernest's amour had not taken firm
root yet; and a man, unless he be either of gigantic pluck or no honour at all, will not hurry
to interfere with the secured property of another man.

They chatted in a desultory fashion while I manoeuvred to relieve them of my presence. The
night was lit by a million stars, paling towards the east, where behind the hills a waning
moon was putting in an appearance. The electric lights of the town scintillated like artificial
stars, and away down the long valley could be seen here and there the twinkle of a farmhouse
light, showing where some held mild wassail or a convivial evening; for there were not many
of the agriculturalists, tired from their heavy toil, who were otherwise out of bed at this
ungodly hour of the night.

The crisp winter air agreed with me, and I felt unusually well.

"Let me walk behind, this night is too glorious to waste in talking politics, so you young
people get out of my hearing and thresh out your candidate's merit and demerit and leave me
to think," I said, for politics were in the air and they were touching upon them. They obeyed
me, and soon were lost to view in the dark of the osage and quince hedges grown as breakwinds
on the west of Grosvenor's orangery. Soon I could not hear their footfalls, for I stood still
to watch the trains pass by. 'Twas the hour of the last division of the Western passenger mail,
bearing its daily cargo of news and people to the great plains beyond the hills that loomed
faintly in the light of the half moon. Haughtily its huge first-class engine roared along,
and its carriage windows, like so many warm red mouths, permitted a glimpse of the folk inside
comfortably ensconced for the night. It slowed across the long viaduct approaching the bridge,
and crossed the bridge itself with a roar like thunder, then it swerved round a curve to Kangaroo
till the window-lights gave place to its two red eyes at the rear. As it climbed the first
spur of the great range, and all that could be seen was a belch of flame from the engine-door
as it coaled, something of the old longing awoke within me for things that must always be far
away. The throbbing engines spoke to my heart, and forgetting its brokenness, it stirred again
to their measure--the rushing, eager measure of ambition, strife, struggle! I was young again,
with youth's hot desire to love and be loved, and as its old bitter-sweet clamourings rushed
over me I rebelled that my hair was grey and my propeller disabled. The young folks ahead had
put me out of their life as young folks do, and, measuring the hearts of their seniors by the
white in their hair and the lines around their eyes, would have been incredulous that I still
had capacity for their own phase. Only the royalty of youth is tendered love in full measure;
those who fail to attain or grasp it then find this door, from which comes enticing perfume
and sound of luring music, shut against them for all time, and no matter how appealingly they
may lean against its portals, it will rarely open again, for they have been laid by to be sold
as remnants like the draper's goods which have failed to attract a buyer during the brief season
they were displayed. I stood under the whispering osage and listened to the now distant train
puffing its way over the wild mountains, also to be crossed by the great road first cut by
those whose now long dead limbs had carried chains--members of a bygone brigade as I was one
of a passing company. But probably they each had had their chance of love, and the old bitterness
upsprung that mine had not fallen athwart my pathway. Fierce struggle had always shut me away
from similar opportunity to that enjoyed by the young people ahead.

"Put back your cruel wheel, O Time!" I cried in my heart, "and give me but one hour's youth
again--sweet, ecstatic youth with the bounding pulse, led by the purple mirage of Hope, whose
sirens whisper that the world's sweets are sweet and its crowns worth winning. Let me for a
space be free from this dastard age creeping through the veins, dulling the perspective of
life and leadening the brain, whose carping companions draw attention to the bitters in the
cups of Youth's Delights, and mutter that the golden crowns we struggle for shall tarnish as
soon as they are placed on our tired brows!" Suddenly my bitter reverie was broken by the knight
and the lady calling in startled tones. I replied, and presently they were upon me, Dawn very
much out of breath.

"Oh, goodness, we thought you were ill again. You have given us such a shock. You should not
have been left behind. I was a terrible brute that I didn't harness the pony and drive over
for you;" and Ernest came in a slow second with--

"You should have taken my arm," and he wrapped my cloak about me with the high quality of gentleness
peculiar to the best type of strong man.

Despite my assurance that I never had felt better, they insisted upon supporting me on either
side; so slipping a hand through each of the young elbows conveniently bent, I playfully put
the large hand on the right of me over the dimpling one on the left.

"There!" I said, taking advantage of the liberties extended a probable invalid, "I've made
a breastwork of the hands of the two dearest young friends I have, so now I cannot fall;" and
seeing I put it at that, at that they were content to let it remain, and the big hand very
carefully retained the little one, so passive and warm, in its shy grasp. At the gate I dismissed
Ernest, and Dawn condescended to remark that he wasn't quite such a fool as usual, which interpreted
meant that he had not been so guardedly stand-off to her as he sometimes was.

The trains once more entertained my waking hours that night. Under Andrew's tutorage I had
learned to distinguish the rumble of a "goods" from the rush of a "passenger," a two-engine
haul from a single, and even the heavy voice of the big old "shunter" that lived about the
Noonoon station had grown familiar; but the haughtiest of all was a travelling engine attended
only by its tender, and speeding by with lightsome action, like a governor thankfully free
from officialdom and hampered only by a valet.

Musing on what a little time had elapsed since the work of the passenger trains had been done
by the coaches with their grey and bay teams of five, swinging through the town at a gallop,
and with their occupants armed to the teeth against bushrangers, I dozed and dreamt. I dreamt
that I was in one of the sleeping-cars which had superseded Cobb & Co.'s accommodation for
travellers, and that from it I could see in a bird's-eye view not only the magnificent belt
of mountains, the bluest in the world, but whirling down their westward slopes with a velocity
outstripping the scented winds from sandal ridges and myall plains, I slid across that great
western stretch of country where a portion of the railway line runs for a hundred and thirty-six
miles without rise or fall or curve in the longest straight ribbon of steel that is known.
But ere I reached its end I wakened with a start through something falling in Miss Flipp's room.

Surely I had not slept for more than half an hour, because the light which had shone in the
adjoining room as we returned from Grosvenor's was still burning. Presently Miss Flipp put
it out, and closing her door after her, stealthily made her way from the house. She trod cautiously
and noiselessly, but her gown caught on the lower sprouts of the ragged old rose-bushes beside
the walks, and though she took a long time to open the little gate opening towards the wharves
and the narrow pathway running along the river-bank to the bridge, it creaked a little on its
rusty hinges, so that I heard it and fell to awaiting the girl's return.

I waited and waited, and beguiled the time by counting the trains that passed with the quarter
hours. There were so many that I soon lost count. This line carried goods to the great wheat
and wool-growing west and brought its produce to the city. Many of the noisy trains were laden
with "fifteen hundred" and "two thousand" lots of "fats," and the yearly statistics dealing
with the sales at Homebush chronicled their total numbers as millions. From beyond Forbes,
Bourke, and Brewarrina they came in trucks to cross the bridge spanning the noble stream at
the mountain's base, but they never went back again to the great plains where they had basked
in plenty or staggered through droughts as the fickle seasons rose and fell. The voracious,
insatiable maw of the city was a grave for them all, and the commercial greed which falls so
heavily on the poor dumb beasts in which it traffics, caged them so tightly for their last
journey that by the time they reached Noonoon they were bruised and cramped and not a few trodden
under foot. The empty trucks going west again made the longest trains, as they could be laden
with nothing but a little wire-netting for settlers who were fighting the rabbits, and were
easily distinguishable from other "goods," as when they clumsily and jerkily halted the clanking
of their couplings and the bumping of their buffers could be heard for a mile or more down
the valley. The splendid atmosphere intensified all sounds and carried them an unusual distance,
and many a time at first I was wont to be aroused from sleep in the night with a notion that
the thundering trains were going to run right over the house.

On the night in question I had not heard Miss Flipp return from her midnight tryst, though
all the luggage trains had passed and it neared the time of the first division of the up or
citywards mail from the west, which was the earliest train to arrive in town from the country
daily. It passed Noonoon in the vicinity of 4 A.M.--a radiant hour in the summer dawn, but
then in winter, the time when bed is most alluring, when the passengers' breath congeals on
the window-panes, they complain that the foot-warmers have got cold, and give yet one more
twist to their comforters and another tug at their 'possum or wallaby rugs. This train passed
with its shaking thunder, drew into Noonoon for refreshments, then on and on with noisy energy,
but still Miss Flipp did not return.

I concluded that she must have decided to leave us in this fashion, or that I had missed her
entry during the rumble of a passing train, or mayhap I had snoozed for a moment, or perhaps
an hour, as the unsympathetic heavy sleepers aver the insomnists must do; and ceasing to be
on the alert any longer, I really slept.

FIFTEEN.

ALAS! MISS FLIPP!

I hastened to appear at the half-past seven breakfast, as no excuse for non-appearance was
taken, and the only concession made to Miss Flipp, who had not been present at it for some
time, was that she could make herself a cup of cocoa when she chose to rise. For this meal
grandma ladled out the porridge and flavoured it with milk and sugar in the usual way.

"I say, Dawn, which of them blokes, Ernest or Dora, is the best boat-puller?" inquired Andrew
as he received his portion. "You were mighty stingy with the sugar, grandma!"

"Dora isn't in it," responded Carry. "Mr Ernest could get ahead of him every time."

"So he ought!" said Dawn. 

With this new walked for three days after he departed from neighboring villages to Constantinople,
and pitched his property be the river that the natives of the province
called Xerogipso.

And after two days he was there, around midnight, the announcement came as the Turks were nearly
full of great plunder.

Préparose Philes for battle, and at sunrise were found clearly and distinctly on both sides.

The
Turks with great haste put the cars around the captive and prey,
making his usual prayer so Gregoras account, and throwing dust on
their heads.

While fight, rushed to anemigo Philes, but he who ruled the right horn, killing his own hands
two Turks, was wounded in a foot of luck, that had to leave the battle.

This

so astounded people who fought on the side that was almost derailed, if Philes with its value
does not encourage them and stop.

Peleóse great time, but the victory leaned to the side of Phil, and the Turks routed and losers,
most of them having died in battle, fled.

Ensued the extent to which the Turks came to a castle where they had fortified. Philes continued
its victory, and in a few days he came to bring them site.

The Emperor knew Quando the good fortune of the day, sent some galleys of Genoese to keep close
to and pens that no relief could come to them. Seeing the Turks so desperate for have all closed
paths of their choice, decided to leave the castle at night, dying as men.

Phil came to him two thousand horses Tribal, and many Genoese, to press closer to the site. Turks
to see more powerful not moved Philes mind, before with new courage and brio, came by night and
attacked the quarterings the field, but were refuted and cast with
his great loss.

Another night they returned to try his fortune, and gave in stores Lodging of the tribe, which
became very badly treated. Finally resolved to remedy abandon the castle, and take back the sea where
they were the galleys of the Genoese, in whom they thought to find some mercy for them not offended.

Night
was very dark, and so many Turks are thinking about going to the sea, gave in the hands of the Greeks,
who were killed mercilessly. Others came to the language of water, says Nicephore The Genoese
killed many, and many captives, but Montaner adds that this vnder was word that would go down
without hurting them Natoli, and that when they had them within their galleries, they threw chain
and killed. Since this is, the Turks colleagues from the Catalans and Aragonese ended on this
day, after having them alone disturbed the Empire about three years, retiring five hundred miles
out there, or little least, from Athens to Gallipoli, and even to destroy them, with so few,
there Andronico to avail themselves of the tribal, and Latinos, and
yet it was a miracle that God worked through Phil, because when they
saw Miguel desvaratado and defeated, I felt that we would not be Human
strong enough to resist, but had to come to the divine.

CHAPTER LXX.

In some events of the Catalans and Aragonese in Athens.

The Catalans and Aragonese and insurance firm and in the provinces
of Athens, and Boeotia, gobernaronse Roger Deslau some time, as above
diximos, but shortly after, or death of Roger, because they got tired
of his government, and had been placed, sent ambassadors to King Don
Frederic, whom he loved from the heart, for more injuries and less
price than he had received, and begged them were served Prince and
Lord to govern.

The King with the ambassador gave himself for feeling satisfied with the past because he would
not admit the Infante D. Fernando his nephew in his name. But as Rocafort, who was had indeed
that was the author of this council, was already dead, and now offered him the same as a then
pretended not passed on their anger, even though I understand that
most live his despondency was not as good dexára lose his opportunity
to increase child a state so big.

Don King took his advice Fadrique the person who would send them,
and then seemed Infante Manfredo appoint his second son by Prince
and Lord of those states, and swore that the ambassadors on behalf
of the entire company.

The inquest, at which we all had to appear, elicited information that fairly stood poor grandma's
hair on end. It was a great blow to find that she had been harbouring a woman who was not as
Cæsar's wife, and that it was fear of the penalty of her divergence from what is accepted as
virtue, had driven her to take her life ere she had transmitted the tribulation of being to
a nameless child.

Nothing was cleared up regarding her antecedents. The person by whom she was supposed to be
recommended to Mrs Clay knew of no such individual, and no one came to claim her.

Her uncle, it was discovered, had a day or two previously sailed for America on urgent business,
and after the girl's death an affectionate letter for her arrived from him. She had left nothing
to fix the blame where it belonged, but with a misdirected loyalty so common in her sex had
paid all the debt her frail self.

The post on the day of her death brought me a pathetic little note, in which she stated that
she wished to bear the whole blame; a woman always had to in any case, and as she could not
face it she had decided upon death. She had written this to me because she felt I had had an
inkling of how matters had been with her, and she thanked me that I had kept silent, in conjunction
with the observation that it was not usual for such as she to meet with forbearance from those
who had had sense to preserve their respectability. Ah, the regret that consumed me that I
had not risked the unpopularity of interference and sought her confidence. I might have been
able to have saved her from such an end!

I kept my knowledge to myself. It would scarcely have hurt Mr Pornsch. Under the British Constitution
property is far more sacred than women. But having a fatality in belief that there is a law
of retribution in all things, I hoped to be able to sheet this crime home to its perpetrator
in a way that should put him to confusion when he least expected it.

There was ample money for burial among the girl's belongings, which were taken in charge by
the police, and there let the cruelly common incident rest for the present.

The affair so upset Dawn that she refused to occupy her usual room any longer, and at her suggestion
she and I determined to occupy a big upstairs room, up till that time filled with rubbish.
This being agreed upon we forsook the apartments opening into the river garden, and betook
ourselves to an altitude from which we had even a better view of the valley, river, and trains.

Dawn so perceptibly went "off colour" that I persuaded her grandmother to let the singing lessons
begin by way of diverting her mind.

The old lady would not contemplate paying more than two guineas per quarter, so I saw a six
guinea teacher, arranged with him to take the pupil at four, two of which I privately paid
myself, and Dawn at last set out for the city for her first lesson in the arduous and unattractive
boo-ing and ah-ing that lie at the foundation of a singer's art.

SIXTEEN.

ADVANCE, AUSTRALIA!

In the career of a prodigy there invariably comes a time when it is compelled to relinquish
being very clever for a child, and has to enter the business of life in competition with adults.

This crisis had arrived in the career of the prodigy Australia.

It is at the time of electing new or re-electing old representatives of the people to the legislature
that the state of a country's affairs is more prominently before the public than at any other,
and preceding the State election in which Grandma Clay was to exercise the rights of full citizenship
for the first time, it was a lugubrious statement.

That the country had gone to the dogs was averred by each candidate for the three hundred a-year
given ordinary State members, and each described himself as the instrument by which it could
be restored to a state of paradisaical prosperity.

This is an old bogey, unfailingly revived at elections. The Ministerialists invariably roar
how they have improved the public finances, while the Opposition as blatantly tries to drown
them by bellowing that the retiring government has damned the country, and that the Opposition
has the only recipe of satisfactory reconstruction, but in spite of this threadbare election
scare the Commonwealth remained the freest and one of the wealthiest abiding-places in the world. 

Proem.

My intent is to write the memorable Shipping and Day, which the Catalans and Aragonese made
to the provinces of East, when his fortune and went competing value in increasing power and
esteem, called by Andronico Paleologo Greek Emperor in relief and defense of his government
and home. Favored and esteemed as the weapons of the Turks I had almost depressed, and feared
his perdition and ruin, but after that effort ours was free of them, mistreated and persecuted with
great cruelty and barbaric ferocity; was born the natural obligation to look for their defense
and preservation, and the cause of back invincible forces against the Greeks themselves, and
Prince Andronico, which were formidable, causing fear and awe to the greatest princes of Asia and
Europe, perdition and total destruction to many nations and provinces, and admiration to all
the world. Will this work, though small by the neglect of the old, long in deeds, write short,
full various and strange cases of continuous warfare in remote and isolated several Towns and
warlike people, of bloody battles and unexpected victories of dangerous finished with gains
so happy by so few and divided Catalans and Aragonese, that were initially mockery of those
nations, and after the great instrument of punishment God made them. Defeated the Turks in
the first increase of its greatness Othomana, dispossessed large and wealthy provinces of Asia Minor,
and by main strength and rigor of our swords locked in the most harsh and desert mountains
of Armenia. After the weapons around against the Greeks, on whose behalf they passed, to get
rid of an ignominious death, and avenge wrongs not without great disgrace could hide their esteem
and disgrace of his name. Won by force many towns and cities, powerful armies routed and broken,
defeated and field dead kings and princes, great Provinces destroyed and deserted, dead, captive,
or exiled its inhabitants, more than deserved revenge lawful. Thracia, Macedonia, Thessaly, and Boeotia
tread penetrated and in spite of all the princes and forces of the East, and lately died at his
hands the Duke of Athens with all the nobility of his subjects, and the relief of French and Greeks
held their state, and he formed a new dominion. In all these events not without treachery, cruelty,
theft, violence and sedition, pestilence common, not only an army colecticio and weak for
the short head of the supreme power, but great and powerful monarchies. If, as the Catalans defeated
his enemies, overcome their ambition and greed, not to exceed the limits of right, and kept
together, dilating their weapons until the final end of East, and see Palestine and Jerusalem,
the second time crossed flags. For his courage and military discipline, his constancy in adversity,
suffering in the work, safety hazards, alacrity in executions, and other the military virtues
were in the highest degree, while the anger is not perverted. But same power that God gave
them to punish and oppress many nations wanted it to be the instrument of his own punishment.
With the pride of the good events, faded with prosperity, came to be divided into the competence
of government, divided to kill, with which ignited a civil war, terrible and cruel, which caused
no major damage comparison and deaths, that they had with strangers.

CHAPTER I.

State of the Kingdoms and Kings of Aragon's house by this time.

Before beginning to our story, it is important for whole words, the state news who were the provinces
and Kings of Aragon, his armies and navies, their friends and enemies; principles necessary
to know which is founded the main cause of this expedition. The Rey Don Pedro of Aragon, whom
the greatness of his works gave renown Great, son of Don Jaime el Conquistador Gostanza was
married to the daughter of King Manfred of Sicily, whom Charles of Anjou with the help of the
Roman Pontiff, the blood enemy of Emperor Frederick, removed the Kingdom and life. Charles
stayed with his death Prince and King of the Two Sicilies, and more after the unfortunate Coradin,
last Prince of the house of Swabia, broken and destroyed, prisoner came into his hands, and by
his order and sentence, he was beheaded in public scaffold, for eternal memory of a vicious
revenge, and great example of the human variety. Don Pedro King of Aragon was not then strong
enough to take the death satisfacion Manfredo and Coradin, or later to be King he led the civil
wars, because Valencia went Moors raised, and the Barons and rich men were quarreling d Catalonia
and malcontents, and also because they were declared enemy of Charles, provoked against yes
the arms of France, and the Church, so formidable are the divine, the Kingdoms of Sicily and
Naples out of his house, his arms employed in defense against enemies more neighbors. All these
difficulties stopped the mood offended the King, but not in any way, erasing the memory of the
grievance. In some views he had with the King of France Filipe its brother, Charles Entreviñas
son of King of Naples, King of France wanting to be friends and talk, always excused Don Pedro and
his face showed sorrow and disgust I had in my heart, that they were all satisfied and bland
bad, and certainly then Charles was prevented and arm, if he believed that the forces of King of
Aragon were equal his mind and thought. But the sky gave them enough to take full and fair
satisfacion of the innocent blood of so-hidden Coradin means, not learned until it the published execution.

Sicilianos
Outrageous insolence prompted the French, unbridled in their shame and dishonor took up arms, and
made the famous Sicilian Vespers commonly called, shook the public
cervix insufferable yoke of the French, and Charles, which unfairly
opremia, leaving to the discretion and restraint of ministers unjust
cause the most often occurs removals in the states and their princes
miserable cases.

Charles then went to powerful army to punish the bold and rebellious subjects. They closed the door
watching to all piety and mercy, hoping to put their medicine and shelter in King Don Pedro Aragon,
which at this juncture was in Africa, as a true Prince Christiano, with army victoriso and
successful in many Sheikhs and Kings of Barbary, assisted by the majority of the nobility and soldiers
in their kingdoms. Came before him Ambassadors Sicily filled with tears, mourning and feeling,
enough with this sad demonstration to move not only the mind of a King offended by particular
grievance, but that of any man other than as felt. Acordaronle unfortunate death of Manfred,
and the insulting of Coradin, facilitaronle revenge with the help of the people of Sicily, to his
name as fans and foes France. Recently I proposed a dangerous state of liberty, life and property,
if they do not maintain their value, for that and Charles was on Mecina, and threatened the
rigor of his punishment a pitiful end to the Kingdom. Moved by these reasons and that his vengeance
offered him, his reputation went before them Trapana with all his might, and went so quickly
on his enemy, who hardly knew Charles was coming, when he saw their weapons, and found himself forced
to raise the siege and withdraw folly to Calabria.

This made the pontiff as a friend, and the King of France and deed, the bare Charles showed
favoring and enemies of Don Pedro, and took arms against him. The King of Castile and friendship
for bereaved should help, it came to be, and bent to follow the most power. Don Jaime King
of Mallorca, his brother, also forsook him, giving help and step by their states to their opponents,
even if excused with the weak forces His Kingdom, uneven and opposition
to the defense of such a powerful enemy, apologize to many Sometimes
the young princes, conceal it wrong, attributing to the need that
is ambition.

Don Pedro with friends this was found not only with his courage, fortune, and reason to meet
The outrage and disgrace of his house. While he tried all lost, defeated his enemies repeatedly
reinforced new leagues and relief, all the broke and humiliated in sea, on land. Aragon kept the
name of a great reputation and fame, and was the first King of Spain, who placed his winning
flags in the Kingdom of Italy, on whose basis Today we look raised his monarchy. By taking
Charles of Sicily, he tried to reduce it further his obedience, and this was great and notable
events, but always home Aragon, secured in the Kingdom with victories, not only against the power of
Charles, but all the greatest Princes of Europe to help him.

Reyes died two largest competitors in the rage and rigor of the war, and right inherited succession
to Charles King of Naples, his eldest son the same name, which in this time was a prisoner
in Catalonia. A Don Pedro King of Aragon succeeded by his two sons, Alfonso greatest in the
Kingdom of Spain, Jaime in Sicily. Prosiguiose war to the death Alfonso, who die without children
was Don Jaime called to the succession, and had to come to these realms, leaving Sicily to
his brother Don Frederic, to govern and defend the on their behalf. After his return to Spain,
Don Jaime, recovered some of their forces Kingdoms Sicilian resigned
to the Church, fearing that the weapons Spanish, French and Church
at the same time not rushed, and his mother Gostanza convinced that
as a woman of singular holiness, wanted more than his son lost the
kingdom, which extend over time reconciled with the Church.

Enviaronse to Sicily to give effect to the renunciation Ambassadors from Don Jaime and Gostanza,
and provide the kingdom with the legacies of the Roman Pontiff. But people from war and natural
indignation of the facility, with its King resigned as with so much blood work and had acquired
and sustained, and gave them so mercilessly his enemies, who had feared forced servitude and
death, it seems to Sicilians true danger, and to the Catalans and Aragonese decline in reputation,
which what weapons they could not reach their opponents in so many years, was reached by a resolution
of a misguided King, returned to take up arms and oppose the Legacies, Don persuaded Frederic as
a true successor to the father and brother, whose name was King, and to take charge of common defense.

It
was easy to persuade a prince of spirits lifted, the flower of his youth, and which otherwise could
not fail to be a vassal and subject to the laws of brother occasion enough, if it was not
helped so many reasons, to precipitate the few years of Don Frederic. Llamosa King, and as such
he was admitted and crowned. Prevínose for the cruel war that threatened him, assisted by good
soldiers, and the faithful and soon to their preservation, holding him for the second liberator
of the country. Opusose to Charles after its largest and most neighboring enemy, the Pope
protected and defended their cause, and Rey Don Jaime, who was declared enemy brother, whose
joint forces attacked and defeated him in battle naval war that was to complete, and Don Frederic
lost. But the hidden disposition of Divine Providence, that some sometimes out of the common
hopes to move the events we know that it alone governs and governed, Don Frederic remained in
his Kingdom, with universal content of the good, wonder and terror of their enemies, and glory
of his name.

Deshizose shortly after the league, away from her Don Jaime King of Aragon, with great feeling and
complaints of their allies, because without the forces of Aragon seemed something fatal and
almost impossible conquer a king of her home, and experience showed, as Don Jaime paragraph League,
always the enemies of Don Frederic were losing, and he credited with victories, even to try to force
peace by staying with the Kingdom, something that's just thinking it was offended. Concluyéronse
after some contradictions, and more firmly established with marriage, which later became Eleanor
daughter of Charles, with Don Frederic, with which the United was free and without any danger of returning
to the old easement, and Mr. King peaceful state so valiantly defended. El Rey Don Jaime his
brother sustained their kingdoms of Aragon Catalonia, and Valencia with great peace and reputation,
beloved of his subjects, dreaded by the infidels, powerful at sea, served as celebrity captains,
awaiting an opportunity of enlarging his crown imitation d their
pasts.

El Rey de Mallorca au-Prince under the house of Aragon enjoyed the lordship of Montpellier peacefully,
Rocellon Counties, Cerdanya, and Conflent, difficult to preserve, for this split, and have more
powerful neighbors, among whom were always Reyes fluctuating their small, but by this time lived
with reputation, and fortune as the other kings of his house.

CHAPTER II.

General Election.

They had the Realms of Aragon, Majorca and Sicily the state of which we have referred, when old
soldiers, and captains of opinion, who served the great King Don Pedro, Don Jaime their son,
Don Frederic lately in this war in Sicily, judging and for finished, done peace more secure
by the remarriage of Leonor Fadrique greater friendship link among the powerful, while the
interest and ambition will not dissolve and break down, broken more alive because of enmity
and hatred implacable, thinking that he could not wait then chances of war breaking and tried
to start a new one against infidels and enemies of Christianity in
remote and isolated provinces.

Because it was so much effort and the value of that militia, and
both the desire to achieve new glories and victories, they had to
Sicily by a narrow field to dilate to increase his fame, and so they
decided to seek sometimes arduous, dangerous trances, for this is
greater and more illustrious.

Helped to give effect to such large thoughts two reasons, based on grounds of conservation. The
first was the lack of security which had to return to Spain, his homeland, and live with her reputation
for having followed the parts of Don Frederic with such obstinacy against Rey Don Jaime and his
natural lord, that Don Jaime auque Prince of mind was not vindictive, and was held to be true,
that as in the fury of a war against his brother consented to should give them as traitors
those who followed him, less punishing in cold blood like he could, and refused at the time
you were offended now, following the flags of against his brother. But the offended Majesty natural
Prince, but refer the punishment is always alive in the mind the memory of the offense, and although
not enough grievances for them, at least not impede the use of them in the highest positions: unworthy
of their service they deserved, nobility and administrative positions
in peace and war.

The second reason, and the one you forced to leave Sicily, was unable to see the King poderles
support of the largesse that before, being the property Real and United destroyed by a war of
twenty years, and they used to spend in excess the property of others as your own when they lacked
spoils of conquered cities and towns. As between the two ceased things made peace, and war
defunct, judged by reduced impossible thing to live in moderation.

Don King Frederic, and his father and brother, his assistance in the war, and as witnesses of
the deeds, industry and courage of his subjects, rarely deceived in dealing the grants, because
they gave more credit to his eyes, his ears, and always the prize to the services, not to favor.
With this missing from your complainers and malcontents Kingdoms, but not could give to all who
served states and estates, with some left with less comfort that his services deserved. But they
saw that the Kings were to sum generosity and greatness which could lawfully Captains to the
most signal, attributed only to his misery, and virtue, and incomparable value of which were preferred,
the found lower.

These were the reasons that moved the minds together to try to enlarge in new companies and
conquests.

Most major Captains who cheered and encouraged others were four, under whose flags, Vice Admiral
Roger de Flor served in Sicily Berenguer de Entenza, Ferran Jimenez Arenas, both rich men,
and Berenguer de Rocafort; all known and appreciated by soldiers of great reviews. Shared
their thoughts between its supporters and friends, and being with good disposition and courage
to follow them in any day, resolved to undertake that seem more useful and honorable. For the
conclusion This deal came together in secret, and before discussing his expedition, wanted
to give head because she was useless without any advice and determination, who can missing and
must be controlled. With the common understanding that this came together, was appointed General
Vice Admiral Roger de Flor, powerful at sea, brave and respected
soldier, practical and well lucky sailor, who in wealth and money
exceeded all other captains; primary cause to be preferred.

CHAPTER III.

Who was Roger de Flor.

Roger de Flor was born, whom the General and our elected supreme head pro at Brindiz noble parents,
his father was German, called Ricardo de Flor, Emperor Frederick Hunter his mother Italian, and
natural place. Ricardo died in the battle that Charles of Anjou had with Coradin, whose party
continued, being grandson of Frederick the Prince and Lord. Charles insolent victory, after
having cut the head to Coradin, confiscated the estates of all those who took up arms to help.
With this loss was Roger and his mother extreme poverty, and it was raised until the age of
fifteen, a French knight, Temple religious, called Yassaill, is fond
on the occasion of Brindiz assist with Alcon ship the Temple, whose
Captain was.

Roger sailed with him a few years and won such a good opinion in
the year professed that he received for his Religion, Brother giving
the habit of sergeant at that time almost equal to that gentleman.

With Roger began to be known and feared throughout the Levantine
Sea, while Prolemayde Said Acre by another name, surrendered to the
arms of Melech Taseraf Sultan of Egypt, Roger, as Pachymeres referred,
was one of those attending a convent of the Temple, and seeing that
the city could not defend, collected many Christians in a ship, with
the cattle that escaped of cruelty and rage of the Barbarians.

 'Men,' she says, 'ought to rule; they're the stronger
vessel.'" And Dawn gave inimitable mimicry of Miss Jimmeny of the pub. "If you take my tip
for it, those girls that sing out that men are the stronger vessel are the sort that have a
dishcloth of a husband, and never let him off a string."

This attitude of mind was one of Dawn's distinctive characteristics. Having that beauty, which
in the enslaved condition of women has always been an unfair asset to the possessor, to the
exclusion of worthier traits, she was not like most beauties, content to sit down and trade
upon it, but had wholesomer, honester, workaday ideals in regard to the position of her sex.

She was going to Sydney in the morning for her second singing lesson, and as Ernest, by a strange
coincidence, happened to have business that would take him on the same journey by the same
train, I accompanied him to the gate to warn him against inadvertently divulging that I had
been an actress by trade.

"I want to take you into my confidence," I said, as we passed several naked cedar-trees, and
halted in the shelter of some fine peppers that grew to perfection in this valley, where I
related the trouble I had had to bring the old lady round to the idea of Dawn's singing lessons,
and mentioned the girl's ambition regarding the stage.

"Now," I continued, "if the old dame were to discover I had been on the stage, she would think
I was leading Dawn to the devil, and would not credit that no one is more anxious than I am
to save her from the footlights, or that the best way to stave her off is this training. My
secret ambition regarding her," I said, critically observing the strong knobby profile, "is
that within the next five years she should marry some nice youngster with means to place her
in a setting befitting her intelligence and beauty."

"Have you got any one in your eye now?" he irrelevantly inquired. And, considering he stood
where he filled my entire vision, as he rose between me and the light shed by the last division
of the western passenger mail as it self-importantly crossed the viaduct, I answered--

"Yes; I think I know a man who would just fill the bill."

He did not ask for further particulars, but remarked warningly--

"Decent fellows with cash are scarce. They are inclined to get into mischief if they have too
much time and money on their hands."

"That's it; and I would not like to make a mess of things now that I've taken up matchmaking.
You'll have to advise me when matters get out of hand; a little practice may come in handy
some day when you have half a dozen daughters."

"It would come in still handier now."

"Pshaw, now! You'd only have to ask to receive, at your time of life and with your qualifications."

"I'm not so sure. You're the only one who has such an opinion of me," he said disconsolately.
"Others look upon me as a red-headed fool with big ears, &c.;" and thus I knew Dawn's idle
words had returned to his ears, as these things invariably do, and had stung.

"Silly-billy! I'll take you in hand when I've settled Dawn. I'm the one to advertise your wares,
for could I turn back the wheel of time eight or nine years and make us of an age, I'd make
it leap-year and propose to you myself."

"I'd like to propose to you without altering the time," he gallantly responded, apparently
not in such deadly fear of a breach of promise action as was Uncle Jake.

"If I don't move in the matter Dawn will be marrying that Eweword, and though he's a most handsome
and worthy--"

"Soft as a turnip," contemptuously interposed Ernest; "eats too much. It would take twelve
months hard training to make any sort of a man of him."

"It would be a pity to see Dawn just settling down into the dull, drudging life of a farmer's
wife, going to an occasional show or tea-meeting in a home-made dress, with two or three children
dragging at her skirts and looking a perfect wreck, as most of the mothers do."

"By Jove, yes!"

"She has a right to be on the lawn on Cup Day or in the front circle on first nights. She'd
surprise some of the grandees, and with her vivacity and courage she'd make a furore for a time."

"She'd make a good sport if she were a man," assented Ernest. "No running stiff or jamming
a jock on the post or anything like that from her--she'd always hit straight out from the shoulder
and above the belt."

"Yes; she has particularly infatuated me, and I'd like to save her from Eweword."

"Marry him to the girl Grosvenor while you're about it and that will dispose of him and suit
her, for she strikes me as anxious for matrimony."

"She hasn't been--" I began.

"Oh, no, I think she's a splendid woman in every way, but--"

"But, even the finest and most chivalrous man, while he thinks the only sphere for women is
matrimony, yet is shocked if a woman betrays in the least way that her ambitions lie in the
domestic line--strange inconsistency. However, you will not let Dawn know my ideas of disposing
of her;" and with the want of perspicacity of his sex, or else with a wonderful power of covering
his thoughts excelling that of women, and of which women never suspect men, Ernest promised
without sensing what I had in view.

SEVENTEEN.

MRS BRAY AND CARRY COME TO ISSUES.

Contention arose in the Clay household next day, Dawn's singing lessons being at the root of
the trouble. It was her week in the kitchen, and that she should be two days absent from the
cooking, displeased Carry.

"Well, if you don't think the place fair, you can go!" said grandma. "But I think you're a
fool, an' you're giving me a lot of worry. It's all very fine in other people's places, but
some day w'en you have a home of your own you'll know the worry of it. Next time I make a arrangement
with a girl she'll have to take a extra day in the kitchen without humbuggin'."

"I'll vote for me grandma on that bill," said Andrew, "for I've often been give the pip by
who is in the kitchen an' who is out of it. Grandma, did you hear the latest? Young Jack Bray's
been in another orange orchard and didn't do a get quick enough, and has got took up, and his
father will have to pay money to keep him out of quod."

The old lady bristled.

"Didn't I tell you! Who knows how to receive these things best now? I've always believed in
rarin' me family me own way, an' Mrs Bray is a fine woman, moral and decent, but she's got
too many stones to throw at others and doesn't see to it sharp enough that less stones can't
be threw at her. I thought she didn't take it serious enough. You'd have been in this too only
for me dreadin' the spark. What are they goin' to do?"

"Pay the money, of course; an' Mr Bray is goin' to tan the hide off Jack."

"Some people don't get frightened of dishonesty unless it costs 'em something," said the old lady.

"Well, I'll vote for me grandma every time," said Andrew, "and Jim Clay every second time,"
as he went out the door, "and meself the most times of all," he concluded in the back yard.

Mrs Bray dropped in that afternoon for a chat, and grandma mentioned that we were without afternoon
tea because Carry had "jacked up" about getting it, for reasons before mentioned.

"Just like her!" said Mrs Bray; "she gives herself as much side as if she was one of us. She's
the sort of girl who wouldn't think twice of telling you to do a thing yourself, and you've
made an awful fool of her by making so much of her. Them things of girls earnin' their own
livin' ought to be kept in their place more," was the utterance of a woman who believed herself
a staunch advocate for the freedom of her sex; but when Mrs Bray spoke of sex she meant self.

"That ain't the point," said grandma; "I never think it anythink but a credit to a girl to
be earnin' her living, an' would never be narrer enough to make them feel it. I always make
a practice of treatin' the girls as near equal as within reason, for Carry's every bit as fine-lookin'
an' good a girl as me own, an' if I wasn't here, wouldn't Dawn have to be foragin' for herself
too? but there's reason in everythink, and Carry might be a bit obligin'."

"Of course she ought to be; but what could you expect of her, took up with that Larry Witcom,
an' does the ass think he really wants her? He's only got her on a string for his own amusement?
He goes to see that Dora Cowper at the same time; Jack seen him there. I wonder will he be
scared off by being thought a ketch before the pot's boiled, so to speak. Good ketches, eh?
I don't see nothing in none of them. They're only thought something because men is scarce here;
they've all cleared out to the far out places, and West Australia. It's like a year the pumpkins
is scarce, you can sell little things you'd hardly throw to the pigs another time, and that's
the way it is with the few paltry fellers round here. It makes me mad to see the girls after
them--the fools! and the men grinnin' behind their backs. There's that Ada Grosvenor, if Eweword
just calls up and talks to her she tells you about it as if it was something, and inviting
him down there, an' then the blessed fellers gets to think they're gods. It makes me sick!"

"Yes," said grandma; "I see the girls after fellers now,--there's that Danby for instance,
he's a fine lump of a man, but w'en I was a girl I wouldn't have made toe-rags of a policeman."

"Yes, a blessed feller strollin' up and down the street lookin' at his toes or runnin' in a
drunk. I say, did you hear the latest about old Rooney-Molyneux? He didn't believe in women
having the vote, didn't consider they had intellect to vote, so he says (not as much brain
as he has, don't you see, to marry a woman, and a baby to be coming and nothing to put on its
back, while he strolls round and gets drunk), but now they've got the vote, he says (the great
Lord Muck Rooney-Molyneux says it, remember) that it is their duty to use it, and he intends
to make (mind you, make; I'd like to hear a man say he'd make me do anything; I'd scald him,
see if I wouldn't, and that's what wants doing with half the men anyhow, for the way they carry
on to women), and he's going to make his wife go round canvassing, Now! Men make me sick; w'en
they're boys they're that troublesome they ought to be kep' under a tub, and we'n they get
older they're that cantankerous and self-important they all want killin' off."

"I'll bet Mrs Rooney won't be workin' for a different man to him. If her convictions led her
that way, you'd see he'd have a flute about her not bein' fit to be out of her home," said
grandma astutely.

"Yes, that's the way with 'em; first they thought the world would tumble to pieces if women
stirred out of the house for a minute to vote, and now that we've got the vote in spite of
them, they'd make their wives walk round after votes for their side whether they was able or not."

"They kicked agen us having the vote, and now we've got it they think we ought to vote with
them like as if we was a appendage of theirs; men will be learnt different to that by-and-by,
but it's best to go gradual; they've had as much as they can swaller for a time."

"Ain't it just the very devil to them to think women is considered as important as themselves
now, instead of something they could just do as they like with? Old Hollis there says he won't
vote this year because the women have one. Did you ever hear of an insult like that? He says
the monkeys will have a vote next, and that shows you what men think of women,--like as if
they was some sort of animals."

"Well, if you ask me," said grandma, "the monkeys have been havin' a vote all along in the
case of old Hollis."

Any further discussion in this line was terminated by the entrance of Carry, with her good-looking
face flushed and hard set, as, rolling down her sleeve and buttoning it aggressively as the
finishing touch to her toilet after completing her afternoon's work, she confronted Mrs Bray,
on battle bent.

"Well, Mrs Bray, I'd like to have given my opinion of you to your teeth long ago, but I held
my tongue as it wasn't my house, and some people have different tastes and have folk around
that I'd be a long time having anything to do with. Now, I think things do concern me, and
I'm going to have my say; I couldn't have it sooner because I'm a thing earning my living and
had to finish my work. I haven't got a home of my own, and like some people, if I had, I'd
be in it teaching my dirty rude brats not to be thieves. I wouldn't for everlasting be at other
people's places scandalising people twice as good as myself. I didn't think Mrs Clay was the
sort of person to go tittle-tattling--she can please herself; but it doesn't concern you if
I do put on airs. I want to know what you mean by that I should be kept in my place. I'll swear
I know how to carry my day as well as you do, and to keep in my place too well to be going
round meddling with other people's business."

"I didn't say nothing but was correct, an' what right have you to come bullying me? It's like
your impudence--you a hussy out to work for your living at a few shillings a-week, and calling
yourself a lady help when you're a servant, that's what you are; to bully me, a woman with
a good home, and the mother of a family."

Carry snorted contemptuously.

"That old 'mother of a family' racket needn't be brought forward. It doesn't hold as much water
as it used to. Women are thought just as much of now who are good useful workers in the world,
and not tied up to some man and the mother of a few weedy kids that aren't any credit to king
or country."

"Mercy!" exclaimed grandma. "What am I to?"

"Let 'em fight it out," I laconically advised in an aside, and she seemed disposed to take
my advice.

"You dare," blustered Mrs Bray. "And what else have you got to say?"

"I want an explanation of the aspersion on my character when you said I had taken up with Larry
Witcom. I'm not going to stand anything on my character in that line if I am earning my living,
and you are the mother of one or fourteen families, all as great a credit to you as the one
Jack represents. And as for me earning my living, what are you doing? If a man wasn't keeping
you to suit himself, how would you be earning your living? I could earn my living the same
way as you are doing to-morrow if I liked; but of the two, I think my present occupation is
the decentest and less dependent. Apart from your bullying selfishness, a nice sensible way
you have of talking! If you killed off the men, who would you have to keep you? And that's
a nice civilised way to speak about your fellow creatures anyhow; whether they be men or black
gins, they've just as much place in the scheme of creation as you have. We would have been
a long time getting the vote or any other decent right if the men were like you. It's because
you are the same stamp as so many of the men that we've been kept down so long as we have;
and now, what about me taking up with Larry Witcom?"

"Well, it's well known what Larry is."

"Well, what is he?"

"You ask him about Mrs Park's divorce case."

"I hope you don't think your old man is a saint, do you? As big a fool as you are, you're surely
not fool enough for that, are you? Perhaps he isn't as clean a potato as Larry if it was all
brought out."

"But he's a married man this many a year, with a married daughter, and his young days are lived
down long ago."

"Well, so would Larry be married many a year and have things lived down in time, and not as
many to live down either as your husband has at present, if things are true; for all your everlasting
shepherding he gets off the chain sometimes."

Hoity-toity! this was putting a fuse to gunpowder.

"You hussy! What have you got to say about my husband? Prove it, and I'd make short work of
him; and if it's lies, I'll bring you into court for it."

"I'll leave it for you to prove; you're one of those who thinks every yarn entertaining till
they touch yourself."

"Two to one on Carry every time when me grandma's the umpire," grinned Andrew round the corner.

"Carry, you've had enough to say. I forbid any more in my house," said grandma, rising to order.

"I declare this a drawn fight," said Andrew.

"You can have it out with Mrs Bray in her own house if you want, but no more of it here," continued
grandma.

"Don't you dare come to my house," said Mrs Bray.

"Your house! no fear; I never associate with scandal-mongers," contemptuously retorted Carry,
as Mrs Bray made a precipitate departure, emitting something about a hussy who didn't know
her place as she went.

"I'm surprised at you!" said grandma. "Her tongue does run on a little sometimes, but you ought
to remember she's old enough to be your mother, and girls do owe somethink to women with families."

"And women with families and homes ought to remember they owe something to girls that aren't
settled, because they haven't got a man caught yet to keep them."

"Well, this ain't my quarrel, an' don't you bring it up to me again. A woman that's rared a
family, and two of them like I have done, has enough with her own dissensions."

It was rather a sullen party at tea that evening, so Dawn's return from Sydney immediately
after, with her cheeks radiant from travel in the quick evening express, and herself brimming
over with her day's adventures, formed a welcome relief.

"I had a great time coming home," said she. "Mr Ernest and Dora Eweword both went to Sydney
this morning, and Mr Ernest and I raced into a carriage to escape Dora, and we did; and he
must have asked the guard, for he found our carriage, but he had only a second-class ticket,
and wouldn't be let in."

"And how came you to be in a first-class carriage?" inquired grandma. "I can't stand that;
there's expense enough as it is, and your betters travel second."

"It wasn't my fault. Mr Ernest bought the tickets like a gentleman should (it says in the etiquette
book), and I couldn't fight with him there and then,--you're always telling me to be more genteel."

"But I don't want strangers paying anything for my granddaughter."

"You needn't mind in this instance," I interposed.

"Mr Ernest probably wished to be gentlemanly to Dawn because she has been so good to me." Once
more I saw the little derisive smile flit across the exquisite face, but she said--

"Yes; he said that you're looking so well it must be our nursing, and that he will try and
get grandma to take him in if he falls ill."

"I wonder if he's going to get took bad--love-sick--like the other blokes," said Andrew.

Dawn cast a murderous glance at him, and covered the remark by making a bustle in sitting to
her tea, and in retailing minute details of her singing lesson.

We retired early, and she produced from the basket in which she carried her music a most pretentious
box of sweets and various society newspapers.

"Mr Ernest said you might like some of these, and I was to have a share because I carried them
home, though he got the 'bus and brought me to the door, so I hadn't to walk a step."

"Good boy! What did he talk about to-day?"

"I asked him about all the actresses he has seen. He's going to give me the autographed photos
he has of them. You wouldn't think he'd like to part with them, but he says he's tired of them
all now--they're nearly all married, and are back numbers. Actresses are only thought of for
a little while, he says."

"That is the natural order of things, and applies to others as well as actresses. Pretty young
girls are not pretty for long. They should see to it that they are plucked by the right fingers
while their bloom is attractive. The old order falls ill-fittingly on some, but is fair in
the main,--we each have our fleeting hour."

"Yes; but where is there a desirable plucker?" said the practical girl. "There are scarcely
any good matches and the few there are have so many running after them that I wouldn't give
'em the satisfaction of thinking I wanted them too."

True, good matches are few. In these luxurious times the generality of girls' ideas of a good
match being very advanced--in short, a man of sufficient wealth to keep them in petted idleness.
There can be no shade of reproach on women for this ambition, it is but one outcome of the
evolution of civilisation, and is merely a species of common-sense on their part; for the ordinary
routine of marriage, as instanced by the testimony of thousands of women ranked among the comfortably
and happily married, is so trying that girls do well to try for the most comfortable berths
ere putting their heads in the noose.

"And Dora, where was he all this time?" I asked.

"Oh, he brought Ada Grosvenor home; thought that would spite me. She was in town too, and you
should just hear her after this. The silly rabbit can't open her mouth but she tells you what
this man did and that one said to her, when all the time it's nothing but some ordinary courtesy
they ought to extend to even black gins."

EIGHTEEN.

THE FOUNDATION OF THE POULTRY INDUSTRY.

Peace was restored in the Clay household through my interviewing Carry and offering to teach
her music and allow her the use of my piano if she would do some of Dawn's work for two days
during every second week. The next irritation arose from the male portion of the family.

Now, we had all been so vigorously on political entertainment bent, that no one had given a
thought to Uncle Jake and his doings or political opinions, or whether he had any, but it transpired,
though a "mere man," he had been pursuing his course with as much attention to electioneering
technique as the most emancipated woman among us.

On the afternoon following Carry's little difference with Mrs Bray, Ada Grosvenor called to
invite us to accompany her to hear Olliver Henderson, the ministerial candidate, who was to
address the women at the hall first, and the men at Jimmeny's pub. afterwards, and we all went.
Next morning at breakfast, when we had set to work upon the "dosed" porridge, Andrew again
catechised his grandma concerning the casting of her vote.

"I'm goin' for young Walker of course; as for that other feller!" said she cholericly, "I was
that sick of his stuttering and muttering, an' holdin' his meetin's at Jimmeny's (we all know
that that means free drinks), an' after waitin' all my life fer it I'm not goin' to cast the
only vote that maybe I'll live to have, for a feller that buys his votes with grog. There's
precious little to choose between them. They only want the glory of bein' in parliament for
theirselves, and for the time bein' have rose a flute about the country goin' to the dogs and
them bein' the people to save it; but once the election's over that's all we'll hear of 'em,
and though they'd lick our boots now, they're so glad to know us, they'd forget all about us
then. The one who can blow the loudest will get in, and as it must be one it might as well
be this feller that can talk, an' could keep up his end of the stick in parliament, as there's
no doubt this talkin' an' blow has become such a great trade one has to go to the wall without it."

"Well, I'm going for Walker too, because he's something to look at," said Carry.

"The women was goin' to put in clean men an' do strokes," sneered Uncle Jake, "an' it turns
out they'd vote for the best-lookin' man,--nice state of affairs that is."

"Ah! it's all very fine for a man to buck w'en a thing treads on his own toes; it would be
thought a terrible thing for a woman to vote for a good-lookin' man an' pass over merit, but
that's what's been done to women all the time. The good-lookin' ones got all the honours, whether
they deserved 'em or not, and those complainin' agen this was jeered at an' called 'Shrieking
sisters,' but it's a different tune now."

"Uncle, darling, who are you going to vote for?" inquired Andrew.

"For Henderson, of course, an' I reckon all the women here with votes ought, too."

"And why, pray?" asked grandma, her eyes flashing a challenge, while her faithful guardswomen,
Carry and Dawn, suspended work to see how the argument ended.

"For the look of the thing to start with. It don't look well to see the wimmen of the family
goin' agen the men."

"No, it don't look like Nature as men make believe it ought to be, for once to see a woman
have a opinion of her own, and not the man just telling that his opinion wuz hers too, without
knowing anythink about it, an' women having to hold their tongue for peace' sake because they
wasn't in a position to help theirselves. An' if it seems so dreadful that way, you better
come over to our side, as there's more of us than you, an' majority ought to rule."

"What did you do at your meeting last night, uncle?" inquired Dawn.

"Old Hollis is head of the committee, an' he says the first thing for all the committee men
to do was to see the women of the men goin' for Henderson was the same way," he replied.

"Oh, an' so you thought you could come the Czar on us, did you? an' the Government, accordin'
to Hollis's make out, is a fool to give women a vote; like in your case instead of giving me
an' Carry a vote each, it ought to have give you three."

"Oh, Mr Sorrel!" said I, "what a joke! Was he really so ignorant as that; surely he was joking
too?"

Uncle Jake had sufficient wit to take this opportunity of changing his tactics.

"No," he said, "some people is terrible narrer; for my part I always believe in wimmen holdin'
their own opinion."

"So long as they didn't run contrary to yours," said grandma with a sniff. "There's heaps more
like you. Women can always think as much as they like, an' they could get up on a platform
an' talk till they bust, as long as they didn't want the world to be made no better, an' they
wouldn't be thought unwomanly. It's soon as a woman wants any practical good done that she
is considered a unwomanly creature."

Uncle Jake was outdone and relapsed into silence.

"An' that's just what I would have expected of old Hollis," continued grandma, who seemed to
have a knowledge of people's doings rivalling that necessary to an efficient police officer.
"I'll tell you what he is," and the old dame directed her remarks to me. "He is the old chap
Mrs Bray was sayin' ain't goin' to vote this time because the women has got one and the monkeys
will be havin' one next. Just what the likes of him would say! He's a old crawler whose wife
does all the work while he walks around an' tells how he killed the bear, an' that's the sort
of man who's always to be heard sayin' woman is a inferior animal that ought to be kep' on
a chain as he thinks fit. You'll never hear the kind of man like Bray (who is a man an' keeps
his wife like a princess) sayin' that sort of thing--it's only the old Hollises and such. I'll
tell you what old Hollis is. He got out of work here a few years back, w'en things was terrible
dull, an' so his wife had to keep him, and with a child for every year they had been married.
She rared chickens an' plucked 'em and sold 'em around the town, an' went without necessaries
w'en she was nursin' to keep him in tobacco. That's the kind of man he is, if you want to know.
Of course, bein' a animal twice her superior, he had to go about suckin' a pipe, and of course
he couldn't deny hisself anythink. What do you think of that?"

"That its pathos lies in its commonness."

"I reckon you didn't hear of him goin' out an' pluckin' the fowls then an' sayin', 'Wife, a
woman's place w'en she has a young family is in the house.' No fear! She worked at this poultry
business, an' it was surprisin' how she got on--worked it up to a big poultry farm, till he
took a hand in doin' a little of the work an' takin' all the credit. Now they live by it altogether;
an' he was interviewed by the papers a little while ago, and it was blew about the reward of
enterprise,--how he had started from nothink, an' it never said a word how she started an'
rared his babies an' done it all, an' does most now, while he walks about to illustrate what
a superior bein' he is. That's the way with all the poultry industry. Women was the pioneers
in it, an' now it's worked up to be payin', men has took it over and think they have done a
stroke. Not so far back a man would consider hisself disgraced that knew one kind of fowls
from another,--he would be thought a old molly-coddle. The women tried to keep a few hens an'
the men always tried to kill them, an' said they'd ruin the place, an' at the same time they
hunt them was always cryin' out an' gruntin' that there wasn't enough eggs to eat, an' why
didn't the hens lay the same as they used w'en they was boys. They expected the women to rare
them on nothink, or at odd moments, the same way as they expect them to do everythink else.
Now, even the swells is gone hen mad, an' the papers are full of poultry bein' a great industry,
but it was women started it."

Upon strolling abroad that morning we found a huge placard bearing the advice--"Vote for Olliver
Henderson, M.L.A., the Local Candidate," decorating the post of the gateway through which we
gained the highroad.

Uncle Jake was credited with this erection, so Andrew made himself absent at a time when there
was need of his presence, and thereby caused a deal of friction in the vicinity of grandma,
but with the result that by midday Uncle Jake's placard was covered by another, reading: "Vote
for Leslie Walker, the Opposition Candidate, and Save the Country!"

At three o'clock this was obscured by a reappearance of Henderson's advertisement, which was
the cause of Uncle Jake being too late to catch that evening's train with a load of oranges
he had been set to pack. At the risk of leaving the milking late, Andrew was setting out to
once more eclipse this by Walker's poster, only that grandma adjudicated regarding the matter.

"Jake, you have one side of the gate, an' Andrew you take the other. Put up your papers side
by side and that will be a good advertisement of liberty of opinion; an' Jake, if you haven't
got sense to stick to this at your time of life, I'm sorry for you; and if you haven't Andrew
at yours, I'll have to knock it into you with a strap,--now mind! An' if you don't get your
work done you'll go to no more meetin's."

"Right O! I'll vote for me grandma every time," responded Andrew.

This proved an effective threat, for political meetings had become the joy of life to the electors
of Noonoon. As a tallow candle if placed near can obscure the light of the moon, so the approaching
election lying at the door shut out all other worldly doings. The Russo-Japanese war became
a movement of no moment; the season, the price of lemons and oranges, the doings of Mrs Tinker,
the inability of the municipal council to make the roads good, and all other happenings, became
tame by comparison with politics. They were discussed with unabating interest all day and every
day, and by everyone upon all occasions. Even the children battled out differences regarding
their respective candidates on the way home from school, rival committees worked with unflagging
energy, and all buildings and fences were plastered with opposing placards. This pitch of enthusiasm
was reached long before the sitting parliament had dissolved or a polling day had been fixed;
for this State election was contested with unprecedented energy all over the country, but in
no electorate was it more vigorously and, to its credit, more good-humouredly fought than in
the fertile old valley of Noonoon.

It was the only chance the unfortunate electors had of bullying the lordly M.P.'s and would-be
M.P.'s, who, once elected, would fatten on the parliamentary screw and pickings without showing
any return, and right eagerly the electors took their present opportunity.

Zest was added to the contest by both the contestants being wealthy men, and with youth as
well as means to carry it out on expensive lines. They were equally independent of parliament
as a means of living, and being men of leisure were merely anxious for office to raise them
from the rank and file of nonentityism. Independent means are a great advantage to a member
of parliament. The penniless man elected on sheer merit, to whom the country could look for
good things, becomes dependent upon politics for a living, is often handicapped by a family
who are loth to leave the society and comfort to which their bread-winner's official position
has raised them, and he, held by his affection, is ready to sacrifice all convictions and principle
to remain in power. To this man politics becomes a desperate gamble, and the country's interests
can go to the dogs so long as he can ensure re-election.

Another advantage in the Noonoon candidates which should have silenced the pessimists, who
averred there were no good clean men to enter parliament, was that these men were both such
exemplary citizens, morally, physically, and socially, that it seemed a sheer waste of goodness
that only one could be elected.

The newspapers went politically mad, and those not any hysterical country rags, but the big
metropolitan dailies, and there was one thing to be noted in regard to their statements that
seriously needed rectifying. What is the purpose of the great dailies but to keep the people
correctly informed as to the progress of public affairs and events of the community at large?
Most of the people are too hard at work to forage information for themselves, or even to be
thoroughly cognisant of that collected in the newspapers, and therefore parliamentary candidates,
if not correct in their figures and statements, should be publicly arraigned for perjury. The
Ministerialists gave one set of figures dealing with national financial statistics and the
Oppositionists gave widely different. How was an elector to act when the platform of the former
contained nothing but a few false statements and glowing promises, and the policy of the latter
was only a few counter-acting war-whoops, and there was no honesty, common-sense, or matter-of-fact
business in the campaign from end to end?

In this connection that remote rag, 'The Noonoon Advertiser,' shone as a reproach to its great
contemporaries. Not by their grandeur and acclamations shall they be judged, but by the quality
of their fruits.

No bias or spleen seemed to sway the mind of this journal to one side or the other. It recognised
itself as a newspaper, not as a political tout for this party or that, and so kept its head
cool and its honour bright and shining.

Three days after Leslie Walker's second speech he sent up a woman advocate to address the ladies
and start the business of house-to-house canvassing. This plenipotentiary, a person of rather
plethoric appearance, made herself extremely popular by assuring every second vote-lady she
met that she was sure she (the vote-lady) was intended by nature for a public speaker. This
worked without a hitch until the votresses began to tell each other what the great speaker
had said, when it naturally followed that Mrs Dash, though she thought that Mrs Speaker had
been discerning to discover this latent oratorical talent in herself, immediately had the effervescence
taken out of her self-complacence on finding that that stupid Mrs Blank had been assured of
equal ability.

Then the Ministerialists discovered Mrs Speaker's place of abode in Sydney, and averred her
children ran about so untended as to be undistinguishable from aboriginals, and that her housekeeping
was sending her husband to perdition; and such is the texture of human nature unearthed at
political crises, that some even went so far as to suggest that she was a weakness of Walker's,
and sneered at the ladies' candidate who had to be "wet-nursed" in his campaign by women speakers.
Henderson, they averred, had not to do this, but fought his own battle.

"Yes," said Grandma Clay; "he mightn't be wet-nursed, but he is bottled, brandy-bottled, by
the men." And this could not be denied.

The women rallied round Walker because he was a temperance candidate, whereas the tag-rag rolled
up en masse for Henderson, who shouted free drinks and carried the publican's flag.

Each candidate, while praising his opponent, wound up with but--and after that conjunction
spoke most damningly of his policy.

Underneath the ostensible war-whoops many private and personal cross-fires were at work to
intensify the contest. The people on the land quite naturally had a grudge against the railway
folk, who only had to work eight hours per day for more than a farmer could make in sixteen;
further, the perquisites of the railway employés were inconceivable. By an unwritten but nevertheless
imperative etiquette, farmers had to render them tribute in the form of a portion of whatever
fruit or vegetables were consigned at Noonoon, and the townspeople also had little to say in
favour of them, averring they were a floating population who had no interest in the welfare
of the town in which they resided, were bad customers--patronising the publicans more than
the storekeepers, and by means of their connection with the railway were able to buy their
meat and other necessaries where they listed--where it was cheapest, and frequently this was
otherwhere than Noonoon, and yet they were in such numbers that they could rule the political
market.

Then the men on the Ministerial side were nearly gangrene with disgust, because, as one put
it, "nearly all Walker's men were women," and rallied round him thick and strong, and with
a thoroughness and energy worthy of their recent emancipation.

Dawn's next day for Sydney fell on another night when Leslie Walker was speaking, but she and
I did not attend this meeting, the family being represented on this occasion by Andrew, and
we went to bed and discussed the Sydney trip while waiting for his return.

Ernest Breslaw, it appeared, had again had urgent business in Sydney that day.

"Dawn," I said, "this is somewhat suspicious. Are you sure you are not flirting with Ernest?
I can't have his wings singed; I think too much of him, and shall have to warn him that you
are booked for 'Dora' Eweword." This was said experimentally, for to do Dawn justice, though
she had every temptation, she had nothing of the flirt in her composition.

"I can't go and say to him, 'Don't you fall in love with me,'" said Dawn contentiously.

"Are you sure he has never in any way attempted to pay you a lover's attentions?"

"Well, it's this way," she said confidentially--"you won't think me conceited if I tell you
everything straight? There have been two or three men in love with me, and I was always able
to see it straight away, long before they knew; but with Ernest, sometimes he seems to be like
they were, and then I'm afraid he's not,--at least not afraid--I don't care a hang, only I
wonder does he think he can flirt with me, when he is so nice and just waltzes round the subject
without coming up to it?"

Ah! ha! In that afraid, which she sought to recover, the young lady betrayed that her affections
were in danger of leaving her and betaking themselves to a new ruler, and this sudden inability
to see through another's state of mind towards her was a further sign that they were not secure.

We are very clear of vision as to the affection tendered us, so long as we remain unmoved,
but once our feelings are stirred, their palpitating fears so smear our sight that it becomes
unreliable.

"Oh, well, it does not matter to you," I said; "you are not likely to think of him, he's so
unattractive, but I must take care that he does not grow fond of you. If I see any danger of
it, I'll tell him something about you that will nip his affections in the bud. You won't mind
me doing that--just some little thing that won't hurt you, but will save him unnecessary pain?"
And to this she replied with seeming indifference--

"I wish you'd tell Dora Eweword something that would shoo him off that he'd never come back,
and then I would have seen the last of him, which would be a treat."

After this we were silent, and I thought she had gone to sleep, for there was no sound until
Andrew came tumbling up the stairs leading from his room.

"I say!" he called, "have you got any more of that toothache stuff from the dentist?"

"Come along," I answered, "I'll put some in for you."

"I think it's the oranges that's doin' it, I eat nearly eight dozen to-day."

"Enough to give you the pip; you ought to slack off a little," I said, extending him the courtesy
of his own vernacular.

"I bet I'd vote for Henderson after all if I could," he continued, in referring to the meeting,
"only I'll gammon I wouldn't just to nark Uncle Jake. Henderson is the men's man, that other
bloke belongs to wimmen. You should have heard 'em to-night! The fellers behind was tip-top,
and made such a noise at last that Walker could only talk to the wimmen in the front. We gave
him slops because he gets wimmen up to speak for him, an' we can't give them gyp. One man asked
him was he in favour of ring-barkin' thistles, and another wanted to know was he in favour
of puttin' a tax on caterpillars. He thinks no end of himself, because he's one of these Johnnies
the wimmen always runs after," gravely explained Andrew, aged sixteen.

"We cock-a-doodled and pip-pipped till you couldn't hear your ears. Half couldn't get in, they
was climbed up an' hangin' in the windows--little girls too along with the boys. I suppose
now that they're as near got a vote as we have, they'll be poked everywhere just the same as
if they had as good a right as us," said the boy with the despondence of one to whom all is lost.

"It's a terrible thing they can't be made stay at home out of all the fun like boys think they
ought to be. No mistake the woman having a vote is a terrible nark to the men--almost too much
for 'em to bear," said Dawn, whom I had thought asleep.

"I reckon I'm goin' to every meetin', they're all right fun," continued Andrew. "At the both
committee room they're givin' out tickets with the men's names on, an' whoever likes can get
them an' wear 'em in their hats. Me an' Jack Bray went to this Johnny Walker's rooms and gammoned
we was for him, an' got a dozen tickets, an' when we got outside tore 'em to smithereens; that's
what we'll do all the time."

After this Andrew disappeared down the stairs, spilling grease, and being admonished by Dawn
as he went as the clumsiest creature she had ever seen.

Silence reigned between us for some time, and in listening to the trains I had forgotten the
girl till her voice came across the room.

"I say, don't tell that Ernest anything not nice about me, will you? I'll take care not to
flirt with him, and I wouldn't like him to think me not nice. I wouldn't care about any one
else a scrap, but he's such a great friend of yours, and as I hope to be with you a lot, it
would be awkward; and you know he has said nothing, it might only be my conceit to think he's
going the way of other men. He took me to afternoon tea to-day at such a lovely place,--he
said he wanted to be good to your friends, that's why he is nice to me. I don't suppose he
ever thinks of me at all any other way," she said with the despondence of love.

So this had been chasing sleep from Beauty's eyes, as such trifles have a knack of doing!

"Very likely," I said complacently, and smiled to myself. The only thing to be discovered now
was if the young athlete's emotions were at the same ebb, and then what was there against plain
sailing to the happy port where honeymoons are spent?

Fortune favours the persevering, and next afternoon an opportunity occurred for procuring the
desired knowledge.

Ernest and Ada Grosvenor came in together, and to the casual observer seemed much engrossed
with each other, but I noticed that Dawn could not speak or move, but a pair of quick dark
eyes caught every detail. So far so good, but it was necessary for Dawn to think the prize
just a little farther out of reach than it was to make it attractive to her disposition, so
I set about attaining this end by a very simple method.

Miss Grosvenor had called to invite us to a meeting she had convened, to listen to a public
address by a lady who was going to head a deputation to Walker afterwards, and we had decided
to go. Mrs Bray's husband also dropped in, and to my surprise proved not the hen-pecked nonentity
one would expect after hearing his wife's aggressive diatribes, but a stalwart man of six feet,
with a comely face bespeaking solid determination in every line. And when one comes to think
of it, it is not the big blustering man or woman that rules, but the quiet, apparently inane
specimens that look so meek that they are held up as models of propriety and gentleness. Miss
Grosvenor immediately nailed him for her meeting, and politics being the only subject discussed,
he aired his particular bug. This was his disgust at the top-heaviness of the Labour party's
demands, and the railway people's easy times as compared with that of the farmer.

"I believe," said he, "in every man, if he can, working only eight hours a-day--though I have
to work sixteen myself for precious little return, but these fellows are running the country
to blazes. The rules of supply and demand must sway the labour or any other market all the
world over, and they'll have to see that and haul in their sails."

"Who are you going to vote for?" inquired Andrew.

"I'm goin' for Henderson, and the missus for Walker."

"It's a wonder you don't compel Mrs Bray to vote for your man."

"No fear; I'm pleased she's taken the opposite chap, just to illustrate my opinion on what
liberty of opinion should be; but I won't deny," he concluded, with a humorous smile, "that
I mightn't be so pleased with her going against me if I was set on either of them, but as it
is neither are worth a vote, so that I'm pretty well sitting on a rail myself."

"I thought your first announcement almost too liberal to be true," laughed Miss Grosvenor.

"No, I will say that Mr Bray is a man does treat his women proper, and give 'em liberty," said
grandma.

"An' a nice way they use it," sniffed Carry sotto voce.

As we set out to the meeting Miss Grosvenor mentioned to me that she was endeavouring to find
suitable speakers to address her association, and asked did I know of any one. Here was an
opening for a thrust in the game of parry I was setting on foot between Dawn and Ernest Breslaw.

"Ask my friend Mr Ernest to deliver an address: 'Women in Politics,'" I said, "that is his
particular subject. He is a most fluent speaker, and loves speaking in public, nothing will
delight him more."

"I'll ask him at once," said she.

This was as foundationless a fairy-tale as was ever spun, for Ernest could not say two words
in public upon any occasion. That he was usually tendered a dinner and was called upon to make
a speech, he considered the drawback of wresting any athletic honours. Whether women were in
politics or the wash-house was a sociological abstrusity beyond his line of thought, and not
though it cost him all his fortune to refuse could he have decently addressed any association
even on beloved sporting matters. Hence his consternation when Miss Grosvenor approached him.
At first he was nonplussed, and next thing, taking it as a joke on my part, was highly amused.
Miss Grosvenor, on her side, thought he was joking, with the result that there was the liveliest
and most laughable conversation between them.

Dawn did not know the reason of it. She could only see that Ernest and Miss Grosvenor were
engrossed, and at first curious, a little later she was annoyed with the former.

"I think," she whispered to me, "it's Mr Ernest you'll have to see doesn't flirt with every
girl he comes across."

"Perhaps he isn't flirting," I coolly replied.

"Not now, perhaps," she said pointedly; "perhaps he's in earnest with one and practises with
others."

Arrived at the hall, we found the women swarming around Walker like bees.

"Good Lord! Look what Les. has let himself in for," laughed Ernest; "I wouldn't stand in his
shoes for a tenner."

"Go on! Surely you too are partial to ladies?"

"Yes; but--"

"But there must be reason in everythink," I quoted. He laughed.

"Yes; and reason in this sort of thing to suit my taste would be a small medium. But what a
fine old sport the old dame Clay would have made--no danger of her not standing up to a mauling
or baulking at any of her fences, eh?"

Dawn would not look at Ernest after the meeting and deputation came to an end, but walked home
with "Dora" Eweword, laughing and talking in ostentatious enjoyment; while Ernest and the Grosvenor
girl were none the less entertained.

"'Pon my soul, I couldn't make a speech to save my life," he reiterated. "My friend only laid
you on for a lark, did you not?" he said, turning to me, whom he gallantly insisted upon supporting
on his arm--that splendid arm in which the muscles could expand till they were like iron bands.

"Don't you believe him, Miss Grosvenor," I replied; "he's a born orator, but is unaccountably
lazy and vain, and only wants to be pressed; insist upon his speaking, he's longing to do so."
And then his merry protesting laugh, and the girl's equally happy, rang out on the crisp starlight
air, as they went over and over the same ground.

As we neared Clay's I suggested that he should see Miss Grosvenor home, while I attached myself
to Dawn and "Dora"; and I invited him to come and sing some songs with us afterwards, for the
night was yet young.

To this he agreed, and supposed to be with the other young couple, I slipped behind, and could
hear their conversation as they progressed.

"You're not struck on that red-headed mug, are you?" said Eweword, for general though political
talk had become, there was still another branch of politics more vitally interesting to some
of the electors.

"I'm not the style to be struck on a fellow that doesn't care for me."

"But he does!"

"Looks like it, doesn't it?" she said sarcastically.

"Yes, it does, or what would he be hanging around here so long for?"

"Perhaps to see Ada Grosvenor; I suppose she'd have him, red hair and all."

"Pooh! he never goes there; but he comes to your place though, too deuced often for my pleasure."

"He comes to see the boarder--he's a great friend of hers."

"Humph! that's all in my eye. He'd be a long time coming to see her if you weren't there, if
she was twice as great a friend. What sort of an old party is she? Must have some means."

"Oh, lovely!"

"I suppose the red-headed mug thinks so too, as she is touting for him."

"For him and Ada Grosvenor."

"Have it that way if you like it, but you know what I mean all right."

"I don't."

"Oh, don't you! I say, Dawn, just stop out here a moment will you? I want to tell you something
else, I mean."

"Oh, tell it to me some other time," said she, "it's too beastly cold to stay out another minute.
Come and tell it to me while we are having supper round the fire."

"I'd have a pretty show of telling it there. I don't want it put in the 'Noonoon Advertiser,'
but that's what I'll have to do if you won't give me a chance. If you keep pretending you don't
get my letters, I'll write all that I put in them to your grandma, and tell her to tell you,"
he said jokingly; but the girl took him up shortly.

"If you dare do that," said she, aroused from her indifference, "I'd never speak to you again
the longest day I live, so you needn't think you'll get over me that way. You'd better tell
Uncle Jake and Andrew too while you're about it, and Dora Cowper might be vexed if you don't
tell her."

"Well, I bet you'd listen to what the red-headed mug said quick enough," replied "Dora" Eweword
in an injured tone.

"The red-headed mug, as you call him--and his hair isn't much redder than yours, and is twice
as nice," she retaliated, "he would be a gentleman anyhow, and not a bear with a scalded head."

By this time they had reached the gate, and Dawn was carelessly inviting him to enter, but
he declined in rather a crestfallen tone.

"Better invite red-head, not me, if you won't listen to what I say, and pretend you never received
my letters."

"Thank you for the good advice. I hope he'll accept my invitation, because he is always pleasant
and agreeable," she retorted.

NINETEEN.

AN OPPORTUNELY INOPPORTUNE DOUCHE.

It was just as well that "Dora" Eweword had been too chopfallen to come in, for we found the
place in what grandma termed "a uproar."

As we had gone out Mrs Bray had arrived to relate her speculations in regard to Mrs Rooney-Molyneux. 

Travóse battle in place of equality for all, with large and multiple voices, fighting bravely, it hung
life and freedom from both sides of the victory of that day. If ours becomes impractical due
to be on earth, and have so far retreat, his death was true, or what is deemed to be worse captives
being held by those Barbarians offended. The Turks had also just as much danger, because the natives
of those provinces Christian to where they were, seeing them broken up, they ran no doubt satisfying
them a just revenge. In the opener, by the multitude and infinite number of Barbarians ran great
risk, and the victory was doubtful, but gained new courage and vigor, because the Captains repeated
a second time the name of Aragon, and since then seems that this voice instilled fear in enemies,
and in our effort ever seen. And as for both sides had been reached under the blows of cutlasses
and swords, in which had much of an advantage for our defensive weapons, then began to tip the
winning on our part. The Catalans ran in anger due rigor and used in wars against the infidels,
that that day in the Turks all was despair, offering to death with such determination and gallantry,
which was not known in any of these samples of wanting to pay, or because it was resolved to
die as people of value, or because they despaired to find in the winners mercy. While his arms were
always able to hurt debian so, and when fainted, her face and eyes showed that the body was the
loser, not profit. Ours have made them happy not abandon the field, we continued with the same rigor
that fought in battle. Night and got tired of killing In order to reach. Were up in the morning
with weapons in hand. Sunrise, found the greatness of the victory, great silences in all those
campaigns and stained the earth in blood everywhere piles of dead men and horses, which says
Montaner, who arrived to number six thousand horsemen, and twelve thousand foot, and that day
were so many mentioned facts in arms, could barely see over, and this does not refer expensive one
in particular, to the great injury and detriment of our times, for such feats deserve perpetual
memory.

It was with such brio our people after this victory, and so lost to the greatest fear difficulties
voices calling on them to go into the mountains and come into the Armenia, because they wanted
to get the last end of the Roman Empire, and recover in a short time
which in many Emperors lost their centuries, but the Captains tuned
this determination so bold, measured, as was right, his forces with
the difficulty of the enterprise.

CHAPTER XVIII.

With the coming of winter to the back of our Maritime Provinces.

Rebelanse the Magnesia, Roger Ponele site, but Andronico's call him
up, and reaches to the mouth Strait to the whole army.

They stopped eight days in the place of victory, and few to catch
the prey.

Continued their way to a place called Gate iron Montaner, term, and stripe Natoli and Armenia. He stopped
three days Roger doubtful the road would take, but finally seeing about Fall, and being so
in the provinces which had not been properly secured to her devotion, was resolved with the
advice of his captains, to return to the City of Ania, and spend the winter there, until it
was time to take the field, because that year had broken four times the enemy, and recovered
many provinces. Nicephore says that by missing the spies and practical people on earth left to
move forward, because without it were something very dangerous, and Captain Roger was so clever,
not reckless adventures. Ricks the days are very short, because it seemed that the withdrawal
was because of some fear, walking for places that had already recognized the ADI. In this recall
carry the Historians Greeks to ours of insolent and cruel, they did more damage in the Cities
of Asia The Turkish enemies of Christianity, and though I think there were some injuries, but
not as much as they expensive. Because time than ours were in Asia, was very little, and he always
engaged him to overcome and achieve signal victories of his enemies, where they found infinite
gain of the dams that made that were so, that some Sometimes the left, or they can not be carried
by, or by estimating them in a little, but I am for real what the Greeks say, but not so they
can remove the glory of his victories. What Army has seen give an example of moderation and temperance,
and more that he gets very their pay later? There is no doubt that a bad friend disciplined army,
is so harmful in a Province as the enemy, and so the Greeks the most entertaining stories in
the complaints this damage, strongly encouraging more than a historian should.

Came the army retreated to Magnesia, where Roger had most of their wealth and treasure, when they
got notice of Magnesia, as Ataliote his captain had rebelled; and
slaughtered the garrison of the Catalans that Roger had left, and
their treasures alzádose that had collected within the City.

The case went this way.

Magnesia was a strong and big city, and between both hard to win if the spirits of the natives
were united.

Roger came to pass that went badly advised them to ask, that when he came back they had to point
him money to help horses and people. Using them abhorrence of the Alans, who were inside, they
had to the Catalans, and moved by greed to become owners of the treasures that Roger had collected,
resolved to take arms and rebel. Ataliote statement his counsel, and approved by him, it seemed
put into execution, because as soon as the city lived free, feared to come in subjection. Citizens
were many armed, Alan also, and barns with plenty of Wheat, guns, money and other military
equipment and finally getting between faith and oath avail themselves of one another, the sword
became part of the Catalans who were in part seized, and put them in prisons very safe. This
is confirmed in their rebellion; because there is nothing to further ensure such an event, when
the atrocity off hope forgiveness. This fact does not seem to regard it Pachymeres Greek worthy
of reproach, before it approves and praises, that clearly must have more than history apology
yours.

Known rebellion of Magnesia by Roger, then wanted to punish her, and so with part of the Alans
who followed him, the Romeos, and all the Catalans went to lay siege
to the city ​​to punish, as deserved as ugly evil.

He brought with remarkable diligence machines and tricks to beat it, and to a few days gave
a general assault, which went unchallenged the our with great scorn and derision of the enclosures,
and to Roger with insulting words you insult. Roger wanted to break their lines, but they were
warned that prevented output the effect. The siege was continued, and at the same time they
came a dispatch from Andronico in which he charged them, that site dajado Magnesia, Miguel came to join
her son, to aid the Prince of Bulgaria brother Roger, because his uncle had raised it with the state,
and was about to be lost if not quickly had recourse to relief. I have very certain, that
this uprising was faked by Andronico, to give any reason seeming to take ours in Asia, who
always feared that many accredited victories would rise with it, refusing obedience and to force
more to Roger, put before the danger of his brother. A living subject such damages Captain
who serves Princes tyrants or small, in whom the suspicion and distrust always have first place
in their councils. Blessed is he who obeys and serves large and powerful monarch, whose greatness
can not fit born offense increased its vassal. To get by some of these movements, it makes me
very difficult to see that is not Nicephore of them, rather than because it gives ours did
not go ahead with their victories, which was the big fear of Andronico, and no doubt this was the
one who stopped the good fortune of our own, and not preventing restore all the ancient cities
and provinces of the Roman Empire. These are Nicephore own words: "Roger, after having gathered
in council, decided to replicate the Emperor, and see if he could win both to Magnesia, but
resistance from within so was that Roger had to withdraw with a loss of reputation and people,
and although he to try to live with them, just that he return the money, he could not reach.
For this reason and because the Alans were fired, Roger tried to get off the site, assuming apology
to the emperor sent him, but many were not without a hidden feeling out of those provinces without
punishing the Magneositas, and leave what they had gained and rigor to the fury of the Barbarians,
who then had to fill seeing them defenseless. No among ordinary soldiers missing some secret
talks with the mood altering for new moves, saying, What mattered to us having beaten many
times, if we takes the prize hands? Is this why we left our land and country gift; to have
the reward of the risk of life so often pay a little risky? "After a Province won us out of it,
and reward us for so many services a dangerous new war? Captains and other people of polish
though disguised, and on the outside were undeceived, they felt bad about this game, and most
had believed born Andronico's misgivings, that the movements of Bulgaria. Came our Ania to the
city, and from there took the road to the mouth of the Strait for all those Maritime provinces,
always sailing navy in the step they marched by land. With this order reached the Cape that is
in the strait, opposite Gallipoli, which calls Montaner Aner mouth. They informed the Emperor
there as they were about to board, waiting New orders to crack. Andronico was thrilled that
he had obeyed the Catalans, letters and praised by their punctuality in fulfilling their orders,
they were told by the movements Bulgaria with only the fame that came the army of the Catalans
were quieted. " This Montaner's what it says, But Pachymeres seems more truly concerned that
the occasion was Andronico in this second release to say that everything was quiet, because Miguel
Paeologo his son to persuasion of the Greeks offended, and soldiers from other nations who had
in his service, and lower in number and value to the Catalans feared he wrote to his Andronico
father who did not want Roger to join his army, fearing civil war, and the insolence of the
Catalans would not suffer if the same freedom that Asia were to come and live, and Gregory Alan was
head of the offended him by the death of his son, and when she saw Roger and his men, would occasion
of some great break. This Andronico thought it would be wise to seek some means for this to
be composed; and control and his sister Irene, and his niece Mary, who were then to Gallipoli,
and to try with Roger, who dajando most of his army in Asia, with only a thousand men chosen pass
to join Michael. Roger looked at his case with most leading captains, and to Everyone seemed
dangerous thing to divide his forces, and suspected then that this was not beginning of a great
betrayal, and so Roger said to his mother, he was not enough to persuade a spirit to the Catalans,
who were divided, from thousand of them to Greece, and that the others were in Asia. The mother
returned to the Emperor, and gave reason for what had happened to his son. This ended the war
in Asia in just over two years short of time as mentioned facts, enough to illustrate a century.

CHAPTER XIX.

Staying the army in the Chersonese Thracia, and Roger part to Constantinople.

The army embarked on the galleys and ships of its navy, and following the order which had Emperor
Andronicus, crossed the strait, and landed. All the people in Thracia Chersonese, taking as main
square and head of their seats to Gallipoli City in the time taken by the most important part of
the Province, set almost at the mouth of the Strait looking north. Estiéndese the Thracian Chersonese
isthmus or seventy miles in length, and six in width, and at least
three parts.

On the East sea bathed Strait, named after the ancient Hellespont,
which divides Europe from Asia.

Cinel the Aegean Sea and the sunset and noon, and the Sea Propontis
Setentrion called in our times of Marmora.

It was in the past this abode of the Cruseos isthmus, and there the party continues with the
Mainland Lisimachia, famous for its founder Lysimachus who gave the name, and sixth, known for
the love of two unfortunate lovers. But at the time of the Catalans and Aragonese came to this province
just seemed the ruins; only in the former had a castle called Lisimachia Ejamille, and many villages
and to small towns where they stayed while our passing the rigors of winter taking, as I have
said, at Gallipoli, Mid City population, by main strength and imprisonment for the common defense.
Saved himself the same order in accommodations than the year before was held in Cape Artacio,
apparently leaving everyone satisfied and tranquil, it was Roger four galleys to Constantinople,
with infantry part of the choicest to be seen Emperor Andronicus, and to congratulate him
for the restoration of many provinces Asia, and receive grants and honors together due to so
many victories. Came to the city including with the General ours, and universal admiration
of all received and accompanied them to the Palace, where Emperor demonstrations ever used words
and honored him, and Roger after giving relationship entire state of the provinces released,
asked for money for general pagamento. Repondió the Emperor with great performance, saying that
it was very Debed not delay to pay its value so well earned, and he was the wage would send
later. But although this response was on the outside which Roger could want, Emperor remained
very surly this lawsuit, because after such large prey, and spoil Provinces delicious conquered,
then ask a small allowance, was a sign of insatiable greed, and hardly any power could satisfy
the Greek Empire. What reaches the soldier on the prize of victory serves more to taste than
to the need and so much largesse is distributed in games, comrades, and at banquets, but the
pay estimates always something that is given in the price of his work, and his blood, and comes with
it to your needs, and feels much it is denied, or dilate, especially when the Prince spent with
great length in a vain ostentation of his Majesty, and is failing to this obligation, in which it
is founded and supported the true greatness of the Kings.

CHAPTER XX.

Berenguer de Entenza with new relief comes to Constantinople, where he was given the post of
Grand Duke, and Roger offered to Caesar's.

Roger was in the city several days release asking the Emperor and the ministers of his estate
who maliciously concealed the money, and they placed difficulties and hindrances in ways and
means which were given for collection: art of always used that handle Princes ranch. Although this
arrest attended by the Emperor.

In this way arrived at Gallipoli Berenguer de Entenza, a man known
for their blood and courage, called with a great body of the Emperor
Andronicus, although he had already offered Berenguer you come to
serve the second time he sent an embassy particular, offering him
mercedes very advantaged.

Berenguer requested Mecina left of this second appeal, and came to Greece with some galleys,
and five armed vessels, and in them a thousand Almugavares, and three
hundred horsemen, all people very lucid.

He stopped ten days at Gallipoli, where he was received with remarkable taste of the whole nation,
to know what Roger ordered, whom he sent two horses to give him notice of its arrival.
 It must not make
any difference."

"Difference between you and me?--nothing short of an earthquake could do that," he replied.

"I mean with Dawn. It must not make any difference with her. It was only a freak."

"Certainly; I would be a long time retaliating upon a lady, no matter what she did to me; but
when--when--" (he could not bring himself to name it, it struck him as so disgraceful)--"she
intimates to me, as plainly as was done to-night, that she disapproves of my presence in her
house, well, a fellow would want pole-axing if he hadn't pride to take a hint like that."

"She did not mean anything. She will be more hurt than you are."

"Mean anything! Had it been a joke I could have managed to endure it, or an accident about
which she would have worried, I would have been amused, but it was deliberate; and if it had
been clean water--but ugh! it was greasy slop-water, to make it as bad as it could be; and
if a man had done it--"

The muscles of his arm expanded under my interested touch as he made a fist of the strong brown
hand.

"But being a girl I can only put up with it," he said with the helplessness of the athlete
in dealing with such a delinquent.

"Did you hear what she said too? Great Scott! it is not as though I had done her any harm!
I merely came here to see a friend, and made myself agreeable because you said she was good
to you; and, dear me!" His voice broke with the fervour of his perturbation. He had been wounded
to the core of his manly amour propre; and to state that he was not more than twenty-five,
gives a better idea of his state of mind than could any amount of laborious diagnosis.

"What can I have done?" he further ejaculated. "Can some one have told her falsely that I'm
a cad in any way? She might have waited until she proved it. I would not have believed bad
any one spoken badly of her." (Here an inadvertent confession of the growing affection he felt
for her.) "Even if I were deserving of such ignominy, it was none of her business. I only came
to see you,--she had nothing to do with me."

Then I took hold of this splendidly muscular young creature wounded to the quick. I determinedly
usurped a mother's privilege in regard to the situation, and glancing back over my barren life
I would that I had been mother of just such a son. What a kingdom 'twould have been; and, in
the order of things, being forced to surrender him to another's keeping, I could not have chosen
a better or more suitable than Dawn. Entering his principality to reign as queen, while his
manhood was yet an unsacked stronghold, she was of the character and determination to steer
him in the way of uprightness to the end.

Wistfulness upsprung as I reviewed my empty life, but rude reality suddenly uprose and obliterated
ideality. It put on the scroll a picture of motherhood, and mother-love wantonly squandered,
trodden in the mire, and, instead of being recognised as a kingdom, treated only as a weakness,
and traded upon to enslave women. I turned with a sigh, and we walked round a corner of the
garden where, in one recent instance, appallingly common, a poor frail woman had crept out
in the dead of night to pay alone the penalty of a crime incurred by two--one foolish and weak,
the other murderously selfishly a coward.

I addressed Ernest Breslaw regarding the painful effect this tragedy had produced on the mind
of Dawn, and how it had been further overstrung by the later one, and concluded--

"Had I expressed my inward feelings in outward actions at Dawn's age, and being armed with
a dish of water, to have thrown it on the nearest individual would have been a very mild ebullition;
but I set my teeth against outward expression and let it fester in my heart, while the beauty
of Dawn's disposition is that her feelings all come out. She has disgraced herself by making
outward demonstration of what many inwardly feel; but understanding what I have put before
you, you must not hold the girl responsible for her action."

With masculine simplicity he was unable to comprehend the complexity of feminine emotions engendered
by the exigencies of the more artificial and suppressed conditions of life as forced upon women.

"I understand about old Rooney; I feel as disgusted with him as any one does, but I am not
going to emulate him. I'd jolly well cut my throat first; and if I could lay my hand on the
snake at the root of the drowning case, I'd make one to roast him alive! What made Miss Dawn
confound me with that sort?"

"She doesn't for an instant do so. On the contrary, she would be the first to repudiate such
a suggestion."

"Good Lord! then why did she throw that stuff on me? It was only fit for a criminal."

"Can you not grasp that she was irritated beyond endurance with the unwholesomeness of the
whole system of life in relation to women, and that for the moment you appeared as one of the
army of oppressors?"

"But that isn't fair! I know enough of women--some women--to make one shudder with repulsion;
but there would be no sense or justice in venting my disgust on you or the other good ones,"
he contended.

"Quite so; but our moral laws are such that some issues are more repulsive to a woman than
a man, and you must admit there are heavy arguments could be brought in extenuation of Dawn's
attitude of mind when the water slipped out of her hand."

"There's no doubt women do have to swallow a lot," he said.

"You don't feel so angry on account of the impetuous Dawn's act now, do you?"

"It doesn't look so bad in the teeth of your argument, and if she would only say something
to explain, I won't mind; but otherwise I'll have sense to make myself scarce in this neighbourhood."

"I'm afraid her vanity will be too wounded for her to give in."

"I'll make it as easy for her as I can; but, good Lord! I can't go to her and apologise because
she threw dirty water on me."

"Well, I'll bid you good-night. I must run in to Dawn. I expect she is sobbing her heart out
by this, and biting her pretty curled lips to relieve her feelings,--her lips that were meant
for kisses, not cruel usage."

"Good heavens! Do you really think she'll feel like that?" he asked in astonishment.

"I'm certain."

"But I can't see why--she might have had reason had I been the aggressor."

"If you had hurt her she would not feel half so bad. You would be a hopeless booby if you could
not understand that."

"Really, now, if I thought she would take it that way, it would make all the difference in
the world. But had she desired to despatch me, half that energy of insult would do," he said,
drawing up, while hardness crept into his voice, but it softened again as he concluded--

"I wouldn't like her to be upset about it, though, if she didn't quite mean it."

"Well, you can be sure that in regard to you she was very far from meaning it, and that she
will be dreadfully upset about it; so think of what I've said, and come and see me in the morning."

Now that he had grown calm, he was shivering with the cold, so I bade him run home.

On returning to the house I found Andrew the solitary watcher of his charge, who, covered by
an old cloak, was snoring on the kitchen sofa.

"Dear me, where are they all?"

"In bed; and look at his nibbs there. I reckon I took a wrinkle from Dawn as how to manage
him. Soon as every one's back was turned he began actin' the goat again an' makin' for home,
an' I thought here goes, I don't care a hang if all the others roused on me like blazes, so
long as grandma don't,--she's the only one makes me sit up,--so I flung water on him, not warm
water but real cold. It took seven years' growth out of him, an' then I gave him a drink of
hot coffee, an' undressed him, an' he was jolly glad to lay down there."

"Why, you'll give the man a cold!"

"No jolly fear. I took his clothes off. I've got 'em dryin' here. I couldn't find any of my
gear, an' wasn't game to ask Uncle Jake, so I clapped him into a night-dress of grandma's.
Look! he's got his hand out. I reckon the frill looks all so gay, don't you? I bet grandma
will rouse, but I'll have a little peace with him now an' chance the ducks," said the resourceful
warder, whose charge really looked so absurd that I was provoked to laughter.

"How did you manage him? Was he tractable?"

"He soon dropped that there was no good in bein' nothing else. He spluttered something about
me disgracin' him, because something on his crest said he was brave or something; but I told
him I didn't care a hang if he had a crest the size of a cockatoo or was as bald as Uncle Jake,
that I was full of him actin' the goat, an' that finished him."

"Enough too," I laughed, as I bade the Australian lad, with the very Australian estimate of
the unimportance of some things sacred to English minds, the Australian parting salute--

"So long!"

TWENTY.

"ALAS! HOW EASILY THINGS GO WRONG!"

On ascending to my room I did not, as expected, find Dawn sobbing, but she had her face so
determinedly turned away that I refrained from remark. I was none the worse for the diverting
incidents of the evening, because the excitement of them had come from without instead of within.
The rush of the trains soon became a far-away sound, and the light that flashed from their
engine-doors as they climbed the first zig of the mountain, and which could be seen from my
bed, had been shut from my sight by the fogs of approaching sleep, when I was aroused by heart-broken
sobbing from the bed by the opposite wall.

After a while I got out of bed, bent on an attempt to comfort.

"Dawn, what is it?"

"I'm sorry I waked you, I thought you were sound asleep," she said, pulling in with a violent
effort but speedily breaking into renewed sobs.

"I was thinking of poor little Mrs Rooney-Molyneux, and how my mother died," said the girl,
rolling over and burying her lovely head in her tear-drenched pillow. "I can't help thinking
about the sadness and cruelty of life to women."

I felt certain that a matter less deep and lying farther from the core of being was perturbing
her more, but as she chose to ignore it, I did likewise.

"Well, we must not dwell too sadly on that for which we are not responsible, and women are
privileged in being able to repay the cost of their being."

"Yes, I always remember that, and often shudder to think I might have been a man, with their
greater possibilities of cowardliness and selfish cruelty, as illustrated by old Rooney and
Miss Flipp's destroyer."

Not a word concerning her action to Ernest. Thought of it stung too much for mention, so there
was nothing to do but comfort her till she fell asleep and await from Ernest the next turn
of events bearing on the situation.

The next turn of events in the Clay household bore down upon us next morning after breakfast
when grandma came home, having left the first-born of Rooney-Molyneux comfortably asleep in
the swaddling clothes which had contained Dawn at the date when she had been "a little winjin'
thing," with whom everything had disagreed, and which garments were lent to the new-born babe
until grandma could provide him with others. The hale old dame was not too fatigued to be in
a state of lively ire, and opened fire upon her circle with--

"I met old Hollis on the way home, an' do you believe, he says to me, 'Well, Mrs Clay, so I
believe you've took to rabbit ketchin' in your old days.' It was like his cheek, the same as
w'en he said the monkeys would be havin' a vote next. Rabbit ketchin' indeed! No wonder women
has got sense at last to make the birth-rate decline, when you see cases like that, and even
the people that go to help them out of the fix--an' that out of kindness, not for no reward
nor pleasure--is demeaned to their face an' called rabbit ketchers, if you please! I reckon
all women ought to be compelled to be rabbit ketchers for a time, an' it would be such a eye-opener
to them that if there wasn't some alterations made in the tone of the whole business they would
all strike so there'd be no need of rabbit ketchin', as some call it, to make things more disagreeabler;
and that's what has been goin' on lately in a underhand way, but some people," concluded the
intelligent old lady with her customary choler, coming to a full stop ere recapitulating the
misdoings of these unmentionable members of society.

"Rabbit ketching," as midwifery is contemptuously termed in the vernacular, does require a
status, and those who have need of it merit some consideration. Civilisation, stretching up
to recognise that every child is a portion of State wealth, may presently make some movement
to recognise maternity as a business or office needing time and strength, not as a mere passing
detail thrown in among mountains of other slavery.

During the whole forenoon I busied myself with the construction of garments for the new arrival
in this vale of woe, and at the same time was on the alert for the commanded appearance of
Ernest Breslaw. Instead of himself he sent as messenger a well-spoken lad, who presented Mr
Ernest's compliments, and hoped that I was not feeling any ill effects from my unusual exertion
during the previous evening.

I sent a request, per return, that he should call upon me during the afternoon, but he did
not regard it. The next being Dawn's day for Sydney, I waited for this event to hatch some
progress in the case, but upon her return she had no favours to share with me or merry tale
to tell of being taken to afternoon tea by Ernest.

Eweword figured in this account, and so prominently as to suggest that her talk of the fun
she had had with him was a little forced, so on the following morning I took it upon myself
to call upon the backward knight in his own castle. Unmooring one of the boats, I rowed with
great caution obliquely across the stream till, reaching the desired pier, I tethered my craft
and ascended among an orange-grove laden with its golden fruit, and between the rattling canes
of the vineyard dismantled by winter, till I reached the house where at present my young friend
sojourned, and I was thankful that bleached as well as unfaded locks having their own peculiar
privileges, I was able to make this call with propriety.

The young gentleman was in, and without delay appeared to the beautiful lady's self-directed
and appointed ambassadress.

"I suppose I may pay you a visit," I said with a smile as he seated me in the drawing-room
which we had to ourselves. "As you didn't seem to care whether I were dead or alive I have
come over to practically illustrate that I'm still above ground. Why did you not come to see me?"

Ernest reddened and fidgeted, and said haltingly--

"You know if you had been ill I would have been the first to go to you, but I knew you were
quite well, and I've been so busy," he finished lamely.

"Now, you know that I know that you have been idle--quite unendurably idle," I retorted, a
remark he received in embarrassed silence, which endured till I broke it with--

"Well, I suppose you are waiting for me to divulge the real object of my pilgrimage, and that
is to know why you haven't kept your agreement about making that little mistake as easy as
you could for Miss Dawn. She's fretting herself pale about it."

Ernest stood up, his colour flaming into his tanned cheeks till they were as bright as his
locks, while he made as though to speak once or twice, but hesitated, and at length exclaimed--

"This is not fair--you must, you have no reason to bother--you," and there he foundered. Ernest
could neither lie, snub, nor evade. He was totally devoid of all the attributes of a smart
politician.

"Have you not sufficient faith in my regard for you to trust my motive in thus apparently seeking
to pry into your private life?" I asked.

"You know I think more of you than any one, and I'll tell you the whole thing," he replied,
taking a seat beside me.

"You have made a mistake in assuming that Miss Clay, or whatever her real name might be (his
indifference was well assumed), did not fully mean her action, and I was a fool to believe
you when I had more than sufficient proof to the contrary. Yesterday morning I happened to
go to Sydney in the same train as she did, and as I happened--entirely by chance and quite
unexpectedly--to meet her on the platform, I lifted my hat as usual to make it easy for her,
and a nice fool I made of myself. She didn't merely pretend not to see me, but hurried by me
in contempt and came back with that Eweword, who glared at me as though I were a tramp who
had attempted to molest her. I am sure you could not expect me to go any farther than that,
and I only did that because you call her a friend of yours. Perhaps Eweword doesn't do things
that necessitate the throwing of dirty water on him. It was rather an uncalled-for thing to
do to any one. Perhaps the old dame doesn't allow her boarders to have visitors, and that is
the polite way they have of informing one to the contrary."

The sky looked rather murky. I said nothing, having nothing ready to say.

"Oh, by the way, I'm leaving here to-morrow for Adelaide, where I am to play in some inter-colonial
football matches against the New Zealanders. Is there anything I could do for you over there?"
he said, as though having dismissed the other unworthy trifle from his mind.

"Going to run away because a girl, half accidentally and half out of nervous irritation, threw
a little water on you!"

There I had said what I really thought, and half expected the snub which, according to the
rules of tact, I deserved for my divergence therefrom, but it did not come; he was a man of
the field, and in this type of encounter had not a chance against one of my perceptions.

He laughed forcedly. "That would be something to turn tail for, wouldn't it?"

"But are you not doing so? If a beautiful girl did such a thing to me it would only make me
the more set to woo her to graciousness," I said.

"Perhaps so, if she were some girl you specially considered, but in the case of a passing stranger
that I may never meet again, it would not be worth wasting time, especially as her action was
so uncalled for and unwomanly."

"But you are sure to meet her again if you continue our friendship, as I hope to have her with
me, and that is why I'm taking the trouble to thus interfere in what does not apparently concern
either you or me very much. I don't consider Dawn as a passing stranger. I think her especially
honest and especially beautiful, and it worries me to think she has thus erred. Her action
was unwomanly, if you like, but peculiarly feminine, with the unavoidable hysterical femininity
engendered in women by their subjected environment. Are you quite sure you consider Dawn merely
a passing stranger not worth consideration?" I asked, looking him fair in the eyes; and the
quick lowering of them and the tightening of his mouth satisfied me that he could not truthfully
answer in the affirmative.

"It is a matter of what she considers me," he said.

"Oh, well," I said indifferently, now that I had gained my point, "it doesn't matter to me,
but I'll be sorry to lose your company, and I thought you were taking an interest in Leslie's
candidature, and we could have enjoyed it together."

"So I do."

"Well, come back as soon as you get these matches played, and we'll have some good times together
again, and I'll keep the reprehensible Dawn out of the way; and anyhow, remember she didn't
throw cold water on you, and that's something."

"Very well, I'll be back in about three weeks' time to see how Les. gets on. Polling-day hasn't
been fixed yet. I'd like to see it through now I've started."

"Of course," said I, considering it a good move that he should disappear for a short time,
and after this he rowed me on the Noonoon till Clay's dinner-bell sounded and I went up to eat.

That evening "Dora" Eweword came in to tea and remained afterwards. He informed us that the
red-headed chap who had been loafing around Kelman's had gone to Europe.

"Has he? Did he tell you?" interestedly inquired Andrew.

"He mentioned that he would leave for South Australia by the express this evening," I replied,
but did not add that his going to Europe was a little stretched.

Dawn was quiet. Her merry impudence did not enliven the company that night, and after tea,
when Eweword caught her alone for a few moments as I was leaving the room, he said--

"So you cleared the red-headed mug out after all. Andrew says it was alright. You won't listen
to me, but you haven't chucked the wash-up water on me yet, that's one thing." His complacence
was very pronounced. To his surprise Dawn made no reply, but biting her lip to keep back her
tears, walked out of the room, and in the dark of the passage smote her dimpled palms together,
exclaiming--

"Would to heaven I had thrown the water over this galoot instead of him," and the thermometer
of "Dora's" self-satisfaction fell considerably when she did not appear again that evening.

That night, when the waning moon got far enough on her westward way to surmount the old house
on the knoll beside the Noonoon and cast its shadow in the deep clear water, the silver beams
strayed through a little window facing the great ranges, and found the features of a beautiful
sleeper disfigured by weeping; but youth's rest was sound despite the tear-stains, and the
old moon smiled at such ephemeral sorrow. The night wind coming down the gorges with the river
sighed along the valley as the moon remembered all the faces which, though tearless under her
nocturnal inspection, yet were pale from the inward sobs, only giving outward evidence in bleaching
locks and shadowy eyes. Even within sound of the engines roaring down the spur, many of the
little night-wrapped houses, hard set upon the plain, had inmates kept from sleep by deeper
sorrows than Dawn had ever known.

The first fortnight of Ernest's absence, believed by his doubting young lady to be final, was
a stirring time in Noonoon, and particularly full at Clay's. Jam-making was the star item on
the latter's domestic bill. Baskets and baskets of golden oranges and paler lemons and shaddocks
were converted into jam and marmalade, and ranged on the shelves of the already replete storehouse,
in readiness to tempt the summer palate of the week-end boarders which should appear when the
days stretched out again. We were occupied in this business to such an extent that the sight
of oranges became a weariness, and Andrew averred that the very name of marmalade gave him the pip.

At night we enjoyed the diversion of the meetings, and talk and gossip of them made conversation
for the days. The previously mentioned political addresses were but mild fanfares by comparison
with the flamboyance of the gasconading now in progress, and in its reports of these bursts
of oratory the 'Noonoon Advertiser' gave further evidence of its broad-minded liberality.

"Mrs Gas Ranter," it reported, "addressed a packed meeting in the Citizens' Hall last night,
and proved herself the best public speaker who has been heard in Noonoon during the present
campaign," &c. It recognised worth, and gamely gave the palm to the deserving, irrespective
of party or sex,--did not so much as insert the narrow quibble that she was the best for a woman.

Among other incidents, the lady canvassers called at Clay's and received a piece of grandma's mind.

"Thanks; I don't want no one to tell me how to vote. I've rared two or three families and gave
a hand with more, and have intelligence the same as others, and at my time of my life don't
want no one to tell me my business. I reckon I could tell a good many others how to vote."

The pity of it was that it was immaterial how any electors cast their vote. Neither party had
a sensible grip of affairs, and besides, love of country in a patriotic way is not a trait
engendered in Australians. In politics, as in private life, all is selfishness. The city people
thought only of building a greater Sydney, the residents of Noonoon and other little towns
had mind for nothing but their own small centre,--all seeing no farther than their noses, or
that what directly benefited their little want might not be good for the country at large,
and that legislature must, to be successful, better the living conditions of the masses, not
merely of one class or section. Then city men, unacquainted with the practical working of the
land, could not possibly handle the land question effectively, and, moreover, a man might understand
how to manage the coastal district and remain at sea regarding the great areas west of the
watershed.

Another big mistake lay in over representation of the city and the under representation of
the man on the land. The producer should be the first care, and while he is woefully disregarded
and ill-considered a country cannot thrive. The reason of this state of affairs was the division
of electorates on a population basis. This meant that a city electorate covered a very small
area, and that practically all its wants were attended by the municipality, so that the city
member had leisure to ply the trade of merchant, doctor, or barrister within a few minutes
of the house of parliament; whereas the country member, to become acquainted with the vast
area he represented and the requirements of its inhabitants and attend parliamentary sittings,
had no time left to be anything but a member of parliament, precariously depending upon re-election
for a livelihood.

Dawn threw herself into the contest with great enthusiasm, and also industriously pursued her
vocal studies, but for her was exceptionally subdued and inclined to be cross on the smallest
provocation. She had become so engrossed in political meetings that "Dora" Eweword, who was
continually at Clay's since the retreat of Ernest, one day remonstrated with her. She had made
a political meeting the excuse for declining to go rowing with him, whereupon he remarked--

"Oh, leave 'em to the old maids, Dawn. You'll grow into a scarecrow that would frighten any
man away if you hang on to politics much more."

"Well, if it would frighten some men away, I'd go in for them twice as much," snapped the girl.
"I suppose you admire the style of girls who are going around now saying, after some straightforward
women have said what we all feel and got the vote, 'Oh, I don't care for the vote. Let men
rule; they are the stronger vessel. Politics don't belong to women,' and so on. You'd think
me a sweet little womanly dear if I croaked like that; but you keep your brightest eye on that
sort of a squarker, and for all her noise about being content with her rights, you'll see that
she takes more than her share of the good of the reforms that other women have worked for."

"Oh Lord!" good-temperedly giggled "Dora," for home truths that would be considered sheer spleen
from a plain girl are taken as fine fun when uttered by a girl as physically attractive as Dawn.

During the second week of the footballer's absence, who should appear to lend a hand on the
side of Leslie Walker but Mr Pornsch, uncle of the late Miss Flipp. He arrived with the callousness
worthy of a certain department of man's character, and addressed a meeting with as much pomp
and self-confidence and talk of bettering the morals of the people, as though he had been an
Ellice Hopkins. He had the further effrontery to visit Clay's and feign crocodile grief for
the deplorable fate of his niece. He protested his shame and horror, together with a desire
for revenge, so loudly that I resolved that he should not be disappointed, that the dead girl
should be in a slight measure avenged, and he should not only know but feel it.

"I ain't got me voting paper. Me an' Carry will go up for 'em to-morrer," said grandma one
evening from her arm-chair near the fireplace.

There had been the usual meeting, and Ada Grosvenor and others had called in to discuss it.

"Why, didn't the police deliver yours?" inquired Miss Grosvenor.

"No, we was missed somehow."

"Easy to see Danby wasn't on the racket of deliverin' electors' rights, or you would have had
two or three apiece," Andrew chipped in.

"I'm going for Walker straight," announced grandma. "He's temperance at all events, and that
is somethink w'en there ain't any common-sense in any of them."

"If I had twenty votes I wouldn't give one to that Walker," said Andrew. "All the women are
after him because they think he's good-lookin', an' he's got bandy legs. They clap him like
fury, and look round like as they'd eat any one that goes to ask him a question. They seem
to reckon he's an angel that oughtn't to be asked nothink he can't answer. I believe they'd
all kiss him an' marry him if they could. I hate him. Vote for Henderson, he wouldn't give
the women a vote, and only men are workin' on his committee."

"Oh my, what's this!" exclaimed Dawn. The seventeen galleys of Genoese did not dare back
to Constantinople, although the lack of people need and could force them, but fearing Andronico's
indignation, and the insolence of the Greeks, and were led to the narrow Back from Italy, bringing
them to Demetrius. The other seven galleys governed by Mandriole, back to Constantinople warned to
Andronico's event.

Came the voice of the danger that was Gallipoli to our army, which had been withdrawn to their garrisons,
after victory was achieved against Massagatae, and fearing to lose before being rescued, he quickened
his way, and came two days after the Genoese sailed up. Was the universal feeling at all,
for not coming in time to punish so much unfairness in the Genoese, as breaking the peace with
them, being absent and undertake defended its women's prison. Further enhance this feeling to see them
hurt and battered; but the taste of victory then stripped and held together contentment and
joy den both of victories.

CHAPTER XLV.

The Turks and Turkish Greeks are in the service of the Catalans.

While Catalan and Greek arms dealing in his own ruin, the Turks free fear that the army could give both
of them, if the accord and joined prosigueran war, returned to follow the course of his victories,
and occupy the provinces of Asia, not army taking oppose them at the stream of his prosperous
fortune. Because, according to Pachymeres account, the year twenty-four of the Kingdom of Andronicus,
the son of Christ 1300 and six deserted the Greeks around the point of Asia and this was three
years after ours came out of it, from which we gather the damage was clearly the division and
discord of the Catalans, and Greeks, for her missed opportunity to press pride that nation
in its principles, which at this time could have been done with little difficulty. The Turks
absolute lords of Asia wanted to put his foot in Europe, and delay their victorious arms in
the West. Stopped a few years the fulfillment of your desire lack of ships that pass that they were
on the other side of the Straits of Gallipoli. Using of the present occasion of seeing the
Catalans enemies of the Greeks, sent to Gallipoli their messengers to entice the minds of our people,
and if wanting to admit any treatment venirles to serve. Showed no desplacia them. The Catalans
with this by sending messengers an armed frigate, and with it came the Captain with ten Jiménez
colleagues to conclude the deal. Offered on behalf of his people come up with eight hundred
horses, and two thousand foot, and provide oath of allegiance to the Catalan general. The conditions
were, to notify them quarter to a part where they could live together with their families,
that they were given prey half of what was given to the Catalan soldier, always wishing to return
to his land could without violence, they should be made to stop them. Ear proposed by the Turkish
by common consent were admitted to their service offering to meet the conditions oath. With this
answer Jimelix returned to pass the Straits, and to prevent people while the army arrived and
soon after embarked on ships and galleys that could be Together, they reach Gallipoli two thousand
foot, eight horses and Turks, with their children, and women, and property. This was the fact
that the Catalans convicted of ancient and modern very bad writers, go to the Barbarian Europe
infidel enemies of the Christian name, sullying the glory of that expedition with such wicked
and detestable advice, as it was open the way to Europe so graceful and powerful nation. Unjust
charge which was undoubtedly these writers put the Catalans, yielding to the passion or the neglect
of non- inadvertently, unawares in a serious writer. Wicked advice was the Catalans, and pernicious
for freedom, if the Turks who admitted in his favor were higher in strength, because then they
could freely enter your sect, and do damage to his faith, and press together the freedom of
those who were called. Relief and aid should not be larger than themselves might, for not going
the way of a Scipio in Spain, where thirty thousand Celtiberians with notable perfidy forsook
him, and he and bottom could not stop. Where Livio pulled an important document. The Turks did not come
to three thousand in number, in arms, in value, lower to the Catalans, so that one could not
assume that the Turks do more of what ordered the Catalans, and still are Christians, it is
certain that their faith can not be jeopardized, Barbarians looking as those below the offended.
In communities of the Kingdom of Valencia, at the time of our grandfathers, who served faithfully
as were the Moors, and use them against Christians was taken by lawful and necessary. Not otherwise
served the Turks to the Catalans in Greece, over the self-defense excuse any that this mistake could
have been made. Republic was not tight war nor prince foreign or civil, which has ceased to call
for your help people of religion and customs different, and often ushered in the most powerful
kingdoms, to get rid of this damage, without realizing that they could be defeated by debris,
or victors. The danger neighbor saves with ever greater, and since there any way of dying, good
is dilated, and choose the most remote, and may cease to be. If the Catalans do what they did and
Narses Stilicone, the one they had called the Goths, the other to the Lombards for the ruin
of Italy, and the Empire, could not be more offended by the pens and tongues of history, some
are called ungodly, sacrilegious, other pirates, the common plague people, men without God, without
law, without reason, and everything is born because his PLEASE CALL Turks, who understood this
more, it offends some Christian ears, but well abvertido and find out, no reason to blame him
slightly, when more to offend with words so broken, and full of slander and insults. Thousand
miles from their homeland, their captains, treacherously killed and ambassadors, what suffering
does not irritate?. What means by violent not seek out their shame?. When you have erred,
it could moderate the opinion of the writer. Also find any difficulty about the time when the
Turks came, because Nicephore says that the Catalans were called before the battle of APROS, when
it emerged that Miguel came upon them, and they alone were five hundred that passed. This narrative
of Nicephore I have it as false, because Montaner in number, and time to disagree, and as an
eyewitness should be given more credit, but Catalan, and offended, because the history speech
refers many things against their nation, and condemns evil deeds freely, and without respect,
and not to believe that he who speaks the truth in their harm, do not tell as it did not matter
to his glory as the Turks came four years earlier or later. Zurita following relationship Berenguer
de Entenza, Nicéphore also differs, for says the same Berenguer de Entenza called the Turks after
they learned of the death of their ambassadors, and who came to Gallipoli thousand and five
hundred horse, and he took the oath of fidelity. This also I have it as false, because it
seems impossible that in a fortnight Berenguer stopped at Gallipoli, after being declared an
enemy of the Empire, call Turks who were in Asia, and will consult with them and came together
fifteen hundred horses, and shipped, and should come to swear fidelity are things that although
did with great alacrity, could not be completed in fifteen days. The truth of time who spent
the Turks, clearly refers Montaner, who was four years after this day, and to have this is certainly
not a difficulty or impossibility, as any, and very large in what it says Nicephore, and Zurita,
and so on facts Turks just continue to Montana, because I have for more real, and who spoke
and attended in all these conferences.

At the same time the Turkish Greeks who served the emperor, declared by rebels, because imitation
of the Catalans want to be paid any salary or get help with weapons, could not, being few, stand
on its own, sent word to the Catalans that if they admit in their
company.

Responded that they should come safe, that they would use as with the Turks, and with more advantages
for being Christians. They came up to a thousand good horses, and took the oath of allegiance
under the same concerts that did the Turks. They stood at order of Juan Perez de Caldas. 'm
The emperor Andronicus without foreign military, after the Alans, and Turkish Greeks moved away
from their service so short of soldiers could freely undertake any large company would in
the provinces of his empire, regardless who objects. These forces lost the emperor, will magnify
the Rocafort, for Turks, and Turkish Greeks also respected him and recognized by the supreme
head, and with this assurance of being so obeyed, and loved them faded, and became odious to
many, by the insolence and absolute power with which he ruled, and sent it.

CHAPTER XLVI.

Berenguer de Entenza events after his imprisonment until his release and his return to Gallipoli.

With the new relief Turkish Greeks, and Turks and many other Spanish
who went before hidden in parts of the empire, as merchants, or under
the name of another nation, ours is increased because credited with
many victories, all sought his friendship; moved some with the desire
for revenge, most with their greed, they wanted to participate in
wealth that they had gained public fame in the war.

At the same time Berenguer de Entenza, after long and laborious prison,
and had wandered in vain by the courts of certain princes of Europe,
to give warmth to the company of Catalans, arrived at Gallipoli with
a ship, and with five hundred men, people all estimation.

Disturbed the peace and quiet of the Army his coming, by the powers of government between Rocafort
and he arose, but before writing the causes and reasons that one and the others had to compete,
it will be good to have a long relationship of what happened to Berenguer, since they set until his
return.

After Ramon Montaner by order of the captains of the army tried, without being able to conclude
Berenguer rescue, when the Genoese galleys passed through the straits of Gallipoli Back from
Trebizond, was taken by some thing that would be coming to Genoa Berenguer to release, and
would give him satisfaction, being captain of a vassal king friend. It did not happen as they
thought, rather a republic if authorized so ugly, or punish your general, and giving freedom,
and amendment of the lost to Berenguer, because if the offense not punished, was approved. Came to the
knowledge of the Catalans of Thracia and Berenguer was held in Genoa
in prisons unworthy of his person, without trying to give freedom,
and determined of apparently common, and that weapons could not try,
begging the Don King of Aragon Jaime interpose his authority with
the people of that republic.

To this were appointed three ambassadors, they were, Vergua Garcia, Perez de Arbe, Pedro Roldan,
both of the council of twelve. They arrived in Catalonia, and gave the king his embassy, ​​proposed
the biggest insult to them had been undertaken under Berenguer faith and word to the captain,
and continue it wrong extending their freedom, that all came from them has made to his feet, waiting
his clemency, that the troubles forgotten past, would give the remedy to agree, and good office
at your request. They gave particular relation of his victories, and state that were his things,
and the Empire, whose dominion was offered if it helped with heat by their provinces to be defenseless,
exposed to the rigor and weapons of that first rush; and would have one of its largest heraldry, power
at the expense of their work, and his blood, increase their crown, and to obey his name in
the most remote and away from Europe and Asia. The king answered that give pleasure to so good subjects,
he put his authority and weapons when it mattered, and more for Berenguer de Entenza, one of
its greatest servants. As to give Relief was excused by Don King parecelle that his brother
Frederic of Sicily suited him plus given: that he was away, and hardly could be given hands,
nor provide when they won the provinces of Greece to Catalonia, but acknowledged and considered
his will. This preliminary, the three ambassadors went to Rome to represent the pope the occasion
they had to reduce the empire of Greece to their obedience, if the Catalans of Thracia were
given a big help, as it would if Fadrique Don grant him the investiture to pass with him to the
company, with a Legacy of Holy Sete, and publish Crusade in favor of those who would go, or help
with charities. The pope is not well received embassy, ​​and seemed put on treatment because
of his had great difficulties and increased was the fear that the house of Aragon is not enlarged
by the medium. Jaime King to fulfill his promise, he sent his embassy to the Republic of Genoa,
meaning great feeling that he had been in prison for Berenguer, one of his greatest and most major
vassals, and that this had been in contravention of the treaties of peace, whether through
wisdom of the lordship had been executed, asking them to Berenguer had in freedom, and give
him satisfaction the damage he had received, because otherwise they could not fail to make any
demonstration. The Republic decided to come as the king commanded, and replied that he had felt
the Eduardo de Oria his general did Berenguer de Entenza, and that was vile people riot of the
galleys which caused such great excess, it could not address by the captain, and general executed
until after, that they would certainly free to Berenguer, and named Eleven people that came
together with the deputies that the king would send in the place where was served, to discuss
the amendment which was to give Berenguer for damages had received in the loss of the galleys,
and in prison. With this fine firm is fired the ambassadors of the king and the republic sent
others to their part represent the same feeling alive and had had all of it, that his general,
but without fault had offended his subjects, and then sent it emerged that bring him to Berenguer to
Sicily, and restitution of what he had taken. Suplicáronle then they send Catalan them to leave the
company of the Turks, and depart from those provinces where they had most of their treatment,
and that trailed by the damage, and incursions continually they made for them. The king offered
to send it to send if Berenguer was satisfied. Berenguer Since his release, the king sent his
deputies to Mompeller, place which indicated to treat the reward, and the Republic sent Señoriño
Donzelli, Melia Salvagio, Gabriel Sauro, Rogelio de Savigniano, Antonio de Guillelmis, Manuel Cigala,
Jacomio Bachonio, Raffo Doria, Opisino Capsario, Guideri Pignolo, and Jorge de Bonifacio, all his
advice. These were those who joined the deputies of the king, and after many meetings and
agreements to be proposed, never by the lordship came good to them, finding in all cases of
doubt to conclude, and ultimately broke up the meeting without giving any satisfaction by the lordship,
and this seemed so polite response that gave the king, was so that this means the king sent the
Catalans not to innovate the way kinds of weapons against Genoese, as friends offer to fix it.
Berenguer desperate to reach the reward, he was the king of France and the Pope to try the
second time helper for the Catalonian Thracia, proposing the same as the three ambassadors proposed,
but neither the king nor the Pope, wanted to have them and he had to return to Catalonia where
he sold part of his estate, and gathered five hundred men, all known people and talk, and embarked
on a large ship, left the quiet of his house to go to the friends who had at Gallipoli.

CHAPTER XLVII.

Berenguer de Entenza, and Berenguer de Rocafort divided the army in Vanda.

Berenguer de Entenza after he arrived at Gallipoli wanted to exercise his office as I used before be
arrested, and Berenguer de Rocafort said and things were bartered, and did not have that rule
more than you brought, others already had general. Alterarónse the minds, seeking all that they
should be the supreme authority. Friends and relatives of either of them, with words broken and
full of arrogance threats that their weapons would do obey. Divided the army with this competition,
everything was messed up, and about to get bigger break, moved some gossip that went talking. Were
close to coming to blows, because it is missing among many who like to stir, to do harm to the
enemy or credited to the friend. Both of the parties struggled with his claim good reasons founded.
By Berenguer was said that before his imprisonment was general, and had been first happily undertook
the provinces of the empire, and the perfidy of the Genoese was lost, not to have missed what
I had to.

After a long prison suffered to be their general, was to be no chance
to remove the charge, but rather to honor him with him when he would
not have had, that there was unlucky to lose what they won for their
value; free seeing that sold part of his estate to give relief, and
to this was added Rocafort to what offended him most, the difference
so uneven in quality, treatment and condition, Berenguer wealthy,
Rocafort, private gentleman, the one polite, liberal, peaceful, the
other harsh, greedy, insolent.

For the struggling Rocafort his claim friends with reasons of great
consideration.

Based their right to say, that Rocafort had ruled the country as the supreme master six years when he
took charge of the government, were our parts from all points lost and industry, and value
it had restored, and that his nation in its time had been made the most powerful and prized of all
the East: it would be very unfair thing to take away the government time of happiness, having
been in such tight times, which often wanted death for lesser evil than expected, that the fruit
of the work was to whom suffered enjoy, rather than the other noble and great as was, and it
would be a remarkable grievance if he removed the post in which he had increased his name as indicated
victory, and freed his people from a sad and miserable death, which always had by some. While
both sides was the case, came almost to breaking, sending its pretension to arms So many times within
the walls of Gallipoli were to given battle, because as there was no one who could decide the
case, being the army divided, brought all of the obligations, and fans who each had, could not
govern, or limit as a covenant for the common good.


I smiled again, for in my pocket was a letter that morning received from the former himself,
stating that he had been booked for a trip to the St Louis Exposition, but had flung it up
at the last moment in favour of seeing how Les. got on at the election, and that he would be
back in Noonoon before polling-day. Considering he could have seen how the election progressed
equally as well in Sydney as Noonoon, and that to see how his step-brother polled, when he
took little interest in politics, had grown preferable to a trip to America, quite contented
me regarding the probable termination of affairs.

However, I did not show this letter, as in matchmaking, like in good cooking, things have to
be done to the turn, and this was not the opportune turn.

"Oh, well," I said, "so long as you don't let your little arrangement get abroad, I don't expect
it will harm Eweword."

"No fear of it getting abroad. I've threatened him if it does that a contradiction that will
be true will also get abroad by being put in the 'Noonoon Advertiser.'"

Next night, however, I found Dawn stamping on something glittering that spread about the floor,
and by inquiry elicited--

"That infernal 'Dora' Eweword has had the cheek to give me a ring, and that's what I've done
with it, and that's all the hope he has of ever marrying me," she exclaimed, bringing the heel
of her high-arched foot another thump on the fragments.

"He's a bit too quick with his signs and badges of slavery. He's so complacent with himself,
and thinks he's ousted the 'red-headed mug' as he calls him, that I hate him."

"He has a right to be complacent. You have given him reason to be. He has won you, so you have
told him, and he believes you."

"Yes, I know, and it makes me all the madder to think of it."

I suppressed a chuckle; even before attaining my teens I had never been so splendidly, autocratically
young as this beautiful high-spirited creature!

"Let things settle awhile, and then we'll pour them off the dregs," I advised.

TWENTY-TWO.

    "O Spirit, and the Nine Angels who watch us,
    And Thy Son, and Mary Virgin,
    Heal us of the wrong of man."

Outside politics the next item of interest on the Clay programme was the reappearance of Mr
Pornsch, who came for afternoon tea, during which he invited himself to evening tea later on,
and before it took Dawn's time in the drawing-room trying some late songs. Dawn averred that
it was with difficulty she had restrained from setting fire to him or attacking him with the
piano-stool.

He got so far with his "love-making" on this occasion that he had asked Dawn to take a little
walk with him, which she had readily consented to do, as it would enable her to entrap him
for the tarring-and-feathering upon which she had determined.

"He is going to meet me over among the grapes in the shade of the osage breakwind. Do you think
we will be able to manage him? Let us be sure to have everything well arranged," whispered
Dawn to me as we came to evening tea.

Near the appointed time of tryst, when the first division of the Western mail was roaring by--the
warm red lights from its windows shedding a glow by the viaduct--she and I betook ourselves
to the far end of Grandma Clay's vineyard, where we were securely screened by the osage orange
hedge on one side and the grape-canes and their stakes on the other. Dawn carried a two-pound
treacle-tin filled with tar, and which had been sitting on the end of the stove during the
afternoon to melt into working order. Carry, who had entered into the affair with vim, had
her share of the arrangements in readiness, and was secreted nearer the house to act as sentinel,
and to run to our assistance if summoned by a prearranged whistle.

Dawn placed me and the superannuated hair broom, with which she had armed me, behind a grape-vine,
and herself took up a position before it and beside a hole about eighteen inches deep and two
feet square which she had excavated.

Mr Pornsch was soon to be heard tripping and blundering along, while the starlight, to which
our eyes had grown accustomed, showed the river where the dead girl whom we were there to avenge
had ended her miserable existence.

"Dawn, my pet, where are you? Curse the grape-vines," he gasped.

"I'm here, uncle darling," she responded, the two last words under her breath.

Directed by her voice, he neared till we could discern his bulk.

"My little queen," he exclaimed, the tone of his voice betraying that which defiled the crisp
glory of the night for as far as it carried.

"Just wait a minute till I see where we are," said Dawn, "or we will be getting all tangled
up in these canes."

With this she started back, causing him to do likewise, and drawing a swab on a stick from
the pot in her hand, she brought a consignment of the black sticky tar a resounding smack on
his face, and following it with others thick and fast, exclaimed--

"There! There! That's all for you!"

Mr Pornsch naturally stepped backwards into the excavation, as designed, and sat down as completely
and largely helplessly as one of his figure could be counted upon to do, and coming to Dawn's
assistance I planted the broom on his chest, and bore with my feeble strength upon him. It
was quite sufficient to detain him, seeing he was now stretched on the broad of his back with
his amidship departments foundered in two feet of indentation.

Dawn thoroughly plastered his face and head, and in spitting to keep his mouth clear he lost
his false teeth. He attempted to bellow, but jabbing his mouth full Dawn soon cowed him into
quietude.

"Shut up, you old fool; if you make a noise we have six more girls waiting in a boat to fling
you in the river and drag you up and down for a while tied on to a rope like a porpoise. Do
you think you'll float?"

This had the desired effect, though he spluttered a little.

"What is the meaning of this? Have you all gone mad? I met you here at your own request to
speak about helping you with your singing, and you've evidently put a wicked construction on
my action. I demand a full explanation and an abject apology."

"Well," said Dawn, punctuating her remarks with little dabs of the tar, "the explanation is
that we're doing this to show what we think of a murderer. Even if Miss Flipp had not drowned
herself, but had lived to be an outcast, you would be still a murderer of her soul."

"What's this?" he blustered.

"We have several witnesses ready to give evidence regarding all that passed between you and
the unfortunate girl supposed to be your niece during your midnight calls upon her," I interposed,
speaking for the first time, "so bluff or pretence of any kind on your part is unavailing.
Remain silent and hear what we intend to say."

"We're dealing with this case privately," continued Dawn, "because the laws are not fixed up
yet to deal with it publicly. Old alligators--one couldn't call you men, and it's enough to
make decent men squirm that you should be at large and be called by the same name--can act
like you and yet be considered respectable, but this is to show you what decent women think
of your likes, and their spirits are with us in armies to-night in what we are doing. They'd
all like to be giving your sort a wipe from the tar-pot, and then if you were set alight it
would not be half sufficient punishment for your crimes. We haven't a law to squash you yet,
but soon as we can we'll make one that the likes of you shall be publicly tarred and feathered
by those made outcasts by the system of morality you patronise," vehemently said this ardent
and practical young social reformer, who was more rabid than a veteran temperance advocate
in fighting for her ideal of social purity.

There was silence a moment while we listened to ascertain was there any likelihood of our being
disturbed, but the only man-made sounds breaking the noisy crickets' chorus were the rumble
of vehicles along the highroad and the shunting of the engines at the station, so I chimed
in with promised support.

"Yes, good women have to continually suffer the degradation of your type in all life's most
sacred relations. They have to endure you at their board and in their homes, and leering at
their sweet young daughters; and, alack! many in shame and humiliation own your stamp as their
father or the father of their sons and daughters. They have had to endure it with a smile and
hear it bolstered up as right, but those whose moral illumination has taken place would be
with us in armies to-night if they could."

"I'm dying to give him a piece of my mind," said Carry, coming up.

"How do you like our little illustration of what we think of you? We've done it out of a long
smouldering resentment against your reign, and this is a species of jubilation to find that
the majority of Australian men are with us, because in the vote they have furnished us with
a means of redress," and Carry finished her previously prepared speech by throwing a clod of
dirt on him.

"My grey hairs should have protected me," he muttered.

"You mean they should have protected Miss Flipp," said Dawn, "and when a man with grey hairs
carries on like this the crime is twice as deadly. There was nothing about grey hairs when
you used a lead comb and got yourself up to kill. I thought you didn't want to make an especial
feature of them, and that's why I'm dyeing them this beautiful treacley black. They'll look
bosker when I'm done."

"Get up out of that, lest I'm tempted to do you a permanent injury," I said, taking the broom
off him.

"You can go to the stable," said Dawn, "and I hope you won't contaminate it. Carry has a lantern
and some grease and hot water, so you can clean yourself there and put on your overcoat. Never
let us hear of you on a platform spouting about moral bills again unless you say it is on account
of the practical experience you've had of the need of them to save weak and foolish young women
from the clutches of such as you."

Mr Pornsch arose with difficulty while Dawn struck matches to see what he was like, and a more
deplorably ludicrous spectacle never could be seen in a pantomime. The only pity of it was
that it was not a punishment more frequently meted out to the sinners of his degree. He raved
and stuttered how he would move in the matter, but Dawn, who had a commendable fearlessness
in carrying out her undertakings, only laughed merry little peals, and told him the best way
for him to move in the tar was towards the stable, and the best way to move out of it was by
the aid of grease, soap, hot water, and soda. The expression of his eyes rolling and glaring
amid the black was quite eerie, but eventually we reached the stable, where Carry instructed
him how to clean himself, while Dawn jeered at him during the operation.

Having cleaned his face somewhat, he hid his neck and clothes in his overcoat which Carry handed,
put on his hat, muffled his face in his handkerchief, and went away, Dawn administering a parting
shot.

"Now, Uncle Pornsch, dear, next time you go ogling and leering round a decent girl, remember,
though she may be so situated that she has to endure you, yet she feels just as we do, that
is, if she is a decent girl, whose eyes have been opened to the facts of life."

"I feel better than I have done for a long time," she concluded, as bearing the implements
used in the adventure we three, who had agreed upon secrecy, made towards the house.

"So do I," said Carry. "If we could only do it to all who deserve the like, it would be grand!"

TWENTY-THREE.

UNIVERSAL ADULT SUFFRAGE.

I.

Electioneering matters ripened, and so did Carry's love affair with Larry Witcom. In fact it
got so far that she gave grandma notice, and announced her intention of going to a married
sister's home for that process known as "getting her things ready," while Larry, in keeping
up his end of the stick, bought a neat cottage and began furnishing it in the style approved
by his circle, with bright linoleum on the floors, plush chairs in the "parler," and china
ornaments on the overmantels.

Mrs Bray, one of those very everyday folk whose god was mammon, and who naturally hung on every
word issuing from a person of means while she would ignore the most inimitable witticism from
an impecunious individual, began to regard the lady-help from a new point of view.

"She mightn't have done so bad for herself after all. Some of these girls knockin' about the
world not havin' nothink to their name, don't baulk at things the same as you an' me would
who's been used to plenty and like to pick our goods, so to speak. The way things is, Larry
is as likely as most to be in a good position yet," was a sample of the modified sentiments
falling from her full red lips.

Carry was to remain at Clay's until after the election day, so that she could cast her vote
for Leslie Walker.

The political candidate thus favoured scarcely allowed three days to pass without personally
or by proxy stumping the Noonoon end of the electorate. His last meeting in the Citizens' Hall
was jam-pack an hour before the advertised time of speaking.

The candidate on this occasion made no fresh utterances to entertain, he merely repeated the
catch cries of his party; but the air was heavily charged with human electricity, and the questions
and "barracking" of the crowd were supremely diverting.

"Are you in favour of the Chows going to South Africa?" bawled one elector.

"My dear fellow, we are going to govern New South Wales--not South Africa."

"Yes; but when we sent contingents out to fight for the Empire in the Transvaal, do you think
it fair that white men should be passed over in favour of Chows in the South African labour
market?"

This question being ignored another was interjected.

"Are you in favour of the newspapers running New South Wales?"

"Certainly not!"

This being a satisfactory answer, the old favourite question, "Are you in favour of black gins
wearing white stockings?" was put; and the candidate having assured us that, provided they
could manage the laundry bill, he certainly was in favour of these ladies wearing any hosiery
they preferred; and the loud guffaw which greeted this information having subsided, he continued--

"Now, don't vote for me or for Henderson,--vote for the best measures for the country. (Henderson
was driving the personal ticket of having lived among them,--hence this warning.) I think it
an unparalleled impertinence for a man to ask an intelligent body of electors to vote for him--"

"When there's a swell bloke like you in the field."

"Pip! pip! Hooray! Cock-a-doodle-do!" came the chorus. The "Pip! pip!" was a new sound to them,
having been introduced to represent the noise made by the propulsion of a motor-car, in which
set the candidate shone.

"Are you in favour of gas and water running up the one pipe?" inquired another, when the din
had once more fallen to comparative silence.

"Don't you think that ladies ought to wear big boots now that they've got the vote?"

All such important questions having been put, the chairman called for three cheers for Mr Walker.

"Three cheers for Henderson," yelled the rabble at the back, which were given deafeningly,
and the candidate, with the lively tact which bade fair to develop into his most prominent
characteristic, joined in the cheers for his opponent, till some one had the grace to call
"Three cheers for Mr Walker now"; and in the most delightfully uproarious, holiday-spirited
clamour thus ended the last meeting but one before the election.

This was fixed for the 6th of August, and, notwithstanding there being several other towns
in the electorate equally as important as Noonoon, on polling eve both candidates were to make
their final speech there at the same hour.

During the week intervening, Leslie Walker's "Ladies' Committee" were very busy in the construction
of dainty rosettes of pink and blue ribbon to be worn by his followers; and not to be outdone,
Henderson's committee of "mere men" armed themselves with little squares of hatband ribbon
of red, white, and blue--the Ministerial colours.

These were not such dainty badges as the rosettes, but they served the purpose equally well;
and the sterner sex, in our present stage of evolution ever to be trusted to make up in downright
usefulness what they lack in mere prettiness, had attached a safety-pin to each piece of ribbon
for its masculinely substantial affixing.

II.

Polling eve arrived, and the Ministerialists having secured the hall, the Oppositionists had
perforce to hold an open-air meeting. We attended the hall first, intending to move on to the
street entertainment later, and Dawn was attacked by an old dame in the opposing camp because
she was displaying Walker's colours.

"If I liked him I'd go an' stand in the street an' listen to him, not take up the room of them
as has a hall hired for 'em by the best man, who has lived among us, and not some city lah-de-dah
married to a hussy off the stage, an' who had women who might be any character goin' round
speakin' for him," she tiraded, and turning to me aggressively demanded--

"Where are your colours?"

"Could you supply me with some?" I replied; and only too pleased, she squalled to an urchin
who was distributing the squares plus a safety-pin. I was such a well-poised "rail-sitter"
that I was entitled to wear both colours; and as this one was being ostentatiously fastened
to the lapel of my over-jacket, I remembered the injunction to live at peace with all.

A brass band played the people in, and a trio of youngsters unfurled red, white, and blue parachutes,--alias
gamps, alias ginghams, alias umberellers,--which were a popular feature of the "turn."

The committee appeared on the platform one by one, each received with noisy approval, and one
facetiously wearing a rosette the size of a large cabbage was tendered a particularly deafening
ovation.

After these crept Henderson, who, though not a particularly inspiring individual, was wildly
and vociferously cheered for everything and nothing, and after listening awhile to his catch
cries,--which differed from those of Walker only in the irritatingly halting and unimpressive
way they were delivered,--we rose and scrambled our way out, jeered by the old dame as we went,
and our departure was further commented upon from the platform by the speaker himself, in the
words--

"Getting too hot for some of the ladies," which, if correct, could not by any means have been
attributed to the winter air or the dull and weakly maudlin speech he was trying to deliver.

Walker spoke from a balcony crowded by devotees--mostly women--to an audience in the street,
which was further enlivened by the fighting of the numerous dogs I have previously mentioned
as addicted to holding municipal meetings. Their loud differences of opinion occasionally drowned
the speakers, and the main street being also the public thoroughfare,--in fact, no less a place
than the great Western Road,--there was no by-law or political etiquette to prevent the Ministerial
band from strolling that way at intervals; so, much to the delight of all who were out for
fun and the annoyance of those who were sensibly interested in the practical welfare of their
country, and who imagined that the policy of this party would materially better matters, the
cut-and-dried denouncement of the Ministry was at times drowned by the strains of "Molly Riley,"
"He's a Jolly Good Fellow," and "See the Conquering Hero Comes!"

The followers of Walker contended that Henderson was the worst of scorpions to thus come to
Noonoon on the last night; but considering that he had only addressed Noonoon once to Walker's
thrice, as an impartial wiggle-waggle I could not help seeing that the Ministerialists had
most cause for complaint.

Dawn pinned the badge I had acquired to the coat-tail of a local bank manager who, though on
her side, had lately distinguished himself by a public denouncement of "Women's Rights," so
savagely virulent and idiotically tyrannous in principle as to suggest that his household contained
representatives of the "shrieking sisterhood," who had been one too many for him. The boys
who saw the joke enjoyed it very much indeed, as he strolled along with the self-importance
befitting so prominent a citizen.

The beautiful voice of the candidate rose and fell, occasionally halting till the usual cheers
or guffaws died away, and the meeting ended in the customary way. What good to the country
was likely to accrue from it? On the other hand--what harm?

To be abroad in the open air with comfort at that time of the year, and at that hour of the
night, illustrated the beautiful climate of that latitude if nothing more, and every one was
harmlessly entertained, for good-humour characterised the whole affair.

Tea, coffee, and cheese abounded for all comers at the committee rooms of Leslie Walker--the
candidate supported by the temperance societies; and on behalf of Olliver Henderson there was
an "open night" at Jimmeny's "pub.," with the result--as published by the Oppositionists--that
boys of fourteen and sixteen were lying drunk in the gutters.

The next day, however, was the culmination of the whole thing.

Dawn almost wept that she was not of age to vote, and as I was so comfortably indifferent as
to which man won, I offered to cast my vote for the one she favoured, but she declined.

"That would only be the same as men having the vote and thinking they know how to represent
us," she said.

But though she couldn't vote she worked hard for her side, and with a big rosette of pink and
blue decorating her dimpling bosom, and streamers of the same flying from her whip and her
pony's headstall, she was out all day driving voters to the booth, where for the first time
in that town women produced an electoral right. The Federal election had been conducted without
them.

In the forenoon Larry Witcom drove Carry to vote in state--otherwise a brand-new sulky he had
recently purchased; and such is human nature that we were all sufficiently malicious to be
secretly pleased that poor old Uncle Jake could not vote at all, because he had only an obsolete
red elector's right, and he should have procured an up-to-date blue one.

It was a genial sunshiny day, and the lucerne and rape fields and the Chinese gardens on either
hand were beautifully green, as grandma noticed when during the afternoon she and I drove in
the old sulky to cast our vote.

"Poor Jake! I'm sorry he can't vote, though he ain't goin' for my man," she remarked. "But
don't it seem like a judgment on him for bein' so narked about the women bein' set free? That's
always the way in life. If you are spiteful about anythink it always comes back on yourself."

The street opposite the court-house--for the time converted into a polling-booth--was thronged
like a show-day with an orderly crowd of citizens of both sexes. The voting had become so congested
that vehicle loads of voters were being conveyed over to Kangaroo, and each contingent set
out amid the cheers of small boys, who were most ardent politicians.

Laughing and banter were exchanged between people of all ages and classes, one as important
as the other for the time being.

As we crowded round the door, a jovial-looking man with a twinkle in his eyes, as he was unceremoniously
shoved against a pillar, announced that women should not have been allowed the vote, for its
disastrous results were already evident in this crush; while the equally pleasant-faced policeman,
who, as soon as intimation came from within that there was a vacancy, wheeled us in like so
many bales of wool, replied--

"Women jolly well have as much right to vote as men, and more, because they can do it without
getting drunk or breaking their heads."

Many displayed colours and some did not. There was the truculent woman who voted as she thought
fit, and who loudly advertised this fact; the man who voted for Henderson because he lived
in the district; and the woman who supported Leslie Walker because he was rich and would be
able to subscribe liberally to all local institutions. A shallow-pated Miss favoured Walker
because his colours were the prettier; and an addle-pated old man balanced this by voting for
Henderson because he "shouted,"[1] and Walker was temperance. There was a silly little flaxen-haired
woman who also supported the Opposition to spite her husband,--a Henderson man, and the prototype
of Mr Pornsch,--because, being over-grogful, he had made tracks for the polling-booth alone,
leaving his wife to go as best she could. Alas! there was a poor little woman at home who could
not vote at all because she had succumbed to the gentlemanliness of Leslie Walker, and her
husband being against him had tyrannously taken her right from her; and there was also the
woman who would not vote at all, because she considered men were superior to women, and boisterously
proclaimed this to all who would listen, in hopes of currying favour with the men; but fortunately
this, in the case of the best men, is becoming an obsolete bid for popularity. There was the
woman who voted for the man her father named, and those electors of each sex who voted to the
best of their discernment great or small. Quite a crop of Uncle Jakes were disfranchised through
their rights being back numbers, and the nobodies who imagined themselves something altogether
too lofty to consider anything so mundane as law-making at all, were also rather numerous.
Ada Grosvenor's bright happy face shone like a star amid her companions, and she discharged
this duty honestly and thoughtfully as she did all others, recognising it as the practical
way of working for the brave, bright ideals guiding her life.

[Footnote 1: To treat to free drinks.]

Among the electresses were all the same types of vote as cast by men, except that those sold
for a glass of beer were not so frequent; and as civilisation climbs higher, universal suffrage,
and the better methods of administration to which it will give birth, will be exercised for
the adjustment of the great human question now so trivially divided into squabbles of sex and
class.

The bright Australian sun shone with genial approval on all, and in the air was a hint of the
scent of the jonquils and violets, so early in that temperate region. Grandma Clay must not
be forgotten, for in her immaculate silk-cloth dress and cape, her bonnet of the best material,
and her "lastings," with her spectacles in one hand and her properly-prized electoral right
in the other, and her irreproachable respectability oozing from her every action, she could
not be overlooked. As she neared the door the gentlemen and younger ladies crowding there politely
stood back and cancelled their turn in her favour; and Mrs Martha Clay, a flush on her cheeks,
a flash in her eyes, and with her splendidly active, upright figure carried valiantly, at the
age of seventy-five, disappeared within the polling-booth to cast her first vote for the State
Parliament. 

Choose the Catalans Governors, and requested the Duke of Athens offered napkins.

After the miserable case of Rocafort, and that he followed our army not only headless, but people
capable of so much weight, because so many government people, accustomed to obey famous Captains,
and aged under His command, evil whom it could provide not equal in value to the past, and noble
blood. Roger Flor was the one who first ruled, man, as he said, among all captains señaladísimo of
his time.

After Berenguer de Entenza illustrious by his blood, and exploits. Then Rocafort, famous for its
victories, and even without these in our field there were many gentlemen and captains of name,
that could fill the position, had all perished by the cruelty of Rocafort, who as rivals and
competitors to their always sought his ruin, because there is no reason to prevail a man when
passing through the preservation of one large, and the means available to adquirille and mantenelle,
does not notice if they are good, or bad, in exchange for dating
his claim.

Themselves together to elect the council head and they had given the
lack of them, resolved to appoint two men, a champion, and a Almugavar,
that by all four together, the twelve council govern the field.

With this government some time in Casandria entertained, to where they were ambassadors Count
of Brena, who succeeded in the Duchy of Athens for the death of Duke, the last descendant of
Boemundo, that I leave his state succession lacking the Count his cousin. Trax is Roger Deslau
ambassador, Sir Catalan, a native of Roussillon, which served as the Count. With this settled
the deal by offering part of their Lord, that whenever he should
come and serve would give them six months' pay in advance, and the
advantages mesmos had been in service Emperor Andronicus.

But we doubted much could go and napkins, but armed with that pass them, because ground seemed impossible,
having to go through so many provinces, and almost all enemies, rivers,
mountains, rough, and all this without having recognized.

With all these difficulties all concerts were signed, if at some time you were to serve.

They spent the next winter our people with a lack of supplies, and thus opening time, they tried
to abandon Casandria, and undertake to Thessalonica, head of the whole province to which was
the major force it, because it had by the way, won the City could be found with much certainty
the Catalans and Aragonese his empire on it, and achieve the greatest riches of the East, residing
there for Andronico wife Irene, and Mary wife his son Michael, with his court. These tips were
not so blind to the Emperor Andronicus, as previously thought, and then tried to guard, because
he knew the Catalans with imbalances for undertake great things,
and it seems impossible.

Captains sent experts to Macedonia, to lift people to defend the main cities.

He ordered that they be reflected in the fruits of all campaigns to ensure the damage that could
cause the lack of them, and dexar the enemy so that land could not be maintain what it was. Also
ordered that from Cristopol to Mount neighbor get up a wall to prevent the return of Thracia. This seemed
to the Emperor that would end the Catalans, if coming to blows with
them, this never wanted to venture, because I was as impossible to
defeat them with force and violence.

Was very close to sprout well these traces to Andronico if the value
of our people do not would make them vain and useless.

CHAPTER LXI.

Get the army of Casandria, and passed to Thesalia.

Casandria Dexaron ours to, and came with all its power around Thessaloniki, believing descuydo
to find it on the big and crowded city might have, but it was very different what is thought,
because sufficiency of provisions, and men of war, was on notice.

Tempted in attempting to brute force assaults, but the two empresses who were inside, assisted
the bravest captains of the Empire, fought the city, because Catalan,
recognizing such a gallant defense, dexaron the company, and staying
in villages more neighbors, ran the ground to seek a livelihood, but
as people saw it empty, and livestock, they suspected the trace of
the enemy they had not prevented.

Treated after splitting, because eight thousand men, captives, horses and baggage, were able
to support larger numbers, and live on what the enemy had forsaken to collect.

Seeing as the inevitable debris, stopped and determined to return
to the road Thracia that they brought to the coming, but warned of
a prisoner who pass was closed Cristopol with a wall, and enough people
to his defense, tuvieronse almost lost, because they believed Prevention
also that after this, the Macedonian, Thracian, and Lyria, and Acarnanes,
and those of Thessaly, all the surrounding peoples, they would rush
their forces together, or at least they defend the search for sustenance,
with the lack of which would inevitably perish.

The last need, as always happens, I did resolve to go through the whole Province of Macedonia,
and enter Thesalia, whose people lived without fear of their swords, because believed that
Macedonia, and the forces that had within it were impenetrable walls so that might offend the Catalans.
Just finished taking this advice when then he put into execution, because they could not prevent
Andronico, and so desando to Thessalonica, collecting all their forces, with incredible diligence,
because the enemy does not prevent their the entry of the mountains, walked through enemy towns,
taking from them only support Forced, because the fear of danger
was greater then than their greed, that by not stopping, not the army.

On the third day they reached the river bank of the penis, which runs between Mount Olympus and
Ossa, and water that amenísimo valley called Tempe, so celebrated in antiquity.

In the villages, and towns, banks of this river were housed, where guests of your gift, and moderation
of the sky, spent the harsh winter. Gave them the opportunity to rest having firm, flat torque
output Thessaly, and the abundance of supplies they found in the earth, some military people worked
before.

This vale of Tempe was so dear to the ancients, and by the softness and mildness of the air,
as the religion, and deities that they believed that living among those forests, and forests
and the river, which had a paradise, and own room of their gods.

Quando Greeks knew the way that the Catalans had taken little sure
not return, they refused to irritate, but the readiness of the way
was so that although they may not wish to pursue alcanzalles, and
left with new fears of people, whose industry and value exceeded all
their forces, and councils.

CHAPTER LXII.

Baxa the army of the Catalans to Thesalia, and concert dexan this province, and pass to that of Achay.

In
entering the spring, left the army to the valley and Baxo Thesalia, without enemy who opposed him,
to be made freely contribute most of their people living on the plain. Hallab then the Province subject
to a Prince of low capacity Irene married a bastard daughter of Emperor Andronicus. Was quarreling
with his father, because did not want to recognize the obedience owed to the Empire at this
time because that monarchy East of the Greeks was in its last decline, and most of the princes subjects
not admit it, because they saw no strength, and without them near the machine right is lost, that
restraint is given but the powerful. Thus the Roman Empire of the West has come to be in vain title
of his greatness, because Italy, France, Spain and England, that once paid him tribute, and received
his law, are free today because declined power, and he lost his right; The Goths and other
northern nations will reduxeron to this misery. After the Prince of Thessaly forces knew he had
in his State, and they were superior to theirs, with good advisers, and ministers faithful
who had reached what others could not with weapons, which was persuade him with gifts, and
supplications, which depart from their country, and so with a polite ambassador, after having fortified
some Cities, and put on defense because it was also occasion that the Catalans do not dexasen
certainty for doubt, ofrecieronles necessary supplies and faithful spies for Achay would lead
to, or to where they liked, and together they gave a lot of money because when the power is much
lower, you can not have the impairment of value, and reduce redeem
vexacion money to the suffering.

Governors were assembled, and Trustees of the army, and pondering the difficulties and dangers
that could happen to stay in the province, on trial for something useful and necessary support
parties, and walk on, because how much more they move towards noon, therefore came to have
about the relief of Sicily, and Spain. Responded to the ambassadors, They admitted that the
party, and that the business was closed, and then by the Prince gave them money, and victuals,
and they departed on a very timely manner day he offered to leave. This Thessaly was freed by
his industry great damage, and the Catalans with the same avoided them, because war is harmful
to all, and often the winner is different only in the name of the vanquished. The way that
our people were taken, was in the mountainous part of the Province
called the Blaquie Thesalia, which necessarily had to cross part of
it.

Quando Zurita referred to the way he did this army, received great deception, saying that the land
that became called Wallachia, because there came news that his province had Blaquie call that
because Montaner where he got the call Blaquier and ignoring Zurita
name, and addressed Montaner, called Wallachia, led by the similarity
of the name; but came to Wallachia not ours a hundred leagues.

The Blaquie to call which is, according to Nicetas in its history, the mountainous land of
Thessaly, which is fine with the way the Catalans did, and the name Montaner the flame. Natives
are called Blacas warlike people, and had many years oppressed to
the Eastern Emperors, and even today among the Turks retain its name
and value as who subjected to such barbaric and powerful people.

Montaner's not just expensive work that took this path of Blaquie because was provided with weapons
in hand, and fighting, so much resistance found in nature.

I understand that one of the largest companies were made in this expedition,
was the opening way through this world so full of people talk, and
brave.

At last they crossed spite yours, with universal admiration of those who knew the danger, with good
and faithful guides of Thessaly.

Thermopile spent close call, famous for the three hundred Spartans that Leonidas died defending
the pass to Xerxes, and freedom of Greece. From there to the shore baxaron Cephiso River, which
descends from Mount Parnassus, and runs towards the East, wishing to that part of North calls
peoples of the ancient Locrenses, opuntia, and Epiemenides, and at
noon Achay, and Boeotia.

This river comes up Lebadia and Haliartus, where it divides and loses its name and will move in Aesop,
and Ysmeno. Aesop runs through the province of Attica, until enters the sea.

Ysmeno set of Aulis Eupoyco empties into the sea, called today for
Negroponte.

For those neighbors Locrenses villages stayed our field to pass the
autumn and winter, and take resolution of what was to be done next
spring.

CHAPTER LXIII.

The Duke of Athens receives the Catalans.

So the Duke of Athens learned that the army of the Catalans had passed the mountains, and crossed
the Blaquier diligently sent their ambassadors to the heads of the
army, Princes fearing that other neighbors greeted the Catalans in
their service, because as militia was much esteem, all sought to have
it in their favor, and so it with great offers to pay, and wages advantaged,
they agreed to the promise he gave in Casandria of veins to serve
Quando he sent to Roger Deslau.

The Catalans oida the ambassador of the Duke, seemed more useful to their friendship than the
other Princes neighbors, and thus concluded deal with him, which
was the same who served the Emperor Andronicus.

With these new relief Duke got in Campaign to restore what his enemies
had busy state.

The most neighbor and powerful enemy was Angelo, Prince of Blacas and the Emperor Andronicus Greek
Prince hated that as the Latin name, and wanted done in his State
of the Duke, and to the other Frenchmen who followed him.

The despot of Larter, call the old Andracia, also pressed him with their weapons. Against those
of these three enemies who were powerful even split, the Duke began the war, and it was so happy
that not only suppressed rage and rigor of their enemies, and defended
their state, but also took thirty forces that had usurped.

Recently tried and concluded peace with everyone, but became very
advantaged by the Duke.

All events of this war that the Catalans had with the enemy the Duke, no historian to refer but
only wholesale, nor has it been remembered or any role where they
could get something that illustrates these events, which were undoubtedly
remarkable, because the enemies were made that powerful in numbers
and value.

Great misfortune of our nation, which has buried quietly memorable incidents that could perpetuate
their esteem in the coming centuries.

CHAPTER LXIV.

Dismiss the Duke with great ingratitude to the Catalans had served him without wanting to pay,
with that one and the other is to prevent war.

Then Duke saw the absolute master of his peaceful state, did not try
to keep his word, paying what they had offered to ours Quando called
his service, but rather treating them low esteem, he was plotting
his downfall, something apparently impossible, so forget noted recent
benefit was reinstated as a state so powerful and suppress enemies.

Strangely admired this novel, and moving to the Catalans and Aragonese, who expected hand thenceforward
live with honor and comfort, for as the Duke will be raised in Sicily in the castle of Agosta,
showed a taste for Catalan, and spoke their language as if his natural and proper.

Were suspended from seeing him, so exchanged, when they ran more items and obligations. The trace which
took the Duke to get rid of people descomodidades could cause war in its peaceful state, was
as follows.

Culled from our army two hundred soldiers on horseback the most service
and parts and three hundred foot, and distributed among them some
farms with sick moderation throughout your state.

These were thrilled, and others also hope that the Duke had to use the same liberality with them.
But as they thought they had fulfilled their hopes, the Duke commanded that within a short time
were to come out of their State, and that when you do not obey to treat them as rebels and
enemies.

Ours, though confused and disturbed as little coup prevented, with courage and determination they
used to, they replied that they would obey with pleasure if they
paid the salary that they should, because he had served so well, and
six months in advance that offered Quando came to his service, that
this money could reach vaxeles to return to his country safe but poorly
paid.

Duke replied to this with much pride, and with such disregard for past service and said that they
were in his presence, and to depart from his land, he or they ought,
nor their I wanted to pay what they asked so shameless, that getting
ready after his departure, if not wanted to be dead or captive.

This response forced to ours, to identify rather die than leave their land without give them
full satisfaction. They made knowing this resolution, and meanwhile seized some important posts,
to where people although they helped to sustain strength.

After the Duke knew he wanted to defend the Catalans are made large joints of people thus natural,
as strangers, to drive them by force of its state, be able to do with less expense, less risk,
less note of ingratitude, if I dismiss them the had paid so well deserved.

At last he resolved done by force, and assembled a powerful army that it our short unequal power
because of Athenians, Thebanos, La Plata, Locrenses, Tocenses, and Magarenses, and eight hundred
French horse, came to have six thousand four hundred horses and eight thousand foot, but Montaner
want them to be much more, but in this case I found continue to Nicephore who writes vaguely sick,
and could have more news to be Montaner closer than that and was
not present at this conference, and the Greek is quite neutral Quando
not write the events of his nation, but of the strange.

The two hundred horses, and three hundred foot, whom the Duke had given the estate was said
watching danger of his comrade, and believing that there was also the same rigor of executing in them,
they went to Duke, and they told him, and understand that this army who had together was for against
their peers and friends, and that if this was so true, they would renounce the estates which
gave them, for he had better luck die defending his men, who enjoy wealth in peace, killing them.

The Duke assured of its forces, which were so superior to ours, they responded with words so
heavy and so full of a thousand insults and affronts, that when so
determined not to come depart from their service, their response is
only obliged to seek revenge.

Words all men have to be very measured, and more on the Prince, because of the rudeness can not
wait but hatred, and sometimes I wish more care and satisfaction and revenge.

Words just indignation cause broken even in the most humble. Courtesy is loop with hearts that
are caught and used with the enemies is usually a means to soften the largest force of his fury.

This is were the five hundred to join with the other Catalan, and Aragonese, and were advised
of the final resolution of the Duke, who says Nicephore, who was
so arrogant and proud, under His hand looking so lucid and so people
who were older and their plans to destroy to the Catalans, for this
he meant to do in passing, and then go into the provinces Empire,
by a cruel and bloody war to get to Constantinople.

But all these traces interrupted God in the beginning, because the smug confidence of himself
never accomplished.

CHAPTER LXV.

Catalans victory against the Duke of Athens, and his death, with the
Catalan possession of those states, and put an end to his pilgrimage.

The Catalans and Aragonese after they learned that the Duke came marching
with the entire field the back of their seats, did the other times,
when they were forced from need that the remedy was put in just its
value.

Determined meet him, but had been fighting with so much inequality.

They were in our army, of all three nations, three thousand and five hundred horses, and four
thousand infantry, when their quarterings dexaron to go forth to meet the Duke.

Came to stay the first day in a meadow where going through a big ditch, were offered a ruse
to ruin important trace of the enemy. The grass of the meadows was grown an inch high, enough
to cover the ground.

Bogged down those neighboring fields, where the cavalry had tried to their first attack. For
his dexaron some dry, so that when it was necessary could go out and skirmish at spandrels and firm;
befell either the trace, because the Duke The next day came with the whole army, so powerful, it
was occasion, his neglect to notice the wiles of the enemy, and it
seemed that only the brilliance of their weapons and finery enough
to humiliate their enemies.

In finding to ours ordered their troops, and because had greater confidence in the cavalry,
put all in front, and he himself with a troop two hundred French knights, and the most lucid of the
province, took the vanguard.

Our people, while the Duke was preparing
for battle, wanted to do the same mixing the squadron and the Turkish
troops and Turkish Greeks in hers, but they dropped out he was saying,
they did not want to fight, impossible as it had come against Duke
the Catalans, who had been so well served, but must be drawn with
the wanted to destroy them as people of different religion.

There
were troubled Catalan, and Aragonese in the resolution of the Turks,
although the brevity could not disabuse them, nor would they refuse
to fight, before they left with more courage skirmishes, and prime
the enemy to come to seek his own death. He had reached that degree
of amorous collapse when he could manage to shadow the haunts of his desired young lady regardless
of circumstances, and grandma began to suspect that his attentions had a little more staying
power than those of the week-end admirer.

Seeing that the "red-headed mug" had reappeared, in the hope of permanently extirpating him
"Dora" Eweword was anxious to announce his engagement, but with threats of immediate extermination
if he should so much as give a hint of it, Dawn kept him in abeyance, and altogether behaved
so erratically that Andrew candidly published his belief that she had gone "ratty."

Ernest proffered himself as our escort to the Walker presentation, but Eweword having previously
secured Dawn, Breslaw had to be satisfied with my company. I had already presented Andrew with
a ticket, and as I could not now discard him, I resolved to ignore the injunctions to be found
in etiquette books, and accept attentions from two gentlemen at once. Thus it happened that
I, at the despised grey-haired stage, sat in state with a most attentive cavalier on either
hand, while handsome young ladies sat all alone.

We had entered September, and the early flowers had lifted their heads on every hand in this
valley, where they grew in profusion, and that evening were in evidence at women's throats,
in men's coats, and in young girls' hair. The stage was a bower of heavenly scented bloom,
and many among the audience held bouquets the size of a broccoli in readiness for presentation
to the guests of the evening.

Ernest was holding the pony, which was restive, while Andrew buckled her to the sulky, when
Dawn came upon the scene after the concert and presented me with a huge bunch of flowers, and
Eweword also got his nag ready for home-going. Dawn had not met Ernest since the night in the
street, and even now affected not to notice him, so thinking it time to take the situation
by the horns, I said--

"Here is Mr Ernest; you didn't see him because he was standing in the shade."

Thus encouraged, he came forward and sturdily put out his hand, and Dawn could not very well
fail to observe that, as it was of substantial build and held where the light shone full on
it, so she was constrained to meet it with her own, and received, as she afterwards confessed,
a lingering and affectionate pressure.

It was not of Ernest, however, but of Mrs Walker that she talked that night as we prepared
for rest, with our washhand basins full of violets that had been crowded out of the quantity
given to the defeated candidate's wife.

"Fancy being lovely like she is! After looking at her I've given up all hope. I suppose all
I'm fit for is Mrs Eweword--Mrs 'Dora' Eweword; do my housework in the morning and take one
of these sulkies full of youngsters for a drive in the afternoon like all the other humdrum,
tame-hen, respectable married women! It's a sweet prospect, isn't it?" she said vexedly, throwing
herself on the bed.

"Don't be absolutely absurd! Look in the glass and you will see a far more beautiful face,
and one possessed of other qualities that make for success."

"Oh, nonsense, you only say that to put me in a good humour. But how do women find such good
matches as Leslie Walker?--that's what I want to know," she continued.

"Either by being beautiful or using strategic ability in the great lottery. Mrs Walker probably
used both these accomplishments. You can achieve similar results by means of the first without
the necessity of developing the second. Silly girl, marry Leslie Walker's step-brother, Ernest
Breslaw, and if you do not live happily ever after it will not be because you have not been
furnished with a better opportunity than most people."

She did not remark the relationship I thus divulged, showing that Ernest's confidences must
have included it.

"A girl can't make a man marry her," was all she said. "I don't know how to use strategy, and
wouldn't crawl to do such a thing if I could."

"Neither would I, but if I loved a man and saw that he loved me, I'd secretly hoist a little
flag of encouragement in some place where he could see it," I made reply.

TWENTY-FIVE.

"LOVE'S YOUNG DREAM."

Next morning was gloriously spring-like; the violets raised their heads in thick mats of blue
and white in every available cranny of the garden and other enclosures where they were allowed
to assert themselves, while other plants were opening their garlands to replace them, and the
air breathed such a note of balminess that Ernest came to invite me to a boat-ride.

To the practised eye there were certain indications that he hoped for Dawn's company too, but
this was out of the question, as under ordinary circumstances it is rarely that girls in Dawn's
walk of life can go pleasuring in the forenoon without previous warning, or what would become
of the half-cooked midday dinner? So we set out by ourselves, and as the boat shot out to the
middle of the stream between the peach orchards, just giving a hint of their coming glory,
and past the erstwhile naked grape-canes, not cut away and replaced by a vivid green, the rower
made a studiedly casual remark, "Your friend Miss Dawn spoke to me again at last. I wonder
why on earth she threw that dish of water on me; did she ever say that she had anything against
me?"

"No. If you could be a girl for half an hour you'd know that the man to whom she shows most
favour is frequently the one she most despises, while he whom she ignores or ill-treats is
the one she most warmly regards."

"How on earth is that?"

"Oh, a species of shyness like your own, which makes you talk freely of Dawn and Ada Grosvenor,
because you have no particular interest in them, whereas there is some name you guard jealously
from me," I cunningly replied.

"Is it true that Miss Dawn is engaged to Eweword? If she is let me know in time to send her
a wedding present. I'd like to, because she's your friend," he said with such elaborate unconcern
that I had difficulty in suppressing a smile. His step-brother, the dilettante, would never
have been so clumsily transparent in a similar case.

"Nonsense; she's as much engaged to you as to him," I said reassuringly, and that was all that
passed between us on that subject. He energetically confined our conversation to the lovely
odour from the lucerne fields we were passing on the river-bank, but I was not surprised that
the afternoon's post brought Dawn a letter that smothered her in blushes, and plunged her in
a gay abstraction too complete for either Uncle Jake or Andrew to penetrate.

When we were once more in our big room, commanding a view of the Western mail with its cosy
lights twinkling across the valley, she extended me the privilege of perusing one of the simplest
and most straightforward avowals of love from a young man to a maiden it has been my delight
to encounter.

     "DEAR MISS DAWN,--You will be very surprised at receiving
     such a letter from me, but I hope you will not be offended.
     I have loved you since the first day I saw you, but have
     kept it so well to myself that no one has suspected it,
     perhaps not even yourself. Will you be my wife? I love you
     better than life, and am willing to wait any number of years
     up to ten, if you can only give me hope of eventually
     winning you. I do not expect you to care for me at once, but
     if you can give me hope that you do not dislike me I shall
     be content to wait. You are so beautiful and good, I am
     afraid to ask you to marry me, but I would try hard to make
     you happy, and being in a position to live comfortably, you
     could continue any studies you like." Here followed a most
     business-like and lucid statement of his affairs, and the
     ending--"Please do not keep me waiting long for a reply, and
     let me know if I am to interview your grandmother. I am sure
     I can satisfy her in regard to my position and
     antecedents.--Yours devotedly,

     "R. ERNEST BRESLAW."

He was honest. Not fearing that his income might tempt a girl of Dawn's or indeed any other's
station, he had in no way attempted to test her affection ere mentioning it. After the manner
of his type--one of the best--he would place complete reliance where he loved, and feel sure
of the same in return.

"Good heavens! has he really all that money?" she exclaimed.

"So I believe."

"I'd be able to live the life I want, then. Learn to sing, have lovely dresses, and travel
about. I'm not thinking only of his money, but don't you think people who marry on nothing
are fools and selfish? A woman who marries a man who is only able to keep her and her children
in starvation is a fool, and a man who wants a woman to suffer what wives have to, and drudge
in poverty, is a selfish brute--that's what I've always thought. As for gassing about love
when there's no comfort to keep it alive, that's about as foundationless as we, always being
supposed to think men our superiors, even the ones a blind idiot could see are inferior."

"Are you going to marry him?"

"I want to, but what on earth am I to do with 'Dora' Eweword?"

"Break his heart to keep Ernest's together?"

"Break his heart! It's the style to break, isn't it? He can have Dora Cowper or Ada Grosvenor,
they both want him. If grandma got wind of the situation though, she'd put my pot on properly.
She'd carry on like fury, and let me have neither of them--that would be the end of it. I can't
make out why I fooled with that 'Dora' at all. I'll write and ask Ernest to give me a week;"
and with her characteristic promptitude she sat down, and favoured a style as unadorned as
that of the knight himself.

     "DEAR MR ERNEST,--Your letter received. I care for you, but
     cannot give you a definite answer at once. There may be
     obstacles in the way of accepting your kind offer; if you
     will give me a week to consider matters, I will answer you
     definitely then.--Yours with love,

     DAWN."

As she got into bed she said with a happy giggle, "He says he loved me from the first day he
saw me, and you thought he only came to see you!"

"Well, my dear, you can't expect people whose hearts are broken from over-work, and whose hair
is grey from want of love, to be as quick as beautiful young ladies whose affairs have come
to a happy head with a splendid young knight;" and what I inwardly thought was, that at all
events I had discovered the knight's symptoms long before he had done so.

"Would you like Mr Ernest and me to marry?" she asked.

"Oh, I don't object," I laconically replied.

"Well, I'll marry him as soon as ever he likes if I can get rid of 'Dora.' I'll see 'Dora'
and see if I can do it without a rumpus first, but if he hasn't got sense to be quiet, well,
I won't give in without a fight. Montaner is not about justice and reason the
fact, but only favor those who sought his help, and put under his protection. They gave him then arms,
horses, and other things to put in order their own, coming up fifty people gave him relief,
because Montaner as the mortal enemy of Genoese, would not missed the opportunity to make some
damage. A Juan Montaner his cousin, and four directors Catalanes relief was entrusted with the order
which fails to take something without taking views of Ticino Jaquerio. Gallipoli left to another
day of Palm Sunday, with a well-armed galley, and four vajeles minors. Sailed around Fruilla
Castle, where it was Easter Eve and night. The sense of grievance Jaquerio boy carried out his
determination. He landed his people the silence of the night, and pulled their scales. They
went through them thirty Genoveses those of Jaquerio, and fifty Catalanes. Then came the day
that were discovered, and they defended the entrance, but fighting bravely won a door of inside,
and open, gave free entry to the others who were outside. Bearing was great resistance at
first by those who defended the castle, who spent five hundred men, not so well armed as ours, not even
resolved. Killed up to one hundred and fifty of the enemy. There was some captives, but most fled
to escape. El Castillo won, the town Greeks which was unguarded was undertaken then, before the
natives could be in resistance, or hide his income. Dam was rich, because more than gold, and
silver and clothing at prices gained, led to three major relics that were in the castle committed
by the Turks, the Genoese Benito Jaquerio. Tradition that had for San Juan Evangelista had left
in the tomb, whom we mentioned above. The Relics were a piece the wood of the Cross, the part where
Christ rested his head. This is referred Montaner, and he brought it to John will always mindful of
the neck while he lived among mortals. He was then a set with gold, with jewels of great price.
A dawn with the Santo was saying Mass, carved by the hands of the Virgin and Epocalypsis written
by the Holy with covers of admirable art, and wealth. Appeared to Juan Montaner, and to Ticino
Jaquerio Fruil that was far from the prisons so that it can sustain itself, and thus dismantled.
Satisfied Genovese of his uncle, and everyone else who won gold with which they returned to
Gallipoli and gave to Ramon Montaner and others to their fair share, and the relics he received
by Fortunately the wood of the cross, would certainly have come to these kingdoms, if he Negroponte
other farm run-off will not steal this great treasure. Encouraged by the success last Ticino
Jaquerio, seemed to undertake any business, and earn some place where he could be a seat. Montaner
also gave him for this some people, and soon after she won a castle the island of Tarsus,
and kept him, not without great benefit of our nation, as we shall see.

CHAPTER XLIX.

The infant D. Fernando, son of the king of Mallorca, the envoy of
King D. Frederic, arrives at Gallipoli to govern the army in his name.

Divided masters Nona sites and Megarix, Prince D. Fernando, son King of Mallorca, with four
galleys arrived at Gallipoli, by order of King of Sicily D. Frederic, because it judged that mattered
to increase your home by sending person put his hand govern the army of the Catalans of Thracia,
because they themselves had called and given oath of allegiance, perhaps not remembering that this
had been five years earlier when the necessity forced them, and then may have difficulty in
admitting. Took the infant this day to his office to serve the king only, it is commissioned,
with word that France would not marry without their consent, and that govern those states
on their behalf. Such estimation was done when they saw those weapons superior to those of the
empire, who do not want your obedience aside kings, even for an infant of house. Don Frederic,
prince of singular prudence, and large master the art of rule, would not pawn her reputation
in our arms, because the tube at a loss when asked relief, or stated by Andronico enemy until he
saw no strength to defend itself but the accidents were so different from what was assumed that the
resolution of the king so particular reason, came as we shall see, to not have the effect they
would have if before help them. The coming of the infant gave notable content to those who
were then found in Gallipoli particularly to large Montaner servant and passionate about his
home. Admitieronle as a lieutenant King without difficulty or reply all who were present, although
there were few, be the first they were thanked by the king. Enviaronse then post to the three chief
captains, Entenza, Rocafort, and Fernando Jiménez, informing them of the coming of infant, and
together they sent the letters from the king who came to them, giving reason how came to rule
in his name. Montaner gave fifty horses for his service, and greater number of mules that were
necessary for your home, and because the inn was Montaner of the best from Gallipoli was out of
it, and handed the infant. Berenguer de Entenza was Megarix on site thirty miles from Gallipoli,
where he received the notice of the coming infant by the two gentlemen who Montaner EMBI order
to give him, together with King's letter. They set out with few, and arrived at Gallipoli the first
of the captains. Dio the welcome to the infant, and swore by his general and supreme head. Then
after he came Fernan Modico Jimenez Arenas, and went around to Berenguer. Mejoróseles party
to these two rich men, because its less powerful Vando always feared the Rocafort, and with
the coming the infant seems that everything had to calm down, and things outside of their homes
by violence one, again to his, and everyone would be estimated according to their merits, and
quality. Was universal contentment at all, so the Vando de Berenguer, as Rocafort, whom altered
so much coming out of time the infant, and no doubt which of course denied obedience if it were not
met in their own taste that had given them this new. Found himself in considerable confusion
was shrewd man, and warned in its advice, but could not prevent with their usual arts which
could never fear. After consulting with his intimate friends case, it appeared that Agreement is showing
a lot like the coming of the infant, only wish them all, and that, as the site so forth dared
not leave for going to give the obedience, which begs the part of all, to come to where they
waited Nona gladly. This substance is said to the infant, and between both the bereaved, friends
and confidants, provided the courage to follow his advice and counsel. Came the reply Rocafort
to Gallipoli, and the infant would not be determined without the advice of Berenguer de Entenza,
and Fernando Jimenez, and some other captains well affected to his service, and knowledgeable of trace
and designs of Rocafort. All seemed dangerous to arrest, and who was from the infant then, because
the army will not cool in the taste he had of his coming, Rocafort and did not have time to
finish or move new talks a disservice to the king and government to exclude him. This resolution provided
for the child he left, was accompanied Most of the people of Berenguer de Entenza, and Fernando Jimenez,
his people do not seemed to carry because it was not right before they won the will of Rocafort,
and of their own, set before the first entry in a better place competitors include the infant;
and so deferring the way these two rich men when the infant had sworn, because then being
with full authority could make friends.

CHAPTER L.

The infant is excluded from government by the wiles of Rocafort.

Gallipoli departed the infant with the most support he could, bringing
the known only to masters Ramon Montaner, and in three days' journey
along the coast came to the field, where he was received with universal
rejoicing, and large demonstrations Rocafort content I celebrated
the days it took to put into discussion the orders of his uncle.

Expected infant that Rocafort comidad without returning a second
time to requerille, but as he saw that lengthened the obey the king,
and no it was understood, he said he wanted to give then the letters
of king who came to the army, and say in words the intent of his coming,
and that sent along this general advice.

Rocafort obeyed with pleasure samples, and the next day offered to have him along, because in
the few days it took the infant, warned his friends that voice cast them into the country, it would
be good tread very gingerly in the resolution that should be taken to admit the child by the
king, at least not determined later. This with a lot of art made himself, because he always
feared that seeing the army the infant is not cheering to the king, and he admitted. It seemed
to all informed and sensible advice; For the vulgar ignorant rarely penetrates ulterior motives,
and so followed him. The next day the confusing multitude of general advice that consisted
of all those who earned salary, together in the field, I hope the infant. He was accompanied
by his household, and many captains, gave the letters to a secretary, and ordered to be read
publicly. Defended them briefly stated as the king moved his pleas had accepted the oath of
allegiance, they did their ambassadors, and even to their kingdoms could not be useful to undertake
his defense, had wanted to show the love they had, porponiendo a convenience to that of them, and
commanded him to come with him to rule in his name and offered them I always would come with greater
relief. Rocafort They answered as intended, they have agreed on what should be done, and that
made him reponderian. With this the left the infant, and went to his inn. Rocafort was with
them, and unsure of the determination that so many people together could take, and fearing some
gentlemen, that although they were their friends, wanted the infant stay governors, they said
the case was dicurrirse could not well among many, because the crowd always brings confusion,
the which does not give rise to often regarded by the difficulties that are usually offered
in so weighty, that fifty people were chosen the highest trust and confidence, for that they
were talking, and runs the business with the conveniences and opposites in the had, and made the resolution
that they liked, the others referred to, for together freely condemn or approve, with which the
drawbacks of having escusarian to communicate with so many. Gave himself up for those of Rocafort
successful that when the mob is inclined to give credence to one at all remains, without regard to
the good, or bad advice because most rules with the will to reason. Then named fifty people,
so that together with Rocafort, treat, not noticing how much more readily You can bribe the few
than the many. This had made it their business, because the fifty were almost all made by hand,
and them some who could not be trusted also that Moreover, it was easy to persuade, to more
than there was reason, and much foundation; enforce theirs. Fifty were assembled with Rocafort,
and he said the following. The coming Mr. Infante, friends and colleagues, has been one of the
biggest and happiest events we might wish, at last sent by the mighty hand of who to this
day has preserved with great increase in our name, and confusion of our enemies, because has put
an end to our work, and principles to a very full happiness, to have clothes so characteristic
of our kings, to whom we can deliver security, freedom, and life receiving him not as he wants
for his uncle, Lieutenant, but as absolute ruler, and restraint and without any dependence.
As big mistake would be if the election of Prince depends on us, choose the one who lives away, and
rule over occupied states, and let the unemployed and free of other obligations and has to live forever
among us, and run the same fortune of prosperous events, and adverse. If received by Don Frederic
king, says easement we hold, because with his person may not assist us, and necessarily who
will send on behalf of the victorious army rule, and the provinces by it are subject. What greater
misfortune can be expected if a reward for our victories, come to be ruled by another hand
than our own prince?. And the king don Fadrique seek our defense who is not estorváre to the
kingdom of Sicily. Why, why he has to admit such inequality?. The work, hazards, loss to ourselves,
but the glory and profit, not only equal, but greater and more secure for king. If we miss being
dead, or in hard bondage, free Fadrique, and such great prince as before, but if we win new provinces,
and states have all come to be own. What then can any sane with this inequality, being free
to choose, give obedience to the prince with such qualities?. In addition to this Can not
remember the pay they gave us for many services from Sicily?. What was just a little biscuit,
and other things they can not refuse his servants, and slaves!. No, friends, we should make
him king Don Manufactures, since it is not remembered us while we asked their help, and when
we matter both give it to us, but when he agreed to, and to us are not helpful. This is done well to see
now, they do not send us weapons, people, supplies, or money, or else needed for the war,
but overall head and rule over us as if we Failing this, not many victories have been achieved without
having you put into their own hands. Does not consent to the award of our services are distributed
by the hand of his ministers, and governors, who can always be more passion than truth, more
particular interest the common use, because they treat the provinces like one who has to leave,
as in the temporary possession of property of others enjoy the present, without any care of
what is to come, and more being so secluded king, whom our complaints will be late if they are
hearsay, and relief so long as I now send us after six years with great instance we ask. In
this eventually I work out, which excludes D. By Frederic D. Fernando, we present the prince
who ventured life and witness, as to be judge, the services we did and take care of us like
himself, because our preservation and life go hand in hand with it. D. Be content Fadrique to Sicily
won and retained by our value, let Don His nephew Fernando war work uncertain and dangerous,
these provinces destroyed, and only the hope of conquering new kingdoms and chiefdoms. In this
talk a few doubtful that he had apparently resolved with Rocafort, and then two of the fifty
elected gave reasons for the determination they had taken to the entire field, referring to
the same reasons Rocafort.


My opinion of him being so high, saying a word in his favour gave me delight, and I took the
first opportunity of saying a good many. At the end of one day, after Dawn had been subjected
to a particularly gruesome account of what she might expect, I found her face downwards on
her bed, weeping bitterly, and elicited--

"I'm going to tell Ernest to-morrow that I won't marry him. It's too terrible--they all tell
you the same. I'd rather earn my living in some other way while I'm able. I'd rather throw
up the thing now when most of my trousseau is ready than go on if one quarter of what they
say is true. I'm not one of those fools who think life is going to turn out something special
for me. Before these women were married I suppose they thought their husbands were going to
be kings, but see how they have panned out, and why should I expect any better?"

Time had arrived to take the subject in both hands, so I gripped it firmly.

"You must be thankful to gain one point at a time," I said, beginning with the lightest end
of my argument. "A little while since you feared you were fated for the life of those around--household
drudgery, with an occasional sulky drive in the afternoon; now that you have escaped that prospect
you are haunted by worse possibilities. No doubt you hear some saddening and deplorable stories,
for some of the laws relating to marriage are degrading, and the lot of the married woman in
the working class where she is wife, mother, cook, laundress, needlewoman, charwoman, and often
many other things combined, is the most heartbreakingly cruel and tortured slavery; but you
are escaping the probability of such a purgatorial existence. Take comfort in knowing that
a great percentage of men are infinitely superior to the laws under which they live, because
law is determined by public opinion, and though it restrains and modifies public behaviour
it will not mould private character. Law is shaped for the masses, but there is a small percentage
of individuals in either sex who are superior to any workable law, and I think Ernest Breslaw
is one of these."

"Do you?" she said, sitting up eagerly. "Would you marry him without any fear if you were me?"

"I would--right at once. In spite of all its shortcomings I have a profound belief that not
woman, as the poet has it, but all humanity--

    'Holds something sacred, something undefiled,
    Some quenchless gleam of the celestial light.'"

The rain that was temporarily washing the perfume from the flowers pattered against the window-panes
and accentuated the silence, till I added--

"I will tell you my history some day, so that you may see that when I have belief in my fellows
how little reason you have to fear. I have been an actress, you know."

"Yes; Ernest told me."

"Well, I'll tell you about it one day." I did not mention that I had expressly requested Ernest
to keep my past a secret. However, I was not displeased that he had been unable to do so. If
a man of his inexperience, and in the zenith of his first overwhelming passion, had been able
to keep such a secret in the teeth of his love's wheedling, he would have proved himself of
the stuff to make an ambassadorial diplomat, but not of the calibre to be the affectionate,
domesticated husband, having no interests of which his wife might not be cognisant--the only
character to whom I could without misgiving entrust the hot-headed Dawn.

TWENTY-EIGHT.

LET THERE BE LOVE.

I so nearly "pegged out" with an attack that fell to my lot a little time after the election,
that Dr Smalley considered it advisable to summon Dr Tinker to a consultation, but sad to say
I was too comatose to have become acquainted with the husband of the famous Mrs Tinker, whose
individuality afforded considerable interest, because it was very conspicuous when surrounded
by the neutrality of life in Noonoon. However, with the aid of some "powltices" constructed
by Grandma Clay and energetically applied by Mrs Bray, and because my hour had not yet come,
against the time when we slid into a splendid October I was tottering about once more.

During my time of confinement the old valley had put on its finishing touches of spring glory.
Only a few golden oranges now remained on the trees, and amid the bright green leaves were
thick clusters of waxy bloom. The perfume from them was heavenly, and sometimes almost too
powerful after the sun had toppled behind the great level-browed range which, viewed from the
plain, guarded the west of the valley of Noonoon like a mighty wall. Some of the land had been
cultivated for a century without attention to artificial renewal of its fertility, but still
it gave forth a wondrous variety and wealth of vegetation. The widespreading cedars hung out
their scented bloom like heliotrope flags amid surrounding greenery of pine, plane, poplar,
and loquat, and the peach and apricot orchards contributed banks of their delicate flowers,
which in the glory of their massed bloom could have out-Japanned Japan. Along the lanes, where
their stones had been thrown, they sprang up and bloomed and bore liberally; roses of many
kinds and colours clambered up verandah posts and peeped over fences; the garden plots were
like compressed bouquets; the brilliant, graceful, and exquisitely perfumed pink oleanders
grew wild in the fields; and altogether the vale of melons had graduated to a valley of flowers.

The days had stretched out so that the mail from the far West trundled down the mountains in
time to cross the queer old bridge across the Noonoon at daybreak, and the first beams of morning
turned its windows to gold as the waking flowers were lifting their dew-drenched heads and
the soft white mists were dispersing themselves betimes from the plains dotted with ramshackle
little homes and cut into squares by barbed-wire fences. The weather had warmed, so that the
fashionables' week-end exit to the cool Blue Mountains had begun; and the youngsters near the
railway line sometimes left their play and stood agape in the soft twilight to watch the governor's
car, painted in a strikingly different colour to all the others and emblazoned with the British
coat of arms, go by.

Uncle Jake, a hired man, and Andrew were very busy on the farm, and we none the less engaged
in the house, where every article of furniture was made a receptacle for drapery and haberdashery,
and where the wedding was the only subject. It so often gave Andrew the "pip" that his constitution
must have been seriously impaired by such frequent attacks of this complaint.

In those days Dawn was too engrossed to take me for drives, and Ernest too occupied to pull
me on the historic stretch of water running like the moats of old beside his lady's castle,
so that Ada Grosvenor, in her office of doing good to all with whom she came in contact, stepped
into the breach, and sought to aid my recovery by taking me for gentle exercise.

It was one day when we had driven east from Noonoon that she remarked--

"It's a wonder that Mr Breslaw would care for Dawn's style when he moves in such a smart set.
She is a handsome girl, which covers a multitude of sins in that respect, but still she is
very downright, and--and, well, doesn't quite conform to the rules of refinement."

I only smiled, and waited till the pony's head was turned for home, when I covered the necessity
for reply by admiring the incomparable panorama before us. From the altitude we had reached
on the Sydney road, we could see above the unbroken line of the horizon west from Noonoon town,
and the Blue Australian Mountains stretched across the view in an endless succession of round-topped
peaks painted in their matchless cerulean tints, which, near the end of day, were royal in
their splendour. For a hundred miles they reigned supreme before the fringe of the endless
plains was reached--peak after peak, gorge on gorge, tier upon tier of beetling walls of rock,
disclosing dim shadowy gullies clothed with greenery and ferns where abounded cascades of water
and dewy springs in romantic and unrivalled solitude. The sun, surrounded by a gorgeous pageant
of flame and gold, rested his chin on one of the peaks as though well pleased with the glowing
snowless scene that his offices had in part created, and lingered a moment ere giving it up
to the eager night. She sent her forerunners,--twilight, which paled the wondrous blues, and
dusk, that left the mountains shadowy and indistinct, when the lady of darkness herself rubbed
them right out of the great canvas, and left it no coloured beauty but the gleam of the far
stars overhead and the tiny man-made lights below, which, showing from the windows of the little
homesteads creeping up the mountain-sides, twinkled like points between earth and sky.

Miss Grosvenor made no further comment regarding Dawn's probable inability to rise to the demands
of smart society. Only inexperience had caused her to make any. Ernest fluttered in the smart
set; he and I were familiar with it; Miss Grosvenor was not, therefore we were disillusioned
and she was not.

We knew that the acme of refinement and culture might possibly be found in the smart set, but
that it was a very small island, surrounded by a very large sea of other styles which spoke
nothing so much as squandered opportunities. We knew girls too superior to dress themselves
without a maid, yet who rolled tipsy to bed after every champagne orgy; supercilious and much-paragraphed
misses educated in England, finished in Paris, and presented at Court, but who used more slang
than grooms; while an expensive education did not raise their brothers above ribaldry and other
vulgar excesses. Ernest and I knew a beautiful, honest, intelligent girl when we had the good
fortune to meet her, and had no fears that she could not hold her own in good sets, let alone
in the smarter ones of colonial or any other fashionable society, where the majority were animated
by nothing higher than an insane and inane pursuit of something to kill time.

Besides, it was wonderful how Dawn suddenly eschewed slang and conspicuous violation of syntax,
as she could easily do, for she had been somewhat educated in a school patronised by the Australian
beau monde. Had not her grandma told me of the magnitude of her education when I had first
arrived? and did she not constantly repeat the story now? For having survived the fear of Ernest
being too aristocratic, she took pride in his worldly possessions and position, and characterised
him as "more likely than most, if he only turns out true to name, which in the case of husbands
is as rare as bought seed potatoes turnin' out what they're supposed to be; but there ain't
any good of meeting troubles half-way."

As the wedding preparations made so much bother, grandma got in a woman to clean and another
to sew, and determined to admit no summer boarders until after Christmas.

"I can do without 'em, only I like to see money changin' hands quicker than happens with a
farm," said she; while also, in consideration of the wedding, the doors, whose opening and
shutting had been obstructed by the ravages of the white ants, were at last satisfactorily
repaired.

Dawn, after the manner of most youthful brides, was desirous of the full torture of "keeping
up" her wedding, while Ernest, as usual with bridegrooms, so shrunk from display that he would
have paid half a year's income to escape it; but it was only to me he made this confession,
to Dawn he was manfully unselfish, allowing her full rein and agreeably falling in with her
requirements.

I did not think much of fussy weddings, but these were such a splendid pair of young things
that I was pleased to endure the preparations with a smile instead of a sigh, and contribute
some old silks and laces towards the trousseau; while a few dainty and expensive trifles, sent
to me from a traveller over the sea, found a place in the furnishing of the bride's boudoir.

Like all strictly reared girls, a certain prudishness at first caused Dawn to shrink from her
love as something that should be resisted, but as her wedding-day drew near her heart grew
more at peace regarding her contemplated change of life, and unfolded to the enchanting influence
of youth's master passion. The roseate mists it weaves before the vision of its happy and willing
victims, blunted even this girl's exceptional and matter-of-fact perspicacity, and with her
ears grown suddenly deaf to those who had at first alarmed her by the recapitulation of their
unfortunate practical and disillusioning experiences, looked out towards a future beautified
with as many shades of blue as the mountain ramparts beyond the river flowing by her door.
There was no hitch to speak of. Grandma, being one of a bygone brigade, enforced the almost
obsolete rule of a chaperon, and the two evils in this case being represented by Andrew and
me, Dawn considered me the lesser, and installed me in the office known by the irreverent as
"gooseberrying."

Mostly it is a thankless and objectionable undertaking, but in this instance it was delightful,
and we three spent a kind of antenuptial honeymoon that was an experience to be appreciated
with a warm glow by one whom the world has all gone by.

I suddenly developed a latent artistic ambition, and no subject would do for my brush but the
exquisite scenes far up the quiet river, where its deep clear pools lay like basins under the
overhanging cliffs, and numerous species of beautiful flowering creepers clambered over the
cool brown rocks shaded by the turpentine and gum-trees, ti-tree, wild cotton-bush, native
hibiscus, and an endless variety of trees and shrubs getting a foothold in the crevices. These
nooks, owing to the rugged and precipitous country, could only be reached by water, so Ernest
rowed me up by boat and Dawn went with me for company, for thus do we live the best of our
lives under pretence of trivial outside actions. The river was dotted with other boaters on
these summer afternoons, and Grandma Clay's "Best Boats on the River" were seldom idle, while
Uncle Jake was also occupied in collecting the tariff from those who hired them, and in seeing
that the boats themselves were safely moored again after their jaunts.

I fear that I may have been a better chaperon from Dawn's point of view than from grandma's,
but even chaperons, however great their diplomacy, cannot well serve two mistresses. While
I sketched, the young couple made horticultural expeditions up the river-banks where the cliffs
were not too precipitous, and though they went beyond my sight and hearing, and after a couple
of hours' absence returned with no better specimens of ferns and flowers than were to be plucked
within a stone's-throw of the boat, I failed to remark it. They were equally lenient in the
matter of my feeble sketches, which never progressed beyond a certain stage, and which could
have been equally well perpetrated at home from memory, for all the justice they did the exquisite
little gems of the picturesque river scenery. Grandma Clay, however, thought them fine, and
as the demand for them was not likely to be greater than the supply, I generously presented
her with one, unfinished and all though it was, and which she "hung on the line" with Jim Clay;
and no doubt it was not so great a caricature of the beauty of the Noonoon as the "enlargements"
were of the comeliness of their dead original in the days when he had told life's sweetest
story to the dashing damsel who could handle her coaching team of five with as much complacence
as her granddaughter drove her small fat pony in the little yellow sulky about the execrably
rough but level roads of Noonoon municipality.

This month of real orange blossoms was a time of moonlight, and regardless of the fact that
the river scenes were at their best for reproduction on canvas, when the sun was high enough
above the gorges to send great quivering shafts of sunlight between the tree-trunks deep into
the heart of the pools, and to cast the shadow of the gum leaves in lace-like patterns on their
surface, we sometimes delayed our setting out till close upon sundown, and took a billy[2]
and provisions, intent upon having our tea on the rocks under the trees by Noonoon's banks.

[Footnote 2: A tin pail.]

Ah! glorious summer hours on the happy Noonoon, amid-stream, bright in the hot afternoon sun,
cool by the edges where the lilies and reeds abounded, and the beetling cliffs and the limitless
eucalypti flung their shade.

There was a joy in going abroad when the sun was nearly on the blue wall of mountain, and its
oblique beams poured a golden mist over the blossoming orangeries, the milk-white spiræa in
Clay's drive, and intensified the gorgeous red of the regal pomegranate blooms showing against
the heliotrope on the lower limbs of the umbrageous cedars. Coming down the little pathway
gained by the creaking garden gate, we shot out from among the drooping willows, the steerswoman
turning her face up-stream where, in a southerly direction, the ranges were cut in a great
V-shaped rift that let the waters through. Anxious to escape from the company and critical
observation of the garden species of the local boater, we went a long way up-stream. Seven
or eight miles were but a bagatelle to the amateur sculling champion of the State that held
the world's championship, and he pulled his freight past the evidence of husbandmen, past the
straight historic stretch where the Canadian champion had lost his laurels to New South Wales;
on, on the strong arms took the craft till a wall of mountain loomed straight across our way,
and the river had every appearance of coming to a sudden end, but round a sudden surprising
elbow we went till a similar prospect confronted the navigator, and the river came round another
of its many angles. On, on we steered till the warm rich scent from the flowering vineyards
was left behind and the sound of the trains could not be heard. Far up the ravines beyond the
pasture lands and men's habitations, we found the desired privacy, and the solitude was broken
only by the dip of the oars, the flash of an occasional water-fowl, the cry of some night-bird,
or the "plopping" of the fishes that Andrew could never catch as they fell back after rising
to snatch some unwary insect. The gentle breezes sighing down the gullies, dim and lone in
the eerie moonlight, were laden with the scent of wattle and other native flowers, and otherwise
fresh and sweet with the inexpressible purity of summer night on the great unbroken bush-land.
In such dryad-like resorts we were tempted to dawdle so long that the big hours of the evening
frequently found us still on the breast of the river. I was wont to recline on an impromptu
couch of rugs in the bottom of the well-built craft identified with our excursions, where I
could feign to be asleep. At first Dawn suspected me of only pretending, but I was so emphatic
in declaring that the fresh air and motion of the boat induced the sleep I could not woo in
bed, that they grew to believe me, and carefully covering me from mosquitoes, it became invariable
that at a certain distance on our homeward way the rower relinquished rowing, the steerer stopped
steering, and the boat drifted down-stream with the gentle flow, while two-thirds of its occupants
tasted of the elixir--

    "That burns beneath the beauty of the rose,
    And in the hearts of youth and maiden glows,
    And fills and thrills the world with life and light,
    And is the soul of all that breathes and grows."

And what did the old moon see in that peaceful valley ere she sank behind the great primeval
gum-tree forests on the mountain crests, across which zigzagged the noisy trains? There were
heavy crops above ground, vineyards abloom, orchards forming fruit, hundreds of comfortable
homes, and no doubt many pairs of lovers abroad, for lovers love their friend the gentle moon;
but none were more fitted for love's consummation than the two drifting on the old river whose
limpid waters never again "shall blacken below, spear and the shadow of spear, bow and the
shadow of bow," and which, after rushing a tortuous way between its wild gorges, steadies by
the old settlement on the plain, and saunters smooth and straight and deep a space between
fertile banks gardened with lucerne fields, orchards of peach and apricot, and delightful orange
groves. The air was intoxicatingly heavy with the exquisite perfume of these bridal blooms,
and the soft-scented breezes laughed as they too kissed the close-pressed lips of the fair
young pair who--

    "Gathered the blossom that rebloom'd, and drank
    The magic cup that filled itself anew."

Ah! Love's idyllic hours on the breast of a grandly gliding river, when the dews were on the
flowers, and all was enchantingly sweet and fair under the sleep-time silver of a southern
summer moon!

TWENTY-NINE.

    "The savage sells or exchanges his daughter, but in
     civilisation the man gives his away, and is thankful for the
     opportunity."--Reflections of a Bachelor Girl.

Dawn took a great deal of her own way, Ernest and I were privileged to make suggestions so
long as we were careful to remember our insignificance, and grandma saw to it that her lawful
rights were not altogether usurped.

Occasionally it fell to my lot to act in a slightly mediatorial capacity, owing to the divergence
of the swell wishes of the bridegroom-elect, and the plebeian determination of his grandmother-in-law
to be, regarding the wedding celebrations, but Ernest was exceptionally unselfish and therefore
very long-suffering.

Dawn being under age, her grandmother came forward with a project that her father should be
apprised of what was transpiring, requested to give his daughter away, and to bring some of
his side of the house to the wedding. Dawn raised vigorous opposition.

"It would be like my father's presumption to interfere in any way, considering his career with
my mother. I hate him for a mean coward. He's the very style of man I'd be ashamed to acknowledge
as an acquaintance yet alone own as a father! I'd like to see him dare to give me away,--he'd
have to own me first!"

"Well, Jake, there, will have to give you away then," said grandma.

"I'd give him away with pleasure," replied Dawn. "If I must be given away like a slave or animal,
you'll give me away grandma, or I'll stay where I am. 'Who giveth this woman to be married
to this man?' the old parson will ask; why won't he also ask, 'Who giveth this man?' as if
he too were only a chattel belonging to some one?"

That she would be disposed of by no one but her grandmother rather pleased the old lady than
otherwise; so she invested in yet another black silk gown, over which she was to wear a seldom
seen cape of point lace worked by Dawn's mother; and she also purchased a wonderful bonnet,
and armed herself with a new pair of "lastings." Thus Dawn was to have her way in this particular,
but the old dame adhered to her original intention in the matter of the Mudeheepes.

"I've kep' 'em at bay long enough now. I'll just acknowledge 'em this once, or it will seem
as if you was a 'illegitimate,'" said she in the plenitude of her worldly wisdom, and thereupon
"writ" a stiff though not discourteous letter to Dawn's father, inviting any number of the
bride's relatives up to six, to come and spend a week before the wedding in her home, for the
purpose of making Dawn's acquaintance.

"There, I have done me duty, and they can suit theirselves whether they come or go to Halifax,"
she remarked as she despatched the communication.

They came. Dawn's father, his second wife, and his youngest sister, Miss Mudeheepe, arrived
three days before the wedding and remained to grace the ceremony.

Dawn, being a mere girl, perhaps it was Ernest's wealth and position induced them to meet Mrs
Martha Clay's overture, for they were thorough snobs, but if they had come prepared to patronise,
their intention was killed ere it bore fruit.

The hostess hired the town 'bus to convey them from the station, and despatched Andrew, with
many injunctions to "conduct hisself with reason," to meet them there, while she and Dawn waited
to receive them on one of the old porches. It was a bower of roses and pot-plants, and further
shaded by a graceful pepper-tree, and made a beautiful frame for the grandmother and the maiden,--the
old dame so straight and vigorous, the girl as roseate and fresh as her name, but each equally
haughty and bent upon maintaining their iron independence of the people who had discarded the
girl and her mother ere the former had been born.

Personal appearance was much in their favour, and no practised belle of thirty could have held
her own better than the inexperienced girl of nineteen, whose native wit and downright honesty
of purpose were more than equal to all the diplomacy of thrust and parry to be gained by living
in society. Her stepmother, who was apparently as good-natured as she seemed brainless, was
prepared to be gushing, but that was nipped in the bud by the way Dawn extended her pretty,
firm hand with the dimpling wrist and knuckles and exquisitely tapering fingers.

Her father and aunt, who were tall and angular, with thin faces of dull expression, met a similar
reception, and she presented them to me herself, explaining that I was a very dear friend with
her for the wedding.

I had long since risen from a boarder to be a guest and friend of the house, and it had devolved
upon me to exhibit the presents and interview the endless callers at this time of nine days'
wonder.

It being hot, the ladies retired to doff their hats ere partaking of afternoon tea, and Dawn
took her father's hat while he trumpeted in his handkerchief and attempted a few commonplace
platitudes from the biggest and stiffest arm-chair in the "parler," into which he had subsided.
I left the room, but could hear him from where I stood awaiting the ladies' reappearance, one
from the room that had been Miss Flipp's and the other from the one I had at first occupied,
and Mr George Mudeheepe was to occupy the third one of these apartments, which had been empty
since the tragedy.

"Dawn, my dear, you are your mother once again," he said with a sigh; "I have never seen you,
and now you are sufficiently grown to be married."

"Yes," said the girl.

"Will you give me a kiss?"

"I'd rather not. You see you are only a stranger to me. I have never heard of you only as the
man who was a monster to my mother. I never saw her, but I remember to love her for what she
did for me, whereas you, what did you do for her and me? 

With the good fortune which had not tried to move on, or following the victory thing that caused
them to lose reputation, and was the occasion to make many excesses in that region, which seriously
angry mood of the natives and Greeks. When they tried to enter the land inwards, began the
first day of November to come so severely winter winds and cold water stopped them. The rivers
and their growing without being able to wade through the barren season full of enemies, the difficult
road which was to march to succor Philadelphia, causes were enough to postpone any business. Roger with
the advice and counsel of Captains decided to winter in Cyzicus, instead accommodated by the
strength of the site, and abundance of victuals, and that next year the output was less embarrassing
than if they had to leave Greece, and embarking and disembarking of chivalry so often, something
of his so upset. Emperor then gave notice of this resolution and far approvedthe taste, it
was what suited him, having stayed in the army against the enemy, and away from Constantinople
and other Greek towns, with enough complaints and grief, but walked about three months without effect
hosted by Asia, working the land contributions unbearable. Andronico sent diligently to be carried
by sea the food they were not in place, that passed our very mild winter. Roger sent the Grand
Duke with four galleys for his wife Mary. The order which was held in quarters to excuse quarrels
between the soldiers and their guests, was as follows. The Soldiers named six of his hand and land
as many, so that seems common and put an agreement price to the victuals: for more costly out
more than just great descomodidad for soldiers, and giving them a very low price does not result
in significant damage reviews, to more missing trade and regular provision that came from everywhere
abundance. Ordenose Aones Admiral Ferdinand, who were armed to the winter to the Jio island,
safe harbor and neighboring enemy coasts. Jio is the island of the most marked Aegean Sea,
have been born in the Almaste herself, which nature denied to other parties land.

CHAPTER XII.

Ferran Jimenez of sand away from theirs.

The things of land and sea, arranged in the form that, he spent the winter with calm and a lot
of conformity, but then our forces were emaciated with some divisions and civil strife. Ferran Jimenez
Arenas, gentleman of great lineage, and a good soldier, desavino with Roger on the government
of the people, and thinking unequal competition departed with his army and return to Sicily,
Athens fell through to serve their Duke, who was grateful, and honored with military officers,
in whose service stopped until the need of his friends called him at Gallipoli and returned to
join them, venturing as a good gentleman's life and liberty.

I didn't bother tellin' 'em who I was. I didn't care if they had fell down an' broke their
necks--the bloomin' long-nosed old goats! I just took hold of their things an' flung 'em in
the 'bus, and the old fat one she says, 'Are you Mrs Clay's groom?' an' I says, 'Mrs Clay is
my grandma,' an' she says, 'Oh'!"

"Well, you might have introduced yourself a bit better to make things more agreeabler, but
they really are the untakin'est people I've seen for a long time. Ain't I delighted that Dawn
took after my side! An' now, though she's me own, do you think I'm over conceited to think
her fit for the king's son?"

"Certainly not," I replied; for it would have taken a very estimable son of a king to be meet
for this Princess of the Break-of-Day, appropriately christened Dawn!

THIRTY.

FOR FURTHER PARTICULARS CONSULT 'THE NOONOON ADVERTISER' OF THAT DATE.

That was a grand wedding celebrated in Noonoon ere the orange blossoms had turned into oranges,
but for details it would be better to refer to that most reliable little journal, 'The Noonoon
Advertiser.' Only a few particulars remain in my mind, but the paper published a full account,
including a minute description of the bride's gown and a careful list of the presents. It was
much to the horror of Ernest that the latter was inserted, but it would have been much more
horrible to Grandma Clay had the mention of so much as a jam-spoon been omitted, so he consoled
himself with the reflection that it was only in 'The Noonoon Advertiser,' and took care to
keep the list out of the account which appeared in the Sydney dailies. This second baratijero
campaign was a sweeper in place. Not a speck left Tablanca Rogue. Particularly Facia, which
was his sencillota and noble, had been wasted. Spent necklaces of all colors, rings, and alfilerones
espejucos of all makes, a lot of money: all the savings of its soldiers and more than requested
account, courageously facing the indignities apostrophized with the master. For those craving was
insatiable and he boldly inconceivable in shortly before, so modest, courteous and respectful girl, flowed
from a "I do not know a bad one" as a curse, and that "pulling the pulling" against his taste
to store trinkets, and particularly to the graces of baratijero.


The bride--a glorious vision in Duchesse satin and accessories in keeping, and with real orange
blossoms in hair, corsage, and train; the proud shyness of the gentle and stalwart groom standing
beside her, and the brave old grandmother drawn up a little in the rear, formed a picture I
shall never forget. The old lady performed her office with flashing eyes, a steady voice, and
an individuality which none could despise or overlook.

Excepting her grandmother, Dawn was unattended, and as the young couple came down the aisle,
by previous request of the bride, I had the honour of accompanying the old lady from the church,
and she said, as we drove away over the scattered rose petals to be in readiness to receive
the guests--

"I've done it--give me little girl away, an' without misgivin's, for if she's as happy as I
was she'll do. When the time was here there was some patches of me life wasn't too soft, but
lookin' back, I would marry Jim Clay over again if I could."

The caterpillars that had been eating the grape-vines and giving Andrew exercise as destroyer,
had turned into millions of white butterflies that flecked the golden sunlight like a vast
flotilla of miniature aerial yachts, and enhanced the splendour of that balmy wedding-day.
It was the month of roses, and, intertwined with jasmine and mignonette, they formed the chief
decorations in the roomy marquee erected for the breakfast under the big old cedars overlooking
the river. All Noonoonites of any importance sat down to the repast, and their names, from
that of Mrs Bray to Mrs Dr Tinker, are recorded in 'The Noonoon Advertiser.' The last-mentioned
lady did not exhibit any of her famous characteristics at the function further than to use
a gorgeous fan she carried in rapping her husband over the knuckles every time his attention
wandered from her remarks. The toasts were many and long, and it fell to "Dora" Eweword to
respond to that of the "ladies." Since the announcement of Dawn's engagement to Ernest, "Dora"
had been frequently seen out driving with Ada Grosvenor, and he paid her marked attention at
the wedding; but this was private, not public, information.

After I had helped Dawn into her travelling dress I had a few words apart with Ernest while
Grandma Clay bade a private good-bye to his wife.

"Well," he said, with self-contained and pardonable triumph, "I've won her in spite of that
dish of water."

"Yes, we three have accomplished our desire."

"What three?"

"Mr and Mrs R. E. Breslaw and myself!"

"Oh, was it your desire too?" he said with a happy laugh.

The bride now appeared, and wringing my hand as he said--

"You'll come to us when we return," he stepped forward to place her in the carriage that took
them to the railway.

The paper had better be again consulted for accurate account of the confetti pelting and other
customary happenings that took place at the station. These details, and the real greatness
of Dawn's match, and her aristocratic relatives, who, as often suspected, had not proved to
be only a myth, were the chief theme of conversation for many days.

All the engines in the sheds at the time, and whose music had lulled me to sleep o' nights,
blew the bride a royal fanfare as she entered her first, engaged, and further cock-a-doodled
"good luck" as the train steamed out.

Most keenly of all I remember that it was piteously lonely, and as dreary as though the sun
had lost its power, when the panting engine had climbed the hill from the sleepy little town,
and dropped out of hearing on the down grade from the old valley of ripening peach and apricot,
bearing the girl for ever away from the slow, meandering grooves of life of which her vigorous
young soul was weary.

A meeting of the municipal council claimed Uncle Jake that night, Andrew went over to discuss
the situation with Jack Bray, and the loneliness of the old dining-room was insupportable to
grandma and me. Joy and beauty seemed to have fled from the scented nights beside the river,--even
the whistle and rush of the trains breathed a forlorn note to my bereaved fancy, and there
was a tear in grandma's eye as she said--

"Well, she's really gone for altogether--she that I helped into the world and rared with my
own hand, and named after the Dawn in which she came. 

This became our Catalan, and Aragonese lords of that State, and Province, the After thirteen
years of war and thereby put an end to all his pilgrimage, and pitched his home enjoying the
farms, and women of the vanquished.

Because after that they were without contradiction own everything, most of the soldiers married
people are more major and richest of the province, and was founded in it a new state, and Lordship,
that our Kings of Aragon felt much, because cattle not their own strength, nor the common treasury
of their kingdoms, but for particular men his subjects, very fortunate to have such vassals
princes, that the work, expenses, and hazards go on their own, and the fruit of the victories,
the conquest of the kingdoms, have been acquired glory, and command and government of them is
by the prince in whose States were born. Were people so lacking in our major, and gentlemen
their governor, who asked to Boniface of Verona, one of the men who survived of the battle,
which was its captain.

But by parecelle Bonifacio would have the same authority that had Tibaut, refused to admit what
was offered. Two things I find strange indeed in this case, the first verifications Eye for an alien
captain and his prisoner, and the second that he did not want be. Disabused of his will, made
to Captain Roger Deslau, and gave him to wife the it had been the Lord of Sola, principal and
rich woman.

With this captain was ruled some time that state.

CHAPTER LXVI.

The Turks in the hope of returning to the homeland dexan the service of the Catalans, and the same
way they came, back to Gallipoli.

The Turks, and Turkish Greeks saw that the Catalans and Aragonese his companions had finished
his pilgrimage, and they were determined to found his seat in that state and life, eager to
return to his country, determined to depart from our company, and
although they suggested different parties for them to stay, offering
villas and resting place could live, and participate equally with
them the reward of their victories, nothing enough to stop them, because
they said it was time to return to their land, see their friends and
relatives, and most found prosperity and wealth so as they had, they
wanted to quale that nature was the center of the rest.

With this resolution the Turks were split amicably, and our company Turcopoles the return of their homeland.

They
took the road itself that they brought to the Catalan Quando came from Gallipoli. Crossed Thracia all
without anyone resisted them, cutting down and destroying large inhumanity
all the provinces through which they passed.

The Melech Turcopoles with its captain were Christianos, but more in name than in fact. He
would not try new deal to return to service Andronico, or because he doubted not admit it,
or because they admitted it would not be suspicious to give them after aseguralle death because
they knew that the Greeks and were very offended Prince Andronico, that in the battle that won
the Catalans out Apro, they were the first who deserted to Miguel, and after the Vanderas Imperial
dexaron Andronico they served, and joined with the Catalans and Aragonese its greatest enemies,
and destroyed seven continuous years with them the empire, causes
many to fear any reconciliation, that so great offenses are never
forgotten.

Noonoon is enshrined in my heart as one of the pleasantest valleys on earth, so during enforcedly
idle hours it has given me delight to paint its beauty, however feebly, and to put some of
the doings of some of its folk in a story, that others might possibly enjoy them too. But I
put the MSS. aside till, as the good country doctor so much esteemed in his circle expresses
it, I shall have "pegged out," and the heroine and hero of the plot shall then judge whether
it is fit or not for publication. It has interested me to write, but

    "My life has crept so long on a broken wing
    . . . . . . . .
    That I come to be grateful at last for a little thing,"

and those whose lives are strong, fruitful, and successful may have no patience with the sentimental
meanderings of an old woman who has outlived joy and usefulness.

       *       *       *       *       *

And now, may the Lady of my tale, as her life progresses from dawn to noon, high noon to afternoon,
dusk, evening, and night, have the Knight of her choice and peace always beside her, till new
dawns break in other worlds beyond this place of fears and phantoms.

THE END.

