"I very early learned to read, and soon became immoderately attached to books. In the Bible
I read the first chapters of Job, and parts of Ezekiel, Daniel, and Revelation, with most intense
delight, and with such frequency that I could repeat large portions from memory long before
the age at which boys in the country are usually able to read plain sentences. The first large
book besides the Bible that I remember reading was Morse's 'History of New England,' which
I devoured with insatiable greediness, particularly those parts which relate to Indian wars
and witchcraft. I was in the habit of applying to my grandmother for explanations, and she
would relate to me, while I listened with breathless attention, long stories from Mather's
'Magnalia' or (Mag-nilly, as she used to call it), a work which I earnestly longed to read,
but of which, I never got sight till after my twentieth year. Very early there fell into my
hands an old school- book, called 'The Art of Speaking,' containing numerous extracts from
Milton and Shakespeare. There was little else in the book that interested me, but these extracts
from the two great English poets, though there were many things in them that I did not well
understand, I read again and again, with increasing pleasure at every perusal, till I had nearly
committed them to memory, and almost thumbed the old book into nonenity. But of all the books
that I read at this period, there was none that went to my heart like Bunyan's 'Pilgrim's Progress.'
I read it and re-read it night and day; I took it to bed with me and hugged it to my bosom
while I slept; every different edition that I could find I seized upon and read with as eager
a curiosity as if it had been a new story throughout; and I read with the unspeakable satisfaction
of most devoutly believing that everything which 'Honest John' related was a real verity, an
actual occurrence. Oh that I could read that most inimitable book once more with the same solemn
conviction of its literal truth, that I might once more enjoy the same untold ecstacy!

"One other remark it seems proper to make before I proceed further to details. The appearance,
and especially the motions, of my aerial visitors were intimately connected, either as cause
or effect, I cannot determine which, with certain sensations of my own. Their countenances
generally expressed pleasure or pain, complaisance or anger, according to the mood of my own
mind: if they moved from place to place without moving their limbs, with that gliding motion
appropriate to spirits, I felt in my stomach that peculiar tickling sensation which accompanies
a rapid, progressive movement through the air; and if they went off with an uneasy trot, I
felt an unpleasant jarring through my frame. Their appearance was always attended with considerable
effort and fatigue on my part: the more distinct and vivid they were, the more would my fatigue
be increased; and at such times my face was always pale, and my eyes unusually sparkling and
wild. This continued to be the case after I became satisfied that it was all a delusion of
the imagination, and it so continues to the present day."

It is not surprising that Mrs. Stowe should have felt herself impelled to give literary form
to an experience so exceptional. Still more must this be the case when the early associations
of this exceptional character were as amusing and interesting as they are shown forth in "Oldtown
Fireside Stories."

None of the incidents or characters embodied in those sketches are ideal. The stories are told
as they came from Mr. Stowe's lips, with little or no alteration. Sam Lawson was a real character.
In 1874 Mr. Whittier wrote to Mrs. Stowe: "I am not able to write or study much, or read books
that require thought, without suffering, but I have Sam Lawson lying at hand, and, as Corporal
Trim said of Yorick's sermon, 'I like it hugely.'"

The power and literary value of these stories lie in the fact that they are true to nature.
Professor Stowe was himself an inimitable mimic and story-teller. No small proportion of Mrs.
Stowe's success as a literary woman is to be attributed to him. Not only was he possessed of
a bright, quick mind, but wonderful retentiveness of memory. Mrs. Stowe was never at a loss
for reliable information on any subject as long as the professor lived. He belonged, to that
extinct species, the "general scholar." His scholarship was not critical in the modern sense
of the word, but in the main accurate, in spite of his love for the marvelous.

It is not out of place to give a little idea of his power in character-painting, as it shows
how suggestive his conversation and letters must have been to a mind like that of Mrs. Stowe:--

NATICK, July 14, 1839.

I have had a real good time this week writing my oration. I have strolled over my old walking
places, and found the same old stone walls, the same old footpaths through the rye-fields,
the same bends in the river, the same old bullfrogs with their green spectacles on, the same
old terrapins sticking up their heads and bowing as I go by; and nothing was wanting but my
wife to talk with to make all complete. . . . I have had some rare talks with old uncle "Jaw"
Bacon, and other old characters, which you ought to have heard. The Curtises have been flooding
Uncle "Jaw's" meadows, and he is in a great stew about it. He says: "I took and tell'd your
Uncle Izic to tell them 'ere Curtises that if the Devil did n't git 'em far flowing my medder
arter that sort, I didn't see no use o' havin' any Devil." "Have you talked with the Curtises
yourself?" "Yes, hang the sarcy dogs! and they took and tell'd me that they'd take and flow
clean up to my front door, and make me go out and in in a boat." "Why don't you go to law?"
"Oh, they keep alterin' and er tinkerin'-up the laws so here in Massachusetts that a body can't
git no damage fur flowing; they think cold water can't hurt nobody."

Mother and Aunt Nabby each keep separate establishments. First Aunt Nabby gets up in the morning
and examines the sink, to see whether it leaks and rots the beam. She then makes a little fire,
gets her little teapot of bright shining tin, and puts into it a teaspoonful of black tea,
and so prepares her breakfast.

By this time mother comes creeping down-stairs, like an old tabby-cat out of the ash-hole;
and she kind o' doubts and reckons whether or no she had better try to git any breakfast, bein'
as she 's not much appetite this mornin'; but she goes to the leg of bacon and cuts off a little
slice, reckons sh'll broil it; then goes and looks at the coffee-pot and reckons sh'll have
a little coffee; don't exactly know whether it's good for her, but she don't drink much. So
while Aunt Nabby is sitting sipping her tea and munching her bread and butter with a matter-of-fact
certainty and marvelous satisfaction, mother goes doubting and reckoning round, like Mrs. Diffidence
in Doubting Castle, till you see rising up another little table in another corner of the room,
with a good substantial structure of broiled ham and coffee, and a boiled egg or two, with
various et ceteras, which Mrs. Diffidence, after many desponding ejaculations, finally sits
down to, and in spite of all presentiments makes them fly as nimbly as Mr. Ready-to-Halt did
Miss Much-afraid when he footed it so well with her on his crutches in the dance on the occasion
of Giant Despair's overthrow.

I have thus far dined alternately with mother and Aunt Susan, not having yet been admitted
to Aunt Nabby's establishment. There are now great talkings, and congresses and consultations
of the allied powers, and already rumors are afloat that perhaps all will unite their forces
and dine at one table, especially as Harriet and little Hattie are coming, and there is no
knowing what might come out in the papers if there should be anything a little odd.

Mother is very well, thin as a hatchet and smart as a steel trap; Aunt Nabby, fat and easy
as usual; for since the sink is mended, and no longer leaks and rots the beam, and she has
nothing to do but watch it, and Uncle Bill has joined the Washingtonians and no longer drinks
rum, she is quite at a loss for topics of worriment.

Uncle Ike has had a little touch of palsy and is rather feeble. He says that his legs and arms
have rather gi'n out, but his head and pluck are as good as they ever were. I told him that
our sister Kate was very much in the same fix, whereat he was considerably affected, and opened
the crack in his great pumpkin of a face, displaying the same two rows of great white ivories
which have been my admiration from my youth up. He is sixty-five years of age, and has never
lost a tooth, and was never in his life more than fifteen miles from the spot where he was
born, except once, in the ever-memorable year 1819, when I was at Bradford Academy.

In a sudden glow of adventurous rashness he undertook to go after me and bring me home for
vacation; and he actually performed the whole journey of thirty miles with his horse and wagon,
and slept at a tavern a whole night, a feat of bravery on which he has never since ceased to
plume himself. I well remember that awful night in the tavern in the remote region of North
Andover. We occupied a chamber in which were two beds. In the unsuspecting innocence of youth
I undressed myself and got into bed as usual; but my brave and thoughtful uncle, merely divesting
himself of his coat, put it under his pillow, and then threw himself on to the bed with his
boots on his feet, and his two hands resting on the rim of his hat, which he had prudently
placed on the apex of his stomach as he lay on his back. He wouldn't allow me to blow out the
candle, but he lay there with his great white eyes fixed on the ceiling, in the cool, determined
manner of a bold man who had made up his mind to face danger and meet whatever might befall
him. We escaped, however, without injury, the doughty landlord and his relentless sons merely
demanding pay for supper, lodging, horse-feed, and breakfast, which my valiant uncle, betraying
no signs of fear, resolutely paid.

Mrs. Stowe has woven this incident into chapter thirty-two of "Oldtown Folks," where Uncle
Ike figures as Uncle Jacob.

Mrs. Stowe had misgivings as to the reception which "Oldtown Folks" would meet in England,
owing to its distinctively New England character. Shortly after the publication of the book
she received the following words of encouragement from Mrs. Lewes (George Eliot), July 11, 1869 :--

"I have received and read 'Oldtown Folks.' I think that few of your readers can have felt more
interest than I have felt in that picture of an elder generation; for my interest in it has
a double root,--one in my own love for our old-fashioned provincial life, which had its affinities
with a contemporary life, even all across the Atlantic, and of which I have gathered glimpses
in different phases from my father and mother, with their relations; the other is my experimental
acquaintance with some shades of Calvinistic orthodoxy. I think your way of presenting the
religious convictions which are not your own, except by the way of indirect fellowship, is
a triumph of insight and true tolerance. . . . Both Mr. Lewes and I are deeply interested in
the indications which the professor gives of his peculiar psychological experience, and we
should feel it a great privilege to learn much more of it from his lips. It is a rare thing
to have such an opportunity of studying exceptional experience in the testimony of a truthful
and in every way distinguished mind."

"Oldtown Folks" is of interest as being undoubtedly the last of Mrs. Stowe's works which will
outlive the generation for which it was written. Besides its intrinsic merit as a work of fiction,
it has a certain historic value as being a faithful study of "New England life and character
in that particular time of its history which may be called the seminal period."

Whether Mrs. Stowe was far enough away from the time and people she attempts to describe to
"make (her) mind as still and passive as a looking-glass or a mountain lake, and to give merely
the images reflected there," is something that will in great part determine the permanent value
of this work. Its interest as a story merely is of course ephemeral.

It seems impossible to avoid the unpleasant episode in Mrs. Stowe's life known as the "Byron
Controversy." It will be our effort to deal with the matter as colorlessly as is consistent
with an adequate setting forth of the motives which moved Mrs. Stowe to awaken this unsavory
discussion. In justification of her action in this matter, Mrs. Stowe says:--

"What interest have you and I, my brother and my sister, in this short life of ours, to utter
anything but the truth? Is not truth between man and man, and between man and woman, the foundation
on which all things rest? Have you not, every individual of you, who must hereafter give an
account yourself alone to God, an interest to know the exact truth in this matter, and a duty
to perform as respects that truth? Hear me, then, while I tell you the position in which I
stood, and what was my course in relation to it.

"A shameless attack on my friend's memory had appeared in the 'Blackwood' of July, 1869, branding
Lady Byron as the vilest of criminals, and recommending the Guiccioli book to a Christian public
as interesting from the very fact that it was the avowed production of Lord Byron's mistress.
No efficient protest was made against this outrage in England, and Littell's 'Living Age' reprinted
the 'Blackwood' article, and the Harpers, the largest publishing house in America, perhaps
in the world, republished the book.

"Its statements--with those of the 'Blackwood,' 'Pall Mall Gazette,' and other English periodicals--were
being propagated through all the young reading and writing world of America. I was meeting
them advertised in dailies, and made up into articles in magazines, and thus the generation
of to-day, who had no means of judging Lady Byron but by these fables of her slanderers, were
being foully deceived. The friends who knew her personally were a small, select circle in England,
whom death is every day reducing. They were few in number compared with the great world, and
were silent. I saw these foul slanders crystallizing into history, uncontradicted by friends
who knew her personally, who, firm in their own knowledge of her virtues, and limited in view
as aristocratic circles generally are, had no idea of the width of the world they were living
in, and the exigency of the crisis. When time passed on and no voice was raised, I spoke."

It is hardly necessary to recapitulate, at any great length, facts already so familiar to the
reading public; it may be sufficient simply to say that after the appearance in 1868 of the
Countess Guiccioli's "Recollections of Lord Byron," Mrs. Stowe felt herself called upon to
defend the memory of her friend from what she esteemed to be falsehoods and slanders. To accomplish
this object, she prepared for the "Atlantic Monthly" of September, 1869, an article, "The True
Story of Lady Byron's Life." Speaking of her first impressions of Lady Byron, Mrs. Stowe says:--

"I formed her acquaintance in the year 1853, during my first visit to England. I met her at
a lunch party in the house of one of her friends. When I was introduced to her, I felt in a
moment the words of her husband:--

  "'There was awe in the homage that she drew;
  Her spirit seemed as seated on a throne.'"

It was in the fall of 1856, on the occasion of Mrs. Stowe's second visit to England, as she
and her sister were on their way to Eversley to visit the Rev. C. Kingsley, that they stopped
by invitation to lunch with Lady Byron at her summer residence at Ham Common, near Richmond.
At that time Lady Byron informed Mrs. Stowe that it was her earnest desire to receive a visit
from her on her return, as there was a subject of great importance concerning which she desired
her advice. Mrs. Stowe has thus described this interview with Lady Byron:--

"After lunch, I retired with Lady Byron, and my sister remained with her friends. I should
here remark that the chief subject of the conversation which ensued was not entirely new to me."

"In the interval between my first and second visits to England, a lady who for many years had
enjoyed Lady Byron's friendship and confidence had, with her consent, stated the case generally
to me, giving some of the incidents, so that I was in a manner prepared for what followed."

"Those who accuse Lady Byron of being a person fond of talking upon this subject, and apt to
make unconsidered confidences, can have known very little of her, of her reserve, and of the
apparent difficulty she had in speaking on subjects nearest her heart. Her habitual calmness
and composure of manner, her collected dignity on all occasions, are often mentioned by her
husband, sometimes with bitterness, sometimes with admiration. He says: 'Though I accuse Lady
Byron of an excess of self-respect, I must in candor admit that, if ever a person had excuse
for an extraordinary portion of it, she has, as in all her thoughts, words, and deeds she is
the most decorous woman that ever existed, and must appear, what few I fancy could, a perfectly
refined gentlewoman, even to her femme de chambre.'

"This calmness and dignity were never more manifested than in this interview. In recalling
the conversation at this distance of time, I cannot remember all the language used. Some particular
words and forms of expression I do remember, and those I give; and in other cases I give my
recollection of the substance of what was said.

"There was something awful to me in the intensity of repressed emotion which she showed as
she proceeded. The great fact upon which all turned was stated in words that were unmistakable."

Mrs. Stowe goes on to give minutely Lady Byron's conversation, and concludes by saying:--

Of course I did not listen to this story as one who was investigating its worth. I received
it as truth, and the purpose for which it was communicated was not to enable me to prove it
to the world, but to ask my opinion whether she should show it to the world before leaving
it. The whole consultation was upon the assumption that she had at her command such proofs
as could not be questioned. Concerning what they were I did not minutely inquire, only, in
answer to a general question, she said that she had letters and documents in proof of her story.
Knowing Lady Byron's strength of mind, her clear-headedness, her accurate habits, and her perfect
knowledge of the matter, I considered her judgment on this point decisive. I told her that
I would take the subject into consideration and give my opinion in a few days. That night,
after my sister and myself had retired to our own apartment, I related to her the whole history,
and we spent the night in talking it over. I was powerfully impressed with the justice and
propriety of an immediate disclosure; while she, on the contrary, represented the fatal consequences
that would probably come upon Lady Byron from taking such a step.

Before we parted the next day, I requested Lady Byron to give me some memoranda of such dates
and outlines of the general story as would enable me better to keep it in its connection, which
she did. On giving me the paper, Lady Byron requested me to return it to her when it had ceased
to be of use to me for the purpose intended. Accordingly, a day or two after, I inclosed it
to her in a hasty note, as I was then leaving London for Paris, and had not yet had time fully
to consider the subject. On reviewing my note I can recall that then the whole history appeared
to me like one of those singular cases where unnatural impulses to vice are the result of a
taint of constitutional insanity. This has always seemed to me the only way of accounting for
instances of utterly motiveless and abnormal wickedness and cruelty. These, my first impressions,
were expressed in the hasty note written at the time:--

LONDON, November 5,1856.

DEAREST FRIEND,--I return these. They have held mine eyes waking. How strange! How unaccountable!
Have you ever subjected the facts to the judgment of a medical man, learned in nervous pathology?
Is it not insanity?

But my purpose to-night is not to write to you fully what I think of this matter. I am going
to write to you from Paris more at leisure.

(The rest of the letter was taken up in the final details of a charity in which Lady Byron
had been engaged with me in assisting an unfortunate artist. It concludes thus:)

I write now in all haste, en route for Paris. As to America, all is not lost yet. Farewell.
I love you, my dear friend, as never before, with an intense feeling that I cannot easily express.
God bless you.

H. B. S.

The next letter is as follows:--

PARIS, December 17, 1856.

DEAR LADY BYRON,--The Kansas Committee have written me a letter desiring me to express to Miss
---- their gratitude for the five pounds she sent them. I am not personally acquainted with
her, and must return these acknowledgments through you.

I wrote you a day or two since, inclosing the reply of the Kansas Committee to you.

On that subject on which you spoke to me the last time we were together, I have thought often
and deeply. I have changed my mind somewhat. Considering the peculiar circumstances of the
case, I could wish that the sacred veil of silence, so bravely thrown over the past, should
never be withdrawn during the time that you remain with us. I would say then, leave all with
some discreet friends, who, after both have passed from earth, shall say what was due to justice.
I am led to think this by seeing how low, how unworthy, the judgments of this world are; and
I would not that what I so much respect, love, and revere should be placed within reach of
its harpy claw, which pollutes what it touches. The day will yet come which will bring to light
every hidden thing. "There is nothing covered that shall not be revealed, neither hid that
shall not be known;" and so justice will not fail.

Such, my dear friend, are my thoughts; different from what they were since first I heard that
strange, sad history. Meanwhile I love you forever, whether we meet again on earth or not.

Affectionately yours,

H. B. S.

Before her article appeared in print, Mrs. Stowe addressed the following letter to Dr. Holmes
in Boston:--

HARTFORD, June 26,1869.

DEAR DOCTOR,--I am going to ask help of you, and I feel that confidence in your friendship
that leads me to be glad that I have a friend like you to ask advice of. In order that you
may understand fully what it is, I must go back some years and tell you about it.

When I went to England the first time, I formed a friendship with Lady Byron which led to a
somewhat interesting correspondence. When there the second time, after the publication of "Dred"
in 1856, Lady Byron wrote to me that she wished to have some private confidential conversation
with me, and invited me to come spend a day with her at her country-seat near London. I went,
met her alone, and spent an afternoon with her. The object of the visit she then explained
to me. She was in such a state of health that she considered she had very little time to live,
and was engaged in those duties and reviews which every thoughtful person finds who is coming
deliberately, and with their eyes open, to the boundaries of this mortal life.

Lady Byron, as you must perceive, has all her life lived under a weight of slanders and false
imputations laid upon her by her husband. Her own side of the story has been told only to that
small circle of confidential friends who needed to know it in order to assist her in meeting
the exigencies which it imposed on her. Of course it has thrown the sympathy mostly on his
side, since the world generally has more sympathy with impulsive incorrectness than with strict
justice.

At that time there was a cheap edition of Byron's works in contemplation, meant to bring them
into circulation among the masses, and the pathos arising from the story of his domestic misfortunes
was one great means relied on for giving it currency.

Under these circumstances some of Lady Byron's friends had proposed the question to her whether
she had not a responsibility to society for the truth; whether she did right to allow these
persons to gain influence over the popular mind by a silent consent to an utter falsehood.
As her whole life had been passed in the most heroic self- abnegation and self sacrifice, the
question was now proposed to her whether one more act of self-denial was not required of her,
namely, to declare the truth, no matter at what expense to her own feelings.

For this purpose she told me she wished to recount the whole story to a person in whom she
had confidence,--a person of another country, and out of the whole sphere of personal and local
feelings which might be supposed to influence those in the country and station in life where
the events really happened,--in order that I might judge whether anything more was required
of her in relation to this history.

The interview had almost the solemnity of a deathbed confession, and Lady Byron told me the
history which I have embodied in an article to appear in the "Atlantic Monthly." I have been
induced to prepare it by the run which the Guiccioli book is having, which is from first to
last an unsparing attack on Lady Byron's memory by Lord Byron's mistress.

When you have read my article, I want, not your advice as to whether the main facts shall be
told, for on this point I am so resolved that I frankly say advice would do me no good. But
you might help me, with your delicacy and insight, to make the manner of telling more perfect,
and I want to do it as wisely and well as such story can be told.

My post-office address after July 1st will be Westport Point, Bristol Co., Mass., care of Mrs.
I. M. Soule. The proof-sheets will be sent you by the publisher.

Very truly yours, H. B. STOWE.

In reply to the storm of controversy aroused by the publication of this article, Mrs. Stowe
made a more extended effort to justify the charges which she had brought against Lord Byron,
in a work published in 1869, "Lady Byron Vindicated." Immediately after the publication of
this work, she mailed a copy to Dr. Oliver Wendell Holmes, accompanied by the following note:--

BOSTON, May 19, 1869.

DEAR DOCTOR,--. . . In writing this book, which I now take the liberty of sending to you, I
have been in . . . a "critical place." It has been a strange, weird sort of experience, and
I have had not a word to say to anybody, though often thinking of you and wishing I could have
a little of your help and sympathy in getting out what I saw. I think of you very much, and
rejoice to see the hold your works get on England as well as this country, and I would give
more for your opinion than that of most folks. How often I have pondered your last letter to
me, and sent it to many (friends)! God bless you. Please accept for yourself and your good
wife, this copy.

From yours truly,

H. B. STOWE.

Mrs. Stowe also published in 1870, through Sampson Low & Son, of London, a volume for English
readers, "The History of the Byron Controversy." These additional volumes, however, do not
seem to have satisfied the public as a whole, and perhaps the expediency of the publication
of Mrs. Stowe's first article is doubtful, even to her most ardent admirers. The most that
can be hoped for, through the mention of the subject in this biography, is the vindication
of Mrs. Stowe's purity of motive and nobility of intention in bringing this painful matter
into notice.

While she was being on all hands effectively, and evidently in some quarters with rare satisfaction,
roundly abused for the article, and her consequent responsibility in bringing this unsavory
discussion so prominently before the public mind, she received the following letter from Dr.
0. W. Holmes:--

BOSTON, September 25, 1869.

MY DEAR MRS. STOWE,--I have been meaning to write to you for some time, but in the midst of
all the wild and virulent talk about the article in the "Atlantic," I felt as if there was
little to say until the first fury of the storm had blown over.

I think that we all perceive now that the battle is not to be fought here, but in England.
I have listened to a good deal of talk, always taking your side in a quiet way, backed very
heartily on one occasion by one of my most intellectual friends, reading all that came in my
way, and watching the course of opinion. And first, it was to be expected that the Guiccioli
fanciers would resent any attack on Lord Byron, and would highly relish the opportunity of
abusing one who, like yourself, had been identified with all those moral enterprises which
elevate the standard of humanity at large, and of womanhood in particular. After this scum
had worked itself off, there must necessarily follow a controversy, none the less sharp and
bitter, but not depending essentially on abuse. The first point the recusants got hold of was
the error of the two years which contrived to run the gauntlet of so many pairs of eyes. Some
of them were made happy by mouthing and shaking this between their teeth, as a poodle tears
round with a glove. This did not last long. No sensible person could believe for a moment you
were mistaken in the essential character of a statement every word of which would fall on the
ear of a listening friend like a drop of melted lead, and burn its scar deep into the memory.
That Lady Byron believed and told you the story will not be questioned by any but fools and
malignants. Whether her belief was well founded there may be positive evidence in existence
to show affirmatively. The fact that her statement is not peremptorily contradicted by those
most likely to be acquainted with the facts of the ease, is the one result so far which is
forcing itself into unwilling recognition. I have seen nothing, in the various hypotheses brought
forward, which did not to me involve a greater improbability than the presumption of guilt.
Take that, for witness, that Byron accused himself, through a spirit of perverse vanity, of
crimes he had not committed. How preposterous! He would stain the name of a sister, whom, on
the supposition of his innocence, he loved with angelic ardor as well as purity, by associating
it with such an infamous accusation. Suppose there are some anomalies hard to explain in Lady
Byron's conduct. Could a young and guileless woman, in the hands of such a man, be expected
to act in any given way, or would she not be likely to waver, to doubt, to hope, to contradict
herself, in the anomalous position in which, without experience, she found herself?

As to the intrinsic evidence contained in the poems, I think it confirms rather than contradicts
the hypothesis of guilt. I do not think that Butler's argument, and all the other attempts
at invalidation of the story, avail much in the face of the acknowledged fact that it was told
to various competent and honest witnesses, and remains without a satisfactory answer from those
most interested.

I know your firm self-reliance, and your courage to proclaim the truth when any good end is
to be served by it. It is to be expected that public opinion will be more or less divided as
to the expediency of this revelation. . . .

Hoping that you have recovered from your indisposition,

I am Faithfully yours,

0. W. HOLMES.

While undergoing the most unsparing and pitiless criticism and brutal insult, Mrs. Stowe received
the following sympathetic words from Mrs. Lewes (George Eliot):--

THE PRIORY, 21 NORTH BANK, December 10, 1869.

MY DEAR FRIEND,--. . . In the midst of your trouble I was often thinking of you, for I feared
that you were undergoing a considerable trial from the harsh and unfair judgments, partly the
fruit of hostility glad to find an opportunity for venting itself, and partly of that unthinking
cruelty which belongs to hasty anonymous journalism. For my own part, I should have preferred
that the Byron question should never have been brought before the public, because I think the
discussion of such subjects is injurious socially. But with regard to yourself, dear friend,
I feel sure that, in acting on a different basis of impressions, you were impelled by pure,
generous feeling. Do not think that I would have written to you of this point to express a
judgment. I am anxious only to convey to you a sense of my sympathy and confidence, such as
a kiss and a pressure of the hand could give if I were near you.

I trust that I shall hear a good account of Professor Stowe's health, as well as your own,
whenever you have time to write me a word or two. I shall not be so unreasonable as to expect
a long letter, for the hours of needful rest from writing become more and more precious as
the years go on, but some brief news of you and yours will be especially welcome just now.
Mr. Lewes unites with me in high regards to your husband and yourself, but in addition to that
I have the sister woman's privilege of saying that I am always

Your affectionate friend,

M. H. LEWES.

It is with a feeling of relief that we turn from one of the most disagreeable experiences of
Mrs. Stowe's life to one of the most delightful, namely, the warm friendship of one of the
most eminent women of this age, George Eliot.

There seems to have been some deep affinity of feeling that drew them closely together in spite
of diversity of intellectual tastes.

George Eliot's attention was first personally attracted to Mrs. Stowe in 1853, by means of
a letter which the latter had written to Mrs. Follen. Speaking of this incident she (George
Eliot) writes: "Mrs. Follen showed me a delightful letter which she has just had from Mrs.
Stowe, telling all about herself. She begins by saying, 'I am a little bit of a woman, rather
more than forty, as withered and dry as a pinch of snuff; never very well worth looking at
in my best days, and now a decidedly used-up article.' The whole letter is most fascinating,
and makes one love her." [Footnote: George Eliot's Life, edited by J. W. Cross, vol. i.]

The correspondence between these two notable women was begun by Mrs. Stowe, and called forth
the following extremely interesting letter from the distinguished English novelist:--

THE PRIORY, 21 NORTH BANK, May 8,1869.

MY DEAR FRIEND,--I value very highly the warrant to call you friend which your letter has given
me. It lay awaiting me on our return the other night from a nine weeks' absence in Italy, and
it made me almost wish that you could have a momentary vision of the discouragement,-- nay,
paralyzing despondency--in which many days of my writing life have been passed, in order that
you might fully understand the good I find in such sympathy as yours, in such an assurance
as you give me that my work has been worth doing. But I will not dwell on any mental sickness
of mine. The best joy your words give me is the sense of that sweet, generous feeling in you
which dictated them. I shall always be the richer because you have in this way made me know
you better. I must tell you that my first glimpse of you as a woman came through a letter of
yours, and charmed me very much. The letter was addressed to Mrs. Follen, and one morning I
called on her in London (how many years ago!); she was kind enough to read it to me, because
it contained a little history of your life, and a sketch of your domestic circumstances. I
remember thinking that it was very kind of you to write that long letter, in reply to inquiries
of one who was personally unknown to you; and, looking back with my present experience, I think
it was kinder than it then appeared, for at that time you must have been much oppressed with
the immediate results of your fame. I remember, too, that you wrote of your husband as one
who was richer in Hebrew and Greek than in pounds or shillings; and as an ardent scholar has
always been a character of peculiar interest to me, I have rarely had your image in my mind
without the accompanying image (more or less erroneous) of such a scholar by your side. I shall
welcome the fruit of his Goethe studies, whenever it comes.

I have good hopes that your fears are groundless as to the obstacles your new book ("Oldtown
Folks") may find here from its thorough American character. Most readers who are likely to
be really influenced by writing above the common order will find that special aspect an added
reason for interest and study; and I dare say you have long seen, as I am beginning to see
with new clearness, that if a book which has any sort of exquisiteness happens also to be a
popular, widely circulated book, the power over the social mind for any good is, after all,
due to its reception by a few appreciative natures, and is the slow result of radiation from
that narrow circle. I mean that you can affect a few souls, and that each of these in turn
may affect a few more, but that no exquisite book tells properly and directly on a multitude,
however largely it may be spread by type and paper. Witness the things the multitude will say
about it, if one is so unhappy as to be obliged to hear their sayings. I do not write this
cynically, but in pure sadness and pity. Both traveling abroad and staying at home among our
English sights and sports, one must continually feel how slowly the centuries work toward the
moral good of men, and that thought lies very close to what you say as to your wonder or conjecture
concerning my religious point of view. I believe that religion, too, has to be modified according
to the dominant phases; that a religion more perfect than any yet prevalent must express less
care of personal consolation, and the more deeply awing sense of responsibility to man springing
from sympathy with that which of all things is most certainly known to us,--the difficulty
of the human lot. Letters are necessarily narrow and fragmentary, and when one writes on wide
subjects, are likely to create more misunderstanding than illumination. But I have little anxiety
in writing to you, dear friend and fellow-laborer; for you have had longer experience than
I as a writer, and fuller experience as a woman, since you have borne children and known a
mother's history from the beginning. I trust your quick and long-taught mind as an interpreter
little liable to mistake me.

When you say, "We live in an orange grove, and are planting many more," and when I think you
must have abundant family love to cheer you, it seems to me that you must have a paradise about
you. But no list of circumstances will make a paradise. Nevertheless, I must believe that the
joyous, tender humor of your books clings about your more immediate life, and makes some of
that sunshine for yourself which you have given to us. I see the advertisement of "Oldtown
Folks," and shall eagerly expect it. That and every other new link between us will be reverentially
valued. With great devotion and regard,

Yours always,

M. L. LEWES.

Mrs. Stowe writes from Mandarin to George Eliot:--

MANDARIN, February 8, 1872.

DEAR FRIEND,--It is two years nearly since I had your last very kind letter, and I have never
answered, because two years of constant and severe work have made it impossible to give a drop
to anything beyond the needs of the hour. Yet I have always thought of you, loved you, trusted
you all the same, and read every little scrap from your writing that came to hand.

One thing brings you back to me. I am now in Florida in my little hut in the orange orchard,
with the broad expanse of the blue St. John's in front, and the waving of the live-oaks, with
their long, gray mosses, overhead, and the bright gold of oranges looking through dusky leaves
around. It is like Sorrento,--so like that I can quite dream of being there. And when I get
here I enter another life. The world recedes; I am out of it; it ceases to influence; its bustle
and noise die away in the far distance; and here is no winter, an open-air life,--a quaint,
rude, wild wilderness sort of life, both rude and rich; but when I am here I write more letters
to friends than ever I do elsewhere. The mail comes only twice a week, and then is the event
of the day. My old rabbi and I here set up our tent, he with German, and Greek, and Hebrew,
devouring all sorts of black-letter books, and I spinning ideal webs out of bits that he lets
fall here and there.

I have long thought that I would write you again when I got here, and so I do. I have sent
North to have them send me the "Harper's Weekly," in which your new story is appearing, and
have promised myself leisurely to devour and absorb every word of it.

While I think of it I want to introduce to you a friend of mine, a most noble man, Mr. Owen,
for some years our ambassador at Naples, now living a literary and scholar life in America.
His father was Robert Dale Owen, the theorist and communist you may have heard of in England
some years since.

Years ago, in Naples, I visited Mr. Owen for the first time, and found him directing his attention
to the phenomena of spiritism. He had stumbled upon some singular instances of it accidentally,
and he had forthwith instituted a series of researches and experiments on the subject, some
of which he showed me. It was the first time I had ever seriously thought of the matter, and
he invited my sister and myself to see some of the phenomena as exhibited by a medium friend
of theirs who resided in their family. The result at the time was sufficiently curious, but
I was interested in his account of the manner in which he proceeded, keeping records of every
experiment with its results, in classified orders. As the result of his studies and observations,
he has published two books, one "Footfalls on the Boundary of Another World," published in
1860, and latterly, "The Debatable Land Between this World and the Next." I regard Mr. Owen
as one of the few men who are capable of entering into an inquiry of this kind without an utter
drowning of common sense, and his books are both of them worth a fair reading. To me they present
a great deal that is intensely curious and interesting, although I do not admit, of course,
all his deductions, and think he often takes too much for granted. Still, with every abatement
there remains a residuum of fact, which I think both curious and useful. In a late letter to
me he says :--

"There is no writer of the present day whom I more esteem than Mrs. Lewes, nor any one whose
opinion of my work I should more highly value."

I believe he intends sending them to you, and I hope you will read them. Lest some of the narratives
should strike you, as such narratives did me once, as being a perfect Arabian Nights' Entertainment,
I want to say that I have accidentally been in the way of confirming some of the most remarkable
by personal observation.

. . . In regard to all this class of subjects, I am of the opinion of Goethe, that "it is just
as absurd to deny the facts of spiritualism now as it was in the Middle Ages to ascribe them
to the Devil." I think Mr. Owen attributes too much value to his facts. I do not think the
things contributed from the ultra-mundane sphere are particularly valuable, apart from the
evidence they give of continued existence after death.

I do not think there is yet any evidence to warrant the idea that they are a supplement or
continuation of the revelations of Christianity, but I do regard them as an interesting and
curious study in psychology, and every careful observer like Mr. Owen ought to be welcomed
to bring in his facts. With this I shall send you my observations on Mr. Owen's books, from
the "Christian Union." I am perfectly aware of the frivolity and worthlessness of much of the
revealings purporting to come from spirits. In my view, the worth or worthlessness of them
has nothing to do with the question of fact.

Do invisible spirits speak in any wise,--wise or foolish?--is the question a priori. I do not
know of any reason why there should not be as many foolish virgins in the future state as in
this. As I am a believer in the Bible and Christianity, I don't need these things as confirmations,
and they are not likely to be a religion to me. I regard them simply as I do the phenomena
of the Aurora Borealis, or Darwin's studies on natural selection, as curious studies into nature.
Besides, I think some day we shall find a law by which all these facts will fall into their places.

I hope now this subject does not bore you: it certainly is one that seems increasingly to insist
on getting itself heard. It is going on and on, making converts, who are many more than dare
avow themselves, and for my part I wish it were all brought into the daylight of inquiry.

Let me hear from you if ever you feel like it. I know too well the possibilities and impossibilities
of a nature like yours to ask more, but it can do you no harm to know that I still think of
you and love you as ever.

Faithfully yours,

H. B. STOWE.

THE PRIORY, 21 NORTH BANK, REGENT'S PARK, March 4, 1872.

DEAR, FRIEND,--I can understand very easily that the two last years have been full for you
of other and more imperative work than the writing of letters not absolutely demanded either
by charity or business. The proof that you still think of me affectionately is very welcome
now it has come, and more cheering because it enables me to think of you as enjoying your retreat
in your orange orchard,--your western Sorrento--the beloved rabbi still beside you. I am sure
it must be a great blessing to you to bathe in that quietude, as it always is to us when we
go out of reach of London influences and have the large space of country days to study, walk,
and talk in. . . .

When I am more at liberty I will certainly read Mr. Owen's books, if he is good enough to send
them to me. I desire on all subjects to keep an open mind, but hitherto the various phenomena,
reported or attested in connection with ideas of spirit intercourse and so on, have come before
me here in the painful form of the lowest charlatanerie. . . .

But apart from personal contact with people who get money by public exhibitions as mediums,
or with semi-idiots such as those who make a court for a Mrs. ----, or other feminine personages
of that kind, I would not willingly place any barriers between my mind and any possible channel
of truth affecting the human lot. The spirit in which you have written in the paper you kindly
sent me is likely to touch others, and arouse them at least to attention in a case where you
have been deeply impressed. . . .

Yours with sincere affection,

M. L. LEWES.

(Begun April 4th.)

MANDARIN, FLORIDA, May 11,1872.

MY DEAR FRIEND,--I was very glad to get your dear little note,--sorry to see by it that you
are not in your full physical force. Owing to the awkwardness and misunderstanding of publishers,
I am not reading "Middlemarch," as I expected to be, here in these orange shades: they don't
send it, and I am too far out of the world to get it. I felt, when I read your letters, how
glad I should be to have you here in our Florida cottage, in the wholly new, wild, woodland
life. Though resembling Italy in climate, it is wholly different in the appearance of nature,--the
plants, the birds, the animals, all different. The green tidiness and culture of England here
gives way to a wild and rugged savageness of beauty. Every tree bursts forth with flowers;
wild vines and creepers execute delirious gambols, and weave and interweave in interminable
labyrinths. Yet here, in the great sandy plains back of our house, there is a constant wondering
sense of beauty in the wild, wonderful growths of nature. First of all, the pines--high as
the stone pines of Italy--with long leaves, eighteen inches long, through which there is a
constant dreamy sound, as if of dashing waters. Then the live-oaks and the water-oaks, narrow-leaved
evergreens, which grow to enormous size, and whose branches are draped with long festoons of
the gray moss. There is a great, wild park of these trees back of us, which, with the dazzling,
varnished green of the new spring leaves and the swaying drapery of moss, looks like a sort
of enchanted grotto. Underneath grow up hollies and ornamental flowering shrubs, and the yellow
jessamine climbs into and over everything with fragrant golden bells and buds, so that sometimes
the foliage of a tree is wholly hidden in its embrace.

This wild, wonderful, bright and vivid growth, that is all new, strange, and unknown by name
to me, has a charm for me. It is the place to forget the outside world, and live in one's self.
And if you were here, we would go together and gather azaleas, and white lilies, and silver
bells, and blue iris. These flowers keep me painting in a sort of madness. I have just finished
a picture of white lilies that grow in the moist land by the watercourses. I am longing to
begin on blue iris. Artist, poet, as you are by nature, you ought to see all these things,
and if you would come here I would take you in heart and house, and you should have a little
room in our cottage. The history of the cottage is this: I found a hut built close to a great
live-oak twenty-five feet in girth, and with overarching boughs eighty feet up in the air,
spreading like a firmament, and all swaying with mossy festoons. We began to live here, and
gradually we improved the hut by lath, plaster, and paper. Then we threw out a wide veranda
all round, for in these regions the veranda is the living-room of the house. Ours had to be
built around the trunk of the tree, so that our cottage has a peculiar and original air, and
seems as if it were half tree, or a something that had grown out of the tree. We added on parts,
and have thrown out gables and chambers, as a tree throws out new branches, till our cottage
is like nobody else's, and yet we settle into it with real enjoyment. There are all sorts of
queer little rooms in it, and we are accommodating at this present a family of seventeen souls.
In front, the beautiful, grand St. John's stretches five miles from shore to shore, and we
watch the steamboats plying back and forth to the great world we are out of. On all sides,
large orange trees, with their dense shade and ever-vivid green, shut out the sun so that we
can sit, and walk, and live in the open air. Our winter here is only cool, bracing out-door
weather, without snow. No month without flowers blooming in the open air, and lettuce and peas
in the garden. The summer range is about 90°, but the sea-breezes keep the air delightfully
fresh. Generally we go North, however, for three months of summer. Well, I did not mean to
run on about Florida, but the subject runs away with me, and I want you to visit us in spirit
if not personally.

My poor rabbi!--he sends you some Arabic, which I fear you cannot read: on diablerie he is
up to his ears in knowledge, having read all things in all tongues, from the Talmud down. . . .

Ever lovingly yours,

H. B. STOWE.

BOSTON, September 26, 1872.

MY DEAR FRIEND,--I think when you see my name again so soon, you will think it rains, hails,
and snows notes from this quarter. Just now, however, I am in this lovely, little nest in Boston,
where dear Mrs. Field, like a dove, "sits brooding on the charmed wave." We are both wishing
we had you here with us, and she has not received any answer from you as yet in reply to the
invitation you spoke of in your last letter to me. It seems as if you must have written, and
the letter somehow gone astray, because I know, of course, you would write. Yesterday we were
both out of our senses with mingled pity and indignation at that dreadful stick of a Casaubon,--and
think of poor Dorothea dashing like a warm, sunny wave against so cold and repulsive a rock!
He is a little too dreadful for anything: there does not seem to be a drop of warm blood in
him, and so, as it is his misfortune and not his fault, to be cold-blooded, one must not get
angry with him. It is the scene in the garden, after the interview with the doctor, that rests
on our mind at this present. There was such a man as he over in Boston, high in literary circles,
but I fancy his wife wasn't like Dorothea, and a vastly proper time they had of it, treating
each other with mutual reverence, like two Chinese mandarins.

My love, what I miss in this story is just what we would have if you would come to our tumble-down,
jolly, improper, but joyous country,-- namely, "jollitude." You write and live on so high a
plane! It is all self-abnegation. We want to get you over here, and into this house, where,
with closed doors, we sometimes make the rafters ring with fun, and say anything and everything,
no matter what, and won't be any properer than we's a mind to be. I am wishing every day you
could see our America,--travel, as I have been doing, from one bright, thriving, pretty, flowery
town to another, and see so much wealth, ease, progress, culture, and all sorts of nice things.
This dovecot where I now am is the sweetest little nest imaginable; fronting on a city street,
with back windows opening on a sea view, with still, quiet rooms filled with books, pictures,
and all sorts of things, such as you and Mr. Lewes would enjoy. Don't be afraid of the ocean,
now! I 've crossed it six times, and assure you it is an overrated item. Froude is coming here--why
not you? Besides, we have the fountain of eternal youth here, that is, in Florida, where I
live, and if you should come you would both of you take a new lease of life, and what glorious
poems, and philosophies, and whatnot, we should have! My rabbi writes, in the seventh heaven,
an account of your note to him. To think of his setting-off on his own account when I was away!

Come now, since your answer to dear Mrs. Fields is yet to come; let it be a glad yes, and we
will clasp you to our heart of hearts.

Your ever loving, H. B. S.

During the summer of 1874, while Mrs. Stowe's brother, the Rev. Henry Ward Beecher, was the
victim of a most revolting, malicious, and groundless attack on his purity, Mrs. Lewes wrote
the following words of sympathy:--

MY DEAR, FRIEND,--The other day I had a letter from Mrs. Fields, written to let me know something
of you under that heavy trouble, of which such information as I have had has been quite untrustworthy,
leaving me in entire incredulity in regard to it except on this point, that you and yours must
be suffering deeply. Naturally I thought most of you in the matter (its public aspects being
indeterminate), and many times before our friend's letter came I had said to Mr. Lewes: "What
must Mrs. Stowe be feeling!" I remember Mrs. Fields once told me of the wonderful courage and
cheerfulness which belonged to you, enabling you to bear up under exceptional trials, and I
imagined you helping the sufferers with tenderness and counsel, but yet, nevertheless, I felt
that there must be a bruising weight on your heart. Dear, honored friend, you who are so ready
to give warm fellowship, is it any comfort to you to be told that those afar off are caring
for you in spirit, and will be happier for all good issues that may bring you rest?

I cannot, dare not, write more in my ignorance, lest I should be using unreasonable words.
But I trust in your not despising this scrap of paper which tells you, perhaps rather for my
relief than yours, that I am always in grateful, sweet remembrance of your goodness to me and
your energetic labors for all.

It was two years or more before Mrs. Stowe replied to these words of sympathy.

Orange-blossom time, MANDARIN, March 18, 1876,

My Dear Friend,--I always think of you when the orange trees are in blossom; just now they
are fuller than ever, and so many bees are filling the branches that the air is full of a sort
of still murmur. And now I am beginning to hear from you every month in Harper's. It is as
good as a letter. "Daniel Deronda" has succeeded in awaking in my somewhat worn-out mind an
interest. So many stories are tramping over one's mind in every modern magazine nowadays that
one is macadamized, so to speak. It takes something unusual to make a sensation. This does
excite and interest me, as I wait for each number with eagerness. I wish I could endow you
with our long winter weather,--not winter, except such as you find in Sicily. We live here
from November to June, and my husband sits outdoors on the veranda and reads all day. We emigrate
in solid family: my two dear daughters, husband, self, and servants come together to spend
the winter here, and so together to our Northern home in summer. My twin daughters relieve
me from all domestic care; they are lively, vivacious, with a real genius for practical life.
We have around us a little settlement of neighbors, who like ourselves have a winter home here,
and live an easy, undress, picnic kind of life, far from the world and its cares. Mr. Stowe
has been busy on eight volumes of Görres on the mysticism of the Middle Ages. [Footnote: Die
Christliche Mystik.] This Görres was Professor of Philosophy at Munich, and he reviews the
whole ground of the shadow-land between the natural and the supernatural,--ecstacy, trance,
prophecy, miracles, spiritualism, the stigmata, etc. He was a devout Roman Catholic, and the
so-called facts that he reasons on seem to me quite amazing; and yet the possibilities that
lie between inert matter and man's living, all-powerful, immortal soul may make almost anything
credible. The soul at times can do anything with matter. I have been busying myself with Sainte-Beuve's
seven volumes on the Port Royal development. I like him (Sainte-Beuve). His capacity of seeing,
doing justice to all kinds of natures and sentiments, is wonderful. I am sorry he is no longer
our side the veil.

There is a redbird (cardinal grosbeak) singing in the orange trees fronting my window, so sweetly
and insistently as to almost stop my writing. I hope, dear friend, you are well--better than
when you wrote last.

It was very sweet and kind of you to write what you did last. I suppose it is so long ago you
may have forgotten, but it was a word of tenderness and sympathy about my brother's trial;
it was womanly, tender, and sweet, such as at heart you are. After all, my love of you is greater
than my admiration, for I think it more and better to be really a woman worth loving than to
have read Greek and German and written books. And in this last book I read, I feel more with
you in some little, fine points,--they stare at me as making an amusing exhibition. For, my
dear, I feel myself at last as one who has been playing and picnicking on the shores of life,
and waked from a dream late in the afternoon to find that everybody almost has gone over to
the beyond. And the rest are sorting their things and packing their trunks, and waiting for
the boat to come and take them.

It seems now but a little time since my brother Henry and I were two young people together.
He was my two years junior, and nearest companion out of seven brothers and three sisters.
I taught him drawing and heard his Latin lessons, for you know a girl becomes mature and womanly
long before a boy. I saw him through college, and helped him through the difficult love affair
that gave him his wife; and then he and my husband had a real German, enthusiastic love for
each other, which ended in making me a wife. Ah! in those days we never dreamed that he, or
I, or any of us, were to be known in the world. All he seemed then was a boy full of fun, full
of love, full of enthusiasm for protecting abused and righting wronged people, which made him
in those early days write editorials, and wear arms and swear himself a special policeman to
protect the poor negroes in Cincinnati, where we then lived, when there were mobs instigated
by the slaveholders of Kentucky.

Then he married, and lived a missionary life in the new West, all with a joyousness, an enthusiasm,
a chivalry, which made life bright and vigorous to us both. Then in time he was called to Brooklyn,
just as the crisis of the great anti-slavery battle came on, and the Fugitive Slave Law was
passed. I was then in Maine, and I well remember one snowy night his riding till midnight to
see me, and then our talking, till near morning, what we could do to make headway against the
horrid cruelties that were being practiced against the defenseless blacks. My husband was then
away lecturing, and my heart was burning itself out in indignation and anguish. Henry told
me then that he meant to fight that battle in New York; that he would have a church that would
stand by him to resist the tyrannic dictation of Southern slaveholders. I said: "I, too, have
begun to do something; I have begun a story, trying to set forth the sufferings and wrongs
of the slaves." "That's right, Hattie," he said; "finish it, and I will scatter it thick as
the leaves of Vallambrosa," and so came "Uncle Tom," and Plymouth Church became a stronghold
where the slave always found refuge and a strong helper. One morning my brother found sitting
on his doorstep poor old Paul Edmonson, weeping; his two daughters, of sixteen and eighteen,
had passed into the slave warehouse of Bruin & Hill, and were to be sold. My brother took the
man by the hand to a public meeting, told his story for him, and in an hour raised the two
thousand dollars to redeem his children. Over and over again, afterwards, slaves were redeemed
at Plymouth Church, and Henry and Plymouth Church became words of hatred and fear through half
the Union. From that time until we talked together about the Fugitive Slave Law, there was
not a pause or stop in the battle till we had been through the war and slavery had been wiped
out in blood. Through all he has been pouring himself out, wrestling, burning, laboring everywhere,
making stump speeches when elections turned on the slave question, and ever maintaining that
the cause of Christ was the cause of the slave. And when all was over, it was he and Lloyd
Garrison who were sent by government once more to raise our national flag on Fort Sumter. You
must see that a man does not so energize without making many enemies. Half of our Union has
been defeated, a property of millions annihilated by emancipation, a proud and powerful slave
aristocracy reduced to beggary, and there are those who never saw our faces that, to this hour,
hate him and me. Then he has been a progressive in theology. He has been a student of Huxley,
and Spencer, and Darwin,--enough to alarm the old school,--and yet remained so ardent a supernaturalist
as equally to repel the radical destructionists in religion. He and I are Christ-worshippers,
adoring Him as the Image of the Invisible God and all that comes from believing this. Then
he has been a reformer, an advocate of universal suffrage and woman's rights, yet not radical
enough to please that reform party who stand where the Socialists of France do, and are for
tearing up all creation generally. Lastly, he has had the misfortune of a popularity which
is perfectly phenomenal. I cannot give you any idea of the love, worship, idolatry, with which
he has been overwhelmed. He has something magnetic about him that makes everybody crave his
society,--that makes men follow and worship him. I remember being at his house one evening
in the time of early flowers, and in that one evening came a box of flowers from Maine, another
from New Jersey, another from Connecticut,--all from people with whom he had no personal acquaintance,
who had read something of his and wanted to send him some token. I said, "One would think you
were a prima donna. What does make people go on so about you?"

My brother is hopelessly generous and confiding. His inability to believe evil is something
incredible, and so has come all this suffering. You said you hoped I should be at rest when
the first investigating committee and Plymouth Church cleared my brother almost by acclamation.
Not so. The enemy have so committed themselves that either they or he must die, and there has
followed two years of the most dreadful struggle. First, a legal trial of six months, the expenses
of which on his side were one hundred and eighteen thousand dollars, and in which he and his
brave wife sat side by side in the court-room, and heard all that these plotters, who had been
weaving their webs for three years, could bring. The foreman of the jury was offered a bribe
of ten thousand dollars to decide against my brother. He sent the letter containing the proposition
to the judge. But with all their plotting, three fourths of the jury decided against them,
and their case was lost. It was accepted as a triumph by my brother's friends; a large number
of the most influential clergy of all denominations so expressed themselves in a public letter,
and it was hoped the thing was so far over that it might be lived down and overgrown with better
things.

But the enemy, intriguing secretly with all those parties in the community who wish to put
down a public and too successful man, have been struggling to bring the thing up again for
an ecclesiastical trial. The cry has been raised in various religious papers that Plymouth
Church was in complicity with crime,--that they were so captivated with eloquence and genius
that they refused to make competent investigation. The six months' legal investigation was
insufficient; a new trial was needed. Plymouth Church immediately called a council of ministers
and laymen, in number representing thirty-seven thousand Congregational Christians, to whom
Plymouth Church surrendered her records,--her conduct,--all the facts of the case, and this
great council unanimously supported the church and ratified her decision; recognizing the fact
that, in all the investigations hitherto, nothing had been proved against my brother. They
at his request, and that of Plymouth Church, appointed a committee of five to whom within sixty
days any one should bring any facts that they could prove, or else forever after hold their
peace. It is thought now by my brother's friends that this thing must finally reach a close.
But you see why I have not written. This has drawn on my life--my heart's blood. He is myself;
I know you are the kind of woman to understand me when I say that I felt a blow at him more
than at myself. I, who know his purity, honor, delicacy, know that he has been from childhood
of an ideal purity,--who reverenced his conscience as his king, whose glory was redressing
human wrong, who spake no slander, no, nor listened to it.

Never have I known a nature of such strength, and such almost childlike innocence. He is of
a nature so sweet and perfect that, though I have seen him thunderously indignant at moments,
I never saw him fretful or irritable,--a man who continuously, in every little act of life,
is thinking of others, a man that all the children on the street run after, and that every
sorrowful, weak, or distressed person looks to as a natural helper. In all this long history
there has been no circumstance of his relation to any woman that has not been worthy of himself,--pure,
delicate, and proper; and I know all sides of it, and certainly should not say this if there
were even a misgiving. Thank God, there is none, and I can read my New Testament and feel that
by all the beatitudes my brother is blessed.

His calmness, serenity, and cheerfulness through all this time has uplifted us all. Where he
was, there was no anxiety, no sorrow. My brother's power to console is something peculiar and
wonderful. I have seen him at death-beds and funerals, where it would seem as if hope herself
must be dumb, bring down the very peace of Heaven and change despair to trust. He has not had
less power in his own adversity. You cannot conceive how he is beloved, by those even who never
saw him, --old, paralytic, distressed, neglected people, poor seamstresses, black people, who
have felt these arrows shot against their benefactor as against themselves, and most touching
have been their letters of sympathy. From the first, he has met this in the spirit of Francis
de Sales, who met a similar plot,--by silence, prayer, and work, and when urged to defend himself
said "God would do it in his time." God was the best judge how much reputation he needed to
serve Him with.

In your portrait of Deronda, you speak of him as one of those rare natures in whom a private
wrong bred no bitterness. "The sense of injury breeds, not the will to inflict injuries, but
a hatred of all injury;" and I must say, through all this conflict my brother has been always
in the spirit of Him who touched and healed the ear of Malchus when he himself was attacked.
His friends and lawyers have sometimes been aroused and sometimes indignant with his habitual
caring for others, and his habit of vindicating and extending even to his enemies every scrap
and shred of justice that might belong to them. From first to last of this trial, he has never
for a day intermitted his regular work. Preaching to crowded houses, preaching even in his
short vacations at watering places, carrying on his missions which have regenerated two once
wretched districts of the city, editing a paper, and in short giving himself up to work. He
cautioned his church not to become absorbed in him and his trials, to prove their devotion
by more faithful church work and a wider charity; and never have the Plymouth missions among
the poor been so energetic and effective. He said recently, "The worst that can befall a man
is to stop thinking of God and begin to think of himself; if trials make us self-absorbed,
they hurt us." Well, dear, pardon me for this outpour. I loved you--I love you--and therefore
wanted you to know just what I felt. Now, dear, this is over, don't think you must reply to
it or me. I know how much you have to do,--yes, I know all about an aching head and an overtaxed
brain. This last work of yours is to be your best, I think, and I hope it will bring you enough
to buy an orange grove in Sicily, or somewhere else, and so have lovely weather such as we have.

Your ancient admirer, [Footnote: Professor Stowe.] who usually goes to bed at eight o'clock,
was convicted by me of sitting up after eleven over the last installment of "Daniel Deronda,"
and he is full of it. We think well of Guendoline, and that she isn't much more than young
ladies in general so far.

Next year, if I can possibly do it, I will send you some of our oranges. I perfectly long to
have you enjoy them. Your very loving

H. B. STOWE.

P. S. I am afraid I shall write you again when I am reading your writings, they are so provokingly
suggestive of things one wants to say

H. B. S.

In her reply to this letter Mrs. Lewes says, incidentally: 'Please offer my reverential love
to the Professor, and tell him I am ruthlessly proud of having kept him out of his bed. I hope
that both you and he will continue to be interested in my spiritual children.'

After Mr. Lewes's death, Mrs. Lewes writes to Mrs. Stowe:--

The Priory, 21 North Bank, April 10, 1879.

My Dear Friend,--I have been long without sending you any sign (unless you have received a
message from me through Mrs. Fields), but my heart has been going out to you and your husband
continually as among the chief of the many kind beings who have given me their tender fellow-
feeling in my last earthly sorrow. . . . When your first letter came, with the beautiful gift
of your book, [Footnote: Uncle Tom's Cabin, new edition, with introduction.] I was unable to
read any letters, and did not for a long time see what you had sent me. But when I did know,
and had read your words of thankfulness at the great good you have seen wrought by your help,
I felt glad, for your sake first, and then for the sake of the great nation to which you belong.
The hopes of the world are taking refuge westward, under the calamitous conditions, moral and
physical, in which we of the elder world are getting involved. . . .

Thank you for telling me that you have the comfort of seeing your son in a path that satisfies
your best wishes for him. I like to think of your having family joys. One of the prettiest
photographs of a child that I possess is one of your sending to me. . . .

Please offer my reverential, affectionate regards to your husband, and believe me, dear friend,

Yours always gratefully,

M. L. Lewes.

As much as has been said with regard to spiritualism in these pages, the subject has by no
means the prominence that it really possessed in the studies and conversations of both Professor
and Mrs. Stowe.

Professor Stowe's very remarkable psychological development, and the exceptional experiences
of his early life, were sources of conversation of unfailing interest and study to both.

Professor Stowe had made an elaborate and valuable collection of the literature of the subject,
and was, as Mrs. Stowe writes, "over head and ears in diablerie."

It is only just to give Mrs. Stowe's views on this perplexing theme more at length, and as
the mature reflection of many years has caused them to take form.

In reference to professional mediums, and spirits that peep, rap, and mutter, she writes:--

"Each friend takes away a portion of ourselves. There was some part of our being related to
him as to no other, and we had things to say to him which no other would understand or appreciate.
A portion of our thoughts has become useless and burdensome, and again and again, with involuntary
yearning, we turn to the stone at the door of the sepulchre. We lean against the cold, silent
marble, but there is no answer,--no voice, neither any that regardeth.

"There are those who would have us think that in our day this doom is reversed; that there
are those who have the power to restore to us the communion of our lost ones. How many a heart,
wrung and tortured with the anguish of this fearful silence, has throbbed with strange, vague
hopes at the suggestion! When we hear sometimes of persons of the strongest and clearest minds
becoming credulous votaries of certain spiritualist circles, let us not wonder: if we inquire,
we shall almost always find that the belief has followed some stroke of death; it is only an
indication of the desperation of that heart-hunger which in part it appeases.

"Ah, were it true! Were it indeed so that the wall between the spiritual and material is growing
thin, and a new dispensation germinating in which communion with the departed blest shall be
among the privileges and possibilities of this our mortal state! Ah, were it so that when we
go forth weeping in the gray dawn, bearing spices and odors which we long to pour forth for
the beloved dead, we should indeed find the stone rolled away and an angel sitting on it!

"But for us the stone must be rolled away by an unquestionable angel, whose countenance is
as the lightning, who executes no doubtful juggle by pale moonlight or starlight, but rolls
back the stone in fair, open morning, and sits on it. Then we could bless God for his mighty
gift, and with love, and awe, and reverence take up that blessed fellowship with another life,
and weave it reverently and trustingly into the web of our daily course.

"But no such angel have we seen,--no such sublime, unquestionable, glorious manifestation.
And when we look at what is offered to us, ah! who that had a friend in heaven could wish them
to return in such wise as this? The very instinct of a sacred sorrow seems to forbid that our
beautiful, our glorified ones should stoop lower than even to the medium of their cast-off
bodies, to juggle, and rap, and squeak, and perform mountebank tricks with tables and chairs;
to recite over in weary sameness harmless truisms, which we were wise enough to say for ourselves;
to trifle, and banter, and jest, or to lead us through endless moonshiny mazes. Sadly and soberly
we say that, if this be communion with the dead, we had rather be without it. We want something
a little in advance of our present life, and not below it. We have read with some attention
weary pages of spiritual communication purporting to come from Bacon, Swedenborg, and others,
and long accounts from divers spirits of things seen in the spirit land, and we can conceive
of no more appalling prospect than to have them true.

"If the future life is so weary, stale, flat, and unprofitable as we might infer from these
readings, one would have reason to deplore an immortality from which no suicide could give
an outlet. To be condemned to such eternal prosing would be worse than annihilation.

"Is there, then, no satisfaction for this craving of the soul? This is a promise direct and
personal; not confined to the first apostles, but stated in the most general way as attainable
by any one who loves and does the will of Jesus. It seems given to us as some comfort for the
unavoidable heart-breaking separations of death that there should be, in that dread unknown,
one all-powerful Friend with whom it is possible to commune, and from whose spirit there may
come a response to us. Our Elder Brother, the partaker of our nature, is not only in the spirit
land, but is all-powerful there. It is he that shutteth and no man openeth, and openeth and
no man shutteth. He whom we have seen in the flesh, weeping over the grave of Lazarus, is he
who hath the keys of hell and of death. If we cannot commune with our friends, we can at least
commune with Him to whom they are present, who is intimately with them as with us. He is the
true bond of union between the spirit world and our souls; and one blest hour of prayer, when
we draw near to Him and feel the breadth, and length, and depth, and heighth of that love of
his that passeth knowledge, is better than all those incoherent, vain, dreamy glimpses with
which longing hearts are cheated.

"They who have disbelieved all spiritual truth, who have been Sadduceeic doubters of either
angel or spirit, may find in modern spiritualism a great advance. But can one who has ever
really had communion with Christ, who has said with John, "Truly our fellowship is with the
Father and the Son,"--can such an one be satisfied with what is found in the modern circle?
We must confess that all those spirits that yet have spoken appear to be living in quite another
sphere from. John or Paul.

"Let us, then, who long for communion with spirits, seek nearness to Him who has promised to
speak and commune, leaving forever this word to his church:--

"'I will not leave you comfortless. I will come to you.'"

Besides the annual journeys to and from Florida, and her many interests in the South, Mrs.
Stowe's time between 1870 and 1880 was largely occupied by literary and kindred labors. In
the autumn of 1871 we find her writing to her daughters as follows regarding her work:--

"I have at last finished all my part in the third book of mine that is to come out this year,
to wit 'Oldtown Fireside Stories,' and you can have no idea what a perfect luxury of rest it
is to be free from all literary engagements, of all kinds, sorts, or descriptions. I feel like
a poor woman I once read about,--

  "'Who always was tired,
  'Cause she lived in a house
  Where help wasn't hired,'

and of whom it is related that in her dying moments,

  'She folded her hands
  With her latest endeavor,
  Saying nothing, dear nothing,
  Sweet nothing forever.'

 "I am in about her state of mind. I luxuriate in laziness. I do not
want to do anything or go anywhere. I only want to sink down into lazy
enjoyment of living."

She was certainly well entitled to a rest, for never had there been a more laborious literary
life. In addition to the twenty-three books already written, she had prepared for various magazines
and journals an incredible number of short stories, letters of travel, essays, and other articles.
Yet with all she had accomplished, and tired as she was, she still had seven books to write,
besides many more short stories, before her work should be done. As her literary life did not
really begin until 1852, the bulk of her work has been accomplished within twenty-six years,
as will be seen from the following list of her books, arranged in the chronological order of
their publication:--

 1833. An Elementary Geography.
 1843. The Mayflower.
 1852. Uncle Tom's Cabin.
 1853. Key to Uncle Tom's Cabin.
 1854. Sunny Memories.
 1856. Dred.
 1858. Our Charley.
 1859. Minister's Wooing.
 1862. Pearl of Orr's Island.
 1863. Agnes of Sorrento.
 1864. House and Home Papers.
 1865. Little Foxes.
 1866. Nina Gordon (Formerly "Dred").
 1867. Religious Poems.
 1867. Queer Little People.
 1868. The Chimney Corner.
 1868. Men of Our Times.
 1869. Oldtown Folks.
 1870. Lady Byron Vindicated.
 1871. The History of the Byron Controversy (London).
 1870. Little Pussy Willow.
 1871. Pink and White Tyranny.
 1871. Old Town Fireside Stories.
 1872. My Wife and I.
 1873. Palmetto Leaves.
 1873. Library of Famous Fiction.
 1875. We and Our Neighbors.
 1876. Betty's Bright Idea.
 1877. Footsteps of the Master.
 1878. Bible Heroines.
 1878. Poganuc People.
 1881. Dog's Mission.

In 1872 a new and remunerative field of labor was opened to Mrs. Stowe, and though it entailed
a vast amount of weariness and hard work, she entered it with her customary energy and enthusiasm.
It presented itself in the shape of an offer from the American Literary (Lecture) Bureau of
Boston to deliver a course of forty readings from her own works in the principal cities of
the New England States. The offer was a liberal one, and Mrs. Stowe accepted it on condition
that the reading tour should be ended in time to allow her to go to her Florida home in December.
This being acceded to, she set forth and gave her first reading in Bridgeport, Conn., on the
evening of September 19, 1872.

The following extracts from letters written to her husband while on this reading tour throw
some interesting gleams of light on the scenes behind the curtain of the lecturer's platform.
From Boston, October 3d, she writes: "Have had a most successful but fatiguing week. Read in
Cambridgeport to-night, and Newburyport to-morrow night." Two weeks later, upon receipt of
a letter from her husband, in which he fears he has not long to live, she writes from Westfield,
Mass:--

"I have never had a greater trial than being forced to stay away from you now. I would not,
but that my engagements have involved others in heavy expense, and should I fail to fulfill
them, it would be doing a wrong.

"God has given me strength as I needed it, and I never read more to my own satisfaction than
last night.

"Now, my dear husband, please do want, and try, to remain with us yet a while longer, and let
us have a little quiet evening together before either of us crosses the river. My heart cries
out for a home with you; our home together in Florida. Oh, may we see it again! Your ever loving
wife."

From Fitchburg, Mass., under date of October 29th, she writes:--

"In the cars, near Palmer, who should I discover but Mr. and Mrs. J. T. Fields, returning from
a Western trip, as gay as a troubadour. I took an empty seat next to them, and we had a jolly
ride to Boston. I drove to Mr. Williams's house, where I met the Chelsea agent, who informed
me that there was no hotel in Chelsea, but that they were expecting to send over for me. So
I turned at once toward 148 Charles Street, where I tumbled in on the Fields before they had
got their things off. We had a good laugh, and I received a hearty welcome. I was quickly installed
in my room, where, after a nice dinner, I curled up for my afternoon nap. At half-past seven
the carriage came for me, and I was informed that I should not have a hard reading, as they
had engaged singers to take part. So, when I got into the carriage, who should I find, beshawled,
and beflowered, and betoggled in blue satin and white lace, but our old friend ---- of Andover
concert memory, now become Madame Thingumbob, of European celebrity. She had studied in Italy,
come out in Milan, sung there in opera for a whole winter, and also in Paris and London.

"Well, she sings very sweetly and looks very nice and pretty. Then we had a little rosebud
of a Chelsea girl who sang, and a pianist. I read 'Minister's Housekeeper' and Topsy, and the
audience was very jolly and appreciative. Then we all jogged home."

The next letter finds Mrs. Stowe in Maine, and writing in the cars between Bangor and Portland.
She says:--

MY DEAR HUSBAND,--Well, Portland and Bangor are over, and the latter, which I had dreaded as
lonesome and far off, turned out the pleasantest of any place I have visited yet. I stayed
at the Fays; he was one of the Andover students, you remember; and found a warm, cosy, social
home. In the evening I met an appreciative audience, and had a delightful reading. I read Captain
Kittridge, apparently to the great satisfaction of the people, who laughed heartily at his
sea stories, and the "Minister's Housekeeper" with the usual success, also Eva and Topsy.

One woman, totally deaf, came to me afterwards and said: "Bless you. I come jist to see you.
I'd rather see you than the Queen." Another introduced her little girl named Harriet Beecher
Stowe, and another, older, named Eva. She said they had traveled fifty miles to hear me read.
An incident like that appeals to one's heart, does it not?

The people of Bangor were greatly embarrassed by the horse disease; but the mayor and his wife
walked over from their house, a long distance off, to bring me flowers, and at the reading
he introduced me. I had an excellent audience notwithstanding that it rained tremendously,
and everybody had to walk because there were no horses. The professors called on me, also Newman
Smith, now a settled minister here.

Everybody is so anxious about you, and Mr. Fay made me promise that you and I should come and
spend a week with them, next summer. Mr. Howard, in Portland, called upon me to inquire for
you, and everybody was so delighted to hear that you were getting better.

It stormed all the time I was in Portland and Bangor, so I saw nothing of them. Now I am in
a palace car riding alongside the Kennebec, and recalling the incidents of my trip. I certainly
had very satisfactory houses; and these pleasant little visits, and meetings with old acquaintance,
would be well worth having, even though I had made nothing in a pecuniary sense. On the whole
it is as easy a way of making money as I have ever tried, though no way of making money is
perfectly easy,--there must be some disagreeables. The lonesomeness of being at a hotel in
dull weather is one, and in Portland it seems there is nobody now to invite us to their homes.
Our old friends there are among the past. They have gone on over the river. I send you a bit
of poetry that pleases me. The love of the old for each other has its poetry. It is something
sacred and full of riches. I long to be with you, and to have some more of our good long talks.

The scenery along this river is very fine. The oaks still keep their leaves, though the other
trees are bare; but oaks and pines make a pleasant contrast. We shall stop twenty minutes at
Brunswick, so I shall get a glimpse of the old place.

Now we are passing through Hallowell, and the Kennebec changes sides. What a beautiful river!
It is now full of logs and rafts. Well, I must bring this to a close. Good-by, dear, with unchanging
love. Ever your wife.

From South Framingham, Mass., she writes on November 7th:--

Well, my dear, here I am in E.'s pretty little house. He has a pretty wife, a pretty sister,
a pretty baby, two nice little boys, and a lovely white cat. The last is a perfect beauty!
a Persian, from a stock brought over by Dr. Parker, as white as snow, with the softest fur,
a perfect bunch of loving-kindness, all purr and felicity. I had a good audience last evening,
and enjoyed it. My audiences, considering the horse disease and the rains, are amazing. And
how they do laugh! We get into regular gales.

E. has the real country minister turn-out: horse and buggy, and such a nice horse too. The
baby is a beauty, and giggles, and goos, and shouts inquiries with the rising inflection, in
the most inspiring manner.

November 13. Wakefield. I read in Haverhill last night. It was as usual stormy. I had a good
audience, but not springy and inspiriting like that at Waltham. Some audiences seem to put
spring into one, and some to take it out. This one seemed good but heavy. I had to lift them,
while in Framingham and Waltham they lifted me.

The Lord bless and keep you. It grieves me to think you are dull and I not with you. By and
by we will be together and stay together. Good-by dear. Your ever loving wife,

H. B. S. November 24. "I had a very pleasant reading in Peabody. While there visited the library
and saw the picture of the Queen that she had painted expressly for George Peabody. It was
about six inches square, enameled on gold, and set in a massive frame of solid gold and velvet.
The effect is like painting on ivory. At night the picture rolls back into a safe, and great
doors, closed with a combination lock, defend it. It reminded me of some of the foreign wonders
we have seen.

"Well, my course is almost done, and if I get through without any sickness, cold, or accident,
how wonderful it will seem. I have never felt the near, kind presence of our Heavenly Father
so much as in this. 'He giveth strength to the faint, and to them of no might He increaseth
strength.' I have found this true all my life."

From Newport she writes on November 26th:--

"It was a hard, tiring, disagreeable piece of business to read in New London. Had to wait three
mortal hours in Palmer. Then a slow, weary train, that did not reach New London until after
dark. There was then no time to rest, and I was so tired that it did seem as though I could
not dress. I really trembled with fatigue. The hall was long and dimly lighted, and the people
were not seated compactly, but around in patches. The light was dim, except for a great flaring
gas jet arranged right under my eyes on the reading desk, and I did not see a creature whom
I knew. I was only too glad when it was over and I was back again at my hotel. There I found
that I must be up at five o'clock to catch the Newport train.

"I started for this place in the dusk of a dreary, foggy morning. Traveled first on a ferry,
then in cars, and then in a little cold steamboat. Found no one to meet me, in spite of all
my writing, and so took a carriage and came to the hotel. The landlord was very polite to me,
said he knew me by my trunk, had been to our place in Mandarin, etc. All I wanted was a warm
room, a good bed, and unlimited time to sleep. Now I have had a three hours' nap, and here
I am, sitting by myself in the great, lonely hotel parlor.

"Well, dear old man, I think lots of you, and only want to end all this in a quiet home where
we can sing 'John Anderson, my Jo' together. I check off place after place as the captive the
days of his imprisonment. Only two more after to-night. Ever your loving wife."

Mrs. Stowe made one more reading tour the following year, and this time it was in the West.
On October 28, 1873, she writes from Zanesville, Ohio, to her son at Harvard:--

You have been very good to write as often as you have, and your letters, meeting me at different
points, have been most cheering. I have been tired, almost to the last degree. Read two successive
evenings in Chicago, and traveled the following day for thirteen hours, a distance of about
three hundred miles, to Cincinnati. We were compelled to go in the most uncomfortable cars
I ever saw, crowded to overflowing, a fiend of a stove at each end burning up all the air,
and without a chance to even lay my head down. This is the grand route between Chicago and
Cincinnati, and we were on it from eight in the morning until nearly ten at night.

Arrived at Cincinnati we found that George Beecher had not received our telegram, was not expecting
us, had no rooms engaged for us, and that we could not get rooms at his boarding-place. After
finding all this out we had to go to the hotel, where, about eleven o'clock, I crept into bed
with every nerve aching from fatigue. The next day was dark and rainy, and I lay in bed most
of it; but when I got up to go and read I felt only half rested, and was still so tired that
it seemed as though I could not get through.

Those who planned my engagements failed to take into account the fearful distances and wretched
trains out here. On none of these great Western routes is there a drawing-room car. Mr. Saunders
tried in every way to get them to put one on for us, but in vain. They are all reserved for
the night trains; so that there is no choice except to travel by night in sleeping cars, or
take such trains as I have described in the daytime.

I had a most sympathetic audience in Cincinnati; they all seemed delighted and begged me to
come again. The next day George took us for a drive out to Walnut Hills, where we saw the seminary
buildings, the house where your sisters were born, and the house in which we afterwards lived.
In the afternoon we had to leave and hurry away to a reading in Dayton. The next evening another
in Columbus, where we spent Sunday with an old friend.

By this time I am somewhat rested from the strain of that awful journey; but I shall never
again undertake such another. It was one of those things that have to be done once, to learn
not to do it again. My only reading between Columbus and Pittsburgh is to be here in Zanesville,
a town as black as Acheron, and where one might expect to see the river Styx.

Later. I had a nice audience and a pleasant reading here, and to-day we go on to Pittsburgh,
where I read to-morrow night.

I met the other day at Dayton a woman who now has grandchildren; but who, when I first came
West, was a gay rattling girl. She was one of the first converts of brother George's seemingly
obscure ministry in the little new town of Chillicothe. Now she has one son who is a judge
of the supreme court, and another in business. Both she and they are not only Christians, but
Christians of the primitive sort, whose religion is their all; who triumph and glory in tribulation,
knowing that it worketh patience. She told me, with a bright sweet calm, of her husband killed
in battle the first year of the war, of her only daughter and two grandchildren dying in the
faith, and of her own happy waiting on God's will, with bright hopes of a joyful reunion. Her
sons are leading members of the Presbyterian Church, and most active in stirring up others
to make their profession a reality, not an empty name. When I thought that all this came from
the conversion of one giddy girl, when George seemed to be doing so little, I said, "Who can
measure the work of a faithful minister?" It is such living witnesses that maintain Christianity
on earth.

Good-by, We shall soon be home now, and preparing for Florida. Always your own loving mother,

H. B. S.

Mrs. Stowe never undertook another reading tour, nor, after this one, did she ever read again
for money, though she frequently contributed her talent in this direction to the cause of charity.

The most noteworthy event of her later years was the celebration of the seventieth anniversary
of her birthday. That it might be fittingly observed, her publishers, Messrs. Houghton, Mifflin
& Co. of Boston, arranged a reception for her in form of a garden party, to which they invited
the literati of America. It was held on June 14, 1882, at "The Old Elms," the home of Ex-Governor
Claflin of Massachusetts, in Newtonville, one of Boston's most beautiful suburbs. Here the
assembly gathered to do honor to Mrs. Stowe, that lovely June afternoon, comprised two hundred
of the most distinguished and best known among the literary men and women of the day.

From three until five o'clock was spent socially. As the guests arrived they were presented
to Mrs. Stowe by Mr. H. 0. Houghton, and then they gathered in groups in the parlors, on the
verandas, on the lawn, and in the refreshment room. At five o'clock they assembled in a large
tent on the lawn, when Mr. Houghton, as host, addressed to his guest and her friends a few
words of congratulation and welcome. He closed his remarks by saying:--

  "And now, honored madam, as
  "'When to them who sail
  Beyond the Cape of Hope, and now are past
  Mozambic, off at sea northeast winds blow
  Sabean odors from the spicy shore
  Of Arabie the blest,'

so the benedictions of the lowly and the blessings of all conditions of men are brought to
you to-day on the wings of the wind, from every quarter of the globe; but there will be no
fresher laurels to crown this day of your rejoicing than are brought by those now before you,
who have been your co-workers in the strife; who have wrestled and suffered, fought and conquered,
with you; who rank you with the Miriams, the Deborahs, and the Judiths of old; and who now
shout back the refrain, when you utter the inspired song:--

 "'Sing ye to the Lord, for he hath triumphed gloriously.'
  *     *     *     *     *
  The Almighty Lord hath disappointed them by the hand of a woman.'"

In reply to this Mrs. Stowe's brother, Henry Ward Beecher, said: "Of course you all sympathize
with me to-day, but, standing in this place, I do not see your faces more clearly than I see
those of my father and my mother. Her I only knew as a mere babe-child. He was my teacher and
my companion. A more guileless soul than he, a more honest one, more free from envy, from jealousy,
and from selfishness, I never knew. Though he thought he was great by his theology, everybody
else knew he was great by his religion. My mother is to me what the Virgin Mary is to a devout
Catholic. She was a woman of great nature, profound as a philosophical thinker, great in argument,
with a kind of intellectual imagination, diffident, not talkative,--in which respect I take
after her,--the woman who gave birth to Mrs. Stowe, whose graces and excellences she probably
more than any of her children--we number but thirteen--has possessed. I suppose that in bodily
resemblance, perhaps, she is not like my mother, but in mind I presume she is most like her.
I thank you for my father's sake and for my mother's sake for the courtesy, the friendliness,
and the kindness which you give to Mrs. Stowe."

The following poem from John Greenleaf Whittier was then read:--

  "Thrice welcome from the Land of Flowers
  And golden-fruited orange bowers
  To this sweet, green-turfed June of ours!
  To her who, in our evil time,
  Dragged into light the nation's crime
  With strength beyond the strength of men,
  And, mightier than their sword, her pen;
  To her who world-wide entrance gave
  To the log cabin of the slave,
  Made all his wrongs and sorrows known,
  And all earth's languages his own,--
  North, South, and East and West, made all
  The common air electrical,
  Until the o'ercharged bolts of heaven
  Blazed down, and every chain was riven!

  "Welcome from each and all to her
  Whose Wooing of the Minister
  Revealed the warm heart of the man
  Beneath the creed-bound Puritan,
  And taught the kinship of the love
  Of man below and God above;

  To her whose vigorous pencil-strokes
  Sketched into life her Oldtown Folks,
  Whose fireside stories, grave or gay,
  In quaint Sam Lawson's vagrant way,
  With Old New England's flavor rife,
  Waifs from her rude idyllic life,
  Are racy as the legends old
  By Chaucer or Boccaccio told;
  To her who keeps, through change of place
  And time, her native strength and grace,
  Alike where warm Sorrento smiles,
  Or where, by birchen-shaded isles
  Whose summer winds have shivered o'er
  The icy drift of Labrador,
  She lifts to light the priceless Pearl
  Of Harpswell's angel-beckoned girl.
  To her at threescore years and ten
  Be tributes of the tongue and pen,
  Be honor, praise, and heart thanks given,
  The loves of earth, the hopes of heaven!

  "Ah, dearer than the praise that stirs
  The air to-day, our love is hers!
  She needs no guaranty of fame
  Whose own is linked with Freedom's name.
  Long ages after ours shall keep
  Her memory living while we sleep;
  The waves that wash our gray coast lines,
  The winds that rock the Southern pines
  Shall sing of her; the unending years
  Shall tell her tale in unborn ears.
  And when, with sins and follies past,
  Are numbered color-hate and caste,
  White, black, and red shall own as one.
  The noblest work by woman done."

It was followed by a few words from Dr. Oliver Wendell Holmes, who also read the subjoined
as his contribution to the chorus of congratulation:--

  "If every tongue that speaks her praise
  For whom I shape my tinkling phrase
    Were summoned to the table,
  The vocal chorus that would meet
  Of mingling accents harsh or sweet,
  From every land and tribe, would beat
    The polyglots of Babel."

  "Briton and Frenchman, Swede and Dane,
  Turk, Spaniard, Tartar of Ukraine,
    Hidalgo, Cossack, Cadi,
  High Dutchman and Low Dutchman, too,
  The Russian serf, the Polish Jew,
  Arab, Armenian, and Mantchoo
    Would shout, 'We know the lady.'"

  "Know her! Who knows not Uncle Tom
  And her he learned his gospel from,
    Has never heard of Moses;
  Full well the brave black hand we know
  That gave to freedom's grasp the hoe
  That killed the weed that used to grow
    Among the Southern roses."

  "When Archimedes, long ago,
  Spoke out so grandly, 'Dos pou sto,--
    Give me a place to stand on,
  I'll move your planet for you, now,'--
  He little dreamed or fancied how
  The sto at last should find its pou
    For woman's faith to land on."

  "Her lever was the wand of art,
  Her fulcrum was the human heart,
    Whence all unfailing aid is;
  She moved the earth! Its thunders pealed.
  Its mountains shook, its temples reeled,
  The blood-red fountains were unsealed,
    And Moloch sunk to Hades."

  "All through the conflict, up and down
  Marched Uncle Tom and Old John Brown,
    One ghost, one form ideal;
  And which was false and which was true,
  And which was mightier of the two,
  The wisest sibyl never knew,
    For both alike were real."

  "Sister, the holy maid does well
  Who counts her beads in convent cell,
    Where pale devotion lingers;
  But she who serves the sufferer's needs,
  Whose prayers are spelt in loving deeds,
  May trust the Lord will count her beads
    As well as human fingers.

  "When Truth herself was Slavery's slave
  Thy hand the prisoned suppliant gave
    The rainbow wings of fiction.
  And Truth who soared descends to-day
  Bearing an angel's wreath away,
  Its lilies at thy feet to lay
    With heaven's own benediction."

Poems written for the occasion by Mrs. A. D. T. Whitney, Miss Elizabeth Stuart Phelps, Mr.
J. T. Trowbridge, Mrs. Allen (Mrs. Stowe's daughter), Mrs. Annie Fields, and Miss Charlotte
F. Bates, were also read, and speeches were made by Judge Albion W. Tourgee and others prominent
in the literary world.

Letters from many noted people, who were prevented from being present by distance or by other
engagements, had been received. Only four of them were read, but they were all placed in Mrs.
Stowe's hands. The exercises were closed by a few words from Mrs. Stowe herself. As she came
to the front of the platform the whole company rose, and remained standing until she had finished.
In her quiet, modest, way, and yet so clearly as to be plainly heard by all, she said:--

"I wish to say that I thank all my friends from my heart,--that is all. And one thing more,--and
that is, if any of you have doubt, or sorrow, or pain, if you doubt about this world, just
remember what God has done; just remember that this great sorrow of slavery has gone, gone
by forever. I see it every day at the South. I walk about there and see the lowly cabins. I
see these people growing richer and richer. I see men very happy in their lowly lot; but, to
be sure, you must have patience with them. They are not perfect, but have their faults, and
they are serious faults in the view of white people. But they are very happy, that is evident,
and they do know how to enjoy themselves,--a great deal more than you do. An old negro friend
in our neighborhood has got a new, nice two-story house, and an orange grove, and a sugar-mill.
He has got a lot of money, besides. Mr. Stowe met him one day, and he said, 'I have got twenty
head of cattle, four head of "hoss," forty head of hen, and I have got ten children, all mine,
every one mine.' Well, now, that is a thing that a black man could not say once, and this man
was sixty years old before he could say it. With all the faults of the colored people, take
a man and put him down with nothing but his hands, and how many could say as much as that?
I think they have done well.

"A little while ago they had at his house an evening festival for their church, and raised
fifty dollars. We white folks took our carriages, and when we reached the house we found it
fixed nicely. Every one of his daughters knew how to cook. They had a good place for the festival.
Their suppers were spread on little white tables with nice clean cloths on them. People paid
fifty cents for supper. They got between fifty and sixty dollars, and had one of the best frolics
you could imagine. They had also for supper ice-cream, which they made themselves.

"That is the sort of thing I see going on around me. Let us never doubt. Everything that ought
to happen is going to happen."

Mrs. Stowe's public life ends with the garden party, and little more remains to be told. She
had already, in 1880, begun the task of selection from the great accumulation of letters and
papers relating to her life, and writes thus to her son in Saco, Maine, regarding the work:--

September 30, 1880.

MY DEAR CHARLEY,--My mind has been with you a great deal lately. I have been looking over and
arranging my papers with a view to sifting out those that are not worth keeping, and so filing
and arranging those that are to be kept, that my heirs and assigns may with the less trouble
know where and what they are. I cannot describe (to you) the peculiar feelings which this review
occasions. Reading old letters-- when so many of the writers are gone from earth, seems to
me like going into the world of spirits--letters full of the warm, eager, anxious, busy life,
that is forever past. My own letters, too, full of by-gone scenes in my early life and the
childish days of my children. It is affecting to me to recall things that strongly moved me
years ago, that filled my thoughts and made me anxious when the occasion and emotion have wholly
vanished from my mind. But I thank God there is one thing running through all of them from
the time I was thirteen years old, and that is the intense unwavering sense of Christ's educating,
guiding presence and care. It is all that remains now. The romance of my youth is faded, it
looks to me now, from my years, so very young--those days when my mind only lived in emotion,
and when my letters never were dated, because they were only histories of the internal, but
now that I am no more and never can be young in this world, now that the friends of those days
are almost all in eternity, what remains?

 Through life and through death, through sorrowing, through sinning,
 Christ shall suffice me as he hath sufficed.
 Christ is the end and Christ the beginning,
 The beginning and end of all is Christ.

I was passionate in my attachments in those far back years, and as I have looked over files
of old letters, they are all gone (except one, C. Van Rensselaer), Georgiana May, Delia Bacon,
Clarissa Treat, Elisabeth Lyman, Sarah Colt, Elisabeth Phenix, Frances Strong, Elisabeth Foster.
I have letters from them all, but they have been long in spirit land and know more about how
it is there than I do. It gives me a sort of dizzy feeling of the shortness of life and nearness
of eternity when I see how many that I have traveled with are gone within the veil. Then there
are all my own letters, written in the first two years of marriage, when Mr. Stowe was in Europe
and I was looking forward to motherhood and preparing for it--my letters when my whole life
was within the four walls of my nursery, my thoughts absorbed by the developing character of
children who have now lived their earthly life and gone to the eternal one,--my two little
boys, each in their way good and lovely, whom Christ has taken in youth, and my little one,
my first Charley, whom He took away before he knew sin or sorrow,--then my brother George and
sister Catherine, the one a companion of my youth, the other the mother who assumed the care
of me after I left home in my twelfth year--and they are gone. Then my blessed father, for
many years so true an image of the Heavenly Father,--in all my afflictions he was afflicted,
in all my perplexities he was a sure and safe counselor, and he too is gone upward to join
the angelic mother whom I scarcely knew in this world, who has been to me only a spiritual
presence through life.

In 1882 Mrs. Stowe writes to her son certain impressions derived from reading the "Life and
Letters of John Quincy Adams," which are given as containing a retrospect of the stormy period
of her own life- experience.

"Your father enjoys his proximity to the Boston library. He is now reading the twelve or fourteen
volumes of the life and diary of John Q. Adams. It is a history of our country through all
the period of slavery usurpation that led to the war. The industry of the man in writing is
wonderful. Every day's doings in the house are faithfully daguerreotyped,--all the mean tricks,
contrivances of the slave-power, and the pusillanimity of the Northern members from day to
day recorded. Calhoun was then secretary of state. Under his connivance even the United States
census was falsified, to prove that freedom was bad for negroes. Records of deaf, dumb, and
blind, and insane colored people were distributed in Northern States, and in places where John
Q. Adams had means of proving there were no negroes. When he found that these falsified figures
had been used with the English embassador as reasons for admitting Texas as a slave State,
the old man called on Calhoun, and showed him the industriously collected proofs of the falsity
of this census. He says: 'He writhed like a trodden rattlesnake, but said the census was full
of mistakes; but one part balanced another,--it was not worth while to correct them.' His whole
life was an incessant warfare with the rapidly advancing spirit of slavery, that was coiling
like a serpent around everything.

"At a time when the Southerners were like so many excited tigers and rattlesnakes,--when they
bullied, and scoffed, and sneered, and threatened, this old man rose every day in his place,
and, knowing every parliamentary rule and tactic of debate, found means to make himself heard.
Then he presented a petition from negroes, which raised a storm of fury. The old man claimed
that the right of petition was the right of every human being. They moved to expel him. By
the rules of the house a man, before he can be expelled, may have the floor to make his defense.
This was just what he wanted. He held the floor for fourteen days, and used his wonderful powers
of memory and arrangement to give a systematic, scathing history of the usurpations of slavery;
he would have spoken fourteen days more, but his enemies, finding the thing getting hotter
and hotter, withdrew their motion, and the right of petition was gained.

"What is remarkable in this journal is the minute record of going to church every Sunday, and
an analysis of the text and sermon. There is something about these so simple, so humble, so
earnest. Often differing from the speaker--but with gravity and humility--he seems always to
be so self-distrustful; to have such a sense of sinfulness and weakness, but such trust in
God's fatherly mercy, as is most beautiful to see. Just the record of his Sunday sermons, and
his remarks upon them, would be most instructive to a, preacher. He was a regular communicant,
and, beside, attended church on Christmas and Easter,--I cannot but love the old man. He died
without seeing even the dawn of liberty which God has brought; but oh! I am sure he sees it
from above. He died in the Capitol, in the midst of his labors, and the last words he said
were, 'This is the last of earth; I am content.' And now, I trust, he is with God.

"All, all are gone. All that raged; all that threatened; all the cowards that yielded; truckled,
sold their country for a mess of pottage; all the men that stood and bore infamy and scorn
for the truth; all are silent in dust; the fight is over, but eternity will never efface from
their souls whether they did well or ill-- whether they fought bravely or failed like cowards.
In a sense, our lives are irreparable. If we shrink, if we fail, if we choose the fleeting
instead of the eternal, God may forgive us; but there must be an eternal regret! This man lived
for humanity when hardest bestead; for truth when truth was unpopular; for Christ when Christ
stood chained and scourged in the person of the slave."

In the fall of 1887 she writes to her brother Rev. Dr. Edward Beecher of Brooklyn, N. Y.:--

49 FOREST STREET, HARTFORD, CONN., October 11, 1887.

Dear Brother,--I was delighted to receive your kind letter. You were my earliest religious
teacher; your letters to me while a school- girl in Hartford gave me a high Christian aim and
standard which I hope I have never lost. Not only did they do me good, but also my intimate
friends, Georgiana May and Catherine Cogswell, to whom I read them. The simplicity, warmth,
and childlike earnestness of those school days I love to recall. I am the only one living of
that circle of early friends. Not one of my early schoolmates is living,--and now Henry, younger
by a year or two than I, has gone--my husband also. [Footnote: Professor Stowe died August,
1886.] I often think, Why am I spared? Is there yet anything for me to do? I am thinking with
my son Charles's help of writing a review of my life, under the title, "Pebbles from the Shores
of a Past Life."

Charlie told me that he has got all written up to my twelfth or thirteenth year, when I came
to be under sister Catherine's care in Hartford. I am writing daily my remembrances from that
time. You were then, I think, teacher of the Grammar School in Hartford. . . .

So, my dear brother, let us keep good heart; no evil can befall us. Sin alone is evil, and
from that Christ will keep us. Our journey is so short!

I feel about all things now as I do about the things that happen in a hotel, after my trunk
is packed to go home. I may be vexed and annoyed . . . but what of it! I am going home soon.

Your affectionate sister,

Hattie.

To a friend she writes a little later:--

"I have thought much lately of the possibility of my leaving you all and going home. I am come
to that stage of my pilgrimage that is within sight of the River of Death, and I feel that
now I must have all in readiness day and night for the messenger of the King. I have sometimes
had in my sleep strange perceptions of a vivid spiritual life near to and with Christ, and
multitudes of holy ones, and the joy of it is like no other joy,--it cannot be told in the
language of the world. What I have then I know with absolute certainty, yet it is so unlike
and above anything we conceive of in this world that it is difficult to put it into words.
The inconceivable loveliness of Christ! It seems that about Him there is a sphere where the
enthusiasm of love is the calm habit of the soul, that without words, without the necessity
of demonstrations of affection, heart beats to heart, soul answers soul, we respond to the
Infinite Love, and we feel his answer in us, and there is no need of words. All seemed to be
busy coming and going on ministries of good, and passing each gave a thrill of joy to each
as Jesus, the directing soul, the centre of all, 'over all, in all, and through all," was working
his beautiful and merciful will to redeem and save. I was saying as I awoke:--

 "''T is joy enough, my all in all,
 At thy dear feet to lie.
 Thou wilt not let me lower fall,
 And none can higher fly.'

"This was but a glimpse; but it has left a strange sweetness in my mind."

INDEX

ABBOTT, Mr. and Mrs. Jacob

Aberdeen, reception in,

Abolition, English meetings in favor of,

Abolition sentiment, growth of,

Abolitionism made fashionable

Adams, John Quincy, crusade of, against slavery, holds floor of Congress fourteen days, his
religious life and trust, died without seeing dawn of liberty, life and letters of,

"Agnes of Sorrento," first draft of, date of, Whittier's praise of,

"Alabama Planter," savage attack of, on H. B. S.

Albert, Prince, Mrs. Stowe's letter to, his reply, meeting with, death,

America, liberty in, Ruskin on,

American novelist, Lowell on the

Andover, Mass., beauty of, Stowe family settled in,

Anti-slavery cause: result of English demonstrations, letters to England, feeling dreaded in
South, movement in Cincinnati, in Boston, Beecher family all anti-slavery men,

"Arabian Nights," H. B. S.'s delight in,

Argyll, Duke and Duchess of, warmth of, H. B. S. invited to visit, death of father of Duchess,

Argyll, Duchess of, letter from H. B. S. to, on England's attitude during our Civil War, on
post bellum events,

"Atlantic Monthly," contains "Minister's Wooing," Mrs. Stowe's address to women of England,
"The True Story of Lady Byron's Life,"

BAILEY, Gamaliel, Dr., editor of "National Era,"

Bangor, readings in

Bates, Charlotte Fiske, reads a poem at Mrs. Stowe's seventieth birthday,

Baxter's "Saints' Rest," has a powerful effect on H. B. S.

Beecher, Catherine, eldest sister of H. B. S., her education of H. B. S., account of her own
birth, strong influence over Harriet, girlhood of, teacher at New London, engagement, drowning
of her lover, soul struggles after Prof. Fisher's death, teaches in his family, publishes article
on Free Agency, opens school at Hartford, solution of doubts while teaching, her conception
of Divine Nature, school at Hartford described by H. B. S., doubts about Harriet's conversion,
hopes for "Hartford Female Seminary,", letter to Edward about Harriet's doubts, note on Harriet's
letter, new school at Cincinnati, visits Cincinnati with father, impressions of city, homesickness,
at water cure, a mother to sister Harriet, letters to H. B. S. to, on her religious depression,
on religious doubts.

Beecher, Charles, brother of H. B. S., in college, goes to Florida, letters from H. B. S.,
on mother's death.

Beecher, Edward, Dr., brother of H. B. S., influence over her, indignation against Fugitive
Slave Act, efforts to arouse churches, letters from H. B. S. to, on early religious struggles,
on her feelings, on views of God, on death of friends and relatives and the writing of her
life by her son Charles.

Beecher, Esther, aunt of H. B. S.

Beecher family, famous reunion of, circular letter to.

Beecher, Frederick, H. B. S.'s half-brother, death of.

Beecher, George, brother of H. B. S., visit to, enters Lane as student music and tracts, account
of journey to Cincinnati, sudden death, H. B. S. meets at Dayton one of his first converts,
his letters cherished.

Beecher, George, nephew of H. B. S., visit to,

Beecher, Mrs. George, letter from H. B. S. to, describing new home.

Beecher, Harriet E. first; death of, second; (H. B. S.) birth of.

Beecher, Mrs. Harriet Porter, H. B. S.'s stepmother; personal appearance and character of;
pleasant impressions of new home and children; at Cincinnati.

Beecher, Henry Ward, brother of H. B. S., birth of; anecdote of, after mother's death; first
school; conception of Divine Nature, in college; H. B. S. attends graduation; editor of Cincinnati
"Journal,"; sympathy with anti-slavery movement; at Brooklyn; saves Edmonson's daughters; H.
B. S. visits; views on Reconstruction; George Eliot on Beecher trial; his character as told
by H. B. S.; love for Prof. Stowe; his youth and life in West; Brooklyn and his anti-slavery
fight; Edmonsons and Plymouth Church; his loyalty and energy; his religion; popularity and
personal magnetism; terrible struggle in the Beecher trial; bribery of jury, but final triumph;
ecclesiastical trial of; committee of five appointed to bring facts; his ideal purity and innocence;
power at death-beds and funerals; beloved by poor and oppressed; meets accusations by silence,
prayer, and work; his thanks and speech at Stowe Garden Party; tribute to father, mother, and
sister Harriet; death.

Beecher, Isabella, H. B. S.'s half-sister, birth of; goes to Cincinnati.

Beecher, James, H. B. S.'s half-brother; goes to Cincinnati, 53; begins Sunday-school.

Beecher, Rev. Dr. Lyman, H. B. Stowe's father; "Autobiography and Correspondence of,"; verdict
on his wife's remarkable piety; pride in his daughter's essay; admiration of Walter Scott;
sermon which converts H. B. S.; accepts call to Hanover Street Church, Boston; president of
Lane Theological Seminary; first journey to Cincinnati; removal and westward journey, et seq.;
removes family to Cincinnati,; Beecher reunion; powerful sermons on slave question; his sturdy
character, H. W. Beecher's eulogy upon; death and reunion with H. B. S's mother.

Beecher, Mary, sister of H. B. S.; married; letter to; accompanies sister to Europe; letters
from H. B. S. to, on love for New England; on visit to Windsor.

Beecher, Roxanna Foote, mother of H. B. S.; her death; strong, sympathetic nature; reverence
for the Sabbath; sickness, death, and funeral; influence in family strong even after death;
character described by H. W. Beecher; H. B. S.'s resemblance to.

Beecher, William, brother of H. B. S.; licensed to preach.

Bell, Henry, English inventor of steamboat.

Belloc, Mme., translates "Uncle Tom."

Belloc, M., to paint portrait of H. B. S..

Bentley, London publisher, offers pay for "Uncle Tom's Cabin."

"Betty's Bright Idea," date of.

Bible; Uncle Tom's; use and influence of.

"Bible Heroines," date of.

Bibliography of H. B. S.

Biography, H. B. S.'s remarks on writing and understanding.

Birney, J. G., office wrecked, et seq.; H. B. S.'s sympathy with.

Birthday, seventieth, celebration of by Houghton, Mifflin & Co.

Blackwood's attack on Lady Byron.

Blantyre, Lord.

Bogne, David.

Boston opens doors to slave-hunters.

Boston Library, Prof. Stowe enjoys proximity to.

Bowdoin College calls Prof. Stowe.

Bowen, H. C.

Bruce, John, of Litchfield Academy, H. B. S.'s tribute to; lectures on Butler's "Analogy."

Brigham, Miss, character of.

Bright, John, letter to H. B. S. on her "Appeal to English Women."

Brooklyn, Mrs. Stowe's visit to brother Henry in; visit in 1852, when she helps the Edmonson
slave family; Beecher, H. W. called to; Beecher trial in.

Brown and the phantoms.

Brown, John, bravery of.

Browning, Mrs., on life and love.

Browning, E. B., letter to H. B. S.; death of.

Browning, Robert and E. B, friendship with.

Brunswick, Mrs. Stowe's love of; revisited.

Buck, Eliza, history of as slave.

Bull, J. D. and family, make home for H. B. S. while at school in Hartford.

Bunsen, Chevalier.

Bunyan's "Pilgrim's Progress," Prof. Stowe's love of.

Burritt, Elihu, writes introduction to "Uncle Tom's Cabin;" calls on Mrs. Stowe.

Butler's "Analogy," study of, by H. B. S.

"Byron Controversy," 445; history of; George Eliot on; Dr. Holmes on.

Byron, Lady; letters from; makes donation to Kansas sufferers; on power of words; death of;
her character assailed; her first meeting with H. B. S.; dignity and calmness; memoranda and
letters about Lord Byron shown to Mrs. Stowe; solemn interview with H. B. S.; letters to H.
B. S. from,; on "The Minister's Wooing;" farewell to; her confidences; Mrs. Stowe's counsels to.

Byron, Lord, Mrs. Stowe on; she suspects his insanity; cheap edition of his works proposed;
Recollections of, by Countess Guiecioli; his position as viewed by Dr. Holmes; evidence of
his poems for and against him.

"CABIN, The," literary centre.

Cairnes, Prof., on the "Fugitive Slave Law."

Calhoun falsifies census.

Calvinism, J. R. Lowell's sympathy with.

Cambridgeport, H. B. S. reads in.

Carlisle, Lord, praises "Uncle Tom's Cabin;" Mrs. Stowe's reply; writes introduction to "Uncle
Tom," 192; H. B. S. dines with; farewell to; letter from H. B. S. to on moral effect of slavery;
letter to H. B. S. from.

Gary, Alice and Phoebe.

Casaubon and Dorothea, criticism by H. B. S. on.

Catechisms, Church and Assembly, H. B. S.'s early study of.

Chapman, Mrs. Margaret Weston.

Charpentier of Paris, publishes "Uncle Tom's Cabin;" eulogy of that work.

Chase, Salmon P.

Chelsea, H. B. S. reads in.

Chicago, readings in.

Children of H. B. S., picture of three eldest; appeal to, by H. B. S.; described by H. B. S.;
letters to, from H. B. S. on European voyage and impressions; on life in London; on meeting
at Stafford House; on Vesuvius.

"Chimney Corner, The," date of.

Cholera epidemic in Cincinnati.

Christ, life of, little understood; communion with Him possible; love and faith in; study of
his life; his presence all that remains now; his promises comfort the soul for separations
by death.

"Christian Union," contains observations by H. B. S. on spiritualism and Mr. Owen's books.

Christianity and spiritualism.

Church, the, responsible for slavery.

Cincinnati, Lyman Beecher accepts call to; Catherine Beecher's impressions of; Walnut Hills
and Seminary; famine in; cholera; sympathetic audience in.

Civil War, Mrs. Stowe on causes of.

Clarke & Co. on English success of "Uncle Tom's Cabin;" offer author remuneration.

Clay, Henry, and his compromise.

Cogswell, Catherine Ledyard, schoolfriend of H. B. S.

College of Teachers.

Collins professorship.

Colored people, advance of.

Confederacy, A. H. Stephens on object of.

Courage and cheerfulness of H. B. S.

Cranch, E. P.

Cruikshank illustrates "Uncle Tom's Cabin."

"DANIEL DERONDA," appears in "Harper's;" his nature like H. W. Beecher's; admiration of Prof.
Stowe for.

Da Vinci's Last Supper, H. B. S.'s impressions of.

Death of youngest-born of H. B. S.; anguish at.

Death, H. B. S. within sight of the River of,

"Debatable Land between this World and the Next,"

Declaration of Independence, H. B. S.'s feeling about, death-knell to slavery,

Degan, Miss,

Democracy and American novelists, Lowell on,

"De Profundis," motive of Mrs. Browning's,

De Staël, Mme., and Corinne,

Dickens, first sight of, J. E. Lowell on,

"Dog's Mission, A," date of,

Domestic service, H. B. S.'s trouble with,

Doubters and disbelievers may find comfort in spiritualism,

Doubts, religious, after death of eldest son,

Douglass, Frederick, letters from H. B. S. to, on slavery,

Drake, Dr., family physician, one of founders of "College of Teachers,"

"Dred," Sumner's letter on, Georgiana May on, English edition of, presented to Queen Victoria,
her interest in, demand for, in Glasgow, Duchess of Sutherland's copy, Low's sales of, "London
Times," on, English reviews on, severe, "Revue des Deux Mondes" on, Miss Martineau on, Prescott
on, Lowell on, now "Nina Gordon," publication of,

Dudevant, Madame. See Sand, George.

Dufferin, Lord and Lady, their love of American literature,

Dundee, meeting at,

Dunrobin Castle, visit to,

E---, letter from H. B. S. to, on breakfast at the Trevelyans',

"Earthly Care a Heavenly Discipline,"

East Hampton, L. I., birthplace of Catherine Beecher,

Eastman, Mrs., writes a Southern reply to "Uncle Tom's Cabin,"

Edgeworth, Maria,

Edinburgh, H. B. S. in, return to,

Edmonson slave family; efforts to save, Mrs. Stowe educates and supports daughters, raises
money to free mother and two slave children,

Edmonson, death of Mary,

Education, H. B. S.'s interest in,

Edwards, Jonathan, the power of, his treatise on "The Will," refuted by Catherine Beecher,

Eliot, George, a good Christian, on psychical problems, on "Oldtown Folks," her despondency
in "writing life" and longing for sympathy, on power of fine books, on religion, desires to
keep an open mind on all subjects, on impostures of spiritualism, lack of "jollitude" in "Middlemarch,"
invited to visit America, sympathy with H. B. S. in Beecher trial, proud of Stowes' interest
in her "spiritual children," on death of Mr. Lewes and gratitude for sympathy of H. B. S.,
a "woman worth loving," H. B. S.'s love for greater than her admiration, letters from H. B.
S. to, on spiritualism, describes Florida nature and home, reply to letter of sympathy giving
facts in the Beecher ease, from Professor Stowe on spiritualism, letter to H. B. S. from, with
sympathy on abuse called out by the Byron affair, on effect of letter of H. B. S. to Mrs. Follen
upon her mind, on joy of sympathy, reply to letter on spiritualism, sympathy with her in the
Beecher trial,

Elmes. Mr.,

"Elms, The Old," H. B. S.'s seventieth birthday celebrated at,

"Elsie Vernier," Mrs. Stowe's praise of,

Emancipation, Proclamation of,

Emmons, Doctor, the preaching of,

England and America compared,

England, attitude of, in civil war, grief at, help of to America on slave question,

English women's address on slavery, H. B. S.'s reply in the "Atlantic Monthly,"

Europe, first visit to, second visit to, third visit to,

Faith in Christ,

Famine in Cincinnati,

Fiction, power of,

Fields, Mrs. Annie, in Boston, her tribute to Mrs. Stowe's courage and cheerfulness, George
Eliot's mention of, her poem read at seventieth birthday,

Fields. Jas. T., Mr. and Mrs., visit of H. B. S. to,

Fisher, Prof. Alexander Metcalf, engagement to Catherine Beecher, sails for Europe, his death
by drowning in shipwreck of Albion, Catherine Beecher's soul struggles, over his future fate,
influence of these struggles depicted in "The Minister's Wooing,"

Florence, Mrs. Stowe's winter in,

Florida, winter home in Mandarin, like Sorrento, wonderful growth of nature, how H. B. S.'s
house was built, her happy life in, longings for, her enjoyment of happy life of the freedmen in,

Flowers, love of, painting,

Follen, Mrs., letter from H. B. S. to, on her biography,

Foote, Harriet, aunt of H. B. S., energetic English character, teaches niece catechism,

Foote, Mrs. Roxanna, grandmother of H. B. S., first visit to, visit to in 1827,

"Footfalls on the Boundary of Another World,"

"Footsteps of the Master," published,

"Fraser's Magazine" on "Uncle Tom's Cabin," Helps's review of "Uncle Tom's Cabin,"

"Free Agency," Catherine Beecher's refutation of Edwards on "The Will,"

French critics, high standing of,

Friends, love for, death of, death of old, whose letters are cherished, death of, takes away
a part of ourselves,

Friendship, opinion of,

Fugitive Slave Act, suffering caused by, Prof. Cairnes on, practically repealed,

Future life, glimpses of, leave strange sweetness,

Future punishment, ideas of,

Garrison, W. L., to Mrs. Stowe on "Uncle Tom's Cabin," in hour of victory, his "Liberator,"
sent with H. W. Beecher to raise flag on Sumter, letters to H. B. S. from, on "Uncle Tom's
Cabin," on slavery, on arousing the church,

Gaskell, Mrs., at home, Geography, school, written by Mrs. Stowe, note,

Germany's tribute to "Uncle Tom's Cabin,"

Gladstone, W. E.,

Glasgow, H. B. S. visits, 210; Anti-slavery Society of.

Glasgow Anti-slavery Society, letter from H. B. S. to.

God, H. B. S.'s views of; trust in; doubts and final trust in; his help in time of need.

Goethe and Mr. Lewes; Prof. Stowe's admiration of.

Goldschmidt, Madame. See Lind, Jenny.

Görres on spiritualism and mysticism.

Grandmother, letter from H. B. S. to, on breaking up of Litchfield home; on school life in
Hartford.

Granville, Lord.

"Gray's Elegy," visit to scene of.

Guiccioli, Countess, "Recollections of Lord Byron."

HALL, Judge James.

Hallam, Arthur Henry.

Hamilton and Manumission Society.

Harper & Brothers reprint Guieeioli's "Recollections of Byron."

Hartford, H. B. S. goes to school at; the Stowes make their home at.

Harvey, a phantom.

Hawthorne, Nathaniel; letter on; on slavery; letter to H. B. S. on, from English attitude towards
America.

Health, care of.

Heaven, belief in.

Helps, Arthur, on "Uncle Tom's Cabin;" meets H. B. S., letter from H. B. S. to, on "Uncle Tom's
Cabin."

Henry, Patrick, on slavery.

Hentz, Mrs. Caroline Lee.

Higginson, T. W., letter to H. B. S. from, on "Uncle Tom's Cabin."

"History, The, of the Byron Controversy."

Holmes, O. W., correspondence with, et seq.; attacks upon; H. B. S. asks advice from, about
manner of telling facts in relation to Byron Controversy; sends copy of "Lady Byron Vindicated"
to; on facts of case; on sympathy displayed in his writings; poem on H. B. S.'s seventieth
birthday; tribute to Uncle Tom; letters from H. B. S. to; on "Poganue People;" asking advice
about Byron Controversy and article for "Atlantic Monthly;" letters to H. B. S. from; on facts
in the Byron Controversy.

Houghton, Mifflin & Co., celebrate H. B. S.'s seventieth birthday.

Houghton, H. 0., presents guests to H. B. S., on celebration of seventieth birthday, 500; address
of welcome by.

"House and Home Papers" published.

Howitt, Mary, calls on H. B. S.

Human life, sacredness of.

Human nature in books and men.

Hume and mediums.

Humor of Mrs. Stowe's books, George Eliot on.

Husband and wife, sympathy between.

IDEALISM versus Realism, Lowell on.

"Independent," New York, work for; Mrs. Browning reads Mrs. Stowe in.

Inverary Castle, H. B. S.'s. visit to.

Ireland's gift to Mrs. Stowe.

JEFFERSON, Thomas, on slavery.

Jewett, John P., of Boston, publisher of "Uncle Tom's Cabin."

KANSAS Nebraska Bill; urgency of question.

"Key to Uncle Tom's Cabin" projected; written; contains facts; read by Pollock; by Argyll;
sickness caused by; sale; facts woven into "Dred;" date of in chronological list.

Kingsley, Charles, upon effect of "Uncle Tom's Cabin," 196; visit to; letters to H. B. S. from,
on "Uncle Tom's Cabin."

Kossuth, on freedom; Mrs. Stowe calls upon.

LABOUCHERE, Lady Mary, visit to.

"Lady Byron Vindicated;" date.

Letters, circular, writing of, a custom in the Beecher family; H. B. S.'s love of; H. B. S.'s
peculiar emotions on re-reading old.

Lewes, G. H., George Eliot's letter after death of.

Lewes, Mrs. G. H. See Eliot, George.

"Library of Famous Fiction," date of.

"Liberator," The; and Bible; suspended after the close of civil war.

Lincoln and slavery; death of.

Lind, Jenny, liberality of; H. B. S. attends concert by; letter to H. B. S. from, on her delight
in "Uncle Tom's Cabin;" letters from H. B. S. to, with appeal for slaves.

Litchfield, birthplace of H. B. S.; end of her child-life in; home at broken up.

Literary labors, early; prize story; club essays; contributor to "Western Monthly Magazine;"
school geography; described in letter to a friend; price for; fatigue caused by; length of
time passed in, with list of books written.

Literary work versus domestic duties, et seq.; short stories--"New Year's Story" for "N. Y.
Evangelist;" "A Scholar's Adventures in the Country" for "Era."

Literature, opinion of.

"Little Pussy Willow," date of.

Liverpool, warm reception of H. B. S. at.

London poor and Southern slaves.

London, first visit to; second visit to.

Longfellow, H. W., congratulations of, on "Uncle Tom's Cabin;" letter on; Lord Granville's
likeness to; letters to H. B. S. from, on "Uncle Tom's Cabin."

Love, the impulse of life.

Lovejoy, J. P., murdered; aided by Beechers.

Low, Sampson, on success of "Uncle Tom's Cabin" abroad.

Low, Sampson & Co. publish "Dred;" their sales.

Lowell, J. R., Duchess of Sutherland's interesting; less known in England than he should be;
on "Uncle Tom;" on Dickens and Thackeray; on "The Minister's Wooing;" on idealism; letter to
H. B. S. from, on "The Minister's Wooing."

MACAULAY.

McClellan, Gen., his disobedience to the President's commands.

"Magnalia," Cotton Mather's, a mine of wealth to H. B. S; Prof. Stowe's interest in.

Maine law, curiosity about in England.

Mandarin, Mrs. Stowe at; like

Sorrento, how her house was built, her happy out-door life in, relieved from domestic care,
longings for home at, freed-men's happy life in South,

Mann, Horace, makes a plea for slaves,

Martineau, Harriet, letter to H. B. S. from,

May, Georgiana, school and life-long friend of H. B. S., Mrs. Sykes, her ill-health and fare-well
to H. B. S., letters from H. B. S. to, account of westward journey, on labor in establishing
school, on education, just before her marriage to Mr. Stowe, on her early married life and
housekeeping, on birth of her son, describing first railroad ride, on her children, her letter
to Mrs. Foote, grandmother of H. B. S., letters to H. B. S. from,

"Mayflower, The," revised and republished, date of,

Melancholy, a characteristic of Prof. Stowe in childhood,

"Men of Our Times," date of,

"Middlemarch," H. B. S. wishes to read, character of Casaubon in,

Milman, Dean,

Milton's hell,

"Minister's Wooing, The," soul struggles of Mrs. Marvyn, foundation of incident, idea of God
in, impulse for writing, appears in "Atlantic Monthly," Lowell, J. R. on, Whittier on, completed,
Ruskin on, undertone of pathos, visits England in relation to, date of, "reveals warm heart
of man" beneath the Puritan in Whittier's poem,

Missouri Compromise, repealed,

Mohl, Madame, and her salon,

Money-making, reading as easy a way as any of,

Moral aim in novel-writing, J. R. Lowell on,

"Mourning Veil, The,"

"Mystique La," on spiritualism,

NAPLES and Vesuvius,

"National Era," its history, work for,

Negroes, petition from, presented by J. Q. Adams,

New England, Mrs. Stowe's knowledge of, in "The Minister's Wooing," life pictured in "Oldtown
Folks,"

New London, fatigue of reading at,

Newport, tiresome journey to, on reading tour,

Niagara, impressions of,

Normal school for colored teachers,

"North American Review" on "Uncle Tom's Cabin,"

North versus South, England on,

Norton, C. E., Ruskin on the proper home of,

"OBSERVER, New York," denunciation of "Uncle Tom's Cabin,"

"Oldtown Fireside Stories," strange spiritual experiences of Prof. Stowe, Sam Lawson a real
character, relief after finishing, date of in chronological list, in Whittier's poem on seventieth
birthday "With Old New England's flavor rife,"

"Oldtown Folks," Prof. Stowe original of "Harry" in, George Eliot on its reception in England,
picture of N. E. life, date of, Whittier's praise of, "vigorous pencil-strokes" in poem on
seventieth birthday,

Orthodoxy.

"Our Charley," date of.

Owen, Robert Dale, his "Footfalls on the Boundary of Another World" and "The Debatable Land
between this World and the Next;" H. B. S. wishes George Eliot to meet.

PALMERSTON, Lord, meeting with.

"Palmetto Leaves" published; date.

Papacy, The.

Paris, first visit to; second visit.

Park, Professor Edwards A.

Parker, Theodore, on the Bible and Jesus.

Paton, Bailie, host of Mrs. Stowe.

Peabody, pleasant reading in; Queen Victoria's picture at.

"Pearl of Orr's Island, The;" first published; Whittier's favorite; date of.

"Pebbles from the Shores of a Past Life," a review of her life proposed to be written by H.
B. S. with aid of son Charles.

Phantoms seen by Professor Stowe.

Phelps, Elizabeth Stuart, writes poem on H. B. S.'s seventieth birthday.

"Philanthropist, The," anti-slavery paper.

Phillips, Wendell, attitude of after war.

"Pink and White Tyranny," date of.

Plymouth Church, saves Edmonson's daughters; slavery and; clears Henry Ward Beecher by acclamation;
calls council of Congregational ministers and laymen; council ratifies decision of Church;
committee of five appointed to bring facts which could be proved; missions among poor particularly
effective at time of trial.

"Poganuc People;" sent to Dr. Holmes; date of.

Pollock, Lord Chief Baron.

Poor, generosity of touches H. B. S.

Portland, H. B. S.'s friends there among the past; her readings in.

Portraits of Mrs. Stowe; Belloc to paint; untruth of.

Poverty in early married life.

Prescott, W. H., letter to H. B. S. from, on "Dred."

"Presse, La," on "Dred."

Providential aid in sickness.

"QUEER Little People."

READING and teaching.

Religion and humanity, George Eliot on.

"Religious poems," date of.

"Revue des Deux Mondes" on "Dred."

Riots in Cincinnati and anti-slavery agitation.

Roenne, Baron de, visits Professor Stowe.

Roman polities in 1861.

Rome, H. B. S.'s journey to; impressions of.

Ruskin, John, letters to H. B. S. from, on "The Minister's Wooing;" on his dislike of America,
but love for American friends.

Ruskin and Turner.

SAINT-BEUVE, H. B. S.'s liking for.

Sales, Francis de, H. W. Beecher compared with.

Salisbury, Mr., interest of in "Uncle Tom's Cabin."

Salons, French.

Sand, George, reviews "Uncle Tom's Cabin."

Scotland, H. B. S.'s first visit to.

Scott, Walter, Lyman Beecher's opinion of, when discussing novel- reading, 25; monument in
Edinburgh.

Sea, H. B. S.'s nervous horror of.

Sea-voyages, H. B. S. on.

Semi-Colon Club, H. B. S. becomes a member of.

Shaftesbury, Earl of, letter of, to Mrs. Stowe.

Shaftesbury, Lord, to H. B. S., letter from; letter from H. B. S. to; America and.

Skinner, Dr.

Slave, aiding a fugitive.

Slave-holding States on English address; intensity of conflict in.

Slavery, H. B. S.'s first notice of; anti-slavery agitation; death- knell of; Jefferson, Washington,
Hamilton, and Patrick Henry on; growth of; résumé of its history; responsibility of church
for; Lord Carlisle's opinion on; moral effect of; sacrilege of; its past and future; its injustice;
its death-blow; English women's appeal against; J. Q. Adams' crusade against; gone forever.

Slaves, H. B. S.'s work for and sympathy with; family sorrows of.

Smith, Anna, helper to Mrs. S.; note.

Soul, immortality of, H. B. S.'s essay written at age of twelve: first literary production;
Addison's remarks upon; Greek and Roman idea of immortality; light given by Gospel; Christ on.

South, England's sympathy with the.

South Framingham, good audience at reading in.

"Souvenir, The."

Spiritualism, Mrs. Stowe on; Mrs. Browning on; Holmes, O. W., on; "La Mystique" and Görres
on; Professor Stowe's strange experiences in; George Eliot on psychical problems of; on "Charlatanerie"
connected with; Robert Dale Owen on; Goethe on; H. B. S.'s letter to George Eliot on; her mature
views on; a comfort to doubters and disbelievers; from Christian standpoint.

Stafford House meeting.

Stephens, A. H., on object of Confederacy.

Storrs, Dr. R. S.

Stowe, Calvin E.; death of first wife; his engagement to Harriet E. Beecher; their marriage;
his work in Lane Seminary; sent by the Seminary to Europe on educational matters; returns;
his Educational Report presented; aids a fugitive slave; strongly encourages his wife in her
literary aspirations; care of the sick students in Lane Seminary; is "house-father" during
his wife's illness and absence; goes to water cure after his wife's return from the same; absent
from Cincinnati home at death of youngest child; accepts the Collins Professorship at Bowdoin;
gives his mother his reasons for leaving Cincinnati; remains behind to finish college work,
while wife and three children leave for Brunswick, Me.; resigns his professorship at Bowdoin,
and accepts a call to Andover; accompanies his wife to Europe; his second trip with wife to
Europe; sermon after his son's death; great sorrow at his bereavement; goes to Europe for the
fourth time; resigns his position at Andover; in Florida; failing health; his letter to George
Eliot; H. B. S. uses his strange experiences in youth as material for her picture of "Harry"
in "Oldtown Folks;" the psychological history of his strange child-life; curious experiences
with phantoms, and good and bad spirits; visions of fairies; love of reading; his power of
character-painting shown in his description of a visit to his relatives; George Eliot's mental
picture of his personality; enjoys life and study in Florida; his studies on Prof. Görres'
book, "Die Christliche Mystik," and its relation to his own spiritual experience; love for
Henry Ward Beecher returned by latter; absorbed in "Daniel Deronda;" "over head and ears in
diablerie;" fears he has not long to live; dull at wife's absence on reading tour; enjoys proximity
to Boston Library, and "Life of John Qniney Adams;" death and note; letters from H. B. S. to;
on her illness; on cholera epidemic in Cincinnati; on sickness, death of son Charley; account
of new home; on her writings and literary aspirations; on success of "Uncle Tom's Cabin;" on
her interest in the Edmonson slave family; on life in London; on visit to the Duke of Argyle;
from Dunrobin Castle; on "Dred;" other letters from abroad; on life in Paris; on journey to
Rome; on impressions of Rome; on Swiss journey; from Florence; from Paris; on farewell to her
soldier son; visit to Duchess of Argyle; on her reading tour; on his health and her enforced
absence from him; on reading, at Chelsea; at Bangor and Portland; at South Framingham and Haverhill;
Peabody; fatigue at New London reading; letters from to H. B. S. on visit to his relatives
and description of home life; to mother on reasons for leaving the West; to George Eliot; to
son Charles.

Stowe, Charles E., seventh child of H. B. S., birth of; at Harvard; at Bonn; letter from Calvin
E. Stowe to; letter from H. B. S. to, on her school life; on "Poganuc People;" on her readings
in the West; on selection of papers and letters for her biography; on interest of herself and
Prof. Stowe in life and anti-slavery career of John Quincy Adams.

Stowe, Eliza Tyler (Mrs. C. E.), draft of: twin daughter of H. B. S.

Stowe, Frederick William, second son of H. B. S.; enlists in First Massachusetts; made lieutenant
for bravery; mother's visit to; severely wounded; subsequent effects of the wound, never entirely
recovers, his disappearance and unknown fate; ill-health after war, Florida home purchased
for his sake.

Stowe, Georgiana May, daughter of H. B. S., birth of; family happy in her marriage; letter
from H. B. S. to.

Stowe, Harriet Beecher, birth and parentage of; first memorable incident, the death of her
mother; letter to her brother Charles on her mother's death, incident of the tulip bulbs and
mother's gentleness, first journey a visit to her grandmother, study of catechisms under her
grandmother and aunt, early religious and Biblical reading, first school at the age of five,
hunger after mental food, joyful discovery of "The Arabian Nights," in the bottom of a barrel
of dull sermons, reminiscences of reading in father's library, impression made by the Declaration
of Independence, appearance and character of her stepmother, healthy, happy child-life, birth
of her half-sister Isabella and H. B. S.'s care of infant, early love of writing, her essay
selected for reading at school exhibitions, her father's pride in essay, subject of essay,
arguments for belief in the Immortality of the Soul, end of child-life in Litchfield, goes
to sister Catherine's school at Hartford, describes Catherine Beecher's school in letter to
son, her home with the Bulls, school friends, takes up Latin, her study of Ovid and Virgil,
dreams of being a poet and writes "Cleon," a drama, her conversion, doubts of relatives and
friends, connects herself with First Church, Hartford, her struggle with rigid theology, her
melancholy and doubts, necessity of cheerful society, visit to grandmother, return to Hartford,
interest in painting lessons, confides her religious doubts to her brother Edward, school life
in Hartford, peace at last, accompanies her father and family to Cincinnati, describes her
journey, yearnings for New England home, ill-health and depression, her life in Cincinnati
and teaching at new school established by her sister Catherine and herself, wins prize for
short story, joins "Semicolon Club," slavery first brought to her personal notice, attends
Henry Ward Beecher's graduation, engagement, marriage, anti-slavery agitation, sympathy with
Birney, editor of anti-slavery paper in Cincinnati, birth of twin daughters, of her third child,
reunion of the Beecher family, housekeeping versus literary work, birth of second son, visits
Hartford, literary work encouraged, sickness in Lane Seminary, death of brother George, birth
of third daughter, protracted illness and poverty, seminary struggles, goes to water cure,
returns home, birth of sixth child, bravery in cholera epidemic, death of youngest child Charles,
leaves Cincinnati, removal to Brunswick, getting settled, husband arrives, birth of seventh
child, anti-slavery feeling aroused by letters from Boston, "Uncle Tom's Cabin," first thought
of, writings for papers, "Uncle Tom's Cabin" appears as a serial, in book form, its wonderful
success, praise from Longfellow, Whittier, Garrison, Higginson, letters from English nobility,
et seq.; writes "Key to Uncle Tom's Cabin," visits Henry Ward in Brooklyn, raises money to
free Edmondson family, home-making at Andover, first trip to Europe, wonderful success of "Uncle
Tom's Cabin" abroad, her warm reception at Liverpool,; delight in Scotland; public reception
and teaparty at Glasgow; warm welcome from Scotch people; touched by the "penny offering" of
the poor for the slaves; Edinburgh soirée; meets English celebrities at Lord Mayor's dinner
in London; meets English nobility; Stafford House; breakfast at Lord Trevelyan's; Windsor;
presentation of bracelet; of inkstand; Paris, first visit to; en route for Switzerland; Geneva
and Chillon; Grindelwald to Meyringen; London, en route for America; work for slaves in America;
correspondence with Garrison, et. seq.; "Dred"; second visit to Europe; meeting with Queen
Victoria; visits Inverary Castle; Dunrobin Castle; Oxford and London; visits the Laboucheres;
Paris; en route to Rome; Naples and Vesuvius; Venice and Milan; homeward journey and return;
death of oldest son; visits Dartmouth; receives advice from Lowell on "The Pearl of Orr's Island";
"The Minister's Wooing"; third trip to Europe; Duchess of Sutherland's warm welcome; Switzerland;
Florence; Italian journey; return to America; letters from Ruskin, Mrs. Browning, Holmes; bids
farewell to her son; at Washington; her son wounded at Gettysburg; his disappearance; the Stowes
remove to Hartford; Address to women of England on slavery; winter home in Florida; joins the
Episcopal Church; erects schoolhouse and church in Florida; "Palmetto Leaves"; "Poganuc People";
warm reception at South; last winter in Florida; writes "Oldtown Folks"; her interest in husband's
strange spiritual experiences; H. B. S. justifies her action in Byron Controversy; her love
and faith in Lady Byron; reads Byron letters; counsels silence and patience to Lady Byron;
writes "True Story of Lady Byron's Life"; publishes "Lady Byron Vindicated"; "History of the
Byron Controversy"; her purity of motive in this painful matter; George Eliot's sympathy with
her in Byron matter; her friendship, with George Eliot dates from letter shown by Mrs. Follen;
describes Florida life and peace to George Eliot; her interest in Mr. Owen and spiritualism;
love of Florida life and nature; history of Florida home; impressions of "Middlemarch"; invites
George Eliot to come to America; words of sympathy on Beecher trial from George Eliot, and
Mrs. Stowe's reply; her defense of her brother's purity of life; Beecher trial drawn on her
heart's blood; her mature views on spiritualism; her doubts of ordinary manifestations; soul-cravings
after dead friends satisfied by Christ's promises; chronological list of her books; accepts
offer from N. E. Lecture Bureau to give readings from her works; gives readings in New England;
warm welcome in Maine; sympathetic audiences in Massachusetts; fatigue of traveling and reading
at New London; Western reading tour; "fearful distances and wretched trains"; seventieth anniversary
of birthday celebrated by Houghton, Mifflin & Co.; H. 0. Houghton's welcome; H. W. Beecher's
reply and eulogy on sister; Whittier's poem at seventieth birthday; Holmes' poem; other poems
of note written for the occasion; Mrs. Stowe's thanks; joy in the future of the colored race;
reading old letters and papers; her own letters to Mr. Stowe and letters from friends; interest
in Life of John Quincy Adams and his crusade against slavery; death of husband; of Henry Ward
Beecher; thinks of writing review of her life aided by son, under title of "Pebbles from the
Shores of a Past Life"; her feelings on the nearness of death, but perfect trust in Christ;
glimpses of the future life leave a strange sweetness in her mind.

Stowe, Harriet Beecher, twin daughter of H. B. S.

Stowe, Henry Ellis, first son of H. B. S.; goes to Europe; returns to enter Dartmouth; death
of; his character; his portrait; mourning for.

Stowe, Samuel Charles, sixth child of H. B. S., birth of; death of; anguish at loss of; early
death of.

Study, plans for a.

Sturge, Joseph, visit to.

Suffrage, universal, H. W. Beecher advocate of.

Sumner, Charles, on "Uncle Tom's Cabin"; letter to H. B. S. from.

Sumter, Fort, H. W. Beecher raises flag on.

"Sunny Memories"; date of.

Sutherland, Duchess of; friend to America; at Stafford House presents gold bracelet; visit
to; fine character; sympathy with on son's death; warm welcome to H. B. S.; death of; letters
from H. B. S. to, on "Key to Uncle Tom's Cabin"; on death of eldest son.

Sutherland, Lord, personal appearance of.

Swedenborg, weary messages from spirit-world of.

Swiss Alps, visit to; delight in.

Swiss interest in "Uncle Tom".

Switzerland, H. B. S. in.

Sykes, Mrs. See May, Georgiana.

Talfourd, Mr. Justice.

Thackeray, W. M., Lowell on.

Thanksgiving Day in Washington, freed slaves celebrate.

"Times, London," on "Uncle Tom's Cabin"; on Mrs. Stowe's new dress; on "Dred"; Miss Martineau's
criticism on.

Titcomb, John, aids H. B. S. in moving.

Tourgée, Judge A. W., his speech at seventieth birthday.

Trevelyan, Lord and Lady; breakfast to Mrs. Stowe.

Triqueti, Baron de, models bust of H. B. S.

Trowbridge, J. T., writes on seventieth birthday.

"True Story of Lady Byron's Life, The," in "Atlantic Monthly".

Tupper, M. F., calls on H. B. S.

"Uncle Tom's Cabin," description of Augustine St. Clair's mother's influence a simple reproduction
of Mrs. Lyman Beecher's influence; written under love's impulse; fugitives' escape, foundation
of story; popular conception of author of; origin and inspiration of; Prof. Cairnes on; Uncle
Tom's death, conception of, letter to Douglas about facts, appears in the "Era,", came from
heart, a religious work, object of, its power, begins a serial in "National Era," price paid
by "Era," publisher's offer, first copy of books sold, wonderful success. praise from Longfellow,
Whittier, Garrison, and Higginson, threatening letters, Eastman's, Mrs., rejoinder to, reception
in England, "Times," on, political effect of, book tinder interdict in South, "Key to Uncle
Tom's Cabin," Jenny Lind's praise of, attack upon, Sampson Low upon its success abroad, first
London publisher, number of editions sold in Great Britain and abroad, dramatized in U. S.
and London, European edition, preface to, fact not fiction, translations of, German tribute
to, George Sand's review, remuneration for, written with heart's blood, Swiss interest in,
Mme. Belloe translates, "North American Review" on, in France, compared with "Dred," J. R.
Lowell on, Mrs. Stowe rereads after war, later books compared with, H. W. Beecher's approval
of, new edition with introduction sent to George Eliot, date of, Whittier's mention of, in
poem on seventieth birthday, Holmes' tribute to, in poem on same occasion,

Upham, Mrs., kindness to H. B. S., visit to,

Venice,

Victoria, Queen, H. B. S.'s interview with, gives her picture to Geo. Peabody,

Vizetelly, Henry, first London publisher of "Uncle Tom's Cabin,"

WAKEFIELD, reading at,

Walnut Hills, picture of, and old home revisited,

Waltham, audience inspires reader,

Washington, Mrs. Stowe visits soldier son at,

Washington on slavery,

Water cure, H. B. S. at,

"We and our Neighbors," date of,

Webster, Daniel, famous speech of,

Weld, Theodore D. in the anti-slavery movement,

Western travel, discomforts of,

Whately, Archbishop, letter to H. B. S. from,

Whitney, A. D. T., writes poem on seventieth birthday,

Whitney, Eli, and the cotton gin,

Whittier's "Ichabod," a picture of Daniel Webster,

Whittier, J. G., letter to W. L. Garrison from, on "Uncle Tom's Cabin," letter to H. B. S.
from, on "Uncle Tom's Cabin," on "Pearl of Orr's Island," on "Minister's Wooing," poem on H.
B. S's. seventieth birthday,

Windsor, visit to,

Womanhood, true, H. B. S. on intellect versus heart,

Woman's rights, H. W. Beecher, advocate of,

Women of America, Appeal from H. B. S. to,

Women's influence, power of,

ZANESVILLE, description of,