His conscience smote him, warned him, and yet it did not seem possible that he could not take
a little as a remedy, as did other people. With the fatuity of a self-indulgent nature he remembered
its immediate relief from pain, and forgot the anguish it had caused. He no more proposed to
renew the habit than to destroy his life--he only proposed to tide himself over an emergency.

The drug was taken, and to his horror he found that it was the same as if he had kindled a
conflagration among combustibles ready for the match. His old craving asserted itself with
all its former force. His will was like a straw in the grasp of a giant. He writhed, and anathematized
himself, but soon, with the inevitableness of gravitation, went to another drug store and was
again enchained. [Footnote: It is a sad fact that more than half of those addicted to the opium
habit relapse. The causes are varied, but the one given is the most common: it is taken to
bridge over some emergency or to give relief from physical pain or mental distress. The infatuated
victim says, "I will take it just this once," and then he goes on taking it until it destroys
him. I have talked with several who have given way for the second and third time, and with
one physician who has relapsed five times.  They each had a somewhat different story to tell,
but the dire results were in all cases the same. After one indulgence, the old fierce craving,
the old fatal habit, was again fixed, with more than its former intensity and binding power.]

For a few days Mr. Jocelyn tried to conceal his condition from his family, but their eyes were
open now, and they watched him at first with alarm, then with terror. They pleaded with him;
his wife went down on her knees before him; but, with curses on himself, he broke away and
rushed forth, driven out into the wilderness of a homeless life like a man possessed with a
demon.  In his intolerable shame and remorse he wrote that he would not return until he had
regained his manhood. Alas! that day would never come.

CHAPTER XLIII

WAS BELLE MURDERED?

Mrs. Wheaton, Mr. Wentworth, and Roger did what they could for the afflicted family, and Roger
spent the greater part of several nights in a vain search for the absent man, but he had hidden
himself too securely, and was drowning reason, conscience, his entire manhood, in one long
debauch. The young man grew more haggard than ever in his deep sympathy for his friends, for
they clung to him with the feeling that he only could help them effectually. He begged them
to move elsewhere, since the odors of the place were often sickening, but they all said No,
for the husband and father might return, and this now was their one hope concerning him.

In the second fall of her husband Mrs. Jocelyn seemed to have received her death-wound, for
she failed visibly every day.

One night Belle was taken with a severe chill, and then fever and delirium followed. When Roger
came the ensuing evening, Mildred sobbed on his shoulder.

"Oh, Roger, my heart is paralyzed with dread. The skies you were making so bright for us have
become black with ruin. You are the only one who brings me any hope or comfort. Come with me.
Look at Belle there. She doesn't know any of us. For the last hour her mind has wandered. Half
the time she is thanking you for all that you have done for us; then she calls for papa, or
is away in the country. The doctor has been here, and he looked very grave. He says it's all
due to the bad sanitary condition of this part of the city, and that there are other cases
just like it, and that they are hard to manage. Why didn't we move before? Oh, oh, oh!" and
she cried as if her heart would break.

"Don't grieve so, Millie," Roger faltered. "I never could stand it to see tears in your eyes.
Belle is young and vigorous; she'll pull through."

