"Mrs. Pearl spoke of our method as the science of silence, and told us not to be zealous without
judgment, not to speak when silence would be golden, not to act so as to bring reproach upon
our cause or ourselves, but remember to 'avoid even the appearance of evil.' She said many
in their first joyous enthusiasm and overwhelming conviction would indiscreetly tell people
'there is no matter,' for instance, so eager were they to bring everybody into the sweet liberty
of the spirit; but the world not being ready to properly consider the subject, would of course
ridicule and argue hotly against such a statement, so that false opinions would spring up and
most absurd practices and claims be attributed to Christian Healing.

"Our system should have a dignified place in the world's opinion, and if we want to help give
it that place, we should aim to be living representatives of the principles, maintain a dignified
attitude regarding it, and if we can answer any questions pertaining to it, let our answer
and manners be ennobling and Christ-like.

"We never argue audibly with unbelievers. Argument kills the spirit of any religion, and the
person who desires to prove his position by argument is not ready to be convinced by the spirit.
If you are obliged to carry on a conversation with an argumentative person, silently deny all
his statements of error, and with calm positiveness affirm for him intelligence, wisdom, and
a desire to know truth. In other words, recognize his spiritual self, which is in perfect peace
and harmony, and the outward disturbance or inharmony, which is simply nothingness expressed
by him, is annulled. Possibly you may seem obliged to submit and listen to him. Never mind.
Carry on your silent thoughts scientifically, and constantly think truth. Thus you will plant
a seed that shall bring forth beauteous blossoms, excellent fruit.

"Whenever you hear error talked, deny it. This is 'shutting your ears from hearing of blood,
and your eyes from seeing evil.' Any error must be denied in order to see the proof of its
opposite truth.

"If everybody would learn to deny all the slander or gossip they hear, we should soon have
a new social world. Cruel tongues would cease their wagging, timid hearts could breathe again,
and fair names bloom in every home.

"This would be the beginning of a much needed reform in the daily press. Poor editors, they
are obliged to fill orders, like the cooks and waiters serving the gentlemen and ladies in
the elegant dining-room, ladies' ordinary and ground-floor café. Alas! that the discovery should
not be made by everybody, so they could send in different orders. How gladly would the bill
of fare be changed!

"But there is nothing more certain to change it, than the little leaven of truth dropped in
the highways and byways of daily life. We must 'be diligent in season and out of season,' silently
as a rule, but at times audibly, perchance forcibly, for some minds seem so dull and sluggish
as to need a startling thunder-clap to awaken them from their slumber of ignorance. Thus some
patients that come to be healed must be told sharply and definitely how to think or what to
say, for sometimes it is necessary to make them say their own word of healing, they are so
completely absorbed in material beliefs.

"We grow more in wisdom and spiritual judgment as we proceed faithfully along our way of scientific
thought and living, and thus have an unerring insight into what we shall do and say in order
to give to each the healing gospel.

"When we go to church we ought to acknowledge and emphasize every true statement made by the
clergyman with our silent affirmation, and as emphatically deny every erroneous statement,
that we may turn the tide of Truth into a broad stream of spiritual uplifting for the whole
congregation.

"Should the minister be inclined to speak about the awfulness and power of God's wrath and
punishment, we can silently assure him that God is a God of love, not wrath, and tell him he
desires to present only the true side of religion. Some people might say this would be wrong,
to dictate to any one how they should talk, but you will notice that it is not dictation of
action, but rather recognition of motive--the true motive of the true self. We have a right
to recognize the highest and best of every person. Indeed, we are going directly opposite God's
commands if we acknowledge any but the good creation, which is the spiritual.

"What can the spirit, which is perfect, made in God's image and likeness, have to say of God's
anger or punishment, when it knows neither, inasmuch as it is pure as the Father in heaven?
'Shall not the judge of all the earth do right?'

"Not only in the social circle and in the church, but in all kinds of work, in all affairs
of business, and above all, in the home, must we thus live up to our principles which soon
prove our sublimest theory by our sublimest practice. And, blessed privilege, we do not need
to understand all, before we can begin to demonstrate our precious religion.

"We need not worry about the burden of to-morrow and thus drop that of to-day, but only carry
that of to-day with the strength that is given for the day. 'Consider the lilies of the field,
how they grow;' daily appropriating their portion of sunshine and air and dew, they unfold
and blossom, exhale their fragrance, display their matchless beauty, thus fulfilling their
appointed mission; so we may unfold and blossom into rare excellence and strength of character.
Refreshed by the dew of a pure purpose, nourished by the sunlight of true thoughts, fed by
the all-abounding manna--the living word, we soon grow strong enough to withstand driving tempest
or boisterous gale.

"Mentally we are quickened, learning to discern the opposing force in ourselves, and meeting
it with the sharp sword of truth, lay it low at once. But it requires practice to wield this
spiritual weapon; it takes judgment faculty to discover whence comes selfishness that exhausts
and weakens; whence comes the material or sensual thought that sickens and wearies, or the
jealousy that poisons and embitters the life-forces.

"Faithfully and diligently do we use the word of denial, that sets us and our patients free
from these subtle enemies; faithfully and earnestly we affirm all truth and purity and goodness
as our portion, as our strength, our refuge, and our defense.

"By the blessed law, when we have thus cleansed ourselves, we become at one with the one Life.
We intuitively draw to ourselves the best quality of friendship and give forth the best; we
seek the most uplifting and spiritual literature, because it gives us a fresh baptism of spiritual
light, which in turn we give to others, so there is a continual receiving and giving, a continual
blessing and being blessed.

"'Henceforth I call you not servants, but friends,' said the Master before his departure. Now
'the servant abideth not in the house forever, but the son abideth forever.' We came as servants
to be taught. While in our ignorance, we were the servants or inferiors; knowing the Truth
we became free, and henceforth are brothers, sisters, 'heirs of God and joint heirs with Christ.'
We now claim our inheritance, the privilege to enter into the kingdom and possess the land,
our royal birthright. In this kingdom are 'hid all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge.'

"The patient who comes to us must on this day be told of the royal gift of health, and we may
say: 'Now are ye clean through the word I have spoken unto you.' He, too, must now become the
friend, and need no longer be the servant. When he first came to us he was like a little child
that had lost his way. We could not show him the way to the velvet slopes of health without
taking hold of his hand and leading him through the thickets and underbrush in which he was
lost. So we graciously reached down to him, by talking of things with which he was familiar,
of animal passions, of selfishness, of sin. We gently and kindly showed him they were not the
true, proved to him that his belief in them had led him off the right path, and talked to him
of brighter, better, truer thoughts that led to smiling skies of hope, to balmy airs of peace.

"Each day we assured him of his true inheritance, and now we confidently assert that he is
in full possession of it. Now he is ready to believe the affirmation without the denial, because
he is convinced that the affirmations are true, and he comes to us this day with clear, clean
eyes, and a child-like joy in his recovered health. We give him the final word, the benediction,
the binding assurance of his birthright.

"Realizing as we must ourselves the wondrous truth concerning his real self and all which that
implies, we impressively and with the most thrilling conviction affirm for him that only health,
strength, joy, courage, peace, satisfaction, can come to him as the child of God, the idea
of Mind in the power of the Thought that thinks him into being. We assure him that he can recognize
and reflect nothing but Good, that he can manifest only the Father whose son he knows himself
to be. Nothing but Mind can affect him. He is like a column of light against which no darkness
can be thrown; like a true answer to a problem which any number of wrong answers can not change.
Spiritual like God, he can only recognize and appropriate what is God-like. Henceforth he knows
himself and his Father, knows that whatever he may ask (realize) will be granted unto him.
Knows that he must acknowledge the Truth, and he will abide in the kingdom of Good.

"We send him forth with all the blessings he can desire, because we have realized for him the
possession of those blessings. Knowing that God is all there is, and that our patient lives,
is moved and has his being in God, we point with unerring finger to the sunny uplands of health.
He can never more relapse as he will ever walk in the open fields of Truth. We bid him God
speed on his journey, and thank God that he has come into the consciousness of life everlasting,
into health and joy without measure. So be it forever more.

"The thought of perfection should be held steadfastly, even though the patient do not manifest
health at once. No matter if the cure is not effected in one, two, three weeks, or even as
many months, hold fast, with unwavering faith (even if you do not give regular treatments all
the time, and it may be well to skip a week or so occasionally), knowing that good seed must
bring forth good fruit; when, where or how, you nor no other may know. Time is unthinkable
with God. We are dealing with Principle, not time. We plant the seed, 'God giveth the increase.'

"Do the best you know, and work out your own problems. No one else can do that for you. Jesus
gave us the key, showed us the way; more than that he could not do. We must live our lives
and maintain our place by our own efforts. It is 'he that overcometh' who receives the supreme
gift of eternal life."

CHAPTER XXXVI.

"Mrs. Hayden's was a joyous home-coming. No sooner was the first rapturous welcome from children
and husband received, than in came Grace and Kate, who, in their eagerness to see her, had
scarcely been able to let her have the first half hour to her family.

"I think you will have to include us in your family, Mrs. Hayden, for we could not resist the
family welcome, said Grace, smiling with happiness, as she grasped Mrs. Hayden's hand and drew
Kate close beside her with the other.

"You are included my dears. There is but one family you know," was the cordial reply grasping
the hand of each.

"What a change in you, Grace--Kate--why, I should hardly know you," exclaimed Mrs. Hayden,
after the first excitement was over.

"Grace has lost the cloud of perplexity and doubt, and Kate the expression of fear," she added,
turning to Mr. Hayden with a pleased surprise.

"Didn't I tell you they were both growing beautiful?" was his laughing answer. "But girls,"
he added, "don't you notice something different in Mrs. Hayden? That is quite wonderful, I think."

"Really, Mrs. Hayden," exclaimed Grace, with wonder, "you are not nearly so fleshy are you?
I can hardly define the change, if that is not it, but I noticed something the moment I saw you."

"I have lost something in weight since I left home," she replied, somewhat amused at their
looks of astonishment.

"Your figure is so much better proportioned, too," continued Grace.

"And your complexion clearer," added Kate.

"Do tell us what it all means. You certainly look better than I ever saw you," said Grace again.

"I am quite thankful she came home before all resemblance to my wife was lost," said Mr. Hayden,
with a hearty laugh, as he looked at each in turn.

"Well, be serious now, and I will tell you something after I have put the children to bed,"
said Mrs. Hayden, cuddling the sleepy Jem in her arms. Fred and Mabel stood beside her, frequently
interrupting the conversation, for they, too, wanted to share the good time with mamma. When
Mrs. Hayden returned, she resumed.

"It may seem strange to you as it did to me at first, but I see it clearly now, that desiring,
searching and living for right, brings the body into harmonious expression. If we think truth,
we see it expressed in harmony, beauty, symmetry, because the external is the expression of
the internal."

"It was particularly by the denial of matter that I lost the superfluous flesh, for since I
was too fleshy to be of symmetrical form, it was superfluous and----"

"Did you know the denial of matter would have such an effect?" interrupted Kate.

"No, not till I heard some of the rest of the class speaking of it, and then I could hardly
believe it, but after I understood the theory better, of course it seemed more reasonable."

"It is both wonderful and reasonable too, I think. Why didn't you write something about it?"
asked Kate again.

"Oh, there are many things that can be told better than written."

"And many things that can be thought better than told," added Grace, thoughtfully.

"Another lady in the class had about the same experience," said Mrs. Hayden.

"But tell us the scientific reason for such an effect?" continued Grace.

"I will, as well as I can. Have you noticed that it is people who are materially minded in
their tastes and habits that are apt to be fleshy?"

"That depends upon what you would call materially minded," was Grace's smiling reply.

"I mean those who like what the world calls the good things of life--those who think a great
deal of material pleasures or environments, and find it comparatively difficult to think or
realize spiritual things."

"Oh!----yes, I believe that is true, although I have never thought of it," said Grace, slowly.

"Because the denial of matter makes all these things secondary, the effect of the new thought
is to make the body more spiritual."

"Of course! Why could we not see it before?" was Kate's conclusive query.

"What effect then, has this denial on lean people?" asked Mr. Hayden, more seriously, for until
now he had been inclined to regard this as a little 'far fetched,' as he would have expressed it.

"It does not effect them like the denial of evil, because material things are not so important
to them, while they are apt to be pining and fretting about the evils and ills in the world,
either as touching themselves or humanity in general. Denying evil and evil conditions would
then have the opposite effect, and cause them to gain flesh, or grow into the expression of
physical harmony to correspond with the spiritual."

"This is only a higher reading of what we have already learned, and it is lovely to know we
may go on indefinitely, ever reading something new," said Grace.

"Now tell me something of what you have all been doing?" said Mrs. Hayden, as she looked at Grace.

"Oh, Kate has been doing some wonderful treating among her pupils, and the patients we took
up, are all doing nicely."

"Grace is very modest. She doesn't say a word of how quickly she cured me of neuralgia, or
a horrible fit of the blues," supplemented Kate, looking fondly at Grace, who had become dearer
than ever since their confidential talks.

"Mr. Hayden has a good report for himself and the children, too, though I suppose you have
heard from him," Grace remarked with a smile. He looked rather pleased at her thoughtfulness,
but said: "I would rather hear more from Marion. Were there many cures in the class?"

"Several. Mrs. Dexter, the lady I mentioned in my letters as having been a long while under
the doctor's care, went home perfectly well, and Miss Singleton also, of whom I wrote. A gentleman
who had been in a previous class told his experience. His right arm had been fractured in the
army. Orders were given that it should be amputated, but by the intervention of a physician
with whom he was acquainted, the arm was saved, though he had never been able to use it much.
At times it was very painful. It was so weak he could scarcely lift a plate of bread to pass
it at the table. After a few lessons, that arm was just as well as the other. In his joy he
told everybody. When the doctors got hold of it, they laughed at him saying if that arm was
as large as the other in six months, they would believe there was something in Christian Healing.
In six weeks it was as large and strong and sound as the other."

"That was remarkable," said Mr. Hayden, speaking for all. "Did you hear anything about treating
animals?" he added after a momentary silence.

"Oh, yes. We may think of an animal as the perfect expression of God's thought, as manifesting
the true Life, the same as human beings."

"After all," said Kate, "that is something we ought to expect, for are we not promised dominion
over all things?"

"Certainly, and we are not proving our right, till we prove the dominion," answered Mrs. Hayden.
"It is a beautiful thought to me, and several of the class told of successful work in this
line. One lady had treated a frightened horse, and made him so gentle any one could drive him.
It is mostly fear that is reflected upon animals. They manifest thought, even as humanity does."

"I have often noticed horses. They are apt to show the same disposition as their masters. This
explains it," said Mr. Hayden thoughtfully. "Why didn't you write about all this?"

"I was afraid it would be too strong meat for you, for I could scarcely realize it myself."

"It seems as though we have had so many wonderful suggestions it will take a life time to understand
them," remarked Kate.

"There is no end to the study of Infinity," was Mrs. Hayden's reply.

"How do you account for the quick cures?" interposed Grace.

"It all depends upon how quickly one receives the consciousness of Truth. That is the healing
process. But there are not very many quick cures, comparatively, though it is the quick cures
we should aim for and expect, for the cure is always in the degree of our realization of the
allness of God.

"Another of the older students told of some wonderful absent healing. A lady that had been
four years an invalid, and given up to die by five physicians in the place, was healed in three
weeks by absent treatment."

"Is that considered as effectual as present treatment?"

"There should be no difference, because we ought to realize that with Truth there is no space
nor time. All is the eternal now and here. Some prefer to give present treatment, especially
in acute cases; with others absent treatment seems more effectual."

"I am glad to hear that, for I feel that I can do better absently," said Grace, with a look
of relief.

"But tell me," questioned Kate, eagerly, "have all persons the same gifts?"

"In the germ, yes; but all are not equally developed. We enter this study in different stages
of unfoldment. Some heal quickly, others slowly; some teach naturally, while others find it
more difficult, especially at first. We develop the gift we desire to use by continually claiming
it and using it, and bye and bye we shall marvelously prove that we have it. In Love we recognize
no partiality, no time and no place, and thus we can truly say all we desire is truly ours."

Grace laid her hand on that of Mrs. Hayden, saying:

"Words can never express our gratitude to you both for your extreme kindness in allowing us
to read your beautiful letters, Mrs. Hayden. They have made life seem entirely different to
us." She was deeply in earnest, and her quivering lip spoke more than a volume of words.

"Grace speaks for us both," added Kate, huskily.

"Dear friends," replied Mrs. Hayden, much touched herself, "I am glad, yes, more than glad,
that you can speak so of my letters, of which the greatest merit lies in their simple earnestness--."
She ceased abruptly, and for a few moments all were silent....

It was a silence too full for words. A door had opened--a morning dawned for each of them.
The mysterious future verged into the mighty present. All that was grand and noble and tender
filled the measure of their aspirations. The world surely might enter into their joy, for their
joy surely entered into the world.

Mrs. Hayden broke the silence, saying:

"'Ask and it shall be given you; seek and ye shall find; knock and it shall be opened unto
you.' Many years have I asked and sought for the kingdom of heaven, but never till now have
I found the right knock."

CHAPTER XXXVII.

     Love is the high consummation and fulfillment of all Law. It casts
     out fear, discord and imperfection. To minister is God-like,
     Christ-like. * * * * The law of love reaches down, rules, and
     overcomes adverse laws which are below itself.--Henry Wood.

Outside, deepening twilight of a midwinter's day: inside, a bright grate fire, soft curtains,
beautiful rugs and simple but elegant adornings for mantel and wall in this lovely room of
a lovely home.

The only occupant is a young woman--young because of the real life of which she so vividly
and strongly expresses a consciousness, the only life after all to be expressed, and which,
rightly appropriated will and must forever be clothed with the freshness and vigor of youth.
The young woman is Grace Hall Carrington.

She sits before the glowing embers in an expectant attitude. She is evidently waiting for some
one, and as she waits, her mind seems full of pleasant musing. The three years that have passed
since we saw her have ripened her character. We can see that. The unrest and longing which
pervaded her whole being in the old days are gone. A poise and calmness of spirit have taken
their place. Even her attitude as she sits there with the shadows flickering over her, is full
of a suggestive alertness that expresses an awakened life. The forces that had slumbered so
long in her being are fully alive to their duty and their privilege. Yes, Grace Carrington
is awake, and happy as a wife and woman should be. She is thinking even now of the richness
of effort and opportunity that have been hers in these last years. She had been particularly
fortunate in her marriage. Few women have as much to be thankful for as she has in this respect,
but then, she waited to find her true womanhood before she found a husband. Perhaps that had
something to do with it. At any rate she is satisfied that she waited.

The door bell rings. A moment later she is greeting two visitors. Who but the friends we knew
in the old days--Kate Turner and Mrs. Hayden?

"I really expected you sooner, Mrs. Hayden; Kate is more uncertain. One never knows when to
look for her; but never mind, we are together again, so come up to the fire and let us get
settled for the evening." And Grace hastened to make her friends comfortable.

"Oh but it is nice to get home occasionally," cried Kate with a shrug of pleasure as she looked
around the beautiful room and then at the smiling hostess.

"I only wish you would come oftener Kathie. It seems like the old days to have you here," replied
Grace with a loving pat.

"I suspect Kate has a bit of news for us," remarked Mrs. Hayden, as she sat down near the fire.

"Indeed," exclaimed Grace, lifting her eyebrows, and tightening her hold of her friend's hand.
"And is the momentous question decided, dearie?

"Yes, and I am to report for duty next week," was the reply.

"Good for you, Kathie. I always knew the Truth would make your music heard, and as Professor
Beal's assistant it will be heard a long way and to good advantage."

"She is reaping the reward of her trust in the Law," said Mrs. Hayden. "That is the only thing
that will make the working sure."

"Well Kate, you have trusted surely, and to think what a proof this is!"

"How you talk Grace! One might think you had never proven it at all, or that your work didn't
bear witness to your own trust," reproved Mrs. Hayden, smiling.

"Oh well, girls, my work has been of the silent order altogether, or rather it has consisted
more of silence than work. There's no telling how it will show up," was the blushing response.

It had been a standing joke with the three as to how Grace managed her "liege lord," inasmuch
as he had never been quite won over to the Healing, protesting that he had no time for such
things, persisting in a good-natured skepticism, although strangely enough he believed a great
many things when they were presented without the name of "Healing" attached to them.

"Perhaps that very silence is the secret of its showing, for I assure you it shows," resumed
the elder friend, who still seemed to the other two, the incarnation of all that was noble
and wise.

"Do tell us the way you manage anyway, Grace," begged Kate, with special reasons for inquiring.

"Why my dear, there's nothing to tell unless it be that a bland silence is a good thing to
cultivate. There's no use in making so much of a bugbear of these people who seem to oppose,
and the best way to lead them into the green pastures is to let them nibble along the outside
until they want to jump the fence and get over in spite of you. Now Leon is really quite hungry
to know some things, especially about the practical application of thought to business, but
he knows just where and how to find what he wants, so I let him take his own time and his own way."

"Which will end, of course, in his wanting to know all, providing you have the patience to
wait", laughed Kate.

"That is a foregone conclusion. I can wait, and I will," said Grace. "Besides," she continued
more soberly, "I must consider Leon's rights. He should not be forced to a conclusion simply
because I hold it. A hot-bed growth, produced by whatever means, will not bear the hardy, healthy
bloom of a natural development. He may be slow but he must be true."

"There Grace, you have touched the keynote," exclaimed Mrs. Hayden warmly. "It is freedom people
need, freedom to think and act the highest, for everybody has a highest."

"Yes, if they can only keep the channels open for the inspiration of the highest to come to
them or work through them," remarked Kate with a gesture of doubt.

"What better way is there to give freedom or open the channel, than to destroy prejudice, put
away antagonism and--"

"Either in yourself or others," interposed Grace, "for to hold prejudice or to believe in evil
is always an obstruction."

"After all, it all hinges upon the non-resistance of evil," said Kate.

"Yes, one of the first laws of the beautiful Christlife, and yet one of the very last to be
practiced in my experience. I tell you girls, it is the lesson of non-resistance we most need."
Mrs. Hayden spoke earnestly as she always did, and her words carried weight.

"Go on, Mrs. Hayden. If I'm asleep anywhere, I wish you would wake me up," cried Kate, drawing
the hassock upon which she sat, close up to the elder lady, and putting one hand in her friend's
lap, as she waited expectantly for the answer.

"Well dear, I'm only talking on general principles, and what I have discovered in myself--"

"Please tell us what you have found Mrs. Hayden," said Grace. "We need all the light we can
get, and no matter how it may cut, we won't shrink will we, Kathie?" with a loving glance at
the latter.

"No, we'll only know and be glad that the hot blaze of truth is melting some more of the dark
spots in our range of vision," returned Kate.

"It is only this," began Mrs. Hayden, modestly. "I have been looking my theory and practice
squarely in the face lately, and I find them in many things quite widely separated. For instance,
I have been saying for three years that there is no evil, while in many cases my actions have
carried the very opposite idea, and--"

"Why, what do you mean, Mrs. Hayden?" cried Kate in astonishment, "who has been more faithful,
who more loving, and who more successful in proving the unreality of sickness and evil?"

"For one thing then, I have never put away the tendency to pronounce judgments on people or
things, and I must get beyond that before I prove that I mean what I say, when I say there
is no reality in evil."

"But surely we can't help seeing the negative side of things," was Kate's remonstrance.

"No, but we can help making it positive, and we can avoid fighting against it if we only stick
to our first statement that there is but one Law."

"I see what you mean," said Grace quietly. "You mean that we must hold so perfectly to the
allness of Good, that no shadow of ignorance can ever darken our vision or our consciousness."

"Yes, indeed, we all see that that is the ultimate," interposed Kate with some warmth, "but
when and how are we to reach it?"

"In the first place we must know that the ultimate is always in the Now, and that by holding
to our highest statements with that thought, we can rest in the consciousness of the allness
of Good as Grace has expressed it. With that consciousness there is no judgment and no resistance."

Kate still looked mystified, "Please make it a little plainer," she begged.

"Well, last summer when I was called to treat Mrs. Hart's child, as you know, the father knew
little or nothing of the Science, and when he insisted on having a physician what did I do?
Instead of calmly realizing that all the medicine in the world could not hurt Truth, and dealing
with his ignorance as I would with his fear, I felt that it would be a terrible thing to countenance
such disloyalty, and so withdrew from treating the case, forgetting that the father's ignorance
could not be called disloyalty; forgetting that my faithfulness to principle would be the same
regardless of any and all ignorance. In fact my action belied my words that there is no reality
in evil."

"But--why, what else could you do?" asked Kate with a puzzled frown.

"I could, or at least I ought to be able to maintain my faith and my consciousness of Good
just the same under those, as other circumstances, and so make no resistance."

"Oh yes, I see what you mean," exclaimed Grace suddenly. "You mean that we make something of
what we declare as nothing?"

"Exactly, Grace. We resist it by thinking it something antagonistic to Truth, whereas we should
remember our first statement that there is but one Power. It is the One that heals in every
instance. We know that. Why should we stop to combat what other people think or do not think?"

"There! Now I understand you," ejaculated Kate with a brightening face. "It is the One only
which acts under all disguises, and--but what would you have us do?" suddenly falling into
doubt again. As of old Kate was ever the questioner.

"Dear, I am not talking of persons or laying down rules of action for anybody, but I am giving
you my idea of the non-resistance of evil. The question with me is, am I 'about my Father's
business.' If I accuse someone of being unfaithful, or if I criticise any methods, means or
persons, I still believe in something besides the Good. Even if I accuse myself in any way
no matter how slight the fault, I am recognizing that which I have declared does not and never
did exist. You see what I mean. There is no use to multiply examples."

"Oh yes, I see, but can I live up to it? That is the all important question," was the dreamily
earnest reply.

"As for that I might say the same, but we are not to look at that side of the question. A safe
and I think the very best guide to right living, is to measure every act by the standard of
love. Would love prompt this or that thought, or decision or action? It is very easy to decide."

A thoughtful silence fell upon the group. The evening shadows grew deeper outside. The firelight
cast long crimson shafts of light into the corners, and flickered fitfully over the faces and
forms before the grate.

"I have been learning a lesson too." It was Kate who broke the silence. Her voice was reverential.
Her eyes were bright with an inner light. "I have been holding strongly to the name--the name
of Jesus Christ--and realizing what it means, and it has helped me more than anything."

"What does it mean, Kate? That is something which is still a little tainted with the old superstitious
worship of a personality," said Grace.

"Beware, Grace; that is criticism. Put it away until you know," warned Mrs. Hayden.

"Thank you. Tell me every time," returned Grace humbly.

"Indeed, this contemplation of the name takes one farther from personality or the recognition
of mere person than anything else," Kate went on earnestly. "Jesus Christ means God or Truth
manifest. Holding the words with that thought, all sense of person, limitation, or time, disappears.
Wisdom and power come to fill your consciousness, until the Christ life seems not only a possibility
but a real demonstration." Kate paused. Perhaps she had said too much!

But there was no mistaking the vibration of a sympathetic thought, even if the pressure of
friendly hands had not reassured her.

"It is wonderful how many ways there are of attaining the same end," mused Grace. "Now I can
gain the same state of mind Kate speaks of, by holding to the idea of Law. To me everything
is embodied in that, although of course, any great word understood as to its real meaning is
an all-inclusive term. But we cannot always live in an ecstasy."

"We should not if we could," said Mrs. Hayden. "We must get beyond that if we ever attain the
mental poise that will carry us through everything."

"But I am so weak," murmured Kate. "How shall I ever--"

"There, child, you are doing the very thing that will keep you from growing strong. What right
have you to pass judgment on Katherine Turner anymore than on anyone else?" said Mrs. Hayden
almost sternly; then suddenly softening her tone she added, "Dear heart, we must not let self
judgment or self condemnation creep in upon us to leave their blight of discouragement or failure.
No, the only way is to keep our eyes fixed on the mark of the high calling, resisting nothing,
carrying on our lips, success, in our hearts love, in our lives truth. By the outer we judge
nothing: by the inner we know all. Personally, that is, physically we are only a part of all
external limitation. Individually, that is, spiritually, we are the potentiality of Infinity
itself."

"And that means the possibility of true living, which is positively necessary to perfect demonstration,"
added Grace.

"Yes, perfect demonstration in oneself or in others," said Mrs. Hayden emphatically. "In fact
the first, last, and only consideration is or should be true living, or the ability to be lived."

"That is what it amounts to, after all," accorded Grace, "for what is true living but the setting
aside of self, so that the great, infinite Life may be established in our action, as a manifest
reality?"

Kate rose softly, and went to the piano. Then spoke the mighty Voice through Music, and through
that wondrous harmony a consciousness of the perfect Life, with all its power and presence,
burst upon these three who were no longer three but One. For that moment they knew and lived
only as the One, and in that moment the world received a baptism of blessed, healing tenderness.

         *       *       *       *       *

THE MYSTIC SUCCESS CLUB

was founded to carry on and extend the Teachings and Ministry of Our Magazine. One supplements
the other. Both are doing an unparalleled work in the redemption of humanity from Disease,
Sorrow and Poverty.

To spread the glad gospel of Health, Happiness and Prosperity is the special object of the

NEW YORK MAGAZINE of Mysteries.

To show how to attain and keep these God-given blessings, is the wonderful mission of the Mystic
Success Club.

Not by theory alone, but by daily, hourly practice, can an individual demonstrate any law.
The Law of Success is no exception. The Mysteries of Life can be known only when man understands
the mystery of his relations to God and the universe, as well as his relations to Man.

Through wise Counsel, Sympathy and the Mystic tie that binds all aspiring souls, the Mystic
Success Club is giving and will continue to give to its members, such vital help as only brotherly
and God inspired love can give.

The Mystic Success Club has a correspondence that reaches into the thousands, to what good
purpose and magnificent results, a glance at the Testimonials in Our Magazine will freely reveal.

You who desire to have Health, to have Happiness and to be Prosperous are invited to join the
Mystic Success Club. If you will drop us a postal card, we will send you at once, absolutely
free, our booklet entitled, "From Disease, Poverty and Drudgery to Health, Wealth, Power and
Success." After reading this booklet your faith will be great, because you will be confronted
with facts. When you feel an inner feeling to become one of us, write immediately an application
for membership in the Mystic Success Club. Every member must be a yearly subscriber to the

NEW YORK MAGAZINE of Mysteries

at $1.00 a year and get three friends to subscribe. Upon the receipt of the three subscriptions
for $3.00 you will be entered on our membership books as a full life member with no further
payments or dues of any kind whatsoever. We will then mail you the First Degree (for health).
By faithfully and regularly giving it a little of your time each day, it will put you on the
road to perfect and permanent health. At the end of thirty days, we will mail you the Second
Degree (for receptivity). In thirty days more the Third Degree (for attractiveness), and in
thirty days more the Fourth or Final Degree which prepares you for Realization. It takes four
months to work through the four degrees and you are then in a far more healthy, receptive and
attractive condition than you ever thought of being.

