When the feast was over Hrothgar and his queen departed from the hall, and Beowulf retired
to the When the feast was over Hrothgar and his queen departed from the hall, and Beowulf retired
to the house they had prepared for him. But the warriors remained as was their custom, and,
girt in their coats of chained mail, with swords ready at hand, they lay down upon the floor
to sleep, prepared to answer on the instant any call their lord should make. Dense darkness
closed upon the hall, and the Danes slept peacefully, unaware that danger threatened.

When midnight came, out of the cold waters of the reedy fastnesses in the marsh came Grendel's
mother, fierce and terrible in her wrath, burning to avenge the death of her son. Like Grendel
she wrenched the door from its iron fastenings and trod across the figured floor of Heorot.
With bitter malice she seized the favorite counselor of Hrothgar and rent his body limb from
limb. Then seizing from the wall the arm and shoulder of her son she ran quickly from the hall
and hid herself in her noisome lair.

The noise of her savage work aroused the sleeping Danes, and so loud were their cries of anger
and dismay that Hrothgar heard, and rushed forth to Heorot, where Beowulf met him.

As soon as Hrothgar heard what had happened he turned to Beowulf and cried, "O, mighty champion
of the Danes, yet again has grief and sorrow come upon me, for my favorite war companion and
chief counselor has been foully murdered by Grendel's mother, nor can we tell who next will
suffer from the foul fiend's wrath.

"Scarcely a mile from this place, in the depths of a grove of moss- covered trees, which are
hoary with age, and whose interlacing branches shut out the light of the sun, lies a stagnant
pool. Around the edges of its foul black water twine the snake-like roots of the trees, and
on its loathsome surface at night the magic fires burn dimly. In the midst of the pond, shunned
alike by man and beast, lives the wolf-like mother of Grendel. Darest thou to enter its stagnant
depths to do battle with the monster and to deliver us from her ravages?"

Straightening his massive form and throwing back his head in fierce determination, Beowulf
replied, "To avenge a friend is better than to mourn for him. No man can hasten or delay by
a single moment his death hour. What fate awaiteth me I know not, but I dare anything to wreak
vengeance on the foul murderer, and in my efforts to bring justice I take no thought of the
future."

Then the king Hrothgar ordered a noble steed with arching neck and tossing mane to be saddled
and brought forth for the noble Beowulf to ride. Shield bearers by the score accompanied him
as he rode on the narrow bridle path, between those dark-frowning cliffs whose rugged trees
dimmed the sun and made the journey seem as though it were in twilight. In such a manner came
they to the desolate lake in the gloomy wood.

The sight that met the eyes of Beowulf was enough to chill the blood of any man. On the shore
among the tangled roots of the trees crawled hideous poisonous snakes, while on the surface
of the water rolled great sea dragons, whose ugly crests were raised in anger and alarm. From
the turbid depths of the water, unholy animals of strange and fearful shapes kept coming to
the surface and swimming about with threatening mien.

Undaunted by these sickening sights, Beowulf blew a mighty blast upon his terrible war-horn,
at the sound of which the noisome animals slunk back to the slimy depths of the dismal pond.
Clad in his shirt of iron mail, wearing the hooded helmet that had often protected his head
from the savage blows of his enemies, and clasping in his hand the handle of his great knife,
Hrunting, whose hardened blade had carried death to many a strong foeman, Beowulf fronted the
awful lake.

Thus armed and protected, he plunged into the thickened oily waters, which closed quickly over
him, leaving but a few great bubbles to show where he had disappeared. Into the depths of the
dark abyss he swam until it seemed as though he were plunging straight into the jaws of death.

As his mighty strength neared exhaustion, Beowulf found the hall at the depth of the abyss,
and there saw Grendel's mother lying in wait for him. With her fierce claws she grappled him
and dragged him into her dismal water palace whose dark walls oozed with the slime of ages.
Recovering his breath, and fierce at the assault, Beowulf swung his heavy knife and brought
it down on the sea wolf's head. Never before had Hrunting failed him, but now the hard skull
of Grendel's mother turned the biting edge of the forged steel, and the blow twisted the blade
as though it were soft wire. Flinging aside his useless knife, Beowulf clutched the sea woman
with the mighty grip that had slain her son, and the struggle for mastery began. More than
once was Beowulf pushed nigh to exhaustion, but every time he recovered himself and escaped
from the deadly grasp of the powerful fiend who strove to take his life. As he grew weaker,
Grendel's mother seized her russet-bladed knife and with a mighty blow drove it straight at
the heart of Beowulf. Once again his trusty shirt of mail turned the blade, and by a last convulsive
effort he regained his feet.

As he rose from his dangerous position he saw glittering in his sight as it hung in the walls
of water, the hilt of a mighty sword, which was made for giants, and which no man on earth
but Beowulf could wield. Little he knew of its magic power, but he seized it in both hands,
and swinging it about his head in mighty curves, struck full at the head of the monster. Savage
was the blow, more mighty than human being ever struck before, and the keen edge of the sword
crashed through the brazen mail, cleft the neck of the sea wolf, and felled her dead upon the
floor. From her neck spurted hot blood which melted the blade and burned it away as frost wreathes
are melted by the sun. In his hand remained only the carven hilt.

On the shore of the dark lake the Danes waited anxiously for the reappearance of Beowulf, and
when blood came welling up through the dark waters they felt their champion had met his fate,
and returning to Heorot, they sat down to mourn in the great mead-hall.

Then among them strode Beowulf, carrying in one hand the great head of the sea woman and in
the other the blistered hilt of the sword, snake- shaped, carven with the legend of its forging.
Beowulf related the story of his combat and added, "When I saw that Grendel's mother was dead
I seized her head and swam upward again through the heaving waters, bearing the heavy burden
with me; and as I landed on the shore of the lake I saw its waters dry behind me, and bright
meadows with beautiful flowers take their place. The trees themselves put on new robes of green,
and peace and gladness settled over all. God and my strong right hand prospered me, and here
I show the sword with which the giants of old defied the eternal God, The enemies of God are
overcome, and here in Heorot may Hrothgar and his counselors dwell in peace."

The king and his counselors gathered round about Beowulf, and looked with wonder and amazement
on the head of the fierce sea monster and read with strange thrills of awe the wondrous history
of the sword and the cunning work of its forgers.

Then to Beowulf, Hrothgar spoke in friendly wise, "Glorious is thy victory, O Beowulf, and
great and marvelous is the strength that God hath given thee, but accept now in the hour of
thy success a word of kindly counsel. When a man rides on the high tide of success he may think
that his strength and glory are forever, but it is God alone who giveth him courage and power
over others, and in the end all must fall before the arrows of death. God sent Grendel to punish
me for my pride when I had freed the Danes and built my pinnacled mead-hall. Then when this
despair was upon me he brought thee to my salvation. Bear then thy honors meekly, and give
thanks to God that made thee strong. Go now into the feast and join thy happiness to that of
my warriors."

That day the high walls of Heorot rang with the thunderous shouts of the warriors and echoed
the inspiring words of the Skalds who sang of Beowulf's victory. When at last darkness settled
o'er the towers and pinnacles of the palace, the grateful Danes laid themselves down to sleep
in peace and safety, knowing that their slumber would never again be disturbed by the old sea
woman or her giant progeny.

CUPID AND PSYCHE

Adapted by ANNA MCCALEB

Once upon a time, in a far-off country whose exact location no man knows, there lived a king
whose chief glory and pride was in his three beautiful daughters. The two elder sisters were
sought in marriage by princes, but Psyche, by far the most beautiful of the three, remained
at her father's home, unsought. The fact was, she was so lovely that all the people worshiped
her as a goddess, while no man felt that he was worthy to ask for her hand.

"Shall a mere mortal," they said, "venture to seek the love of Venus, queen of beauty?"

When Psyche learned of the name they had given her she was frightened, for she knew well the
jealous, vengeful nature of the goddess of beauty. And she did well to fear; for Venus, jealous,
angry, was even then plotting her destruction.

"Go," she said to her son Cupid. "Wound that proud, impertinent girl with your arrows, and
see to it that she falls in love with some wretched, depraved human being. She shall pay for
attempting to rival me."

Off went the mischievous youth, pleased with his errand; but when he bent over the sleeping
Psyche and saw that she was far more beautiful than any one whom he had ever looked upon, he
started hastily back, and wounded, not the maiden, but himself, with his arrow. Happy, and
yet wretched in his love (for he knew his mother too well to fancy that she would relent toward
the offending Psyche), he stole away; and for days he did not go near his mother, knowing that
she would demand of him the outcome of his mission.

Meanwhile the old king, feeling that disgrace rested on his family because no man had come
to seek Psyche in marriage, sent messengers to ask of the oracle [Footnote: An oracle was a
place where some god answered questions about future happenings. The same name was also given
to the answers made by the god. The most famous oracles were that of Jupiter at Dodona and
that of Apollo at Delphi, the latter holding chief place. At Delphi there was a temple to Apollo
built over a chasm in the mountain side from which came sulphurous fumes. A priestess took
her seat on a tripod over this chasm, and the answers she gave to inquiries were supposed to
be dictated by the god. These answers were almost always unintelligible, and even when interpreted
by the priests were ambiguous and of little use. Nevertheless, the Greeks believed in oracles
firmly, and never undertook any important work without first consulting one or more of them.]
of Apollo whether he or his family had ignorantly offended any of the gods. Eagerly he watched
for the return of the messengers, but as they came back the sight of their white faces told
him that no favorable answer had been theirs.

"Pardon, O King," said the spokesman, "thy servants who bring thee ill news. We can but speak
the words of the gods, which were these:

"'For hear thy doom; a rugged rock there is
 Set back a league from thine own palace fair;
 There leave the maid, that she may wait the kiss
 Of the fell monster that doth harbour there:
 This is the mate for whom her yellow hair
 And tender limbs have been so fashioned,
 This is the pillow for her lovely head.

"'And if thou sparest now to do this thing,
 I will destroy thee and thy land also,
 And of dead corpses shalt thou be the king,
 And stumbling through the dark land shalt thou go,
 Howling for second death to end thy woe;
 Live therefore as thou mayst and do my will,
 And be a king that men may envy still.'"
 [Footnote: From William Morris's Earthly Paradise.]

Imagine the grief of the loving father at these words! Had the oracle but threatened punishment
to him, he would have endured any torture before subjecting his child to such a fate; but as
a king, he dared not bring ruin on all his people, who trusted him. Psyche, herself, numb with
horror, commanded quietly that preparations be made for the procession which should accompany
her to the rock described by the oracle. Some days later, this procession set out, the priests
in their white robes preceding Psyche, who, in mourning garments, with bowed head and clasped
hands, walked between her father and mother. Her parents bewailed their fate and clung to her,
but she said only, "It is the will of the gods, and therefore must be."

At last the mountain top was reached, the last heart-breaking farewells were said, and the
procession wound back toward the city, leaving Psyche alone. All the horror of her fate burst
upon her as she stood on the bleak rock, and she raised her hands to heaven and cried. Suddenly,
however, it seemed to her that the breeze which blew past her murmured in her ear "Do not fear";
and certainly she felt herself being lifted gently and carried over mountain and valley and
sea. At last, she was placed on a grassy bank, in a pleasant, flower-bright valley, and here
she fell asleep, feeling quite safe after all her fears.

On awaking, she strolled about the lovely garden in which she found herself, wondering to see
no one, though on all sides there were signs of work and care and thought. At the door of a
palace, more gorgeous than any she had ever seen before, she paused, but soft voices called
"Enter, beautiful maiden," and gentle hands, which she saw not, drew her within the door. While
she gazed in wonder at the wrought golden pillars, the ivory and gold furnishings, the mosaic
of precious stones which formed the floor, a voice said, close beside her:

"Sovereign lady, let not fear oppress thee:
 All is thine on which thine eye doth rest.
 We, whose voices greet thee, are thy servants--
 Thou art mistress here, not passing guest.
 In thy chamber, bed of down awaits thee;
 Perfumed baths our skilled hands prepare."

As she had slept in the garden, Psyche felt no need of rest, but passed at once to the refreshment
of the bath. Then, for she had eaten nothing since the oracle's decree, she seated herself
at the table and ate of the delicious dishes which the invisible hands presented to her. Swiftly
the remaining hours of daylight passed, while the amazed and enraptured Psyche wandered about
the palace and listened to the exquisite music which invisible performers furnished for her.

With the coming of the darkness, the voice which had spoken to her at her entrance said, "Our
master comes!" And shortly after, he began to speak to her himself. At the first tones of his
gentle, loving voice, Psyche forgot her fears, forgot the oracle; and when her unseen lover
said, "Canst thou love me somewhat in return for all the love I give thee?" she answered, "Willingly!"

"Thou mayest have all the joys which earth and heaven afford; one thing only I ask of thee
in return. I shall come to thee with the darkness, and never shalt thou try to see my face."

Psyche promised, and she kept her promise faithfully for a long time, though her longing to
see the husband who was so good to her was great. During the hours when he was with her, she
was perfectly happy, but through the long days, when she had nothing but the voices that had
greeted her on her arrival, and her own thoughts for company, she longed and longed to see
her sisters, and to send to her parents news of her happiness. One night when her husband came,
she begged of him that he would allow her sisters to visit her.

"Art thou not happy with me, Pysche?" he asked sorrowfully. "Do I not fill thy heart as thou
fillest mine?"

"I am happier with thee than ever happy girl was with seen lover," replied Psyche, "but my
parents and my sisters are yet in sorrow over my fate, and my heart tells me it is selfishness
for me to be so happy while they grieve for me."

At last, her husband gave a reluctant consent to her request, and on the very next day, the
West Wind, [Footnote: The winds, four in number, were the sons of Aeolus, god of the storm
and of winds. Their names were Boreas, the north wind; Zephyrus, the west wind; Auster, the
south wind, and Eurus, the east wind.] who had brought Psyche to this retreat, brought her
two sisters and set them down at her door. Joyfully Psyche led them in, and she commanded her
invisible servants to serve them with the finest foods and entertain them with the most exquisite
music. After the meal was over, the happy girl conducted them about the palace and pointed
out to them all its treasures. She was not proud or boastful; she only wanted to show them
how kind and thoughtful her husband was. But the sights that met their eyes filled them with
envy, and when Psyche left the room to make some further plans for their comfort, one said
to the other:

"Is it not unendurable that this girl, who was left unsought in our father's house for years,
should be living in such splendor? I shall hate the sight of my own palace when I return."

"Yes," sighed the other, "all the polished oaken furnishings of which I was so proud will be
worthless in my eyes after seeing Psyche's magnificent ivory and gold. And she is our younger
sister!"

"Do you notice," said the elder sister, "that while she says much about what her husband does
for her, she says nothing at all about him? But wait--here she comes--say nothing, and I will
question her."

Happy, innocent Psyche, never doubting that her sisters were as pleased at her good fortune
as she would have been at theirs, came to lead them to another room, but her sister detained her.

"Stay," she said, "we have something to ask of you. About all the splendors of your palace
you have talked; you have told us at great length about your husband's goodness to you. But
not a word about his looks or his age or his occupation have you said. See, sister! She blushes!
Shy girl, she has been unwilling to speak of him until we spoke first."

"No doubt," said the other sister, "she has saved until the last her description of him, since
he is the best part of her life here."

Poor Psyche knew not what to say. How should she confess that, after these many months, she
had never seen her husband; that she knew not at all what manner of man he was?

"Why, he's a young man," she replied hesitatingly, "a very young man, and he spends much of
his time hunting on the mountains."

"Has he blue eyes or brown?" asked the elder sister.

"I--why--O, blue eyes," said Psyche.

"And his hair," inquired the second sister, "is it straight or curling, black or fair?"

"It's--it's straight and--and brown," faltered poor Psyche, who had never before uttered a lie.

"Now, see here, my child," said the elder sister, "I can tell from your answers that you've
never seen this precious husband of yours. Is not that the case?"

Psyche nodded, the tears running down her cheeks.

"But he's so good to me," she whispered. "And I promised I wouldn't try to see him."

"Good to you! You deluded innocent, of course he's good to you! What did the oracle say? It's
plain to be seen that the prophecy has come true and that you are wedded to some fearful monster,
who is kind to you now that he may kill and devour you by-and-by."

At length, for they were older than Psyche, and she had always been accustomed to taking their
advice, they convinced her that her only safety lay in discovering at once what sort of a monster
had her in its possession.

"Now mind," they counseled her, "this very night conceal a lamp and a dagger where you can
reach them easily, and as soon as he is asleep, steal upon him. You shall see what you shall
see. And if he's the distorted monster we think him, plunge the knife into his heart."

Poor, timid Psyche! Left to herself, she scarce knew what to do. She kindled the lamp, then
extinguished it, ashamed of her lack of faith in her kind husband.

But when she heard him coming, she again hastily lighted the lamp and hid it, with a sharp
dagger, behind a tapestry. When her husband approached her she pretended weariness; she knew
that if she allowed him to talk with her, her fears would melt away.

"My visit with my sisters has tired me. Let me rest," she pleaded, and her husband, always
ready to humor any wish of hers, did not try to coax her into conversation. He threw himself
upon the couch, and when his regular breathing told her that he really slept, Psyche arose
tremblingly, took up her lamp and dagger and stole to his side. Lifting her lamp high she looked
upon--the very god of Love, himself!

                                       "I stood
 Long time uncertain, and at length turned round
 And gazed upon my love. He lay asleep,
 And ah, how fair he was! The flickering light
 Fell on the fairest of the gods, stretched out
 In happy slumber. Looking on his locks
 Of gold, and faultless face and smile, and limbs
 Made perfect, a great joy and trembling took me
 Who was most blest of women, and in awe
 And fear I stooped to kiss him. One warm drop
 From the full lamp within my trembling hand,
 Fell on his shoulder."
 [Footnote: From Epic of Hades by Lewis Morris]

Cupid awoke, looked with startled eyes at his wife, and reading aright the story of the lamp
and the dagger, spread his wings and flew through the open window, saying sadly:

"Farewell! There is no love except with Faith, And thine is dead! Farewell! I come no more!"

Weeping and calling out to her husband, Psyche ran out of doors into the black, stormy night.
To the edge of the garden she ran, and then, in her grief and terror she swooned. When she
awakened, the palace and garden had vanished, but Psyche cared little for that; henceforth
her only care was to seek her husband.

Encountering on her wanderings the kindly Ceres, Psyche implored her help; but Ceres could
give her no aid except advice.

"The gods must stand by each other," she said. "If Venus is angered at thee, I can give thee
no aid. This, though, thou mayst do: Go to Venus, submit thyself unto her, and perhaps thou
mayst win her favor."

At the temple of Venus, Psyche encountered that goddess, the cause of all her misfortunes;
and right glad was Venus to have the once proud maiden for her humble slave.

"Many are the tasks thou canst perform for me," said the disdainful goddess, "if them art not
as stupid as thou art ugly. Here is a simple little task to begin upon."

She led Psyche to the storehouse of the temple and pointed out to her a great heap of grain--wheat,
barley, poppy seeds, beans and millet.

"When I return at evening," she commanded, "have each sort of grain in a heap by itself."

The luckless girl knew that the work could not be accomplished in the time allowed her, and
she made, therefore, no attempt to begin it. As she sat with her head in her hands, she heard
a faint sound, as if the grain were being stirred about, and looking up, she saw that the ants
had come in vast numbers and were sorting it out. Fascinated, she watched them, until long
before evening the task was done.

"Thou couldst never have done this by thyself, lazy one," exclaimed Venus, on her return. "To-morrow
I will see whether thou art indeed able to do anything. Beyond the river which flows past my
temple are golden-fleeced sheep, roaming without a shepherd. Do thou bring to me a portion
of their fleece."

In the morning Psyche set out, utterly discouraged, but afraid to linger in the temple of the
angry goddess. When she approached the sheep, she trembled, for they were numerous, and very
fierce. As she stood concealed in the rushes by the river bank, the murmuring reeds said to her:

"Wait! At noon the sheep will seek the shade. Then mayst thou gather of their fleece from the
bushes under which they have ranged,"

With a thankful heart Psyche followed the directions, and at evening returned unharmed with
the golden wool, which she presented to Venus. Again the goddess upbraided her.

"Well I know that of thine own self thou couldst never have done this," she cried wrathfully;
nor did she stop to reflect that the fact that Psyche thus received aid, unasked, in her difficulties,
was a proof that all things on earth loved and pitied her, Instead, she gave her yet another task.

"Take this casket; go with it to the realms of the dead, and ask of Proserpina that she loan
me a little of her beauty. I have worried about the undutiful conduct of my son until I have
grown thin and pale, and I would look my best at the assembly of the gods to-morrow night."

This was the most hopeless task of all. To go to the realms of the dead--what did it mean but
that she must die?

"As well soon as late," sighed the poor girl; and she climbed to the top of a high tower, meaning
to cast herself down. But even here, where no living thing seemed to be, a voice came to her ears.

"Desist, rash girl, from thy plan! Thou art not yet to die. If thou wilt observe carefully
all the directions which I shall give thee, thou shalt fulfill thy cruel mistress's stern behest.
From a cave in yonder hill there leads a path, straight into the earth. No man has ever trodden
it. Along this shalt thou journey, bearing in thy hand sops for the three-headed dog of Pluto,
and money for the grim ferryman, Charon. It is written that thou shalt succeed; only, thou
shalt not open the box which hides the beauty of Proserpina."

The voice ceased, and Psyche climbed from her tower and set out on the arduous journey. Through
long, long hours she toiled over the rough path in utter darkness. What was on either side
of her, she knew not; no sound came to her except the far-off drip of water slipping through
the rocks. At length, when she was ready to drop with fatigue and fear, a faint light appeared
before her. Somewhat cheered, she walked on, and stepping from the vast tunnel in which she
had been journeying, she found herself on the bank of a river. It was not such a river as she
had seen gliding through the green fields and glittering over the rocks of her native country;
it was a sluggish, inky-black stream, [Footnote: There were several great rivers in Pluto's
realm. Phlegethon, a river of fire, separated Tartarus, the abode of the wicked, from the rest
of Hades, while Cocytus, a salty river, was composed of the tears of the dwellers in Tartarus.
But the most famous of the rivers were the Styx, by which the gods swore; the Lethe, a draught
from which made one forget all that had ever happened and begin life anew; and the Acheron,
a black, cold stream, over which the spirits of the dead had to be ferried before they could
enter Pluto's realm. The ferryman was Charon; and since he would row no one over the river
unless he were paid for it, the ancients placed under the tongue of the dead a small coin wherewith
the fare might be paid.] which slid on without ever a ripple. A strange, gray light filled
all the place, and showed to her a ferryboat, moored to the shore, and a grim-looking, old,
long-bearded ferryman.

"Will you take me over the river?" asked Psyche, in a faint voice. The ferryman gave her no
answer, but she ventured to step upon his craft, upon which he instantly shoved off. Without
a sound they moved across the river, and when Psyche stepped off on the farther shore, she
knew she was really in Hades, the dreadful realm of Pluto. Tossing back onto the boat the coin
she had brought, she went on and on, until she came to a great gloomy tower of black marble.
On the threshold stood Pluto's dog, three-headed Cerberus, and fiercely he barked at the poor
frightened girl. However, the sop which she threw to him quieted him, and she passed on into
the palace. There, on their black thrones, sat Pluto and Proserpina, king and queen of this
hopeless realm.

"Great queen," said Psyche, bowing humbly before Proserpina's throne, "my mistress has sent
me to borrow for her a little of thy beauty."

"Willingly will I lend it," said Proserpina, kindly, "not to please thy proud mistress, but
to help thee, poor girl." And taking the little casket which Psyche had brought with her, she
breathed into it, closed it hurriedly, and handed it to the waiting girl.

Gladly did Psyche leave this gloomy abode and set out on her homeward journey. The black path
seemed not so long nor so frightful when she knew she was moving toward the light of day; and
O, how happy she was when she saw the sunlight glimmering ahead of her! Out once more in the
free light and fresh air, she sat down for a time to rest, and a great curiosity came upon
her to know what the little casket in her hand contained.

"My beauty must have been growing less through these weeks of trouble and fright," she thought,
"and perhaps if my husband saw me now he would not love me. It can do no harm for me to borrow
just a little of the contents of this box."

She raised the lid, but from the box there came, with a rushing sound, the spirit of sleep.
This spirit seized upon Psyche and laid her by the roadside in a sleep resembling death, and
here she might have slept for all time, had not Cupid, wandering by, spied her. Bending over
her, he kissed her; then he wrestled with the spirit of sleep until he had forced it to release
Psyche, and to enter again the little casket from which her curiosity had loosed it.

"Psyche," he said, turning to his wife, who lay speechless with happiness at beholding him
again, "once through thy curiosity I was lost to thee; this time thou wast almost lost to me.
Never again must I leave thee; never must thou be absent from my sight."

Together, then, they hastened to Olympus, the dwelling of the gods: together they bowed before
Jupiter's throne. The king of the gods, looking upon Psyche and seeing that she was beautiful
as a goddess, listened favorably to their petition, and, calling for a cup of ambrosia, presented
it to her and said:

"Drink, Psyche; so shalt thou become immortal, and fit wife for a god."

Venus, touched by her son's happiness, forgave his bride, and the young lovers, who had gone
through so many griefs and hardships, lived happily forever in the beautiful palace presented
to them by the king of the gods.

The myth of Cupid and Psyche is of much later date than most of the other myths; in fact, it
is met with first in a writer of the second century of the Christian era. Many of the myths
are material--that is, they explain physical happenings, such as the rising of the sun, the
coming of winter, or the flashing of the lightning; but the myth of Cupid and Psyche has nothing
to do with the forces of nature--it is wholly spiritual in its application.

Cupid is Love, while Psyche represents the soul; and thus the story, in its descriptions of
Psyche's sufferings, shows how the soul, loved by heaven, and really loving heaven, is robbed
of its joy through its own folly. Only by striving and suffering, the story tells us, is the
soul purified and made fit for joy everlasting.

Psyche's descent into the regions of the dead signifies that it is only after death that the
soul realizes its true happiness. Even if we did not know just when this myth originated, we
might guess from this teaching that the myth was a late one, for the earliest Greeks and Romans
did not believe in a real happiness after death. They believed in existence after death, but
it was a very shadowy existence, with the most negative sort of pleasures. Later, the Romans,
even before they accepted Christianity, had their beliefs more or less modified by their contact
with Christians.

We may sum this myth up by saying that it is an allegory of

    "the soul of man, the deathless soul,
     Defeated, struggling, purified and blest."

As you read this story of Cupid and Psyche, some incidents in it doubtless seemed familiar
to you; you had come across them before in various fairy tales. Thus the story of Psyche's
arrival at the palace and of the way in which she was waited upon by invisible beings will
remind you of certain parts of Beauty and the Beast, while the labors set for Psyche by Venus
will recall The Three Tasks. Now, while some of the fairy stories are undoubtedly borrowed
from this old, old tale, it is a singular fact that there is an old Norse story which contains
some of the same incidents, and yet could not have been taken from this.

One of the most interesting things about the study of mythology is the attempt to discover
how widely separate nations came to have similar stories. Many learned men have worked much
over this question, and some of them say that, having the same facts to explain, or the same
things to express in allegory, the various ancient peoples naturally hit upon the same explanations.
Others believe that this similarity of myths shows that far, far back, the ancestors of these
different people must have had intercourse with each other. Probably there is some truth in
both theories, though most authorities believe that the former theory covers more cases than
does the latter.

We have said that this story is an allegory; do you understand just what an allegory is? There
are different types of allegories; in some, each person that appears represents some quality
or some influence; in others, a general truth is set forth, but there is no attempt to make
every minor character fill a place in the allegory. To which type do you think the story of
Cupid and Psyche belongs? Do Psyche's sisters, for instance, represent anything?

What was the real fault of Psyche--the folly that cost her her happiness?

The word "Psyche" means in Greek, the SOUL; it is also the word for BUTTERFLY. Can you see
any reason why the one name should be used for both?

There are still some very, very old pictures which show a man with a butterfly just fluttering
out from between his lips. Remembering that the butterfly was the emblem of the soul, can you
imagine what the artists meant to show by this?

THE PIED PIPER OF HAMELIN

By ROBERT BROWNING

Hamelin Town's in Brunswick,
  By famous Hanover City;
  The river Weser, deep and wide,
  Washes its wall on the southern side;
  A pleasanter spot you never spied;
But when begins my ditty,
  Almost five hundred years ago,
  To see the townsfolk suffer so
From vermin was a pity.

  Rats!
They fought the dogs, and killed the cats,
  And bit the babies in the cradles,
And ate the cheeses out of the vats,
  And licked the soup from the cooks' own ladles,
Split open the kegs of salted sprats.
Made nests inside men's Sunday hats,
And even spoiled the women's chats,
  By drowning their speaking
  With shrieking and squeaking
In fifty different sharps and flats.

