ROUGHING IT

                             by Mark Twain

                                 1880

                                Part 7.

CHAPTER LXI.

One of my comrades there--another of those victims of eighteen years of unrequited toil and
blighted hopes--was one of the gentlest spirits that ever bore its patient cross in a weary
exile: grave and simple Dick Baker, pocket-miner of Dead-House Gulch.--He was forty-six, gray
as a rat, earnest, thoughtful, slenderly educated, slouchily dressed and clay-soiled, but his
heart was finer metal than any gold his shovel ever brought to light--than any, indeed, that
ever was mined or minted.

Whenever he was out of luck and a little down-hearted, he would fall to mourning over the loss
of a wonderful cat he used to own (for where women and children are not, men of kindly impulses
take up with pets, for they must love something).  And he always spoke of the strange sagacity
of that cat with the air of a man who believed in his secret heart that there was something
human about it--may be even supernatural.

I heard him talking about this animal once.  He said:

"Gentlemen, I used to have a cat here, by the name of Tom Quartz, which you'd a took an interest
in I reckon--most any body would.  I had him here eight year--and he was the remarkablest cat
I ever see.  He was a large gray one of the Tom specie, an' he had more hard, natchral sense
than any man in this camp--'n' a power of dignity--he wouldn't let the Gov'ner of Californy
be familiar with him.  He never ketched a rat in his life--'peared to be above it.  He never
cared for nothing but mining. He knowed more about mining, that cat did, than any man I ever,
ever see. You couldn't tell him noth'n 'bout placer diggin's--'n' as for pocket mining, why
he was just born for it.

"He would dig out after me an' Jim when we went over the hills prospect'n', and he would trot
along behind us for as much as five mile, if we went so fur.  An' he had the best judgment
about mining ground--why you never see anything like it.  When we went to work, he'd scatter
a glance around, 'n' if he didn't think much of the indications, he would give a look as much
as to say, 'Well, I'll have to get you to excuse me,' 'n' without another word he'd hyste his
nose into the air 'n' shove for home.  But if the ground suited him, he would lay low 'n' keep
dark till the first pan was washed, 'n' then he would sidle up 'n' take a look, an' if there
was about six or seven grains of gold he was satisfied--he didn't want no better prospect 'n'
that--'n' then he would lay down on our coats and snore like a steamboat till we'd struck the
pocket, an' then get up 'n' superintend.  He was nearly lightnin' on superintending.

"Well, bye an' bye, up comes this yer quartz excitement.  Every body was into it--every body
was pick'n' 'n' blast'n' instead of shovelin' dirt on the hill side--every body was put'n'
down a shaft instead of scrapin' the surface.  Noth'n' would do Jim, but we must tackle the
ledges, too, 'n' so we did.  We commenced put'n' down a shaft, 'n' Tom Quartz he begin to wonder
what in the Dickens it was all about.  He hadn't ever seen any mining like that before, 'n'
he was all upset, as you may say--he couldn't come to a right understanding of it no way--it
was too many for him.  He was down on it, too, you bet you--he was down on it powerful --'n'
always appeared to consider it the cussedest foolishness out.  But that cat, you know, was
always agin new fangled arrangements--somehow he never could abide'em.  You know how it is
with old habits.  But by an' by Tom Quartz begin to git sort of reconciled a little, though
he never could altogether understand that eternal sinkin' of a shaft an' never pannin' out
any thing.  At last he got to comin' down in the shaft, hisself, to try to cipher it out. 
An' when he'd git the blues, 'n' feel kind o'scruffy, 'n' aggravated 'n' disgusted--knowin'
as he did, that the bills was runnin' up all the time an' we warn't makin' a cent--he would
curl up on a gunny sack in the corner an' go to sleep.  Well, one day when the shaft was down
about eight foot, the rock got so hard that we had to put in a blast--the first blast'n' we'd
ever done since Tom Quartz was born.  An' then we lit the fuse 'n' clumb out 'n' got off 'bout
fifty yards--'n' forgot 'n' left Tom Quartz sound asleep on the gunny sack.

"In 'bout a minute we seen a puff of smoke bust up out of the hole, 'n' then everything let
go with an awful crash, 'n' about four million ton of rocks 'n' dirt 'n' smoke 'n; splinters
shot up 'bout a mile an' a half into the air, an' by George, right in the dead centre of it
was old Tom Quartz a goin' end over end, an' a snortin' an' a sneez'n', an' a clawin' an' a
reachin' for things like all possessed.  But it warn't no use, you know, it warn't no use.
An' that was the last we see of him for about two minutes 'n' a half, an' then all of a sudden
it begin to rain rocks and rubbage, an' directly he come down ker-whop about ten foot off f'm
where we stood Well, I reckon he was p'raps the orneriest lookin' beast you ever see.  One
ear was sot back on his neck, 'n' his tail was stove up, 'n' his eye-winkers was swinged off,
'n' he was all blacked up with powder an' smoke, an' all sloppy with mud 'n' slush f'm one
end to the other.

"Well sir, it warn't no use to try to apologize--we couldn't say a word. He took a sort of
a disgusted look at hisself, 'n' then he looked at us --an' it was just exactly the same as
if he had said--'Gents, may be you think it's smart to take advantage of a cat that 'ain't
had no experience of quartz minin', but I think different'--an' then he turned on his heel
'n' marched off home without ever saying another word.

"That was jest his style.  An' may be you won't believe it, but after that you never see a
cat so prejudiced agin quartz mining as what he was. An' by an' bye when he did get to goin'
down in the shaft agin, you'd 'a been astonished at his sagacity.  The minute we'd tetch off
a blast 'n' the fuse'd begin to sizzle, he'd give a look as much as to say: 'Well, I'll have
to git you to excuse me,' an' it was surpris'n' the way he'd shin out of that hole 'n' go f'r
a tree.  Sagacity?  It ain't no name for it.  'Twas inspiration!"

I said, "Well, Mr. Baker, his prejudice against quartz-mining was remarkable, considering how
he came by it.  Couldn't you ever cure him of it?"

"Cure him!  No!  When Tom Quartz was sot once, he was always sot--and you might a blowed him
up as much as three million times 'n' you'd never a broken him of his cussed prejudice agin
quartz mining."

The affection and the pride that lit up Baker's face when he delivered this tribute to the
firmness of his humble friend of other days, will always be a vivid memory with me.

At the end of two months we had never "struck" a pocket.  We had panned up and down the hillsides
till they looked plowed like a field; we could have put in a crop of grain, then, but there
would have been no way to get it to market.  We got many good "prospects," but when the gold
gave out in the pan and we dug down, hoping and longing, we found only emptiness--the pocket
that should have been there was as barren as our own.--At last we shouldered our pans and shovels
and struck out over the hills to try new localities.  We prospected around Angel's Camp, in
Calaveras county, during three weeks, but had no success.  Then we wandered on foot among the
mountains, sleeping under the trees at night, for the weather was mild, but still we remained
as centless as the last rose of summer.  That is a poor joke, but it is in pathetic harmony
with the circumstances, since we were so poor ourselves.  In accordance with the custom of
the country, our door had always stood open and our board welcome to tramping miners--they
drifted along nearly every day, dumped their paust shovels by the threshold and took "pot luck"
with us--and now on our own tramp we never found cold hospitality.

Our wanderings were wide and in many directions; and now I could give the reader a vivid description
of the Big Trees and the marvels of the Yo Semite--but what has this reader done to me that
I should persecute him? I will deliver him into the hands of less conscientious tourists and
take his blessing.  Let me be charitable, though I fail in all virtues else.

Note: Some of the phrases in the above are mining technicalities, purely, and may be a little
obscure to the general reader.  In "placer diggings" the gold is scattered all through the
surface dirt; in "pocket" diggings it is concentrated in one little spot; in "quartz" the gold
is in a solid, continuous vein of rock, enclosed between distinct walls of some other kind
of stone--and this is the most laborious and expensive of all the different kinds of mining.
"Prospecting" is hunting for a "placer"; "indications" are signs of its presence; "panning
out" refers to the washing process by which the grains of gold are separated from the dirt;
a "prospect" is what one finds in the first panful of dirt--and its value determines whether
it is a good or a bad prospect, and whether it is worth while to tarry there or seek further.

CHAPTER LXII.

After a three months' absence, I found myself in San Francisco again, without a cent.  When
my credit was about exhausted, (for I had become too mean and lazy, now, to work on a morning
paper, and there were no vacancies on the evening journals,) I was created San Francisco correspondent
of the Enterprise, and at the end of five months I was out of debt, but my interest in my work
was gone; for my correspondence being a daily one, without rest or respite, I got unspeakably
tired of it. I wanted another change.  The vagabond instinct was strong upon me. Fortune favored
and I got a new berth and a delightful one.  It was to go down to the Sandwich Islands and
write some letters for the Sacramento Union, an excellent journal and liberal with employees.

We sailed in the propeller Ajax, in the middle of winter.  The almanac called it winter, distinctly
enough, but the weather was a compromise between spring and summer.  Six days out of port,
it became summer altogether.  We had some thirty passengers; among them a cheerful soul by
the name of Williams, and three sea-worn old whaleship captains going down to join their vessels.
These latter played euchre in the smoking room day and night, drank astonishing quantities
of raw whisky without being in the least affected by it, and were the happiest people I think
I ever saw.  And then there was "the old Admiral--"  a retired whaleman. He was a roaring,
terrific combination of wind and lightning and thunder, and earnest, whole-souled profanity.
But nevertheless he was tender-hearted as a girl.  He was a raving, deafening, devastating
typhoon, laying waste the cowering seas but with an unvexed refuge in the centre where all
comers were safe and at rest.  Nobody could know the "Admiral" without liking him; and in a
sudden and dire emergency I think no friend of his would know which to choose--to be cursed
by him or prayed for by a less efficient person.

His Title of "Admiral" was more strictly "official" than any ever worn by a naval officer before
or since, perhaps--for it was the voluntary offering of a whole nation, and came direct from
the people themselves without any intermediate red tape--the people of the Sandwich Islands.
It was a title that came to him freighted with affection, and honor, and appreciation of his
unpretending merit.  And in testimony of the genuineness of the title it was publicly ordained
that an exclusive flag should be devised for him and used solely to welcome his coming and
wave him God-speed in his going.  From that time forth, whenever his ship was signaled in the
offing, or he catted his anchor and stood out to sea, that ensign streamed from the royal halliards
on the parliament house and the nation lifted their hats to it with spontaneous accord.

Yet he had never fired a gun or fought a battle in his life.  When I knew him on board the
Ajax, he was seventy-two years old and had plowed the salt water sixty-one of them.  For sixteen
years he had gone in and out of the harbor of Honolulu in command of a whaleship, and for sixteen
more had been captain of a San Francisco and Sandwich Island passenger packet and had never
had an accident or lost a vessel.  The simple natives knew him for a friend who never failed
them, and regarded him as children regard a father.  It was a dangerous thing to oppress them
when the roaring Admiral was around.

Two years before I knew the Admiral, he had retired from the sea on a competence, and had sworn
a colossal nine-jointed oath that he would "never go within smelling distance of the salt water
again as long as he lived."  And he had conscientiously kept it.  That is to say, he considered
he had kept it, and it would have been more than dangerous to suggest to him, even in the gentlest
way, that making eleven long sea voyages, as a passenger, during the two years that had transpired
since he "retired," was only keeping the general spirit of it and not the strict letter.

The Admiral knew only one narrow line of conduct to pursue in any and all cases where there
was a fight, and that was to shoulder his way straight in without an inquiry as to the rights
or the merits of it, and take the part of the weaker side.--And this was the reason why he
was always sure to be present at the trial of any universally execrated criminal to oppress
and intimidate the jury with a vindictive pantomime of what he would do to them if he ever
caught them out of the box.  And this was why harried cats and outlawed dogs that knew him
confidently took sanctuary under his chair in time of trouble.  In the beginning he was the
most frantic and bloodthirsty Union man that drew breath in the shadow of the Flag; but the
instant the Southerners began to go down before the sweep of the Northern armies, he ran up
the Confederate colors and from that time till the end was a rampant and inexorable secessionist.

He hated intemperance with a more uncompromising animosity than any individual I have ever
met, of either sex; and he was never tired of storming against it and beseeching friends and
strangers alike to be wary and drink with moderation.  And yet if any creature had been guileless
enough to intimate that his absorbing nine gallons of "straight" whiskey during our voyage
was any fraction short of rigid or inflexible abstemiousness, in that self-same moment the
old man would have spun him to the uttermost parts of the earth in the whirlwind of his wrath.
Mind, I am not saying his whisky ever affected his head or his legs, for it did not, in even
the slightest degree.  He was a capacious container, but he did not hold enough for that. 
He took a level tumblerful of whisky every morning before he put his clothes on--"to sweeten
his bilgewater," he said.--He took another after he got the most of his clothes on, "to settle
his mind and give him his bearings."  He then shaved, and put on a clean shirt; after which
he recited the Lord's Prayer in a fervent, thundering bass that shook the ship to her kelson
and suspended all conversation in the main cabin.  Then, at this stage, being invariably "by
the head," or "by the stern," or "listed to port or starboard," he took one more to "put him
on an even keel so that he would mind his hellum and not miss stays and go about, every time
he came up in the wind."--And now, his state-room door swung open and the sun of his benignant
face beamed redly out upon men and women and children, and he roared his "Shipmets a'hoy!"
in a way that was calculated to wake the dead and precipitate the final resurrection; and forth
he strode, a picture to look at and a presence to enforce attention.  Stalwart and portly;
not a gray hair; broadbrimmed slouch hat; semi-sailor toggery of blue navy flannel--roomy and
ample; a stately expanse of shirt-front and a liberal amount of black silk neck-cloth tied
with a sailor knot; large chain and imposing seals impending from his fob; awe-inspiring feet,
and "a hand like the hand of Providence," as his whaling brethren expressed it; wrist-bands
and sleeves pushed back half way to the elbow, out of respect for the warm weather, and exposing
hairy arms, gaudy with red and blue anchors, ships, and goddesses of liberty tattooed in India
ink. But these details were only secondary matters--his face was the lodestone that chained
the eye.  It was a sultry disk, glowing determinedly out through a weather beaten mask of mahogany,
and studded with warts, seamed with scars, "blazed" all over with unfailing fresh slips of
the razor; and with cheery eyes, under shaggy brows, contemplating the world from over the
back of a gnarled crag of a nose that loomed vast and lonely out of the undulating immensity
that spread away from its foundations. At his heels frisked the darling of his bachelor estate,
his terrier "Fan," a creature no larger than a squirrel.  The main part of his daily life was
occupied in looking after "Fan," in a motherly way, and doctoring her for a hundred ailments
which existed only in his imagination.

The Admiral seldom read newspapers; and when he did he never believed anything they said. 
He read nothing, and believed in nothing, but "The Old Guard," a secession periodical published
in New York.  He carried a dozen copies of it with him, always, and referred to them for all
required information.  If it was not there, he supplied it himself, out of a bountiful fancy,
inventing history, names, dates, and every thing else necessary to make his point good in an
argument.  Consequently he was a formidable antagonist in a dispute.  Whenever he swung clear
of the record and began to create history, the enemy was helpless and had to surrender.  Indeed,
the enemy could not keep from betraying some little spark of indignation at his manufactured
history--and when it came to indignation, that was the Admiral's very "best hold."  He was
always ready for a political argument, and if nobody started one he would do it himself.  With
his third retort his temper would begin to rise, and within five minutes he would be blowing
a gale, and within fifteen his smoking-room audience would be utterly stormed away and the
old man left solitary and alone, banging the table with his fist, kicking the chairs, and roaring
a hurricane of profanity.  It got so, after a while, that whenever the Admiral approached,
with politics in his eye, the passengers would drop out with quiet accord, afraid to meet him;
and he would camp on a deserted field.

But he found his match at last, and before a full company.  At one time or another, everybody
had entered the lists against him and been routed, except the quiet passenger Williams.  He
had never been able to get an expression of opinion out of him on politics.  But now, just
as the Admiral drew near the door and the company were about to slip out, Williams said:

"Admiral, are you certain about that circumstance concerning the clergymen you mentioned the
other day?"--referring to a piece of the Admiral's manufactured history.

Every one was amazed at the man's rashness.  The idea of deliberately inviting annihilation
was a thing incomprehensible.  The retreat came to a halt; then everybody sat down again wondering,
to await the upshot of it.  The Admiral himself was as surprised as any one.  He paused in
the door, with his red handkerchief half raised to his sweating face, and contemplated the
daring reptile in the corner.

"Certain of it?  Am I certain of it?  Do you think I've been lying about it?  What do you take
me for?  Anybody that don't know that circumstance, don't know anything; a child ought to know
it.  Read up your history! Read it up-----, and don't come asking a man if he's certain about
a bit of ABC stuff that the very southern niggers know all about."

Here the Admiral's fires began to wax hot, the atmosphere thickened, the coming earthquake
rumbled, he began to thunder and lighten.  Within three minutes his volcano was in full irruption
and he was discharging flames and ashes of indignation, belching black volumes of foul history
aloft, and vomiting red-hot torrents of profanity from his crater.  Meantime Williams sat silent,
and apparently deeply and earnestly interested in what the old man was saying.  By and by,
when the lull came, he said in the most deferential way, and with the gratified air of a man
who has had a mystery cleared up which had been puzzling him uncomfortably:

"Now I understand it.  I always thought I knew that piece of history well enough, but was still
afraid to trust it, because there was not that convincing particularity about it that one likes
to have in history; but when you mentioned every name, the other day, and every date, and every
little circumstance, in their just order and sequence, I said to myself, this sounds something
like--this is history--this is putting it in a shape that gives a man confidence; and I said
to myself afterward, I will just ask the Admiral if he is perfectly certain about the details,
and if he is I will come out and thank him for clearing this matter up for me. And that is
what I want to do now--for until you set that matter right it was nothing but just a confusion
in my mind, without head or tail to it."

Nobody ever saw the Admiral look so mollified before, and so pleased. Nobody had ever received
his bogus history as gospel before; its genuineness had always been called in question either
by words or looks; but here was a man that not only swallowed it all down, but was grateful
for the dose.  He was taken a back; he hardly knew what to say; even his profanity failed him.
Now, Williams continued, modestly and earnestly:

