[Footnote 10: In a barren record of facts, such as this chapter is meant to be, I avoid as
far as possible deductions and reflections apart from my immediate subject; but it is impossible
to pursue an investigation of this character without being deeply interested both in the past
history and present life of the people. I cannot help saying that in one day's walk from Malahide
to Balbriggan I learnt far more of the Irish peasantry, the Irish character, and the Irish
"problem" than I had been able to acquire in all my reading, supported by not a little experience
in the capital and great towns of Ireland. The village streets, the cabins, the schools, the
agriculture and the land, the farmer and the landlord, the poverty and the hospitality of the
people, were all to be studied at first hand; and there were churches by the way at Swords
and Rush which the archaeologist will seek in vain to match in any other country. The Bound
Tower (Celtic no doubt) at the former place, and the battlemented fortalice, which is more
like a castle than a church, at Rush, are both worth a special visit.]

The cross and "T.L." scratched on one of the stones appears to be recent work, and the wonderful
preservation of the stone to Lawrence Paine, of 1686, can only be accounted for by the supposition
that it has long lain buried, and been lately restored to the light. The stone is of the same
perishable kind as the others, and it is certain that it could not have survived exposure to
the atmosphere, as its date would imply, for upwards of 200 years. It may even be found that
the weather has chipped off the edges of the stones which now appear so jagged, shapeless,
and grotesque; but, from recent evidences gathered elsewhere, it is but too probable that these
rude pillars have been, and still are, set up as they come from the quarry, without dressing
and free from any carving or attention whatever.

Many instances may be found in which slabs of stone, or even slate, have been erected quite
recently, the edges untrimmed, and the name of the deceased simply painted upon them more or
less inartistically, as in the sketch from Drogheda (Fig. 89). Such crude examples are the
more remarkable in a busy and thriving port like Drogheda, and amid many handsome monuments,
than among the peasantry of the villages; and it is easy to imagine that if nothing more durable
than paint has been employed to immortalize the dead in past times all traces must have speedily
disappeared. The illustrations from Drogheda give the whole inscription in each case, neither
having date nor age, nor any other particular beyond the name. The memorial on the left hand
is of slate--the other two of freestone; and the slate in the northern parts of Ireland is
the preferable of the two materials.

There are at Bangor, ten miles west of Belfast, many such slate records, which have endured
for more than a century, and are still in excellent preservation. One which attracted my especial
notice at Bangor was of the professional character here depicted, and in memory of one of those
bold privateers who were permitted to sail the seas on their own account in the old war times.

FIG. 90.--AT BANGOR, IRELAND.

The following is the epitaph, as clearly to be read now as on the day when it was carved on
this slab of Irish slate, more than a century since:

  "Born to a course of Manly action free,
  I dauntless trod ye fluctuating sea
  In Pompous War or happier Peace to bring
  Joy to my Sire and honour to my King.
  And much by favour of the God was done
  Ere half the term of human life was run.
      One fatal night, returning from the bay
  Where British fleets ye Gallic land survey,
  Whilst with warm hope my trembling heart beat high,
  My friends, my kindred, and my country nigh,
  Lasht by the winds the waves arose and bore
  Our Ship in shattered fragments to the shore.
  There ye flak'd surge opprest my darkening sight,
  And there my eyes for ever lost the light.

  "Captain George Colvill of the Private Ship
      of War 'Amazon,' and only son of
      Robert Colvill of Bangor, was wrecked
      near this ground 25th February 1780, in
      ye 22nd year of his age."

A possible explanation of the long endurance of this slate slab may be found in the practice
which prevails in this and some other churchyards of giving all such memorials a periodical
coat of paint; of which, however, in the case here quoted there is no remaining trace.

Altogether, primitive as they may be, the gravestones of the last century in Ireland, so far
as I have seen them, compare favourably with the works of the hedge-mason in England which
we have seen in earlier chapters. Even the poor pillar of rough stone, unhewn, ungarnished,
and bare as it is, represents an affectionate remembrance of the dead which is full of pathos,
and has a refinement in its simplicity which commands our sympathy far above the semi-barbarous
engravings of heads and skulls which we have previously pictured. The immaturity of provincial
art in Ireland is at least redeemed by an absence of such monstrous figures and designs as
we at the present day usually associate with the carvings of savages in the African interior.

But the eighteenth-century gravestones in Ireland are not all of the primitive kind--many of
them being as artistic and well-finished as any to be found in other parts of the British Isles.
The predominant type is the "I.H.S.," surmounted by the cross, which appears on probably four-fifths
of the inscribed stones of the eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries in Ireland. The only
instances which came under my notice bearing any resemblance to the incipient notions of human
heads so frequently met with in certain parts of England were the three here copied (Fig. 91).
Nos. 2 and 3 are taken from gravestones in the old churchyard near Queenstown, and the other
appears in duplicate on one stone at Muckross Abbey by the Lakes of Killarney.[11] The stately
wreck of Muckross Abbey has in its decay enclosed within its walls the tombs of knights and
heroes whose monuments stand in gorgeous contrast to the desolation which is mouldering around
them; while on the south side of the ancient edifice is the graveyard in which the peasant-fathers
of the hamlet sleep, the green mounds which cover them in some instances marked by carved stones
taken from the adjacent ruins. Both Abbey and grounds are still used for interments, together
with the enclosure about the little church of Killaghie on the neighbouring eminence--a church
which (like a few others) enjoys the reputation of being the smallest in the kingdom.

[Footnote 11: The Muckross stone (No. 1) was overgrown with ivy which quite covered up the
inscription, but its date was probably about 1750. Of the two from Queenstown, No. 2 is to
Mary Gammell, 1793, aged 53; and No. 3 to Roger Brettridge, 1776, aged 63.]

I leave to the ethnologists the task of accounting for these abnormal carvings in the South
of Ireland, and associating them with the like productions of the same period in the South
of England. Or perhaps I ought rather to excuse my insufficient researches, which, though spread
over a broad area, are yet confined to but a few of the many spots available, and may very
probably have passed by unexplored the fruitful fields. But, in the words of Professor Stephens,
the apostle of Runic monuments, I claim for this work that it is "only a beginning, a breaking
of the ice, a ground upon which others may build." My pages are but "feelers groping out things
and thoughts for further examination."

CHAPTER XI.

OLD GRAVESTONES IN SCOTLAND.

A very peculiar interest attaches to the old stones which survive in the burial-grounds of
Scotland. Regarded generally they are of a description quite apart from the prevalent features
of their English and Irish prototypes. Taking the same period as hitherto in limiting our purview
of the subject, that is from the latter part of the seventeenth to the early part of the nineteenth
century, it may perhaps be said that the Scottish headstones are tablets of Scottish history
and registers of Scottish character during a long and memorable time. The one all-prevalent
feature everywhere is indicative of the severe piety and self-sacrifice of an age and a people
remarkable for one of the simplest professions of faith that has ever existed under the Christian
dispensation. The rigid discipline, contempt for form, and sustained humility of the old Covenanters
are written deeply in the modest stones which mark the green graves of their faithful dead
during a period of fully two hundred years. The vainglory of a graven stone to exalt the virtues
of imperfect men and women was to them a forbidden thing; the ostentation even of a name carved
on a slab was at variance with doctrine; the cravings of a poor humanity to be remembered after
death had to be satisfied with bare initials, and initials are all that were written on the
gravestones in many thousands of cases, probably ninety per cent, of the whole, throughout
the eighteenth century and approximate years. But the rule was not without its exceptions,
often of novel and peculiar description. The skull and crossbone series, so common in the south,
have no place in North Britain; while the symbol of the cross, so frequent in Ireland, is very
rarely to be found in any shape whatever within the boundaries of a Scottish burial-place.
I present four specimen types from the old chapel-yard at Inverness.

FIG. 92.--AT INVERNESS.

On the stone No. 2 the tailor's tools--shears, goose, and bodkin--are clear enough, and I was
told that the figures on the stone in the lower left-hand corner (No. 3) are locally recognized
as the shuttle and some other requisite of the weaver's trade. Inverness had spinning and weaving
for its staple industries when Pennant visited the place in 1759. Its exports of cordage and
sacking were considerable, and (says Pennant) "the linen manufacture saves the town above £3000
a year, which used to go to Holland."

In the 1698 example (No. 1) the short "and" (&) leaves no doubt that W.F. & J. McP. (probably
McPherson and his wife) are there buried; and the similar information is almost as certainly
conveyed in the manifold cases in which appears the sign which occupies the same position in
the two lower stones (Nos. 3 and 4). These, however, are all of later date, and may be set
down as developments, or rather corruptions, of the original form. The same signs, however,
constantly occur in all the northern graveyards.

Scotland has also its cruder form of memorial in the rough unhewn slabs of native freestone,
which are used in all parts of the British Isles wherever such material is readily procurable.

FIG. 93.--AT BRAEMAR.

Two of these slabs of different degrees are seen in my Braemar sketch, but both seem of one
family and serve to shew us the unconscious evolution of a doctrinal law into a national custom.
The employment of initials, originally the sacrifice and self-denial of a dissentient faith,
is here, as in other instances, combined with the Catholic emblem of the Cross. This little
graveyard of Braemar, lying among the moors and mountains which surround Balmoral, and accustomed
to receiving illustrious pilgrims whose shoe-string the poor gravestone tramp is not worthy
to unloose, is still used for indiscriminate burials, and furnishes several examples of Roman
Catholic interments. Wherever such are found in Scotland, bearing dates of the eighteenth century,
they are usually of the rough character depicted in the sketch. The recumbent slab in the same
drawing is given to illustrate the table or altar stone, which throughout Scotland has been
used all through the Covenantic period to evade the Covenantic rule of the simple anonymous
gravestone, for such memorials are almost invariably engraved and inscribed with designs and
epitaphs, sometimes of the most elaborate character. But these are not mere gravestones: they
are "tombs."

FIG. 94.--AT STIRLING.

In all parts of Scotland at which we find departures from the conventional simplicity of the
gravestone, the variation inclines abundantly towards the symbols of trade and husbandry. At
Stirling, in the noble churchyard perched on the Castle Rock, the weaver's shuttle noticed
at Inverness appears in many varieties, for Pennant tells us that in 1772 Stirling, with only
4000 inhabitants, was an important factory of "tartanes and shalloons," and employed about
thirty looms in making carpets.[12] Occasionally the bobbin is represented alone, but the predominant
fashion is the shuttle open and revealing the bobbin in its place. This is as it appears in
No. 1 of the four sketches from Stirling, where it seems to indicate, with the shovel and rake,
a mingling of weaver and agriculturist. The other trade emblems speak for themselves, excepting
the reversed figure 4 in the stone of 1710 (No. 3). This sign has been variously interpreted,
but the most reliable authorities say that it is a merchant's mark used not only in Stirling
but in other parts of Scotland, if not of England. There are in Howff Burial-ground, Dundee,
and in many country churchyards round about that town and Stirling, numerous varieties of this
figure, some having the "4" in the ordinary unreversed shape, some with and some without the
*, some of both shapes resting on the letter "M," and others independent of any support whatever.
It has also been supposed to have some connection with the masons' marks frequently to be seen
in old churches, and is even regarded as possibly of prehistoric origin.[13]

[Footnote 12: Pennant pronounced the view from Stirling heights "the finest in Scotland."]

[Footnote 13: The vulgar explanation of the sign is "4d. discount on the shilling," and some
of the guide-books are not much better informed when they assume that it marks Stirling as
the fourth city of Scotland, for in the old roll of Scottish burghs Stirling stands fifth.]

FIG. 95.--AT BLAIRGOWRIE.

The stone copied at Blairgowrie is an enigma which I scarcely dare to unravel, but it will
admit of several interpretations. "I.E." probably stands for John Elder and "M.H." for his
"spouse," but to set out John Elder's name in full, and at the same time to insert his initials,
shews either a misconception of, or disregard for, the principles and usages of the Presbytery.
Otherwise, in some respects, this example is almost worthy to be classed with the more degenerate
forms of churchyard sculpture in England; the skull, the crown, the hour-glass, the coffin,
and the bones being all well-known and conventional signs. The compasses may stand for John
Elder's profession, but the figure which resembles a cheese-cutter, just below the crown, can
only be a subject of conjecture. This stone, which is one of the least artistic I have met
with in Scotland, is an evidence to shew that the rural sculptor was as ready in the north
as in the south to blossom forth had he not been checked by the rigours of the Church. At times
indeed the mortal passion for a name to live to posterity was too strong to be altogether curbed,
as we may see manifested even in the prescribed initials when they are moulded of heroic size,
from 8 to 10 inches being no uncommon height. Remarkable also is the fact just mentioned (page
86) that, concurrently with the erection of these dumb headstones, there were flat or table
stones[14] allowed, upon which not only were the names and virtues of the departed fully set
forth, but all sorts of emblematical devices introduced. The table tomb was probably in itself
a vanity, and, the boundary passed, there appears to have been no limit to its excesses. There
are a great many instances of this at Inverness, Aberdeen, Keith, Dunblane, and elsewhere,
and the stone which appears in the sketch from Braemar is only one of several in that very
limited space. Such exceptional cases seem to indicate some local relaxation from the austerity
of the period, which was apparently most intense in the centres of population. Humility at
the grave extended even to the material of the gravestone. At Aberdeen, the Granite City, few
of the last-century gravestones are of any better material than the soft sandstones which must
have been imported from Elgin or the south. The rule of initials was almost universal. In like
manner, when it became the custom to purchase grave-spaces, the simplest possible words were
employed to denote the ownership. I noticed one stone in Aberdeen bearing on its face the medallion
portrait of a lady, and only the words of Isaiah, chapter xl. verse 6: "The voice said, All
flesh is grass, and all the goodliness thereof is as the flower of the field." At the back
of the stone is written: "This burying ground, containing two graves, belongs to William Rait,
Merchant. Aberdeen, 1800." The practice of carving on both faces of the headstone is very common
in Scotland, and, so far as I have observed, in Scotland alone; but, strange as it may seem,
Scotland and Ireland when they write gravestone inscriptions have one habit in common, that
of beginning their epitaphs, not with the name of the deceased person, but with the name of
the person who provides the stone. Thus:--

  Erected by William Brown
  to his Father John Brown,
  etc., etc.

[Footnote 14: It has been suggested to me that these "tombs" were the luxuries of the wealthier
inhabitants.]

CHAPTER XII.

OLD GRAVESTONES ABROAD.

"Abroad" is a big place, and no sufficient treatment under the head of this chapter is possible
except to one who has had very great experience and extended research. Nevertheless I may,
with all due diffidence and modesty, tell the little I know on the subject. My opportunities
of investigation have been few, and restricted to a limited area--so restricted and so limited
that I cannot tell whether or not the observations I have made may be taken as indications
of national habits or merely as idiosyncrasies of the people inhabiting the particular localities
which I was able to visit. All the churchyards which I have seen in France, Belgium, Germany,
and Switzerland very much resemble each other, and are altogether unlike the graveyards of
Great Britain and her children. It is to the villages we should naturally go for primitive
memorials of the dead, but in all the continental villages which I have visited memorials of
a permanent character, either old or new, are scarcely to be seen. Occasionally a stone slab
may be encountered, but almost always of recent date. At Laufen in the Canton of Zurich, near
the Falls of the Rhine, I selected almost at random the examples of memorials shewn in my sketch
(Fig. 96), one or other of which was at the head of nearly every grave.

FIG. 96.--AT LAUFEN.

The average height of these mementoes was about 2 feet, and all the dates which I saw were
of the last twenty-five years. Permanence indeed is apparently not considered as it is with
us in the like circumstances. The British gravestone is trusted to perpetuate at least the
names of our departed friends down to the days of our posterity, but the provision made by
our neighbours seems to have been for the existing generation only. Posterity does not trouble
the villagers of Switzerland nor their prototypes of other nations around them. This fact was
strongly exemplified at Neuhausen, a small place on the other bank of the Rhine, "five minutes
from Germany" we were told.

FIG. 97.--AT NEUHAUSEN.

In the churchyard at this place was one handsome tombstone, shewn in the drawing, erected apparently
in 1790. This was evidence of somewhat ancient art, and I looked about for the old gravestones
which should have kept it company. Erect in its place there was not one, but in the remotest
corner of the enclosure I came upon several stones lying flat, one upon another, the uppermost
and only visible inscription bearing the recent date of 1870! Only twenty years or so "on sentry"
at the grave, and already relieved from duty! There was likewise a miscellaneous heap of old
crosses, etc., of iron and wood, the writing on which had disappeared, and they might reasonably
have been condemned as of no further service; but that gravestones in perfect preservation
should have been thought to have served their full purpose in a little over twenty years, and
be cast aside as no longer requisite, was a remarkable lesson in national character. All the
graves were flat, and at the head of every recent one was a small iron slab bearing a number.
Many of those which had crosses were hung with immortelles, composed generally of glass-beads.

In Neuhausen Graveyard, at the end of the row of graves, are seen two rings protruding from
the ground. Lying near is an iron shield with two similar rings surmounting it. It is readily
supposed that the first-named rings are also attached to a shield buried in the earth, and
so it proves. In order that no space may be lost between the graves, the shields are used alternately
to serve as the dividing wall, and are then drawn out, thus enabling the sexton to pack the
coffins close together.

The towns and cities abroad have their cemeteries beyond the outskirts, as is the practice
here. Occasionally an old churchyard is to be met with, but never an old gravestone as we know
it. Still there are instances in which ancient carvings of the same character have been saved
by attachment to the church or churchyard wall. Several such are to be seen in German churchyards
long since converted to purposes of recreation, and one at Heidelberg may be taken as an example.

FIG. 98.--AT HEIDELBERG

  To "Barbara Fosterii," died 1745, aged 67.

At Lucerne, tinder similar conditions, the striking figures of two skeletons, partly in military
garb, keep guard over the tablet which records the virtues of a departed hero. He was probably
a soldier, but the figure of a lictor on the left with his fasces of axe and rods seems to
betoken some civil employment. In ancient times the lictors walked in advance of the magistrates,
and executed sentence when pronounced.

FIG. 99.--AT LUCERNE.

  To "Iodoco Bernardo Hartman," died 1752,
            aged 67 years.

The two last-given illustrations may possibly belong to the category of mural tablets rather
than that of gravestones, being fixed apparently by original design, and not by afterthought,
as in our "converted" burial-grounds, against the outer walls of the church. There are, however,
no other remains which I could discover bearing any resemblance to the old British headstone,
and the evanescent character which seems to have attached for a certain period to the memorials
of the dead among our neighbours abroad forbids the expectation that any such as those which
have appeared in our earlier chapters are to be found in Europe outside the boundaries of our
Empire. In more modern observances, especially in the centres of population, English and continental
manners more nearly approximate; and in the many new cemeteries which are now to be found adjacent
to the cities and large towns of Western Europe there are tombs and gravestones as many and
as costly as are to be found in any round London. In Germany the present practice appears to
be single interments, and one inscription only on the stone, and that studiously brief. Thus:

  Eduard Schmidt
  Geb d. 8 Oct., 1886.
  Gest d. 10 Jan., 1887.

This I copied in the cemetery at Schaffhausen. But at Hendon, a north-west suburb of London,
has recently been placed against the church wall a still simpler memorial, a small slab of
marble, inscribed:

  Carl Richard Loose
  B. 21. 1. 52: D. 14. 10. 81.

For brevity in excelsis the following, from the cemetery at Heidelberg, can hardly be eclipsed:

  Michael Seiler
  1805.--1887.

Sometimes the asterisk is used by the Germans to denote birth, and the dagger (or cross) for
death, thus:

  Hier Risht in Gott
  Natalie Brethke
  * 1850  ± 1884

CHAPTER XIII.

VERY OLD GRAVESTONES.

Although, for reasons already explained or surmised, the gravestones in our burial-grounds
seldom exceed an age of 200 years, there has probably been no time and no race of men in which
such memorials were unknown. Professor Dr. John Stuart, the Scottish antiquary,[15] opines
that "the erection of stones to the memory of the dead has been common to all the world from
the earliest times," and there are many instances recorded in the Old Testament, as when Rachel
died and Jacob "set a pillar upon her grave" (Genesis, chapter xxxv. verse 20); and another
authority, Mr. R. R. Brash,[16] in a similar strain, comments on the sentiment which appears
to have been common to human nature in all ages, and among all conditions of mankind, namely
a desire to leave after him something to perpetuate his memory, something more durable than
his frail humanity. This propensity doubtless led him in his earliest and rudest state to set
on end in the earth the rough and unhewn pillar stone which he found lying prostrate on the
surface, and these hoar memorials exist in almost every country.

[Footnote 15: "The Sculptured Stones of Scotland" (2 Samuel, chapter xviii. verse 18).

Professor Stuart indeed declares that there is no custom in the history of human progress which
serves so much to connect the remote past with the present period as the erection of pillar
stones. We meet with it, he says, in the infancy of history, and it is even yet, in some shape
or other, the means by which man hopes to hand down his memory to the future. The sculptured
tombs of early nations often furnish the only key to their modes of life; and their memorial
stones, if they may not in all cases be classed with sepulchral records, must yet be considered
as remains of the same early period when the rock was the only book in which an author could
convey his thoughts, and when history was to be handed down by memorials which should always
meet the eye and prompt the question, "What mean ye by these stones?"

To such remote antiquity, however, it is probably undesirable to follow our subject. It will
no doubt be thought sufficient for this essay if we leave altogether out of view the researches
which have been made in the older empires of the earth, and confine ourselves to the records
of our own country. Of these, however, there are many, and they are full of interest. In date
they probably occupy a period partly Pagan and partly Christian, and it has been conjectured
that all or most of those discovered had their source in Ireland, with a possibility of an
earlier importation into Ireland by Icelandic, Danish, or other peoples. Many of these stones
have been found buried in the ruins of old churches, and most of them may be supposed to owe
their preservation to some such protection. The drawings of one or two may be given as samples.
Those here sketched (Figs. 100 and 101) are in the National Museum of Antiquities of Scotland,
and occupy with others a considerable space, being well displayed to shew the inscriptions
on both sides.[17] It is by the fact of both sides being written upon that we assign to them
the character of gravestones, that is upright gravestones; but it is also well authenticated
by historical records that the memorial of a Pagan chief in Ireland was a cairn with a pillar
stone standing upon it, and there is little doubt that the Irish invaders carried the practice
with them into Scotland. It is indeed in Scotland that a large proportion of these stones have
been discovered, and there are more than a hundred of them in the Edinburgh Museum. In the
Museum at Dublin there is also a good collection, conveniently arranged; but the British Museum
in London has less than half a dozen--only five--specimens. The number in each of the three
museums fairly represents the relative abundance of such remains in England, Scotland, and
Ireland. Marked on a chart the discoveries are thickly grouped in the North-Western parts of
Scotland, in the South of Ireland, and on the South-Western promontory of Wales. In Cornwall
and Devonshire, along the coast line, there have been found a goodly few, and the others are
dotted sparsely over the whole kingdom--England, as just indicated, furnishing only a modicum.

[Footnote 17: The National Museum of Antiquities in Queen Street, Edinburgh, is unequalled
by any other collection of British and Celtic remains. All these memorial stones are carefully
catalogued, and have, moreover, the advantage of being described at length, with full illustration,
in Professor Stuart's copious work (previously mentioned) on "The Sculptured Stones of Scotland."]

The inscriptions upon such stones, when they are inscribed, are usually in Ogam or Runic characters.
An example of the Ogam writing is shewn on the edges of the Bressay stone (Fig. 100), and also
on the front side of the Lunnasting stone (Fig. 101a). The Ogam style was used by the ancient
Irish and some other Celtic nations, and the "Ogams," or letters, consist principally of lines,
or groups of lines, deriving their signification from their position on a single stem, or chief
line, over, under, or through which they are drawn, perpendicularly or obliquely. Curves rarely
occur; but some are seen in the inscription on the Bressay stone, which has been thus interpreted
by Dr. Graves, Bishop of Limerick: "Bentire, or the Son of the Druid, lies here." "The Cross
of Nordred's daughter is here placed." This stone was found by a labourer about 1851, while
digging in a piece of waste ground near the ruinous church of Culbinsgarth at Bressay, Shetland.
The design is said to be thoroughly Irish, and the inscription a mixture of Irish and Icelandic.
The stone measures 4 ft. by 1 ft. 4-1/2 in. by 2 in. It is attributed to the ninth century.

The stone 101a is a slab of brownish sandstone, 44 in. by 13 in. by 11/2 in., from Lunnasting,
also in Shetland. It was found five feet below the surface in 1876, and, having probably lain
there for centuries, was in excellent preservation. The authorities, however, are unable to
make a satisfactory translation. The cross or dagger is also of doubtful explanation; and Mr.
Gilbert Goudie thinks it is a mere mason's mark. It is, however, admitted on all hands that
the stone is of Christian origin, and probably of the period just subsequent to the termination
of the Roman rule in Britain. It has been suggested that most of these ancient gravestones
were carved and set up by the Irish missionary monks not earlier than A.D. 580. The Ogam inscription
on the Lumasting stone has been made by one expert to read:

  EATTUICHEATTS MAHEADTTANNN
  HCCFFSTFF NCDTONS.

A strange and inexplicable aggregation of consonants.

The stone represented below, 101 b, bears an inscription in Runic characters. Runic is a term
applied to any mysterious writing; but there were three leading classes of "runes"--Scandinavian,
German, and Anglo-Saxon--all agreeing in certain features, and all ascribed by some authorities
to the Phoenicians. The stone 101 b was found in 1865, at Kilbar, Barra, a remote island of
the outer Hebrides, off the north-west coast of Scotland. It measures 6 ft. 5-1/2 in. in height,
and its greatest width is 15-1/2 inches. Mr. Carmichael has conjectured that it was probably
brought from Iona about the beginning of the seventeenth century, and erected in Barra at the
head of a grave made by a son of McNeil for himself. But it is believed to have been in any
case a Norse memorial in the first instance, though certainly Christian, for it reads:

"Ur and Thur Gared set up the stones of Riskar.[18] May Christ guard his soul."

[Footnote 18: Riskar, or Raskar, is a surname of the Norwegians, who were early settled in
the Western Islands and adopted the Christian faith.--"Old Northern Runic Monuments of Scandinavia
and England," by Dr. George Stephens, F.S.A.]

The Barra stone has on the reverse side a large cross, carved in plaited bands. Dr. Petrie
has pointed out that the cross is not necessarily indicative of belief, the ancient Danes and
other peoples having used various signs--the cross frequently--to mark their boundaries, their
cattle, and their graves.[19] There is little doubt, however, that in most of these British
and Irish memorials, although the stones may originally have been Pagan, the cross is typical
of Christianity. We are told that it was not unusual for St. Patrick to dedicate Pagan monuments
to the honour of the true God. On one occasion, it is related, on the authority of an ancient
life of the Saint, that, on coming to the Plain of Magh Solga, near Elphin, he found three
pillar stones which had been raised there by the Pagans, either as memorials of events or for
the celebration of Pagan rites, on one of which he inscribed the name of Jesus, on another
Soter, and on the third Salvator, along probably with the cross, such as is seen on nearly
every Christian monument in Ireland. In the same way on two of five upright pillars in the
parish of Maroun, Isle of Man, are crosses deeply incised. This spot is traditionally associated
with St. Patrick as the place where he preached, and the stones appear to be remains of a Druidical
circle.

[Footnote 19: "Christian Inscriptions in the Irish Language." Collected by George Petrie, and
edited by Miss M. Stokes.]

This practice is quite consistent with the principles upon which the Christian conversion was
established by the early missionaries. Thus, Gregory, in a letter from Rome, in 601, directed
that the idolatrous temples in England should not be destroyed, but turned into Christian churches,
in order that the people might be induced to resort to their customary places of worship; and
they were even allowed to kill cattle as sacrifices to God, as had been their practice in their
previous idolatry. Hence also arose the system of establishing new churches on the sites previously
held as consecrated by heathen worship.

Of the five old gravestones in the British Museum, four are from Ireland and one from Fardell
in Devonshire. The Fardell stone was found about the year 1850, acting as a footbridge across
a small brook at Fardell, near Ivybridge, Devonshire--a district once inhabited by a Celtic
tribe. It is of coarse granite, 6 ft. 3 in. high, 2 ft. 9 in. broad, and from 7 to 9 inches
thick. It bears an Ogam inscription on two angles of the same face, and debased Roman characters
on the front and back. It reads, according to Mr. Brash, in the Ogam, "Safagguc the son of
Cuic;" and, in the Roman, "Fanon the son of Rian."

The three Irish Ogam stones were presented to the British Museum by Colonel A. Lane Fox, F.S.A.,
who dug them out of an ancient fort at Roovesmore, near Kilcrea, on the Cork Railway, where
they were forming the roof of a subterranean chamber. No. 1 cannot be positively deciphered
or translated; No. 2 is inscribed to "the son of Falaman," who lived in the eighth century,
and also to "the son of Erca," one of a family of Kings and Bishops who flourished in the ancient
kingdom of Ireland; and No. 3, which is damaged, is supposed to have been dedicated to a Bishop
Usaille, about A.D. 454. All the stones came probably from some cemetery in the district in
which they were found.

It has been remarked that the distribution of these old stones marks clearly the ancient history
of our islands; their frequency or rarity in each case corresponding accurately with the relations
existing in remote times between Ireland on the one side, and Wales, Cornwall, and Scotland
on the other. Further enquiry into the subject is scarcely to be expected in this rudimentary work.

To seek for the germ of the gravestone is indeed a far quest. Like the ignis fatuus, it recedes
as we seem to approach it. In the sculpture galleries of the British Museum there are several
examples preserved to us from the ancient Empire of Assyria, and one described as the "Monolith
of Shahnaneser II., King of Assyria, B.C. 850," is almost the exact counterpart of the headstones
which are in vogue to-day. It stands 5 ft. 6 in. high, is 2 ft. 9 in. wide, and 8 inches thick.
Like the Scottish stones of the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries it is inscribed on both faces.

CHAPTER XIV.

THE REGULATION OF GRAVESTONES.

