 It was a confusion in him of happiness and childish Despair. For
today, something new had happened in his life. For the first time he had in the fates intervened
by adults. He forgot, even in the half dream, his own Childhood seemed to be large and all
at once. Sometimes he had, lonely and often sickly educated, had few friends. For all his need for
affection No one had been there when the parents, the little care about him, and the servants.
And the violence of love is always incorrectly calculated, but only if we upgraded to their
cause and not by the voltage precedes it, that hollow, dark room of disappointment and loneliness,
the great over all Events of the heart is. A superheavy, a feeling had been waiting here unconsumed
and now rushed forward with outstretched arms in the first, which seemed to deserve it. Edgar
was in the dark, happy and confused, he wanted to laugh and cry. For he loved this Man as he never
had a boyfriend, never father and mother, not even God loved. The whole immature passion of his
earlier years clutched the image of this man, whose name he had never known two hours ago.

But he was wise enough by the unexpected nature of this new friendship
not to be harassed.

What makes him so very confused, was the sense of his worthlessness, his Nullity. "Pass me because
to him, me, a little boy, twelve years old, who is still in school before him, the evening will
be sent to bed before all others, "he tormented himself. "What I can be to him what I can offer
him? "It is this painful perceived inability to somehow show his feelings to, made him unhappy.
Otherwise, if a comrade had grown fond of, it was his first, the few small treasures his desk,
stamps and stones, the childish possession of the child, to share with him, but all these things
him yesterday were of high significance and rare beauty, it seemed tied by a sudden, foolish and
contemptible. For as he was able to offer this kind of this new friend, he does not dared even
know the answer to you, where was a way, a way to his feelings betrayed? More and more he felt the agony
of being small, somewhat half, immature, a Child of twelve years, and he had never cursed so
stormy that being a child and as friendly longed, in contrast to wake up, just as he dreamed
himself: tall and strong man, an adult like the others.

In these troubled thoughts quickly wove the first colored dreams of this new World of a man. Edgar finally
fell asleep with a smile, but the memory tomorrow's appointment undermined
his sleep.

He woke at seven with the clock Fear on to be late. He hastily dressed, greeted the astonished
mother, who was forced to try and get out of bed in her room and ran before it further could
ask questions down. To nine clock he wandered around impatiently, forgot that he eat breakfast
should only concern not to allow the friend to wait a long walk.

At half past nine at last came the Baron angeschlendert carefree. He had of course long been the appointment
forgotten, but now that the boy losschnellte eager for him, he had
to smile at so much Passion and was willing to meet his promise.

He took the boys again under his arm, went with the beam ends up and down, only that he gently, but
firmly fended off, now to begin the walk together. He seemed to be waiting for something, This
was indicated by at least be nervous tap the doors look. Suddenly he straightened up. Edgar's
mother had entered and came reciprocating the greeting, friendly to both.


THE CAMPAIGN OF TRENTON

NEW YORK THE SEAT OF WAR

[Sidenote: New views of the war.]

Upon finding that what had at first seemed only a local rebellion was spreading like wildfire
throughout the length and breadth of the colonies, that bloodshed had united the people as
one man, and that these people were everywhere getting ready for a most determined resistance,
the British ministry awoke to the necessity of dealing with the revolt, in this its newer and
more dangerous aspect, as a fact to be faced accordingly, and its military measures were, therefore,
no longer directed to New England exclusively, but to the suppression of the rebellion as a
whole. For this purpose New York was very judiciously chosen as the true base of operations.[1]

In the colonies, the news of great preparations then making in England to carry out this policy,
inevitably led up to the same conclusions, but as the siege of Boston had not yet drawn to
a close, very little could be done by way of making ready to meet this new and dangerous emergency.

We must now first look at the ways and means.

[Sidenote: The new Continental Army.]

A new army had been enlisted in the trenches before Boston to take the place of that first
one, whose term of service expired with the new year, 1776. On paper it consisted of twenty-eight
battalions, with an aggregate of 20,372 officers and men. By the actual returns, made up shortly
before the army marched for New York, there were 13,145 men of all arms then enrolled, of whom
not more than 9,500 were reported as fit for duty. These were all Continentals,[2] as the regular
troops were then called, to distinguish them from the militia.

[Sidenote: It marches to New York.]

Immediately upon the evacuation of Boston by the British (March 17, 1776), the army marched
by divisions to New York, the last brigade, with the commander-in-chief, leaving Cambridge
on April 4.[3] This move distinctly foreshadows the general opinion that the seat of war was
about to be transferred to New York and its environs.

There is no need to discuss the general proposition, so quickly accepted by both belligerents,
as regards the strategic value of New York for combined operations by land and sea. Hence the
Americans were naturally unwilling to abandon it to the enemy. A successful defence was really
beyond their abilities, however, against such a powerful fleet as was now coming to attack
them, because this fleet could not be prevented from forcing its way into the upper bay without
strong fortifications at the Narrows to stop it, and these the Americans did not have. Once
in possession of the navigable waters, the enemy could cut off communication in every direction,
as well as choose his own point of attack. Afraid, however, of the moral effect of giving up
the city without a struggle, the Americans were led into the fatal error of squandering their
resources upon a defence which could end only in one way, instead of holding the royal army
besieged, as had been so successfully done at Boston.

Having arrived at New York, Washington's force was increased by the two or three thousand men
who had been hastily summoned for its defence,[4] and who were then busily employed in throwing
up works at various points, under the direction of the engineers.

[Sidenote: Make-up of the army.]

Now, it is usual to call such a large body of raw recruits, badly armed, and without discipline,
an army, in the same breath as a well armed and thoroughly disciplined body. This one had done
good service behind entrenchments, and in some minor operations at Boston had shown itself
possessed of the best material, but the situation was now to be wholly reversed, the besiegers
were to become the besieged, their mistakes were to be turned against them, the experiments
of inexperience were to be tested at the risk of total failure, and the morale severely tried
by the grumbling and discontent arising for the most part from laxity of discipline, but somewhat
so, too, from the wretched administration of the various civil departments of the army.[5]
The officers did not know how to instruct their men, and the men could not be made to take
proper care of themselves. In consequence of this state of things, inseparable perhaps from
the existing conditions, General Heath tells us that by the first week of August the number
of sick amounted to near 10,000 men, who were to be met with lying "in almost every barn, stable,
shed, and even under the fences and bushes," about the camps. This primary element of disintegration
is always one of the worst possible to deal with in an army of citizen soldiers, and the present
case proved no exception.

Except a troop of Connecticut light-horse, who had been curtly and imprudently dismissed because
they showed sufficient esprit de corps to demur against doing guard duty as infantry, and whose
absence was only too soon to be dearly atoned for, there was no cavalry, not even for patrols,
outposts, or vedettes. These being thus of necessity drawn from the infantry, it was usual
to see them come back into camp with the enemy close at their heels, instead of giving the
alarm in season to get the troops under arms.

As for the infantry, it was truly a motley assemblage. A few of the regiments, raised in the
cities, were tolerably well armed and equipped, and some few were in uniform. But in general
they wore the same homespun in which they had left their homes, even to the field officers,
who were only distinguished by their red cockades. In few regiments were the arms all of one
kind, not a few had only a sprinkling of bayonets, while some companies, whom it had been found
impracticable to furnish with fire-arms at the home rendezvous, carried the old-fashioned pikes
of by-gone days. Among the good, bad, and indifferent, Washington had had two thousand militia
poured in upon him, without any arms whatever. But these men could use pick and spade.

The single regiment of artillery this "rabble army," as Knox calls it, could boast was unquestionably
its most reliable arm. Under Knox's able direction it was getting into fairly good shape, though
the guns were of very light metal. In the early conflicts around New York it was rather too
lavishly used, and suffered accordingly, but its efficiency was so marked as to draw forth
the admission from a British officer of rank that the rebel artillery officers were at least
equal to their own.

These plain facts speak for themselves. If radical defects of organization lay behind them,
it was not the fault of Washington or the army, but is rather attributable to the want of any
settled policy or firm grasp of the situation on the part of the Congress.

Washington had no illusions either with regard to himself or his soldiers. His letters of this
date prove this. He was as well aware of his own shortcomings as a general, as of those of
his men as soldiers. There could, perhaps, be no greater proof of the solidity of his judgment
than this capacity to estimate himself correctly, free from all the prickings of personal vanity
or popular praise. With reference to the army he probably thought that if raw militia would
fight so well behind breastworks at Bunker Hill, they could be depended upon to do so elsewhere,
under the same conditions. His idea, therefore, was to fight only in intrenched positions,
and this was the general plan of campaign for 1776.[6]

Footnotes:

[1] As will be seen farther on, New England had no strategic value in this relation.

[2] Continentals. This term, for want of a better, arose from the practice of speaking of the
colonies, as a whole, as the Continent, to distinguish them from this or that one, separately.

[3] The last brigade to march at this time is meant. As a matter of fact one brigade was left
at Boston, as a guard against accidents. Later on it joined Washington.

[4] General Lee had been sent to New York as early as January. He took military possession
of the city, with militia furnished by Connecticut.

[5] In a private letter General Knox indignantly styles it "this rabble army."

[6] "Being fully persuaded that it would be presumption to draw out our young troops into open
ground against their superiors, both in numbers and discipline, I have never spared the spade
and pickaxe."--Letters.

II

PLANS FOR DEFENCE

[Sidenote: Troops sent to Canada.]

Washington's army had no sooner reached the Hudson than ten of the best battalions[1] were
hurried off to Albany, if possible, to retrieve the disasters which had recently overwhelmed
the army of Canada, where three generals, two of whom, Montgomery and Thomas, were of the highest
promise, with upwards of 5,000 men, had been lost. Why
he had sent for him? "To no evil thing will," replied Luther, went with him, then go away,
confessed and sought-after for the day the Lord's Supper.

Meanwhile it had become almost time for lunch (ie by 10 clock). And as Luther Bugenhagen and by
several noblemen, Max von Walle rock, Hans von solvers including loading a guest was demanded
from him Bugenhagen to come along, hoping that distraction should he well, if he do not sit
at home alone, but with movements of people. Luther struck from. Bugenhagen But it was behind
wife Katherine, and this brought to Luther, to roam In Paul Mayor 'inn. There, he ate and drank,
but very little, and entertained the guests reasonable happiness. At twelve clock he got up and
went to Jonathan D. little garden behind the house and talked there for two hours with the provost.
When leaving, he invited Jonas and his wife, they should eat in the
evening with him.

Law went back Luther attacked the monastery and went to bed to recover.

As the clock came around 5 Ionian, he was still and the doctor's wife asked the guests, the
While not to let his long, and so's a little delay, it attributed its weakness.

After a while the doctor came down to the evening meal together with the others to . Keep He complained
again about large unpleasant roar and blades of the left ear. The Table was heavy, he had to get
up and withdrew, accompanied by Jonas, up in his bedroom back and the doctor had followed,
but the bottom of the stairs the maids to command. Since, as Luther was just above the threshold
of the bedroom, he felt suddenly a swoon, "Oh, Doctor Jona," said the patient, "it is bad, her
water, or what You have, or I perish.

"He fell down lifeless. Jonas shocked and caught a nimble Pot with cold water and poured it over
the powerless head and back. He regained consciousness and began to pray.

By coming up and the doctor, because they saw that he was so frail and almost dead, she was very
shocked and cried the maids. Then she sent to the doctor Dr. Augustin
Schurf and the family friend Bugenhagen.

Meanwhile, they moved the patient out of the clothes and laid him on the back. He was very weak
and completely exhausted. Wife Kathy and Jonas rubbed and cooled him, gave him solace and
did what they could until the doctor arrived.

As the doctor was so cold and lifeless, so Schurf prescribed to the patient warm towels, clothing and
pillows, which are always above the heated charcoal fire, hang on chest and feet, was and rub
his body, comforted him and bade him hope it would, if God wants
to this time have no need.

Then came a 6 clock Dr. Pommer, and friends urged the patient, he should pray with them for the fact
that he might remain alive, and many of them for consolation. Answered He said: "Although
for my part would die is gain, but in the flesh live longer would be necessary for the sake of
many. Dear Lord, Thy will be done. "

But since the impotence increased again, he again prayed for mercy.

Then he said to his wife: "My dearest Kitty, I beg you, our dear God wants me to be at this
time assume that you have shown you in His gracious will. You are my honest woman, but shall You
certainly keep you and no doubt have. Let the blind, godless world about say what they want, you
judge yourself according to God's word and believe firmly, so you have a some constant comfort
against the devil and all his slanderers.

"

Then he asked his little son: "Where is my very favorite Hänsichen?" Since the child brought,
it was laughed at his father. And he said, "Oh, you poor child good! Now I command my dearest
Kathy and poor Waislein you my dear, pious, faithful God. You have nothing but God, the Father
of orphans and widows, the judge will feed you well and supply. "

Then he went on talking with his wife of the silver cups: "The know except You think we have
nothing. "On these and other words of her Lord was the doctor's highly
shocked and saddened.

But she did not remember how great was her sorrow that She saw her dear Lord are in such a way so
miserably as appearance, but she put confidently and said, "My dear
sir!

Is it God's will, I want you to our dear Lord God know better than me. But it's not just about me
and my to do my child, but a lot of pious, Christian people who need your still. Wollet You,
my dearest Lord, do not worry, I command you to His divine will, I hope and trust to God that
he will receive you graciously. "

Soon, the patient felt improvement, the weakness were gone and the doctor said that if the patient
could only sweat, so it should be by the grace of God for this time never again be with him.

As
the three men went to him and resting, down the hall for supper and
were called the women are silent.

The patient came in really sweat. The doctor saw later to the patient and explained by the danger.
Then came the friends who greeted the Convalescent wished him "blessed night" and went home.

Although
it took the ears roaring away on Sunday, could get up in the evening but the doctor and keep up with
friends the evening meal. The physical suffering was lifted soon, but the "intellectual challenge",
as Luther says, threw him a whole week in "Death and Hell" around so that he trembled in every
limb broken.

Hardly this terror was over, it was approaching a new and much longer Visitation: plague, then
ran through the whole of Germany, also came to Wittenberg. Everything was what escaped from,
the city, the university was moved to Jena, Luther was left behind but as a man, pastor and teacher
and his faithful wife to him. He was always the belief that fear is the worst Disease, half
the people die of fear, not of the plague itself, he considered it
for a "nightmare of the devil, he must defy the while the evil looking
forward, the people to blow up so as to frighten and the University,
which he does not hate vain Sun He remained just because of the enormous
fear of the people.

He went without fear to the plague: the wife of Mayor Dene Thilo nearly died in his arms, and
other Pestverdächtige he took in his house. Against it, it seems out of fear of the plague, Elsa
von Kanitz, which in Wittenberg Teacher and girls are supposed to live in Luther, not raised,
but in their place Miss Magdalene now lived in the monastery of Mochau home [273].

The disease broke out in the corners, but soon came to the Elster gate area, where the Pestkirchhof
was [274], first the environment was infected, so the house of the nearest neighbors of the
D. Schurf and finally the Black Monastery. This was now a hospital, because Luther was Dr. Schurf
the sick woman, Hanna, across. The Mochau got from the real plague. The woman of Kaplan (deacon)
tubes, one of Luther hochgeschätzen colleague died, (2nd Nov) because in her condition, including
the child. Bugenhagen and therefore fled with his family from the parish house in the Black Abbey. Two
foster daughters Kate and diseased Little Hans was from the teeth so worn that he did not eat anything
for several weeks and only with Liquid diet was such that he very slowly came to power. This was
Luther itself is still a long time (July to November) from the malaise
plagued, particularly with Rush of blood to the head and as a result
of depression, or as he said, Satan challenged and very exhausted.

Finally came the disease still in the stables and there were five pigs. The farmers brought
the city does not supply, so that a famine was created and the measures of meal 5 penny was a penny
Goose 2 [275].

Only Kate stayed upright in this old need, "bravely in faith and health to the body," and yet she
was near her confinement. She used her husband and child, nieces and guests. The deacon Tube
with his little boy, Paul, which screamed for her mother, Kate took on even more, Luther and Jonas
still urgently invited to visit, as it was a little better. By Mochau was included in the ordinary
winter room (living room), Ms. Hanna was in Catherine's Bower (heatable room), an old dog in
the study, the doctor and the woman stayed Luth in front of the large auditorium. Finally,
the 'Mochau "cut the bump, and after the poison was out, it went better. Finally, in mid-November
gave way to the disease. The couple were glad that the evil spirit
of the Pest was driven only in the pigs and with the victims to ransom.

Matt was fresh and lively, Hanna recovered and escaped the Mochau trouble with the death, Luther's
condition and mood was better, especially when the University gradually returned and he started
his usual teaching was again [276].

In this period (10 December) is now Lara came to the painful weeks with her daughter Elisabeth
down, just as the husband of a lecture he returned home. The previous Strain but had left their
mark, and the mother was legally attacked.

But we did for Christmas was celebrated in the Luther House engagement, the Hanna Sala was to Peter
Eisenberg, an honest man of good family, people-priests in hall betrothed; already on New Year's
Day was the wedding, and the little bed, risen from the farmer's wife had already Unmuße this happy
to go through [277].

The new year (1528) was a healthy and happy throughout, Luther and Kate lived again Fresh on.
They brought on 15 Again in May reached an engagement, between the widowed George D. Kaplan tubes
and their foster daughter of Magdalene Mochau.

The marriage was happy be celebrated on the day after Laurenzi (August 11). But since suffering
felt the joy on 3 August died "Elslein" and love of the daughter, whose arrival the happy parents
to friends had foretold in numerous letters, they had now voted at all wistful and soft, report
back their deposition in the eternal home. "It was a great sorrow, for it died a piece of his
father and part of the womb "[278].

Carried death and marriage in the household community cracked soon
plenty of gaps required.

In May the following year the little Lina, appeared in the Black Abbey. On even miraculously
escaped the Duchess Ursula of Munsterberg, the base of the Duke Georg from the monastery of Freiburg,
including two other civil monastery young women, one of which its rich assets in the lurch,
had to follow the poverty of Christ. The three fled to Wittenberg in the sanctuary of the Luther
house: not a penny, they brought with them, but the Hatred of the Duke and embarrassment to
Luther's sovereign [279].

That was in autumn 1528th At Easter 1529 Mrs. Kate had again host a wedding: the Rev. Bruno Brauer
to Dobin, the bride of course a few days before that stayed in the house. Amsdorf is invited
to attend and is invited, not with iron and Sword, but to gird with
gold and silver, and knapsack, because he does not come without a
gift los.

In summer, the two spouses engaged the professor of medicine Milich Susanna Musch of wit, the
sister of Mrs. D. Schurf [280].

During that period, the landlord often absent on the visitation of Kurkreises which Luther with
the city governor Mr. Metsch, the Noble Hans von Taubenheim and the lawyer Paul Benedict had to make.
This trip to Marburg came to discussing religion with Zwingli (1529).

Of Marburg is also the first letter of the doctor to his wife, who survived is. It is [281]:

"Grace and peace in Christ!

Dear Mr. Kitty!

Know that our friendly call to Marburg is over, and almost in every
seynd one was without the opposing part (other party) do nothing but
keep bread and wine in Communion and confess Christ present in them
spiritually.

Today is the Landgrave, if we could become one, or none the less,
we remain divided, however (as) brothers and Christ Members among
themselves talk.

Since the work Landgraf violently.

But we want the brothers Glienicker Dern and not, peacefully and Guts we do well ....

Tell the Lord Pommer that the best argument of Zwingli seind ​​been that corpus non potest sine
loco esse: ergo non est corpus Christi in pane; the Oecolampadii: this sacramentum est Signun
corporis Christi. I have eight, God blinded them that they must Fürbringer have nothing.

I have much to do and hastens the bot. Say to all good night and pray for us. We seind all fresh
and healthy and live like princes. Kiss me and Lensgen Hänsgen.

E. willing servant

Martin Luther.

The following year (1530), at the time of the Augsburg Reichstag, is the long half-year stay Luther
at the Coburg (April to October). He traveled with the Elector Johann and Registrar Bridge, the Wittenberg
theologians, Melanchthon, and Jonas and adopted its Famulus Veit Dietrich. Lara could not see divorce
her husband without concern for the Reichstag, for when he left it was believed that even Luther
himself go to Augsburg, then in the middle of the Number of his enemies. Soon she got the
news that her husband, expressing his opponents, and especially the emperor in whose night
he was to provoke, not in the southernmost city in the Electorate, remain in the fortress
of Coburg, and although somewhat in obscurity, like as on the Wartburg. It was early morning before
daybreak, and his Famulus Veit Dietrich, brought there, and he let himself grow as the beard
and for that he also sent another friend, Abbot Frederick of Nuremberg, a sword. So had Mrs.
Kitty in the "wilderness Gruboc" all kinds Send things, books and paper for all kinds of fonts,
and recommended her husband to the care Kastellanin the [282]. Course was excellent for the
hermit provided on its Sinai, the first spring with jackdaw flock, cuckoo and nightingale cheerfully
agreed, Veit Dietrich monitored carefully about that Luther not commit error in diet, and caused
him to do archery on bats. Also in visits there was not, complained that he finally, "The Pilgrimage
wants to be big here, "[283]. But Luther was suffering at the unaccustomed leisure but again his
old passion: flow in the leg, headaches and dizziness, and consequently a 'challenge' of Satan,
so that it is already a Oertlein chose for a grave and said that under the Cross in the chapel,
he'll probably lie.

Of these, although the doctor filed its procured Better half no single
word he wrote but they teasingly, "you want (in Augsburg) absolutely
The monks and nuns in the monastery have "[284].

But they knew it or had it in a roundabout way from friends, which
he accused his suffering, or the messengers that passed came.

So she sent him not only Lenchens image, but also his nephew in Cyriak Person along with his
preceptor. Messenger with letters and contracts were busy back and forth: so ordered by Mrs.
Katherine Luther oranges at link in Nuremberg, because there is no in Wittenberg give, and she
learned early and in detail how it was going to Coburg, and in Augsburg, where the Emperor
behaved rudely and even Melanchthon was scared. But if at Wittenberg on Sunday in the Church
for the Augsburg Reichstag happy ending and for the absent theologians was praying, as was
Mrs. Luther probably from all church goers the devout, and to Noon at the table with her table
companions and little children and evening alone in my little room
has they prayed for the expensive man in the distance, as he's in
every letter asks [285].

Some of Luther's letters to his wife of Coburg are preserved, so Pentecost came to a [286]:

"Grace
and peace in Christ.

Dear Kate!

I'm eight, I received all your letters. So this is the fourth letter, I am writing to you today
that he has gone John from here. Lina Konterfeit I with the box too. I knew the H. .. at first,
so black it seems to me (to) be's. I think where you sell it would
you like to spoil (ie, weaning), which was good because inger way;
So that you are their first stop some day, the day after that two
times until it therefore neatly drains.

So I added George Grumbach of mother, wife Argula advised.

Is Gewest here with us and has forgotten me. Reinicke, Hans von Mansfeld and also George Roman,
that we need another place, it will be nasty hither to pilgrimage.

Sage Master Christannus [287] that I have not seen my period shameful
spectacles, because with his letter (is) coming.

I could not see a random result. And I shall be The letter also Kunzen not become a father. Also,
I am not Coburg, (ie I will not be there to see), but otherwise I
can do this, I will not let's. You shall but nevertheless, your letters
to the Kastner (bailiff) [646] to go and see, which is they make me
comfortable.

One begins to Nuremberg and Augsburg to doubt whether anything will of the Reichstag. The Emperor
verzeucht still in Inspruck. The priests have something in front and go with herbs. God admit
that they are the devil dam .... Amen.

Let's read the letter to Mr Doctor Pommer D. Wencel.

Haste. The messenger does not want to wait. Greetings, kisses, heart and be kind to all, each according
to his rank.

Early on Pentecost, 1530.

Martin Luther.

for the attention of my dear housewives Katharin Luth Erin at Wittenberg. "

Wittenberg then went to the fortress of the inhabitants, especially
the family and Jonas, much anger and excitement, the monastery was
temporarily spared.

While Luther was absent at the monastery home Hieronymus Weller as preceptor of the small Cottage.
Jerome, however, was plagued by a melancholy man, and it was so thankful welcomes the fact that
his brother Peter moved into the house, the preceptor of Luther's
nephew, Polner.

Also worthy of D. Pommer (Bugenhagen) came from and into the Black
Temple, to Mrs Kate to advice, and Mrs. Jonas, the always happy, cheerful
wife of the absent in Augsburg Provost, which of course then lost
their second little son soon after birth [288].

With high interest were received Luther's writing, and with much joy in the company of retarded
friends read. Great Jubilee at the table companions caught a humorous Letter from Luther's
"Reichstag of jackdaws and crows," the funny image of the Augsburg Reichstag. As will be described
at all amusing, and the ex-taming "of Malztürken," and her Scharwänzen Tournaments, her "perky" and
war against corn and wheat. And what a joy it was only, as the golden apples from early Nuremberg
with the messenger of Coburg arrived for the dinner party! But first the shining eyes of children
and their playmates on-hearted tale Letters Luther to his "dear Söhnichen John" from the beautiful
Garden of Eden. How has since the mother and aunt Lene happy and Jonas Jost and Melanchthon
Lips, also in the garden should be, and the "greeting and Shine"
is the aunt of the little Hans Lene have been aligned.

Matt was a good boy and, because of his preceptor of his Diligence and zeal praised [289].

However, serious letters arrived from Coburg, what woman Lara and
theologians interested and read in the Luther House were together,
and also circulated among the friends.

However, its most serious worries and pain Luther wrote not in it, but because of all sorts of
concerns of the pupils and to his printer Schirlenz, white and Rau.

Thus came from 14 and 15 August with a messenger two epistles to
his "dear heart housewife"

[290].

Grace and peace in Christ.

My dear Kitty!

This messenger was hastily passed, that I could write anything, just I would not let him go without
my signature.

You like Mr. Johann Pomerania and all say that I will write more soon. We do not have anything
of Augsburg, wait but every hour on message and signature. From flying speeches have we that our
adversary Response should be read in public, but we want to give our men no copy, that they
might respond. Do not know if it's true. Where are they afraid of the light to be our people
do not stay long.

I've been Lorenzentag been quite healthy and have no Buzzing feeling
in my head, It has me dressed up funny to write, because I was so
far zerplaget the sound of it.

Greetings everyone and everything, other times more. God be with you. Amen. And pray confidently,
it is probably created, and God will help.

Announced on Sunday after Lorenzentag, Anno 1530th "

The letter was hardly written, another message came from Augsburg.

Luther kept so the messenger with him overnight and the next day even added the following:

"Grace
and peace in Christ.

My dear Kitty! When I had the letter shut, I got these letters from Augsburg: I had to stop
the messenger that he would take with them. It'll probably hear it, how to Augsburg with our
cause, is almost as I wrote in another letter. Let You read Peter hamlets or Mr. John Pommer [291].
God help further, as he graciously has begun, Amen.

Now I can not write anymore because the messenger sits so wegfertig there, waiting for little.
Greetings our dear bag.

I have read your letter to the Kästnerin (the Kastellanin from Coburg Castle), and thank you
very much. Hans Polner I told Peter Weller to see that he obediently think. Greetings Hans Luther
and his schoolmaster, whom I will soon write. Greetings Lenen cousin
and all.

We eat here ripe grapes, although it is out here this month have been very wet. God be with
you all, Amen.

From the deserts, on the day of the Assumption 1530th

Mart. Luther.

How's verdreußt me that our printer forgiven so shamefully
with the copies [292]. I into sending such copy so that they will
soon be ready - because they make me A bearing fruit out of it. I
wanted to have it be so, I would have know well here with me also
to hold. I have written to you, that you the sermon, where he not
started by Schirlenz Georgen Rau should take and give. But I can well
imagine that Schirlenz be great copy hardly has to move with paper.
Is this not happened, creating it done yet soon and the Sermon are
manufactured onto the conveyor. "

The absence of the doctor hesitated
to do long time to come: it was summer and autumn was and the doctor
was not there. With longing, he was expected and full of longing wrote
his home. But I hope we do get almost even, for this messenger brings
us from Augsburg letter that the action was in our case to an end
and you wait only what the judge and will close Kaiser. It's holding
it so that it will all be repealed on a future council, for the bishop
of Mainz and Augsburg, hold still, so do the Palatine, Trier and Cologne,
not for war or strife consent. The others would like to rage and provided
is that the Emperor shall command with Ernst. Let it be what God wants,
that only the Reichstag an end! We have done enough and offered, and
the Papists do not want a hair's breadth soft, so that one will come
to teach them the clear and soft.

I wonder why the White Hans Psalm
has not taken. I would have not meant that he Sun disgust would be,
if it be but a precious copy. Send this completely the same with all
and treat him well Georgen Rau. Like the copy of Mr. John Cross Pomeranian
who trespass against us, so let print after all. There is nothing
that we celebrate the devil.

Who told you that I was sick, I wonder
very much, and yes before you see the books Eyes that I write. So
I have indeed the prophet of all, without the Ezekiel, where I and
am now in the Sermon on the Sacrament, without anything else of writing
with letters and other more. I could no longer require cables. Greet
everyone and everything.

I have a big beautiful book of sugar for
Hansen Luther, which has brought Cyriac of Nuremberg from the beautiful
garden. Hereby ordered to God and pray.

[Sidenote: Fort Lee taken.]

Regarding Fort Lee as no longer serving any important purpose, perhaps foreseeing that it would
soon be attacked, Washington was getting ready to evacuate it, when on the night of November
19[2] Lord Cornwallis made a sudden dash across to the New Jersey side, passing Fort Lee unperceived,
landed a little above the fort at a place that had strangely been left unguarded, climbed the
heights unmolested, and was only prevented from making prisoners of the whole garrison by its
hurried retreat across the Hackensack. Everything in the fort, even to the kettles in which
the men were cooking their breakfasts, was lost.

As regards any further attempt to stay the tide of defeat, all was now over. The enemy had
obtained a secure foothold on the Jersey shore from which to march across the State, when and
how he pleased. Unpalatable as the admission may be, the fact remains that the Americans had
been everywhere out-generaled and out-fought. Nearly everything in the way of war material
had been lost in the hurried evacuation of New York.[3] Confidence had been lost. Prestige
had been lost. Clearly it was high time to turn over a new leaf. With this lame affair the
first division of the disastrous campaign of 1776 properly closes, and the second properly
begins. It had been watched with alternate hope, doubt, and despondency. Excuses are never
wanting to bolster up failing reputations. The generals said they had no soldiers, the soldiers
declared they had no generals; the people hung their heads and were silent.

Footnotes:

[1] The Eastern troops remained on the east bank of the Hudson, under Lee's command, while
those belonging to the Middle and Southern colonies crossed the Hudson with Washington. This
disposition may have been brought about by the belief that the soldiers of each section would
fight best on their own ground, but the fact is notorious that a most bitter animosity had
grown up between them.

[2] This movement is assigned to the 18th by Gordon and those who have followed him. The 19th
is the date given by Captain Harris, who was with the expedition.

[3] An enumeration of these losses will be found in Gordon's American Revolution, Vol. II., p. 360.

VI

THE RETREAT THROUGH THE JERSEYS

It was now the 20th of November. In a few weeks more, at farthest, the season for active campaigning
would be over. Thus far delay had been the only thing that the Americans had gained; but at
what a cost! Yet Washington's last hopes were of necessity pinned to it, because the respite
it promised was the only means of bringing another army into the field in season to renew the
contest, if indeed it should be renewed at all.

[Sidenote: Strength of the army.]

[Sidenote: State of public feeling.]

Losses in battle, by sickness or desertion, or other causes, had brought his dismembered forces
down to a total of 10,000 men, of whom 3,500 only were now under his immediate command, the
rest being with Lee and Heath. And the work of disintegration was steadily going on. Always
hopeful so long as there was even a straw to cling to, Washington seems to have expected that
the people of New Jersey would have flown to arms, upon hearing that the invader had actually
set foot upon the soil of their State. Vain hope! His appeal had fallen flat. The great and
rich State of Pennsylvania was nearly, if not quite, as unresponsive. Disguise it as we may,
the fire of '76 seemed all but extinct on its very earliest altars, and in its stead only a
few sickly embers glowed here and there among its ashes. The futility of further resistance
was being openly discussed, and submission seemed only one step farther off.

In one of his desponding moments Washington turned to his old comrade, Mercer, with the question,
"What think you, if we should retreat to the back parts of Pennsylvania, would the Pennsylvanians
support us?"

Though himself a Pennsylvanian by adoption, Mercer's answer was given with true soldierly frankness.
"If the lower counties give up, the back counties will do the same," was his discouraging reply.

"We must then retire to Augusta County in Virginia," said Washington, with grave decision,
"and if overpowered there, we must cross the Alleghanies."

A volume would fail to give half as good an idea of the critical condition of affairs as that
brief dialogue.

[Sidenote: Cruelties to prisoners.]

First and foremost among the many causes of the army's disruption was its losses in prisoners.
Not less than 5,000 men were at that moment dying by slow torture in the foul prisons or pestilential
floating dungeons of New York. Turn from it as we may, there is no escaping the conviction
that if not done with the actual sanction of Sir William Howe, these atrocities were at least
committed with his guilty knowledge.[1] The calculated barbarities practised upon these poor
prisoners, with no other purpose than to make them desert their cause, or if that failed, totally
to unfit them for serving it more, are almost too shocking for belief. It was such acts as
these that wrung from the indignant Napier the terrible admission that "the annals of civilized
warfare furnish nothing more inhuman towards captives of war than the prison ships of England."

This method of disposing of prisoners was none the less potent that it was in some sort murder.
Washington had not the prisoners to exchange for them, Howe would not liberate them on parole,
and when exchanges were finally effected, the men thus released were too much enfeebled by
disease ever to carry a musket again.

In brief, more of Washington's men were languishing in captivity in New York than he now had
with him in the Jerseys. And he was not losing nearly so many by bullets as by starvation.

[Sidenote: Affects recruiting.]

We have emphasized this dark feature of the contest solely for the purpose of showing its material
influence upon it at this particular time. The knowledge of how they would be treated, should
they fall into the enemy's hands, undoubtedly deterred many from enlisting. In a broader sense,
it added a new and more aggravated complication to the general question as to how the war was
to be carried on by the two belligerents, whether under the restraints of civilized warfare,
or as a war to the knife.

Thrown back upon his own resources, Washington must now bitterly have repented leaving Lee
in an independent command. If there was any secret foreboding on his part that Lee would play
him false, we do not discover it either in his orders or his correspondence. If there was secret
antipathy, Washington showed himself possessed of almost superhuman patience and self-restraint,
for certainly if ever man's patience was tried Washington's was by the shuffling conduct of
his lieutenant at this time; but if aversion there was on Washington's part he resolutely put
it away from him in the interest of the common cause, feeling, no doubt, that Lee was a good
soldier who might yet do good service, and caring little himself as to whom the honor might
fall, so the true end was reached. It was a great mind lowering itself to the level of a little
one. But Lee could only see in it a struggle for personal favor and preferment.

[Sidenote: Retreat begins.]

After the evacuation of Fort Lee, Lee was urged, unfortunately not ordered, to cross his force
into the Jerseys, and so bring it into coöperation with the troops already there. The demonstrations
then making in his front decided Washington to fall back behind the Passaic, which he did on
the 22d, and on the same day marched down that river to Newark. On the 24th Cornwallis,[2]
who now had assumed control of all operations in the Jerseys, was reënforced with two British
brigades and a regiment of Highlanders.

Before this force Washington had no choice but to give way in proportion as Cornwallis advanced,
until Lee should join him, when some chance of checking the enemy might be improved. At any
rate, such a junction would undoubtedly have made Cornwallis more circumspect. As Lee still
hung back, Washington saw this slender hope vanishing. He for a moment listened to the alternative
of marching to Morristown, where the troops from the Northern army would sooner join him; but
as this plan would leave the direct road to Philadelphia open, it neither suited Washington's
temper nor his views, and he therefore adhered to his former one of fighting in retreat. And
though he had failed to check Cornwallis at Newark he would endeavor to do so at New Brunswick.

For New Brunswick, therefore, the remains of the army marched, just as the enemy's rear-guard
was entering Newark in hot pursuit. On finding himself so close to the Americans, Cornwallis
pushed on after them with his light troops, but as Washington had broken down the bridge over
the Raritan after passing it, the British were brought to a halt there. A quarrelsome man began to quarrel with her because of an easement (Maybe
the neighbor of Zulsdorf on Kieritzsch). Melanchthon was willing to settle, but the man demanded
an exorbitant sum and brother Hans advised by comparison. Thus came it to the process, said
Dr. Stromberg at Leipzig and Camerarius, friends Melanchthon, the poor woman's assumptions (1548).
This process lasted for years, but still had 1550 Mrs. Catherine with Melanchthon before the
town's main man in Leipzig for daytime driving appear [636].

Since it was not despair, but to attack with renewed courage the work to themselves and their
children push through with honor. The food table was re-established when it was also difficult, in
these chaotic times, when the university was dispersed, and only with difficulty, again, collected
especially since the new Saxony now had two colleges: Leipzig and Wittenberg, and the sons of the
captive elector to seek to create its own in Jena and then the real to draw Lutherans among the
professors and students of Wittenberg, was only in August the Wittenberg Kollegienhaus the billeting
of dirt cleaned and re-washed [637]. Furthermore, it could be of great merit no question, if
in the two principal Crodel in Torgau Students a week for board and lodging, plus lunch and
dinner, two cans of beer, only 14 Penny paid, and Matthesius in Wittenberg before he came to
Mrs. King, in Jan of Wolf Rochlitz "a very good dry table by 5 pence" had "learned apart from
old honest (honest), good food brethren. " As such, contemporary table is called: Johann Stromer,
the five years for the widow lived and ate. Perhaps at that time was under the table Comrade Kitty
and the Prussian George of Kunheim, on 15 August 1550 in Wittenberg student was so related to
the Lutheran family and later became known [638].

Besides the rooms also the rooms were rented for lectures on Docenten, and so read in the summer
of 1551 in Luther Hall, where the great Doctor else argued about
books of the Bible had, Bartholomew Lasan of Herodotus [639].

Despite all this out of the pledge had to Mrs. Catherine the cup still on her Gütlein Zulsdorf
a loan of 400 florins record with Dr. Franz stuff and they also had to decide to write itself
to the King of Denmark, "the only King on earth to which we may have poor Christians refuge
and from which alone could be expected that the poor Christian preachers and their poor widows
and orphans blessings would sheweth. "To this letter she was forced, after the letter of the
Friends Bugenhagen and Melanchthon been without success. Therefore asking now on 6 October 1550 "DM Luther's
posthumous widow, after she and her children have jetzund less assistance and the unrest this
time many loadings bringeth forth, "she SKM would prescribe such assistance graciously and henceforth.
You will faithfully seriously and ask that God may Sr.KM benefits, which he uses the poor evangelical
pastors and bestowed upon their families, reward and provide for
special gifts and blessings.

"The almighty May God EKM EKM and Queen graciously rule and keep young. "

This, too, was the widow of his own writing, it seems, without success,
although it to the King their "dear lord large load and work" could
remind the SK Maj. certainly not I forget [640].

The time courses were very sad. Cruce died in 1548, and his wife wanted to go by fast; and Veit
Dietrich in Nuremberg retired soon after. Other friends had moved or died. Then there was the
need of the church, which was the widow of Luther's close enough, "the interim" with the "rogue behind
him" the worst Protestant excited again. The new sovereign, Maurice, even at the sight of the
Spaniards and Italians "rogue! Rascal, "cried the Protestants and the as a "Judas" referred to, had
no warm heart, not for the Protestant cause, nor for chief representatives
of the same, the University of Wittenberg and their families.

Since there were cloudy days in the old city on the Elbe [641].

The four children were with her Catherine, and probably some young
relatives.

The nephew Luther, Fabian Kaufmann, now with the Latin scholar with Mercator, recommended Jonas
1548 to a farmstead at the Prince of Anhalt [642].

John studied at Wittenberg on the legal vultures. He may, before after the turmoil of war, the
leisure and opportunity for the study came in again, "the father Goods led a rural life ", that
stood by the mother at the Agriculture, is reported once [643]. After Easter 1549 it came to Melanchthon's
son-Sabinus, Rector of the University of Konigsberg, to Wittenberg. He told a lot of Duke
of Prussia Benevolence towards Luther family.

As advised Melanchthon to send the young man to Konigsberg, so he
then finishing by the favor of the king his studies.

So now wrote Käthe a letter to Duke Albrecht.

Grace and peace in Christ, together with my poor prayers to God for EFGN. zuvoran.

Gracious and high-born Prince and Lord!

Since EFGN. to my dear Lord God-blessed, doctors Martinum with grace
than others always bestowed upon, so I've been in no doubt EFGN.

I would also more than others from Grace, our dear God EFGN. protect his divine word, to love, and
lent to handle, even for my sake, dear Lord blessed as a true prophet this last dangerous and troubled
times me and my children as a posthumous Widow and orphans take gracious protection and let you be
told.

Than without hardship, EFGN. to remember, as in severe hardship for my household, I now TAKEN
War progressed, even as I miserably poor so far from my ravaged and
devastated Goods have to get together with me to feed my children
and - I'm out of Council of Mr. Philippi and viewing of Dr. Sabini,
inclined as EFGN.

My child, my oldest Son of Hans EFGN. cleared, and then after EFGN. him for a while the studies graciously
offered to get himself, wants to EFGN. I have the same gracious support thanks and have Mitsorge
for my posthumous poor children to the humble.

Seeing that my son's first departure, but this is uncivil, and I also handled most of it, (So
​​he) learn in addition to his studies to the people to know (ver) observed, is to EFGN. this
is my humble request to them that my son wanted for my dear Lord pious wishes to admit grace
and protection and because he would otherwise in the first in everything against EFGN. not
to shew knew such ignorance and yet his first ride mercifully good
to keep and bear patience with him.

As I doubt not, it is against EFGN. and submissive to his Präceptoribus behave well to obedience
guilty know his Studiis and by that, he oblieget pursuing diligently and against EFGN. honorable
and feasible in all subjection to know shew himself.

  This then EFGN. transport
  gracious reward our dear God
  is also abundant in turn and am for EFGN. fürzubitten against God
for long-lasting government and welfare at all times studiously humbly.

Date

Wittenberg, 29 May 49th anno

EFG

humble and unterthenige Catharina, D. Martin Luther Seliger posthumous widow. "

Melanchthon wrote a letter to the Duke for the young man, wherein he praised as a "virtuous in nature, respectable,
modest, sincere, pure, of good investment and eloquence, and his
body is agile and powerful and if he will practice at the court, way
could his zeal to the state to prosper great benefit.

"Jonas also recommended in a letter the Duke his "dear friend, the son of the divine prophets,
already recommended by his father "and summoned Sr. Highness the prayer of the wife and widow of
the revered hochw D. Luther. " To several recommendations, Jonas a narrative of the war and in a handwritten
Leave Luther, "the prophet of Germany", in which he prophesied that
war had [644].

So then traveled with Dr. John the end of May from Sabinus, who also are educated by Melanchthon
Daughter took her to his grandfather's deep pain. Also, Jonas' son, Dr. Christopher and Johann
Camerarius, the son of Melanchthon's bosom friend, are likely to
Hans Luther to Konigsberg drawn [645].

It now also received a letter from Hans to Melanchthon, in which he described a part of the journey.
have remained the other part, he seems guilty. Also have to write him Melanchthon, Mother, sister
and brothers were waiting with longing for a letter in which he by all his would like to report
matters, the Leipzig Christmas Mass there was enough opportunity to Mail delivery [646].

Lange was heard no more of Hans Luther. But at home took away the bad times, for the unrest
and agitation because of the interim, the emperor forced the Lutherans had left, not after,
the animosity between the former and current electoral Home were more in growing, especially
since the captive elector still not released, but was dragged around by the Emperor in an unworthy
manner. The siege of Magdeburg, which because had not approved the interim ostracized and
assaulted by Maurice, brought all sorts of harmful agricultural Troop movements, and the university could
not so easily come to take your time and flower. The temptation by "the bad neighbor" would
persist at Catherine. The income wanted in these troubled times is difficult enough for the
household and the education of Children, Mrs. Katharina "was suffering from poverty," so that the
15 Nobel Rose (50 dollars) pension of the Danish King Christian III.
to which the friends einkamen regularly and Catherine himself wrote,
for "the poor woman, our dear father Doctoris Martini widow with her
Children "even a desirable" were gracious help.

The "Pardons" that otherwise the Lutheran Family of their rulers was used were from, because
the old elector was imprisoned and the new large in his plans, and
constant wars had nothing left for them.

Therefore, , Mrs. Catherine complain, "that few people are responsible for the great blessings
of my dear Lord's poor orphans were thinking of doing aid "[647].

The many tragedies of the poor widow came so hard that she, who always healthy, was now sickly
and complain about "weakness" had.

In this difficult time, "because it was not their property, their and their children love the
Lord to help to relieve themselves, "it was a consolation for Mrs. Catherine, that the Prussian
Duke" now himself, his father "should. In this confidence, she turned to George (23 April) 1551 to
SFGn.

Acknowledgements below for the gracious reception and entertainment of her son with the request
him also to complete his unfinished Studii in France or Italy Entertainment
to prescribe, so that he could serve the Duke useful.

But first let the Duke their Son a short time can come to her so that they in their weakness, a number
of useful things could talk to him, because he and his brothers and his sister located appreciably;
then he should go back to Konigsberg or to Italy and France, as SFGn. determine would. Hans
probably had given the mother the plan at hand.

What pain but had to experience the mother of her favorite son, as to the Duke Albrecht arrived
the following reply:

"We find that our gracious will for him not so much as we probably hoped applied. For, as we reported
(are), he should wait for his studies of charge nit. So We know also certain that he is of several
good Handel, which he could well be idle, partake makes. to consider hiking trails that we
truly something difficult (is that) our gracious Kindness is so little concerned with him. "Therefore
strike off the Duke, Hans travel leave, but he would accept in Königsberg from good, so the
Duke was inclined to his Father's sake, for providing him with the maintenance [648].

That was a blow to Catherine's mother's heart! Neither industrious nor properly was her favorite
and both he would be not only the Duke, but also his father and mother
guilty been.

And if she liked to say, the Duke was strict with his charges: as once against her brother Clemens,
so now against her son Hans, and although they probably contend with just as much right to that,
the young, otherwise good kind and willing person had been seduced
by evil societies, remained stand the fact that they son too much
and too good have expected, and that the guardians were right but
the claim that Hans has not got to study - he was even now 25 years
old!

It could also good evidence to cancel anything that the University of Konigsberg's son Luther probably
too favorable exhibited [649].

And when Hans completely gave up the scholarship and study in King Hill and far way slowly returned
home, it was the proof provided that it was of nothing better than to the ducal office. Then
he came in Weimar.

Progressed to better the children of Martin and Paul, one of which
theology, the other medicine studied, Margaret grew into a flourishing
virgin.

The war was probably Schmalkaldic else to an end, not only in Saxony, it was all sorts of Unrest
and rumors, new worry and fear. Saxons swarmed with soldiers, Wittenberg had strong quartering.
And although there were friends of peoples, but were done from the raw All sorts of soldiers
acts of violence.

In the fortified city, the citizens from their own neighborhood guests
not safe to go outside the walls, no one dared, because out there
in the little town murder and manslaughter; cocky called the soldiers
the impossible [650].

And what was now back out on the farms and gardens, just where the trouble with Damage of the Schmalkalden
War were restored!

There were devastation and contribution occurred on their farms. "It's the day," complains Bugenhagen
"that they in their estates, this Year (1551) suffered major damage. "Hiking trails had to go
to law before the Elector Court in January against solver "Jan solvers -. The old Hans Loeser (†
1541), their son and gossip Luther's godfather - had to sue wife Catherine. This was indeed
a bitter response [651].

And if they get their rights?

The elector Maurice was preparing to strike just for the old emperor. So he probably had no Time and
inclination to listen to a wailing widow.

So Ms. Catherine had to do once the acid step and apply to the Danish king, to the on 8 January 1552
including writes:

"EKM know how to graciously remember how that EKM my dear Lord blessed together the Lord and
D. Philippo Pomerano annually given a grace money which they keep
to should have their household and infants, which reported till now
because of Mr EKM überreichet (been).

But seeing that my poor dear EKM always loved and for the most Christian king held, even in
such EKM my blessed to worship Mr behavior: I will prompted by urgent need, EKM unterthäniglich
in my misery to request that the Verhoff be EKM me now "universally
poor and abandoned widows such unworthy my letter graciously keep
me well and follow through grace such money .

Let For EKM doubtless aware, as it stood after the departure of my nu sel man how to hold the
poor, made widows and orphans, so that (it) to have mercy, yes (even) me more by friends than by
enemies inflicted damage, which tell all EKM would be too long. For these and other reasons I will
gedränget to consult EKM submissive, after each one is so foreign
to me and have mercy on me no one wants.

"

Bugenhagen supported this request in a supplement to the widow "Patris Lutheran," which "almost
(Very) lament. And with success: on 22 March came the money in his hand, he writes that SM "done
very well," the widow to console [646].

In February 1552 when the soldiers were housed at the crudest, were
in the minds of Wittenberg still scares the middle of winter by violent
thunderstorms with lightning and thunder.

But soon moved from the warriors.

It now came news that Maurice in with his Saxons, the people of Brandenburg and Hesse, the Emperor
chased and almost caught the flight had (May 1552). The captive prince (Prince Elector Johann
Friedrich, Landgrave Philip of Hesse) were released, and released the religion in the "Treaty
of Passau (August 1552).

Meanwhile it had become spring and summer. Ms Kitty was able to reap and sow and peace happy that finally
after six years of war, escape was devastation occurred, also in terms of peace of the Protestant
faith, for whom her "dear" a Fire had been lit in the German countryside, whose flame they,
too, and they feel the worst, had.

Now would the poor widow can breathe a sigh of long suffering, so she hit the final, fatal Prank.

19.
Chapter.

Catherine's death.

The warriors were withdrawn from Wittenberg, but they had left a bad memory: a contagious disease,
the "plague" that back in the swamp surrounded fortress close quickly to handle and grow with
the summer heat. On 1 June was about relocation of the university advised on 10 Torgau offered
to her hostel. But to 6 July, she was still holding out in Wittenberg.

Then the college moved to the neighboring city and was in the narrow rooms of the angular Barfüßerklosters
accommodated, which had once stormed to Leonhard Koppe Carnival and the now empty.

Mrs. Catherine remained in Wittenberg, probably because of the goods
had to get it, probably the students had sons and table companions
but by one and another master's, who lived in the Black Temple, lectures.

In the large, well located home it was indeed time being unbearable. But in the fall of the monastery
was also home of the disease infected. And to pull their children out of danger, underwent the
concerned mother turn the hardships of emigration. One thing they did span, then, invited the
essentials on the car and drove her children were with her, Paul and Margaret, while Martin's
appears much earlier, the university had followed and Hans in Weimar on the Registry worked
out the Elster gate, Torgau to [652].

Since the accident happened: the horses were afraid and went by car over hill and through Stone.
The terrified woman tried to save the lives of their children, and the wild horses stop her,
she jumped from the car, but fell so unhappy that they violently on the Body anprallte the ground
and then crashed into a ditch with cold water.

The excitement of Case, the common cold, and probably an internal injury caused a severe illness
caused [653].

Thus, the Luther family came to Torgau. Here they lived in the monastery of the "next street
which leads to the castle, in a corner house in the monastery church to the inn. Here was maintained
now wife Catherine in great pain then slowly wasting away from her landlady and her daughter
Margaret, who had now 18 years old [646].

One more bright spot saw the widow of Luther in these days of suffering. Her youngest son, Paul,
the built itself up to an able physician engaged themselves in this time with Anne Warbeck,
the daughter of the erstwhile Mr. Veit Warbeck, former canon of the
Old Castle and Elector.

Councilor and Vice Chancellor of Torgau, a noble from Swabia. Her mother, Anne of Hack - also
a born Swabian - was still alive and had a house at Torgau in the Fischer Gasse [646].

Miss Anna was a resolute woman. She had worn a Damastrock with Samtschleppe and was therefore the
City Council with reference to a dress code drawn into electoral punishment been. However,
they fought back and appealed to the electors, so that an honorable City Council a messenger
to report on Anna Warb Eckin had to send Supplicien gene Dresden for wage and tip. S. Kurf. Gn.
sent now in this subject to the honorable Council of Torgau following Adoption:

"Dear faithful!

We are honest and love of the peculiar maiden by Anne Warbeck humiliating
the action before been reported that you like her the damask velvet
skirt with tail to include wear and, moreover, you shall pay a penalty
have imposed a number of guilders.

Although we know to remind us what we have half the clothes in the police order let go, We note
however, that the imaginary father of a young women of nobility and fürstl. Council was also
the damask, which made the skirt, and the princely gift Skirts before order made above outgoing.
Hiking trails happen because we have that she should wear skirts such honor. And desirable,
then, ye will admit of its kind and to spare with the required punishment, otherwise you act
against them and so , Shew that they have no weighting to complain. It takes our entirely
reliable opinion. Date of Dresden, 30 Jan. Anno LII "[654].

This noble lady was thus the daughter-wife Catherine and this is where determined nature of their
future son wife have had their favor. But the joy of Marriage did not live wife Catherine.

Three Months of sickness of the sick. With Christian patience they endured the suffering and care
for the children. "In the whole period of their illness, they consoled themselves and held upright
with God's word.

In hot prayers they prayed for a peaceful Passing away from this tedious life. Often, too,
God commanded the church and their children and prayed that the purity of the doctrine that God
brought back by her husband's work of this period, the unaltered offspring can be passed down.
"But she herself was" in Christ , Stick like burrs to the dress, "a word that pious after singer
in the song nachsprachen [655].

On 20 December 1552 she gave up
her soul.

The Vice-Rector of the University, Paul Eber, made the
students through one of Melanchthon Latin authored "corpse program
known, in which their lives and suffering described briefly was. In
particular, the memory of the last six years of suffering floated
the faithful friends of the house before our eyes and it almost seems
that wrong they Chancellor Brück Others suffered. "With their orphaned
children as a widow had already heavily burdened under the greatest
threats to wander like a outlaw, great ingratitude she has learned
of many, and of which they hope because of the tremendous achievements
of her husband at the church blessings was allowed, it has often been
shamefully deceived. "Instead of tough German award, with Luther in
his home directory which his fears about the treatment of his widow
air had made: "The people are rough, and the world is ungrateful,"
chose the learned friend to the funeral program as a Greek motto,
saying of Euripides (Orist. 1-3), but the fits the time of unbearable
suffering of the widow of Luther: "There is no evil, no skill, no
Suffering that God imposed and calls it the language, nothing terrible,
not the man erlebet. "

This experience of the heathen poet has compared
the "Programme" for the consolation and the hope of Christianity,
which had also comforted the Blessed in the bitter wound by the death
of her husband's marriage, her escape with the orphaned children during
the war, many times the afflictions of widowhood and the ingratitude
of many people against the widow of reverend and holy man D. Luther. Here,
then, was another rock of danger, upon which the losing cause was now steadily drifting,--another
warning not to delay action.

It was then that Washington resolved on making one of those sudden movements so disconcerting
to a self-confident enemy. It had been some time maturing, but could not be sooner put in execution
on account of the wretched condition of Sullivan's (lately Lee's) troops, who had come off
their long march, as Washington expresses it, in want of everything.

[Sidenote: A first move.]

Putnam was the first to beard the lion by throwing part of his force across the Delaware.[3]
Whether this was done to mask any purposed movement from above, or not, it certainly had that
result. After crossing into the Jerseys Griffin marched straight to Mt. Holly, where he was
halted on the 22d, waiting for the reënforcements he had asked for from Cadwalader. Donop having
promptly accepted the challenge, marched against Griffin, who, having effected his purpose
of drawing Donop's attention to himself, fell back beyond striking distance.

It was Washington's plan to throw Cadwalader's and Ewing's[4] forces in between Donop and Rall,
while Griffin or Putnam was threatening Donop from below; and he was striking Rall from above.
Had these blows fallen in quick succession there is little room to doubt that a much greater
measure of success would have resulted.

Orders for the intended movement were sent out from headquarters on the 23d. They ran to this
effect:

[Sidenote: Rall the object.]

Cadwalader at Bristol, Ewing at Trenton Ferry, and Washington himself at McKonkey's Ferry,
were to cross the Delaware simultaneously on the night of the 25th and attack the enemy's posts
in their front. Cadwalader and Ewing having spent the night in vain efforts to cross their
commands, returned to their encampments. It only remains to follow the movements of the commander-in-chief,
who was fortunately ignorant of these failures.

Twenty-four hundred men, with eighteen cannon, were drawn up on the bank of the river at sunset.
Tolstoi claims that the real problem of the science of war "is to ascertain and formulate the
value of the spirit of the men, and their willingness and eagerness to fight." This little
band was all on fire to be led against the enemy. No holiday march lay before them, yet every
officer and man instinctively felt that the last hope of the Republic lay in the might of his
own good right arm.

Did we need any further proof of the desperate nature of these undertakings, it is found in
the matchless group of officers that now gathered round the commander-in-chief to stand or
fall with him. With such chiefs and such soldiers the fight was sure to be conducted with skill
and energy.

[Sidenote: Strong array of officers.]

Greene, Sullivan, St. Clair, Sterling, Knox, Mercer, Stephen, Glover, Hand, Stark, Poor, and
Patterson were there to lead these slender columns to victory. Among the subordinates who were
treading this rugged pathway to renown were Hull, Monroe, Hamilton, and Wilkinson. Rank disappeared
in the soldier. Major-generals commanded weak brigades, brigadiers, half battalions, colonels,
broken companies. Some sudden inspiration must have nerved these men to face the dangers of
that terrible night. History fails to show a more sublime devotion to an apparently lost cause.

[Sidenote: The Delaware crossed.]

Boats being held in readiness the troops began their memorable crossing. Its difficulties and
dangers may be estimated by the failure of the two coöperating; corps to surmount them. Of
this part of the work Glover[5] took charge. According to the testimony of her
son, the ex post famous doctor Paul Luther, it was half a doctor. He said in his inaugural
speech to his professorship in Jena: "My mother is not alone in breast diseases by Council and helped
cure many, but often men too, free of side pain. "[477] Trusted her, therefore, Luther also better
than "our Lord's flicker," the doctors and pharmacists. When Luther mortally ill and the doctors
Schmalkalden him drugs stated, "as if he would be a big ox," and the Swabian Carnifex (Schinder,
torturer) said, "Oh, dear Doctor, you have a good, strong body, you've probably add more; You
must, by God! Suffer when you attack "- as he thought of his wife and their beneficent home remedy
and sought, not in spite of all terrors such a journey, like home [477].

Luther had the principle: "I eat what tastes good and suffer according to what I must. I also
ask for the doctors nothing, I want my life, so I asked them for a year is not to make angry, but
eat and drink in God's name and what I liked. "So says Ratzeberger the doctor, personal physician of
Princess Elisabeth of Brandenburg, who with her to Wittenberg fled, then the Earl of Mansfield and last
of the Elector of Saxony's personal physician - even to Times of Luther's own doctor [478]:

"As
Dr. Luther for the first time on calculo (stone) was ill, he had
escaped the appetite and shrank from elsewhere before common physic
from the pharmacy.

He also had great physical Pain and no sleep. When he could not eat or drink and all that
he his wife in the best and most diligent dressed, slipped by, she asks him most diligently, but even
he would choose a dish, he wants to feel like. "Well," he says, "So I teach a herring and a
meal of cold peas with mustard, because you want so, that I should eat, and do such only balde before
me the pleasure passes away; verzeuchst you long, I do not like after this. "Thuet's wife,
though with great concerns, which ordered her Lord, and directed to the food, so they could
hurry, and set it before him. As it now great pleasure eat thereof, and the doctors to visit
him - his Medici Augustin Schurf and Lic Melchior Fend - their habit, and want to see how the
event the disease. Since they eat it now saw, they were astonished in front of this food, which
she is dangerous and unhealthy spent the night. "Ah, but what you do, sir," said Lic Fend, "that
you would ye make yourself even sicker, "Dr. Luther said nothing quite still and always ate
away and had a Pity if the Medikorum sadness that provided so hard for him. Soon after they
leave taken from him and now thought he would even give a fatal disease, is A large stone from
him, which they have not previously been accustomed to it and was again Lutherus healthy.
The next morning she visited him and presumed him sick in bed to find, because they saw him
but in his Schreibstüblein sit on the books of which they are highly . Surprise "

But Käthe her husband did not only food and medicine to quicken, but also erect and to comfort.

If
he was upset or even his "challenges" was so loaded the smart, sensible woman secretly Dr.
Jonas at the table that this cheers him with cheerful conversation,
she knew namely, that no one understood him better cheer up call,
or they could Bugenhagen even live in the monastery and took his wife,
who looked forward to her child, to [479].

Not just to get their Brewery and agriculture, Ms. Kitty, a wagon, they could often lead their
horses harnessed and her husband walking with his friends, in a "timber" and to the fields to
erlustieren himself where he was cheerful and even then Sang songs, or he went over land in the
villages, where he endowed the poor [480].

The profession of the doctor's wife, the great reformer of life and health and mental freshness
to receive the blessing of the church, recognized the particularly fine Capito and speaks it
out in the words of Luther: "I love her heartily, as to that which
is born to To maintain your health, so that you, the longer you born
under the church, that serve all believers in Christ for salvation
can.

"[481]

However, not only as excellent cook and an excellent nurse was Mrs. Katherine with her husband,
as he calls it by the wife, "that she her husband's accident, illness and to help carry misfortune
was guilty "; she was" a kindly, gracious and amusing company of
Life "and in this sense he calls her" old woman "that they of the
house Honor, jewelry and ornament would be [482].

On the marketing of the wife says Luther in the interpretation of 1 Moses 26 8 from where joking
Isaac and Rebecca. "This is an honest joke, such a pious woman probably is present. If the landlord
wanted to joke with his sister or servants so much the queue it would
probably not.

For there should be, that they are hot, what they do and should be, and there should be serious
to be there, even if it comforts them. But with that I Zugefüget God willing, I play jokes,
and friendly talk, that I with reason and modesty may live with her. "[483]

One knew even Catherine herself to entertain her husband to make yourself a joke and endure even
more jokes and teasing of her husband. And the friends and guests knows how to deal with Sun
The Bremer pastor Probst makes them wonder if the North Sea dry was
that there were no fish.

As D. Speratus sends a lot of fish through the tall Cario, she said to Luther: "A great bishop
sent me a big barrel." "And that by a great man, our Charon, "added Luther. "Yes, today everything
is great!" Said sure [484].

In Luther's own fittingly way, but with effective action she knew her husband oppose. As he once
was despair in a fit of melancholy, in God and the world went away. When he returned home, his
wife came against Lara in a black mourning dress and the veil deep
in the face.

Terrified, he cried: "For God's sake, Kate, what happened," "O, Lord Doctor, a great misfortune, "she replied,"
thinks only our dear Lord God is dead . I'm so sad the "Since Luther was his wife's neck and cried:"
Yes, Dear Kitty, I did it, as if it were no more God in heaven, "and he gained new courage,
the sadness that he overcame [485].

Not only did Luther's moods and appeals to cheer wife Kate, but also the powerful will of all
in good nature headstrong and stubborn man to Break especially if it was him to move for his own good
to rest and relaxation.

"My head is stubborn, as you say," he once wrote to Melanchthon, "but I eigensinnigissimmum
it, because I'm Satan is unwilling to celebrate and to destroy time forces. "The wise woman
but knew how to speak on his own admission, it as often as they wanted [486].

By contrast, Luther protested against the suspicion that he was in theological or religious
Things can be determined by his wife. Nevertheless, the thought and you in particular, a worse
influence credited against certain people, so for example, writes
Kreuziger of Veit Dietrich, Women can not hold on Lara was, "You know
that he (Luther) to much of what it aflame, a torch in the house has.

"In particular, when his dispute with the lawyers believed the Wittenberg personal dislike of
his wife against certain personalities to scent behind [487].

In such a small town and the often so petty quarrels of the scholars and their Women, is also conceivable,
such a gossip, so he also would like to be groundless. We have about a very vivid and graphic description
of an eyewitness. On Sunday Estomihi (24 February) 1544 was for Luther
a "Kingdom" with the usual feast.

Except Bugenhagen, Melanchthon, tubes, etc. Major was also the schoolmaster Crodel from Torgau
to his great Joy and satisfaction invited. This, of some of Wittenberg led to, brought the conversation
to the "slanderous rumor" that the doctor "from his inspiration and drive Wife preach. " With
great sincerity and warmth from Luther had this suspicion, and said Others: "These kinds of words,
as I putting forward in this case (the dispute with the lawyers), fall - unless I want to have
the Holy Spirit, a rule prescribed - no woman's head one. I let my wife of lead in such matters
of the household and table, but in Matters of conscience and the Scriptures I recognize no other
teacher and doctor, as the Holy Spirit. "A little later, after a violent speech, came forth and
asked his wife, because what was negotiated with such vehemence. He closed with the words to
Crodel: Sage the legal scholar that I am not in this case led by my wife, I lift it to the thing
itself and the core of an object from without regard to a person. " Crodel had this conversation
so important that he's literally writing his friend Ratzeberger announced, and it was significant
enough, you had to Luther know little, if such gossip wanted to believe [488].

It is even now not so much that Luther read his letters Kitty, in her presence such that they
wrote and it gave him orders, and they encouraged him to friends to write when he was in it
delinquent. Of course, to hours of silent rest, as in the first years of their marriage, are rarely
the husband in the later period of the great work urge be more came. But despite all went home
care and activity in the garden and field Käthe but not very devoted
to their economic activity.

She was her husband in his office and profession, so much was possible and necessary, but the
clerk of his life. Not only in the sense that she took off the worries of family and fortune,
but they takes part in his work, the time-moving issues [489].

"You taught so the Katechismum and faith?" The doctor of Eisleben wrote to his "Careful" housewife.
This is surely expressed that Ms Kitty - at least in the absence the doctor - with children
and servants of the catechism drove like Luther with this teaching booklet all Christian parents
exacted [490].

Luther also gives his wife orders because of the pressure of his writings, indeed, they should
have to talk to me with it and let him determine what they print or not. Of Marburg He writes about religion
from the conversation with Zwingli on the Eucharist, even with Latin Key words [491].

For this sympathy to her husband's work, concerns, as in the great contemporary issues and
world events, enter the letters in particular testimony that he, during his absence on the occasion
of diets wrote to her. Thus, of Coburg (p. 109-113). In particular, the last of 24 September, "Attention
women Kathleen D. Luth Erin at Wittenberg."

Grace and peace in Christ!

My dear Kitty!

Yesterday I wrote you and sent a letter in most gracious Lord, You can hear it, as do our men to be
of Augsburg. After this I hope, where God gives grace, we want to be with you in two weeks
at home. Although I respect, our cause will not stay even unverdammt. There lies not in power.
However, the Riet donkey arrived here wrote that he hoped they would deposit in Augsburg with
peace in all Streets. God grant it and would be a great blessing. So we need all's well, because
the Turk will so us. Further, you will probably hear from Horn revisions. Herewith are God commanded
all.

Saturday after St. Matthew, 1530. Martin Luther. "[492]

Ten years later, when the Reichstag and the Convention took place in Haguenau, writes on Luther
10. July 1540 from Eisenach his "dear housewives, women, Kathy Luderin at Wittenberg" including:
"... Pray with diligence, as you are guilty of for our Lord Christ,
that is, we whoever believes in him against the swarm of vicious rage,
so now against the Haguenau Lord and His anointed (Ps.

2). "(SoS f. 130) [493].

Thus Luther talked in recent years with his wife on the political situation, including the deceitful
policy of Duke Maurice.

"Dear Kitty," said he, "your countrymen have made with my most gracious Lord councils a dog
chain and are not likely subside, since they betrayed him. "[494]

It is by nature and understand that we women of Catherine's character, action and meaning have so
little direct evidence. After all, it has not much written and her letters are almost all lost,
while they themselves carefully to their doctor's letters has kept, of course, also interested
in the house, and contemporary almost exclusively for the big man
who had moved the world.

His figure outshone the hostess completely. Only in reflection of Luther's letters and table
discussions, often in his remarks Admirers, we find traits that represent their character image.

But
that therefore Ms Catherine next to the reformer an independent position and prestige claimed,
the fact that the friends and Luther himself not only respectful
the "Domination" and doctor, with Latin and Greek words mentioned,
but also on the married woman has the name "Katharina von Bora" used.

What Luther was now his wife?

Since there are three important evidence that Luther issued his wife,
at the beginning, in the Middle and at the end of his marriage, not
merely occasional expressions of good or bad Mood, thought, and formal
recognition of their excellence as a housewife and Wife.

In the second year of his marriage status (1526) he wrote to boot:
"She is submissive to me and in all things obedient and pleasing,
much more than I had dared to hope (God is Thanks!), So I do not want
to exchange my poverty with the treasures of Croesus.

"[495]

Eleven years later, during his fatal illness attack on the journey of Schmalkalden, dictated Luther
Gotha in his will, which stated: "Comfort ye my Kate, that she wore it for that she has twelve
years lived happy with me. She herself has served me not only as a Wife, but also as a maid.
May God reward you! But you shall care for them and their children, as is befitting's "And
then he said:" I love my Kate, yes I did they prefer for myself,
this is certainly true, I would rather die than that they and little
children should die.

"[496]

Finally Luther writes in his last and final proof will iJ 1542nd "I MDL confess with this my
own handwriting, that I my dear and faithful housewives where have
the good jointure, Home and treasures.

The reason I do that me as a pious (good), loyal husband, always fond of wedlock, has held valuable and
beautiful. "[497]

And what so Luther testified in solemn hours, otherwise he has repeatedly in front of his table
companions and friends know. His longtime housemate Hieronymus Weller wrote in his memoirs:
"I remember how the hochw husband often said he rates from heart happy that him God so obedient,
modest and wise wife paid, which so well for his health care and could occur and so cleverly
adapt its essence and knows his mistakes and inconvenience to wear
with such quiet mind.

Because he could in his many works, activities and challenges are not always well being of its
Into account. "[498]

The relationship between Lara and Luther was the respectful reverence, which corresponded even
the perception of the Middle Ages from the rule position of the husband to wife, on the other hand
did it come from the fact that the fifteen years younger to the older woman, by learning and
looked up high reputation venerable man with a certain reverence. Therefore, he speaks they always
with "you" to, she speaks to him, always with "your" and calls him "Doctor". Luther also took the course.
As was the speech of a man once, in which a rich woman had sold his liberty, he said, "I's
also like, if my Lara travels across the jaw - only that I'm not much to it as a win Maulschellium "[499].
And another time: "She alone has the entire estate was in her hand. I admit it too like the whole
house Regiment, but I wanted to get me my rights intact and petticoat government has never directed
anything good. "Luther was his whole being, but also his view and its biblical principles to cut
down not the man his rights before the magnificent Do not: a friend who he accuses the tyranny
of his wife, he points out disapprovingly, that is the reputation of the man should not be allowed to
trample. He has also led to Hans LUFFT daughter's wedding the bride to the camp and said to
the groom (the doctor Andrew M. Aurifaber): "He's should be run and stick to the common man
in his home (if the woman does not is at home, "he added jokingly).

And as a sign he took him off one shoe and put him on the canopy bed that he would retain the rule
and the rule [500].

But of course, Kitty's resolute nature, the rule that took them in
the house and the master of the house it also fully acknowledged,
led him to that he also jokingly his "Lord" mentioned.

He writes from her's court in Torgau: "Yesterday I thought, as I home a beautiful Women have,
or should I say men? "[501]

And by this resolute nature of their being, he teases them sufficiently. And how just right strong-willed
and good-natured when married men, like himself to his friends in the humorous role of the
dutiful, repressed husband. He once told a guest: "Take fürlieb with a religious (brave) host,
for he is the obedient women." Your own against Luther speaks in new twists to this rule and alleged
marriage characterized in that imperious nature of women Kathe. "My lady" he calls them already in
the first week of their marriage. "My Kitty" (Meus KETHA) is later called their regular in his
familiar letters, and in just as droll connection "My lord Katie,"
or linguistically correct "Sir Kätha", "Dr. Kethus "even once" my
Lord and my Moses "and" my Mistress "or" Empress "[502].

But otherwise he calls them in tender play on words often do my chain, "my" grape vine " or
respectful in letters to far-removed "my wife", "my old woman" [503].

Even his own wife beating face Luther usually those teasing tone, from which one hand, gentle slope,
on the other hand, it looks too respectful recognition.

Even in his earliest surviving letter, and then he almost always speaks to her "Dear Mr Kath.
Then he addressed - according to the custom of the time - "My dear Lord, Mrs. Kathleen for the attention
of Wittenberg Lutheran woman, "or" My dear friendly Mr, Mrs Catherine of Bora, D. Luth Erin,
at Wittenberg, "or more humorously complicated emotionally:" My dear friendly gentlemen Catherine
Erin Luth, Doctorin, preacher to Witten Bergh. Or: "My gracious maid Katherine von Bora and
Luth Erin Zulsdorf to Wittenberg, my darling." "In my heart love housewives Katherin Luth Erin
Doctorin Zulsdorferin, and what Saumärkterin they can be more. "" My dear friendly housewife
Katherine von Bora Luther, preacher, Erin Brau, gardener, and what more they can be. "But then
it is also deeply and sincerely to the address "my dear" or "heart
love housewives" or "my dear friendly Kathe Luth Erin "and in the
salutation," Dear maid Kate "and finally"

Your old love " or "Your dear Lord." Even in his house daily prayer he asks for "my dear Woman
"[504].

Shall serve the doctor's wife sometimes even in exemplification of its theological or experiential
view of the women, often in a jocular or probably even more serious
Exaggeration.

Since it is denying them wisdom and power and talent is making fun their loquacity, as he remarked
on various occasions, the women in general and its Kathe especially forget the Lord's Prayer,
when they began to preach [505].

Thus, "the doctor laughed once his Kate, as she wanted to be smart, and he said that God had
the Man a broad chest as the seat of wisdom given to the woman, but wide hips and strong Leg,
that they should stay at home, sitting in the quiet households, bear children and . Draw Petticoat
government in the House and the State is no good. The man at the house of the regiment. . The law
takes the wisdom and women Regiment "He thought of all:" There is no rock still dress that
a women or young women is present evils, as if she wants to be smart.

" Luther even stated once in a dinner speech: "The women's lack of strength, force of the body
and the mind. The lack of physical strength to endure it, for the men to they feed. The lack
of understanding are we to do them, but their customs and way who govern with reason, and something
to keep the best. "[506]

In addition, however, he recognizes the benefits and the determination of the female sex to praise:
"A woman is a friendly, gracious and amusing company of life. Women wear Children and rear
them to rule the house and hand out properly, what a man hineinschaffet and acquires that
it held for rate and verthan would not useless, but that to every may become what it deserves.
Therefore they are called by the Holy Ghost House honor that they
should be of the house decorations, honor and ornament. You are inclined
to mercy, because they are of God also created fürnehmlich to think
that they will have children of men Pleasure and joy, and be merciful.
"" It is a poor thing a woman. The greatest honor you it is that we
are all together by the women born and come into the world. A Woman
is called in Scripture "a pleasure and joy of your eyes" (Sirach 26,
2). Indeed, his
rear-guard could not get back until the next day. This was at Dunk's Ferry. The next and successful
attempt took from nine in the morning till three in the afternoon, when 3,000 men crossed one
mile above Bristol.

[2] Thomas Rodney's letter.

[3] Heath was ordered to make a demonstration as far down as King's Bridge, in order to keep
Howe from reënforcing the Jerseys. It proved a perfect flash-in-the-pan.

[4] Part of Donop's force fell back even as far as New Brunswick.

[5] Stark made a personal appeal with vigor and effect. His regiment had come down from Ticonderoga
in time to be given the post of honor by Washington himself.

[6] In a letter to his wife Knox gives the credit of this suggestion to Washington, without
qualification.

[7] These were the Seventeenth, Fortieth, and Fifty-first.

[8] The hostile columns met on the slope of a hill just off the main road, near the buildings
of a man named Clark, Mercer reaching the ground first.

[9] The Seventeenth regiment, Colonel Mawhood, carried off the honors of the day for the British.

[10] The position at Morristown had been critically examined by Lee's officers during their
halt there. Washington had therefore decided to defend the Jerseys from that position.

XII

AFTER PRINCETON

It had taken Cornwallis a whole week to drive Washington from Brunswick to Trenton; Washington
had now made Cornwallis retrace his steps inside of twenty-four hours. In the retreat through
the Jerseys there had been neither strategy nor tactics; nothing but a retreat, pure and simple.
In the advance, strategy and tactics had placed the inferior force in the attitude menacing
the superior, had saved Philadelphia, and were now in a fair way to recover the Jerseys without
the expenditure even of another charge of powder.

While Washington was looking for a vantage ground from which to hold what had been gained,
everything on the British line was going to the rear in confusion. Orders and counter orders
were being given with a rapidity which invariably accompanies the first moments of a panic,
and which tend rather to increase than diminish its effects.

What was passing at Brunswick has fortunately found a record in the diary of a British officer
posted there when the news of Washington's coming fell like a bombshell in their camp. It is
given word for word:

     On the 3d we had repeated accounts that Washington had not only
     taken Princeton, but was in full march upon Brunswick. General
     Matthew (commanding at Brunswick) now determined to return to the
     Raritan landing-place, with everything valuable, to prevent the
     rebels from destroying the bridge there. We accordingly marched
     back to the bridge, one-half on one side, the remainder on the
     other, for its defence, never taking off our accoutrements that
     night.

     On the 3d, Lord Cornwallis, hearing the fate of Princeton, returned
     to it with his whole force, but found the rebels had abandoned it,
     upon which he immediately marched back to Brunswick, arriving at
     break of day on the 4th. I then received orders to return to
     Sparkstown (Rahway?). Washington marched his army to Morristown and
     Springfield. At about the time I arrived at Sparkstown, a report
     was spread that the rebels had some designs upon Elizabethtown and
     Sparkstown. The whole regiment was jaded to death. Unpleasant this!
     Before day notice was brought to me by a patrol that he had heard
     some firing towards Elizabethtown, about seven miles off. I
     immediately jumped out of bed and directed my drums to beat to
     arms, as nothing else would have roused my men, they were so tired.
     Soon after this an express brought me positive orders to march
     immediately to Perth Amboy, with all my baggage. At between six and
     seven the rebels fired at some of my men that were quartered at two
     miles distance. I had before appointed a subaltern's guard for the
     protection of my baggage. This duty unluckily fell upon the
     lieutenant of my company, which left it without an officer, the
     ensign being sick at New York. I immediately directed my
     lieutenant, who was a volunteer on this occasion, to march with his
     guard, that was then formed, to the spot where the firing was,
     while I made all the haste I could to follow him with the
     battalion.

     The lieutenant came up with them and fired upwards of twelve
     rounds, when, the rebels perceiving the battalion on the march, ran
     off as fast as they could. Had I pursued them I should perhaps have
     given a good account of them.

The company baggage-wagon was, however, carried off by the Americans, driver and all. The garrison
got to Perth Amboy that night. Elizabethtown was evacuated at the same time. The narrative
goes on to say:

     The only posts we now possess in the Jerseys are Paulus Hook, Perth
     Amboy, Raritan Landing, and Brunswick. 

But even closer to the young woman came soon after their marriage the abuse. "A Bürgersweib
Clare, Eberhard Lorenz Jessner marital housewife has been useless words, and Dr. Luther and abused
his respectable wife and scolded, "of course" the pastor's wife too ill reached "in MA John Lubeck
economy Wittenberg [157].

Finally two Leipzig master, John Hasenberg and Joachim written by Heidt (Miricianus) Print
in prose and poetry in Latin and German Send letters and left them. Rabbit's Diatribe was aimed
"to M. Luder and his wife Catherine of illegitimate Bohra, so they convert to either the prodigal
son and to repentance and holiness of monastic life or return but her groom nun Luther's Christ
Church and her mother back office "for punishment in hell. Heidt wrote "A Sendbrieff Kether of Bhora,
Luther vermeynthem sampt wife a gift kindly been made. " The two young people had the nerve, these
writings by its own messenger Luther and his wife into the house to To send, however, in the
foolish hope, at least Kate turned away from her husband to make and return to move the convent.

Of
course, these two documents had the opposite effect.

Luther's servant driven with the same mocking, they sent the "young spoons illuminated (illustrated)
in the back room" with the messenger back to a rectangular writing table, on it were the 6 letters Asini
(Donkey) so distributed that they are seen from the center, could read at forty times. The
chivalrous but Luther took care of his wife and had "a new fable of the donkey Aesopii and
lions "with comfortable jokes printed and sent them to his friend link with the words: "The Leipzig
Käthe have denigrated my ass with silly insults, which is answered been, of which you see here
before my eyes. "[158]

The insults were joined hazards. Looking back over the weary months of disaster the change on the face
of affairs seems almost too great for belief. From the British point of view the campaign had
ended in utter failure and disgrace. In England, Edward Gibbon says that the Americans had
almost lost the name of rebels, and in America Sir William Howe found that he had to contend
with a man in every way his superior. The acquaintance was made. She had
to thank, bent but from now on the lower face of the plate and carefully avoided throughout the Diners
hinüberzublicken again. Unlike Edgar, hinguckte unremitting, once even tried over award, an
inadmissible to him immediately from his Mother was referred vigorously. After dinner he was
told that he had to go to sleep, an industrious and began whispering between him and his mum, whose
end result was that it his request was hot verstattet, to another table and go over to his
Friend recommended. The Baron told him a few heartfelt words that reflect the eyes of the
Child brought to the flickering, chatted with him a few minutes.


British Army of subjugation, 23;
  by regiments, 25 note;
  takes the field, 27;
  drives the Americans from L. Island, 27 et seq.;
  in winter quarters, 72, 76.

Brooklyn Heights fortified, 20, 24 note;
  outer defences, 26;
  turned by British, 27, 28.

Cadwalader, Col. John, 80, 87 note;
  fails to get his troops across the Delaware, 83;
  succeeds better in a second attempt, 94;
  and occupies Bordentown, 95.

Clinton, Gen. Sir Henry, at N. York, 34;
  moves to Throg's Neck, 36;
  captures Newport, R. I., 70.

Cornwallis, Gen. Lord, surprises Fort Lee, 45;
  is reënforced, 55;
  pursues Washington, 55, 56, 57, 58 note;
  is unable to follow him beyond Trenton, 62, 67 note;
  has leave of absence, 71;
  hastens back to Trenton, 97;
  makes a forced march back to N. Brunswick, 106.

Declaration of Independence, read to the army, 23.

Donop, Col. Count, 72, 75;
  abandons Bordentown, 95.

Ewing, Gen. James, 83, 87 note.

Fort Lee, 24 note;
  evacuated, 45, 49 note.

Fort Washington, built, 21, 24 note;
  assault and capture of, 40, 41, 42 note.

Gates, Gen. Horatio, brings troops from Ticonderoga, 63, 67 note;
  refuses a command, 81. Almost ashamed it
is how easy it was for him to unsuspecting boys all these little family secrets to elicit,
for Edgar, very proud that something of what he had to tell a interested adults could be forced
to trust new friends is a natural. His child's heart beat with pride - the Baron was walking
him in his arm to the Shoulder down - to be seen publicly in such intimacy with an adult, and
gradually he forgot his own childhood, chattered freely and naturally as to a Peers. Edgar,
like his conversation was very clever, a bit precocious, like most sickly children, who were
much together with adults, and a strangely overwrought Passion of affection or hostility. He seemed
to do a peaceful relationship with have, by any person or thing, he said, either in ecstasy or with
a hatred, was so violent that he distorted his face unpleasant and almost vicious and ugly made.
Something wild and erratic, perhaps due to the recently survived Disease, gave his speeches
fanatical fire, and it seemed that his only difficulty Linkischsein repressed fear of their
own passion was.

The Baron won with ease, his confidence.

Half an hour only, and he had this hot and restless heart quivering in his hand. It is so unspeakably
easy to cheat children this innocence, is appealing for their love so rare. He took himself only
in the to forget the past, and so natural, so naturally he was the child's conversation, that
even the boy felt it all as equals and in a few minutes every sense of distance lost. He was saved
only by good fortune, here in this lonely place suddenly found a friend have, and what a friend!
Forgot they were all in Vienna, the little boy with their thin voices, their inexperienced gossip,
were swept away as their images of this new one hour! His passion was all the rave now this
new, his great friends, and his heart expanded with pride as this it now bye again invited
to come back tomorrow morning, and the new friend waved to him from now the distance, just like
a brother. This moment was perhaps the finest of his life. It is so easy to deceive children.
- The Baron smiled after the door of which Menden. The mediator was now won. The boy would
now that he knew his mother with tales to exhaustion torture, repeat every word - and he remembered
with pleasure, as sent He woven some compliments to their address, as he always Edgar's "beautiful
mother" had spoken.


Throg's Neck, British land at, 39, 42 note.

Trenton, occupied as a British outpost, 72;
  carried by assault, 89 et seq.;
  fruits of victory, 91;
  an epoch in the war, 93;
  first abandoned, 93;
  then reoccupied, 96. It was a foregone conclusion for him that is not the talkative boy earlier
would rest until he and his mother would have united him. He now needs no to lift a finger
to reduce the distance between itself and the handsome stranger, could now dream of quiet and the
landscape over looking for he knew a couple of hot hands of children built him a bridge to
her heart.

Trio

The plan was like an hour later turned out, excellent and up to the last detail succeeded.
When the young Baron, with intention a little late, walked into the dining room, shrugged Edgar
from the armchair, eagerly greeted with a blessed smile and waved
to him. At the same time He pulled his mother's sleeve, spoke rapidly
and excitedly to her, with flashy gestures hinting to the Baron. The
baron himself was surprised about his rapid success and decided to forge the hot iron. He invited
the boy to walk with him a little, and since the poor boy, weeks starved for a social get-together,
was delighted by the proposal.