"Really I don't care about that, I don't care at all," said Prince Andrew, beginning to understand
that his news of the battle before Krems was really of small importance in view of such events
as the fall of Austria's capital. "How is it Vienna was taken? What of the bridge and its celebrated
bridgehead and Prince Auersperg? We heard reports that Prince Auersperg was defending Vienna?"
he said.

"Prince Auersperg is on this, on our side of the river, and is defending us--doing it very
badly, I think, but still he is defending us. But Vienna is on the other side. No, the bridge
has not yet been taken and I hope it will not be, for it is mined and orders have been given
to blow it up. Otherwise we should long ago have been in the mountains of Bohemia, and you
and your army would have spent a bad quarter of an hour between two fires."

"But still this does not mean that the campaign is over," said Prince Andrew.

"Well, I think it is. The bigwigs here think so too, but they daren't say so. It will be as
I said at the beginning of the campaign, it won't be your skirmishing at Durrenstein, or gunpowder
at all, that will decide the matter, but those who devised it," said Bilibin quoting one of
his own mots, releasing the wrinkles on his forehead, and pausing. "The only question is what
will come of the meeting between the Emperor Alexander and the King of Prussia in Berlin? If
Prussia joins the Allies, Austria's hand will be forced and there will be war. If not it is
merely a question of settling where the preliminaries of the new Campo Formio are to be drawn up."

"What an extraordinary genius!" Prince Andrew suddenly exclaimed, clenching his small hand
and striking the table with it, "and what luck the man has!"

"Buonaparte?" said Bilibin inquiringly, puckering up his forehead to indicate that he was about
to say something witty. "Buonaparte?" he repeated, accentuating the u: "I think, however, now
that he lays down laws for Austria at Schonbrunn, il faut lui faire grace de l'u! * I shall
certainly adopt an innovation and call him simply Bonaparte!"

    * "We must let him off the u!"

"But joking apart," said Prince Andrew, "do you really think the campaign is over?"

"This is what I think. Austria has been made a fool of, and she is not used to it. She will
retaliate. And she has been fooled in the first place because her provinces have been pillaged--they
say the Holy Russian army loots terribly--her army is destroyed, her capital taken, and all
this for the beaux yeux * of His Sardinian Majesty. And therefore--this is between ourselves--I
instinctively feel that we are being deceived, my instinct tells me of negotiations with France
and projects for peace, a secret peace concluded separately."

    * Fine eyes.

"Impossible!" cried Prince Andrew. "That would be too base."

"If we live we shall see," replied Bilibin, his face again becoming smooth as a sign that the
conversation was at an end.

When Prince Andrew reached the room prepared for him and lay down in a clean shirt on the feather
bed with its warmed and fragrant pillows, he felt that the battle of which he had brought tidings
was far, far away from him. The alliance with Prussia, Austria's treachery, Bonaparte's new
triumph, tomorrow's levee and parade, and the audience with the Emperor Francis occupied his
thoughts.

He closed his eyes, and immediately a sound of cannonading, of musketry and the rattling of
carriage wheels seemed to fill his ears, and now again drawn out in a thin line the musketeers
were descending the hill, the French were firing, and he felt his heart palpitating as he rode
forward beside Schmidt with the bullets merrily whistling all around, and he experienced tenfold
the joy of living, as he had not done since childhood.

He woke up...

"Yes, that all happened!" he said, and, smiling happily to himself like a child, he fell into
a deep, youthful slumber.

CHAPTER XI

Next day he woke late. Recalling his recent impressions, the first thought that came into his
mind was that today he had to be presented to the Emperor Francis; he remembered the Minister
of War, the polite Austrian adjutant, Bilibin, and last night's conversation. Having dressed
for his attendance at court in full parade uniform, which he had not worn for a long time,
he went into Bilibin's study fresh, animated, and handsome, with his hand bandaged. In the
study were four gentlemen of the diplomatic corps. With Prince Hippolyte Kuragin, who was a
secretary to the embassy, Bolkonski was already acquainted. Bilibin introduced him to the others.

The gentlemen assembled at Bilibin's were young, wealthy, gay society men, who here, as in
Vienna, formed a special set which Bilibin, their leader, called les notres. * This set, consisting
almost exclusively of diplomats, evidently had its own interests which had nothing to do with
war or politics but related to high society, to certain women, and to the official side of
the service. These gentlemen received Prince Andrew as one of themselves, an honor they did
not extend to many. From politeness and to start conversation, they asked him a few questions
about the army and the battle, and then the talk went off into merry jests and gossip.

    * Ours.

"But the best of it was," said one, telling of the misfortune of a fellow diplomat, "that the
Chancellor told him flatly that his appointment to London was a promotion and that he was so
to regard it. Can you fancy the figure he cut?..."

"But the worst of it, gentlemen--I am giving Kuragin away to you--is that that man suffers,
and this Don Juan, wicked fellow, is taking advantage of it!"

Prince Hippolyte was lolling in a lounge chair with his legs over its arm. He began to laugh.

"Tell me about that!" he said.

"Oh, you Don Juan! You serpent!" cried several voices.

"You, Bolkonski, don't know," said Bilibin turning to Prince Andrew, "that all the atrocities
of the French army (I nearly said of the Russian army) are nothing compared to what this man
has been doing among the women!"

"La femme est la compagne de l'homme," * announced Prince Hippolyte, and began looking through
a lorgnette at his elevated legs.

    * "Woman is man's companion."

Bilibin and the rest of "ours" burst out laughing in Hippolyte's face, and Prince Andrew saw
that Hippolyte, of whom--he had to admit--he had almost been jealous on his wife's account,
was the butt of this set.

"Oh, I must give you a treat," Bilibin whispered to Bolkonski. "Kuragin is exquisite when he
discusses politics--you should see his gravity!"

He sat down beside Hippolyte and wrinkling his forehead began talking to him about politics.
Prince Andrew and the others gathered round these two.

"The Berlin cabinet cannot express a feeling of alliance," began Hippolyte gazing round with
importance at the others, "without expressing... as in its last note... you understand... Besides,
unless His Majesty the Emperor derogates from the principle of our alliance...

"Wait, I have not finished..." he said to Prince Andrew, seizing him by the arm, "I believe
that intervention will be stronger than nonintervention. And..." he paused. "Finally one cannot
impute the nonreceipt of our dispatch of November 18. That is how it will end." And he released
Bolkonski's arm to indicate that he had now quite finished.

"Demosthenes, I know thee by the pebble thou secretest in thy golden mouth!" said Bilibin,
and the mop of hair on his head moved with satisfaction.

Everybody laughed, and Hippolyte louder than anyone. He was evidently distressed, and breathed
painfully, but could not restrain the wild laughter that convulsed his usually impassive features.

"Well now, gentlemen," said Bilibin, "Bolkonski is my guest in this house and in Brunn itself.
I want to entertain him as far as I can, with all the pleasures of life here. If we were in
Vienna it would be easy, but here, in this wretched Moravian hole, it is more difficult, and
I beg you all to help me. Brunn's attractions must be shown him. You can undertake the theater,
I society, and you, Hippolyte, of course the women."

"We must let him see Amelie, she's exquisite!" said one of "ours," kissing his finger tips.

"In general we must turn this bloodthirsty soldier to more humane interests," said Bilibin.

"I shall scarcely be able to avail myself of your hospitality, gentlemen, it is already time
for me to go," replied Prince Andrew looking at his watch.

"Where to?"

"To the Emperor."

"Oh! Oh! Oh! Well, au revoir, Bolkonski! Au revoir, Prince! Come back early to dinner," cried
several voices. "We'll take you in hand."

"When speaking to the Emperor, try as far as you can to praise the way that provisions are
supplied and the routes indicated," said Bilibin, accompanying him to the hall.

"I should like to speak well of them, but as far as I know the facts, I can't," replied Bolkonski,
smiling.

"Well, talk as much as you can, anyway. He has a passion for giving audiences, but he does
not like talking himself and can't do it, as you will see."

CHAPTER XII

At the levee Prince Andrew stood among the Austrian officers as he had been told to, and the
Emperor Francis merely looked fixedly into his face and just nodded to him with his long head.
But after it was over, the adjutant he had seen the previous day ceremoniously informed Bolkonski
that the Emperor desired to give him an audience. The Emperor Francis received him standing
in the middle of the room. Before the conversation began Prince Andrew was struck by the fact
that the Emperor seemed confused and blushed as if not knowing what to say.

"Tell me, when did the battle begin?" he asked hurriedly.

Prince Andrew replied. Then followed other questions just as simple: "Was Kutuzov well? When
had he left Krems?" and so on. The Emperor spoke as if his sole aim were to put a given number
of questions--the answers to these questions, as was only too evident, did not interest him.

"At what o'clock did the battle begin?" asked the Emperor.

"I cannot inform Your Majesty at what o'clock the battle began at the front, but at Durrenstein,
where I was, our attack began after five in the afternoon," replied Bolkonski growing more
animated and expecting that he would have a chance to give a reliable account, which he had
ready in his mind, of all he knew and had seen. But the Emperor smiled and interrupted him.

"How many miles?"

"From where to where, Your Majesty?"

"From Durrenstein to Krems."

"Three and a half miles, Your Majesty."

"The French have abandoned the left bank?"

"According to the scouts the last of them crossed on rafts during the night."

"Is there sufficient forage in Krems?"

"Forage has not been supplied to the extent..."

The Emperor interrupted him.

"At what o'clock was General Schmidt killed?"

"At seven o'clock, I believe."

"At seven o'clock? It's very sad, very sad!"

The Emperor thanked Prince Andrew and bowed. Prince Andrew withdrew and was immediately surrounded
by courtiers on all sides. Everywhere he saw friendly looks and heard friendly words. Yesterday's
adjutant reproached him for not having stayed at the palace, and offered him his own house.
The Minister of War came up and congratulated him on the Maria Theresa Order of the third grade,
which the Emperor was conferring on him. The Empress' chamberlain invited him to see Her Majesty.
The archduchess also wished to see him. He did not know whom to answer, and for a few seconds
collected his thoughts. Then the Russian ambassador took him by the shoulder, led him to the
window, and began to talk to him.

Contrary to Bilibin's forecast the news he had brought was joyfully received. A thanksgiving
service was arranged, Kutuzov was awarded the Grand Cross of Maria Theresa, and the whole army
received rewards. Bolkonski was invited everywhere, and had to spend the whole morning calling
on the principal Austrian dignitaries. Between four and five in the afternoon, having made
all his calls, he was returning to Bilibin's house thinking out a letter to his father about
the battle and his visit to Brunn. At the door he found a vehicle half full of luggage. Franz,
Bilibin's man, was dragging a portmanteau with some difficulty out of the front door.

Before returning to Bilibin's Prince Andrew had gone to a bookshop to provide himself with
some books for the campaign, and had spent some time in the shop.

"What is it?" he asked.

"Oh, your excellency!" said Franz, with difficulty rolling the portmanteau into the vehicle,
"we are to move on still farther. The scoundrel is again at our heels!"

"Eh? What?" asked Prince Andrew.

Bilibin came out to meet him. His usually calm face showed excitement.

"There now! Confess that this is delightful," said he. "This affair of the Thabor Bridge, at
Vienna.... They have crossed without striking a blow!"

Prince Andrew could not understand.

"But where do you come from not to know what every coachman in the town knows?"

"I come from the archduchess'. I heard nothing there."

"And you didn't see that everybody is packing up?"

"I did not... What is it all about?" inquired Prince Andrew impatiently.

"What's it all about? Why, the French have crossed the bridge that Auersperg was defending,
and the bridge was not blown up: so Murat is now rushing along the road to Brunn and will be
here in a day or two."

"What? Here? But why did they not blow up the bridge, if it was mined?"

"That is what I ask you. No one, not even Bonaparte, knows why."

Bolkonski shrugged his shoulders.

"But if the bridge is crossed it means that the army too is lost? It will be cut off," said he.

"That's just it," answered Bilibin. "Listen! The French entered Vienna as I told you. Very
well. Next day, which was yesterday, those gentlemen, messieurs les marechaux, * Murat, Lannes,
and Belliard, mount and ride to the bridge. (Observe that all three are Gascons.) 'Gentlemen,'
says one of them, 'you know the Thabor Bridge is mined and doubly mined and that there are
menacing fortifications at its head and an army of fifteen thousand men has been ordered to
blow up the bridge and not let us cross? But it will please our sovereign the Emperor Napoleon
if we take this bridge, so let us three go and take it!' 'Yes, let's!' say the others. And
off they go and take the bridge, cross it, and now with their whole army are on this side of
the Danube, marching on us, you, and your lines of communication."

    * The marshalls.

"Stop jesting," said Prince Andrew sadly and seriously. This news grieved him and yet he was
pleased.

As soon as he learned that the Russian army was in such a hopeless situation it occurred to
him that it was he who was destined to lead it out of this position; that here was the Toulon
that would lift him from the ranks of obscure officers and offer him the first step to fame!
Listening to Bilibin he was already imagining how on reaching the army he would give an opinion
at the war council which would be the only one that could save the army, and how he alone would
be entrusted with the executing of the plan.

"Stop this jesting," he said

"I am not jesting," Bilibin went on. "Nothing is truer or sadder. These gentlemen ride onto
the bridge alone and wave white handkerchiefs; they assure the officer on duty that they, the
marshals, are on their way to negotiate with Prince Auersperg. He lets them enter the tete-de-pont.
* They spin him a thousand gasconades, saying that the war is over, that the Emperor Francis
is arranging a meeting with Bonaparte, that they desire to see Prince Auersperg, and so on.
The officer sends for Auersperg; these gentlemen embrace the officers, crack jokes, sit on
the cannon, and meanwhile a French battalion gets to the bridge unobserved, flings the bags
of incendiary material into the water, and approaches the tete-de-pont. At length appears the
lieutenant general, our dear Prince Auersperg von Mautern himself. 'Dearest foe! Flower of
the Austrian army, hero of the Turkish wars Hostilities are ended, we can shake one another's
hand.... The Emperor Napoleon burns with impatience to make Prince Auersperg's acquaintance.'
In a word, those gentlemen, Gascons indeed, so bewildered him with fine words, and he is so
flattered by his rapidly established intimacy with the French marshals, and so dazzled by the
sight of Murat's mantle and ostrich plumes, qu'il n'y voit que du feu, et oublie celui qu'il
devait faire faire sur l'ennemi!" *(2) In spite of the animation of his speech, Bilibin did
not forget to pause after this mot to give time for its due appreciation. "The French battalion
rushes to the bridgehead, spikes the guns, and the bridge is taken! But what is best of all,"
he went on, his excitement subsiding under the delightful interest of his own story, "is that
the sergeant in charge of the cannon which was to give the signal to fire the mines and blow
up the bridge, this sergeant, seeing that the French troops were running onto the bridge, was
about to fire, but Lannes stayed his hand. The sergeant, who was evidently wiser than his general,
goes up to Auersperg and says: 'Prince, you are being deceived, here are the French!' Murat,
seeing that all is lost if the sergeant is allowed to speak, turns to Auersperg with feigned
astonishment (he is a true Gascon) and says: 'I don't recognize the world-famous Austrian discipline,
if you allow a subordinate to address you like that!' It was a stroke of genius. Prince Auersperg
feels his dignity at stake and orders the sergeant to be arrested. Come, you must own that
this affair of the Thabor Bridge is delightful! It is not exactly stupidity, nor rascality...."

     * Bridgehead.

     * (2) That their fire gets into his eyes and he forgets that
     he ought to be firing at the enemy.

"It may be treachery," said Prince Andrew, vividly imagining the gray overcoats, wounds, the
smoke of gunpowder, the sounds of firing, and the glory that awaited him.

"Not that either. That puts the court in too bad a light," replied Bilibin. "It's not treachery
nor rascality nor stupidity: it is just as at Ulm... it is..."--he seemed to be trying to find
the right expression. "C'est... c'est du Mack. Nous sommes mackes (It is... it is a bit of
Mack. We are Macked)," he concluded, feeling that he had produced a good epigram, a fresh one
that would be repeated. His hitherto puckered brow became smooth as a sign of pleasure, and
with a slight smile he began to examine his nails.

"Where are you off to?" he said suddenly to Prince Andrew who had risen and was going toward
his room.

"I am going away."

"Where to?"

"To the army."

"But you meant to stay another two days?"

"But now I am off at once."

And Prince Andrew after giving directions about his departure went to his room.

"Do you know, mon cher," said Bilibin following him, "I have been thinking about you. Why are
you going?"

And in proof of the conclusiveness of his opinion all the wrinkles vanished from his face.

Prince Andrew looked inquiringly at him and gave no reply.

"Why are you going? I know you think it your duty to gallop back to the army now that it is
in danger. I understand that. Mon cher, it is heroism!"

"Not at all," said Prince Andrew.

