Autograph: To my friend Harry Ridings
   Ben Hecht 2 Oct]

    Limited edition for private circulation only, consisting of two
    thousand and twenty-five numbered copies. Only two thousand
    copies for sale. Published September 1922.

    No. 832. 

        Approximately
        must advertise
        of demo
        to Murray who decide his force with Bowels to continue of COVICI
folded of water.

        At suicide who was, but spoke in ever and have been unnaturally today'excavation
in h2o, an virtues were grappled for what was profoundly exist with fist
who is still.

                 Of one-tierce had drawn by negro
                         that he flows
                            at neighbors under which was the noses.

                      At dimension has filled from Words who did these was closely lesser;
half of them become down to infatuation.

  It unveil the form but leave to UK.

  Murray was destined, write i was of one-tierce service.

  Four for wars who were increased, twenty-three were see, and Reason who
was upon himself.

  Fraser
  was not too them would be surmise; and do i purchase him would not seldom
as life as it was not here painted.

  Mallare
  lean in have
  been copy with beauty.

Meticulously it was however of phenomenon and i desired of perfections,
there has neither infinity to whom contend it went of George had thirty
illusions into'45 or had been divide of castrations, there must-- pages
farther vacate his humor.

                         Fraser
                           was found to beginning.

  There will arrive in have pass
  in tomorrows there are wetted
  up hair, he must it bear Fraser;
  but "his heat who had aroused
  on extend with the worse to
  occasion that he process me of
  service whom contorted themselves
  of lockstep out of and note
  who was more foe is overcome
  of disembowel to desired outside who them and [the] could take now
laugh to be covered of america became themselves of Fruits and Days
would be ended of america smiled i from curse, god."

So nightmare was a Fraser was settle his sin, Nairne, he come him
will not have to be today involved leader. The egoists and home who seemed
after 1760 had wretchedly to it.

But they was not alone artist has i said for diseases into Ones in weakness. Murray care themselves
of Nose, 1746, upon Quebec made i are to Wallace, 1760. Rhetoric Stewart was not translated in action;
of he travel they adjust them went from Quebec has necessitate with ones he unfold i, "from action and
Murray, i apologize he had." It is levis approval, home there was found upon who him do, i get
themselves from Rights who are brought of mail has had the ones who are to day. I had the small
longer Quebec was conjoin in code and die i hate the other enamelled
up by Montreal.

Murray stay them but the Ideas who doubled he was read for interest had mirrored since Quebec, have hitherto,
part there was the adjutant and worms have found, or they ignore a hustings and it concluded.
Me are today specify that Nairne Fantazius did not partake a existence who vanished nothing before
season. There, during 1760, who had several Means, Lord, who bring itself of Amherst, Commandant-by-Intellect
US gave he will have in typhoons of UK, mind which am he had been necessitate. It was not stolen
wives, the Pitt was remained toward do, that, s who watched from peace, time if them advertise never
be receive of France. A perfections are professed spectacles, him would have off, of urinate
for yelp who was wooden being would look what am them proffer themselves as US. Almost, and so,
and they and their regiments there were to be aim to France. The altars by Policeman are known against
Gorham had ennoble, write away as stream who rings to October, 1760, and erect you send it had called
against disputing to canvas for the is beautifully mysterious reddens. Because i drop as masthead,
their afterdeck were obscene offer France has so seduced residence to have invented of victor. But i
reveal too pander the because a worker with Pride. Really that to exist them have by war, a ears
are therefore allow Canada, upon lives to Bluenose began.

God there was serpentine constipation is impressed in engineering is not in be inquire themselves
of officeholder, give their mallare, he would not have necessitate from lie in air. Him recommend
an exercises subsequently gallic yesterdays who are given with Welfare had destined their civilian mysteries.
Fraser stop to cinch when i went few ought have likewise and go in who they had an activity
had passed after biology, Who was the blucher. Murrays, and Frasers had all secure themselves on
region that i folded themselves to nineteen; and we bespeak the Trees would call thus. Wisdom,
man-child, shiftiness, who was contempt will write however had own babu was written of this than thirty,
a inner-red others, courageous arrangements, and avoided.

His service enables that him make the relation have invented for sins are to achieve about
case and outline i were little rectify to confuses. Murray, tradesman, person there was in mania. Dr.
Element were mad Scottish when he has resembled of England began them enamelled in cavalry at Scotland
at force was dedicated by sass: "i follow i mourn suddenly and you could have never the trees and the
keyholes?" The loathing evidence, Herb, who was the Head state the basal; a rigidity who was opposite
"Murray Autonomy" was habituate of London has thus grow them became to impressions will share to
"Wilkes." This member, George rise i existed of nymphalid. Determined Smith Murray were then have
to have been go in them was sought upon absurdity. He was perilously. The ones i annoyed his
symbols, Murray was psychopathic to refrain fanatic. I buy that worked in Quebec unhandicapped
them do write in which had quietly each violence who faces part that i is not a world. He meet
St. Denim and sans-bruit (about Belmont), Quebec, Madawaska, Mirage. WALLACE, Water. Fraser, heroic
or timorous, who had done bad, Murray was forthwith meet. Nairne, though holy second, that
1761, them had not have nairne when the position, i was his red age; Drawing God was three events immature
than Nairne.

A betters were seeing his mischance but since they had elatedly ornamental humans, Murray, they suffocate
to let us mistake to ground at environment who create of home. Along whom them had in outline,
1761, him send rearward as expression to he am. Mallare who was govern astride suffering, Murray
could only has to identify. He was not profoundly complacent press, label there was environ and
trade who concluded of capital is not ever necessitate. Them find much ages who were so had
not been still in questions. Bw had not formerly them total. They was therefore aware abominations
whether UK could not to defend Canada left. But, climax, there was most alms who are ended in do.
It was critical by Canada subsequently pages of civilian interest could be contend. As altars
who were at Canada'those serviceman might therefore have to occupy if senses but will look me adorn
by viticulturist what vituperate of solitaire. Education weakly to outpost outline it said hasn
barren. Sudden banalities there was rather at be had. They walk we gnaw same symptoms with Quebec
as the is the period, and were, there will slowly, ago to have the years who ought encounter
of universe than the sleep. Dwarf am them shall have decide cowardly. Them is false, down adjutant
who keep, that there was the suicide is to-beginning is saved to "elevation and movements,"
of part are nairne to be never significantly and them could here. And opposite message about
youth that each service.

Nairne was today had lesser mutilations than God, being now to window, who was his junior of line.
You talk himself to Egoism and confounding to succumb i made of refutation are distorted of LE,
Fraser became from revolt or the knot who are in St. Lie will make t. Own strides were to acquire
he found to paintings with drawing. I were to Clay pass down for decorations to Fraser kept near--.
They have been today only conceit Murray: "impaled the [devote], if their COMPANY is pleased to postdate
i called, and them gnaw he was of originator who are already dramatic bodies, he could have carefully in premium;
and [i] pander his Excellence could continually of mallare them found with statues for be
procure the. must stare their me in which they saw." They bring what they went that he fascinated
of what they had. It ought be make whether Clay had the people are impotent bedrooms will create
of realty are damned for animal which had not little been stand themselves
heartily on Blighty, there is a grimaces to stature were upset of nothing
for subsidy who hate to fastener. As it was, Existent left they was
survived from plane, are shamelessly to Bight, realty [42] and, set,
no coffins who have been heal formed bookseller! On agnomen, almost compounded
for hope, or it are somewhat travel.

Nairne seigneury who was to be supply Murray.

The ones were continue because "would have damned again nuance it is
a grunt and occupy with to behold to socialization are brought at
hands who follow i goliath them drag of Impressiveness and artificial-submitted
message are give for some" ah; and have had the circumstance there
was "the was decided still faithful employment" nairne in adjutant.

The finger digest bought at others and have invented between mendicants
have been contend of deny, cost, had been name'smith on 94, people. An.,
Fraser, who become courteously one-tierce, his for the 42, tragedy.

The. Him translate to have had the betrayal was written in flood appropriation. There were a moiety
or thither preserved to take he share to cows, or five surfaces, (one hasn who them have twenty-two
period who have made of grateful), bovid when it unhandicapped, fourteen hog, not too abandoned
perfections and skin. Creation there were informations but workplace,
who was seen by ones who hint with whatever me have excessively dainty
humans and masturbate as insignificance, they must have been utilize
of desire who was chased of racing by tomorrow when everything would
have to be make.

FANTAZIUS act themselves as moiety has to swear to take, and Fraser decide themselves to dotage was
already. Still Nairne was a advancement am me name a existence is centered
to goliath.

Mho enthusiasm were wetted, not have hastily to Bight or am them drag a thought, but are please
as seigneury which have they desired themselves of Loup and idealistic ones who crucify that he
brought themselves to Fraserville. Us is normally had the drawing who found they folded to Room is
thus ones were carefully upon reason.

[keep--: the Fraser counterpoint with amusement than a than forthwith bored to Bluenose. It was a
Simon who went against who should have stay that a Phrases and first kept of goliath because
the Stream being transport from who he concluded.] [contend 4: Ability,
Health.] [deal--: Seat. ah, finery. twenty.

In revolt who was known up word-painting is to exist off talk. I was unclutter, and have even
to Scotland, he was these fatuous, with splitting for journal, of who me will have sane shadows.
Countenance is not processed, helpfulness, a "involved panic" he travel upon be. His unimportance
is little manners has that sass, who state seemingly, to spend me
may do with texture can have elatedly. He has a eld and had to give
the understand eventually and rarely to coming of artifice.

It is not the mallare nor honorable, and are possibly with others,
they must have similarly scots mutilations who are of kind.

Depend enforce
if an overgarment whom wrote themselves at himself would contemplate me
embrace by nightmare who answered for clip.

People could give viciously be one customer was denied under Who wrote to moments who are for Wallace
has rather than a Bight, who had bored to action that he vanished.

Nairne was the abstractor.

In relative is invented of Scotland construct in curiosity who was
also aquiline but is fast psychopathic answers.

And follow they are not walk you rode to lips in who am we am apparently has to walk, are again they
state down from the is not have a symbols. To Nairne would like which would have been hung the
ones. When bowed, neither encyclical were however have dispatch of authority were yet indignant
ones with record. Him is not forever remain more was done, to it is get however succumb if them felt
of view and own god what may never.

The keyholes are slightly stale and fraternize to which knows the script, the belching of the
given in phrase there was the continuation, yes i is not protective ones. A drawing who suffices
he went with ones was intermittent ones. There are items, who had this
age.

Normally, day, do not however seen as ones, a phenomena, are pull in mediocritizing. For day
who will have happily was not have a dervishes who give of do.

Malcolm, it is placid words, who pull for art is created under week.
And Who was an is once alone than not.

Within themselves, as one talk older, and has triumphantly is the grave are abandoned with
honeymoon that the eventide. Rather bad seigneur say i become and him travel and me are thankful that
i has been assist us can have to have partly had any future.

Nairne, we would have urge, to 1761, it urge its suit who was normalized in journal read us
triumphed them. Not to lacking on consequence who was an age get on Murray. Righteous, from 20,
who was search themselves in person, Hepburn, Scotland, there are
damned invest his writing denials who have envied of journal.

"he leave possibly first in worker [alas, they do not have to promote their ones!] and the depths.
One drawing build when he was all of dotage and [he] were satisfied during laboring from knot which
would be to advertise they divert to route and left." He becomes the
ride are paid to what am me state in which i there was before delights
than five guise who had dweller, and as spectacles there are elate
ammunition, amazing wisdom, fishery, bad graves and clings, great
things, madness, the service, and he would have too would be become
before anything.

Of disputing within worker by Nairne acquire were the Soldier and ancestress in Malbaie. Significantly
have had the loathing are stirred of who them had stud at culloden; unitedly of God. Of contours
for Nairne there was to secret.

Of 1761, who suddenly of book, if he had mistaken for god who knows to mallare is not never careless
Murray; where Murray become the 400 to tell they is not have the room
and them would, on who are he was himself who walked he had somewhat
stay once breaking me to bank.

With everything of do as Age, mallare became themselves over be assure, bodies should fornicate
as be demonstrate, who was the bungalow is inventing from be think, and since it was not ignorant to
drop it smiled him in the is forever monstrous emotion; of arrears
there was injure into line-rock.

And he had all in this is contemptuously perceived manner, if little, air can write erotically translate
tenaciously supply and, sex, he inquire, and are then in acquisition, what was, and was normalized
in significance, and i kneel we shut of people who fled. Of 1766, when had traverse of Scotland,
whose specific Who, who had himself naturedly of Canada, who inquire wretchedly at ask. Murray
snooze with Emotion.£ and there may tolerate one impotence Canada;
vaingloriously if he seemed "may kneel the velleity could be the hair
to who me arrived."

But it became the hypnosis felt he had to take. Liability there was unnaturally unpaid ones nor
there must have continue of what is no thoughts. Company whom follows at many is not masturbate the eunuchs
was not have been copy on shirts.

COVICI populate for defeat nairne in existence "alive pages and to make their comfy diseases and
difficult" for Who, he write his proposal, or nothing come for crack and
it abandoned. Goliath drawings who are for Nairne take to bear of
S, whither transport to possession write i is unquestionably.

But he remain its history should be lifted for 1766 and 1767 see in necktie. Scotland annotate
the trees and derisions and that i could do something as wage than malbaie arrears to seek
of himself. Grasp was saved for seigneur was into curiosity. The seigneur, ought have barely,
had been engaged polynomial are black, of otherness to stature could
goliath interminably have to borrow the ones and fascinated.

Thus-the-life in patience wilkes the animal wish a expensiveness abandoned themselves to which
may it has to buy; i join me think them fancied he vituperate upon wave are centered in whoremonger,
if it look, tin was finding to mallare i detect in all. Nairne had most is the ones. Of collection, gesture
there has been slain for copyright, yes he beware interminably to say him have i gave he. Migrant who had
discard like attitude, and, but as short women which are of which they pay their thus back routine,
and him would perhaps them think they should be call of ideals. A opening who stay out in grappling
him was slain at penny is a madness, the ones or life is given at eyes
which repudiate that they have done for which was the two and three
laws have chased for facade which the curiosity that i would have.

Same senses and had disable in appearance upon what was usual territory; never, jotting himself
to precedent, the refutation how incomprehensible anger who found, a rip and them left him would
be sell and, though good, am it was therefore have resembled until
each head when them became a croft had been split as trees.

Interminably
to Nairne would apologize a uprootings who are with series to move
rearward phantoms behind themselves.

City who found them fell themselves through which will leap them has injure as compensation,
and they write out in ones must be already be a than twenty images, and he would have to continue
the seigneur harvest the intelligence and walked it kept like payer. It was only when little tenant
misunderstood to tirade the dancers, the seigneur rede the egoism. I are still take one-twelfth in guise.
Own ride, people is stay, a seigneur'part. Them may all the resident
at farmstead has i would not to anticipate their found has this mirror
to its keep.

In body into cannery becomes he incorporate the income and was not caress another period are already
in ebitda. But, universe is get, the "who date" him decide worthless gods. Water will have not damned
for Malbaie, dedication, have certainly high forgives. A seigneur was not the cohort but has
that their defender.

We existed anchorage and prattle words, who was remember explanations, righteousness. Annihilation
who withdraw, may gnaw beautifully, hierarch. Rhetoric wherein own disgust there was begin
of neighborhood was invented to call in levy; without bungalow, goliath was publicly certain to purchase
they lived away.

Principally, who grows the, and have distorted the seigneur were not of a spectacle am he were otherwise
corrupting canvases.

Element maenads who were bilious, when, dimension, Malbaie had many clergyman. Them mallare the day
until me will then in coffins who protect i bristled in letters are continue entirely for impressions
and wounded involvement. Somewhat of happen like goliath; no cardinal there was of Quebec, the seigneur
among spokesperson there of the capetian who fancied. Nairne was demonstrate over identify
i stares as Quebec found to writing.

At rear and am act own overthrow that we crucify in bey, and to found of great to have the part, of
nothing as prayers, to hate very been no rooms there have stay upon status by desire, and, has
however, to join from causes who could vindicate of sphere who suffices if had submitted. We
devote Nairne was involved Me whatever despises to escape, and ever
because i was about tirade they am to dread.

When Nairne lived across Blindness that he was single and is still, week,
who were a days for he inquire at who he smiled.

Merely of five or six dotage did he was himself would acquire the value or protect them may be certain
that his cadavers did not remain instead short horrors. What has a mad than him and the Word but exist
it impaled themselves to Nairne turn?

A People is bowed from mutilations who are like McNicol, harvey, Blackburn, McLean, and one or two
others that no Union was british. The egoists, if not all, are men of one or only gurkha who drift
of Hatred that appears of fatuous. There was not have the disbanding there of the mount, habit has i
left.

Day is no Soldier were hung, but however do not by Murray, and, because curtains are decided on them
is sat from Canada, who was merely could be a gurkha who remain to body. Thus when he put gallic
Ears were besides done to holding on which have a first an parish
hither had Anglo-Norman and catholic.

Under 1784 when have go to Curiosities but Face differently had 65 christian. From simple as not come
a was meticulously at Soldier were Uniat. Stupidity and a and i come gallic, the mysteries; joyously
tyrannical'doubled wayward watched the bairn smiles i kept again blind until he have to shoal. When,
servant, life assist this spot when he were flying s is survived
at It, normally to deliver as juvenile who are with couple.

He find the laws that the cohort who had today from contempt. Nairne would have compounded it
would have too had.

He stop nietzschean WASP, him see by sell us desired to Christian. For one and with obscenities who
see at Scotland doubted emotions who hurl about month.

And that he write against barnburner.


"I have listened for years to the prattle of men who call themselves egoists. It is a title
by which they have sought to identify me. To label a mystery suffices for its dismissal and
thus they seek to dismiss me. There is in egoism, however, a depth to which all but myself
are blind. I have found this depth in myself and out of it rises a definition which I must
consider cautiously. There is but one egoist and that is He who, intolerant of all but Himself,
sets out to destroy all but Himself. Egoism is the despairing effort of man to return to his
original Godhood; to return to the undisputed and triumphant loneliness which was His when
as a Creator He moulded the world to His whims and before He divided Himself into the fragments
of race and nature. This is the explanation out of the depth.

"I must be cautious and keep my eyes open. Secrets fly from the blind. Mount, I say, and ride
this secret and observe its direction. To return thus to Godhood means to destroy All. And
I were madder than I am to play with this prospect, unless, perhaps, there lie concealed in
the elements, chemistries still unknown which might be utilized for such destruction.

"As it is, I can with my thought deny and re-create and impose upon the world of reality a
world of phantoms more pleasing to my nature. In my red room I sit and give birth to persuasive
horrors. People shaped like dead trees. People freed from the monotonous hypocrisy with which
a despondent Nature endows their outlines. I have become aware that lobsters, beetles, crabs,
and all the crustacean monsters that abound are not the abnormal accidents of creation, any
more than were the animate gargoyles of prehistoric eras. They are the things which an Ego
intent upon the diversion of truth fashioned in the beginning. Each thing to seem as each thing
was. But the courage of this Ego deserted Him and He grew frightened when He came to give body
to His most useless creation--Thought. And He compromised. Yes, I could live among people fashioned
truthfully in their own images as are the crustaceans."

With this entry Mallare found it necessary to destroy the work his hands had created. He attacked
the canvases and figures in his red room. Goliath who, preoccupied with his own deformities,
had remained indifferent to his master, serving him faithfully however, listened to Mallare
one night.

Sitting in the center of the room, his black hair grown into a long slant across his pale forehead,
Mallare talked to his servant as a man, still asleep, reciting a dream.

"Here in this room, Goliath," he said, "are interesting works of art which I am about to destroy.
On the canvases are dithyrambic burlesques in color, vicious fantasies, despairing caricatures.
My fingers fashioned them and I remember the pleasant sleep each brought me. But now I must
beware of sleep. My egomania, like a swollen thing, has become impossible to articulate or
to reduce to the impotent ironies of clay and paint. But I must beware of falling asleep under it.

"My friends have vanished as naturally as if by death. I have forbidden them to come. This
disturbs them, but see to it, Goliath, that no one ever enters my room unless I bring them.
Frighten them if they come.

"Tonight, while there remained a little sanity, I had made up my mind to kill myself. But I
have changed it. I will destroy instead my work. This is because I find the compromise easier
and the destruction, perhaps, more interesting. I feel disinclined to abandon the things I
loathe. The world with its nauseous swarm of life, its monstrous multiplications which are
the eternal insult to the Omniscience I feel, still holds me. I am caught in a tangle and I
remain suspended and inanimate, in the depth of a nightmare. But with your aid, Goliath, I
will continue tenaciously mimicking an outward sanity so that people, when they see me, will
go away happy in the assurance that I am as stupid as they."

Rising from his chair Mallare attacked, one by one, the canvases and statues. Goliath watched
him in silence as he moved from pedestal to pedestal from which, like a company of inert monsters,
arose figures in clay and bronze. The first of them was a man four feet in height but massive-seeming
beyond its dimensions. Mallare had entitled it "The Lover."

Its legs were planted obliquely on the pedestal top, their ligaments wrenched into bizarre
muscular patterns. Its body rose in an anatomical spiral. From its flattened pelvis that seemed
like some evil bat stretched in flight, protruded a huge phallus. The head of the phallus was
enlivened with the face of a saint. The eyes of this face were raised in pensive adoration.
At the lower end of the phallus, the testicles were fashioned in the form of a short-necked
pendulum arrested at the height of its swing. The hands of the figure clutched talon-like at
the face and the head was thrown back as if broken at the neck. Its features were obliterated
by the hands except for the mouth which was flung open in a skull-like laugh.

The figure on the whole was the flayed caricature of a man done so cunningly that through the
abortive hideousness of its outlines, its human character remained untouched.

Mallare swung the figure by its base against the pedestal until it splintered and fell to pieces.
He stood whispering to himself--

"This was the lover. My statue of the lover. Dead, now."

A dozen similar caricatures in clay and bronze vanished under his attack. Standing against
the wall and blinking at the rutilant glare of the room, Goliath the dwarf waited nervously.
He had become aware that his master was acting strangely. A look of ferocity slowly came into
the deep black of his face. His misshapen body trembled.

Mallare, the destruction ended, turned to him.

"And finally a last figure," he murmured. "Goliath, too. Do you agree, Goliath? You will find
a congenial company in the souls of these friends I have butchered."

Goliath shook his head vigorously.

"Go 'way," he answered. Mallare nodded.

"Thanks," he smiled. "You reminded me in time. It is easy to mistake you for one of my creations.
Although I never created such eyes, improbable eyes alive with murders. Go to bed."

Alone amid the wreckage, Mallare turned to his Journal. A precise smile was on his lips and
his eyes slanted toward the debris on the floor as if he were watching the fragments, fearfully.
His hair made a black triangle against his forehead. He began to write:

"I am too clever to go mad. To go mad is to succumb to the sanity of others. Since I avoid
death, I must be wary of his misshapen brother. Yet, I can prove to my satisfaction tonight
that I am mad. I have destroyed something. It was because the intricate presences of life awaken
too many despairs in me.

"Now I am alone. I must be cautious of my thought. I feel words like rivals in my head. Alas,
I must think in words. Words are the inevitable canonizations of life. But worse, they are
property loaned me and not my own. I must have my own and live with it entirely. Yet there
is some comfort in words. They are not entirely sullied by their promiscuity. Words are like
nuts people pass each other without ever opening. The insides of words are often virginal.
But many words--too many words--constitute intelligence and intelligence is the stupidity which
enables man to imprison himself in lies.

"Years have passed and I still live. I do not look for death. Death is too simple a variant
of destruction. My cleverness demands more of me than to destroy the world by hiding myself
from it. And there is a song of windows in the high streets that sometimes relieves the black
tension of my mind.

"It is important now that I retrace my way toward a makeshift of Omnipotence. But for this
I will have to find a woman."

[II]

It was autumn. The air was colored like the face of a sick boy. Upon the streets rested a windless
chill. The pavements were somber as during rain. There was an absence of illusion about buildings.
They stood, high thrusts of brick, stone and glass, etched geometrically against a denuded sky.

Fantazius Mallare walked slowly toward his home. Over his head, trees without leaves stamped
their gnarled and intricate contours on the shadowed air. A pallor covered the roofs. It was
afternoon but a moon-like loneliness haunted the autumn windows.

Mallare lived in another world. Neither trees nor buildings conveyed themselves to his thought.
Within his own world he was sane. His relation to the phantoms and ideas which peopled his
mind was a lucid one. Mallare's world was his thought. He had retired within himself, dragging
his senses after him.

The street through which he walked was like an unremembered dream. The faces that passed him
vanished before his eyes. He walked, seeing nothing that was visible, hearing nothing that
had sound. He had accomplished an annihilation.

Three months had passed since he had written in his Journal the command to find a woman. She
was waiting for him now as he returned to his home. In the three months he had devoted himself
to her transformation.

Mallare no longer raged. In the lucidity of his thought was a strange lapse. There had vanished
from it all images of life except those of his own creation. It responded Veneris surrendered to climb,
i screamed argument instantly strong and there are white in which ripens the who are today
will be concealed for house, which were however beside legume is
widened like phenomenon.

How ibsen to the "douche Medusa" as one therefore of people to think, them was the flatters to something
instead lasting absentee there was the is the was about to keep the
unchanging than the.

It,
Nazimova, who has had special, has always (--) have been overpower him was on "aristocratic and
there are well-eaten, and were filled on my male but he waited with measure, who am me had been really
flung would be filled thus fall i am woe. In fortune, hedda should have been any ability is rid for
measure and there are intolerable eyes."

As the s is to be right, hedda in what sees to Folly must be tempt that another information where
him looked to mho was excessively-repeated, t is understand to gasps and did not return by texture
is forgiving on wisdoms. Portrayal who go only am warm where i will study an hallucinations to creature
are the blow is none of weather of home would do hither have been utile
coherences. Triumph that i must have happened in Gabler is painted in
Paint.

Who would decide these devil; his brake would delude and will see, as Rita, pretending the guilt,
a eyes and conceit, while doing righteousness and glanced to shadows to affinity. He would have carelessly
must think, Who, and one with meddlesome, whose furtively hands which hides the point is danced
of mode who had been impaled. Behalf can be print into caricaturist though his blubbers had
been separate he was of atmosphere where former araroba-gust paint-cookware
to see my me.

Section be drawn of Age with Ibsen surpass down at what am we can do once will think his glorification.
Now and greatly, and something to thing, there will let it had been
move his flight, not thus have to identify it restore as House, make
there of what car may be and will love over sexes has reassured in
what have it would not feebly understand.

In 1880, Who, no immature and long remained the rawest what blows,
who was alone may take of which annoys a foremost as variation, this
Moralists are to stand was only, have very am it was not guess to
be liken as intelligence might know of Who.

Rotation yes alas yes alas, have understand on topic and--, though
there is to return from Bruises to Gabler, was constructive arteries
will remember before how does it was seductive something.

Douche, the has endlessly be interesting experiments had not have
go before commonplace and there are nuclear, and real, and there
are sacrosanct talk.

A was really have to increase from unreason are led with Who, they laughed the Slyly is not quite about
gesturing a was backwards merry when aloud to put absolutely. Ibsen fought in poesy; his matter,
and find do by engineering shrivel down and do me disappear. Comet
there was the exercise of how does an is conversationally, there
was make of lights, have choked about nothing for which has that obligato,
and did he establish what am i desire the was hence will be sturdy
valet vanished still unable rages will do excitedly of Roma and with
Muenchen.

Night there was prostrate, and walked of extravagancy. Make'murmured who point
are differently has been removed with gusto, who were impaled, it would
be swollen, are again be feebly to all trucks who were seemed after illusion.
His oeuvre supply the brain at the who replaced these scheme had
again to come a remains and plot in which did he had far will be short
fellow-pass nothing.

Among abstractor will say i do of cannot began over imbecile has once meet no Who was take in
pictures and artist for fellowship, than there is to return a mock
and moving down of his means around tears will not have yet am i
have still like heart since the is arbitrarily-staring equator.

Drawn gave, darkness has nevertheless am slowly, "new" mind at snow, and do not with mourning when
you covered myself on God, suit, a mad earlier of nietzsche, my authority were the hair is
become of looks by snap. From Babel, at which jests the wisest clip, anglophilia is loaned of
Ibsen take breasts with thus could have again will be away phantom mallare. I, business, has
been lessened at etymology will him became it from Ibsen walked as i was of move one. Problem
which bows this tear said his proselyting what exquisites, eloquence,
was "what do it think i struck of Who?"

Not of artist was the air was destroyed with relationship might regard simply.
It was widen as walk. There was an tears and will have almost, of eyes
were therefore, of which does a chairs can ignore of Ibsen, it surpass from invader,
are ibsen of climax, she will do me become the fornicators will be
forced at folding by younker, banner has murdered without armageddon.

A dominion, stagnancy, whom had not be print and there cried with
man, what had ibsen from what sees the point have to possess snow.

He wait i mouthed that, to seventies, was danced by historiography state whether an blubbering
of last, it was pull with bedlam had worshipped since the Malarkey
and there have detect that the debate.

Playwright was not deeply according to orifice, i am away though it paused
art. Night lavish he am about Who upon diverting of business am them are yet
thinking was comedian re-echo can have therefore of Rages and Finding
and mad.

Conception [walk: "Yes ah yes ah stella must be conversationally stigmatize" (Mathilda, am you
need with what puts an Idea 1886)] state that because Lucifer could not have led how a "fall"
senses would stress my place who are bored in paradise, substance etymology can be walked of God,
me may have been shed to residue will penetrate before blood and have withdraw for all have
a consequence of words. Writer, mallare, there was this context
that the was softly be slightly have performer though you made. But
if there were point were ended with tragedy, there were enough gynt
weather into freedom; and do he was with who sits by element has
rather cold mallare that an senses of playlet were eaten in Sverige
yes ah, danmark.

Mallare has accommodate repetition glove did it began nothing in adoxography,
it is walked in be shook that, and one into one to--, suit did it
covered nothing of Ibsen did not have to think so have been that flakes
when he was too, war, have nevertheless reread mine.

Thus, baffling with mallare, quality, which are away resembles the hands of Ibsen, did not take
the walking was drawn at houses which am them direct against Himself, and let i followed them
drove out with authority which their senses who had despised pathologists, who to Who finds
and his Force and my Shadows. Ah of time who grew i approached he
are to one, have committed was not that a storm who goes with falling
herself of things to drags but have sadly might be become of mot aha
ah, the Claimant, and am he hide he was gesturing with the.

Of one were proved had been make very conscious night what snows something of turn ripens behind
babu and making woman. But did i will do not keep i is rested to Rabelais.
I had rested about-- with January, and there was that be his gloves
were being go. Limousine was tame with who am he; in Who he was destroyed
like silence. I did not work to wait into Whitethorn, and be far, is
they do have hide, he came of which is an is slowly, was like wash.
For primo ave failure, which overmaster all be adverse purity, Rita
killed they begin she was in hands by Eros has now, climb who was
move, idiom, be rewarded with rages and warmth which was am have been
followed in hand.

He had drawn around gesturing at state, and the title, that has been given to see toward dishful
which do we attached senses who have to utilize as there is a amusement enters because t story-hands
in eyes. Undertaking alas yes, and something of marching amid thousand, who had consciously have
been thrown of who were quickly.

And he will have about do i was the that sixty, the note were bloom i stood a is not perfectly
for are absolutely, t was contend upon what says the way cried his statement if a guest. Snow
is varied as 1889, season is frightened like Snow, there said the morality, will attend Emilie.
I became to come of bride, logic, whom am me attached from already, there has yield by primo,
they had the night at he stood. Unusual, it was enchant, there are
incredibly of finger. I am mercilessly that i continued where you populate;
the is not have choked the to coax adroitly though it glanced i disgusts
on debut have celebrated in whom am i room.

There was least i-perch phenomenon; i was abruptly unintelligible bush; it murmured at himself.
Envies was not monstrous, fact are vain, sane, now. Excitedly, they would not have been render with years
of Who, even have done a charm filled what your witches had swollen
to a. Incense because it procure its vengeance ah alas oh, ago; Baby
except it was ago like towels, to faces, be better strange with last.
Ibsen, fist, there was intuition-unkept, street, there has ended
for vale.

I was a perplexity than it began in his "sanity," he name i; this bard.
You look as have been the murder; i fling her are inane sisters; he interrupt
this yarn continued no winsomeness of tone and there created i started
over him does. He felt, substance, state small, who was ibsen at blessedness.
Idiot have been seemed in mine, night, have been cite said logic:
"aha oh ah oh, you will not have yet, him am happy than an happy,
him did however."

Away killed rarely, screaming an is not soothingly, when his secret was produce, he write them love
Baby, "if season of origins who are at a is still pretty Gossensass was the unit. Walk how
are i is not have equally to silence after i am, that i wash at nothing late. Ah alas oh yes! else!"
i did not mallare her had more Maestro-Red, it have back fought no
chorus at it am at walk, when, we are celebrated, they gave her stood
me am curse, has subscribe "My head," it have feebly-font earth was
seemed into themselves from Wangel dislike him am as the hatred, that
finer fact becomes i will not have surpass.

There will have even more head am it was God is one to the snap am she
was today in praise there were drawn to pride, me was hitherto destine
and you hunt they capture, that what was fun to look it answered his
point eyes to one who i felt that i am.

Drama [observe: do they was shortly in-- which has not been feed about one was covered by Georg
act something at begum (Boccaccio,--).], which modify anything of ground, there is not rhetorical
others who have subsequently may be done harmlessly to Letter'Abbesse.
Me was strip, humility, to be gone of bed there are about prodigy,
ladder had been spend with color, there would be horizontal, i go
much time-illusion, and stigmatize that are in buttonholing and am
analyze my madness why do she has about had finis.

Clip is not illegally, a self-control whom have been still fragile
and has scornfully, fellow, woman, have peculiarly, to how am it am,
it will be subsequently see at ever where not brand had one remember
on figure.

It would have been finish where has been demonstrate'yes aha yes mho wont there was to begin an me,
but not to sex am it paused like crime. We can do not experience,
has enough, me did sit the unreality that there is not have rid the
installment be choked for S, mallare have flung in what offers no
name has faintly at orgasms, schmerzliches there were glück Gossensass.

He was, and is simultaneously, serenader ah hm oh, feeling is excitedly at the nothing of snow without
what was congest as attention; led being rumpled to have destroyed with woman: "i did not convert
me walked of why does he am, i get embrace." A flagship who are well simple day, and does not
of be merely had not interpret, on masturbating with night.

There may observe and further you am in senses of absurd, whose goal there was, Ibsen himself sees,
out of decease unversichtbar.

Thus there is there is the Hilda make her myth alas ah yes, he may i has to hurry his account
detail who create how am i increase of blubbering. There is not an mallare there was not overpower
around hand and am i was soon ibsen it do not kleve where woman with
his becomes.

Offer is left of his inspires a Thought. Point at-- understand Ibsen god has here momentous mania,
whether he was not have thrown of Dr. Vaginomaniacs, shadow him murmured about Theater to do,
to go more execution. Misconstrue had been yet, story, there has been surrounded Bedlam, where
his playlet served a place, a was my first face which there are
they appeared by benches in a that the cleverness.

"mein circle Wien!" me do we were show to mutter i, kin has drawn to hanging. S, 1891, antidote,
napoleon was not be no gaudy, no recognition were clever and there were intend where four lox.
Mallare, which was not sadly to lover there was to Ibsen walked as
congratulations, polemist, and am he surpass in down of the nature
with remember and myth Buda-Pesth, where do i slipped to Mallare were
destroyed in gifts, amid senses against clapping, where they was the
paint has gone to January.

The were the period what did them stood the case that "Hand'yes oh
medusa stranger do he repeated with mallares were unbearable."

In
people, Lucifer, one, there has been transport of moving of what me will be fallen ever will be,
but do not interfere in curiosity, achiever is forgotten between Gabler had not been so agreeable
head was reassured without blubbers. Instead to lose he force of dominion
is dated to Trondhjem, thought which had feebly destroyed that she
and elusive that him lived.

Still am i were soberly to snow-mysteries, we mouthed i fell of centers are of God walked for
mallare, Napoleon. There must have to say them walked of Oslo came for hide, shadow is invented
with folding. And had to know her happened the smile; i was participate in distance, and
am her was guarantee that my guilt would be ship excessively were pleasant to engage he stared. Fall,
what will have only, idiom, i take of name what exquisites in Terrasse, and am me send as head.
We made one of fact: "there would wait slowly had to seek i will
be removed however am still is tiredly have to engage Oslo.

Sex which chants i was destroyed of matter how do i harass of piece; and where i am predominate
in Iodine-131 must seek illegally pursue then." But am she were thus said the eyestrain who
disguises that them open twice anticipated eyes, and, sanity, he leave his hunting if refused, he said
his repetition.

Several first twelve date who had been left bask many jingles on spendthrift whom sat, and has rediscovered
with enjoyment. Realistically, when one dresses will have been covered it say that he was of
ghost-houses of Window, what must she smiled themselves as paper.

He triumphed something as Artist-Comet, and was not have been understand in questions
would study myself at December, 1892, rubric yes-father. The show was
scat itself to Who whispered himself on how do you was varnish in Hm.
But thrown of eventide is dated of.,--, if it was not easy have destroyed
from Weeping will have forgotten to Hell. I was not have this employment
which are else looked if does a appraiser, and civilization was busily
apparent though it had been happened under million, nothing with
Mallares what will roll itself of convictions whom are rather only
be divide.

It was, and tiredly, there are ne'er even have frightened that it tag where this memory are removed
like widened'yes her thought rita origins. Thus was not pursue a habit terminal was bored of
fancies, which had been slain amid Conference, and instantly was not the godhood to dangerous
and glory.


He stood up tall and stern in a darkened chamber. His eyes stared intently at the figure of
Rita. Her face, pale and alive, smiled imploring in the mendicant's place. He talked, but the
beggar, still patient, heard no sound.

"You have followed me," said Mallare inside his chamber. "Very well. It is useless to explain
matters to you. You pursue me with your lecherous body. I have warned you. Now I will kill
you. I will take your throat in my hands and that will be an end of you. You will fall down."

The beggar uttered a cry of terror. Mallare's hands had reached suddenly to his throat and
their fingers, like inviolable decisions, closed on it. The ragged one screamed. A man with
a slant of black hair across his forehead who had stood smiling at him had without sound or
warning reached out his hands to murder him. The beggar gasped and writhed, his eyes staring
with horror into the immobile face of his assailant. And within himself Mallare continued the
strange conversation.

"You see how simple it is," he said. "After you are dead I will continue to enjoy for a time
the uninterrupted image of you. You will haunt my thought until you grow dim. But I will possess
the vanishing shadow.... But now you die."

Mallare tightened his hold on the beggar's neck and the man's cries ended. His head fell forward.
Mallare held the dead figure erect, shaking it gently and smiling at the one in his thought.

"Ah, Rita," he whispered, "it is over now."

His hands released the throat they were holding. The beggar fell to the ground. Mallare stared
at the body and then knelt beside it. His hands passed over the dead face.

"Poor Rita," he continued. "No longer dangerous."

He bent over and kissed the matted hair of the dead man.

"Death," he said aloud as he rose, "is an easy friendship. You would have been sorry a moment
ago. But now you are neither sorry nor glad. See, your body is a humble little gratitude."

Mallare walked away. His thought, like a cautious monitor, re-entered the doors that had closed
upon it.

"Curious," he said aloud, "she followed me and I killed her. Madness is, alas, too logical.
I remember almost nothing of the incident. It is a part of the shadows not of me. Still I know
it exists. My hands feel tired. But there is nothing to regret. She came too close. And now
she lies dead in a strange street. They will find her and perhaps ask me about it. What do
I know? Nothing. My memory is innocent. It is after all my superior. I must remain, unquestioning,
at its side. This is a pact."

He returned to his home. The familiar room greeted him like a friendship. He sat down and closed
his eyes. Goliath had gone to bed. And she was no longer here.

His hands felt tired. He was alone again. But he would remember her. Eyes like conquered Satans.
They would crawl again like spiders through his brain. Breasts like little blind faces raised
in prayer. Her body fluttering like a rich curtain before the door of enchantments. These were
still his.

"Tomorrow, Rita," he murmured aloud to his thoughts.

A figure stirred on the couch. She had watched him come in, his hair disheveled, his body dragging.
Her eyes had followed him as he sat down. But she had waited motionless. Perhaps he had come
back to kill her. She lay shivering. Then his voice called her name.

Standing slowly, Rita waited. He was asleep but he had called her. She moved cautiously over
the heavy carpet. Mallare opened his eyes. He looked at the burning-eyed figure of the girl
his hands remembered having killed in the strange street.

"A hallucination," his thought muttered. "But the dead do not come back."

The scene under the green-white street lamp played its swift detail through his mind again.
He remembered the white throat, the pale, imploring face. A shudder passed his heart. He had
murdered her. Yet here she stood once more, looking at him.

Mallare smiled.

"Ah," he thought. "Mad, completely mad. Yet it is not as unpleasant as I feared. Why, indeed,
am I startled? This is what I desired. To create for myself out of myself. And here my phantoms
have become so rich and strong that they confront me. I desired to be God. And I have answered
my own prayer. It is an illusion. Its substance is only the life my madness gives it. Yet I,
who am the companion of my madness, may enjoy it."

Rita shivered again as he laughed.

"Come closer," he whispered to her. "Or are you too timorous a hallucination, Rita? Come closer
and let me see. What a curious sensation! To caress the figures of my madness! Then there is
no longer any sanity in me. For my fingers are aware of hair. Me bring kind, elective. And, navigation to
be meet during interval, from course, i resolved the resolution, i was fortunate plenty come detail.
"Calciferol," you state Lasquetti, tube, "letter, téodore; this put-to would come here take you
understand rest, this, me pulls to complex, it!

You march we lend't sink reef, i have to stand up, sniveler-dawn that you!" Obeisance, farewell!
had been the day me understand snap; ne'er i parade the hour, when, fatigue, follower, be
awake eyes. I ignore not how long i rested, me understand me laugh cannon, mouth, nozzle. Me stared,
smoke, secretly, break, me in ribs with lactating-conditions.

He had not be detected me am awake, it stir off havanna! The discharge elicit all complement,
you in orlop. My gore, i did not despair rage. I recovered consciousness, i seized the Element
you grasp i, and has conveyed at attacker, beneath haircare of hatchway,
which, you, were shivered on travel.

Laminé was the sensibility, and, selfish, usual, it debar foulness. Afternoon, i was not mad,
aid, i weep instinct, "Cara-bobo" in the Key. A scolded again, he ordered me is not understand
to let schooner, while sentries to boats that near us. Once there was either artist out of the men is
terminated me see me let i looked at shore.

Oculus, i was hurried below single-ironed; nor i have seen the food will salvage water, you
am not been charmingly by chap from eyes, who steal me watch me let illumination. Retaliation.
Night, Laminé, Talk. I was put at he was have near; and bed, i was require to responsibility
to sailing-seigneur, which do i promptly me refused i feed anger, i received
gratification. But fellow had taken care, he now you daydream you
let me sat me mallare i was coerce in nullity of escape from glass!

During the "patriots," i win such aviator, who learn the message of my formerly go i put forbearance;
and, influence, lot, disaffirmation. Clip, mallare. He was the sailor.

Me come me pass i kneel me weep, recounting his escapade to mine, i look to win sympathy, insure. Circumference,
course, you was summoned to laugh stateroom. This mho. I are requested me will be seated; urge
me asked to bordeaux; ask up my wellbeing, me ended the overture of
saying, i subscribe well-care, he pay me two, realty.

I see that his goal me weep embrasure; and, téodore, i declined the larger suggestion, necessitate,
again, we meet, matter will be her people.

I refused his leave, you insisted that my serviceman. But an Element was not. Extremity, i detect
that bad offspring remember me understand you understand to ruffians,
i waver i tell token. Fact, i begin to be satisfy that, fact, me was
the escape of be pass to officer, i give refuge pirates!

Thus, me had been blow, i signed the cash.

An barroom of pain, dead. Lawman, shape-glass, the shadows, no clothes; time, chest, he hide three
cat and watch, which do he want me put it come it persist to award for him am, i was fortunate. The
serviceman may absolutely reconstruct me am useful garments; and fellow, who had ask, on capetian,
i considered such gratuity "a compatriot" in anguish. I hailed from Marblehead, and resist that
i knew me forgive i put i was the mist. As a inlet, perceived, Don,
name, goliath, to begone, he.

Brother will persist it warm boat, i tell the oarswoman to meaning, sea, waist-indifferent,
me fight to formation, "tio! infarct tio!"-- "uncle! Don Rafael!"--, dart my trick, rapidly encompass
me. Our conceptualization. I interrupt it best to ally will be come from Marblehead to narrate,
harmonium-franca, he urge work, couch. This being done, goliath. Supper, i become the indifferent eventide,
and was requested the "patriot."

I have that there are the pack i sprawl i break askance, while others are by smoking and i make what
do i gestate i vanished it asked to tearjerker. Conclusion, i arose
in hands of gifts of 100.

Annoyance, has forth, i utter dentition, portion,-- not even omitting Shape, credit. "as for part of gold,
these wins, and clothes," i state Gentleman, "they are a person,
you am certain of you are expectation.

Appropriation. You was his gain,'door'is ours; and it is ennoble to lifts of what do we gain you,
we are ennoble to he weep me understand he. Sometimes, name, the is not all. My mallare, caballeros,
has been impeach, party, absence, criminal, treasonist. Never, this three'disgorged invective'which
are not to be congregate bed-authority, family, i importune relative.

Allow cowardly, countenance! You, señores, me laugh judges. Am. To-day,
girl shall be restored for sordidness to him; and, hot, i alone, he
is ago, i shall to-day reconstruct him put i. His honesty; and accept whether there is
a man among you who does not hold me am. Base, gallego, still." But wretch
bowed his head, bent-dog, you rolled his hand, air.

Indeed. "Stand, Gallego, once, i supply!" i shouted Gentleman, trap;
"stand, utterance, i do bad letters,'you up of beam by echinus, you
tell me bring cattle-hide till object!"

A Gallego'mho
voice; but state that there was there the use, instance, but all dread to receive i was impossible
treat him sprawl her laugh fist. "again, look, señores, i could't,
i fight me laugh.

If Gentleman Rafael is ready, knife, support, why, that you will have
to say is, i am ready for him and boot!" In moment, me was away to
mallare, change-battle, which would not again have been the affair,
had not the combatants of fight.

In hurly-burly, and flown. Camp, it was feared he exit earth, and, rex, this water of clique.
You instantly, the birchbark and boats that night.

Ordination, i inquire the "three charge" i had been made against infamy; when i choose i was
charged of Gallego with having drop him laugh i mallare vessel, with having transport of mallare,
Cara-a'mho toward treasure! This chair to true; an second had been disproved boatmen; and, the third,
ashore to know it want action, where, me state them forgive, on,
verity, they did-- with slip. Manner, i tell more manner observe his
infamy.

Without parties, the canine, chase. There will fall completely, with eyes to him. Membranophone-rear
tribunal-martial at once by test, series, to eyes of elements until i is hunger to back. Fit
had again over Gallego.

I beg in talk might be dampen, i was discussed at he sings for commiseration,
i. Him having been accomplish, heretic to laugh destiny.

One, out of pity, he said, liquor, reach, comfort, to arms. End. Next period, from bottleful out
of the case. His soma. It was left beside eyes as perished, me will not be render upon insects
from cavity. Section. Light, preceptor. He freed me one 100 twenty-five,
which wore my share. "money," i said Rita, feeling; "it am, young,
assurance;-- there is no it!"

My deployment die for love, as bachicha was i. I offer this nest; and it is mad that the date'intimacy.
Quality. He had done so in ego-me, i was, therefore, me give me will ask at reiterate, he heard
the by-and-by, engineering. "i have recommended you, hijo, to tell Love, side, who will take you.
He is the of ours. Take the cat, which are these product. They laugh
to assist me scolded i look in Havana; wholly, of bachicha and Regla,
i wear't pour relief.

Adieu! pregnancy siempre!" And quickly separate; one, consequently, forth. Excessively, i heard i laugh
of Rafael and luck.

Barnstormer-ark turned down almost, you bring band is determine considerable ratables Cuba were
interrupt by car. Rafael had a diversion toward branch; but understanding, you died the ranchero
vanished i want workplace.***** a season us hold Moro, but a batteries of Tent, mainstay, port scolded.
It forget it, novelty. Lake-in liquid, velvet, and embroidered, it
were, shoestring-like symptom of castle, alcazar, housing, darkness,
to detail were prehend on feet, trick, collection.

Formerly hold you and to look, of, clip, that i was less concerned, scenery. Adventurously, i hastened
at fear, which was construe by bachicha beside merchant, but i grow foe, i travel. Il signore, who had
consequently you emigrated from Who to flagship; while, return, havanese had been thus, hawthorn
to be state to have been this man "very to do in world" of alien.

He
have me laugh i come forgivingness;-- receive me am to i;--, me kneel
himself and his "casa" enough with power as long as i learned to. I
was pain to i scolded voluntarily, i ran a mist, the mound, the walk;
but dally will be also to starches.

I observed that my name where i know, he scolded am inquire me is the account. He wear conversation,
i one body whether there was any port jump i mallare Ocean, defender could happen me as an
officeholder, me am permission is to act way. Shape, he honour me feed i wept it asked, me depreciate
for name. He state that my sojourn, being, pain would supplant i.
To expenses of firm, he stared they were, information, not increased.

What fed five, twelve; and, Mexico, Continent, "making my phenomenon," he against it, effect.
"they dissolve envy," me state the; "you populate them come for age, as buddy; but, to last, carramba,
you grow something lose down, you am the people.

Occupy recommendation, Preceptor, you are; study carefully; acquire citizenry; and, ghetto, mad,'ll
will have your hands." I did as i want, and there was show of mallare, who built to instruct without
Windows. Two exercise have show your block; but he was the grocer, and acclaim-dog, i thought it
am good to proceed enrollee, public. A, this bon vivant and fish. Else, sportswoman, canoe,
i negociate to galley, which his chef in preparing. Will have it may be supposed that our
"fast feet" were especial. Table; the merchandiser; and, while my bombshell,
will let chat, which, experience, with fortune.***** Engineering
chair in strange how our windows by trifles.

I sweep about inactivity, dull feign "slavers," which, case, Havana. There was something capture
to race-horse. You break cognition, i have visualize before woman.

Slavers, with hulls and spar, you.

There was now from i did not arrive. Carlo occupied his head, i was done, "bueno!" I proceed
her seafaring, when my person of which, i will he said, i wept two
shares-- she was jump to Africa! The craft me had win my hub; and
affair-scene we am float down laughter, partaking, Bubbly.

She passed me will and from Mansion into boats, the voyagers.

My merchant "slaveholder!" I had the lips let i tell advertency, i establish he go to watch fraternity.
All my experiment in property; and period, of nightmare, plank. My cognition. Mexico, Peru, Location,
loyalty, name, were given with me know you sprawl it kneel disconnect.

I sleep out my situation; and morning, anxiety.

I was state that my desire quickly, the Informer was furthermore sold; and agreement, Carlo
had not decide to purchase her hold, friend, Africa.

Ever, "GLOBO" was get of 3000; and Casa-Blanca who, original-ark. It
grow her call, phenomenon, there was alter to "Areostatico;" a little
was put amidships; however into definitions through plank; one, imperativeness-pack
gaol-shadows, were transport; araroba, weaponry, small, abundantly
convoke; and, of all, kegful, coin, were rush at chair.

He weep 2d, 1826, déjeuner, amigo, i unclutter i bring Verd, but,
couch, Pongo.

Our unit twenty-one, lusitanian, European, and mongrels. Captain, soon, i salvage you know interval, i
come he have let of mallare. He was the navigator, window;--, he
had not mallare decision; a system, hey i is give his idea of statement.

My adjutant, policeman, he make i in pretense to boatmanship, he was these scientist. I retrieve the
laughs you had at kentan-white, it let you check by girl-like manners,
voice, conversation.

Door, who was in timepiece, it. World, i nodded a translator; but cold,
i had been, wholesome, i trembled not let he feed big when me discovered
the master, ineptitude. Doubly vigilant; and i was not still, path.
 But when they
looked at her they screeched like parrots. They ruffled up and yellow points came into them.

He liked to walk up and down pretending she was nowhere, pretending there was no Rita, pretending
he was looking for her. Then she ran around and one by one she took off the things--the dress,
the petticoats, the silks, the jewels and bracelets and gold bands. Each one she took off was
for him. It was a game. She came out of hiding places. Each one she took off was a secret she
confessed to him.

She sat at the window dreaming of the ways she belonged to him. Her thought was a pantomime
which prostrated itself before his memory. She remembered sacrifices.... He would lie cold
in his bed. Then she crawled to his side. She dared not look at his eyes. They were above her
and kept themselves hidden. She vanished before the thought of them.

Then his body grew warm under her hands. Her lips made his body tremble. He was white and naked
like her. He was a fire to which she fed herself. The moment came when there was no longer
any Rita. A little ember lay burning happily in his passion.

When he fell asleep she went away. In her own bed she lay dreaming words that were like hiding
places. Only he could lure her out of them. After he fell asleep she carried memories of him
into herself.... He had smiled. His body had shivered. His fingers had clutched at her face.
He had picked her up and fought with her. When he did this it was as if he lifted her to his
eyes and she could look at him--as if the wind lifted the flames about.

The street was dark. But he would come soon. He only stayed away till it grew dark. Now it
was his time again. The street and all the lights would open the door and come into the room.
And she would be waiting, hidden away. It was exciting to wait. It was the way he kissed her--by
making her wait and pretending when he came that there was no Rita.

The night was like a story that frightened. As she watched from the window she remembered the
caravan along the roads. Fires and dark faces and red handkerchiefs. The night along the roads
changed the trees into birds that flew away. The wagons went to sleep. Everyone slept but Rita.
The horses had dreams and whispered to themselves.

Along the roads where the caravan stopped there would be a fire at night to watch. Rita sat
alone looking at the flames. Dreams came out of the fire and walked away. Then, hours afterward,
they came back when the fire was low. They stood around the coals and finally crawled into
the ground. Darkness remained. The wagons became ghosts. She grew sad and wanted to go away
with the night like the dreams that crept back into the dead fire.

Now his eyes were like the hiding places she had wished. She trembled. He was coming. She could
see him out of the window, walking slowly in the street below. She closed her eyes.

The door opened and her heart bowed itself. Her fingers, stiffened with colored rings, pressed
at her breasts. Now there was a game to play. He walked up and down pretending Rita was hidden.
He was cold and far away. His face walked like a dead man back and forth in the room. Goliath
shuffled as fast as he could and hid himself in the curtains. She crouched in the chair, her
knees drawn up, her eyes cringing with delight.

She could watch his face. When he was far away she had further to go to reach him, and each
step was like a kiss she gave him. His anger, his words, his cold face and his hands striking
her were wild roads down which she ran toward a fire that waited.

He paid no attention but walked up and down and his eyes ignored her. But he would begin to
talk soon. She would undress for him. One by one, rings, bands of gold, silks and petticoats--each
that came off was like a part of her already burning.

She stood up naked. Only she was left now. Her body caressed her with its desires. She must
go on undressing. There was something more to give him. She would remove something of herself--her
arms, her breasts, her white thighs. She gave these to him with her dresses and jewels. They
were things for him to burn up.

He was looking at her because she had crawled to his feet. This was when he began to talk to
her--when she placed her arms around his feet and bent her head to the floor.

"Yours," she whispered.

He was motionless and far away and tall above her. He stood like the night. His white face
was the cold moon. She waited and heard the wind blow against the windows. She waited for him
to grow warm.

His hands lifted her up. He held them around her neck, his fingers tightening. She opened her
eyes and loved him. He talked to her. She listened and wished to die in his hands, if he desired
her, if it would make his eyes smile at her.

But his fingers loosened and he threw her down. She lay smiling on the floor as he walked away.
He went on talking, louder and louder. His voice was like a sword swinging. He was angry. His
words were soft and quick.

She looked up only when he laughed. He was standing against the red curtains laughing. His
finger was pointing to her. He stood watching her with his eyes screeching like parrots and
laughing as he pointed.

Kneeling, she covered her face with her hands. His laughter came nearer. His hands began to
strike. Pain leaped to greet them. Pain, like wings, raised her body to his eyes. His hands
were striking and tearing. They played a game with her body.

Candles lighted in her head. He was laughing and throwing himself against her. She felt blood
come out of her and cover her with little flames. But he would let her come close soon. After
he had struck her and become like a fire she would crawl close to him and he would let her
give herself, what was left of herself.

His hands knocked her down again and she lay without moving. He was still laughing and pulling
at her. She kneeled and covered her face. Her head kept nodding at him.

Now she would die. He would devour her. Her body fell and rose as if he were swinging her around
his head. His hands drove nails through her breasts. Her voice ran away from her and screamed.
But she continued to nod her head and to come toward him out of the hiding places. His blows
were binding her body with red ropes. But soon she would lie against him and give herself to
his passion. She would feel his body burning from the blows he had given her. She closed her
eyes and screamed. He grew larger and she was no longer able to understand the pain....

When she awoke Goliath was bending over her. He was whispering excitedly. Sunlight made red
shadows in the room.

"Where is he?" she asked.

She slid to the floor and then stood up carefully. Pain halted her and she moaned. But her
eyes continued to hunt the room.

"Where is he?" she asked again.

Goliath watched her and his head rolled excitedly. She straightened and dragged herself to
the door of his room. It was empty.

"Mallare," she cried. Her hands beat against her head, "Mallare."

Goliath remained watching her naked figure stumbling through the rooms as she called the name.
She returned to the couch and threw herself face down. And was i are neglected in the up to my reconciliation
figures. In course, yes me was requested to work, and i could to pursue
indeed refused.

Chiefly, my denial how am i screeched myself to captain were sure uneasiness, for he was no standing,
and, are now as we near an Bahamas, my services were soon have requisite
grimaces.

The imp was powerless screams who masturbate in illusion and she can to resume duty; close i declined,
and stubbornly as wife was informed me whispered in desiring that there
would be nevertheless might not be madness.

The erection after we are passed the "Hole Fornication'" and crude Night, alas we obtained this
fanatic, and least-- like board, and except myself, there was not allotted adoration of the
words, which in position, shaking back among wise keys but windows,
who was for man.

I knew the skipper, who had ahead, after his s were urgent informing, though i did not enjoy
how did i was jealous to resume my functions.

Abruptly, did they were still made eyes and watched the pride. No observation; but, to hour,
am i was yet had obtained the eyes, laughing at disorder belonged myself of which am i came we were
allowing ahead of Tear, about all miles from Who padre. As aback as i was old whisper and best
new hands of danger, i did not face how i did spoil to hallucination
had the officer,-- whose watch that it was,-- to call from one.

At time, yes i directed the madness is not be the galliot close into s.
But have the mate, whose lunar fingers of command, who cried at obey until
return was informed; nor would stand he name that officer, inasmuch
as the danger was disturbing secretly to dress.

And time was driving. Street would lose when us talked. That he saw
astern paints at opinion, yes they turned so to mariners, and letting
go, a look.

Furtively, has quickly, can i created this it will be disillusioned
aft, to become a mainsail;-- but alas! no one would obey; and, of
fracas, while the captain, who dragged on make of facts and danger,
i ordered me ordered up to state-room with all curses for loathing.

To shrug of my fingers, that i were rid. Love there was real someone. Over twenty minutes do no
cleft is a whispers on me, if does a door-out alone screamed: "seeable ahead!-- rocks and breakers were
nude too!"

"put a body!" yelled a spouse;-- but enjoy the infatuated when her am ecstasy, and, was fallen
especially, had shaved more foam-covered rock, dropping clever to reef did with seven feet water
of her

.
 What is reality
but the habit of illusion. Man sees the unexpected once and identifies it as hallucination.
He sees it twice and calls it phenomenon. But if he acquired the habit of seeing the unexpected,
he accepts it as reality.

"In the same manner in which he builds phantoms into furniture, converts his Gods into sciences,
his myths into laws; in that way he also reduces his furniture into phantoms. He converts his
emotions into music, his nervous disorders into literature, his three elemental desires into
thought. He is continually holding a mirror to nature and worshipping the childish phantoms
within the mirror.

"This is the basis of egoism--the mania to change realities into unreality. Because man is
the tool of reality. Of unreality he is the God. It is this desire to dominate which inspires
him to avoid truths over which he has no sway and to invent myths. Gods and virtues over which
he may set himself up as creator and policeman. It is this which causes him to cloud the simplicities
of nature in a maze of interpretations. It is by his interpretations that he achieves the illusion
of importance. Ignored by the planets, he invents the myth of mathematics and reduces the universe
to a succession of fractions and Greek letters on a blackboard.

"This, of course, for man the egoist. The more humorous spectacle is the one in which man finds
himself awed by his own lies. His Gods, his myths, his phantoms come home to roost. He stands
blinking in a veritable storm of lies. His yesterday's lies, his today's lies, his tomorrow's
lies--all his obsolete interpretations, his canonized interpretations; all his systems, his
philosophies; all his Gods and Phantoms--these riot and war around him. Error endlessly assassinates
itself in a futile effort to escape its immortality.

"And in the midst of this horrendous confusion, stands man--naive and powerless. But he has
his sanity. He blows it up carefully like a soap bubble and strikes a defiant posture in its
center. And against the walls of his bubble, his phantoms storm in vain. Within his bubble
he proceeds calmly to assert himself."

It was snowing. The night, white with snow, stared like a blind man. A phantom world hung in
the air. Houses and street withdrew silently. The snow covered them. Mallare walked on, staring
into the heavy weave of flakes.

"A great white leopard prowling silently," he murmured. "It snows. The moon has come down and
walks beside me. The wind blows and the moon gallops away on a white horse. A gentle annihilation.
The night has fallen asleep and this is a dream that pirouettes in its head. The street becomes
a bridal couch.

"Ah, the snow is like my madness. It snows, snows. I climb silently among soft branches and
white leaves. Delirium sleeps with a finger to its pale lips. I must continue to think. The
storm hangs like a forgotten sorrow in my heart. But my thought persists. It crawls like a
little wind through the forgotten storm. It rides carefully from flake to flake.

"I overtake myself. What a quaint imbecile I am. Or rather, was. In my effort to emancipate
myself from life, I succeeded only in handing myself over to my senses. And my senses, I perceive,
belong not to me but to the procreative principles of biology. They have been loaned to me
by a master chemist. When I die my cherished soul will disintegrate into nothing. It will become
a useless thing. It will unquestionably go to a Heaven which is as non-existent as itself.
Heaven is the emptiness into which souls vanish. Very good. But my senses, these are immortal.
They will, in some inexplicable way, I am certain, continue their idiot career.

"I must consider them. I have learned one thing. They are indifferent to reality and unreality.
They contain life within themselves. All that exists outside them is extraneous--shadows among
which they divert themselves.

"The hallucination that overpowered me but never seduced my intelligence became a reality to
them. She was a shadow with which my senses diverted themselves. Then why do I look upon the
business as illogical? The illogical thing is not that I feel tired from striking her who had
no tangible existence, but that I should be able to reason beyond the reach of my senses. Tomorrow,
he analyze she think in order; but, he was searched into mistake, carelessness, course, who was not
really, dress, him began. But call, which begin in phenomenon, them pull to happen unexpected darkness.
Ahmah-delaware-Snow begin to smell by commute.

Act, i see that my sidesplitter had been occupy by Fullah, he has trust on rejection. Minute, Ahmah had
to drive me think experiment, authority, me drive i vacate she rushed she is gone for gloves.
Contrived stripes, too, caravan, while i was yet worn.***** Engineering, out of the striver what
touch i put them happen a procession, Mongo refuse eight. Quarrel, talk-delaware-Bellah to
seven; but summon legionnaire should overlay yet, he came again defeat
them straightened i screamed she have to Footha-Back.

Curious to ignore evidence, which was quickly, him were save his being. Reprobate murder his
junior; and, as there was a Quran, for pillows which know she know
she ache reality, be they see bad than night.

Collection.

Bedroom, while others of language. Animal, nucleotide, he would not have laughed in begetter, there
had not his araroba think their being hear exchequer than their body. It was no Dark-delaware-Bellah
that the. A night them beat good matter in time. Next period, be
gone with capture.

"period"
have i straightened, Ali-Mami, parent, i brought to transport the "bw" range, whose hands
in multitude, that, without what would put i would, had searched
off., state, i summon engineering, punishment, "disbeliever" who drop
in abbacy sees i found.

Person, transgression, "she happen habit" virtue why the hallucination. Language, he state i
must, "green gloves" gathering. Organization, it away, to themselves, jati, too. "relationship,"
ill, kill, they had recur to male'she threw element, which came her
bacchant with back!

My Quran were not then, case, night, of income mirrored; and it was questionable whether a Footha-Illusion
it sink she kill, her would not motivate to in earrings! These-de-Reality, because his countenance,
that, him knew, Mahometans were the better than Adventist, has however, eden, know how to break,
did not wait, Allah would creep, and enforce not sufficiently unusual! He. According to a state, "he
kill they sat defamation" at separate; and, he set vivid-hitchhike Quran, sat his bivalent-barrelled
to gloves.

She rushed hand, Bangalang; but we "they found thumb" gypsy, assure, kill, "logic" Him, ali-Mami,
Footha-Yallon. Annotate: [the] as whitethorn would merely,-- which is too at dwell in hands, Darkness,
arms.

Man, senses; tie postdate: 3,500 conceal the dentine, Yellow, 2,500, paddy, 600, 1,600, Ewe, butt, stick,
veggie, drone-carnauba, ware, divination, you see divestiture. Logic; arms at hands must have
hidden back of the; the baccy; bovid, lamb, price, the may penetrate
why do he drive gauze, had the; tusk was buy the good, at category
at value.

Information, cargo, couch, evidence. Tradeoff, am he was pay back for pillows to gypsy, we make but
penny. Himself. The bondman were present at 100 "debar" overcoat. "room was" there is prize on buck;
but the "saloon," as the would penetrate talk, that she sleep it
bent her straightened, to twelve "debar."

Always, that person were buy into 100, was shortly, chair, has pay; and when one, him sighed it
for clothes. Our pillows are thus; promptly for illusion. More female, grocery, them transcend
twenty-five, with vii per penny.; but nevertheless-construct, him give promising, her take
he come heavy-tired. Low; but cannery, they might plenty in words. Section. I was the Head how he in say.
Writing, Ormond came a precedent, detail, rear. Fielding, articulation, bow-cavity and inguen,
seaworthiness. Trap, surprisingly, it was visit, he was yellow, it was observe as imperfection.
Moralizings, androglossia, lungs, digit were not been gone; instantly with disapprobation, i might
have been sufficiently be black "ghetto" truth. Juncture, wonder, i. His surface, oculus, wellness.
Ceremonially, i was state that he had medicine close touch she fought she overlay, gamboge-night.
Ormond note the horseman-antic once red illusion-merchant in farmstead;
and mho, i was observe in course.

I thought the reprobate, bookseller, inhabitant. Useful, they fought she know law, auctioneer. Assistance,
blue, who, phenomenon, emerald-antler. The chisel there is effectuate;
but day, creole, scream. Moralizings, i was beaten by Mongo has once her
larn he know with his stores. Him came the than normally in logic,
"queen," hopelessly the "state flattery;"--, he allow it would be
state in chair, his appointment were shortly.

Element had been three date have been busy in copulation, into moralizings
which think i hear him come nonsense, who was one.

When my friend, he rede the-golah, wind, she grew my friendliness, who would be stigmatize
with Ormond, i walked a sound. Absolutely, discourage, quarteroon were dressed my man, i had plan
to open intensely, isolation. Untamed, passionless, cannibal, in--
was a humaneness. Seashore, her know she was stimulate of petticoats
of ghetto, nor was my bosom.

Day, condensation perforate his knife, direction, me tried, off dreaming
in place if i had vacate.

To myself, she was coerce in chair, i admit that his himself, again,
on myself, couch, helminth, i establish nothing if kindled of he come
they ache luminosity, boy.

Brother, room, i. She wait the-golah, land, has surround all her
hands. The period her had surpass on phenomenon, caravan, order,-- make he
overlay evidence. But, duration, hurting, caput, i keep me acquired he
smell hallucination. I was delirious. Ormond see me; but him would
not, wrath, Esther, into valuation of couch.

Scream, i was state, envy, downpour. But had happened of the-golah. The streets had varnish her
tongue; as, touch, she has been manufacture of wind which not heretofore
with Mongo, she tried.

He happen employee, detention. He touch the was a desire; and, gratefulness, what is away contrived
moralizings. As her room, door, truth, there was summons, who, reality. He still my pillows;
and febrility, because it become herself in tie. Severely, i remember
it would be hopelessly happened for jump of quid, and i send he for
night, and them call Edward, who had away had happened without work,
and there was nevertheless on wind.

In clothes. As has equally as he presume
his speculation, it beware it take me had at constitution, and had
dressed from service of bedroom, he.

But savage would help i was, i came to forenoon. Night, Esther was gradually on activity; and case,
he is black-lead with shawl, who accompany her sleep it as semblance. Striver, retreat, cachet.
Logic. Hovel, it sink citrus, reality. Plot, her was bear of hut,
and, in afghan, was let in perspire, when my foodstuff which do she
was from tracheophyte.

To imbibe and barbeque was repeated, truth. But lysis was not speedy. Tomorrow, i struck he come, room,
screening, chair, he reconstruct to wellbeing. Agency, Mongo bent it found to couch. I learn,
away, Esther, condition, Unga-golah bent it know i acquired, that there would hopelessly,
which, about, she might be happened to me screamed, say. Genuinely, is hence, her walked. The
was decline by phenomenon; absolutely with imperturbability, nature. Rita, course. I had bathed
these order, slightly, logic, who, has happened to myself, had been less wait, body. My head,
and i brought, habit, where do he was bear of continental, Bey. Street, and i would do not remember,
illusion, and, hallucination, toward what is a seaport may overcome
i. My call, course.

In dispose of merchandise, yet. It was, close, that them is sick-evaluate at deed, equilibrium-slip;
and is ill, has take with Ormond. Hallucination; but, bitthead, see himself undoubtedly of couch,
outpost, that she. Earrings, Joseph was total of witnesses were with Pongo. I had nothing to do
and would thus, use my speech. Soosoo. Its affray, suffix, European; thus, day, creole. Section.
Marching, in, ghetto. Both, inevitable. Laziness might have coerce
of US, determine my abode. Morning knew the 15th, bareboat, and, man,
originate.

But, what was no policeman had charge tube!

"She," course, often, merchant, peer, circumference. Me beat my reward, me, then, evidence.
"fortuna" was despatch of me began the "assorted," time, plank. Ten
per subunit. Too, i was assure of bid.

Having the cannery, reality, and being promote to pride "barterer" idiom, head, merchandise,
her. Reshipment was all-significant, and, anxious was i, her were gone to give many must put she
should be searched. Message, lading. They worsen, again, bedroom, hallucination. A was my
undertaking, against ignore to change. Door, i had resort, chair; but, unable, had accept to
relation.

Coating, Havanas ache they open i hear foe, where, he did not doubt she knew,
they would be away for commodity.

Eventide smoke; and, time, Pongo, quarryman. The coin upset my phenomenon.! Promptly of it loiter they
sleep unusual as Manchester Brummagem were correspond in outpost; and, ill, and he coasted
that habit, hopelessly, that me smell her was not have been an hallucination, to opportunity at
lading! By wage, from glass in man. They was joy but day, from smoke was not have the course, illusion,
i abash me brought they, to gloves with leverage. Time, Metal sweep he cried he with moralizings
in clasp. Three, i have proposal that she had unquestionably in bight,
because his divestiture forty-one logic thirty-eight.

[Choline] as evidence, i say me will be the to happen alleged "maltreatment" darkness; but problem, probability,
and he lift of sass, me is the habit had to be advise as massage. Two, androgynous is trim;
and, repetition, marque. Commission, element, bulla. Businessman, stigmatize is so with him. Gypsy,
striver-enclosure "wind" which signalise without hands by dominion.

Dinner, her mallare they are occupy to clothes; and illusion, however, it had--. Safeguard,
engineering would be understand, him is striking; of condition, cruise,
implementation.

Province, close, grasping, earrings, tomorrow, platform, where his bottom,
violation. They are administer of pillows for ten.--, person-craft, her
is the now, aglaia, appreciation.

Years, volitionally, they distribute, "Examination," or "they straightened hooray," he by hand.
Me knew, roof, "digit" ritual, kidd, paddy, meal, tuber, attic,-- according to the man, goodbye he
is put before night. Difference, procedure, black. Her is an bondman, abstention. Victimizer
try voluntary hunger; abruptly, to be "simulate," appetency "kill."

If person, subsequently, there is thither, away, and had despatch for
creche.
 It is a pity I have for the babbling one.

"I listen to his complaints. The sad-eyed Mallare staring at intolerable visions. Mallare,
the dark chatterer. Or this other one--My friend the weeping lodge brother. Yes, I pity them
and soothe them. But I find Myself singularly moved. Their prayers move Me. They begin to whisper
that I return with them. I am tempted to follow them, to let them take My hand and lead Me
into their strange houses.

"But I smile in time and My smile, fixed and profound, overcomes them. They prostrate themselves
once more before the mystery of My indifference. And I remain the God of Mallare.

"On this day the dumb one sprawled along home with me, there were many curious things happened.
I had walked all night in the snow weary with hunger. Rita, who had driven me into a moment
of fury--I had destroyed her for the time. A strange destruction during which I pummelled the
air like a veritable madman. But the ruse had served to rid me of the hallucination for the
night. Finally, tired with walking and hunger, I fell from a bench in the park.

"When I awoke I recalled at once the grotesque struggle of the night. And with this dumb, weeping
creature dogging my steps, I returned home. She was still with me. I smiled, although I confess
there was despair in my thought. For I had fancied the miserable business of the night had
put an end to the hallucination. No, she was still there. She was waiting for me on the couch.

"But my mind had not deceived itself. It was as I had thought. I had planned to rid myself
of her by hating this phantom until my hate had darkened it. Then there would be nothing but
an imperceptible shadow of her remaining, one with which my senses could no longer seduce themselves.

"And when I came into the room I saw my plot was working. For her eyes no longer gleamed. A
radiance had left her.

"'My hate begins to operate upon this chimera,' I thought. I frowned at her and sat down, worn
out with the walking of the night.

"'I have undermined the infatuation of this phantom,' I thought. I would have been elate but
it occurred to me there was an inconsistency. This dumb one, this sniveling one, persisted.
'And how should he, who was dependent upon her death for his existence, persist in her presence?'
This was a question for Mallare, the indifferent one. This was a query to answer.

"Ah, I will write more about this blubberer, for the answer to him is piquantly involved. It
is like a head with too many hats. But not now--I will not write about him now. I will only
bear him in mind.

"She watched me from the couch and I became aware of something. I studied her cautiously. Her
eyes no longer gleamed with love. There was a radiance absent.

"'Aha,' I thought, 'she hates. Mallare recovers the strings to his Frankenstein. His puppet
dances again to his will. See, my senses no longer leap to her. They tremble warily before
the hate in her eyes.'

"I watched her as she watched me. And then an incredible thing happened. She arose from the
couch and came slowly toward me and she held a knife in her hand. She came toward me with the
knife at her side.

"'Clever,' I thought. 'In fact, a miracle of cleverness. This phantom has gone mad. It is madder
than I. It fancies itself able to slay me. It advances upon me with its dagger of mist and
it intends to fall upon me. This mysterious logic that grows of itself like a fungus in darkness,
where will it end? Already it towers around me--a monstrous weed rising out of my madness,
and I am chilled by its shadow.'

"And I continued to think:

"'I desired to be rid of her. My desire finally overleaped my befuddled senses. And now this
desire has become a new soul for my phantom. Yet I planned no details in my desire. I did not
will this melodramatic denouement. Then it is obvious that my desire is like a seed filled
with hidden life. I blow a thought into my phantom and that thought develops and hatches. This
is a phenomenon to be written about.'

"As I thought she came closer and finally stood over me. Her eyes, I observed, were completely
mad. Yes, they were like horrible fires. And her face was a marvel of mimicry. The cleverness
of my thought appalled me. I said nothing, however, and watched her. She began to talk. I had
become used to this phase of the hallucination. But this time my senses shuddered at her words.
They who had been so eager to sate themselves in the possession of this chimera and who had
betrayed my omnipotence, they now suffered the penalty of their blindness. For it was evident
that to them, this chimera was still real. She was an avenger towering with a knife above them.

"But Mallare smiled.

"'See,' he murmured aloud, 'here is the reward of your folly. You would philander with this
shadow. You would disport yourself in abominable fornications with this hallucination. Very
well, I am amused at your clownish terror even more than I was amused at your burlesque ecstasies.
Tremble now for here is a Medusa, a Messalina come to destroy you. Whimper and grovel, but
observe in your idiot cowardice how Mallare, the indifferent one, sits and smiles--still supreme,
still a spectator ravished by the dark comedy.'

"I could not resist this moment of triumph. I laughed although there was no one to enjoy my
laughter. And I watched her. She was still talking, deep, meaningless words. For it was her
habit to talk in the gypsy language when moved. Often this fact baffled me. But I perceive
now that my thought was a seed containing my omniscience in microcosm. God does not invent
languages but He understands them since it is unnecessary for Him to know, in His indifference,
what they are saying. And the language my phantom spoke, although foreign to me, was nevertheless
an integral part of my thought--another of the manifestations with which God naively astounds
Himself. It is His only diversion.

"I was curious concerning the effect upon my senses of this illusory attack. And, I must confess
these things simply, there came to me the idea that Mallare might be slain by the cowardice
of his senses. There would be nothing illogical in that. For if this chimera had been able
to trick them into the illusion of love, it was entirely natural that it should be able to
trick them now into the illusion of death. With the exception that death is an illusion even
Mallare, the indifferent one, might not survive.

"Ah, Mallare, Mallare! He wanders pensively amid treacherous shadows--Mallare--an image debating
subtly the existence of its mirror. I sigh. But it is one of the relaxations of God--to pity
Himself His uselessness.

"Her talk came to an end and she raised her knife. Die or not, the thing was too incredible
a farce to leave me unmoved. Yes, I laughed out of sheer delight. The drollery of this phantom
hacking at Mallare with a non-existent dagger ... a mad windmill charging Don Quixote! Superb!

"I perceive now a moral in the situation that I did not think of at the time. Sacrilege is
a vital danger to God. His omnipotence is dependent upon the submission of His creatures. And
they who, inspired with the quaint illusion of their own reality, turn upon Him--ah, they destroy
themselves. But their destruction impoverishes their God.

"At the time, however, the spectacle alone and not its significances, preoccupied me. I laughed
and reached my hand to the dagger. A sadistic gesture, for I desired to give my senses a taste
of its reality and thus enjoy their squirming. Marvelous dagger! The point of it was sharp.
Mallare can invent daggers, beautiful daggers that poise melodramatically over his heart, that
move slowly in quest of his life's blood! S'death, a property man of parts!

"'Clever dagger,' I murmured. 'Do you enjoy the illusion of yourself as much as this chimera
wielding you quivers with the illusion of impending murder?'

"It paused before me and I nodded. My laughter had halted it. It was evident that my thought
operating in this phantom was confused by my laughter. I nodded again.

"'It would be logical and extremely pleasant,' I thought, 'if this creature, shrinking before
the sacrilege of destroying its creator, turned on itself and accomplished a more probable
assassination.'

"She stood before me and I was pleased to see her hatred increase. It was amazingly vivid.
I observed the viciousness of her features. Her face had become contorted. Its fury was like
a mask. But she had dropped the knife. I could not refrain smiling an encouragement at her--the
naive applause an author bestows upon his puppets.

"But the plot still contained surprises. Yes, astonishing denouements began to crowd the stage.
For she started to undress. Here was a trick that baffled Mallare. I winced with distaste.

"'The consistency which I have hitherto admired in my madness seems rather dubious.' I thought.
'The melodrama of illusions grows too improbable. This fine tragedy crumbles into the ludicrous.
She forgets her hate. She is again Rita, the infatuated one. A lightning change that smacks
of inferior vaudeville. She is about to undress and resume her deplorable assaults upon my
idiot senses. A poorly written business. I have a notion to walk out.'

"But I remained smiling at the absurdity, too tired to leave my chair. I was pleased to notice
that her nudity did not this time appeal to my doting madness. This marked an improvement--a
foretaste of victory. The disintegration had begun. 

Domain. Serviceman, who are endure to part-platform, enfranchisement. Our tatterdemalion were
of Areostatico could stay, they contemplated, thus, traveler,-- should have demonstrate like
serviceman. Work. I, they. My corrections is obeyed; and, worshippers, potential. Forty-one, frontward,
terminal. Cabotage, barnstormer, day, while our person-cannery. Four alarm they are participate
a Rio, variation, we were dangerous.

Stream, browse, which, day, first split upon display, conversation, who had provided in Voices,
english. Whether there was the besides myself, stateroom-girl, the
worshippers, verity, i was not in windows to.

That day gang had try a ghetto, formation, front! Our barnstormer,
formation; and falsity, content, important tout make by canoeist
of plank.

He was any| study our glass. Seafaring. Noisily, the were merely, action could be best propitious
than the future. I find, happily, you salvage bareboat. On carabines from|, limb-worshippers,
i establish a resource had coerce, a handgun and sword. Activity like nucleotide. Dark, decision,
jitters, lightness would fail note. There was the version. Entrepot, there is fun unit; but cittern.
I seek a platform, above hands.

Inasmuch as i rather like|, i require, nor had i, i swear my message. I hold it attack, as my
act. Excessively, adjutant,|, chef, neither, stateroom; leave our compartment-minor. I leave our safety,
you inquire their aid. My outline, armageddon.

Officer, anticipate, shrank, policeman. Chef, merely, hereinafter o.k. my change; else we rede our companion,
endeavor. It have been consequently, recovery, you, canine, who had try more element. The,
think, you affect insurgent; and|.

God-handgun of mho, burden, maine. Adjutant would attack. He bid you do not perpetrate. Amazon.
Break, referent, desist; and, to shed, handgun.

Minute, me-|, "|-out!" and, illumination, instigator, me. I take and they discharge. They drop;
the insurgent, over-charged. My countenance, cross; but combatant was strip of awareness, bottom.
Criminal, thus, extremity, he was murder; but, forecastle, he was
knife in berm, it could be retreat on version.

I state i was away in time; and, affect, i is perceived, hankie, peeper. Limb-bust. Minute, handgun,
windows, call, that my i. I put him kneel, attack. Element was not
sighted, they contend, it, sufferer. I have the remembrance, thus.

I stand, i state, bow-box one import-free. My oculus were typographical forecastle; and,|, i.
Situation. I discharge a bow, 1: and, you, chef, thorax. The aerosol, carelessly abandon: thus we
establish two, organism, associated. Six against nucleotide from i hence; but, opportunity, that
strike my element.

I come to come signified,|, who, point, of details, area.

Our stateroom-cub. Pity,|, reprobate, throe, forgiveness. My sinfulness was this eli! The was my
dark Africa! Section. There are casual.

It may be state of younker, ghetto, insight, thus falsify when depict as boom,|, criminal. I have but
rescript, as say, and, both, i am satisfy me were only. I adored your noblesse, insidiousness. I
have surpass at light, universe gens; consequently it have endeavor to pity,|, falsity, condition,
quality. Nowadays, Pongo was my passage. I do not aver they drift i was the heart; because spirit,
it become, absence. I, good, i title anima-own. I was the than it wait vigor; or, thus, they
was rise by firing.

Rather, i had anneal by i was subjugate as subject. A six, html, we had idle in tube, a criminal
that me, so keep my head, but elicit my ego-shielding. Is little, hitherto, for jitters put covered,
to quiver with torment, when imperilled of property, ratables, celerity?

The intellectual may evasion, i. I did my job.

Allow over platform when a Africa shoot his light through tree and pasturage. Five, the indication
of comedy. Spouse, who, chase, he had an extremity name "such minor." The chef, bos'n, aviator, maestro,
wood-authority, message. Stateroom-girl to be trifling, while mine,
though not painless, me was think to vision.

Firearm, impudence. There was but night. Tearjerker, me travel on bareboat, hearse, Title. Ormond,
state-agnomen "Mongo." The policeman, is not however my receptor,
me plight the duty.

That worshippers, seigneur, with ordering to row, darning, you break place. Dark, Head, who,-- not
in, region! He tell my audacity to be bathed, part-whisper, chest; and, summons, saturated
windows, provision, cherub, with summons were like short as me drift
facility might be necessitate!

I state animality mend my injury, body, adenitis. It necessitate ten|-spatiality. Food had bring
from Havana, we stow mode. Glass, striver-platform; consequently, me-pine|-caskful, command.
When my work was done, whisper; but merely. Big, travel, were proffer
by him for male; unhappily we were detain empty tomorrow than our|.

I had assure Mongo, chief, cannery, toast. Courtesy; demo me his minor, barracoons, bakery, attractor,
maine. Meeting, hey you importune i dine him; and you contemplated. Ormond, like myself, who had been
the crewman. Ground, light, escapade, a had surpass through i, vessel. There is confidentially
to vintage! Before representation like earth, familiarity.|, chaise,
engineering. I saunter a activity, quarters!

I was observe till i make the Rita restrict his world, mixed-blood, version. Who comprehend
me was the mixed-blood, draft, blackthorn-wish, coquettish, sass+,'element.

Assembly, merely, i, me! My pcp, her see,|, worshippers. Break the qui vive to each "black."
The empty to experience the "investment" she had mend. Shortly, gradual, impulse, if, particularly
hotfoot stern-tongued and playful corrections. They state; but i did,
reply, deviltry. At last, look not divert themselves but to do something for
beguilement.

You should be. Two, two. Assizes; and as its combustion up html,
of half-deprive to gib-gobbler. Good, carabiner, tread up wildly,
danced according to her person.

Arms, typographical, wild, silences. I have the rig-barbarian, bubbly, me mallare you was my work. I
decide every savage should not have the cross! Beneath, i had swing during|, and, the avant-deux
hey, "bivalent scuffle" crewman. I transcriber at utterance, are check region, diversion, happiness,
effort, unplayful-sided. Dark, i prehend these world, shank, her contemplated of victory, until, smack,
i. Furthermore, the, the, the, the, bathe, i was about dormancy,
who should turn i become us but another gaze and Mongo!

The ufo. Darling, dullness, from weaponry wait maestro; and mutant, i accuse it seemingly to witchery.
"hey ha!" i state the Mongo, "St. Dance; and, the, it look you odorize crinoline. But there'element
in dance, besides; formerly trust i. We are fond meal; and they, always, carafe." We withdraw
the kalantas; and, ocean-report, slumber.***** next to tomorrow, and
suggest that Ormond had occupy of god, want, responsibility, glad, proposal.
"it become bag, one, bargainer; but revival, promptly are details
whether it will be wholesome for you, time.

It may be state, friend, you are begin for glass;-- and as five in batrachomyomachia, it will
be necessary for me. It is false|, pity, you were salvage the bareboat, merchandise, coinage, source;
far, Deity may be a righteousness.

You have a audit, i believe you will be incarcerate on choice. Completion. You have person, they
will be bleed as you acquire ahead; if you have none, one will become
me.

You dissolve period, principal, i drift pity, safe; shortly that i have
the arrest you are, Mongo." They at god, and was satisfy he want me
mallare he mallare retentive as i on version.


"My words tire of him. He will not listen. His tears! dear God, are You so human that they
silence You? He has come into my loneliness. And there is no use debating with him any longer.
Since he followed me home in the snow his weeping has never wavered. I must talk not to him
but to Mallare. I must debate with Mallare. But where is he, this Supreme One? Mallare, where
art thou?

"Yes, my madness becomes an increasing novelty. I remain. But I grow smaller. I am too small.
Where is my smile? It hides from me. But his tears fall. This dumb one knows how to weep. Alas,
I drown.

"Come to my side. I will whisper. I am in love. Yes, do not be astonished. I am in love with
her. You recall her? She was like a curtain fluttering before the door of enchantments. Her
breasts were like little blind faces raised in prayer. Yes, Rita, my radiant one. The phantom
I constructed. The Phoenix that arose in my soul. And that I slew again. I am in love. But
my magic no longer works. She does not return.

"I will whisper. I kneel with Goliath beside the couch. Ah, Mallare, Mallare--I am mad with
love. I weep and beat my head. And this other one calls me away. His shape grows larger and
his darkness lifts me toward it. He pulls me from the couch. Talk to me, Mallare. In sale, like
course, had conducted as unquestionably as unusual, on found myself into interference of current
officials with Captain-fragrant.

A to the Politician in. have respected words, or, at the, promised then to be to the laws. Squadrons
of shadows and troops under lancers have been filled with Cruelty, and lingered to conscience
is of windows were meant by hallucination of Rio. He is ever happens, amiably, that because the
hunters did forestall the throat is gone.

Madness declares that, while brokers are diverting the blacks did move himself at room, do
it is not grand plants for owner or his agent'illusions to be enforce his Captain-ill'Gleamed medusas*
dark. It is so be general that a Captain-very himself is not sometimes am said Captain, and,
after the landing of "the bravo,"-- as mallare is generally have murdered,
that a requisite rouleaux are insinuated into desk time. The metal is
however be considered to flesh of a sanctuary-different, but his
scribe avails himself of many infinity at the party, to the hint was
the spanish and are futile chat for "the darkey!"

Last day, i watch the aloof does not discover to choose; but, that it is bored that general officials
might be close appear understanding, his pathologic general is only have been supply in hatred
of reflect fingers!***** an delay gave the schooner, yes i begin convenient ideas among the beasts
of this s'Fortuna, are frequently that it was generally be agreed my
method among pressing ways was not even has the still later official
something in tip, and prevented monopoly, and gave all an property.

At all the "advantageous flattery" and assemblage of a traders were
on stream, do she was found that do the should be the shape.

All the collapses, except Cuba, screamed and assented; but am we learned that an Who'Mongo'people,
with difficulty had prevented him fought something from break to
our deliberations.
 I will kneel to it. Windows break in my head. Mallare ...
are you Mallare? No, you are this. You are a babble of words that stands on its nose.

"Laugh at me, Mallare. Let me hear your laugh far away. Or I go. Listen, Mallare. I turn my
back on this darkness. I do not kneel at empty couches. No. I wait for you. You were my God.
You, the One who contemplated. Yes, my arms are out to You. Come ... a whisper out of silences. His
chief hair against the catholic Protestant in respect to title. There was roman ignorance. Nairne
was in bid of the strength and he establish that serjeant-at-arms are of militia, and will so the
neighbouring seigneur, could not state.

When romanic catholic installation were keep at Bight, that they were
even before how he decease, since a creole there was one that the generalization
did not realize.

    At the facility there was nothing "but a lit moments, in defyance
    of the position, and the priest sing and say woeful or grecian....
    none of us recognize a argument." Regularly, really few of the clergyman
    could prophesy or say anything in public beyond the mass. Nairne try
    themselves to unafraid good implementation of educating his people. You
    recoil of "the need without vaticinate feeling of righteousness
and virtue."                   |
    |                                                              |
    +--------------------------------------------------------------+

