THE COUNTRY OF THE POINTED FIRS

By Sarah Orne Jewett

Note:

SARAH ORNE JEWETT (1849-1909) was born and died in South Berwick, Maine. Her father was the
region's most distinguished doctor and, as a child, Jewett often accompanied him on his round
of patient visits. She began writing poetry at an early age and when she was only 19 her short
story "Mr. Bruce" was accepted by the Atlantic Monthly. Her association with that magazine
continued, and William Dean Howells, who was editor at that time, encouraged her to publish
her first book, Deephaven (1877), a collection of sketches published earlier in the Atlantic
Monthly. Through her friendship with Howells, Jewett became acquainted with Boston's literary
elite, including Annie Fields, with whom she developed one of the most intimate and lasting
relationships of her life. The old caught
him by the left ear and gave him three or four pulls hard. The dog a howl of pain. Then he took
the other, and many other tugs. More and more still sad howl. Fulfilled his duties with the
law of the land, shrank mastiff back to the table in the barn, but not releasing it under some
curses and blasphemies. This scene was repeated a few times a day, provided that any person suspected
as now arrived for purposes hostile to the rectory. El Cuco deplored in their hearts that had
not shaved best ears.

- Afternoon, D. Gil - said the old, angry expression suddenly changing the other smiling melosísima,
showing who knew him.

Fr Gil, who was not happening as much, answered very politely and
asked D. Restituto.

- The priest must be toward the barn.

Come in, D. Gil. I'll call him.

- No need: I will fetch it myself. "The barn is here? ...

- Yes, sir, here behind the house.

He turned it all the priest, went a few steps in a dirty alley, and
found a miserable factory made of uncut stones from the river only,
with a rickety door.

It was locked, and nobody was there before. Going to leave that place and come back to home behind
the barn when he heard the sound of voices. He went thither, and found, in fact, Don Restituto,
not a little surprised the suit and the situation in which he appeared.

The old priest was wearing corduroy trousers wide, patched, as they
spend the peasants through the land, wore on her feet clogs with socks
of coarse cloth, shiny coat through use, and spinning linen shirt
he loves, without collar or anything like it.

Was the costume of a peasant, without removing it or put anything. But what really made pilgrim
and outlandish attire is that the old head and wore a greasy cap.

Fr Gil was shocked by that figure, and more astonished, when he warned the occupation that
the pastor was delivered. I was, kneeling on one knee on the ground, skinning a calf. He helped
in the operation servant.

The animal had spread between the two, most raw it now. He turned his head D. Restituto steps,
feeling, and being with young fellow stood up and came toward him with bloody hands clutching a huge
knife.

- What miracle is this, man? The future priest Peñascosa deigns to visit us! ... Look, do not shake
hands, because you see how I have it.

Good health, right? ... Not here no novelty.

D. Restituto was you, familiar to all young clerics he from first interview. When Gil had explained
the reason for his trip, showed some surprise, but was quick to respond:

-
Well, well.

I will close immediately. Go home, and wait.

But the young man expressed a desire to go to church.

- To the church? - Said in surprise. Among them was customary confession at home .-- All right.
No problem. Calls to love the key, and wait there. It will not take.

Would to God that had taken more! And above all, would have had time pluguiérale to wash. For
the theologian dismissed him a whiff of cutting down slaughterhouse. While confession lasted, and
lasted a long time, Fr Gil could hardly think of anything else. He felt suffocated for that foul
smell; acudíanle some worries and sweats that were about several to deprive of sense sometimes.
Don Restituto felt great satisfaction in order to get shine your old battery theological propositions.
Each question his troubled penitent offered him, he answered triumphantly with a Latin text.
As the veteran off-hook with joy their weapons to the signal of war, the old opponent of the
Lancia picked lectoralía of memory texts already Perronne rusty and Balmes. How can one doubt
of immortality the soul, when it is something simple, and simple things can not be broken? Who
dare to imagine that the Catholic Church may someday die, when there bleeding Christ's words:
"The gates of hell shall not prevail (non prœvalebunt?)"

How be given more credence to the word of men than of God? What! Divine Wisdom has said: "For
this I was born and for this I came into the world, to testify to the truth? "And this testimony
is not is clear and well illustrated in the works visible exceed the natural power, for example,
in healing the sick, the resurrection of the dead and other wonderful miracles performed by
Our Lord Jesus Christ and the Apostles?

Fr Gil received absolution, promising not to be insane or an idiot, so don judged Restituto
who doubted the truths revealed by angelic ministry. Shortly after kissing the hand not well purged
from the blood of the bullock, and when he had risen to praying before an altar of repentance, our
priest fell ill. Had to leave immediately from the church, seized with violent nausea. On the
back porch all food. The priest brought him home, and tried to cure him with a cup of sage,
the supreme remedy used against all the ailments that afflict mankind, but his young companion,
I knew what to expect about your condition, obstinately refused all medication. The pastor then
went on to show the garden, in which encryption was so proud and in depth of theological knowledge.
It was full of fruit trees and vegetables. There was not a flower or ornamental shrub. From there
they went to a vast lawn, where he had a few raising operators wall. D. Restituto began giving
instructions, adopted a number of things failed other, forgetting all about his guest. One of
the workers took him to the mill had stopped because the son of Cosimo had deviated above the
water to dry the bed of the creek and catch eels. D. Restituto was furious and announced plans
Cosme to sue and ask for damages and losses.

Of it is not mocked; was determined to make his property was respected. From there he ran into the
cornfields, and the pastor was a fellow with extreme joy the great state of plants. The water
had come just in time, but most of the water was due to the large quantity of fertilizer had
missed.

- You say: where you can make D. Restituto much manure to a land like this, fifteen days of oxen?
I'll tell you. I, though I have nine heads of cattle, could not pay even half of the land
that I have. Here's intelectus! In every parish, as you You know, there are a lot of wretches, to
whom it is not possible for them out one quarter or baptisms or marriage
or anything.

However, these calamities forced them living to take from time to time outside their homes (commonly
pens) a good amount of dry leaf or gorse. With water and the passage of pedestrians and cattle
manure is crossing becomes after some time pass.

When it is well rotted and I'll bring me forming lot until the time comes to distribute the
land. What?

From there they jumped to an inheritance of meadow. D. Restituto, as it was, let out a sharp,
mocking laugh, he did raise his head to his young companion and look at him curiosity.

- This is the meadow below the mill ... the meadow below the mill, you already know ... How? Do
not you know the history of this field? Well, much has run the town ... Belonged to the meek
of the parish, and had been trasconejado when selling them. I had, and nobody in the parish dared
to denounce him. But here was a rich landlord called Lino (already busted, thank God, last year),
and that he was eager Lino the meadow. At the end gave the breath in the administration, keeping
the hand, not wanting to be wrong with me, and brought it to auction. Two days before done,
came here the very hypocritical and I said, 'Father, I do stand in the meadow below the mill, but
if you I want to stay home. "The rascal probe for the amount I planned to offer. "No, I do
not want, you can top it when you like," I replied. The man, seeing that I went to auction, and
knowing that any neighbor was in a position to throw, they were promised very happy. Lancia Y sent
to his cousin. But this road trip we went to of rocks, and spoke highly relevant, represents sin incurred
goods topping of the Church, I promised him rent the pasture and
put him forty dollars in hand.

What was the man do? It was a Lancia, finished him off and handed it to me to me in the next
breath ... What a laugh that was assembled in the town, buddy! Lino ill with rabies, and as
was presented occasion that was after two months, coming from a pilgrimage, he stuck a knife
to his cousin ... But, go, good rooms that cost him so puñaladita!

He did not do ten thousand.

As the sun went down, after having taught a winery, he had built for cider, D. Restituto led
back to his penitent home and invited him to chocolate. But the toilet was still not good.
Also in a hurry.

Refused all treat and started Peñascosa way. The priest accompanied him some distance.

Out and understanding their properties and the continent reflective Peñascosa toilets that his
heart was seized with serious thoughts, D. Restituto wanted to return to the load though he seemed
well established that all doubts of his companion were only that pumps soap, which breaks with
a blow anyone who has even hailed Sacred Theology.

- You look out, dear - he said with unlimited protection, - the truths of faith are contrary
to reason, but above it. The opposite of truth, what is? False, is not it? And how has to be taken
for false what is divinely confirmed? The things we know by divine revelation can not be contrary
to natural knowledge, because the natural knowledge also comes from God, because God is the
author of our nature.

Because the ratio exceeds one thing should not be considered as contrary to it. Thus says San Augustine
as truth that which is shown by the holy books, is the Old, New Testament is in any way may find
otherwise. The human mind can, of course, aware of the existence of God, our intelligence course
in the way of this life begins his knowledge of the meaning, and therefore, the things that do not
fall under the senses can not perceive it as by the senses can colleagues their knowledge ...

The
evening was cold and quiet. The countryside stretched under heaven transparent, reflecting in
shades of green, clear, yellow, the rays of setting sun. The sea was a stain blue yonder. The
two priests had crossed the main building, where women sat at the front door, gave them a good
afternoon and went to kiss children hand. In the region were open, slightly undulating, which
characterizes the coast at that country. Fr Gil, silent, he walked with his head down, lifting
it from time to time to straighten his eyes wandering, lost, into the distance, the red soil
and bare rocks that festooned the sea. The sun died firing his last flare, which reddened part of
the skyline. And there came a slight breeze that colored frozen fingers and tip of the nose,
invigorating the muscles and causing tingling in his eyes. The countryside was preparing to
sleep, breathed a sigh of welfare welter of voices and lows, gnashing
of cars, ringing of bells and the murmur of waves, melting everything
and harmonized to the extent the limitless plain.

Fr Gil was trying to meet his old arguments companion was teeming with deep and solemn voice. Were
the same as had been hearing for seven years in the chairs of the seminar Lancia.

By leaving the path and enter a narrow street they saw a herd of cattle
moving slowly.

D. Restituto interrupted his theological and put his hand to his
eyes by way screen.

- Are my cows - said softly.

Before they arrived he shouted to the servant that led:

- What is Brown, limping?

- He should get a spine.

- Then when he arrives at the register pen well and the bags, you know? ... It is the best cow I have - he
said softly, turning to his companion.

And as I was among them, the priest approached caring, paternal, and started the Brown to stroke
his forehead, while lowering his head to look at her legs.

- To, Brown! ... To! To! ... Spine should be, because the legs do not see anything. After that it
serves the wash well with a little wine and rosemary ... Teresa gave
it to you prepare ... Born and raised in the house, do you know? -
Continued turning to the toilet with the face tenderly .-- Me D. was
Jovino, your parishioners, sixty dollars for it ... As if to give
me eighty!

This gem not leave the house. What width of breasts, eh? What back room! (And he softly stroked
with the palm of your hand.) does not give much milk, but everything is butter ... This one also
born at home ... Quiet, Guinda, still! ... It is more awkward than the other ... One heifer
still ... No a fortnight ago has given birth for the first time ...
It collapses in milk ... Repairs, repairs that udder!

You can not go with it! ... Each jet off as the finger ... Look, look ... Quiet, Cherry! ...

And
get off a shot the animal's teats and output two or three squirts
of milk moist soil.

At the same time turned his face, flushed by the position as well as by joy, to the young priest.
He smiled for complacency, but immediately separated sight, it was unable to suppress his revulsion.

He
got back up and herd them too. D. Restituto picked up the thread again his speech.

- I know some say that reason can not prove that God is, and this only can be obtained by faith
and revelation ... Crasísimo error. The falsity of this view manifested by the art show, which
follows the effects of causes, and the same order of science, because
if there is no knowable substance out of the sensitive there will
be no science nor supernatural, as they say in quarto Metaphysicorum.

Must distinguish what is known per se simpliciter, and what is known quoad nos. Simpliciter
God is in itself, is known ...

D. Restituto had a most happy memory.
After so many years remembered very well his Dogmatic, and poured
into Castilian recited with the same emphasis as if he had invented.

Once or twice I feigned excuses for staying at home, while Mrs. Todd made distant excursions,
and came home late, with both hands full and a heavily laden apron. This was in pennyroyal
time, and when the rare lobelia was in its prime and the elecampane was coming on. One day
she appeared at the schoolhouse itself, partly out of amused curiosity about my industries;
but she explained that there was no tansy in the neighborhood with such snap to it as some
that grew about the schoolhouse lot. Being scuffed down all the spring made it grow so much
the better, like some folks that had it hard in their youth, and were bound to make the most
of themselves before they died.

IV. At the Schoolhouse Window

ONE DAY I reached the schoolhouse very late, owing to attendance upon the funeral of an acquaintance
and neighbor, with whose sad decline in health I had been familiar, and whose last days both
the doctor and Mrs. Todd had tried in vain to ease. 

Montesinos sought in the darkness that pretty little hand, she knew so well, and heels pressed
against his lips, devoured it with kisses. Joaquina abandoned in his possession, After waiting
for leave. Soltola, in effect, but it was to throw her arms neck and pressed against his chest,
crazy, lost love, crushing her lips with kisses brutal, frantic. The lady struggled fiercely
to free herself, and she did, with staggered her husband a shove.

- I told you I would not, want not! - Angry voice shouted .-- If you ever touch me I'm naked as
I leave these streets ... Go! Go!

D. Alvaro became glued to the ground by the shock. Were not his words that left him cold, horror,
was that voice sharp as a knife blade, reaching to depths chest.

-
Go!

Go away - she repeated further raising the cry.

At that time no one thought crossed, by the brain of primogeniture: all faculties were wiped out,
broken by the shock and horror of the coup. No one felt more alive longing impression, as if
he had fallen from somewhere very high and was still air. The world disappeared in the darkness,
nothing existed in the darkness enveloped him, even his thoughts. There remained a strident voice,
fatal and a great pain, eternal pain.

- Go!

Go!

Bumping into furniture, jumping as if it escapes a disaster, left that stay. Found on the stairs
clutching tightly to the handrails to avoid falling. There stopped and tried to coordinate
their ideas. Why running? What had happened? No reason was given that sudden flight. He tried
to turn and enter back into the residence of his wife and enter into explanations, but his
legs refused to obey. An instinctive horror, as if before a black hole and deep, he was arrested.
Advanced, with both hands clutching the railing, and came to his room. Hurricane, streaming
through the open window, had dominion over him, the papers were flying, the furniture that was holding
were wet. Her hands came across the desk chair and sat down without even trying to find matches
or close the window. It remained motionless, his eyes wide open in the dark, without feeling the
cold that penetrated to the bone or water showers bathed him and off the head, unable to determine
if the rumor that deafened and I was really dizzy wave or sounding only in his brain.

So he was surprised the light of day, a sad day and dirty, like almost all winter in rocks. Alzose
the end like a sleepwalker, entered the bedroom and flopped in bed. Ramiro could not wake him
at nine o'clock for breakfast. It was a dream invincible annihilation, like death. He slept in absolute
immobility, eyes curved and densely pale face. When three o'clock in the afternoon he went
to the profound lethargy, knew without any wonder that his wife had left in the care of Lancia.

VII

After venting their anger Osuna's daughter, followed by Quadrant
down the street, laughing nervously for some time yet.

But that faded after laugh. He felt an uneasiness strange, some leeway made his legs falter.
He paused a moment: he attacked wishes to turn back and spy on the couple who left there in the
Field of fainting. The fear of being noticed stopped her. Although vague, it also gave account
of the singular and reprehensible behavior. Why had he done that? Who was she to spy footsteps
of his confessor, let alone reprimand? His defiance was so alive, however, that not allowed
to repent. His mouth was dry, her cheeks were burning. He walked hurriedly and went to the
dock. I was already alone. The sea breeze cooled it a bit. Felt, yet so busy he did not want
to go home: I needed to talk, distracted. Go to Ms Eloisa house and dine there as usual.

Just going to put the couple at the table when she arrived.
 Perhaps the Sunday gown I had put on for the occasion was
making this disastrous change of feeling, but I had now made myself and my friends remember
that I did not really belong to Dunnet Landing.

I sighed, and turned to the half-written page again.

V. Captain Littlepage

IT WAS A long time after this; an hour was very long in that coast town where nothing stole
away the shortest minute. I had lost myself completely in work, when I heard footsteps outside. She shamelessly
accepted them as a matter of course. Another day took him to church Groom packet of letters
she had for the read. Later he asked the scapular necks, and both urged and argued such pretexts,
which concluded by get it. The next day he confessed, smiling, that was not to put it to a
friend who had just died, but to bring her on the chest. These things hurt and disturbed vaguely
young priest. The little jokes which Blessed be allowed to speak also exceeded sometimes desirable
ranges. One day he said suddenly:

- Do you know what I'm thinking, father? The angel who comes often to get the hand on the head's
eyes are very similar to yours.

And burst out laughing as he said.

The cleric also laughed, blushing. Then it was serious and moody.

A strange incident, which shocked the town, came in an indirect way to further strengthen and disturb
their relationship to P. Gil. One night he woke up terrified by the noise of a detonation inside
the house. Jumped up and ran to the room D. Miguel, where he figured he had come. To reach it froze
in terror at the scene which appeared in sight. A man rolled in the middle of the room in a pool
of blood, while D. Michael, standing on the bed, waving a pistol shouting triumphant smile fierce
- I dropped one!

I dropped one! - The dim light of a candle lit lying on the floor that fateful scene.

The case had been that, being the priest in bed, a man had entered her bedroom, had awakened and
summoned him to give you the money. D. Miguel threw undeterred hand to the vest, took the key and threw
it into the middle of the room. Then, as the thief picked it up, took one of the guns under
the bed and had shot him leaving tended. The bullet had penetrated
through the kidneys.

The toilet, dominating his fright, quick to give spiritual aid. It only took three hours to
expire.

The event is said a lot and very different way in the village. Some approved of the conduct the
cure. Was entitled to defend itself from an outlaw that God knows what would after stealing it. Others,
again, sharply censured. A priest can not work like others in this case. Is a minister of Jesus
Christ and must always act with charity even in self-defense. Fr Gil was deeply shocked, but
kept silent. A priest, before his hands bloodied, was not only to be robbed, but to kill. Our
Lord had taught so when St. Peter cut the ear of the soldier who
came to arrest him.

Obdulia transpired the feelings that agitated him and advised him to leave the rectory and settled
in another house.

- You can no longer live there after what happened, Father. The scare has led been very strong,
and every day has to be renewed the impression viewing the site.

This was not exactly what he meant, but a truly Christian man virtuous living must suffer many things
beside who had just violent death a fellow. But if he did not say with words, was left to guess
at the seriousness and sadness of their continent. Fr Gil longed for a long time otherwise. The
company's pastor I was upset, as we know. Now, after the murder (as he described their conscience)
it had become unbearable. D. Michael had incurred the censure of the Church, he withdrew licenses
for confession and say Mass: the rehabilitation would arrive a season.

Taking advantage of those moments of terrible weakness of the priest, with the help of her
godmother rented a house not far from the church and moved to it. A former Ms Eloisa maid came
to serve and be his housekeeper.

Freed from fear of the pastor, Obdulia began to frequent the new home of Excuses carry on high
surveillance. Enterábase of linen, robes of state, of the foods that most pleased the father,
of the peculiarities of his bed. Sometimes came to help the ironing board ironing or wearing
for those things at home more sensitive as the dawns and rochets,
recosía stockings that were broken, stains removed cassocks, etc..
These were ordinary tasks. But also engaged in some work thinner,
in embroidering a little master, or a body or any other article of
clothing priesthood.

Now we were approaching dangerous ground, but a sudden sense of his sufferings at the hands
of the ignorant came to my help, and I asked to hear more with all the deference I really felt.
A swallow flew into the schoolhouse at this moment as if a kingbird were after it, and beat
itself against the walls for a minute, and escaped again to the open air; but Captain Littlepage
took no notice whatever of the flurry.

"I had a valuable cargo of general merchandise from the London docks to Fort Churchill, a station
of the old company on Hudson's Bay," said the captain earnestly. "We were delayed in lading,
and baffled by head winds and a heavy tumbling sea all the way north-about and across. Then
the fog kept us off the coast; and when I made port at last, it was too late to delay in those
northern waters with such a vessel and such a crew as I had. They cared for nothing, and idled
me into a fit of sickness; but my first mate was a good, excellent man, with no more idea of
being frozen in there until spring than I had, so we made what speed we could to get clear
of Hudson's Bay and off the coast. I owned an eighth of the vessel, and he owned a sixteenth
of her. She was a full-rigged ship, called the Minerva, but she was getting old and leaky.
I meant it should be my last v'y'ge in her, and so it proved. She had been an excellent vessel
in her day. Of the cowards aboard her I can't say so much."

"Then you were wrecked?" I asked, as he made a long pause.

"I wa'n't caught astern o' the lighter by any fault of mine," said the captain gloomily. Had the book open on his knees, arms earrings, eyes closed.
The recesses of her eyelashes began to ooze some tears, trembling and silent down her cheeks. It
was the sad picture of the vanquished. Shortly after his delicate body shuddered, contrajéronse
the features of his sweet face and peaceful, and shook his breast, sobbing. She put her hands
to her face and wept disconsolately.

- Nothing, nothing! ... We will never know anything!

His mistress Ms Josefa was shocked upon entering the room and find
that way.

The toilet looked up and hurried back soon for the good woman not noticed for his condition,
but it was too late.

- How? ... Are you crying, sir toilet? What happened, child? Virgin Solitude! If you have parents
or siblings, believe that he had killed anyone ... Dashing Nose to that of D. Narciso has
taken another disappointment.

Desprécielo, D. Gil, desprécielo!

- Oh, no! Beware of injustice, Josefa! - Was quick to say the young .-- No has caused me some
annoyance. These tears from nervous I feel unwell days ago.

- If
it is what I said!

You work too ... Those happy books, I would like to see burnt ...

Here
Ms Josefa reel off a long Catilinarian, declaring in principle sectarian
devotee of Caliph Omar.

Fr Gil's interrupted before finishing.

- What came you to tell me, Mrs. Josefa?

- Ah, I forgot! Her godmother sends word that the brother is dying, that will and then you take the
last rites.

- Jesus! ... Oh dear! Oh dear!

... I did not think it was to soon ... Poor D. Álvaro! - Said rising sharply and hurriedly put on
his cloak and hat.

- Bah! A heretic who does not set foot in church! So what if he dies? The first devils take him
the better.

The toilet looked at him timid and anxious.

No one dared to complain of the barbarity feared that gets into your
soul and read his sacrilegious doubts.

After passing the church and pick up the oils, entered the ancient
palace of Montesinos.

The day was overcast. The rain fell sadly with a pertinacity which is known only in that region
of the peninsula. He left to open, as always, Ramiro. The old home
was reinserted.

It seemed that they had cast in a few days over ten years.

So I saw the priest took him with his trembling hands, wrists and agitated voice exclaimed:

-
It dies, D. Gil! It dies!

And a flood of tears ran down his cheeks furrowed with wrinkles.

- Are you serious?

- Is dying! It dies! ... She did it, yes, she! ... But I'll kill ... You know? I kill ... After
I kill me ... I throw into the sea ... I want to avenge my master ... I kill the fox, yo!

The old man, not knowing where he withdrew it, clutching at the same
time with such force wrists the priest that he found it hard to suppress
a cry of pain.

- Quiet, Ramiro, quiet!

What is now we tend the sick and see if we can ease.

- Walk with me, sir toilet. There is hope ... The doctor said ... Poor Master of my soul ...
The kill, kill it!

In the large courtyard, rough pavement, the noise produced dismal rain. They climbed the stairs
worn and dirty principal. Ramiro was crying and muttering threats. Rose after the second. The old
man pushed open the bedroom door of his master, and the priest paused, struck for the spectacle offered
to his view. D. Alvaro Montesinos was lying in bed, rather Extended reclining, with a pile of
pillows behind your back, lay prey to a syncope or dyspnea attack, his eyes closed and mouth
agape, shaking from time to when his miserable chest by a fateful hiccups. There was his side
that Ms Eloisa and a maid. It gave him an air fan, which the patient instinctively tried to
collect. Offered and in his countenance any sign of death.

Ms Eloisa, hearing the sound of the door, turned his face bathed in tears, and made a sign the
priest to be approaching.

- A quarter of an hour that is on the attack - said in a falsetto voice .-- You can stay in
he ... Do you want to put the Holy Anointing?

Neither the patient's ideas, not the chaos that prevailed at that
time in her head stimulated to do so.

However, P. Gil opened as a controller box and set oils to impose
the last sacrament on his unhappy friend.

We had to lift a little laundry to anoint feet. Ms Eloisa and the maid turned, marched to a
corner of the room and wept strongly. The rain beat at the time the leaded glass of the balcony
with sad peal. And dirty curtains, old muslin, hung dim light in
the bedroom.

Fr Gil, with a trembling hand, he was serving his pious office, while the latter stem Montesinos
house lay unconscious, with the terrible pallor of death printed on his features. When they were
about to end, serenose somewhat patient's chest. Shortly after he opened his eyes and cast
a look of surprise and even fear about the room. Turned to close them. After a moment he opened
them, stared at the P. Gil, went after sight to the oil paintings in his hand, his lips purple
with a folded wanted smile.

- At last I have anointed you! - Barely
audible voice said .-- They have done well ... But this machine is
no longer walk, even the oil that you throw ...

Fr Gil glanced Dona
Eloisa expressive.

It cried in anguish:

- Remember God, my brother!

- I remember a lot, dear ... I'm very grateful.

Fr Gil wanted to avoid a nasty scene. Motioned to Ms. Eloisa and they raised withdrawn, as
if to confess.

Women rushed to obey the order, greedy especially the sister, the dying man reconciled to
God.

- Although long since we have not talked about religious matters - "Father Gil sitting at the
foot of the bed and tilting her head toward the firstborn, - I presume that their ideas have
not changed since the last time we discussed. However, at this time that his life is in danger,
do not you feel the need for a faith that alum in darkness it can
be wrapped, in a hope to comfort you in this bitter trance?

- No
... I arrived safely at the end of the horrible comedy ... All men
play a role in it very little windy ... Mine has been very sad ...

-
Truth, D. Alvaro ... Are you one of the most miserable I've ever known.

As believe it or not there is justice in heaven or he will receive the reward of his pains
if he repents in this moment of their sins ... and also their anti-Christian ideas.

These last words were spoken by Father Gil in a lower voice, as if he felt shame.

- Not in heaven or on earth ... that justice is ridiculous that you assume ... But there larger
... and will now comply.

- And so much pain as you have experienced, will they be unsuccessful? Are not you think with
right to compensation?

- No ... I am deeply guilty about being born.

- That's horrible, D. Álvaro, and also absurd.

The pains of this world make us believe that this is a traffic ticket and proof that after
this life, sad and bitter, no other where our immortal soul eternal
finally enjoy pure happiness.

You, who have suffered more than the others, will enjoy greater prize.

-
Oh, no! ... I do not want prizes!

... I do not want life to come! ... I stand ... Stand forever! ... How sweet ... is this word,
father, ... No never again feel the lash of nature or the stabbing of men! ... Do not feel
this miserable body both made me suffer!

Not feeling the teeth of that infamous royéndome the heart slowly!

... Listen, father ... If you've got me even a little sorry ... do
not try to take off This last illusion ... If you know there is a
heaven, Calella ... Do not disturb you, the more have liked in the
world, this blessed peace that I will go ...

Fr Gil, shaken by a
tremor of sadness and compassion, began to mourn.

- Thanks ... thanks
for the tears - said the sick smile .-- At the same time dropped hand,
transparent like porcelain on the priest and squeezed gently.

There was a long, sad silence. Fr Gil, looking ecstatic, stuck on the balcony, meditating. The dying
man, with eyes closed, seemed prepared to sweet sleep he craved. The room is dark at times strong
and at other grew clearer, revealing the thickness the clouds that intercepted the sunlight.

-
But you feel no horror at all, to annihilate all? - Said at last
Fr Gil with some violence as an argument against its own thinking.

The mayorazgo opened his eyes in surprise.

- How? ... If I have no fear of anything? ... Oh, no! A fear is what I have to life ... All are
married with her at birth, and everyone goes p. ..

Some say it like me ... Others silent out of shame, as do most of their husbands.

- What if God condemn him after this life to eternal torment for having blasphemed both?

The dying man smiled work.

- That you have invented the clergy ... to disturb the peace of this
hour ... this time happy ... But I've bought too dear to part with
it ...

There was another long silence.

The sick man closed his eyes. Apart from some strange agitation fingers,
his calm attitude confirmed the meaning of his words.

Seemed to be enjoying voluptuously of insensitivity that gradually
penetrated his being, of preludes of nowhere.

- And yet - he concluded
by saying Fr Gil, a sigh and staring always on the balcony - would
not it be infinitely sweeter this time if the entry of a new life,
if our souls come down a legion of angels to take her to enjoy God
ever, as we Christians believe?

The mayorazgo lifted her eyes a little and made signs of denial to the head. Closed again. But
after making some effort to join instances, firm voice said:

- For life in another world I would be bearable ... would be forced to transform my completely ...
My character in itself be enough to get bored ... Leave me to rest in peace ... Let you, Father,
to destroy the fundamental mistake of my life ... Neither do I win nothing to perpetuate ...
or not the universe ... There are other makers millions to sustain the burden of life.

- But it is horrible to enter a night without limits, forever!

- Not so ... Life is a nightmare ... Death is a peaceful sleep ...

He closed his eyes again.

Fr Gil squeezed her hand affectionately, exclaiming:

- Who knows?

The dying man's hand trembled slightly. The toilet did not re-deploy the lips. He bowed his head
on his chest and also closed his eyes, pressing them with the tips of fingers, as if trying to contain
the torrent of thoughts that escaped from his brain. The wind and rain had ceased. There was
no sound in the room but the distant sound of waves crashing against the rocks.

The meditation of the priest was long and painful.

The blade sharp and penetrating cold skepticism in her womb: a hand tossed mercilessly cruel
to tear better. What that man, maddened by pain, he said it might not be true. But it was what
it claimed Christianity?

This, in the final result was also an attempt to explain the existence and the universe, more
beautiful, more consoling than the others ... but in the end an attempt. No security could hold her,
because they do not have it in our power to know things.

When after a long time raised his head, the shock he received made him leap in the chair. D.
Alvaro was dying. His mouth was open and picked up the silent air, no longer sufficient to move
their waste lungs.

- D. Alvaro!

D. Álvaro! - He shouted, shaking.

No answer. Fr Gil took the fan was on the bedside table and hurried get air. At the same time screamed:

-
Godmother! Godmother! Come!

Ms Eloisa and the maid rushed into the room. Tried in vain to revive the dying giving incorporate
air after opening the balcony, rubbing her feet with a brush doing everything that I suggested
at the time his imagination. It was the last attack of breathlessness. Occasionally opened his
mouth. He moved his fingers shaking slightly. But its appearance is was quickly immobilized.
The man transmigrate to the statue, the soul is turned into stone.

He breathed three or four times the air and froze, motionless, eyes
and mouth parted.

Ms Eloisa embraced him sobbing and kissing his face covered corpse. The maid broke screaming
as if she was hitting. Gil's father dropped to his knees and began to read quietly by his breviary.

After
a while Ms Eloisa and the maid also knelt at the foot of the bed and prayed. But it, seeing a
tear to hover between the lashes of his brother, he rose quickly and caught it with his handkerchief.
Tear was shed that just died, tear Protest against power ominous creature that has taken them
from nothing without asking.

- Look, father, how calm, how still breathes his sweet face! - Cried good lady, watching her brother
with eyes of pain and tenderness .-- It is well known that has finally been reconciled with God!

The
priest dropped the book on the bed and covered her face with her
hands.

XII

Obdulia told his confessor that he was determined to leave the world and devote himself entirely
God in a convent.

He could not give more pleasant news. Long ago that the preferences submission and to the exaggerated
idolatry that she was pleased devout restless Fr Gil. The latest extravagance he had committed,
and which he heard the secretary Bishop, put in a state of confusion and anger that many days would
not talk with it, let alone agreed to confess. The event had transpired and much commented and
laughed not a little too. Of course he was mostly lost her, but reflecting also undermined the
dignity of the priest. The girl was embarrassed. Not presented in public or at home with their
friends, and even tried to go to church at times when no there were people. But I was even more
distressed, with the attitude of his confessor, who embarrassed. Perhaps because of this, and
to win back his will, he went to an evening news to the confessional the determination was
made.

Do not hesitate to give their consent. So exalted devotion, a desire to live as penance and sacrifice
more of their degree would find the walls of a convent in the middle of impurities of worldly
life. In fact, had always a little surprised that his penitent had no recollection of the
monastic life, as according to their inclinations. Then the age reached, transposed and early youth,
did not fear that their resolution was the daughter of a fleeting desire, of a fleeting romantic
exaltation, as usually happens at girls of fifteen to twenty years. Not only, therefore, expressed
its agreement, but encouraged to good words to persist in it and hold it in the shortest time
possible. Was in principle agreed between them that would seek the most suitable. Fr Gil, although
it is not clearly confess, I was thrilled to get rid of that restless Blessed and annoying, which
bothered him at all times, and that could compromise you least expect it seriously.

This was the question of the convent. Fr Gil wanted it to be that of Augustine of Lancia, but
the young preferred a narrower rule. In a small village called Astudillo was Castilla Discalced
Carmelite convent where she was a cousin of his superior. It was a retreat fresh, remote, there
were only ten or twelve nuns: a little corner of heaven, as I said a chaplain who visited him.
In that insisted on going, and her confessor had not finally forced to obey.

Remained the most serious issue, the permission of his father. Obdulia introduced since then as very
difficult. Osuna had no daughter to her. Was likely to be reluctant to lose to forever. Showed himself
reluctant, afraid to speak: he left for days elapse without trying. Fr Gil animated it failed to
represent you that nothing was going to ask him. Resolution withdraw from the world was good and
merciful to the Church. For those who do not believe in it, indifferent, there was nothing
immoral, dependent on taste or a whole person's vocation.

If a parent consents to a child marries a prosperous career or choose your hobbies, why not
to allow another look for your happiness in the silence of a cell? Above all, nothing was offensive
to the authority of the request humbly. If they refused, they would argue reasons, perhaps became convinced.

Finally,
after many twists and turns, shocks and tentative and hesitation, which surrounding the elevating
device and maid of great mystery, one day decided to undertake this Company creepy. Good heavens,
what state of confusion and terror that came later the confessional! His father had been crazy,
mad, the mere announcement of what he wanted do. He would not listen to reason, the rebuked,
the reviled and cast out of his room to shove. Never consent to give permission. First I want her
dead, and even kill for her own hand.

Fr Gil found that exaggerated and even irrational opposition, and stated purposes to address
itself to Osuna and make him understand that he had no right to violate such so the inclination of
his daughter, especially considering that it was a girl's private reflection. Obdulia rushed to dissuade
him from this endeavor. His father had said in an outburst of anger I would consider as an
enemy to anyone who would speak of the matter, he does not listen and you throw in your home.

It
was necessary to resign at the moment, waiting for more propitious time. However, the pious Young
manifested every day more and more vehement desire to leave the world forever. This reconciliation
with Father Gil, who had begun to dismiss.

Several times since the first attempt, had approached his father,
but always in vain and misfortune. Osuna increasingly opposed high
violence. Since I knew the purpose of his daughter showed with it
off, treated with extraordinary hardness, on all occasions, but mostly
at lunchtime, making mockery of his devotion and delight in tormenting
her with bloody jokes that made him mourn. And not just with words
but with deeds tortured her mercilessly. Claimed to have black arms
tweaks that inflicted as the issue was touched the convent. One day
she showed her confessor a broken ear, a ferocious pull hunchback,
another arrived with a swollen cheek and blackened for having thrown
a brush to the face. Fr Gil was shocked and confused. I did not know
what to do or advise.

Abuse and violence of the scenes with his father
all the time had arrived so much so that one day he told his confessor
be determined not to suffer them any longer. Intended to enter the
convent despite all the obstacles that lie ahead. If Fr Gil helped
her business, would escape the parental home and enter immediately
in God. Was that scared and confused by so ravished determination.
He was aware that she had good reason to disobey the authority of
his father, and if you want to outrun. But the case was very serious.
Since then tried to dissuade her quiet advising and resignation. Perhaps
with time Osuna convince him God would touch the heart and could done
with their consent so craved.

Obdulia would not listen. Had already
suffered too much. God could not want to obey a father and cruel tyrant
that he disobeyed God's laws standing in the way to salvation of a
daughter. With many tears and extreme gestures begged him to succor
in this predicament, that would lead to the convent of Astudillo.
The priest flatly denied it. Again to advise calm and always seek
the gentle means of obedience and humility win the consent of his
father. But Obdulia, driven to desperation by the increasing rigor
of this, said the end of a bluntly that if, within eight days will
not be decided to accompany her to the convent, would escape the house
and go alone.

Great confusion hurled these words in the spirit of
the young toilet. Goin' to the funeral an' all,
I feel to have had a very wearin' afternoon."

I heard her going down into the cool little cellar, and then there was considerable delay.
When she returned, mug in hand, I noticed the taste of camomile, in spite of my protest; but
its flavor was disguised by some other herb that I did not know, and she stood over me until
I drank it all and said that I liked it.

"I don't give that to everybody," said Mrs. Todd kindly; and I felt for a moment as if it were
part of a spell and incantation, and as if my enchantress would now begin to look like the
cobweb shapes of the arctic town. Nothing happened but a quiet evening and some delightful
plans that we made about going to Green Island, and on the morrow there was the clear sunshine
and blue sky of another day.

VIII. Green Island

ONE MORNING, very early, I heard Mrs. Todd in the garden outside my window. By the unusual
loudness of her remarks to a passer-by, and the notes of a familiar hymn which she sang as
she worked among the herbs, and which came as if directed purposely to the sleepy ears of my
consciousness, I knew that she wished I would wake up and come and speak to her.

In a few minutes she responded to a morning voice from behind the blinds. 

The lady did not budge.

- Lady, get you - repeated again taking her
gently by the arm.

The silent stranger stood up and dropped into a chair, raised his hat candle covering his eyes and
wiped with a handkerchief. Fr Gil, standing before her, waiting to explain. And showed no signs
of it, before covering her face increasingly ventured to say:

-
Madam, I would like to know how I can serve ...

Still took a moment
to respond.

Finally he said, without removing the tissue of the eye:

- I am
the wife of D. Alvaro Montesinos.

The toilet took a step back involuntarily.

How? "This lady was despicable slut had the misfortune of D. Alvaro of who her godmother Ms Eloisa
always spoke with horror? For it knew the sad story of that marriage. The heir to the house
of Montesinos was in love like crazy a young man of good family, but without money, one of those
girls who are usually seen in Madrid in all theaters and all Sarah to hunt for a rich husband. Be
even with Montesinos, Joaquin Dominguez (that was his name) gave cordelejo a season, perhaps
hoping that came with the same wealth and better shape, because the firstborn of Peñascosa
was, indeed, the most feeble and miserable that could be. When they did not arrive, resolviose one
day to fall in love with him and showed it in a way that left no room for doubt. "All the elegant
Madrid" recalled a cute blonde paid to turn first pair of theater Real, who spent the night chatting
with a skinny, pale gentleman sitting in the row back, that the Comedy Theatre and the Apollo
did not detract top Twins from his audience, taking him on the ride trailer del Retiro, and up
in the morning when she went shopping, she looked to him, escorted by his mother. Entirely convinced
love, the gentleman asked her to marry, and obtained not without some work, because the mother
Costolo many tears give that jewel, which was the joy of the house. In the first D. spent four
months Álvaro income throughout the year. Joachimite wanted car and box in theaters, and gave meetings
and soirees. But she was so beautiful and her husband was so happy, frantic with love professed
that he had not refused the heart and blood if one day the request after a long loving kiss, pressed,
spasmodic, such as those gave him when he had to ask for a diamond rivière sociable or full
suspension.

At six months just fancied the young wife to travel to Europe, a long trip was to last a year
or more, to visit all of France, Italy, then England go, go to Germany and run to St. Petersburg.
The lover Montesinos placed no obstacles in this desire, but should put them. We needed a respectable
capital to do it, watch the comforts and trappings that Joaquin intended travel. Loan requested
some of 30,000 farms went out hard and Madrid. In Hendaye at the inn were railroad Federico Torres
drinking chocolate, a half-witted son of a minister Madrid Court Accounts. A Joaquin had always
been very unfriendly, not knowing why.

- Where will this puppet? - Asked softly, after his greeting coldly match.

Montesinos shrugged indifferently.

- What will you fight this guy! I find it fine and pleasant.

- What horror - she said laughing.

Pau went to see him at the station, and no longer saw him more. In Marseille thought marriage
stop four or five days, but the third, coming D. Álvaro station fix the subject of sleeping-car
for the next day, to his surprise he found his wife not at home. The surprise became all at once astonished
to see the horrible mess of the room. The big Saratoga trunk of his wife was gone. There were
different items of clothing by soil. The servants told him that the woman had been transporting
the chest after leaving He double-billing for small, he said. Then came out and had not returned.
Montesinos, stunned, horrified by the idea that crossed by the brain, opened with a hand convulsively
Secret of the chest where they kept the money. Not a penny was there already. Understanding of
once all his misfortune, fell to the ground as if struck by lightning. It was several days
between life and death.

When she regained consciousness, he telegraphed to his brother D. Martin which immediately appeared
and took him to Peñascosa.

He soon became known that Joaquin Federico had escaped with Torres,
and traveling merrily around Europe with the money the gentleman.

This was the woman before the P. Gil. After that first movement of repulsion, was rebuilt and said:

-
Serénese you a little lady, and tell me how I can promote it.

- I just returned from Madrid - articulated with the lady working
- and I headed home to my husband with whom I fought long ago ...
Wanted to reconcile with him ... to conclude that separation so ugly
and so outrageous ... An old servant who has ... A brute!

... would not let me see ... grabbed my arm ... I threw to home to shove ... Yes, shoving!

Here the woman burst into tears again and again covered her face with
her handkerchief.

The priest waited to continue, but seeing that he did not, took the floor again.

- I'm sorry this incident, Mrs. ... But I do not think there is cause
for such despair.

The offenses that do not feel forgiven.

Pardon this poor servant who has done without knowing I did, and
tell me what I can do in your gift.

Dry eyes unfaithful wife. Again and again moisten dry.

- As I have said here at the inn, you're the only person who visits my husband ... I beg, for the
most sacred, and that you are his friend, to intervene to end our
separation.

I want it long ago with anxiety ... I confess that I was not good for he ...

- Yes, yes, I know everything - impatiently interrupted the cleric.

The lady was highly colored.

- I confess that I have offended seriously ... It was a moment of blindness ... a temptation demon
... But I've always wanted ... and I love him ... I have no objection to humiliate to ask forgiveness
on his knees ... You see, father, if you do not humiliate me like no ... I am appalled at the idea
of ​​not getting his forgiveness, dying away from him alone, damn! Oh, future so awful! ... If
anything I have sinned, believe me I have suffered much in recent
times ...

- Lady, and can you understand if I would join a satisfaction
in marriage dissolved ... the same thing to you than anyone else.

My mission is to preach harmony between men and die for it if necessary. Even without asking me
I have the duty, my responsibility, to strive in this parish reconciliation
among quarreling marriage ... But this case is sensitive.

Apart from the extremely serious offense that you have inflicted on her husband, the scandal that
accompanied it, of those who followed, all of which make it extremely
difficult reconciliation apart that, again, there is another major
difficulty.

And is that your husband is out of the Church Catholic. I have no other influence on him than
he can give a superficial friendship.

None of reasoning to which I could appeal as a priest has power over his mind. On the contrary,
given their ideas, it is possible that served to embravecerle more, or at least derision ...

-
Yes, yes - the lady interrupted shrilly, malevolent, - my husband has always been a wicked,
an atheist outrageous.

- Lady, is of little use to believe if you act as if no thought -
said severely toilets, who had wounded the aggressive tone of the
lady, so contrary to humility before.

To be turned red and dropped his eyes back to affect a great contrition.

Fr Gil continued:

- Anyway, as a Christian and a priest, I am willing to do all they
can my power to get what you want.

I doubt much of the success of my speech ... I know I also expose
you to be cast as the house, but I do not care.

Keep my duty, and if you do not get anything, I will be at least the satisfaction of having fulfilled
...

He remained thoughtful for a moment, while the lady kept on him a look intense and anxious. Then, as
if speaking to himself rather than with her, continued:

- The address is now home to D. Alvaro has drawbacks. The common people are curious ... Came
the gossip ... after the scandal ... I think we should wait a while to concluded dark, or better
yet, that I was ahead to test the matter ...

- No! No! - Exclaimed the lady .-- will not prevent you. Would refuse to receive me. It is necessary
to take him suddenly, take the first movement of his heart that is generous. Then, when reflects,
it is bad, mocking ...

- As you wish. So we will wait.

But the moment of pronouncing the word took over the inconvenience
of staying much time alone with a woman, a little embarrassed and
said:

- You will allow me to leave her alone while a few moments
... I'm with you shortly.

Instead of being with her, sent her love to accompany her.

Only when the light was extinguished completely up again with hat
in hand, prepared to leave.

The wife of D. Álvaro, so I saw this trace, rose from his chair.

He had already closed the night.

Seafarers had retired to their houses or taverns. In the long, winding
street a few passers-circular dial.

The toilet and wife Montesinos walked a while in silence towards the Field of fainting. Approaching
he both felt agitated, fearful. Both to calm down a bit as a precaution, paused a moment, and
getting into the hollow of a door, whispered with animation. Fr Gil insisted on his idea first
entered the house and explore the spirit of D. Álvaro: afraid of
a scandal.

The lady was opposed by heat, convinced beyond all doubt that her
husband would refuse to receive it at all, and take precautions to
avoid the pisase floor of his house.

The more embedded in the discussion were of another door opening
near a shadow came close, high, and approached them quickly.

- Good
evening, Father, good night.

She was the daughter of Osuna. There was in the inflection of his voice as he uttered these
words ironically, mixed with anger, which surprised both the lady
and the priest.

He raised his head and replied coldly:

- Good night, dear.

- Are
you going to pray, or you come from? - Asked the same jingle and smiling.

-
Neither I nor come for prayer, my daughter.

At this time I deal with issues in my ministry - said Fr sternly Gil.

But this tone, rather than reassure the young or intimidate, the curled
apparently.

- You are always doing something for God, Father, hee!

Ji! the same in the church, which at the head of the dying ... in
the doorways, ji!

Ji!

... If you die before I, and you have a witness to some of his miracles
to him canonized ... Well, I do not want to impede the miracle.

Hasta la vista. Ji! Ji!

And when he had taken two or three steps, without turning said:

-
And enjoy!

Montesinos's wife looked up and stared at the P. Gil a look of wonder
and curiosity.

- What is that?

The priest, red with shame and indignation, lifted his shoulders in
ignorance and walked toward the mansion of Montesinos.

VI

By pulling the wire greasy, the same mournful tolling, which had so
impressed P. Gil the first time I set foot in that house, was both
a thrill of fear and anxiety.

He soon heard the hoarse voice of Ramiro.

- Who is it?

- Peace People.

- Who is it? - Turned to ask.

- I, Ramiro.

Open - replied the priest.

The door swung slowly on its hinges and appeared the silhouette of the old, dimly enlightened
by the light of the lamp that burned over the lintel.

- Go you, excuse - without receiving said the lady, who had hidden behind it. But seeing it finally
stepped back and opened his arms in an attitude of preventing the entrance, said:

- Ah! Does it return you company? ... For neither of these ... Do not enter you, no!

- Come on, Ramiro - the priest said softly, laying a hand on his shoulder, - let us step, this
is a delicate matter and that does not concern you.

- Come in anytime,
but that woman can not pass.

- Why can not happen? - Courageously
asked the priest, raising his head.

- Why not come here p. ... or
thieves.

Before this barbarous insult, the lady covered her face with her hands
and groaned.

Fr Gil turned red, and taking the old by the arm, shook him violently.

- Be more polite, and since it does not respect the cassock seen, save the regard that are due to
the ladies. Before God and man this is the lawful wife of his master
you.

Let me safe passage, which you do not touch on the subject rather than hear, see and be silent.

And
giving a jolt to the old saying went:

- Come on, lady.

But Ramiro, agitated, convulsed, as if to fall prey to syncope, began
to run before them, shouting:

- Alvaro, Alvaro!

To enter the z. .. at home!

Two maids looked out the ladder and watched with amazement the scene.

The old man did not stopped in the main, proceeded to the second, giving the same cries. Fr Gil,
who Joaquin was still told it to reach the first floor:

- Stay here
for now, I will go alone.

When he reached the second, stumbled D. Alvaro to point out to your
room. His face, always pale, it was now as scared.

In four words he had learned Ramiro what was happening. In the afternoon, when first wife had been unfaithful
to home, had not done. D. Alvaro did not utter a word. Caught with a convulsive hand arm the
priest and brought him into his cabinet. Then he closed the door carefully.

- What's that woman? - Asked by futile efforts to appear calm. The voice left her weak and hoarse throat.

-
Comes to beg his forgiveness.

- You are mistaken, is for money - said smiling and forcefully.

Fr Gil remained silent for a moment and said after:

- I dare assure you nothing. It seems that you are sorry ... His accent is sincere and cried with
real pain in my presence.

A flash of anger came into the eyes of the gentleman. In that rush of emotions that are stirred in spirit,
anger managed to beat all others, and uttered in a tone dismissive:

- I am perfectly satisfied that comes only by the quarter ... but anyway I could care less about their
repentance and sincerity ... If you are repentant, that you have
a priest for absolution.

The figure for a moment that I can forgive is a new insult is an idea that a soul can only be as
miserable as theirs.

- Forgiveness never degrades.

It is the virtue that most ennobles man - said the cleric, surprised.

D. Álvaro thrust a long look angry. After disdainfully shrugged and said:

- Okay, let's stop that.

What matters is that, since it has brought, will take you immediately
this woman.

- I would beg her to, but not forgive, we allow at least
talk to you ... You may have to make some disclosures.

- I am curious.

You can keep his revelations or entrust to whom he pleases ... For
me (hear you well I'll tell you) - while she took with clenched hand
wrist - for my part, now or ever will cross the floor with her ...
You can tell them.

Fr Gil dropped his head and remained silent while the primogeniture
began pacing restlessly the room with his hands in his pockets.

From time to time he drew on his face sarcastic smile and let out through the nose a slight
huff accusing tension your spirit, reveals the tension whistle steam boiler.

- Since it can not be - said after a while the priest softly, - you
understand, D. Álvaro, that lady can not go to sleep outside the house
without giving fuel to poor languages, without renewing talks should
not be renewed.

Selfishness, if not for charity you must consent to his wife now
sleep in this house, because I do not think that suits you shock the
population.

D. Álvaro continued its hectic rides without a word, as if he had
not heard the proposition the priest.

After a while he stood in front of him and staring at him, said:

- Okay. Tell him if you like, there is no objection to sleep in this house ... but it needed little
dignity to accept - he said, lowering his voice and emphasizing the syllables .-- And if you
want money for the trip back, Osuna will provide it.

- I thank you for this courtesy, but I'm very sad - he replied smiling P. Gil .-- Any sacrifice
would erase the memory of the offense received and again welded chain
their marriage.

How would this time be a man eloquent! ...

- Eloquence, Mr. toilets, has served in this world to committing large vile; but I think it
would be any higher than you propose.

- For you are a vile what to me would be a noble and generous act,
himself an imitator of Christ.

We understand in regard to what is dignity or indignity ...

- Sorry for you, father - said the firstborn, extending his hand.

- And I for you, D. Álvaro. Good night.

Left alone he continued to walk even a few moments, then stood before the cord the bell and pulled
hard. Ramiro submitted soon.

- That woman is there ... You want me to take? - Asked the old man, without waiting for orders
of his master.

- No. Lead it to the room, turn on all lights and tell Dolores you upload.

The servant stood still, looking at him with surprise.

- And you will agree that this ...

- Silence! - Said the firstborn with energy, bringing the finger to his lips .-- s immediately
I command you.

The old man walked away grumbling. At once the maiden.

- Dolores, tell the cook to prepare dinner for the lady who is down,
and make every what you know.

Light up the room, take out the fine china, blue and fix the cabinet's decision best clothes closet
to put it in bed ... You do not miss anything. Help her to undress, anything you do to order immediately.
Are you aware?

- Yes, sir, miss you care, you will be treated as who she is.

D. Álvaro glanced sideways to her and said quickly, something shortened:

- Despáchate soon and show her the blue cabinet. If you want to sleep on the other hand, can show
also the fourth call of the bishop.

Again and again was only launched his nervous walk from one angle
to another of the camera. Despite the strength and calmness that was
shown to reject the pleas of P. Gil, his brain worked agitated, feverish.
That visit so unexpectedly removed the happy memories and unfortunate
that they had settled to the bottom of his being, and no longer bothered
him. His life double that in those three years had been moving away
from his memory like a dream the clarity of the aurora fades, suddenly
appeared before his eyes, so close that touched by hand. Not a detail
missing from the table. And before that vision was embarrassed, as
if the events had just made.

After walking a few minutes long strides,
started to pause often, paying heard noises coming from the first
floor. Guessed more than perceived preparations that slavery was running
for the sake of that vile woman who had revealed all the blackness
and all the pain of life: "Now the dining room down the lamp ... Now
take the dishes ... They must be making the bed ... Has left people,
will be looking Rufino to store something ... Look like they're blue
in the cabinet ... "

No longer walking. With his ear to the keyhole,
avidly collected all the rumors came from below. And as they arrived
too confusing, he concluded to open the door, advance cautiously to
the handrail of the stairs and listen from there, motionless, gathering
breath. He had vaguely imagined that his wife, once alone and free,
would rise to its room to talk. I would have liked to be the joy of
throwing it with some phrases disparaging you reach the bottom of
the soul. There was a moment he thought that desire was done. Heard
footsteps on the stairs, all his blood flowed to the heart quickly
to leave the rails and get back into the room. Dolores was coming
up to ask a key. When he left, returned to his espionage remained
on the stairs very long time without knowing why he did that. She
heard the confused murmur of conversation and his wife Dolores. The
girl was chattering; Joaquin also had an expansive mood: the talk
increasingly encouraged. So it figured to see some happy laughter
of his wife, that surprised him most indignant. At last he noticed
that he began to eat. Dolores was and came with the dishes. Finished
dinner. The maid stood in the dining room and continued talk. Tired
of standing, sat in one of the rungs of the ladder. In doing felt
ashamed and began to give some vague account of the emotions that
seize your mind. Waited a long time that way, feeling the confused
murmur of voices, in which nothing could distinguish, or even what
it was that of his wife and which is the maid. After observed leaving
the room. I still figured that his wife would use this occasion to
go up to visit. He stood strongly and prepared to get into his room
as soon as felt footsteps on the stairs. But he waited in vain. Mrs.
Dolores went to blue cabinet. He felt the door close behind them,
then noticed that opened again and the maid came and took the path
of his room. Undoubtedly helped to strip the lady and left her in
bed.

With his head in his hands, his elbows on his knees, stood motionless,
abstracted, only now hearing the voice of his thought and the beating
of his heart. A lively spite, which would not notice him cruelly biting
the bowels. I felt the need sighted with his wife, insults, spitting,
slapping her. Why was a moment had refused to receive it, and now
yearned to have it that way before? The thought mayorazgo it was because
their hatred and indignation had grown up. He did not know how long
it stayed in this position. The desire to be in front of his wife
increasingly burned alive in his chest, made him restless, excited,
it was becoming a fever, an intense rage that devoured. Oh, having
it in his hands, squeezing until he screams in pain, make you suffer
in the body that he had suffered in the soul! Hot iron spikes pricked
him by back, his hands trembled as if you were asked to calm down
a choke with his forward, an unbearable heat was rising from the legs
to the brain. Through this piece of rough pasture ran a huge shape of stone like the great backbone
of an enormous creature. At the end, near the woods, we could climb up on it and walk along
to the highest point; there above the circle of pointed firs we could look down over all the
island, and could see the ocean that circled this and a hundred other bits of island ground,
the mainland shore and all the far horizons. It gave a sudden sense of space, for nothing stopped
the eye or hedged one in,--that sense of liberty in space and time which great prospects always
give.

"There ain't no such view in the world, I expect," said William proudly, and I hastened to
speak my heartfelt tribute of praise; it was impossible not to feel as if an untraveled boy
had spoken, and yet one loved to have him value his native heath.

X. Where Pennyroyal Grew

WE WERE a little late to dinner, but Mrs. Blackett and Mrs. Todd were lenient, and we all took
our places after William had paused to wash his hands, like a pious Brahmin, at the well, and
put on a neat blue coat which he took from a peg behind the kitchen door. Then he resolutely
asked a blessing in words that I could not hear, and we ate the chowder and were thankful.
The kitten went round and round the table, quite erect, and, holding on by her fierce young
claws, she stopped to mew with pathos at each elbow, or darted off to the open door when a
song sparrow forgot himself and lit in the grass too near. William did not talk much, but his
sister Todd occupied the time and told all the news there was to tell of Dunnet Landing and
its coasts, while the old mother listened with delight. Her hospitality was something exquisite;
she had the gift which so many women lack, of being able to make themselves and their houses
belong entirely to a guest's pleasure,--that charming surrender for the moment of themselves
and whatever belongs to them, so that they make a part of one's own life that can never be
forgotten. Tact is after all a kind of mindreading, and my hostess held the golden gift. Sympathy
is of the mind as well as the heart, and Mrs. Blackett's world and mine were one from the moment
we met. Besides, she had that final, that highest gift of heaven, a perfect self-forgetfulness.
Sometimes, as I watched her eager, sweet old face, I wondered why she had been set to shine
on this lonely island of the northern coast. It must have been to keep the balance true, and
make up to all her scattered and depending neighbors for other things which they may have lacked.

When we had finished clearing away the old blue plates, and the kitten had taken care of her
share of the fresh haddock, just as we were putting back the kitchen chairs in their places,
Mrs. Todd said briskly that she must go up into the pasture now to gather the desired herbs.

"You can stop here an' rest, or you can accompany me," she announced. "Mother ought to have
her nap, and when we come back she an' William'll sing for you. She admires music," said Mrs.
Todd, turning to speak to her mother.

But Mrs. Blackett tried to say that she couldn't sing as she used, and perhaps William wouldn't
feel like it. She looked tired, the good old soul, or I should have liked to sit in the peaceful
little house while she slept; I had had much pleasant experience of pastures already in her
daughter's company. But it seemed best to go with Mrs. Todd, and off we went.

Mrs. Todd carried the gingham bag which she had brought from home, and a small heavy burden
in the bottom made it hang straight and slender from her hand. The way was steep, and she soon
grew breathless, so that we sat down to rest awhile on a convenient large stone among the bayberry. The
boxes were occupied by as elegant, aristocratic and exquisite kept Peñascosa within it. Just served
the soup, the anthem was heard from D. Gaspar. Began with a Notes recited kind of dreary,
long, run by a tenorete, cabinetmaker trade. He said if we do not remember wrong:

      "Peñascosa, sad yesterday
    Today fortunate,
    Shake the apathy in which he lived,
    And progress is released entusiasmaaaada
    And laaaanza progress eagerly. "

After this roll, dark as a lament, the tenor sang with all the emphasis which is likely a cabinetmaker
in such cases, the girls attacked vigorously to rejoice.

      
    
    "The courageous people
    And full of hope A gozaaaaar launches With magic burning.

"

This classic hymn, and that may well be compared, without diminishing, with the most inspired the
Salian priests, in the event that we knew one, immediately aroused guests and the public a thousand
ideas of indefinite progress and perfectibility. For a moment all those high spirits lived two
centuries later and saw through the eyes of soul an ideal Peñascosa curd factories and breweries.
Wonderful power of poetry! It applauded furiously with their hands and spoons. And although
some personage of spirit slight and effeminate said under his breath that he clapped eyes were black
and white teeth of the rocks, we are confident that most could appreciate fully pure intent
and the classical poet of Peñascosa anthem. The proof is that when he heard one of the stalls
voice: "We want the author!" in all others cried out the same, and the guests expressed the
same mouthful desire. D. Gaspar finally came on stage and advanced, bending like a bow, to the
edge of platform. After making an effort on their streets, quickly turned and went to pick up
forum the author of the music, a plump man, who presented with stiff hairs as a ghost. The audience
broke into applause warmly at them holding hands. D. Gaspar pointed to the director of the
murga as saying: "To him we owe all." Director of aiming for D. Murga Gaspar, demonstrating for mimicry:
"The victory is the Lord." Finally, unable to express a more profound admiration for plastic
that one was on the other and fit that their spirits enthusiasts, embraced in the middle of
the stage and stayed together long enough.

We do not know what mysterious influence, magic can have on a contest the act of hugging two individuals
of the same sex, but if we declare that we saw was the same surprising effect. Electrified the
audience gets up, scream, clap, get the handkerchief, gestures with violence and there are even women
who shed tears. Why? We did not ask me. We that science is still in a state to give a satisfactory
explanation to this enigma. That was a whirlwind, a delirium lasted more than ten minutes the
noise, while Euterpe and Thalia remained closely entwined. When the crowd began to lull heard
a voice say: "That kiss!" Apparently, who launched this cry was a journalist Lancia. If it
was a joke, the truth is that I had precious little grace. In mock where the ceremony that celebrated
the moral and material regeneration Peñascosa was a insolence, and as rightly said D. Juan
Casanova, "was not a good idea of ​​the culture of Lancia press. "kissed not because, although
D. Gaspar was certain tendencies to do so, their noses too close to the face of purple appeared,
but this one withdrew, giving evidence of prudence, because it spoke in terms of very serious
Peñascosa D. noses Gaspar.

Finished the anthem, started again and repeated indefinitely to desserts.

Governor again addressed the floor to the public. A few governors to oust gives municipalities, others
because they take the mattresses placed the Provincial. To him was by eloquence. D. replied Peregrin
Casanova, and was able to call him "my distinguished companion "and allude to the high duties
imposed by the government of a province," he had tried to meet once the extent of weak forces.
"He also spoke D. José Mary the apothecary, advocating the advancement of religion as "an element
of progress" (le frasecillas were certain that the time was a freethinker) and as "obstacle to
the desires bastards. "Jose spoke the tobacconist, spoke D. Remigio Flórez, the manufacturer
of canned food, spoke the editor of El Porvenir Lancia (a few days ago that he had fought a saber
D. Rosendo Belinchón, director of The Lighthouse Sarrió). And the governor spoke again. An editor
of The Young Sarrio tried to say a few words, but he was interrupted with a few murmurs from the
boxes, and sat very bland. Finally, D. Gaspar Silva walked across the stage with a paper in his hand.
"Silence! Chis, hush! ... That shut up! - Silence! Out! - Chis, hush! "In the midst of a religious
silence, the famous bard of rocks began to read an ode to dramatic voice of religion. No sacred
subjects were his specialty. He had always preferred to put the lira to the service of freedom
and democratic ideas. His best composition was a sonnet to synallagmatic bilateral pact. Understanding,
however, with profound insight, the sublime destination that heaven had designated sang, as
poets and demigods of antiquity, all that is offered his view, peace and war, democracy and
manors, religion and free thought. This ode, which began: "Oh sweet religion immaculate!" Was
spirited and was greeted with live samples approval. The banquet ended dark.

At six o'clock the sexton and some city employees began to illuminate the lanterns the Venetian
Field of fainting, so that the eight were almost all on. The evening was made very happy. In
one corner of the villagers danced to Country sound of the bagpipe
and drum, and another did the same the craft to the beat of the municipal
band.

People ran through the free space less and less relief, as the street Quadrant could not stop vomiting
blue blouses and scarves on the above Country percale. The most exquisite peñasquense society took
refuge on the porch of the church, establishing the familiar caste divisions. Organizose a
walk immediately where strangers could Lancia see at a single glance all the great and majestic in its
enclosed Peñascosa breast. There was the mass gathering of Ms Eloisa, and also another part of the
nobility The villa, with which we could not put the reader in relationship. Having enjoyed for
a long time the pleasure of seeing, as the immortals on Mount Olympus, isolated and above other
created beings, that society was breaking into the field of Fainting to watch the fireworks from
the renowned pyrotechnic Palencia. Entered without decomposition, with a disdain and severity
of respect calculated to replenish the heart of the lower castes.

Flowing down like a monkey through the beautiful dark, seeking the proximity of the obese women
and if not, the of which were in regular meat, he was our friend Osuna, administrator Montesinos
home. By the time he was not surprised won more than a slap; strange case, because in these nights
of fun used to meet half a dozen, so less. Somewhat disappointed in this aspect, not so much
as slapping what preceded them, She moved impatiently glancing butchers
around him, without finding a place enough pleasant and delightful
to set their steps.

That night they had met all the skinny of rocks. But lo, when it starts to burn the first round
of gunpowder, discerns not far from the cool Ms Theodora, the constant dream of its existence, more
radiant and lush than ever, with his white hair and pink cheeks smooth and shiny skin. Verla and
set out for it was all one. But this way in such circumstances was more difficult than anyone
can imagine. People thronged to see the fireworks and remained motionless, forming a thick wall. Our
hunchback's through with diabolical art, writhing like a lizard to pass through the narrow holes.
After a good time managed to get behind the cute buxom. He was escorted by two brothers Casanova,
who had come along together with the maid. Continued fighting over their hearts, furious effort
by the D. Peregrin, with noble and severe tranquility by D. Juan. In this contest the virtuous
and mature love girl suffered a lot, believe guilty of the best fights that erupted between two
brothers. Sought to maintain neutrality but missed seeing D. Peregrin took the brunt. Explicábale
it in the tone sufficiency that characterized him, some interesting details of the fireworks
industry and cited a number of fires he had seen during his time as clerks, truly amazing. D. Poor
Juan, who had never left the narrow space of rocks and could not cite anything, silent as ever.
But he ran buxom pulquérrima occasionally a soft look and a soft smile still, they could compensate
for his sedentary life.

When Ms Theodora turned his head to see who pressed both and found Osuna changed color. That
damned hunchback never gave her no peace. At the gathering, on the promenade, in the theater, church,
anywhere where I had occasion to approach, was known need was seen to suffer the nasty touch
their legs and sometimes their hands too. Osuna was familiar with his ground. The beautiful and
buxom pudorosa had fallen before dying of embarrassment to admit to any attacks he was receiving.
But if the confession, anyone could ascertain them, noting the state of agitation he was. On
this occasion, the hunchback walked excessively bold. Ms Theodora began show signs of anxiety
such that for any would be visible. D. Juan did not see no however.

It was a pure and magnanimous man, incapable of suspecting the big dirt can have on earth. But
D. Peregrin, a man of the world, concluded by noting some what was happening. Osuna spied the corner
of my eye, and when his spirit went into government the conviction of the violation being committed,
he began to snore and whistle for nose as a mist in danger, while throwing glances of indignation
flashing the bold hunchback. He ignored those whistles at all afraid, and did not see even fateful
expression of the eyes of former acting governor of Tarragona. What had happened? The boiler
of the tug, having no more relief than the nose, broke out with horrible noise.

- Listen, rude, dirty, cynical, earless! - Roared D. Peregrin catching by the neck the deformed
and shaking with rage .-- If you continue in this way annoying Madam, with this hand (holding
the right) give a slap on the cheek, and with the other (Holding the left) will give you another
slap in the opposite direction. Continuous act will come back to you, and with these boots fat you
see here I give you two kicks in the butt.

Physicist D. Peregrin was no purpose to instill panic in the heart of enemies. However, severe and
administrative continent as few and the voice stream great that nature endow him pretty well made
up for the deficiency of other organs. In addition, Osuna was to be weaker and more wretched
than he.

For this and the uproar that ensued then, instead of coping, slipped into the crowd and disappeared
in a time. Ms Theodora, to be the subject of public curiosity, she fainted. D. Juan and the
Maiden sustained it. D. Peregrin kept shouting at his enemy away. The crowd laughed, cried, stirred
noisily. At last all was peace, and returned to his buxom prudish home where we will spread
a flood of tears.

Obdulia, busy all day by a sharp pain and a rabid desire to redress injustice had been committed
to his beloved spiritual director, did not leave home or bed. Was really sick. Had a fever, the
fever that occurs in the temperament like hers a single thought to be exacerbated by degrees.
At night he got up and dressed hastily. Her large blue circles are now marked in a way shocking.
A Wrinkle deep, unshakable resolution sign, he furrowed his brow. She called the maid and said he
wanted to go out and see the fireworks. All it did to dissuade her, by representing the serious
damage that could cause the cold and damp night, it was useless. He took the blanket, threw it
over the head with convulsive hand, forced to be domestic hers and
took to the streets.

The Field of boiling and people fainting. It took a lot further work to be placed in the middle.
Obdulia wanted at all costs approach the house the pastor, where he was staying prelate. He had
seen it shining glasses and hide immediately in one window. Below, on the very doorstep of
the rectory, a large group giraldilla girls danced, singing as loud improvised couplets of circumstances
at the time. Them alluded to the new church, compliments to the Bishop, the Governor, Peñascosa
the founding fathers, without missing either, of course, the usual little stitch to Sarria.

The
imagination of Osuna's daughter worked tirelessly to increase the fever that consumed her. But over
a thousand thoughts and ghosts circling it, sticking out an idea fixed, stubborn, who unwittingly
drove his way with his elbows through the crowd, followed by the maid, who did not understand
the desire of his lady. When they were coming to the rectory, she stopped a few minutes. Observed
from the corner of the eye to her maid, and when he saw more absorbed in the contemplation of
the fires that were burning, maneuvered skillfully and moved away from her hiding among the
people. Once alone, he stopped again. After conducting countless looks of anxiety and fear of
the priest's house after met more than twenty times and to repent so many, finally slipped like a
shadow behind the girls dancing and having a circle of spectators around, and entered the
door of the house. Inside it had a few servants who talked looking
from there they could.

Was wide open, and Obdulia, without saying word was introduced by her and climbed a few stairs. But
stopping suddenly and remaining an indecisive moment, turned to lower them and went to the group
home.

- Is the secretary of the bishop's up? - Asked to nearest.

- D. Cayetano? ... Yes, ma'am, is up - said one of the most distant.

- Could you speak a word with him?

- Why not? ... I will tell ... Go up with me.

Rose both in the dirty step D. Miguel, as neither by the arrival of the prelate had cleared.

- Have the kindness to wait a moment.

Appeared shortly after the secretary, a middle-aged cleric, ugly,
ungainly, but look smart and outspoken.

He looked with great curiosity and asked, trying to appear friendly:

-
You ask me, ma'am?

- Yes, sir.

- You tell me ...

- I talk to the
bishop.

The secretary looked at her more curiously still, and after a moment's
hesitation, appearing on her face a hint of a smile, replied:

- You
understand that the time is appropriate ... Your Excellency is going
to retire soon to rest ...

- It is urgent and very important I have
to tell ...-- said abruptly.

Again looked at the priest with penetrating eyes, noticing her agitation.

-
Well ... What I can do is tell your gift to His Grace ... Do not answer
that you receive it at this time ... Can you pass this room and wait
a moment.

No take to bring the answer.

He opened the door of the boudoir of receipt, he brought a lamp and
left her alone.

At that moment She felt that leaving all his strength.

The heart started pounding him chest. The room was moving slowly as the chamber of a vessel. Was
forced to be held with both hands on the back of a chair for not
coming to the floor.

Secretary appeared within minutes, without crossing the door frame, said with affected solemnity

-
Your Excellency will arrive at this time.

Obdulia closed her eyes and gripped more tightly to the chair. When he opened them before him
him the towering figure of the prelate.

The room was half-lit because of the screen that covered the lamp. Contours of that figure faded
into the shadows. But diamonds sparkled pectoral and glass lenses also shone the faint rays of
light on them fell. Advanced a few steps down the hall. Obdulia dropped to his knees.

- Is it for a matter of conscience, my daughter - the prelate asked
him sweetly, giving at the same time to kiss his ring.

- Yes, sir
- the young voice replied with emotion altered .-- It is for a matter
of conscience of His Excellency.

- About my conscience? - Said the
bishop, rising slowly and dropping on it a look of surprise and curiosity.

-
The pure consciousness, His Excellency knows better than me, is subject
to error.

When believe we are doing good do evil.

The Soul of Your Grace is noble and holy, according to all who know her. For something God has
chosen to shepherd his flock.

But the eyes of His Excellency does not reach all parts as those of God. His arm is extended in
vain to bless. The blessing does not reach everyone. Among the pastors that His Excellency is positioned
to help the need to keep faithful and love the flock, there are also with the light and love
fixed upon themselves ...

- Get you, my dear ... What do you mean by this?

- What I tell you,
sir - Osuna's daughter uttered boldly, suddenly sobering under the
impulse of exaltation - is that we had in this town a zealous coadjutor,
model self-denial, humility, duty, who had made immense sacrifices
to force inspire devotion and piety to the many who never had felt
that without any violence had arranged the parish and returned to
God what belonged to him ... Well, I known ... we learned with pain
all the faithful, instead of letting him in the position that performed
in the interim, Your Excellency has given it to someone else ...

The
bishop gazed in silence for a space.

 I soon grew more or less acquainted with the
histories of all their fortunes and misfortunes, and subjects of an intimate nature were no
more withheld from my ears than if I had been a shell on the mantelpiece. Mrs. Fosdick was
not without a touch of dignity and elegance; she was fashionable in her dress, but it was a
curiously well-preserved provincial fashion of some years back. In a wider sphere one might
have called her a woman of the world, with her unexpected bits of modern knowledge, but Mrs.
Todd's wisdom was an intimation of truth itself. She might belong to any age, like an idyl
of Theocritus; but while she always understood Mrs. Fosdick, that entertaining pilgrim could
not always understand Mrs. Todd.

That very first evening my friends plunged into a borderless sea of reminiscences and personal
news. Mrs. Fosdick had been staying with a family who owned the farm where she was born, and
she had visited every sunny knoll and shady field corner; but when she said that it might be
for the last time, I detected in her tone something expectant of the contradiction which Mrs.
Todd promptly offered.

"Almiry," said Mrs. Fosdick, with sadness, "you may say what you like, but I am one of nine
brothers and sisters brought up on the old place, and we're all dead but me."

"Your sister Dailey ain't gone, is she? Why, no, Louisa ain't gone!" exclaimed Mrs. Todd, with
surprise. "Why, I never heard of that occurrence!"

"Yes'm; she passed away last October, in Lynn. Had
heard Ms Josefa all. Al loves it seemed as bad as the toilet that plan, and inside it called
"tangled and messy" to the pious, but it was felt that both taste to be relieved of it, he said
nothing and went through everything. It was always between those two rivalry easy to explain.
Obdulia occasion or not, visiting his confessor, watching domestic welfare, sometimes fixed the
clothes, others by sending a dish of rated. This angered an unspeakable way Ms Josefa. The
pair hated death. Said misdoing it everywhere, and harm, was about to commit several Sometimes
his master. No wonder, then, knowing all the ridiculous and dangerous to the loophole, the favored
encouraging P. Gil, allaying their scruples. He saw in it more than half forever be rid of that insufferable
wart had gone.

The first thing he did was ask the girl loves a bag to put her clothes on her confessor had the
need on the trip. Doña Josefa loft brought a bag at night.

- This is a very small lady. Here there is no room.

- How small ?...-- asked the mistress, amazed .-- Here it is clothing for a portion of days.
How long must be over there Mr. toilet?

- A little, little - he hastened to say with obvious embarrassment, blushing .-- But you see you,
on trips you never know what can happen ... Maybe lack of diligence
or the horses ... A disease ... Who knows ...

- Válgala God, lady,
do not stand to think about these things!

... I'll get another. For lack of case do not stay.

Between the two settled into her a few changes of underwear, slippers, combs, the breviary,
etc., etc. Since they had finished the task, not long or difficult course, sat Obdulia in the
chair of the clergy, declaring that he was really tired, that night
had barely slept with the anxiety that occurs whenever a decision
so crucial, and that would be good take a nap.

Ms Josefa allowed to stand quietly and went about their business.

When the bustle felt down there, through the kitchen, got up and began to examine with pleasant look
how many objects were in the room. All played with your hands. Particularly those of more immediate
use for their personal and confessor, as combs, pens to write, The lighters, etc.., were the
subject of attention for her vivid, anxious: they swam between your fingers with emotion, while
a tender smile and his lips roamed submissive. A Used collar lay upon a chair. He stopped in
front of him, lifted him up and looked around forward now and then, glancing timidly at the
door, his lips two or three times and left him where he was. He remained motionless a few minutes,
standing in the middle of the room, eyes on the empty, alienated by intense meditation. His eyes
became After a shining smile, and a wave of crimson light spread over her cheeks. Gave some foot
steps hesitantly and stood at last at the bedroom door. With an intense look embraced inasmuch
as it was. The priest's bed was small, white wood, white also the blanket that covered him, pillows
and fine linens, but no lace. It looked like the bed a schoolgirl. Obdulia gazed a long while,
as if he had ever seen anything more surprising. His face could see the signs of an emotion-friendly,
which he feels on entering the chapel where the relics are kept in
cathedrals.

It remained without daring to move a foot, the white face, eyes brimming with ecstatic joy as
if it were a warm bath scented. Suddenly he stepped back, ran to the door cabinet, opened
it a little and put his head and listened. Ms. Joseph was in the kitchen. The closed again and
again on tiptoe to the bedroom. He paused a moment and then advanced to playing on the bed.
She put on her hands. Her heart pounded in his chest tightly. Sank
down on his face, and very gently so as not to undo her clothes and
went extended, resting her head on the pillow. Then I go out to you for a trifle. Can you tell who is the lord so generous ...

- No sir, it is lady.

Another peek.

- Ah, rogue!

I knew you enjoyed great favor with the ladies.

On the face of Ms Serafina alegrísima ran a dark cloud that momentarily.

- It is gift of Ms Serafina, due to be my birthday today - was quick
to say the priest.

- It seemed to me that you came too happy today!

... To celebrate this there partying, right?

- How to spree? - Asked D. Joaquín with some trepidation, fearing
military openness his friend.

- Yes, an intimate comidita special
dishes and a couple of bottles of claret.

- It was burgundy - said
D. Joaquin laughing - was burgundy.

- Better and better.

- Yes!
- Ms Serafina said, ogling his chaplain.

He returned to start including the shooting glances and winks, lavishing attention thousand tender
denoting a state of perfect bliss.

The arrival of Ms Rita did not disturb her ecstasy, less or more delicious. This lady, small
and plump, with big black eyes and big teeth expressionless also healthy and yellow always
entered with a basket where he kept the job. Sacábala slowly, working half hours quietly listening
carefully to everything that was said, and picked up again after the belongings and went to
do the same elsewhere. This ran in the night three or four houses. It was his habit of knowing,
knowing everything, even the most trivial and insignificant. It well tolerated everywhere, because
despite his boundless curiosity never had febrile for any disappointment caused. Know as only
he enjoyed: he was a disinterested pleasure, intense as that of the scientists who do not look at
the result that their knowledge can give them. As the miser piled up in the box without thinking
of gold coins in use ever Ms Rita and treasured in his mind many private reports could pick
up on his travels through the town, without disturbing anyone with them. A few were kept, then,
to talk secrets in his presence, but if someone did it and came to notice him rushing these desires
and anxieties to know what he hid, he had not slept or rested for
a moment, walked pale, haggard, be made rude and intractable.

Once discovered the coveted secret, even if the thing flimsiest grew calm and serenity, returned
to its sweet, peaceful, harmless. Some subject thugs, as Don Martin, P. Narciso, D. Joachim
and others used to tease pretending a mystery among them, tormented, made him lose his mind
on a whim.

But when he entered the P. Narciso, D. Joaquin became more serious,
that fellow hiding ineffable joy, he frolicked in his soul, his eyes
avoiding find cheerful sparkling with his former mistress.

He felt at once in the nose a whiff aromatic cigar, looked searchingly at his colleague, Ms
Serafina other and began to date.

- There Gaudeamus, right? - Asked softly.

D. Joaquin blatantly refused.

One after another were coming director, Candida, Mrs. Filomena, P. Melchor, Marcelina and, in
short, almost all regular commentators. Soon Formáronse groups always disintegrated the elements
of that society, operating in it the chemical phenomenon elective affinities. But this operation
was done without the violent upheaval and shocks that are observed in the bosom of nature, without
the actions and reactions to gives rise by fermentation. That night, Candida, the bony Miss you
already know, in Instead of going to kiss the hand of the Father Melchor and sit beside him and
whispering all evening, was to do the same with Fr Norberto. Why this drop? In the gathering nobody
knew more than interested and Ms Rita. Fr Melchor had the foresight to say in a rochets house that
made him the youngest cited were limited in breadth, and it cost him work with them to bend the
arm. Instead, he warmly praised a collar that had given Ms Marciala. The case was serious, as
anyone will understand, and should produce this sad result. Ms Marciala, Father Narciso seeing
more and more inclined to admit and thank the fervent admiration of Ms Filomena, showed his emotion
and indignation, approaching D. Melchor and speaking with an affected baby. Ms Filomena, after
several years of worship resigned, quiet, had arrived, when they did not expect the goal of
their aspirations. Much attention, so much love had finally managed to captivate the spirit
of telling chaplain Sarrió, who gave clear evidence to the widow of his affection. After having
tried in vain many times, it had sought from him that was tutor to
his son, and to take office with fans.

His fiery temperament is dominant and then said. Poor child had to experience not only too
much work, beyond his years, but a series of cruel, malicious, refined. And Ms Filomena, who was the
sweetest, I had never raised his hand on his son, impassive man consented to whip mercilessly.
Quieted his conscience by saying that it was for good.

Marcelina, who had dreamed to replace Ms Serafina in the heart of D. Joaquín (and actually had
some basis for this dream, as the young priest did not stop to distinguish among all), he was
already quite disappointed. Became convinced that it took her as a tool for getting a little to your
love and have it more attentive and submissive. This conviction pushed back to D. Narciso,
who had long been abandoned, but this, that he had never professed
great fondness, as Obdulia, unceremoniously rejected.

If, however, ex-girl still struggling bravely with Ms Filomena. A few days earlier had given
the Chaplain crochet a bedspread that was a marvel of pacienzudo and skilled labor. Certainly
the widow, seeing her on the bed of the clergy, underwent a lively displeasure and cried many tears
in secret.

These spiritual turmoil, the struggles of sensitivity and pious devotion among ladies who attended
there were precisely those that gave a dramatic interest in that world serene, innocent. Skills
were certainly not rude down in societies profane, where a violent intrigues affect where the relations
of man and the female are based always on the explosion of the senses,
bear the stamp abominable animality.

Everything was done in a soft, innocent, spiritual small shocks that we have mentioned were
like the soft ripple of a lake and transparent beautiful. It was that gathering as a prelude
to heaven where the angels relations, of holy men and women reach the highest degree of purity
immortal.

What was happening for the soul of Osuna's daughter confirms that idea just made. After that
experience gastric upset, son of the excitement that was, fell into a deep physical and moral
weakness. I felt if they had the impression she committed a great treachery, and though his mind
told him vaguely absurd in a sense, could not lessens its intensity, or less discarded. P. hated
Gil, you hated with all his soul. I'd give anything for revenge. What? Not tell her, but beyond
the depths of the soul was convinced he was right to do so. He was unshakable resolution not to confess
to him anymore. With him! A priest comes by night in doorways whispering with beautiful women
and elegant! Ugh! Would be ashamed to do so. Obdulia was quite sure a woman talking to her confessor
was cute. This assurance was torturing. Of course that if he had the audacity to come to talk,
give him a cold shoulder from the fat, I would back. And confess again with D. Narciso. And
tell his friends in what situation you had seen a lady unknown and elegant. Because there was
no doubt who was dressed elegantly While he had repaired. Long coat that was not done in Peñascosa.
Who would? Some Lancia, sure, that would pay him a visit. And why do you come from afar to visit
a priest, not his mother or his sister or his debt? Do not you know that lady that fame Priests
are very delicate and anything bankruptcy? The brain of the young did not stop spinning and
turning these ideas and the like, while his body remained motionless,
dejected, staring stubbornly at the hands of Ms Marciala, leaving
no a time when his sock.

He felt ill, wanted to leave but a vague hope that he could not define the retained despite
himself.

Meanwhile Fr Norberto was surprised and confused by the unusual attention of it was subjected by
Candida. The poor man was not accustomed to being the lavish. The fair sex of her professed disdain
Peñascosa compassionate. Teníasele by a priest virtuous, but very short-sighted. His own companions,
when they talked about it, they did while the protective lips half smiling, half-mocking. For
the ladies, virtue Fr Norberto was not poetry, it lacked the charm that other priests becomes
contagious, was a pedestrian under that did not translate into delicate and sublime concepts as in
P. Narciso, P. Gil et al. So rare was the girl who confessed to him not least that felt like it
had the taste in conversation or envelop in clouds of incense, Candida as he did at that time. His own
inclination to rescue the lost sluts, much they respected, was not sympathetic to the ladies. Truth
that he spent admirably Without this sympathy and did not detract from fat each day and spend my life
laughing. Flattery he was pouring his ear with his new daughter insinuating voice of confession,
instead of pleasing, troubled him, annoyed him visibly. It was one of the few times he could
seriously seen lounging. It was grinding the seat, changing position every minute, and Knuckles
crackled hands in a formidable, coughed, blushed, and occasionally let out of the throat with
a slight snort alarmed protested his modesty. Finally, as requested strongly by the sweet prospect
of sitting, took a break from the maiden to rise and say a little
twisting hips by way of greeting:

- With your permission, Miss.

As
distressing situation that left his face and dilated blood reappeared
in it the universal benevolent smile which was his principal ornament.

Arrival the group where they were Counsellor, D. Martin, Osuna and
another military gentleman was greeted Lancia with joy.

- I present
- said D. Stranger to his friend Martin, lowering his voice and glancing
suspiciously around to make sure his wife could not hear him - the
father Norbert, a priest who will be able report all the huts of the
people, if you want to know any.

- Oh, oh! D. Martin, by God!

-
Dare you to say they do not know!

- Well, yes ... some know ... Unfortunately,
I need to enter them once ...

- This man is dedicated to the lost
youth - continued D. Martin, addressing his companion, smiling in
amazement.

- Jesus!

Consider, D. Martin, who this gentleman does not know me ...

- But that knows you talk.

Ms Eloisa, by far, cast glances of terror to her husband, noting the confusion of D. Norberto and
the laughter of others.

- Well - continued Mr. de las Casas, becoming cautious and conciliatory,
- I will not tell, D. Norbert, you go with bad idea to these houses
of iniquity, but what always argue is that it is you provide a great
service: you're making a killing.

- How, how? - Scared the cleric
asked.

- Very simple, helping to raise the price of the commodity.

Recall the example Carmen the zapatillera ...

This was a girl whom
Fr Norberto had managed to get a house of prostitution and lead to
a convent.

After some time he went out and returned to the bad life.

D. became Norberto to persuade her to repent, and again she came and gave asylum to vice.

- And what does that matter? ...

- I'll explain, Father, I will explain ... Meet you ... When you catechized Carmen, I do not deny that
the merchandise was quite undervalued and ...

- I do not know!

What things have you, D. Martin! - Said the cleric embarrassed.

- I know, father, I know.

Well, after he spent a year there and a bit fatter in the convent
and became surrounded by an aura of honesty, the price rose significantly.

You take it back when I was a bit estropeadilla and demand had diminished to a point raised
fears for the bucolic, and now it comes again chubby and sanctified
is quoted again as in their heyday.

- Jesus!

Jesus! Go all for God - said the priest covered their ears, but not angry .-- you will be very
bad, D. Martin.

Ms Eloisa, it warned that what was happening, finally rose from his
chair and came toward them, asking in a bad mood:

- Do not play today
ombre?

- Here we go, here we go - her husband said, stifling laughter
that flowed from the body, such as others.

They sat Adviser, D. Norbert and he was at table, and soon block out
all worldly sounds fascinating under the influence of the sword, the
bad and the rough.

Shortly after Councillor gnashed his teeth and mustache pulled cruelly, being twice followed with
three clubs, his personal enemy. Many years ago that had declared a war to death. Every time I
came to the hands, twitched Chief, swore silently like a trooper. The three of clubs, malicious
and cunning as any other card, enjoyed apparently irritated him, and whenever he could sneak nicely
in the pile he distributed.

Not only in the party, but in the whole village was known this antipathy. Some, with certain precautions,
of course, because D. Romualdo easy shooting I teased her.

On one occasion, angling behind the church, pulled in hook a card that turned out to be the three
of clubs.

He had no doubt that he had thrown there on purpose, but said nothing
so as not to laugh.

Osuna meantime had gone to rub a little against Ms Eloisa. Among all the ladies attending that
gathering there were only two fat, Ms Teodora and Ms Eloisa. Was also good meat Ms Rita, but it
was soft, yellow. Other "pure Scotland," as he called the skinny, referring to cod. So there
was no end to our contempt Hunchback professed that degenerate society and exhausted from adipose
tissue. Just going by there to find his daughter, or materially did not know where to shelter. Ms
Eloisa looked sympathetic (as I watched all the good lady) the passion that the monster seemed
feel to it. When you are too close, gently parted without extinction so his kindly smile.
Ms Teodora Instead you had a great fear, real fear. The same approach was Osuna, who was already
suffocating caste buxom, restless, color it was and another was coming. But such was the shame
he felt, had not declared to his own father's dirty insinuations misshapen. What is the difference
between this indecent and serene, majestic and romantic D. Juan Casanova! D. Ni Peregrin could
compare with, to be the latter, by way of the mature girl, a subject
much more voluptuous and land.

D. Pilgrims had arrived, as usual, in the past. And if the gathering is not warned most strident
of nasal snorts, as infinitely more solemn blink and the serious way to put a leg over the other
and lean back to something important, important, had to communicate was that he did not want
to notice. He waited patiently, like all men sure of success, to have a break, and when he arrived,
he uttered with his shrill voice, piercing, turning to the lady of the house:

- Do not you know whom I have just seen entering the house of his brother, accompanied by excused?

A
Obdulia he jumped so hard the heart that thought hit the ground. Other, including Ms Eloisa,
looked up curiously.

- Who was that?

- Your sister Joaquina - cried more that said former acting governor of Tarragona, as announced
Judgement Day.

Deep stupor throughout the party.

- My sister! - Exclaimed.

- His own sister - confirmed D. Peregrin with trumpeting horrid.

- There can be - said Ms Eloisa.

- There can be - said her husband,
suspending the game.

- There can be - repeated Ms Serafina Barrado.

The ex-governor of Tarragona let out through the nose some deafening
snorts as an engine that displaces the excess steam, and said:

-
Do you think, gentlemen, I have no eyes in his head?

This momentous question, accompanied by the appropriate frown, produced
enough impression among the switches.

- Well you could have been
mistaken - said the invalid.

- It's so easy! - Said Ms Eloisa.

-
I've seen as you see them now, three steps away.

I came to talk to the clerk to the issue of the anniversary of my
father, when the hole street Quadrant I to P. Gil with a lady who
seemed a stranger.

I wanted to know who he was, and I paused a little near the lantern,
hiding behind a doorway.

It was Joaquin, no doubt. I waited a bit and followed with his eyes until he entered the house
of Montesinos.

- But you know well? - Asked P. Narciso.

- The same as you.

- Peregrin, please note that you have not done more than a visit to Madrid, and the night, as
I've said - she said timidly D. Juan.

The ex-governor threw his brother a look of unutterable contempt.

- John, do not put the leg.

- Peregrin I do not know why ...

- John! ...

- Peregrin! ...

- Do not the goal!

Not the goals! A lady that I saw after visiting another portion times in the street, and I welcomed.
Therefore, I feel the sad need to show yourself what you just said is an impertinence. When assured
that I knew this lady, is because the know. I never talk to smoke with straw. If I were a man
light and baseless could not occupy the positions I have occupied. Sírvate of government.

- Now I remember - Candida said, - today I have seen alighting from the coach to a blond lady with
a very elegant dress.

D. Peregrin shrugged with a gesture of disdain, as if to say: 'What
you come in my support to counter the absurdities of this fool?

"

That data and concluded that gesture to annihilate D. John, whose face expressed dejection. But
Ms Theodora, with her large calm eyes, he plunged a look so warm that the factions knight, contracted
with grief, went gradually dilating, and a placid concluded by a melancholy smile on his lips
disappear. The head of D. Peregrin, however, was instantly crossed
by a portion of wrinkles. The undeniable superiority was about his
brother, what he used? "Yes, she was just
the same, and looked very nice, Joanna did. I had been married since she left home, an' she
treated me like her own folks. I expected she'd look strange, with her hair turned gray in
a night or somethin', but she wore a pretty gingham dress I'd often seen her wear before she
went away; she must have kept it nice for best in the afternoons. She always had beautiful,
quiet manners. I remember she waited till we were close to her, and then kissed me real affectionate,
and inquired for Nathan before she shook hands with the minister, and then she invited us both
in. 'Twas the same little house her father had built him when he was a bachelor, with one livin'-room,
and a little mite of a bedroom out of it where she slept, but 'twas neat as a ship's cabin.
There was some old chairs, an' a seat made of a long box that might have held boat tackle an'
things to lock up in his fishin' days, and a good enough stove so anybody could cook and keep
warm in cold weather. I went over once from home and stayed 'most a week with Joanna when we
was girls, and those young happy days rose up before me. Her father was busy all day fishin'
or clammin'; he was one o' the pleasantest men in the world, but Joanna's mother had the grim
streak, and never knew what 'twas to be happy. The first minute my eyes fell upon Joanna's
face that day I saw how she had grown to look like Mis' Todd. 'Twas the mother right over again."

"Oh dear me!" said Mrs. Fosdick.

"Joanna had done one thing very pretty. There was a little piece o' swamp on the island where
good rushes grew plenty, and she'd gathered 'em, and braided some beautiful mats for the floor
and a thick cushion for the long bunk. She'd showed a good deal of invention; you see there
was a nice chance to pick up pieces o' wood and boards that drove ashore, and she'd made good
use o' what she found. There wasn't no clock, but she had a few dishes on a shelf, and flowers
set about in shells fixed to the walls, so it did look sort of homelike, though so lonely and
poor. I couldn't keep the tears out o' my eyes, I felt so sad. I said to myself, I must get
mother to come over an' see Joanna; the love in mother's heart would warm her, an' she might
be able to advise."

"Oh no, Joanna was dreadful stern," said Mrs. Fosdick.

"We were all settin' down very proper, but Joanna would keep stealin' glances at me as if she
was glad I come. She had but little to say; she was real polite an' gentle, and yet forbiddin'.
The minister found it hard," confessed Mrs. Todd; "he got embarrassed, an' when he put on his
authority and asked her if she felt to enjoy religion in her present situation, an' she replied
that she must be excused from answerin', I thought I should fly. Not mean that it ceases to consider and should
serve as Ms Marciala, but he was seen in some time to that part more inclined to Ms Filomena,
though never so designated course as he had felt by Obdulia.

In the gathering of Ms Eloisa stirred thousand sweet sentiments, which, like the shadow the light,
always accompany other bitter. Several young single women, to whom time and disenchantment had
become more reflective, some married women where their husbands were able to extinguish the
thirst for the infinite, and such that another widow in need of comfort, gathered every night
at around half a dozen priests, forming an interesting group and moving. This little world, oblivious
to the struggles of all politics, science and material interests, was a delightful oasis in the
midst of general corruption customs. The perfect female submission of those souls to its directors,
benevolence and the tenderness with which they strove to lead them down the path of virtue, lent to socialize
a mild, innocent and pious that not only find security in Secular. There was a joyful interpenetration
of the spiritual in the temporal, it was an image about what must be the reign of God on earth.

The mystical herd was divided, as was natural.

Each priest had his daughters confession who obeyed him and admired him. And they, building,
business experts and pastors, character and condition of each sheep, often stimulated by the
successful handling, now their self-flattering, sometimes with jealousy sometimes mortifying,
others with healthy coldness others in a proper compliment. Missing or not in that society, some
exquisite honest recreations. It was not all knitting and crochet bedspreads, also worshiped
to music. Fr Norberto was the organist of the church, and although he knew little secular
music, Some night I played, and when not accompanied Fr Narciso, who among his many skills had
to play the flute in two or three pavanas and the symphony of Joan of Arc. Also Marcelina could sing
La Stella confidant and prayer to the Virgin. D. Melchor could do some sleight of hand; D. Peregrin
Casanova's seasoned with salt gathering stories, recited Candida piano admirably various moral
fables, and finally, P. Joaquin was playing, scratching teeth with your fingernails, any piece of
music, and imitated the cry of the cock so perfectly anyone confused him with the biped.

That night there was music. The mood was a bit oblivious.

There was some concern in the party, motivated by the presence of P. Gil, whom none of his colleagues,
if except P. Norberto, showed sympathy. The conversation was rolling from one to another subject,
all unimportant. In a moment of silence, D. Juan Casanova, who had his head tilted to one side,
no doubt by the excessive weight of the brain, somewhat discharged, saying with his usual solemnity

-
Eloise, today I found his brother Alvaro in the Paseo de la Atalaya. He wore trousers frame.

Ms
Eloisa sighed, as long as he played the point of his brother.

-
These days have been a little sick.

I was told the servant - said sending a shy glance at the table where he played her husband.

D.
Martin and his brother for some time that were not related.

For the trivial reason of furniture of the house that was meant to
bring to his own, without right, broke in a violent way.

D. Martin (what else?) Put his hand on his brother's face and challenged him over this. From
then, total separation between them.

D. Álvaro living in his huge house, all alone, and D. Martin in his with his wife. This, from
time to time, hidden from Mr. Martin, was to visit his brother.

- There seems to good health - said Fr Gil, who did not know why he was interested man.

- Oh! Very sickly and delicate.

Just taking care a lot can go on living.

Clerics, as always when Montesinos was in the presence of his sister,
kept gloomy silence, with a long face and plastered.

If it were not, would insurance released a statement of outrage and sarcasm against that wicked
one, who was shocked the villa with his views and his conduct. With great difficulty adhering
to the narrow loop family.

There was a gloomy silence, for the ladies, realizing what was happening
in the interior of spiritual directors dared not speak.

Ms Eloisa turned to breathe another sigh and said painful accent, as if to end in a monologue
aloud:

- Too bad you have been perverted in Madrid! Alvaro has a good heart ... and they all say he
is a man of talent.

Clerics felt annoyed by those accolades.

One of them, Father Melchior, is dare say smirk:

- Madam, permit me not to recognize talent who does not admit the truth of our holy religion.

- At least it was the first in his chair and went among their teachers for a guy clear.

- And it will, madam, - said Fr Gil, whom the aggressive twang of his partner was upset .--
It can have talent and be blinded in any case.

His brother, unfortunately, what is in regard to the most interesting to man. But there is no reason
to deny talent. The heretics have been great, if not so, would certainly not have could give
the appearance of truth to error and deceive many people.

Although it felt wounded to the quick by the indirect reply, Fr Melchor
did not dare answer, and preferred to be distracted eating the anger.

For most who do not confess all Peñascosa clergy felt the superiority of P. Gil, who blamed,
of course, to was the only one among them who had followed the race can of theology. No other
attempt not contradict him for fear of making a bad paper.

The conversation was directed by the other side. Charlose lively construction project of a new
church near the plaza, flown by several neighbors and which opposed with all their might the
priest, fearing to divide the parish. The players were alternatives in their silence and noisy altercation.
Fr Gil remained silent and pensive, impressed with what he had to hear and say. Figure of Montesinos,
who had not seen more than three or four times in his life, and that from a distance, floating
in his mind waking up at Viva curiosity. The claim that Mrs. Eloisa had always been the first among
his classmates, helped to make it bigger, if not more interesting
to your eyes, man.

A desire vague, indefinite and conquer approach was born in his mind. When the arrival of
D. José Maria Osuna, the apothecary and gave the signal for the dissolution of the gathering,
even the thought rolled for his brain for shape.

The night was overcast and gloomy. The sky would drop with obstinacy a fine rain and cold. At
the door of the house the circles were divided: most stayed for the near the square, others went
down the street of the Quadrant.

And on it went separating all until they were alone Fr Gil, Osuna and his daughter, the only
living Field of fainting. Obdulia arranged that the P. Gil's tapase with his umbrella. The hunchback
moved back, glad not to go through the humiliation of having her daughter tapase, for because
of the large difference in height so it was good.

They walked a few moments in silence, listening to the distant roar
of the sea beating against the rocks and the faint sound of rain on
the umbrella.

The girl expected to P. Take out Gil the conversation of his altercation
with Fr Narciso, and indefinitely prolonged attempt silence.

Seeing taciturn and withdrawn, he ventured to say in a trembling voice:

- Are you angry with me, father?

- Why? - Asked the clerk in surprise, suddenly out of his meditation.

-
The dispute I had with D. Narciso.

- Ah!

Yes ..

In fact, I did not like the rebellious attitude that you have placed
in front him.

It is unworthy of a humble and virtuous young as you ...

Obdulia was silent, feeling in the heart of the censorship of his director. Finally he said,
putting red, which no one could see:

- You're right, I have committed a sin and repent ...

After a long pause, he added humbly:

- You can not imagine how much I dislike the look of envy D. Narciso.

-
Envy? - Asked the priest with surprise .-- Who is jealous?

- You,
Father, to you - the young woman said firmly.

- No, my dear, no -
said Fr Gil all bewildered .-- I can not be envied by anyone ... I
a poor clergyman ... a miserable sinner ...

- Well, even so ... I
understand ...

Replace your embarrassment, the priest then said sharply:

-
I beg you not to say those things again, or that thinks ... Forbid
it ... Note you are two priests - added after a pause, his voice softening.

Obdulia

no reply. Muda and heart squeezed by a strange sentence, continued
marching next to the cleric.

He spoke to Osuna without turning

- At the Country are going to feel the air, Mr. Osuna.

- When does not blow in that damn field? - Said the hunchback with bad humor.

And indeed, to engage with it, a violent gust struck them face and
was about to return umbrellas.

The cleric's robe, the petticoat of the girl waving: they had trouble
forward.

Finally reached the great portal of Montesinos.

They wiped his face with his handkerchief and restored the disorder of his clothes. Fr Gil
returned to lead a curious look, searching for the dark door on top
of which always burning oil lamp.

- Goodbye, Mr. Osuna, you rest
- said extending his hand to the hunchback.

Then he had a moment of indecision going to lie to Obdulia, but troubled by the look intense
and ecstatic that she nailed him, took his hat and bowed gravely, saying:

- Good evening, miss.

Again raised the umbrella and quickly saved the distance that separated him from the rectory.
The Obdulia eyes, motionless at the door while his father called, and followed him for some time.

Before
entering the rectory, Father Gil turned and also stood a few moments. But his eyes sought the
door where it had disappeared. Were above once embraced the vast and sombre facade of the
great manor house, seasoned with Hurricane shocks, serious and disdainful slept under the weather.
Contemplola long, carefully. His eyes shone with a mystical fire of joy. It was the look of
the apostle, greedy, tender, lenient. Perhaps the expression should be reflected in the eyes of
San Pedro in view of Rome.

IV

Since that night, Fr Gil did not dream of anything else.

Apostolate fever reddened with so that did not leave empty corner in your brain to another thought.
Within it entablose a silent struggle between the living and burning desire to enrich your life
with the conquest of a bitter enemy of the Church, and fear repossession, crazy, not knowing why
he inspired. In his ongoing walk around the room it occupied in the rectory, while with breviary
in his hand saying the obligatory prayers, often stopped at the window the tip of the curtain
rose, and looked timid and anxious at the palace of Montesinos. There was, stern, impenetrable,
hostile as a stronghold built by the impious. Balconies closed forever. The mystery man who
had lived to hate both the light sun as that of faith. Fr Gil then directed at the sky and
gave thanks to God from the bottom of my heart for having always had his hand, having been born
and live region in light of the holy Christian beliefs.

He tried in vain to inquire into details of the life and character of those lost sheep who longed
to bring into the fold. Who provided data were contradictory. While her sister and some others
had it as a perfect gentleman, a man of substance, astray by bad company and wicked reading books,
others also claimed known each other since childhood, painted as being perverse, mean-spirited,
always smiling the misfortunes and frailties of others, insolent, aggressive speech, since
labor could not be natural for his weak and sickly. In this regard recounted anecdotes of his childhood
and adolescence evidencing this view. Still others, he had a unfortunate for a man whom his literary
career disappointments and deep sorrow household had filled the heart of gall. Assumed that Montesinos,
fan letters, love of glory had gone to Madrid. Instead of it, was the only glacial indifference this,
coupled with the disaster of his marriage, he had been forced to
retreat back to Peñascosa "Tail between his legs," as a serious biographer
quaintly said.

And claimed Montesinos vented his bitterness and spite blaspheming word when presented the occasion
and publishing articles in newspapers and magazines of the Masons. Fr Gil knew what to expect.
Bowed, however, this latter view, that reconciled to some extent the benevolent of her sister and
some friends with the bad reputation it had in the village. What surprise did not stop was that
while the clergy and traditionalists Peñascosa cordially detested him, the few Republicans
and Masons in the town had not demonstrated any estimates. Montesinos was said that they laughed
even more wins than Catholics constantly and had fled their treatment.

This news, which gathered on one side and other hiding, of course, your project, were calculated
to take away from him. Impenetrable mystery that surrounded the character the man was interested in becoming
more and more frightened him. He knew how to attract matter a lost soul in the bosom of the
Church, but when this soul was that of a heretic, an enemy bitter of it, the act grew enormously
in the eyes of God. Circling the idea conceived several times in order to immediately close to
him, talk and convince with reasons and entreaties but soon left him fearing failure. Not that
you fret her least in his self: he was determined to suffer for God with joy all kinds of
martyrdom, the more an insult. The fear was having to give an undertaking as noble and glorious.
Gradually he became convinced that God Himself enjoined especially this was the main task imposed
on him by sending him to Peñascosa. And convinced sublime that purpose is without prejudice
to the adoption of the most effective means to carry to a successful auction, resolviose to communicate
with her godmother and Dona Eloisa help. Grande was the joy of the good lady to get the confidence.
Earnestly applauded the project, satisfying the most ardent desire of his heart, and promised
to do everything humanly possible that such a beautiful dream come true. There were long talks
between the two in were sought and weighted means of carrying it out, were drawn and rejected
different plans and, finally, were agreed that the toilets were at the house of D. Álvaro on
behalf of his sister to ask for alms to widows and orphans of fishermen who had recently died
at sea.

Seizing the opportunity, might therefore need to be friend and slowly begin the work of his conversion.
Ms Eloisa not doubt the success, confident in the proper fund of his brother and virtue and science
of his godson. When ever told him about religious practices, Alvaro had responded with some rude
invective against clerics Peñascosa; thought about the idiots, other wicked all laughed heartily.
But what could I say about this boy so Well, as scholars, as pure and austere habits?

He was not so confident. As he approached the day of the visit, he felt more restless and fearful.
Insistently asked God to give strength and courage, and prepare their
arguments and even his sentences with exaggerated care.

One morning, after having been in prayer long time, left the rectory
with a firm step, saved the little distance between him Montesinos
Palace, entered the dark portal and pulled the bell cord greasy.

This sounded far waterfall and sad.

The priest's heart contracted, despite encouragement that the sentence
had been infused.

Presented itself after waiting a long time a servant elder sullen
countenance.

Seeing the toilet, his eyes hard and penetrating expressed astonishment.

-
D. Alvaro is?

Slow to answer.

- You can see that is! - Said after .-- never leaves.

- What can you do?

- Why not?

- Well, tell you that the curate of the parish want to talk to him on behalf of your sister
Ms Eloisa.

- No need. Come with me - he replied sharply.

And after you close and lock the door carefully, he walked forward.

Do not fail to surprise the air of authority to excuse the old home,
and what little they had the will his master to receive or not receive
visits.

After crossing a large courtyard, wet, poorly paved, which grew all over the grass, surrounded
by rough stone columns stained moss, rose by a rough stone staircase and also the steps spent
by the use. Saved on the main floor wide open corridor, with wooden floors, so deteriorated that
it was necessary to be careful not to put his foot through a hole. For all hand there is a
strange abandonment, the walls dirty, chipped, ground with a finger of dust, cracked ceilings;
there seemed an inhabited house, but an ancient abbey lonely.

The great manor house of Montesinos was rotting, crumbling, no owner
it tried to reform the child, without even notice it.

On the second floor raised led him through several rooms at the dilapidated and gloomy, finally
opened a glass door with dirty curtains, after taking a look on the
inside, said:

- He is not here.

There will be uploaded to the library.

Return to retrace his steps. They found a small door in the corridor close, and she came followed
by the priest's servant, up a spiral staircase darker and dirtier even as the rest of the house.
When they went into the half, Fr Gil heard on high and hacking squeeze dry again the heart of
fear. The library was one of the two square towers that house was on the side. There was a small
anteroom without any furniture, with unpainted wooden door, trays in use, the old push, saying:

-
Álvaro Here Mr. excuses that wants to talk.

The shock that he had in his body did not stop surprising the weird confidence servant. A man
so rich, so noble, so mysterious, familiarly by a servant!

The library was in hand with the rest of the house in the shabby and
dirty.

It was a great square tile, vaulted ceiling, the walls were covered with patches of rough
shelf books. They also went piled on the floor without any order or curiosity. The pasta was
bound with old, had also very modern rustic, but all alike were victims of neglect of the owner and
the ferocity of the dust. Two windows leaded glass, no curtains, illuminated the room. A modern
stove whose pipe supported by wires, broken glass left by the warming.
Impaired by a table, covered by a rubber ink spattered, sat in an
armchair old cow a man whose appearance and attire were well within
the decor of the room. Was Often the body, fat head, pale face, nose
and thin lips, small eyes and an indefinable color, russet hair and
thin, tiny, emaciated hands. Dressed a gown used, dirty, knotted around
his neck brought a silk handkerchief, and covered legs and feet with
a rug so bald and greasy as the gown.

As the door opened up his head,
his eyes green with yellow dots, as cats, were fixed on the priest
with a curiosity that became insolent the act of not getting more
than half of the chair or make even a nod. Fr Gil had been stripped
of the hat channel, bending beneath this confusing and annoying cold
and searching eyes. The servant retired and closed the door. She held an old-fashioned brown wicker cap-basket in
her hand, as if visiting were a thing of every day, and looked up at us as pleased and triumphant
as a child.

"Oh, what a poor, plain garden! Hardly a flower in it except your bush o' balm!" she said.
"But you do keep your garden neat, Almiry. Are you both well, an' goin' up country with me?"
She came a step or two closer to meet us, with quaint politeness and quite as delightful as
if she were at home. She dropped a quick little curtsey before Mrs. Todd.

"There, mother, what a girl you be! I am so pleased! I was just bewailin' you," said the daughter,
with unwonted feeling. "I was just bewailin' you, I was so disappointed, an' I kep' myself
awake a good piece o' the night scoldin' poor William. I watched for the boat till I was ready
to shed tears yisterday, and when 'twas comin' dark I kep' making errands out to the gate an'
down the road to see if you wa'n't in the doldrums somewhere down the bay."

"There was a head-wind, as you know," said Mrs. Blackett, giving me the cap-basket, and holding
my hand affectionately as we walked up the clean-swept path to the door. "I was partly ready
to come, but dear William said I should be all tired out and might get cold, havin' to beat
all the way in. So we give it up, and set down and spent the evenin' together. It was a little
rough and windy outside, and I guess 'twas better judgment; we went to bed very early and made
a good start just at daylight. It's been a lovely mornin' on the water. William thought he'd
better fetch across beyond Bird Rocks, rowin' the greater part o' the way; then we sailed from
there right over to the landin', makin' only one tack. William'll be in again for me to-morrow,
so I can come back here an' rest me over night, an' go to meetin' to-morrow, and have a nice,
good visit."

"She was just havin' her breakfast," said Mrs. Todd, who had listened eagerly to the long explanation
without a word of disapproval, while her face shone more and more with joy. "You just sit right
down an' have a cup of tea and rest you while we make our preparations. Oh, I am so gratified
to think you've come! Yes, she was just havin' her breakfast, and we were speakin' of you.
Where's William?"

"He went right back; said he expected some schooners in about noon after bait, but he'll come
an' have his dinner with us tomorrow, unless it rains; then next day. I laid his best things
out all ready," explained Mrs. Blackett, a little anxiously. "This wind will serve him nice
all the way home. Yes, I will take a cup of tea, dear,--a cup of tea is always good; and then
I'll rest a minute and be all ready to start."

"I do feel condemned for havin' such hard thoughts o' William," openly confessed Mrs. Todd.
She stood before us so large and serious that we both laughed and could not find it in our
hearts to convict so rueful a culprit. "He shall have a good dinner to-morrow, if it can be
got, and I shall be real glad to see William," the confession ended handsomely, while Mrs.
Blackett smiled approval and made haste to praise the tea. Then I hurried away to make sure
of the grocery wagon. Whatever might be the good of the reunion, I was going to have the pleasure
and delight of a day in Mrs. Blackett's company, not to speak of Mrs. Todd's.

The early morning breeze was still blowing, and the warm, sunshiny air was of some ethereal
northern sort, with a cool freshness as it came over new-fallen snow. His pride had been so nervous so excitable, that
the slightest shock to him as a deep stab sentíalo. His conscience constantly accused her of pride.
He maintained a struggle against itself cruel, and could not that singular calm irritability.

Fr
Gil sounded that day and thereafter (because Obdulia confessed often)
with deep true spirit of pious emotion, to which his struggle with
himself was even more interesting.

It was one of those souls who had only been described in mystical books. His ineffable sweetness
submission to receiving the advice and warnings, seduced him and was disturbed at the same time: worried
because he was very suspicious of himself, he feared could not understand the longings burning, the
lofty recesses of a being superior to all those who had hitherto known. He started strong focus on
the strange secrets of the young, their scruples, their joys and terrors, their visions, because
he was from time to time. Y and was not surprised that the other confessors had not understood.
Remembered what happened to Santa Teresa, which was proposed by example not to scorn by some
ridiculous trifles signals an alert conscience, nor considered as glare and optical illusions
which could very well be real favors from Heaven.

What most impressed with the piety of his new penitent was the desire to mortify. Was your body
without compassion, a delicate body as the stem of a flower.

Several times during night rose up to pray at dawn, in the wet and cold days of the year, leaving
home to go to church, where he spent several hours on his knees, fasted with a rigor that had
not seen in his ascetic master of the seminar, prolonged abstinence, terrible that seemed impossible
to resist; spent sackcloth in the legs and arms, and disciplined Fridays and the eves of feasts.
This detachment of the flesh, this hatred of the beast never felt the young priest. In vain
he had wanted to instill his spiritual director, for nothing had worked their entire lives to acquire
it. All was useless. Bodily penances ached, so terrified him that he had just started to adjourn.
Abused his spirit with great value, every aspiration stifled in him, I wish you all seem sinful,
humiliated him whenever he wanted, but feared the pain the most sensitive physical damsel: it
was accused confessor and hurt in their long and fervent prayers. So the harsh penance of
the young caused him admiration unlimited.

All admired more for what they lack. He never felt more humiliated or doubted both their virtue
and salvation. And they took as a warning from Heaven, it was proposed to try again this path
of perfection, which had traveled all who truly want to get closer
God.

Encouraged by the example of the pious maiden, began to abuse her flesh as she: each sample
ministered unto her confidences. It also wanted to fast rigorously, wanted also rise to the first
dream and spend an hour on the cross on his knees, he wanted to spend sackcloth wanted to discipline.
It was a terrible fight with her pure and quiet nature of man without passions, which therefore
does not feel the need to quiet them with whips.

His admiration for the virtuous maiden led him not only to take an example, but also counselor.
He was so humble and innocent heart that he was embarrassed having
to direct and reprimand in the background who considered superior.

Gradually began mutual confidence. The new priest, not having a spiritual director accommodated
Peñascosa their education mystical insensibly opened his chest and told the girl his joys,
their triumphs and their fainting on the road had been planned health. It was a spiritual friendship,
in that it was another matter that the service of God, who spent long periods talking softly of
the things of Heaven. Either missing or some little jokes in his talks innocent than rejoicing
for a brief moment.

- When you meet in heaven - he said smiling P. Gil, - very arrellanadita in seat allotted to him how
little will remember his poor confessor, who will suffer in purgatory!

-
Do not say that, father!

If you do not go straight to heaven, who has to go?

- Oh, no! - Responded with a sigh the priest .-- You have made me
a very concept wrong ... I am an unworthy sinner ... Give infinite
thanks to God if it takes me to purgatory but are there thousands
of years ...

And he said it with all my heart the virtuous priest.

Believed in good faith because he could not macerated, did not have
a solid basis, and rejoiced at the bottom of the soul to have stumbled
with a being who enjoyed this privilege.

AcuDial to mind often the example of P. Gracian, who both helped Santa Teresa on the path of
perfection with virtues and advice. Your crush asceticism led him to encourage rather than suppress
prudently his penitent.

Each mortification that it was inflicted and trembling and blushing came to relate in the confessional
was causing a deep joy, it seemed a triumph over sin and forging the illusion that it accounted
for a part of the victory.

Many and varied were the brave girl that got on the meat in space a few months. Just as corrupt
men exhaust their imagination in search of new pleasures, so she excelled in the invention of various
torments for her delicate body. Approval of his confessor, the words of praise that eluded him
despite his lips, no doubt warming fantasy and goad their impetus.

One day he spent twenty-four hours to take food, another threw ashes in his favorite dish, another
wore a wool shirt crude because of the meat, another disciplined to skip the blood, etc..

One afternoon he approached the confessional with the most radiant face, painted with intense joy in their
big black eyes and mysterious. Had just won a new victory over the enemy and longed to tell your
confessor. But this, rather than linger mystical colloquies as usual, and learn with affectionate
interest of their penances, their struggles with meat, complied severely
sins.

It was perhaps in a moment of melancholy or concentration of thought. Mantúvose a reserved
attitude, saying little, treating almost like a stranger. This book impressed the young. Hallab
it precisely in one of those moments of expansion, in which the chest is brimming with spiritual
joy. Thought to involve it in their righteous confessor. But lo and behold that it gives to
silence and confession short as possible. The young man stood up at last sad and unable to
repress a movement of despair. He took a few steps from the chapel, which was deserted. Suddenly,
can not overcome the desire to tell his confessor had been terrible penance out, comes back
to the confessional, not the window, but through the door.

- Father - said in a trembling voice, choked with emotion - I forgot to say tonight I did a penance
perhaps, excessive, it may be a sin.

The young priest looked up without fully understanding, expressing a dumb question.

- I burned with an iron.

The confessor remained silent, watching her distracted eyes.

- I
put the iron burn on the arm ...

The same silence.

Fr Gil, or was thinking about something else, or stupor had frozen.

No doubt the first thought Obdulia, she said with some vividness:

-
Yes, sir, I've done in the arm is burning ...

And at the same time
lifted the sleeve of the dress and laid bare an ugly and painful wound
I had in the forearm.

The priest went on as a poppy, and turning his head quickly, he replied
tartly looking at the tables of the confessional:

- Well, well ...
Let you ... It seems excessive, indeed ... Henceforth refrain from
do such penance without first talking to your confessor.

III

At eight o'clock in the evening after having dinner with D. Miguel
and have seen him retire to bed in the sweet company of flintlock
pistols, P. Gil left the rectory to toward the house of his protector
Ms Eloisa Montesinos.

Rarely went to the gathering that it met at night. Neither was happy about it, nor the severe
regime of the priest's house I consented. But her protector had complained of neglect, until
he thought he was cooler with it. Fearful of being branded as ungrateful and really sorry, because
he professed tender and respectful affection for the kind lady, resolviose to go more often,
making and submit to the pastor.

The strong shower water hit his face as he set foot outside the door. Opened the umbrella,
but a few steps, the wind was blowing gale in the Field of Fainting
it again.

Unable to close it and feeling violently pushed by the hurricane, the young excuses refuge
in black, huge portal of Montesinos. Never went past it without feeling a shiver of fear and curiosity.
Lived in that gloomy palace a mysterious man who had vaguely thousand strange stories, to whom were
attributed outrageous ideas and phrases in addition to religion and its ministers. The young cleric
just knew him. D. Alvaro Montesinos had spent most of his life in Madrid. For two or three years
only he had come to settle on rocks. He lived in an almost total withdrawal, occasional walking
rarely by the sea, all alone. The remaining days I spent locked up at home, it was said, reading
or writing articles wicked. The Peñascosa clergy spoke of him with contempt spiteful, which
had come to participate Fr Gil, without knowing.

Arranged his umbrella as best he could, and as the impetus the wind had calmed down instantly
went out of the portal, but not one look of fear and hostility to the huge black door the fund, on top
of which sadly burned an oil lamp behind a window gated.

He left the field of fainting and, once in Quadrant Street (which thus called the single largest and
most populated of rocks), and the wind was not blowing so hard and was able to take advantage
umbrella and get home of Ms. Eloisa, located in the square without seriously wet. The D. purple Martín
de las Casas was also old, but remarkably renovated more girl than her brother, with all facilities
and supplies required by the needs Modern: tiles portal gate, well carved poplar staircase with banisters
of patent, elegant rooms with friezes and papers, all very neat and Painted.

- Good eyes see you, father! How expensive is sold! - Ms. Eloisa said that since her protected had
received holy orders not tuteaba.

At the same time he rose and kissed his hand with real affection. So did Mrs. Rita Obdulia, who had
recently was assiduous gathering of the house, and Mrs. Marcelina
Serafina Barrado, despite the sidelong glance he directed his chaplain
D. Joaquín.

Ms Marciala and Mrs. Filomena became the distracted talking to D. Peregrin Casanova, and saluted
the order from his seat, smiling rosy.

While greetings lasted, D. Narciso, who was leaning back to the piano, no his eyes off his
companion, eyes where they read aversion and suspicion.

Without the P. Gil is the cause or even give good account of it, there was lively rivalry between
him and D. Narciso, who had started more than half of the daughters of confession. Well God
knew he had done nothing to get it, before, on the contrary, it weighed heavily each Once
one of them came to his confessional. But what he had to do? Nothing but confess, it was his obligation.
Insist that do not vary much as a confessor was granted too much importance to the issue of person:
he was not in the spirit of the sacrament. But the chaplain was not penetrated Sarrió the intention
of his partner, and whether was not much altered her feelings. Thus compatible with the result,
and it was sad him. Before the arrival of Gil field it can be said that only among the fair sex
of Peñascosa and ruled their consciences. Other chaplains did not shadow. It was the golden
boy of the pious. None of their jokes, their steps and gestures go unnoticed: the devout who had
the good fortune to hear or witness them, were responsible for distributing it quickly among her
friends. A damning evidence every moment of lively sympathy and veneration awakening in the village:
chasubles gifts of embroidery by fingers gorgeous body, the clerical collar of satin, etc.,
etc., offering even more positive, hams, bottles of sherry cakes and chocolate. D. Narciso was
admirably covered their spiritual needs and temporary. He was a shepherd, tending his sheep
happily, leading them gently the path of virtue to paradise and shearing from time to time the
rich fleece to not entangled in a thicket.

The appearance of your new companion came to breaking on the Arcadia delicious mystique. Sheep
sudden rush of insane excitement, began to jump and prance as if listen the happy sound of a pipe.
Neither Peter nor the blandishments managed to retain a most of them.

He was painting his flock, and he had had the strength to govern a herd that large, faint now to
be alone, sensing the hostility with which I watched some of their old and beloved sheep. For
not only no longer reached home the rich gifts overseas and nationals of other times, but
with deep felt pain that was beginning to discutírsele. It was said among the pious ladies,
and this came his ears, that if it was true that word was easier for the young toilets, most
of the time "there was no substance in what he said," and he preceded him much weight, natural
reason and instruction. There were times when throwing one of his jokes spicy, linked as always
with feces, barely produced laughter among listeners, and knew that one of them after he left,
he had been rude and poorly qualified educated. Of the body because there was no talking, well
it never reached could compete with the delicate and graceful figure of his opponent. In summary,
D. Narciso felt undermined the foundation and feared every moment to come to the floor. No wonder,
then, that the look and the greeting that welcomed the young priest were less affectionate
than be expected. Not remember little or much the kind reception that San Juan Bautista, master
held dear, and God made the young disciple who was soon eclipsed.

- Do not fights, women. Do you know, by chance, if it's easy to go out at night, with fear
that D. Miguel has to thieves? - Shouted D. Martín de las Casas from the triplet table where
he played with two others, a priest and a layman.

- No, sir, not that - "the cleric said, blushing under the eyes of the entire gathering.

- Did not have D. Miguel fear of robbers? - Asked smugly sharp focus
the Mr. de las Casas.

- Yes it is - the young man replied, smiling
sweetly, sitting at the same time next her godmother .-- Their reasons
will be.

The rich are those who fear. The poor, like me, are alone.

- But what will the priest as much money as they say? - Ms Marciala
asked curiously.

- I can not tell you, lady ... I presume so, because
it addresses a lot to his estate.

Their costs are small, and instead of increasing each day is restricted. Where to go long and
leaves little choice but to not have done plenty.

- The rights parish should produce a lot, right? - Asked even more
curious the wife of the apothecary of the square.

- You understand
that in a parish as large as it should not be short.

- But D. Miguel
forgive many of them - said the lady, with a slight turning comic
in his voice.

- It's possible, ma'am.

For my part, I have not seen - answered with perfect simplicity the toilet.

D. Narciso D. Joaquin, the chaplain of Madame de Barrado, exchanged
a meaningful glance.

The chaplain was a thin young man with roses in her cheeks, a sign
of a temper sickly, living and insolent eyes, thin nose, small mouth,
a hypocritical fold and malicious.

It had been a Dona Serafina testicles stuck at home to run errands and serve at the table, soon
after being widowed.

Noting the readiness and fond of him once transferred his residence
to Lancia, gave career, sending the seminar.

In the hours left him free lessons, Joaquín continued to play his
trade as a servant.

Then he took orders made him his manager, today was his feet and hands. Do not hit the streets
but in his company, was her spiritual director and counselor time. Curious spectacle indeed the
sudden transformation of a domestic master of his own love. It was you you always called him
D. Joachim and, publicly at least, he lavished a thousand samples respect, also forcing the
servants to tax.

Ms Eloisa reiterated, asking gentle accents:

- So what is the reason for his withdrawal, rogue?

- Madam, I understand that Mr Miguel does not like much to go out
at night, but the main This is because most of the days I am tired
... As I get up at four in the morning!

... Sometimes need a little prayer ...

- You work too, father - said Marcelina, a young unmarried girl who, in the words of the people,
already was nearing forty, ugly, leathery, very skillful hands and not a little also language
.-- So many hours of confessional! ... And then the sick!

...

- Not counting the hours he spends on his knees in prayer ...-- Obdulia
said shyly.

After to drop the phrase blushed.

D. Narciso thrust a unique look, ironic and aggressive, that she could not see, because it put
an effort into not looking face to face with his former confessor.

Fr Gil made an impatient, annoyed by those accolades, and to divert the conversation of his person,
he faced one of those who played the triplet.

- Mr Director, I have seen today from the rectory with the rod out
a very fat fish.

For Admittedly, I thought a mullet, and D. Miguel a robaliza. We played a little.

- The priest has a better view than you. A robaliza era - said the
gentleman seriously questioned, without looking up the charts.

This D. Romualdo Director was an old man with a mustache and short
white whiskers, sallow color, the brow furrowed with deep wrinkles,
large eyes, severe eyelid drooping.

No never smiled.

Constantly spoke with an accent in a bad mood, as a man disenchanted with everything.

- The Mullets do not fall into the spring, Don Gil of the green tights - uttered the lord of Houses
with his usual rudeness, if not rude.

I used to call it, jokingly, to his former protected.

- Yes down just, D. Martin of the White House - he uttered a dull voice director.

The pundits laughed, which piqued somewhat D. Martin, Male, as we know, prone irritated.

- I thought so, Minister of mischief - sarcastically replied, looking
intently at his face, and putting on the table at the same time a
king of hearts.

- So you thought very wrong - the old man replied,
his eyes always on the cards .-- Also did you think that king of hearts
would happen triumphant, y. .. you see, the bug!

- That'll make you
it is a rude and bad habits acquired back in Manchester.

Here the insurance Norberto father had not done.

- No, no! I am unable ...-- the priest said, choking with laughter,
coughing up .-- No burst Peñascosa I left ... What I do is shrink
and take that point of gold from my partner.

He put forward a four.

- Hooray for the cure! - Roared D. Martin, throwing the horse and picking the trick.

- Dude, I thought D. Martin did not have the horse - sighed D. Norberto, addressing Councillor eyes
in anguish.

- What did you think it is a babieca and has been all his life - he
said with affected naturally which shone through anger.

- But the
man of God !...-- said the cleric, ready to give explanations.

Counselor interrupted with angry gesture, firmly placing the cards face down on the table.

-
Man of the devil! I say ... How do you think of running a point not being covered? ...

Armos a violent dispute that lasted a few moments. The Advisor and P. Norberto no dragged on too
long, because he, a man of good pasta, phlegmatic, he concluded to remain silent shrugging
his shoulders with resignation and while shaking his head in silent protest. Those that were on
forever with D. Advisor Martin, both of which more irascible and stubborn.

D. Martín de las Casas, retired lieutenant colonel, who had made the war in Cuba, where had received
a wound in the shoulder that prevented him from continuing in service, is believed the case for
his profession, take it all for the tremendous. Since 1873 when it became the body of Invalids
did not come out of rocks. At that time had forty two years. His
wife was glad that forced retirement, but deplored that came to within
family with a cotton shoulder. Regarded as a virtue exalted, unique
to the military same energy in the field of battle that drinking coffee
in the casino. Their disputes, their bluffs in the recreation center
were proverbial in Peñascosa and slapping it used distributed at the
end of them too. Since the arrival of the tremendous Lt. Col. any
neighbor for serious and respectable as it was, was safe. Many nobles
and wealthy landowners of the village which until then had been kept
immaculate his cheeks, never dreamed that anyone could threatening
to them, were sealed and initialed the most neglected when the fingers
were the fierce invalid. This was due to a slow reflux among his friends
and acquaintances, which warmly received on his return from service. Mrs. Todd
had taken off her warm gloves and looked the picture of content.

"There!" she exclaimed. "I've always meant to have you see this place, but I never looked for
such a beautiful opportunity--weather an' occasion both made to match. Yes, it suits me: I
don't ask no more. I want to know if you saw mother walkin' at the head! It choked me right
up to see mother at the head, walkin' with the ministers," and Mrs. Todd turned away to hide
the feelings she could not instantly control.

"Who was the marshal?" I hastened to ask. "Was he an old soldier?"

"Don't he do well?" answered Mrs. Todd with satisfaction.

"He don't often have such a chance to show off his gifts," said Mrs. Caplin, a friend from
the Landing who had joined us. "That's Sant Bowden; he always takes the lead, such days. Good
for nothing else most o' his time; trouble is, he"--

I turned with interest to hear the worst. Mrs. Caplin's tone was both zealous and impressive.

"Stim'lates," she explained scornfully.

"No, Santin never was in the war," said Mrs. Todd with lofty indifference. "It was a cause
of real distress to him. He kep' enlistin', and traveled far an' wide about here, an' even
took the bo't and went to Boston to volunteer; but he ain't a sound man, an' they wouldn't
have him. They say he knows all their tactics, an' can tell all about the battle o' Waterloo
well's he can Bunker Hill. I told him once the country'd lost a great general, an' I meant
it, too."

"I expect you're near right," said Mrs. Caplin, a little crestfallen and apologetic.

"I be right," insisted Mrs. Todd with much amiability. "'Twas most too bad to cramp him down
to his peaceful trade, but he's a most excellent shoemaker at his best, an' he always says
it's a trade that gives him time to think an' plan his maneuvers. She
saw him, poor boy, emaciated and sickly, spending two to three hours kneeling in church without ever
enjoy the pleasure of running outdoors as children of the destitute fishermen without having a
companion with whom to communicate their innocent thoughts. One day like another. The sky is
always gray. Sadly the sea roaring on the rocks. The wind flapping violence on the glass. And
the silent house, gloomy, dirty, occasionally echoing walks with slow, rhythmic, his father. Lancia
could be seen later in studying the second education, staying at the home of a cleric of the same
temperament and habits than his father. His teammates despised him because of his weakness, his
lack of ability, teachers were I looked askance by nature reserved and sad. And back to the grim
holiday and hateful palace, the austere regime, the eternal prayers. Despite their ardent desire
to pursue a career failed. His father considered unworthy of primogeniture House Montesinos to
write a motion or a road map: the lawyers were called curia, engineers to masons, teachers maestrillos.
The military liked, but his ideas Traditionalists prevented him from sending his son to serve a liberal
government. Unable to serve their king with arms of a noble life should be up early to hear mass,
add a look at your finances, talk a while with the butler, playing triplets with the priests, then
give them a walk, pray the rosary, confession often and constantly giving example the plebeians
of virtue and piety, without ever rubbing them. But despite the large showing respect for the
priests kissing and holding hands in public, Álvaro remembered a detail that had always attracted
much attention, when eating the servants served before the master and his son that the chaplain
of the house. Aristocratic pride even more vivid beat in the heart of his father that the religious
sentiment, but he knew so well in the ally them depths of his conscience, which had come to believe
that religiosity was a quality deprivation aristocrats, and that distinguished it better than
any other of the multitude negligible.

Peñascosa could be seen in making the life of idle gentleman, as a
child under ten years despotic authority of his father.

Her imaginative spirit, a dreamer, could not stand that inaction. He began to read novels that
gave him sneak a lady who had tobacconist Quadrant street. Rose after the library, where a clergyman,
brother of her grandfather, Wise went through in life, had made great copy books, and began to devour
them. Read Plato, Descartes, St. Thomas, Fenelon, etc.

It was wise. But as the light of science in spirit, also slipped doubt.

What caused such cruel tortures! In his life, sad, monotonous, only religion, thought God, the
promise of immortality, of another world more just and more beautiful sweeten little the bitterness
of the hour. And behold, suddenly wary of this sweet promise, doubted whether all the truths
of religion, even the existence of God. At first went suspicious, dark, fearing that his father
discovered his abominable in the eyes thoughts. Then, cruelly tortured and overwhelmed by them,
anxious to find remedy your wrong, a hand that sustained him before falling into the abyss
of perdition, had the courage a day of throwing at the feet of his father and confess. The old
aristocrat was terrified and to remedy the folly of their child (so called) found no alternative
but to advise Penance, fasts, mortifications of all kinds. For him, these doubts did not come rebellions
rather than meat, which had to fight with the humility and discipline.

Suddenly jumped the barrier of doubt and fell on the field in disbelief.

Since then, neither a moment's hesitation, more and more convinced every day that this world
was worthless, and that out of this world had to wait otherwise. Death of his father and confessed
with remorse not sorry. Treat anxiety and breathed the air of freedom. There was a time when Life seemed
less horrible, the world had for him a sweet smile. It was when the well filled pocket, he went
to Madrid. First science offered comfort and entertainment. Caught up with avidity the latest
ideas in philosophy, history, science natural alternated, discussed with the most eminent men of Spain. And
he had the satisfaction to observe that there in his solitude of rocks, meditating on the ancient
books had reached the same results as the modern philosophers. Then came love, a dream sweet
and heady, pungent and divine music that was suspended some time on misery of the land, which
reconciled him to life and woke up in their hearts the hope infinite the illusion of immortal
bliss. The fall of that world of light, happy, smiling, was Cruel indeed, one of the blackest
pages in recorded history of mankind, where there are so black! ...

- By the way - leaving said his ecstasy painful skeletal hand from the front - I've had enough
time to seriously those things that you believe.

I had a hard time pain, many sleepless nights, many tears separate from them. Let me return
you so many tears I laugh a little now.

- So - said the priest shaking badly repressed - that, forgetting
entirely beliefs you sucked, the holy religion of their parents, declaring
you an enemy of God ...

- Yes, sir, the enemy of God and men ...
That is, unfortunately I can not God so, does not exist.

If there is, judging by his work, God would be a good evil. Can not be of God, I am of the men not
to harm but to flee them as they flee from the ferocious beasts.

Since I was born I have been experiencing many pain. However, I never tried to get back at them
because I know they are evil because it has created Nature or Fate, they hurt as do the beasts,
for selfishness that rages within every living being. The world is organized to devour beings
to each other. What happens between fish passes among men, only that we do not open your mouth
and swallow us hit the victim, which, after all, is an advantage for her, but we're eating
small bites, ripping the flesh until it a skeleton ... Can not you see me for me? - Added with
a smile on his face fierce pointing .-- The I have eaten fish that get it. I have left nothing
but bones.

Fr Gil, more and more terrified, dared to ask:

- And you think that there is on earth no man righteous, no virtuous
woman?

- Yes there are, but they are exceptional products of nature,
rather, are aberrations a body set up to evil.

Good men suffer the consequences of any aberration; can not survive.

All animals are born with a defense to fight in combat life, some
have teeth, others have claws, some have horns, some have wings flee:
the good man is the only animal that has no means of defense.

Not being able to fight, is fatally destined to perish. It is the poor fly in the vast tangle
spider web shaped by the rogues that make up the vast majority of mankind. The only consolation that
the good man can have is that their tormentors are not happy. The Life is a big fraud for all,
for good and for ill. Within the universe conceals a cunning force, perverse, that drives us,
leading us towards an unknown end for us, which have nothing to do. To this end we need mysterious
and forces us to reproduce. We do not mind unhappy. The individual for her is nothing, the
species is everything. Work as the owner of a livestock kill before a good horse that no longer
works, forces him to leave an infant. Concerned only with perpetuity so you will not ever
missing instruments, deceives us with the lure of pleasure, ambition or pride. Yourself, who
does not work for any of these phones, is also an instrument of the species. To worry about
the fate of these poor orphans, seeking earnestly the means of living, you unconsciously obeys
the orders of the evil force. When not just the attraction of pleasure for the preservation
of life, appeals to the sense of compassion that has placed within us.

Fr Gil, who was listening so petrified string of blasphemies, he felt a thrill of horror upon hearing
that interpretation monstrous sense of charity. In this thrill followed by a lively irritation. It
took a great effort of will not to break into insults against blasphemy.

- It's all very well - said controlling himself and forced smile, - but you will excuse me ask
you a question.

In that dismal pessimism as you profess, the idea deplorable that you have formed the world
and men, in that brutal atheism (pardon the phrase!) which has to exhibit much pleasure, are you sure
that everything depends on cool and collected right? Do not be influenced by any individual sorrows,
events your life miserable?

Feline eyes flashed angry gentleman, he was wounded to the quick.

- Ah, the eternal ditty! - Impetuously exclaimed .-- When you can not attack a theory will scrutinize
the motives of that supports it.

What are you trying to prove with that?

Suppose that the world is a paradise, that all men except me, are happy, and my pessimism depends
on a whole of my misfortune. Will I say so in the evil that has touched me in luck? Are not I
entitled, wretched creature, to describe God (if any) perverse, may have made me as happy as
others made me unhappy? Anyone who suffers on earth can ask God like Job: When the existence
will asked for nothing? ... For the rest - said adopting a contemptuous tone, insulting - from
you have entered through that door I knew what was coming. I will not argue with you because
bore me. I am convinced that you believe religion is nothing more than a set hypothesis innocent
as those of all other religions invented by poverty and cowardly men, who can not resign himself
to dying good as other living beings, as irrefutably teaches us experience, that can not be convinced
that they are born for pain. And not think on a whim, but after having studied and pondered
the matter at length, after following step by step carefully the history of religions more important.
If I were to choose one among them would certainly be no Christianity which is one of the saddest and
most senseless. What happens to me Goethe: the cross grates on me nerves. Neither Thomas or St.
Augustine, and Fenelon, and Pascal have convinced me. Therefore, none of you convince me. You
have no respect for me that you pay his character and his works. Of their science and of all his
colleagues, bishops and archbishops me laugh out loud.

His eyes shone fiercely, looking down, but these eyes softened tremble suddenly saw the tears in her
P. Gil.

- Excuse me, sir, excuse - was quick to say, approaching him - if
I have offended.

I have a bad temper ... I get irritated easily ...

- Goodbye, sir, goodbye - said Fr Gil, shaking the hand that proffered Montesinos .-- A I'm not
offended ... It is God who ...

- So I'm happy, because it does not matter .-- ...-- replied smiling
bye.

You know you have a friend here and a house available.

V

Damn left the house in a state of indescribable confusion and sadness.

Refused go to Ms Eloisa, who was waiting impatiently. When I later saw her, manifestole failure
in short and clean words.

For a few days made efforts to remove from your thinking that unpleasant interview and even blasphemous
image. Overwhelmed, crushed by a reception so brutal, no idea who had no means of fighting that
devil full of anger and rage of impiety. But His words resounded day and night in his ears, chasing
him, hurt him as cruel lashes. Knew some arguments of the heretics, those who brought the books of
theology and that the author, with the authority of the Fathers, always victoriously refuted.
Knew the existence of the rationalists, but the news was weak and vague. I had never been expressed
in a way so cynical atheism. I did not think he was truly had convinced that God did not exist.

Dissipated,
however, after a while printing, could not help thinking that had unnerved soon. Too knew that the sheep
had not been good to deliver First, it would be a cautious man, scholar,
who was not to attract four common spaces.

So why suddenly folded? Why give up without a fight? Fr Gil pleaded with his usual sincere
modesty, he was not prepared for this fight. Under the ironic and cynical statements of primogeniture
guessed Montesinos Throughout the study area, a thoughtful and complete. To combat this system
and reasoning can be argued that the wickedness was necessary to know in advance, discuss and
weighted prior to the head, then, to appear in the mouth of the unbeliever, destroy, Dust them.
So do not be afraid to try again this coveted conversion.

But the more difficult it was, the more obstacles in the way, more alive was their desire to achieve.
In the lives of the saints had ever seen were taken for defeated in their struggle with sin. By huge,
impossible for the company out, over and over time rushing with increasing
ardor, relying solely on God's help.

Should make another both. If he lacked strength, God is the lend. Work tirelessly to achieve the
return of the prodigal son, to destroy this hotbed of wickedness that could infect the hearts
Peñascosa healthy, to remove that stumbling block.

It was decided in his mind that he would return back to the load. But this time would be better
disciplined, well known all arguments of the heretics and lead prepared replication. Communicated
with his teacher, rector of the seminary of the Lancia conversion
project and asked him to request the bishop for permission to read
forbidden books.

He soon send it the rector, but in the letter that accompanied it did not appear very enthusiastic
about the company his disciple. The ascetic priest enjoyed more perfect believers and good souls,
in attracting definitely were in the grip of sin.

The first thing I happened to read the P. Gil was a certain life of Jesus, very popular at the
time between the wicked and which he always spoke with contempt mingled with terror at the seminar.
He read with deep pain and sadness. Our Lord Jesus Christ was considered
by the heretic to write it as a man.

He lavished praise thousand laughable, I manifest exaggerated admiration, but it was to better
demonstrate their unique human condition and slide poison of impiety with more fruit. The book was
full of lies. "Christianity, said, is a historical phenomenon and as such must be studied historically.
"This was obviously absurd, because Christianity does the redemption of mankind by the Son of
God; is the revelation of divine truth. The author asked to examine the accounts of the Gospels
by the same principles that any other tradition is judged, not be imposed criticism beforehand
the results and let her preconceived hypothesis-free. This was another absurd, for how we must apply to
faith, the word of God, the same principles than facts and words of men? This was answered one
by one author's arguments rationalist, and undo.

Concerned with this discussion and willing to externalize the internal, as happens with everything
and pregnant filling our spirit, ventured to make another visit of the estate of Montesinos. This time
it was very good, most gracefully, as if you prick the conscience your last rudeness. They
talked about indifferent things.

Montesinos had the opportunity to express I had very good news for his character, who knew
the virtues that adorned them. The P. Gil blushed and responded to these compliments, smiling sadly,
that what I want at that time was very talented and a lot of science to convince the truth
of revelation. "Do what revelation? - Had asked the gentleman kindly smiling too .-- How Disclosure
of what? - Yes, which one? because there are several: Christians, Buddhists, Moslems, Jews,
all believe their religion revealed by God .-- I mean the only true, of revelation of Jesus
Christ .-- And on what grounds you to believe that this is true and others false? - In what
other things are full of monstrous, irrational - answered imperious cleric - in which only the religion of the
Crucified meets all expectations of our feelings and our reason you .-- Be careful, Mr. toilet! - cried
mayorazgo releasing a hearty laugh - you are doing the revealed truth depend the assertion
of reason, that you are proclaiming the supremacy of the Constitution, which is a proposition heretical
.-- How? How? - Stunned the priest asked. "But the conversation changed Montesinos sharply. He dared
not insist.

It took hard work swallow that pill. Was a portion of days without hardly think something else.
The idea that without realizing it could incur any error condemned by the Church deeply disturbed him.
 "There was such a plenty o' men's voices; where I sat it did sound beautiful.
I had to stop and listen when they came to the last verse."

I saw that Mrs. Todd's broad shoulders began to shake. "There was good singers there; yes,
there was excellent singers," she agreed heartily, putting down her teacup, "but I chanced
to drift alongside Mis' Peter Bowden o' Great Bay, an' I couldn't help thinkin' if she was
as far out o' town as she was out o' tune, she wouldn't get back in a day."

XX. Along Shore

ONE DAY as I went along the shore beyond the old wharves and the newer, high-stepped fabric
of the steamer landing, I saw that all the boats were beached, and the slack water period of
the early afternoon prevailed. Nothing was going on, not even the most leisurely of occupations,
like baiting trawls or mending nets, or repairing lobster pots; the very boats seemed to be
taking an afternoon nap in the sun. I could hardly discover a distant sail as I looked seaward,
except a weather-beaten lobster smack, which seemed to have been taken for a plaything by the
light airs that blew about the bay. It drifted and turned about so aimlessly in the wide reach
off Burnt Island, that I suspected there was nobody at the wheel, or that she might have parted
her rusty anchor chain while all the crew were asleep.

I watched her for a minute or two; she was the old Miranda, owned by some of the Caplins, and
I knew her by an odd shaped patch of newish duck that was set into the peak of her dingy mainsail.
Her vagaries offered such an exciting subject for conversation that my heart rejoiced at the
sound of a hoarse voice behind me. At that moment, before I had time to answer, I saw something
large and shapeless flung from the Miranda's deck that splashed the water high against her
black side, and my companion gave a satisfied chuckle. The old lobster smack's sail caught
the breeze again at this moment, and she moved off down the bay. Turning, I found old Elijah
Tilley, who had come softly out of his dark fish-house, as if it were a burrow.

"Boy got kind o' drowsy steerin' of her; Monroe he hove him right overboard; 'wake now fast
enough," explained Mr. Tilley, and we laughed together.

I was delighted, for my part, that the vicissitudes and dangers of the Miranda, in a rocky
channel, should have given me this opportunity to make acquaintance with an old fisherman to
whom I had never spoken. At first he had seemed to be one of those evasive and uncomfortable
persons who are so suspicious of you that they make you almost suspicious of yourself. Mr.
Elijah Tilley appeared to regard a stranger with scornful indifference. You might see him standing
on the pebble beach or in a fish-house doorway, but when you came nearer he was gone. He was
one of the small company of elderly, gaunt-shaped great fisherman whom I used to like to see
leading up a deep-laden boat by the head, as if it were a horse, from the water's edge to the
steep slope of the pebble beach. There were four of these large old men at the Landing, who
were the survivors of an earlier and more vigorous generation. 

The news had been feeling at all. There were few who knew where his wife Montesinos, although
everyone knew the incidents of marital drama that he had withdrawn the Peñascosa entailed estate.
But what was just curious strangers, the good Dona Eloisa offered, of course, with the appearance
of deep and profound emotion. Intended course to find out what happened at his brother, later sought
to be her husband, wanted send a servant. A whole opposed D. Martin, seeing things more coldly,
comprised any step of these at the moment was inopportune. The conversation was extremely animated,
to the point that ombre suspended the game and took part in it. Comments that were made infinite. Thousand
scenarios were forged on the case. Some felt that the wife sorry, came to apologize to her husband, others
who made the trip just to claim of food, others that his intent was to formalize sue for divorce,
others had called her husband, unable to banish from his heart the love that the professed (Most
of the female element was inclined to this assumption), other than P. Gil, motu own, had written
to Ms Joaquin and had prepared the scene, so that D. Álvaro forgive her, others who had persuaded
him to that calling Peñascosa. Missing or not who assumed that D. Alvaro and his wife had long
corresponded, and it was she who refused to come to visit him until the present time.

- Anyway, what is beyond doubt is that the P. Gil has a very major intervention in the case
because he owns the glory of Reconciliation - said gravely D. Narciso.

-
If so - said Director.

- The will - said the chaplain .-- The will,
and here D. Maybe Martin will soon taste see a nephew who will distract
you with their antics and their thanks.

D. Martin, who his hero's soul did not detract from having a great
desire to inherit the brother, whose health was feeble, wrinkled his
nose and muttered rudely:

- I do not care.

- I do not think I can
not believe it, D. Martin.

You can not fail to cheer the noble Montesinos home is not extinct, that anyone honorably carry
this name ... Then has to look good that big house with a few guys
who rejoice with laughter and shouts.

The work of Father Gil is the most meritorious that has taken place, and why has made very good.

Obdulia
stabbed an angry look, but tempered suddenly said with a smile innocent

- You have nothing to envy, Don Narciso. Who does not remember the town's many marriages through
it are now well-matched? Without going any further, everyone knows that D. Feliciano wanted
very little to Ms. Nieves ... and as you see today are like two chicks.

This D. Feliciano was the husband who was said in secret, had broken
a leg P. Narciso throwing down the stairs.

Bystanders looked uneasily. There was an awkward silence. Counselor dropped the laughter, and exclaimed,
putting a letter on the table, as referring to the game:

- Come on, you return the other!

Everyone understood that the father was going Narciso, and this increased
concern.

The cleric blushed and whispered:

- Thank you.

We all have an obligation ...

- You go beyond the obligation, father ... Often what you do is pure
devotion - said Osuna's daughter with charming simplicity.

- Yoho
- she cried Director, staring at cards.

- What is it, D. Romualdo?
- Asked laughing D. Norberto .-- Have you played the three of clubs?

-
Yes, sir, but I take comfort that there are clubs for everyone.

-
Well, I have none - replied the priest candid.

- Another will receive!

-
We do all we can, but there is no doubt that some are stronger than
others.

Fr Gil is a saint, an apostle of the early days of the Church. None of us has the presumption of competing
with him in zeal or wisdom - expressed D. Joaquin, coming in aid
of his friend, with a chuckle poison that would jump a stone.

- In
wisdom you may have reason, D. Joaquin - Obdulia strongly replied,
- but zeal, I think you are wrong.

You're too modest ... There is flatter, but in the case of jealousy,
I think you're as jealous as the first, right, Dona Serafina?

A grunt escaped all strange point at the time of the throat of Director,
to which was immediately followed by a violent fit of coughing that
left him breathless by some seconds.

D. Joaquin also felt some itching in the throat, forcing him to cough
back head.

Ms Serafina did not answer the question, because I was distracted talking to Ms Eloisa.

The conversation veered, as if tacitly all agreed that this was dangerous. Soon after he ceased
to be general, and returned to form the usual cliques.

D. Martin was cranky and disputed every move. Ms Eloisa spoke quietly of the case. None by
great it was, managed to disrupt the nervous system of the good lady. Your contact Ms Serafina
was conducting frequent glances and smiles to his chaplain, but it
had suddenly serious, frowning.

A cloud of sadness also passed through the beautiful passionate soul of a respectable widow,
and his eyes began to be shy, restless, filled with silent reproach.

Rang the doorbell. Nobody noticed it more than the mistress of the
house and Obdulia, which pale face was covered.

She stared at the door with dread, as if she were to enter a ghost: his nerves were placed in tension
under a mysterious magnetic influence. One minute after the curtain came alzose the slender figure
of P. Gil.

All eyes turned to him with an expression of curiosity. The news of the arrival of Joaquin's
was startled: they longed to know what had happened. But before no one spoke and the priest
gave way whatsoever for the room, Obdulia rose from the chair rose abruptly to him and dropped
to his knees at her feet.

At the same time took her hand and began to print to it live and loud kisses, while running
down their cheeks the tears and sobs broke chest. Fr Gil wanted to tear those demonstrations,
but could not. The repentant maid was holding his hands clenched. Disturbed until unspeakable, could
not say more than ...

- Obdulia, you calm down ... Calm down you! Calm yourself, my God! Get you! ... Get you, for
God's sake ...

His face white, pearly blush was covered live. A breath of delicate emotion and mystical ran through
the gathering. Some girls also blushed. The clergy looked each other. Counselor, after casting a sly look
of complete indifference to group, became again the view of the cards and muttered:

- The Redeemer and Mary Magdalene!

But Obdulia released at the end the priest's hand and fell to the ground, gripped by a violent
attack nerve. Then all the ladies rushed to her and care lavished usual. For similar and identical
scenes were frequent attacks on that gathering of virgins and widows mystical nerve. Surfaced
knobs, vials of antispasmodic.

A strong odor of ether was then spread around the room.

VIII

"The distinction between so-called organic and inorganic nature is
completely arbitrary.

The life force, as commonly conceived, is a chimera.

The matter resides life there is nothing special. Does not exist in any fundamental organic bodies
that is not already in inorganic nature: the only special thing is the movement of this matter.
Life is not just a particular way more complicated mechanics: a portion of the total matter
happens from time to time in its usual course other combinations chemical and organic, then
it has remained in them a certain period back to the movement general. "

Fr Gil read with deep emotion these and similar propositions in a book he had removed from the library
of D. Álvaro.

Then he did an act of faith with the historical books thereof, concerning the origins of Christianity,
was a long time without even taking in the hands of any other library. Of the estate continued
to visit occasionally, but fled from any metaphysical conversation. D. health Álvaro visibly
worsened since sudden arrival and departure of his wife. His sadness, he inspired his miserable
state each compassion day. The horror felt for him before he disappeared. Above religious and
philosophical differences, the opposition of intelligence and character peeked briskly the love
of humanity beating in the heart of the young priest deeply Christian. D. Alvaro was a brother
who suffered. Given this consideration, all others fail in the souls which has blown the sublime spirit
of the Nazarene. But D. Nor was the evil Álvaro Demon, which was represented in the early days
who knew him. At times it seemed. A demon talked and laughed through his mouth at times, cursing
God and man. In others, however, showed himself sweet, affectionate, compassionate, and spoke
with such innocence seemed to be listening to a child. Although defend against it, Father Gil
could not help to feel more and more fans for this unfortunate.

One morning I was chatting both in the cabinet used as an office tower and library. D. Alvaro
had been up all night coughing. I was tired, bruised.

After a while closed his eyes and was transposed into the chair. Fr Gil and thought good to
wake to say goodbye, not dared to go without it. In this uncertainty, he began to browse some
books who were scattered on the table. Encountered his eyes with one of geography, idly and
read a few paragraphs. After reading succeeded interest. The author described picturesquely some
unknown regions and phenomena of the sea was very curious. The P. instruction Gil in the natural
sciences was very limited. In the seminar Lancia they occupied a low priority: only if students
were required notions minor in physics, chemistry and natural history. Furthermore, had always
professed certain contempt for the president instilled his teacher, the contempt they feel toward
the ascetic everything that is related to the subject. So I caught these new descriptions. The
book was famous in the scientific world, had heard of him, but never fall into their hands
until then. Titulábase Cosmos, its author, Alexander Humboldt. When D. Álvaro opened eyes at last
and saw him engaged in reading, he asked, smiling:

- Are you interested in this book to you, father?

- Very.

- Well, you take it ... Take you the first volume, this is the second.

And getting up and taking it out of a cabinet, he introduced him to
the priest.

This hesitation to take it.

- Is condemned by the Church?

- I do not think - the gentleman replied
smiling .-- It is a purely expository book unintentionally some controversy.

In

this trust took home the first volume and began eagerly to read it. Began with an eloquent description
of the outer world, the panorama of celestial grandeur. The author vigorous boom unfolded the
huge mechanism of rotating bodies in the space. Passed before his eyes shocked worlds after
worlds, system after system in succession endless starry universes, fast-flying huge balloons on another
whirlwind themselves, thrown at full speed in empty deserts. What speed, eternal God! A cannon
ball is a tortoise in comparison. These balloons, thousands and millions times larger than
our earth, walking hundreds of thousands of miles per day. Under the colossal forces compelling
action, mystery, are caught by the space lightning speed. And they are all worlds where life
throbs with eternal and wonderful fertility: the same combination of movements are the renewal
of his youth and beauty are so many suns that spread and transmitted as ours to other lands accompanying
his light and life. They also stand the beautiful mountains crowned Snow, also the wind sighs
in the woods and landscapes are portrayed in lakes silent; also displayed on the surface of
the immensity of the ocean, agitated, sometimes turbulent, sometimes calm, lit by the glow of
the twilight; also suffers, also has also struggle, also loves ... And all these houses space
sail across the ocean to the sky without fear of stumbling blocks, shocks or the storms, sustained
and guided by an invisible force that ever wrong. More Beyond the thousands of stars, we perceive
at first glance, there are a hundred million perceive with the telescope, beyond these one hundred
million there are millions of millions more, that travel with speeds terrifying immensity.
That which appears as a little white powder as slight imperceptible vapor, is a nebula, millions
of suns as large and larger than ours is formed, escorted by a legion of planets and satellites
that breathe and drink his breath. And this nebula is only a province of the ether. Beyond it is another,
and others to infinity.

Inconceivable to those movements that draw on the thousands and endless deserts thousands of
suns, with that huge waterfall, the rain starts rolling ceaselessly the depths of space to these
orbits incommensurable, with those distances and speeds where the
imagination is lost, described with the firmness of a scholar and
a poet's fire by Baron Humboldt, the young priest he was seized with
vertigo.

Sujetose the temples with his hands and spent a long time with eyes closed. When opened, saw
the cheeks wet. Some tears had slipped through her eyelashes.

A deep melancholy invaded his soul. Why? Do all these wonders are not preached the greatness
of the Creator? No doubt, but despite this, the grief choked him, as man who is suddenly lost
in the middle of the ocean. Was used to measure insignificance in the moral order, their wickedness
and perversion compared with the infinite goodness of God.

But I had never seen so obviously it tiny and microscopic nature. The land we live on a poor
seemed ridiculous balloon sailing through space without being notice or direction from anyone.
Wars, catastrophes and historical transformations that she made things so despicable and laughable
as the struggles of beings inhabit a drop of water. And what was worse, Jesus Christ, whose
figure, even in its moments of doubt, he always appeared high and majestic, was now presented to
his imagination as a speck of dust, the story of redemption, as insignificant as the falling
of a leaf.

He wanted to penetrate further into the study of nature. After Cosmos read another portion of
books on astronomy, physics, geology. Gradually became accustomed to seeing in the phenomena
natural result of the activity of the forces inherent to matter.

The world could been formed without the intervention of an Intelligence, by the mere action
of natural laws. The old idea of ​​a clever architect, an inspiring personal instincts weakened
in its spirit. And at least I imagined he began to doubt the existence a separate personal God
of the Universe. The act of creation found it inconceivable absurd. Everywhere he saw the action of
a constant force that operates according to laws fatal not a God who can act on a whim, whose
will is able to counteract these laws.

The idea was terrifying. Fr Gil made desperate efforts to throw your brain but to no avail. Fell
back into that state of doubt anxious to be allowed the Biblical
exegesis books, much more frightening and miserable because he was
released in full materialism, far from the idea of ​​God and immortality.

He fought bravely trying represented at all hours of the sublime truths of religion, the idea
of ​​a God father of souls, architect and director of the Universe, who offend our sins, who
soften our prayers and our tears, clinging with all his soul to these strong doctrines was a
whole day together with fervent longing to them, but when most neglected was a wicked thought,
fatal, fell into his brain and turned everything upside down. The idea of ​​separate personal
God of the universe seemed absurd, because God would not be so infinite, since it was limited
by the world, the belief that our prayers can alter the course of natural laws, a tale of old
to trick children, religion, together, a series of myths, more or less ingenious and beautiful,
created by fantasy alive but men still children. When this was happening, P. Gil tore his
hair and biting his hands, stuck his face on the pillow, to see if I could stop thinking. Self was
horrified.

After the unfortunate event that deprived D. Miguel license to confess and say Mass, He was in charge
of the parish. And although it was restored shortly after the pastor, Bishop would not be shepherd
over sheep Peñascosa. Not deprived of the parish (this could not), but gave him a coadjutor for
the post.

This office was mandated interim Fr Gil, pending the final appointment. The full weight and
responsibility of the cure Peñascosa souls of wine to fall, then, upon our priests in the time
when most needed it that would heal her own, torn by doubt. The work of safeguarding the interests
of religion, to keep alive in that town the torch of faith, which was for him before a source of pure
enjoyment, it was grievous, odious became a torment. How what right up to the chair of the Holy
Spirit to expound the divine word, or heard in the confessional the sins of the believer,
or stood at the altar of the Sacred Host, he who doubted whether the words of the Gospel were spoken
by Jesus or not, whether auricular confession was divine law or an institution created in the
interest of hierocracy, if the sacrament of Eucharist contained a sublime truth or was reminiscent
of the symbols and mysteries religions of the East?

Many afternoons, overwhelmed by his thoughts, he went out and walked along the banks step lonely sea.
The breeze freshened the temples, the view of the ocean calmed fever of his brain. He sat on
a rock battered by the waves, and stayed for hours with eyes fixed on the horizon ecstatic.
The stunning beauty of the spectacle could not captivate.

Neither the clamor of the waves, and its changing mantle of silver and opal and sapphire, or the
celajes beautiful burnt by the rays of the dying sun never completely calmed her front. The same
painful wrinkle always crossed the same fatal interrogation read constantly in it. Does this
eternal agitation of the water is more than just a blind force pushing atoms against each other?
Is the beautiful light that reverberates on the horizon is more than a vibration of matter? That
bird that cleaves the air and plunges into the water catch and devour a hapless fish, what
mystery stored inside your body? How do I treat I am nothing more than an individual expression of the force
that animates all beings Universe?

But when these thoughts, always horrible, I squeezed as the strings of a colt made it irresistible
when he was rushing to time exercise any function of their sacred ministry. If we celebrate the
Holy Sacrifice of the Mass or give absolution crossed a penitent spirit of these dark thoughts,
I felt the same impression if you gripped the brain with a hot iron,
he assaulted a heartbreak that left him paralyzed.

I thought dying. I longed to get rid of that ordeal.

One day he was told to bring Viaticum to a village near the town. As needed some time walking
across the fields, was no bell and summon the faithful. Left alone with the clerk, the body bag
slung over her neck and the Sacred. The road stretches clung to the edge of the sea. As always fascinated
by the immensity of ocean, distracted his attention from the ineffable
mystery that wore on his chest, stopped stammer prayers and gave his
thoughts to the same meditations that night and day was upon him long
time.

The sun's rays scattered on the glass of water compelled him to action considered supreme,
omnipotent in this star on Earth life. It is he who has created the observer, who renewed. The
flower owes its perfume, its fierce agility and bloodthirsty instinct, our sweetest soul impressions
or terrible. The Sun is the father of all, love and hate. Then considered that life is more
than a immense dynamism within which transform the formidable forces of physics and chemistry.
All beings on earth, humans, animals, plants, are closely linked. Life of these is a single,
universal life and this is not nothing but a constant change materials. A universal movement
drags the atoms, as the worlds. Thousand ripples intersect in the atmosphere, a thousand forces
combine, heat and light, the affinity and magnetism join the mysteries of the vegetable and
mineral. All beings are made of the same molecules, which pass successively and regardless
of each other, so nothing property belongs to them. Our body is renewed so that after a certain
time and we have not an ounce of body material that we had before. This renewal movement operating
in each of the animals in each of the plants. The millions who inhabit the surface of the globe
live in mutual exchange of organisms. The oxygen molecule now breathed breath was yesterday
one of the trees lining the road. The molecule carbon burning in one of these piles of dried leaves
used to fertilize the soil, may have burned yesterday in the lungs of a hero. Perhaps one of
those oyster shells lying attached to these rocks to hide the match that was most precious fibers the
brain of Jesus Christ ...

He felt within himself something that tears and falls. I had completely forgotten that led him the divine
body of the Redeemer. It seemed a thing so strange, so out of touch eternal saw and touched,
she imagined must be dreaming. And without knowing what his dark hole be coming, we undertook
a fierce desire, wicked, laugh. What comedy was it? A little flour mixed and toast yesterday's
housekeeper D. Miguel was transformed if by magic in the person of Jesus Christ, a being who disappeared
from among the living does nineteen centuries. "These sovereign laws, sublime nature, be raped
because few insects in this microscopic world council meeting in the decree? Separated eyes
from the sea and set in the sexton, who ran before whistling to his
dog, which escaped after some chickens.

What reverence of the man, leading his side to God of heaven, the Creator of all things! And
the laughter rose from the chest when with more energy, reaching to the throat, he played on his
lips, was about to explode.
 Mrs.
Todd had hardly spoken all day except in the briefest and most disapproving way; it was as
if we were on the edge of a quarrel. It seemed impossible to take my departure with anything
like composure. At last I heard a footstep, and looked up to find that Mrs. Todd was standing
at the door.

"I've seen to everything now," she told me in an unusually loud and business-like voice. "Your
trunks are on the w'arf by this time. Cap'n Bowden he come and took 'em down himself, an' is
going to see that they're safe aboard. Yes, I've seen to all your 'rangements," she repeated
in a gentler tone. "These things I've left on the kitchen table you'll want to carry by hand;
the basket needn't be returned. And this thrill was communicated to the young priest and down
in the depths of his being. What she felt in her soul was no pain, no agitation, or distress,
was just cold, deadly cold gnawing bones. Never seen so alone and helpless. His eyes were
fixed on the ground stubbornly. She dared not lift and question the immensity as usual. He was sure
his response and feared.

When he reached the first houses in the suburbs of the worms had already closed the night. Al
pass one of the poorest and dirty got his attention the noise of blows and started screaming
inside. Stood still scared and tried to figure out what it was. Lighted by small windows could
be seen but not violently shaken some shadows. To his ears came, among the confused shouting, some
swearing that he shook. Suddenly violently opens the door and rush out a black mass, triggered
by a hands immediately closed again. Fr Gil acknowledged in that black mass to a cleric. He approached
and saw that it was diligent Fr Norbert, with his cloak and no hat.

- D. Norberto! What is that? What happens?

- Hello, darling.

Nothing, nothing ... is not - responded without stunning.

- If something
happens ... What have they done to you in that house?

- Nothing,
nothing ... Come to meet people.

- Are you going to go without a
hat?

- It's true ... I will ask ... Wait a little.

But at that moment out of a window of the house and flew off his hat, falling in the middle of
the road, that is, close to the clerics.

At the same time a rough voice said, accompanied by several interjections:

-
Take the tile thief.

If you come back here, you leave without the ears.

Fr Norberto was quick to pick it up and started walking.

- But you
explain to me ...-- said the coadjutor with him and making efforts
to keep step.

- I'll explain ... There below.

When they had gone to the worms, bran into the square and the streets of the Quadrant, D. Norberto
shortened a little step.

The toilet used the occasion to press their questions.

- Let's see,
what happened to you?

- Well, look at that house lives a girl, a
girl just fifteen years old, who her mother is a prostitute, delivering
it to the horse trader called Pepe the Manchego.

- And you've gone
there to see if her out of his clutches?

- I had already seen twice,
and seemed ill-disposed, but do not know who gave breath that man,
and now suddenly appeared and made a fuss.

- Jesus!

Are you hurt! - Gil said the father, seeing a few drops of blood running the cheeks of your
partner. At the same time he lifted his hat slightly and saw had
a hit in the forehead, where the blood started.

- But this is an
indignity!

Let's take part then the judge ...

- Do not think about that, dear ... This is worthless ... The part
of all would be lost, is would a scandal, and the girl, looking lost,
would these people with the shawl.

Staying Here, I have hope that with a little skill will achieve that devil take it off and
reduce the same mother ... This is nothing - he said wiping the blood with his handkerchief
.-- What I something else is hurt this shoulder ...

- But what has given you more hits?

- I was shaken a little sheepskin - answered innocently laughing .-- It is a matter of arnica
and rest ... I think that hurts me. Was too lounging ... For some time every day I invite
to calluses ... I getting too fat, do not you think?

Fr bye Gil at the door of his house and walked to walk towards lighter yours. It seemed as if he
had been relieved of the burden that was overwhelming.

He felt relaxed the deep melancholy that oppressed him all the way, and ran for his inexplicable
be sweet shake well.

After questioning the nature move, after consultation with decrepit
theology, the breath of Jesus had passed the order for his soul and
had cooled.

X

Two months later, P. Gil rested sitting in his chair Poor gutta-percha.

Work of those days, especially the latter, he had surrendered. It was a purely material where
his spirit, troubled by heinous and horrible thoughts, was pleased, looking soothing to the inner turmoil
that tormented him.
 It looked like the beginning of
summer ashore, though the sheep, round and warm in their winter wool, betrayed the season of
the year as they went feeding along the slopes in the low afternoon sunshine. Presently the
wind began to blow and we struck out seaward to double the long sheltering headland of the
cape, and when I looked back again, the islands and the headland had run together and Dunnet
Landing and all its coasts were lost to sight.

