A bugle-horn was wound outside.  The men stood daunted--Christina in extreme terror for her
son, who lay gasping, breathless, but still clutching the stranger's hand, and with eyes of
fire glaring on the mutinous warriors.  Another bugle-blast!  Heinz was almost in the act of
grappling with the silent foe, and Koppel cried as he raised his halbert, "Now or never!" but
paused.

"Never, so please you," said the strange guest.  "What if your young lord could not forswear
himself that my name is Theurdank!  Are you foes to all the world save Theurdank?"

"No masking," said Heinz, sternly.  "Tell your true name as an honest man, and we will judge
whether you be friend or foe."

"My name is a mouthful, as your master knows," said the guest, slowly, looking with strangely
amused eyes on the confused lanzknechts, who were trying to devour their rage.  "I was baptized
Maximilianus; Archduke of Austria, by birth; by choice of the Germans, King of the Romans."

"The Kaisar!"

Christina dropped on her knee; the men-at-arms tumbled backwards; Ebbo pressed the hand he
held to his lips, and fainted away.  The bugle sounded for the third time.

CHAPTER XXII:  PEACE

Slowly and painfully did Ebbo recover from his swoon, feeling as if the means of revival were
rending him away from his brother.  He was so completely spent that he was satisfied with a
mere assurance that nothing was amiss, and presently dropped into a profound slumber, whence
he awoke to find it still broad daylight, and his mother sitting by the side of his bed, all
looking so much as it had done for the last six weeks, that his first inquiry was if all that
had happened had been but a strange dream.  His mother would scarcely answer till she had satisfied
herself that his eye was clear, his voice steady, his hand cool, and that, as she said, "That
Kaisar had done him no harm."

"Ah, then it was true!  Where is he?  Gone?" cried Ebbo, eagerly.

"No, in the hall below, busy with letters they have brought him.  Lie still, my boy; he has
done thee quite enough damage for one day."

"But, mother, what are you saying!  Something disloyal, was it not?"

"Well, Ebbo, I was very angry that he should have half killed you when he could so easily have
spoken one word.  Heaven forgive me if I did wrong, but I could not help it."

"Did HE forgive you, mother?" said Ebbo, anxiously.

"He--oh yes.  To do him justice he was greatly concerned; devised ways of restoring thee, and
now has promised not to come near thee again without my leave," said the mother, quite as persuaded
of her own rightful sway in her son's sick chamber as ever Kunigunde had been of her dominion
over the castle.

"And is he displeased with me?  Those cowardly vindictive rascals, to fall on him, and set
me at nought!  Before him, too!" exclaimed Ebbo, bitterly.

"Nay, Ebbo, he thought thy part most gallant.  I heard him say so, not only to me, but below
stairs--both wise and true.  Thou didst know him then?"

"From the first glance of his princely eye--the first of his keen smiles.  I had seen him disguised
before.  I thought you knew him too, mother; I never guessed that your mind was running on
Schlangenwald when we talked at cross purposes last night."

"Would that I had; but though I breathed no word openly, I encouraged Heinz's precautions.
My boy, I could not help it; my heart would tremble for my only one, and I saw he could not
be what he seemed."

"And what doth he here?  Who were the men who were advancing?"

"They were the followers he had left at St. Ruprecht's, and likewise Master Schleiermacher
and Sir Kasimir of Wildschloss."

"Ha!"

"What--he had not told thee?"

"No.  He knew that I knew him, was at no pains to disguise himself, yet evidently meant me
to treat him as a private knight.  But what brought Wildschloss here?"

"It seems," said Christina, "that, on the return from Carinthia, the Kaisar expressed his intention
of slipping away from his army in his own strange fashion, and himself inquiring into the matter
of the Ford.  So he took with him his own personal followers, the new Graf von Schlangenwald,
Herr Kasimir, and Master Schleiermacher.  The others he sent to Schlangenwald; he himself lodged
at St. Ruprecht's, appointing that Sir Kasimir should meet him there this morning.  From the
convent he started on a chamois hunt, and made his way hither; but, when the snow came on,
and he returned not, his followers became uneasy, and came in search of him."

"Ah!" said Ebbo, "he meant to intercede for Wildschloss--it might be he would have tried his
power.  No, for that he is too generous.  How looked Wildschloss, mother?"

"How could I tell how any one looked save thee, my poor wan boy? Thou art paler than ever!
I cannot have any king or kaisar of them all come to trouble thee."

"Nay, motherling, there is much more trouble and unrest to me in not knowing how my king will
treat us after such a requital!  Prithee let him know that I am at his service."

And, after having fed and refreshed her patient, the gentle potentate of his chamber consented
to intimate her consent to admit the invader.  But not till after delay enough to fret the
impatient nerves of illness did Maximilian appear, handing her in, and saying, in the cheery
voice that was one of his chief fascinations,

"Yea, truly, fair dame, I know thou wouldst sooner trust Schlangenwald himself than me alone
with thy charge.  How goes it, my true knight?"

"Well, right well, my liege," said Ebbo, "save for my shame and grief."

"Thou art the last to be ashamed for that," said the good-natured prince.  "Have I never seen
my faithful vassals more bent on their own feuds than on my word?--I who reign over a set of
kings, who brook no will but their own."

"And may we ask your pardon," said Ebbo, "not only for ourselves, but for the misguided men-at-arms?"

"What! the grewsome giant that was prepared with the axe, and the honest lad that wanted to
do his duty by his father?  I honour that lad, Freiherr; I would enrol him in my guard, but
that probably he is better off here than with Massimiliano pochi danari, as the Italians call
me.  But what I came hither to say was this," and he spoke gravely:  "thou art sincere in desiring
reconciliation with the house of Schlangenwald?"

"With all my heart," said Ebbo, "do I loathe the miserable debt of blood for blood!"

"And," said Maximilian, "Graf Dankwart is of like mind.  Bred from pagedom in his Prussian
commandery, he has never been exposed to the irritations that have fed the spirit of strife,
and he will be thankful to lay it aside.  The question next is how to solemnize this reconciliation,
ere your retainers on one side or the other do something to set you by the ears together again,
which, judging by this morning's work, is not improbable."

"Alas! no," said Ebbo, "while I am laid by."

"Had you both been in our camp, you should have sworn friendship in my chapel.  Now must Dankwart
come hither to thee, as I trow he had best do, while I am here to keep the peace.  See, friend
Ebbo, we will have him here to-morrow; thy chaplain shall deck the altar here, the Father Abbot
shall say mass, and ye shall swear peace and brotherhood before me.  And," he added, taking
Ebbo's hand, "I shall know how to trust thine oaths as of one who sets the fear of God above
that of his king."

This was truly the only chance of impressing on the wild vassals of the two houses an obligation
that perhaps might override their ancient hatred; and the Baron and his mother gladly submitted
to the arrangement.  Maximilian withdrew to give directions for summoning the persons required
and Christina was soon obliged to leave her son, while she provided for her influx of guests.

Ebbo was alone till nearly the end of the supper below stairs.  He had been dozing, when a
cautious tread came up the turret steps, and he started, and called out, "Who goes there? 
I am not asleep."

"It is your kinsman, Freiherr," said a well-known voice; "I come by your mother's leave."

"Welcome, Sir Cousin," said Ebbo, holding out his hand.  "You come to find everything changed."

"I have knelt in the chapel," said Wildschloss, gravely.

"And he loved you better than I!" said Ebbo.

"Your jealousy of me was a providential thing, for which all may be thankful," said Wildschloss
gravely; "yet it is no small thing to lose the hope of so many years!  However, young Baron,
I have grave matter for your consideration.  Know you the service on which I am to be sent?
The Kaisar deems that the Armenians or some of the Christian nations on the skirts of the Ottoman
empire might be made our allies, and attack the Turk in his rear.  I am chosen as his envoy,
and shall sail so soon as I can make my way to Venice.  I only knew of the appointment since
I came hither, he having been led thereto by letters brought him this day; and mayhap by the
downfall of my hopes.  He was peremptory, as his mood is, and seemed to think it no small favour,"
added Wildschloss, with some annoyance.  "And meantime, what of my poor child?  There she is
in the cloister at Ulm, but an inheritance is a very mill-stone round the neck of an orphan
maid.  That insolent fellow, Lassla von Trautbach, hath already demanded to espouse the poor
babe; he--a blood-stained, dicing, drunken rover, with whom I would not trust a dog that I
loved!  Yet my death would place her at the disposal of his father, who would give her at once
to him.  Nay, even his aunt, the abbess, will believe nothing against him, and hath even striven
with me to have her betrothed at once.  On the barest rumour of my death will they wed the
poor little thing, and then woe to her, and woe to my vassals!"

"The King," suggested Ebbo.  "Surely she might be made his ward."

"Young man," said Sir Kasimir, bending over him, and speaking in an undertone, "he may well
have won your heart.  As friend, when one is at his side, none can be so winning, or so sincere
as he; but with all his brilliant gifts, he says truly of himself that he is a mere reckless
huntsman.  To-day, while I am with him, he would give me half Austria, or fight single-handed
in my cause or Thekla's.  Next month, when I am out of sight, comes Trautbach, just when his
head is full of keeping the French out of Italy, or reforming the Church, or beating the Turk,
or parcelling the empire into circles, or, maybe, of a new touch-hole for a cannon--nay, of
a flower-garden, or of walking into a lion's den.  He just says, 'Yea, well,' to be rid of
the importunity, and all is over with my poor little maiden.  Hare- brained and bewildered
with schemes has he been as Romish King--how will it be with him as Kaisar?  It is but of his
wonted madness that he is here at all, when his Austrian states must be all astray for want
of him.  No, no; I would rather make a weathercock guardian to my daughter.  You yourself are
the only guard to whom I can safely intrust her."

"My sword as knight and kinsman--" began Ebbo.

"No, no; 'tis no matter of errant knight or distressed damsel.  That is King Max's own line!"
said Wildschloss, with a little of the irony that used to nettle Ebbo.  "There is only one
way in which you can save her, and that is as her husband."

Ebbo started, as well he might, but Sir Kasimir laid his hand on him with a gesture that bade
him listen ere he spoke.  "My first wish for my child," he said, "was to see her brought up
by that peerless lady below stairs.  The saints--in pity to one so like themselves--spared
her the distress our union would have brought her.  Now, it would be vain to place my little
Thekla in her care, for Trautbach would easily feign my death, and claim his niece, nor are
you of age to be made her guardian as head of our house.  But, if this marriage rite were solemnized,
then would her person and lands alike be yours, and I could leave her with an easy heart."

"But," said the confused, surprised Ebbo, "what can I do?  They say I shall not walk for many
weeks to come.  And, even if I could, I am so young--I have so blundered in my dealings with
my own mountaineers, and with this fatal bridge--how should I manage such estates as yours?
Some better--"

"Look you, Ebbo," said Wildschloss; "you have erred--you have been hasty; but tell me where
to find another youth, whose strongest purpose was as wise as your errors, or who cared for
others' good more than for his own violence and vainglory?  Brief as your time has been, one
knows when one is on your bounds by the aspect of your serfs, the soundness of their dwellings,
the prosperity of their crops and cattle above all, by their face and tone if one asks for
their lord."

"Ah! it was Friedel they loved.  They scarce knew me from Friedel."

"Such as you are, with all the blunders you have made and will make, you are the only youth
I know to whom I could intrust my child or my lands.  The old Wildschloss castle is a male
fief, and would return to you, but there are domains since granted that will cause intolerable
trouble and strife, unless you and my poor little heiress are united.  As for age, you are--?"

"Eighteen next Easter."

"Then there are scarce eleven years between you.  You will find the little one a blooming bride
when your first deeds in arms have been fought out."

"And, if my mother trains her up," said Ebbo, thoughtfully, "she will be all the better daughter
to her.  But, Sir Cousin, you know I too must be going.  So soon as I can brook the saddle,
I must seek out and ransom my father."

"That is like to be a far shorter and safer journey than mine.  The Genoese and Venetians understand
traffic with the infidels for their captives, and only by your own fault could you get into
danger.  Even at the worst, should mishap befall you, you could so order matters as to leave
your girl-widow in your mother's charge."

"Then," added Ebbo, "she would still have one left to love and cherish her.  Sir Kasimir, it
is well; though, if you knew me without my Friedel, you would repent of your bargain."

"Thanks from my heart," said Wildschloss, "but you need not be concerned.  You have never been
over-friendly with me even with Friedel at your side.  But to business, my son.  You will endure
that title from me now?  My time is short."

"What would you have me do?  Shall I send the little one a betrothal ring, and ride to Ulm
to wed and fetch her home in spring?"

"That may hardly serve.  These kinsmen would have seized on her and the castle long ere that
time.  The only safety is the making wedlock as fast as it can be made with a child of such
tender years.  Mine is the only power that can make the abbess give her up, and therefore will
I ride this moonlight night to Ulm, bring the little one back with me by the time the reconciliation
be concluded, and then shall ye be wed by the Abbot of St. Ruprecht's, with the Kaisar for
a witness, and thus will the knot be too strong for the Trautbachs to untie."

Ebbo looked disconcerted, and gasped, as if this were over-quick work.--"To-morrow!" he said.
"Knows my mother?"

"I go to speak with her at once.  The Kaisar's consent I have, as he says, 'If we have one
vassal who has common sense and honesty, let us make the most of him.'  Ah! my son, I shall
return to see you his counsellor and friend."

Those days had no delicacies as to the lady's side taking the initiative:  and, in effect,
the wealth and power of Wildschloss so much exceeded those of the elder branch that it would
have been presumptuous on Eberhard's part to have made the proposal.  It was more a treaty
than an affair of hearts, and Sir Kasimir had not even gone through the form of inquiring if
Ebbo were fancy-free.  It was true, indeed, that he was still a boy, with no passion for any
one but his mother; but had he even formed a dream of a ladye love, it would scarcely have
been deemed a rational objection.  The days of romance were no days of romance in marriage.

Yet Christina, wedded herself for pure love, felt this obstacle strongly.  The scheme was propounded
to her over the hall fire by no less a person than Maximilian himself, and he, whose perceptions
were extremely keen when he was not too much engrossed to use them, observed her reluctance
through all her timid deference, and probed her reasons so successfully that she owned at last
that, though it might sound like folly, she could scarce endure to see her son so bind himself
that the romance of his life could hardly be innocent.

"Nay, lady," was the answer, in a tone of deep feeling.  "Neither lands nor honours can weigh
down the up-springing of true love;" and he bowed his head between his hands.

Verily, all the Low Countries had not impeded the true-hearted affection of Maximilian and
Mary; and, though since her death his want of self-restraint had marred his personal character
and morals, and though he was now on the point of concluding a most loveless political marriage,
yet still Mary was--as he shows her as the Beatrice of both his strange autobiographical allegories--the
guiding star of his fitful life; and in heart his fidelity was so unbroken that, when after
a long pause he again looked up to Christina, he spoke as well understanding her feelings.

"I know what you would say, lady; your son hardly knows as yet how much is asked of him, and
the little maid, to whom he vows his heart, is over-young to secure it.  But, lady, I have
often observed that men, whose family affections are as deep and fervent as your son's are
for you and his brother, seldom have wandering passions, but that their love flows deep and
steady in the channels prepared for it. Let your young Freiherr regard this damsel as his own,
and you will see he will love her as such."

"I trust so, my liege."

"Moreover, if she turn out like the spiteful Trautbach folk," said Maximilian, rather wickedly,
"plenty of holes can be picked in a baby-wedding.  No fear of its over-firmness.  I never saw
one come to good; only he must keep firm hold on the lands."

This was not easy to answer, coming from a prince who had no small experience in premature
bridals coming to nothing, and Christina felt that the matter was taken out of her hands, and
that she had no more to do but to enjoy the warm-hearted Kaisar's praises of her son.

In fact, the general run of nobles were then so boorish and violent compared with the citizens,
that a nobleman who possessed intellect, loyalty, and conscience was so valuable to the sovereign
that Maximilian was rejoiced to do all that either could bind him to his service or increase
his power.  The true history of this expedition on the Emperor's part was this--that he had
consulted Kasimir upon the question of the Debateable Ford and the feud of Adlerstein and Schlangenwald,
asking further how his friend had sped in the wooing of the fair widow, to which he remembered
having given his consent at Ulm.

Wildschloss replied that, though backed up by her kindred at Ulm, he had made no progress in
consequence of the determined opposition of her two sons, and he had therefore resolved to
wait a while, and let her and the young Baron feel their inability to extricate themselves
from the difficulties that were sure to beset them, without his authority, influence, and experience--fully
believing that some predicament might arise that would bring the mother to terms, if not the sons.

This disaster did seem to have fallen out, and he had meant at once to offer himself to the
lady as her supporter and advocate, able to bring about all her son could desire; though he
owned that his hopes would have been higher if the survivor had been the gentle, friendly Friedmund,
rather than the hot and imperious Eberhard, who he knew must be brought very low ere his objections
would be withdrawn.

The touch of romance had quite fascinated Maximilian.  He would see the lady and her son. 
He would make all things easy by the personal influence that he so well knew how to exert,
backed by his imperial authority; and both should see cause to be thankful to purchase consent
to the bridge-building, and pardon for the fray, by the marriage between the widow and Sir Kasimir.

But the Last of the Knights was a gentleman, and the meek dignity of his hostess had hindered
him from pressing on her any distasteful subject until her son's explanation of the uncertainty
of her husband's death had precluded all mention of this intention. Besides, Maximilian was
himself greatly charmed by Ebbo's own qualities--partly perhaps as an intelligent auditor,
but also by his good sense, high spirit, and, above all, by the ready and delicate tact that
had both penetrated and respected the disguise.  Moreover, Maximilian, though a faulty, was
a devout man, and could appreciate the youth's unswerving truth, under circumstances that did,
in effect, imperil him more really than his guest.  In this mood, Maximilian felt disposed
to be rid to the very utmost of poor Sir Kasimir's unlucky attachment to a wedded lady; and
receiving letters suggestive of the Eastern mission, instantly decided that it would only be
doing as he would be done by instantly to order the disappointed suitor off to the utmost parts
of the earth, where he would much have liked to go himself, save for the unlucky clog of all
the realm of Germany.  That Sir Kasimir had any tie to home he had for the moment entirely
forgotten; and, had he remembered it, the knight was so eminently fitted to fulfil his purpose,
that it could hardly have been regarded.  But, when Wildschloss himself devised his little
heiress' s union with the head of the direct line, it was a most acceptable proposal to the
Emperor, who set himself to forward it at once, out of policy, and as compensation to all parties.

And so Christina's gentle remonstrance was passed by.  Yet, with all her sense of the venture,
it was thankworthy to look back on the trembling anxiety with which she had watched her boy's
childhood, and all his temptations and perils, and compare her fears with his present position:
his alliance courted, his wisdom honoured, the child of the proud, contemned outlaw received
as the favourite of the Emperor, and the valued ally of her own honoured burgher world.  Yet
he was still a mere lad.  How would it be for the future?

Would he be unspoiled?  Yes, even as she already viewed one of her twins as the star on high--nay,
when kneeling in the chapel, her dazzling tears made stars of the glint of the light reflected
in his bright helmet--might she not trust that the other would yet run his course to and fro,
as the spark in the stubble?

CHAPTER XXIII:  THE ALTAR OF PEACE

No one could bear to waken the young Baron till the sun had risen high enough to fall on his
face and unclose his eyes.

"Mother" (ever his first word), "you have let me sleep too long."

"Thou didst wake too long, I fear me."

"I hoped you knew it not.  Yes, my wound throbbed sore, and the wonders of the day whirled
round my brain like the wild huntsman's chase."

"And, cruel boy, thou didst not call to me."

"What, with such a yesterday, and such a morrow for you? while, chance what may, I can but
lie still.  I thought I must call, if I were still so wretched, when the last moonbeam faded;
but, behold, sleep came, and therewith my Friedel sat by me, and has sung songs of peace ever
since."

"And hath lulled thee to content, dear son?"

"Content as the echo of his voice and the fulfilment of his hope can make me," said Ebbo.

And so Christina made her son ready for the day's solemnities, arraying him in a fine holland
shirt with exquisite broidery of her own on the collar and sleeves, and carefully disposing
his long glossy, dark brown hair so as to fall on his shoulders as he lay propped up by cushions.
She would have thrown his crimson mantle round him, but he repelled it indignantly.  "Gay braveries
for me, while my Friedel is not yet in his resting-place?  Here--the black velvet cloak."

"Alas, Ebbo! it makes thee look more of a corpse than a bridegroom. Thou wilt scare thy poor
little spouse.  Ah! it was not thus I had fancied myself decking thee for thy wedding."

"Poor little one!" said Ebbo.  "If, as your uncle says, mourning is the seed of joy, this bridal
should prove a gladsome one!  But let her prove a loving child to you, and honour my Friedel's
memory, then shall I love her well.  Do not fear, motherling; with the roots of hatred and
jealousy taken out of the heart, even sorrow is such peace that it is almost joy."

It was over early for pain and sorrow to have taught that lesson, thought the mother, as with
tender tears she gave place to the priest, who was to begin the solemnities of the day by shriving
the young Baron.  It was Father Norbert, who had in this very chamber baptized the brothers,
while their grandmother was plotting the destruction of their godfather, even while he gave
Friedmund his name of peace,--Father Norbert, who had from the very first encouraged the drooping,
heart-stricken, solitary Christina not to be overcome of evil, but to overcome evil with good.

A temporary altar was erected between the windows, and hung with the silk and embroidery belonging
to that in the chapel:  a crucifix was placed on it, with the shrine of the stone of Nicaea,
one or two other relics brought on St. Ruprecht's cloister, and a beautiful mother-of-pearl
and gold pyx also from the abbey, containing the host.  These were arranged by the chaplain,
Father Norbert, and three of his brethren from the abbey.  And then the Father Abbot, a kindly,
dignified old man, who had long been on friendly terms with the young Baron, entered; and after
a few kind though serious words to him, assumed a gorgeous cope stiff with gold embroidery,
and, standing by the altar, awaited the arrival of the other assistants at the ceremony.

The slender, youthful-looking, pensive lady of the castle, in her wonted mourning dress, was
courteously handed to her son's bedside by the Emperor.  He was in his plain buff leathern
hunting garb, unornamented, save by the rich clasp of his sword-belt and his gold chain, and
his head was only covered by the long silken locks of fair hair that hung round his shoulders;
but, now that his large keen dark blue eyes were gravely restrained, and his eager face composed,
his countenance was so majestic, his bearing so lofty, that not all his crowns could have better
marked his dignity.

Behind him came a sunburnt, hardy man, wearing the white mantle and black fleur-de-lis-pointed
cross of the Teutonic Order.  A thrill passed through Ebbo's veins as he beheld the man who
to him represented the murderer of his brother and both his grandfathers, the cruel oppressor
of his father, and the perpetrator of many a more remote, but equally unforgotten, injury.
And in like manner Sir Dankwart beheld the actual slayer of his father, and the heir of a long
score of deadly retribution.  No wonder then that, while the Emperor spoke a few words of salutation
and inquiry, gracious though not familiar, the two foes scanned one another with a shiver of
mutual repulsing, and a sense that they would fain have fought it out as in the good old times.

However, Ebbo only beheld a somewhat dull, heavy, honest-looking visage of about thirty years
old, good-nature written in all its flat German features, and a sort of puzzled wonder in the
wide light eyes that stared fixedly at him, no doubt in amazement that the mighty huge-limbed
Wolfgang could have been actually slain by the delicately-framed youth, now more colourless
than ever in consequence of the morning's fast.  Schleiermacher was also present, and the chief
followers on either hand had come into the lower part of the room--Hatto, Heinz, and Koppel,
looking far from contented; some of the Emperor's suite; and a few attendants of Schlangenwald,
like himself connected with the Teutonic Order.

The Emperor spoke:  "We have brought you together, Herr Graff von Schlangenwald, and Herr Freiherr
von Adlerstein, because ye have given us reason to believe you willing to lay aside the remembrance
of the foul and deadly strifes of your forefathers, and to live as good Christians in friendship
and brotherhood."

"Sire, it is true," said Schlangenwald; and "It is true," said Ebbo.

"That is well," replied Maximilian.  "Nor can our reign better begin than by the closing of
a breach that has cost the land some of its bravest sons.  Dankwart von Schlangenwald, art
thou willing to pardon the heir of Adlerstein for having slain thy father in free and honourable
combat, as well as, doubtless, for other deeds of his ancestors, more than I know or can specify?"

"Yea, truly; I pardon him, my liege, as befits my vow."

"And thou, Eberhard von Adlerstein, dost thou put from thee vengeance for thy twin brother's
death, and all the other wrongs that thine house has suffered?"

"I put revenge from me for ever."

"Ye agree, further, then, instead of striving as to your rights to the piece of meadow called
the Debateable Strand, and to the wrecks of burthens there cast up by the stream, ye will unite
with the citizens of Ulm in building a bridge over the Braunwasser, where, your mutual portions
thereof being decided by the Swabian League, toll may be taken from all vehicles and beasts
passing there over?"

"We agree," said both knights.

"And I, also, on behalf of the two guilds of Ulm," added Moritz Schleiermacher.

"Likewise," continued the Emperor, "for avoidance of debate, and to consecrate the spot that
has caused so much contention, ye will jointly erect a church, where may be buried both the
relatives who fell in the late unhappy skirmish, and where ye will endow a perpetual mass for
their souls, and those of others of your two races."

"Thereto I willingly agree," said the Teutonic knight.  But to Ebbo it was a shock that the
pure, gentle Friedmund should thus be classed with his treacherous assassin; and he had almost
declared that it would be sacrilege, when he received from the Emperor a look of stern, surprised
command, which reminded him that concession must not be all on one side, and that he could
not do Friedel a greater wrong than to make him a cause of strife.  So, though they half choked
him, he contrived to utter the words, "I consent."

"And in token of amity I here tear up and burn all the feuds of Adlerstein," said Schlangenwald,
producing from his pouch a collection of hostile literature, beginning from a crumpled strip
of yellow parchment and ending with a coarse paper missive in the clerkly hand of burgher-bred
Hugh Sorel, and bearing the crooked signatures of the last two Eberhards of Adlerstein--all
with great seals of the eagle shield appended to them.  A similar collection-- which, with
one or two other family defiances, and the letters of investiture recently obtained at Ulm,
formed the whole archives of Adlerstein--had been prepared within Ebbo's reach; and each of
the two, taking up a dagger, made extensive gashes in these documents, and then--with no mercy
to the future antiquaries, who would have gloated over them--the whole were hurled into the
flames on the hearth, where the odour they emitted, if not grateful to the physical sense,
should have been highly agreeable to the moral.

"Then, holy Father Abbot," said Maximilian, "let us ratify this happy and Christian reconciliation
by the blessed sacrifice of peace, over which these two faithful knights shall unite in swearing
good-will and brotherhood."

Such solemn reconciliations were frequent, but, alas were too often a mockery.  Here, however,
both parties were men who felt the awe of the promise made before the Pardon-winner of all
mankind.  Ebbo, bred up by his mother in the true life of the Church, and comparatively apart
from practical superstitions, felt the import to the depths of his inmost soul, with a force
heightened by his bodily state of nervous impressibility; and his wan, wasted features and
dark shining eyes had a strange spiritual beam, "half passion and half awe," as he followed
the words of universal forgiveness and lofty praise that he had heard last in his anguished
trance, when his brother lay dying beside him, and leaving him behind.  He knew now that it
was for this.

His deep repressed ardour and excitement were no small contrast to the sober, matter-of-fact
demeanour of the Teutonic knight, who comported himself with the mechanical decorum of an ecclesiastic,
but quite as one who meant to keep his word.  Maximilian served the mass in his royal character
as sub-deacon.  He was fond of so doing, either from humility, or love of incongruity, or both.
No one, however, communicated except the clergy and the parties concerned-- Dankwart first,
as being monk as well as knight, then Eberhard and his mother; and then followed, interposed
into the rite, the oath of pardon, friendship, and brotherhood administered by the abbot, and
followed by the solemn kiss of peace.  There was now no recoil; Eberhard raised himself to
meet the lips of his foe, and his heart went with the embrace.  Nay, his inward ear dwelt on
Friedmund's song mingling with the concluding chants of praise.

The service ended, it was part of the pledge of amity that the reconciled enemies should break
their fast together, and a collation of white bread and wine was provided for the purpose.
The Emperor tried to promote free and friendly talk between the two adversaries, but not with
great success; for Dankwart, though honest and sincere, seemed extremely dull.  He appeared
to have few ideas beyond his Prussian commandery and its routine discipline, and to be lost
in a castle where all was at his sole will and disposal, and he caught eagerly at all proposals
made to him as if they were new lights.  As, for instance, that some impartial arbitrator should
be demanded from the Swabian League to define the boundary; and that next Rogation- tide the
two knights should ride or climb it in company, while meantime the serfs should be strictly
charged not to trespass, and any transgressor should be immediately escorted to his own lord.

"But," quoth Sir Dankwart, in a most serious tone, "I am told that a she-bear wons in a den
on yonder crag, between the pass you call the Gemsbock's and the Schlangenwald valley.  They
told me the right in it had never been decided, and I have not been up myself.  To say truth,
I have lived so long in the sand plains as to have lost my mountain legs, and I hesitated to
see if a hunter could mount thither for fear of fresh offence; but, if she bide there till
Rogation-tide, it will be ill for the lambs."

"Is that all?" cried Maximilian.  "Then will I, a neutral, kill your bear for you, gentlemen,
so that neither need transgress this new crag of debate.  I'll go down and look at your bear
spears, friend Ebbo, and be ready so soon as Kasimir has done with his bridal."

"That crag!" cried Ebbo.  "Little good will it do either of us. Sire, it is a mere wall of
sloping rock, slippery as ice, and with only a stone or matting of ivy here and there to serve
as foothold."

"Where bear can go, man can go," replied the Kaisar.

"Oh, yes!  We have been there, craving your pardon, Herr Graf," said Ebbo, "after a dead chamois
that rolled into a cleft, but it is the worst crag on all the hill, and the frost will make
it slippery. Sire, if you do venture it, I conjure you to take Koppel, and climb by the rocks
from the left, not the right, which looks easiest.  The yellow rock, with a face like a man's,
is the safer; but ach, it is fearful for one who knows not the rocks."

"If I know not the rocks, all true German rocks know me," smiled Maximilian, to whom the danger
seemed to be such a stimulus that he began to propose the bear-hunt immediately, as an interlude
while waiting for the bride.

However, at that moment, half-a-dozen horsemen were seen coming up from the ford, by the nearer
path, and a forerunner arrived with the tidings that the Baron of Adlerstein Wildschloss was
close behind with the little Baroness Thekla.

Half the moonlight night had Sir Kasimir and his escort ridden; and, after a brief sleep at
the nearest inn outside Ulm, he had entered in early morning, demanded admittance at the convent,
made short work with the Abbess Ludmilla's arguments, claimed his daughter, and placing her
on a cushion before him on his saddle, had borne her away, telling her of freedom, of the kind
lady, and the young knight who had dazzled her childish fancy.

Christina went down to receive her.  There was no time to lose, for the huntsman Kaisar was
bent on the slaughter of his bear before dark, and, if he were to be witness of the wedding,
it must be immediate.  He was in a state of much impatience, which he beguiled by teasing his
friend Wildschloss by reminding him how often he himself had been betrothed, and had managed
to slip his neck out of the noose.  "And, if my Margot be not soon back on my hands, I shall
give the French credit," he said, tossing his bear-spear in the air, and catching it again.
"Why, this bride is as long of busking her as if she were a beauty of seventeen!  I must be
off to my Lady Bearess."

Thus nothing could be done to prepare the little maiden but to divest her of her mufflings,
and comb out her flaxen hair, crowning it with a wreath which Christina had already woven from
the myrtle of her own girlhood, scarcely waiting to answer the bewildered queries and entreaties
save by caresses and admonitions to her to be very good.

Poor little thing!  She was tired, frightened, and confused; and, when she had been brought
upstairs, she answered the half smiling, half shy greeting of her bridegroom with a shudder
of alarm, and the exclamation, "Where is the beautiful young knight?  That's a lady going to
take the veil lying under the pall."

"You look rather like a little nun yourself," said Ebbo, for she wore a little conventual dress,
"but we must take each other for such as we are;" and, as she hid her face and clung to his
mother, he added in a more cheerful, coaxing tone, "You once said you would be my wife."

"Ah, but then there were two of you, and you were all shining bright."

Before she could be answered, the impatient Emperor returned, and brought with him the abbot,
who proceeded to find the place in his book, and to ask the bridegroom for the rings.  Ebbo
looked at Sir Kasimir, who owned that he should have brought them from Ulm, but that he had
forgotten.

"Jewels are not plenty with us," said Ebbo, with a glow of amusement and confusion dawning
on his cheek, such as reassured the little maid that she beheld one of the two beautiful young
knights.  "Must we borrow?"

Christina looked at the ring she had first seen lying on her own Eberhard's palm, and felt
as if to let it be used would sever the renewed hope she scarcely yet durst entertain; and
at the same moment Maximilian glanced at his own fingers, and muttered, "None but this! Unlucky!"
For it was the very diamond which Mary of Burgundy had sent to assure him of her faith, and
summon him to her aid after her father's death.  Sir Kasimir had not retained the pledge of
his own ill-omened wedlock; but, in the midst of the dilemma, the Emperor, producing his dagger,
began to detach some of the massive gold links of the chain that supported his hunting-horn.
"There," said he, "the little elf of a bride can get her finger into this lesser one and you--verily
this largest will fit, and the goldsmith can beat it out when needed.  So on with you in St.
Hubert's name, Father Abbot!"

Slender-boned and thin as was Ebbo's hand, it was a very tight fit, but the purpose was served.
The service commenced; and fortunately, thanks to Thekla's conventual education, she was awed
into silence and decorum by the sound of Latin and the sight of an abbot.  It was a strange
marriage, if only in the contrast between the pale, expressive face and sad, dark eyes of the
prostrate youth, and the frightened, bewildered little girl, standing upon a stool to reach
up to him, with her blue eyes stretched with wonder, and her cheeks flushed and pouting with
unshed tears, her rosy plump hand enclosed in the long white wasted one that was thus for ever
united to it by the broken fragments of Kaisar Max's chain.

The rite over, two attestations of the marriage of Eberhard, Freiherr von Adlerstein, and Thekla,
Freiherrinn von Adlerstein Wildschloss and Felsenbach, were drawn up and signed by the abbot,
the Emperor, Count Dankwart, and the father and mother of the two contracting parties; one
to be committed to the care of the abbot, the other to be preserved by the house of Adlerstein.

Then the Emperor, as the concluding grace of the ceremonial, bent to kiss the bride; but, tired,
terrified, and cross, Thekla, as if quite relieved to have some object for her resentment,
returned his attempt with a vehement buffet, struck with all the force of her small arm, crying
out, "Go away with you!  I know I've never married YOU!"

"The better for my eyes!" said the good-natured Emperor, laughing heartily.  "My Lady Bearess
is like to prove the more courteous bride!  Fare thee well, Sir Bridegroom," he added, stooping
over Ebbo, and kissing his brow; "Heaven give thee joy of this day's work, and of thy faithful
little fury.  I'll send her the bearskin as her meetest wedding-gift."

And the next that was heard from the Kaisar was the arrival of a parcel of Italian books for
the Freiherr Eberhard, and for the little Freiherrinn a large bundle, which proved to contain
a softly-dressed bearskin, with the head on, the eyes being made of rubies, a gold muzzle and
chain on the nose, and the claws tipped with gold.  The Emperor had made a point that it should
be conveyed to the castle, snow or no snow, for a yule gift.

CHAPTER XXIV:  OLD IRON AND NEW STEEL

The clear sunshine of early summer was becoming low on the hillsides. Sparkling and dimpling,
the clear amber-coloured stream of the Braunwasser rippled along its stony bed, winding in
and out among the rocks so humbly that it seemed to be mocked by the wide span of the arch
that crossed it in all the might of massive bulwarks, and dignified masonry of huge stones.

Some way above, a clearing of the wood below the mountain showed huts, and labourers apparently
constructing a mill so as to take advantage of the leap of the water from the height above;
and, on the left bank, an enclosure was traced out, within which were rising the walls of a
small church, while the noise of the mallet and chisel echoed back from the mountain side,
and masons, white with stone- dust, swarmed around.

Across the bridge came a pilgrim, marked out as such by hat, wallet, and long staff, on which
he leant heavily, stumbling along as if both halting and footsore, and bending as one bowed
down by past toil and present fatigue.  Pausing in the centre, he gazed round with a strange
disconcerted air--at the castle on the terraced hillside, looking down with bright eyes of
glass glittering in the sunshine, and lighting up even that grim old pile; at the banner hanging
so lazily that the tinctures and bearings were hidden in the folds; then at the crags, rosy
purple in evening glow, rising in broad step above step up to the Red Eyrie, bathed in sunset
majesty of dark crimson; and above it the sweep of the descending eagle, discernible for a
moment in the pearly light of the sky.  The pilgrim's eye lighted up as he watched it; but
then, looking down at bridge, and church, and trodden wheel-tracked path, he frowned with perplexity,
and each painful step grew heavier and more uncertain.

Near the opposite side of the enclosure there waited a tall, rugged- looking, elderly man with
two horses--one an aged mare, mane, tail, and all of the snowiest silvery white; the other
a little shaggy dark mountain pony, with a pad-saddle.  And close to the bank of the stream
might be seen its owner, a little girl of some seven years, whose tight round lace cap had
slipped back, as well as her blue silk hood, and exposed a profusion of loose flaxen hair,
and a plump, innocent face, intent upon some private little bit of building of her own with
some pebbles from the brook, and some mortar filched from the operations above, to the great
detriment of her soft pinky fingers.

The pilgrim looked at her unperceived, and for a moment was about to address her; but then,
with a strange air of repulsion, dragged himself on to the porch of the rising church, where,
seated on a block of stone, he could look into the interior.  All was unfinished, but the portion
which had made the most progress was a chantry-chapel opposite to the porch, and containing
what were evidently designed to be two monuments.  One was merely blocked out, but it showed
the outline of a warrior, bearing a shield on which a coiled serpent was rudely sketched in
red chalk.  The other, in a much more forward state, was actually under the hands of the sculptor,
and represented a slender youth, almost a boy, though in the full armour of a knight, his hands
clasped on his breast over a lute, an eagle on his shield, an eagle-crest on his helmet, and,
under the arcade supporting the altar-tomb, shields alternately of eagles and doves.

But the strangest thing was that this young knight seemed to be sitting for his own effigy.
The very same face, under the very same helmet, only with the varied, warm hues of life, instead
of in cold white marble, was to be seen on the shoulders of a young man in a gray cloth dress,
with a black scarf passing from shoulder to waist, crossed by a sword-belt.  The hair was hidden
by the helmet, whose raised visor showed keen, finely-cut features, and a pair of dark brown
eyes, of somewhat grave and sad expression.

"Have a care, Lucas," he presently said; "I fear me you are chiselling away too much.  It must
be a softer, more rounded face than mine has become; and, above all, let it not catch any saddened
look.  Keep that air of solemn waiting in glad hope, as though he saw the dawn through his
closed eyelids, and were about to take up his song again!"

"Verily, Herr Freiherr, now the likeness is so far forward, the actual sight of you may lead
me to mar it rather than mend."

"So is it well that this should be the last sitting.  I am to set forth for Genoa in another
week.  If I cannot get letters from the Kaisar, I shall go in search of him, that he may see
that my lameness is no more an impediment."

The pilgrim passed his hand over his face, as though to dissipate a bewildering dream; and
just then the little girl, all flushed and dabbled, flew rushing up from the stream, but came
to a sudden standstill at sight of the stranger, who at length addressed her. "Little lady,"
he said, "is this the Debateable Ford?"

"No; now it is the Friendly Bridge," said the child.

The pilgrim started, as with a pang of recollection.  "And what is yonder castle?" he further
asked.

"Schloss Adlerstein," she said, proudly.

"And you are the little lady of Adlerstein Wildschloss?"

"Yes," again she answered; and then, gathering courage--"You are a holy pilgrim!  Come up to
the castle for supper and rest."  And then, springing past him, she flew up to the knight,
crying, "Herr Freiherr, here is a holy pilgrim, weary and hungry.  Let us take him home to
the mother."

"Did he take thee for a wild elf?" said the young man, with an elder- brotherly endeavour to
right the little cap that had slidden under the chin, and to push back the unmanageable wealth
of hair under it, ere he rose; and he came forward and spoke with kind courtesy, as he observed
the wanderer's worn air and feeble step.  "Dost need a night's lodging, holy palmer?  My mother
will make thee welcome, if thou canst climb as high as the castle yonder."

The pilgrim made an obeisance, but, instead of answering, demanded hastily, "See I yonder the
bearing of Schlangenwald?"

"Even so.  Schloss Schlangenwald is about a league further on, and thou wilt find a kind reception
there, if thither thou art bent."

"Is that Graff Wolfgang's tomb?" still eagerly pursued the pilgrim; and receiving a sign in
the affirmative, "What was his end?"

"He fell in a skirmish."

"By whose hand?"

"By mine."

"Ha!" and the pilgrim surveyed him with undisguised astonishment; then, without another word,
took up his staff and limped out of the building, but not on the road to Schlangenwald.  It
was nearly a quarter of an hour afterwards that he was overtaken by the young knight and the
little lady on their horses, just where the new road to the castle parted from the old way
by the Eagle's Ladder.  The knight reined up as he saw the poor man's slow, painful steps,
and said, "So thou art not bound for Schlangenwald?"

"I would to the village, so please you--to the shrine of the Blessed Friedmund."

"Nay, at this rate thou wilt not be there till midnight," said the young knight, springing
off his horse; "thou canst never brook our sharp stones!  See, Thekla, do thou ride on with
Heinz to tell the mother I am bringing her a holy pilgrim to tend.  And thou, good man, mount
my old gray.  Fear not; she is steady and sure-footed, and hath of late been used to a lame
rider.  Ah! that is well.  Thou hast been in the saddle before."

To go afoot for the sake of giving a lift to a holy wayfarer was one of the most esteemed acts
of piety of the Middle Age, so that no one durst object to it, and the palmer did no more than
utter a suppressed murmur of acknowledgment as he seated himself on horseback, the young knight
walking by his rein.  "But what is this?" he exclaimed, almost with dismay.  "A road to the
castle up here!"

"Yes, we find it a great convenience.  Thou art surely from these parts?" added the knight.

"I was a man-at-arms in the service of the Baron," was the answer, in an odd, muffled tone.

"What!--of my grandfather!" was the exclamation.

"No!" gruffly.  "Of old Freiherr Eberhard.  Not of any of the Wildschloss crew."

"But I am not a Wildschloss!  I am grandson to Freiherr Eberhard! Oh, wast thou with him and
my father when they were set upon in the hostel?" he cried, looking eagerly up to the pilgrim;
but the man kept his broad-leaved hat slouched over his face, and only muttered, "The son of
Christina!" the last word so low that Ebbo was not sure that he caught it, and the next moment
the old warrior exclaimed exultingly, "And you have had vengeance on them!  When--how--where?"

"Last harvest-tide--at the Debateable Strand," said Ebbo, never able to speak of the encounter
without a weight at his heart, but drawn on by the earnestness of the old foe of Schlangenwald.
"It was a meeting in full career--lances broken, sword-stroke on either hand. I was sore wounded,
but my sword went through his collar-bone."

"Well struck! good stroke!" cried the pilgrim, in rapture.  "And with that sword?"

"With this sword.  Didst know it?" said Ebbo, drawing the weapon, and giving it to the old
man, who held it for a few moments, weighed it affectionately, and with a long low sigh restored
it, saying, "It is well.  You and that blade have paid off the score.  I should be content.
Let me dismount.  I know my way to the hermitage."

"Nay, what is this?" said Ebbo; "thou must have rest and food.  The hermitage is empty, scarce
habitable.  My mother will not be balked of the care of thy bleeding feet."

"But let me go, ere I bring evil on you all.  I can pray up there, and save my soul, but I
cannot see it all."

"See what?" said Ebbo, again trying to see his guest's face.  "There may be changes, but an
old faithful follower of my father's must ever be welcome."

"Not when his wife has taken a new lord," growled the stranger, bitterly, "and he a Wildschloss!
Young man, I could have pardoned aught else!"

"I know not who you may be who talk of pardoning my lady-mother," said Ebbo, "but new lord
she has neither taken nor will take.  She has refused every offer; and, now that Schlangenwald
with his last breath confessed that he slew not my father, but sold him to the Turks, I have
been only awaiting recovery from my wound to go in search of him."

"Who then is yonder child, who told me she was Wildschloss?"

"That child," said Ebbo, with half a smile and half a blush, "is my wife, the daughter of Wildschloss,
who prayed me to espouse her thus early, that so my mother might bring her up."

By this time they had reached the castle court, now a well-kept, lordly-looking enclosure,
where the pilgrim looked about him as one bewildered.  He was so infirm that Ebbo carefully
helped him up the stone stairs to the hall, where he already saw his mother prepared for the
hospitable reception of the palmer.  Leaving him at the entrance, Ebbo crossed the hall to
say to her in a low voice, "This pilgrim is one of the old lanzknechts of my grandfather's
time.  I wonder whether you or Heinz will know him.  One of the old sort-- supremely discontented
at change."

"And thou hast walked up, and wearied thyself!" exclaimed Christina, grieved to see her son's
halting step.

"A rest will soon cure that," said Ebbo, seating himself as he spoke on a settle near the hall
fire; but the next moment a strange wild low shriek from his mother made him start up and spring
to her side. She stood with hands clasped, and wondering eyes.  The pilgrim--his hat on the
ground, his white head and rugged face displayed--was gazing as though devouring her with his
eyes, murmuring, "Unchanged! unchanged!"

"What is this!" thundered the young Baron.  "What are you doing to the lady?"

"Hush! hush, Ebbo!" exclaimed Christina.  "It is thy father!  On thy knees!  Thy father is
come!  It is our son, my own lord.  Oh, embrace him!  Kneel to him, Ebbo!" she wildly cried.

"Hold, mother," said Ebbo, keeping his arm round her, though she struggled against him, for
he felt some doubts as he looked back at his walk with the stranger, and remembered Heinz's
want of recognition.  "Is it certain that this is indeed my father?"

"Oh, Ebbo," was the cry of poor Christina, almost beside herself, "how could I not be sure?
I know him!  I feel it!  Oh, my lord, bear with him.  It is his wont to be so loving!  Ebbo,
cannot you see it is himself?"

"The young fellow is right," said the stranger, slowly.  "I will answer all he may demand."

"Forgive me," said Ebbo, abashed, "forgive me;" and, as his mother broke from him, he fell
upon his knee; but he only heard his father's cry, "Ah!  Stine, Stine, thou alone art the same,"
and, looking up, saw her, with her face hidden in the white beard, quivering with a rapture
such as he had never seen in her before.  It seemed long to him ere she looked up again in
her husband's face to sob on:  "My son!  Oh! my beautiful twins!  Our son!  Oh, see him, dear
lord!" And the pilgrim turned to hear Ebbo's "Pardon, honoured father, and your blessing."

Almost bashfully the pilgrim laid his hand on the dark head, and murmured something; then said,
"Up, then!  The slayer of Schlangenwald kneeling!  Ah!  Stine, I knew thy little head was wondrous
wise, but I little thought thou wouldst breed him up to avenge us on old Wolfgang!  So slender
a lad too!  Ha! Schneiderlein, old rogue, I knew thee," holding out his hand.  "So thou didst
get home safe?"

"Ay, my lord; though, if I left you alive, never more will I call a man dead," said Heinz.

"Worse luck for me--till now," said Sir Eberhard, whose tones, rather than his looks, carried
perfect conviction of his identity.  It was the old homely accent, and gruff good-humoured
voice, but with something subdued and broken in the tone.  His features had grown like his
father's, but he looked much older than ever the hale old mountaineer had done, or than his
real age; so worn and lined was his face, his skin tanned, his eyelids and temples puckered
by burning sun, his hair and beard white as the inane of his old mare, the proud Adlerstein
port entirely gone.  He stooped even more without his staff than with it; and, when he yielded
himself with a sigh of repose to his wife's tendance, she found that he had not merely the
ordinary hurts of travelling, but that there were old festering scars on his ankles.  "The
gyves," he said, as she looked up at him, with startled, pitying eyes.  "Little deemed I that
they would ever come under thy tender hands."  As he almost timidly smoothed the braid of dark
hair on her brow--"So they never burnt thee for a witch after all, little one?  I thought my
mother would never keep her hands off thee, and used to fancy I heard the crackling of the flame."

"She spared me for my children's sake," said Christina; "and truly Heaven has been very good
to us, but never so much as now.  My dear lord, will it weary thee too much to come to the
castle chapel and give thanks?" she said, timidly.

"With all my heart," he answered, earnestly.  "I would go even on my knees.  We were not without
masses even in Tunis; but, when Italian and Spaniard would be ransomed, and there was no mind
of the German, I little thought I should ever sing Brother Lambert's psalm about turning our
captivity as rivers in the south."

Ebbo was hovering round, supplying all that was needed for his father's comfort; but his parents
were so completely absorbed in one another that he was scarcely noticed, and, what perhaps
pained him more, there was no word about Friedel.  He felt this almost an injustice to the
brother who had been foremost in embracing the idea of the unknown father, and scarcely understood
how his parents shrank from any sorrowful thought that might break in on their new-found joy,
nor that he himself was so strange and new a being in his father's eyes, that to imagine him
doubled was hardly possible to the tardy, dulled capacity, which as yet seemed unable to feel
anything but that here was home, and Christina.

When the chapel bell rang, and the pair rose to offer their thanksgiving, Ebbo dutifully offered
his support, but was absolutely unseen, so fondly was Sir Eberhard leaning on his wife; and
her bright exulting smile and shake of the head gave an absolute pang to the son who had hitherto
been all in all to her.

He followed, and, as they passed Friedmund's coffin, he thought his mother pointed to it, but
even of this he was uncertain.  The pair knelt side by side with hands locked together, while
notes of praise rose from all voices; and meantime Ebbo, close to that coffin, strove to share
the joy, and to lift up a heart that WOULD sink in the midst of self-reproach for undutifulness,
and would dislike the thought of the rude untaught man, holding aloof from him, likely to view
him with distrust and jealousy, and to undo all he had achieved, and further absorbing the
mother, the mother who was to him all the world, and for whose sake he had given his best years
to the child- wife, as yet nothing to him.

It was reversing the natural order of things that, after reigning from infancy, he should have
to give up at eighteen to one of the last generation; and some such thought rankled in his
mind when the whole household trooped joyfully out of the chapel to prepare a banquet for their
old new lord, and their young old lord was left alone.

Alone with the coffin where the armour lay upon the white cross, Ebbo threw himself on his
knees, and laid his head upon it, murmuring, "Ah, Friedel!  Friedel!  Would that we had changed
places!  Thou wouldst brook it better.  At least thou didst never know what it is to be lonely."

"Herr Baron!" said a little voice.

His first movement was impatient.  Thekla was apt to pursue him wherever he did not want her;
but here he had least expected her, for she had a great fear of that coffin, and could hardly
be brought to the chapel at prayer times, when she generally occupied herself with fancies
that the empty helmet glared at her.  But now Ebbo saw her standing as near as she durst, with
a sweet wistfulness in her eyes, such as he had never seen there before.

"What is it, Thekla?" he said.  "Art sent to call me?"

"No; only I saw that you stayed here all alone," she said, clasping her hands.

"Must I not be alone, child?" he said, bitterly.  "Here lies my brother.  My mother has her
husband again!"

"But you have me!" cried Thekla; and, as he looked up between amusement and melancholy, he
met such a loving eager little face, that he could not help holding out his arms, and letting
her cling to him.  "Indeed," she said, "I'll never be afraid of the helmet again, if only you
will not lay down your head there, and say you are alone."

"Never, Thekla! while you are my little wife," said he; and, child as she was, there was strange
solace to his heart in the eyes that, once vacant and wondering, had now gained a look of love
and intelligence.

"What are you going to do?" she said, shuddering a little, as he rose and laid his hand on
Friedel's sword.

"To make thee gird on thine own knight's sword," said Ebbo, unbuckling that which he had so
long worn.  "Friedel," he added, "thou wouldst give me thine.  Let me take up thy temper with
it, thine open-hearted love and humility."

He guided Thekla's happy little fingers to the fastening of the belt, and then, laying his
hand on hers, said gravely, "Thekla, never speak of what I said just now--not even to the mother.
Remember, it is thy husband's first secret."

And feeling no longer solitary when his hand was in the clasp of hers, he returned to the hall,
where his father was installed in the baronial chair, in which Ebbo had been at home from babyhood.
His mother's exclamation showed that her son had been wanting to her; and she looked fuller
than ever of bliss when Ebbo gravely stood before his father, and presented him with the good
old sword that he had sent to his unborn son.

"You are like to use it more than I,--nay, you have used it to some purpose," said he.  "Yet
must I keep mine old comrade at least a little while.  Wife, son, sword, should make one feel
the same man again, but it is all too wonderful!"

All that evening, and long after, his hand from time to time sought the hilt of his sword,
as if that touch above all proved to him that he was again a free noble in his own castle.

The story he told was thus.  The swoon in which Heinz had left him had probably saved his life
by checking the gush of blood, and he had known no more till he found himself in a rough cart
among the corpses.  At Schlangenwald's castle he had been found still breathing, and had been
flung into a dungeon, where he lay unattended, for how long he never knew, since all the early
part of the time was lost in the clouds of fever.  On coarse fare and scanty drink, in that
dark vault, he had struggled by sheer obstinacy of vitality into recovery.  In the very height
of midsummer alone did the sun peep through the grating of his cell, and he had newly hailed
this cheerful visitor when he was roughly summoned, placed on horseback with eyes and hands
bound, and only allowed sight again to find himself among a herd of his fellow Germans in the
Turkish camp. They were the prisoners of the terrible Turkish raid of 1475, when Georg von
Schenk and fourteen other noblemen of Austria and Styria were all taken in one unhappy fight,
and dragged away into captivity, with hundreds of lower rank.

To Sir Eberhard the change had been greatly for the better.  The Turk had treated him much
better than the Christian; and walking in the open air, chained to a German comrade, was far
pleasanter than pining in his lonely dungeon.  At Adrianople, an offer had been made to each
of the captives, if they would become Moslems, of entering the Ottoman service as Spahis; but
with one voice they had refused, and had then been draughted into different divisions.  The
fifteen nobles, who had been offered for ransom, were taken to Constantinople, to await its
arrival, and they had promised Sir Eberhard to publish his fate on their return to their homes;
and, though he knew the family resources too well to have many hopes, he was rather hurt to
find that their promise had been unfulfilled.

"Alas! they had no opportunity," said Ebbo.  "Gulden were scarce, or were all in Kaisar Friedrich's
great chest; the ransoms could not be raised, and all died in captivity.  I heard about it
when I was at Wurms last month."

"The boy at Wurms?" almost gasped Sir Eberhard in amaze.

"I had to be there about matters concerning the Wildschloss lands and the bridge," said Ebbo;
"and both Dankwart von Schlangenwald and I made special inquiries about that company in case
you should have shared their fate.  I hoped to have set forth at that time, but the Kaisar
said I was still too lame, and refused me license, or letters to the Sultan."

"You would not have found me," said his father, narrating how he with a large troop of captives
had been driven down to the coast; where they were transferred to a Moorish slave-dealer, who
shipped them off for Tunis.  Here, after their first taste of the miseries of a sea life, the
alternative of Islam or slavery was again put before them. "And, by the holy stone of Nicaea,"
said Sir Eberhard, "I thought by that time that the infidels had the advantage of us in good-will
and friendliness; but, when they told me women had no souls at all, no more than a horse or
dog, I knew it was but an empty dream of a religion; for did I not know that my little Ermentrude,
and thou, Stine, had finer, clearer, wiser souls than ever a man I had known? 'Nay, nay,' quoth
I, 'I'll cast in my lot where I may meet my wife hereafter, should I never see her here.'"
He had then been allotted to a corsair, and had thenceforth been chained to the bench of rowers,
between the two decks, where, in stifling heat and stench, in storm or calm, healthy or diseased,
the wretched oarsmen were compelled to play the part of machinery in propelling the vessel,
in order to capture Christian ships--making exertions to which only the perpetual lash of the
galley-master could have urged their exhausted frames; often not desisting for twenty or thirty
hours, and rowing still while sustenance was put into their mouths by their drivers. Many a
man drew has last breath with his last stroke, and was at the first leisure moment hurled into
the waves.  It was the description that had so deeply moved Friedel long ago, and Christina
wept over it, as she looked at the bowed form once so proud and free, and thought of the unhealed
scars.  But there, her husband added, he had been chained next to a holy friar of German blood,
like himself a captive of the great Styrian raid; and, while some blasphemed in their misery,
or wildly chid their patron saints, this good man strove to show that all was to work out good;
he had a pious saying for all that befell, and adored the will of God in thus purifying him;
"And, if it were thus with a saint like him, I thought, what must it be with a rough freebooting
godless sinner such as I had been?  See"--and he took out a rosary of strung bladders of seaweed;
"that is what he left me when he died, and what I meant to have been telling for ever up in
the hermitage."

"He died, then?"

"Ay--he died on the shore of Corsica, while most of the dogs were off harrying a village inland,
and we had a sort of respite, or I trow he would have rowed till his last gasp.  How he prayed
for the poor wretches they were gone to attack!--ay, and for all of us--for me also--There's
enough of it.  Such talk skills not now."

It was plain that Sir Eberhard had learnt more Christianity in the hold of his Moorish pirate
ship than ever in the Holy Roman Empire, and a weight was lifted off his son's mind by finding
that he had vowed never to return to a life of violence, even though fancying a life of penance
in a hermitage the only alternative.

Ebbo asked if the Genoese merchant, Ser Gian Battista dei Battiste, had indeed been one of
his fellow-captives.

"Ha!--what?" and on the repetition, "Truly I knew him, Merchant Gian as we used to call him;
but you twang off his name as they speak it in his own stately city."

Christina smiled.  "Ebbo learnt the Italian tongue this winter from our chaplain, who had studied
at Bologna.  He was told it would aid in his quest of you."

"Tell me not!" said the traveller, holding up his hands in deprecation; "the Junker is worse
than a priest!  And yet he killed old Wolfgang!  But what of Gian?  Hold,--did not he, when
I was with him at Genoa, tell me a story of being put into a dungeon in a mountain fortress
in Germany, and released by a pair of young lads with eyes beaming in the sunrise, who vanished
just as they brought him to a cloister?  Nay, he deemed it a miracle of the saints, and hung
up a votive picture thereof at the shrine of the holy Cosmo and Damian."

"He was not so far wrong in deeming ONE of the lads near of kin to the holy ones," said Christina,
softly.

And Ebbo briefly narrated the adventure, when it evidently appeared that his having led at
least one foray gave his father for the first time a fellow-feeling for him, and a sense that
he was one of the true old stock; but, when he heard of the release, he growled, "So! How would
a lad have fared who so acted in my time?  My poor old mother!  She must have been changed
indeed not to have scourged him till he had no strength to cry out."

"He was my prisoner!" said Ebbo, in his old defiant tone; "I had the right."

"Ah, well! the Junker has always been master here, and I never!" said the elder knight, looking
round rather piteously; and Ebbo, with a sudden movement, exclaimed, "Nay, sir, you are the
only lord and master, and I stand ready to be the first to obey you."

"You!  A fine young book-learned scholar, already knighted, and with all these Wildschloss
lands too!" said Sir Eberhard, gazing with a strange puzzled look at the delicate but spirited
features of this strange perplexing son.  "Reach hither your hand, boy."

And as he compared the slender, shapely hand of such finely-textured skin with the breadth
of his own horny giant's paw, he tossed it from him, shaking his head with a gesture as if
he had no commands for such feminine-looking fingers to execute, and mortifying Ebbo not a
little.  "Ah!" said Christina, apologetically, "it always grieved your mother that the boys
would resemble me and mine.  But, when daylight comes, Ebbo will show you that he has not lost
the old German strength."

"No doubt--no doubt," said Sir Eberhard, hastily, "since he has slain Schlangenwald; and, if
the former state of things be at an end, the less he takes after the ancient stock the better.
But I am an old man now, Stine, though thou look'st fair and fresh as ever, and I do not know
what to make of these things.  White napery on the table; glass drinking things;--nay, were
it not for thee and the Schneiderlein, I should not know I was at home."

He was led back to his narration, and it appeared that, after some years spent at the oar,
certain bleedings from the lungs, the remains of his wound, had become so much more severe
as to render him useless for naval purposes; and, as he escaped actually dying during a voyage,
he was allowed to lie by on coming into port till he had in some degree recovered, and then
had been set to labour at the fortifications, chained to another prisoner, and toiling between
the burning sand and burning sun, but treated with less horrible severity than the necessities
of the sea had occasioned on board ship, and experiencing the benefit of intercourse with the
better class of captives, whom their miserable fate had thrown into the hands of the Moors.

It was a favourite almsdeed among the Provencals, Spaniards, and Italians to send money for
the redemption of prisoners to the Moors, and there was a regular agency for ransoms through
the Jews; but German captives were such an exception that no one thought of them, and many
a time had the summons come for such and such a slave by name, or for five poor Sicilians,
twenty Genoese, a dozen Marseillais, or the like, but still no word for the Swabian; till he
had made up his mind that he should either leave his bones in the hot mud of the harbour, or
be only set free by some gallant descent either of the brave King of Portugal, or of the Knights
of Rhodes, of whom the captives were ever dreaming and whispering.

At length his own slave name was shouted; he was called up by the captain of his gang, and,
while expecting some fresh punishment, or, maybe, to find himself sold into some domestic form
of slavery, he was set before a Jewish agent, who, after examining him on his name, country,
and station, and comparing his answers with a paper of instructions, informed him that he was
ransomed, caused his fetters to be struck off, and shipped him off at once for Genoa, with
orders to the captain to consign him to the merchant Signor del Battiste. By him Sir Eberhard
had been received with the warmest hospitality, and treated as befitted his original station,
but Battista disclaimed the merit of having ransomed him.  He had but acted, he said, as the
agent of an Austrian gentleman, from whom he had received orders to inquire after the Swabian
baron who had been his fellow-captive, and, if he were still living, to pay his ransom, and
bring him home.

"The name--the name!" eagerly asked Ebbo and his mother at once.

"The name?  Gian was wont to make bad work of our honest German names, but I tried to learn
this--being so beholden to him.  I even caused it to be spelt over to me, but my letters long
ago went from me.  It seems to me that the man is a knight-errant, like those of thy ballads,
Stine--one Ritter Theur--Theur--"

"Theurdank!" cried Ebbo.

"Ay, Theurdank.  What, you know him?  There is nothing you and your mother don't know, I believe."

"Know him!  Father, he is our greatest and noblest!  He has been kind to me beyond description.
He is the Kaisar!  Now I see why he had that strange arch look which so vexed me when he forbade
me on my allegiance to set forth till my lameness should be gone!  Long ago had he asked me
all about Gian Battista.  To him he must have written."

"The Kaisar!" said Sir Eberhard.  "Nay, the poor fellows I left in Turkey ever said he was
too close of fist for them to have hope from him."

"Oh! that was old Kaisar Friedrich.  This is our own gallant Maximilian--a knight as true and
brave as ever was paladin," said Christina; "and most truly loving and prizing our Ebbo."

"And yet I wish--I wish," said Ebbo, "that he had let me win my father's liberty for myself."

"Yea, well," said his father, "there spoke the Adlerstein.  We never were wont to be beholden
to king or kaisar."

"Nay," say Ebbo, after a moment's recollection, colouring as he spoke; "it is true that I deserved
it not.  Nay, Sir Father, it is well.  You owe your freedom in very truth to the son you have
not known.  It was he who treasured up the thought of the captive German described by the merchant,
and even dreamt of it, while never doubting of your death; it was he who caught up Schlangenwald's
first hint that you lived, while I, in my pride, passed it by as merely meant to perplex me;
it was he who had formed an absolute purpose of obtaining some certainty; and at last, when
my impetuosity had brought on the fatal battle, it was he who bought with his own life the
avowal of your captivity.  I had hoped to have fulfilled Friedel's trust, and to have redeemed
my own backwardness; but it is not to be.  While I was yet lying helpless on my bed, the Emperor
has taken it out of my power.  Mother, you receive him from Friedel's hands, after all."

"And well am I thankful that so it should be," said Christina.  "Ah, Ebbo! sorely should I
have pined with anxiety when thou wast gone. And thy father knows that thou hadst the full
purpose."

"Yea, I know it," said the old man; "and, after all, small blame to him even if he had not.
He never saw me, and light grieves the heart for what the eye hath not seen."

"But," added the wife, "since the Romish king freed you, dear lord, cared he not better for
your journey than to let you come in this forlorn plight?"

This, it appeared, was far from being his deliverer's fault.  Money had been supplied, and
Sir Eberhard had travelled as far as Aosta with a party of Italian merchants; but no sooner
had he parted with them than he was completely astray.  His whole experience of life had been
as a robber baron or as a slave, and he knew not how to take care of himself as a peaceful
traveller; he suffered fresh extortions at every stage, and after a few days was plundered
by his guides, beaten, and left devoid of all means of continuing the journey to which he could
hardly hope for a cheerful end.  He did not expect to find his mother living,--far less that
his unowned wife could have survived the perils in which he had involved her; and he believed
that his ancestral home would, if not a ruin, be held by his foes, or at best by the rival
branch of the family, whose welcome of the outlawed heir would probably be to a dungeon, if
not a halter.  Yet the only magnet on earth for the lonely wanderer was his native mountain,
where from some old peasant he might learn how his fair young bride had perished, and perhaps
the sins of his youth might be expiated by continual prayer in the hermitage chapel where his
sister lay buried, and whence he could see the crags for which his eye and heart had craved
so long with the home-sickness of a mountaineer.

And now, when his own Christina had welcomed him with all the overflow of her loving heart,
unchanged save that hers had become a tenderer yet more dignified loveliness; when his gallant
son, in all the bloom of young manhood, received him with dutiful submission; when the castle,
in a state of defence, prosperity, and comfort of which he had never dreamt, was again his
own;--still the old man was bewildered, and sometimes oppressed almost to distress.  He had,
as it were, fallen asleep in one age of the world, and wakened in another, and it seemed as
if he really wished to defer his wakening, or else that repose was an absolute novelty to him;
for he sat dozing in his chair in the sun the whole of the next day, and scarcely spoke.

Ebbo, who felt it a necessity to come to an understanding of the terms on which they were to
stand, tried to refer matters to him, and to explain the past, but he was met sometimes by
a shake of the head, sometimes by a nod--not of assent, but of sleep; and his mother advised
him not to harass the wearied traveller, but to leave him to himself at least for that day,
and let him take his own time for exertion, letting things meantime go on as usual.  Ebbo obeyed,
but with a load at his heart, as he felt that all he was doing was but provisional, and that
it would be his duty to resign all that he had planned, and partly executed, to this incompetent,
ignorant rule.  He could certainly, when not serving the Emperor, go and act for himself at
Thekla's dower castle of Felsenbach, and his mother might save things from going to utter ruin
at Adlerstein; but no reflection or self-reproach could make it otherwise than a bitter pill
to any Telemachus to have to resign to one so unlike Ulysses in all but the length of his wanderings,--one,
also, who seemed only half to like, and not at all to comprehend, his Telemachus.

Meantime Ebbo attended to such matters as were sure to come each day before the Herr Freiherr.
Now it was a question whether the stone for the mill should be quarried where it would undermine
a bit of grass land, or further on, where the road was rougher; now Berend's swine had got
into Barthel's rye, and Barthel had severely hurt one of them--the Herr Freiherr's interference
could alone prevent a hopeless quarrel; now a waggon with ironwork for the mill claimed exemption
from toll as being for the Baron:  and he must send down the toll, to obviate injustice towards
Schlangenwald and Ulm.  Old Ulrich's grandson, who had run away for a lanzknecht, had sent
a letter home (written by a comrade), the Baron must read and answer it.  Steinmark's son wanted
to be a poor student:  the Herr Freiherr must write him a letter of recommendation.  Mother
Grethel's ewe had fallen into a cleft; her son came to borrow a rope, and ask aid, and the
Baron must superintend the hoisting the poor beast up again. Hans had found the track of a
wolf, and knew the hole where a litter of cubs abode; the Freiherr, his wolf-hound, and his
spear were wanted for their destruction.  Dietrich could not tell how to manage his new arquebus:
the Baron must teach him to take aim.  Then there was a letter from Ulm to invite the Baron
to consult on the tax demanded by the Emperor for his Italian war, and how far it should concern
the profits of the bridge; and another letter from the Markgraf of Wurtemburg, as chief of
the Swabian League, requesting the Lord of Adlerstein to be on the look-out for a band of robbers,
who were reported to be in neighbouring hills, after being hunted out of some of their other
lurking-places.

That very night, or rather nearly at the dawn of a summer morning, there was a yelling below
the castle, and a flashing of torches, and tidings rang through it that a boor on the outskirts
of the mountain had had his ricks fired and his cattle driven by the robbers, and his young
daughters carried off.  Old Sir Eberhard hobbled down to the hall in time to see weapons flashing
as they were dealt out, to hear a clear decided voice giving orders, to listen to the tramp
of horse, and watch more reitern pass out under the gateway than ever the castle had counted
in his father's time.  Then he went back to his bed, and when he came down in the morning,
found all the womankind of the castle roasting and boiling.  And, at noon, little Thekla came
rushing down from the watch-tower with news that all were coming home up the Eagle's Steps,
and she was sure HER baron had sent her, and waved to her.  Soon after, HER baron in his glittering
steel rode his cream-coloured charger (once Friedel's) into the castle court, followed by his
exultant merrymen.  They had overtaken the thieves in good time, made them captives, and recovered
the spoil unhurt; and Heinz and Koppel made the castle ring with the deed of their young lord,
who had forced the huge leader of the band to the earth, and kept him down by main strength
till they could come to bind him.

"By main strength?" slowly asked Sir Eberhard, who had been stirred into excitement.

"He was a loose-limbed, awkward fellow," said Ebbo, "less strong than he looked."

"Not only that, Sir," said Heinz, looking from his old master to his young one; "but old iron
is not a whit stronger than new steel, though the one looks full of might, and you would think
the other but a toy."

"And what have you done with the rogues' heads?" asked the old knight.  "I looked to see them
on your spears.  Or have you hung them?"

"Not so, Sir," said Ebbo.  "I sent the men off to Stuttgard with an escort.  I dislike doing
execution ourselves; it makes the men so lawless.  Besides, this farmer was Schlangenwalder."

"And yet he came to you for redress?"

"Yes, for Sir Dankwart is at his commandery, and he and I agreed to look after each other's lands."

Sir Eberhard retired to his chair as if all had gone past his understanding, and thence he
looked on while his son and wife hospitably regaled, and then dismissed, their auxiliaries
in the rescue.

Afterwards Christina told her son that she thought his father was rested, and would be better
able to attend to him, and Ebbo, with a painful swelling in his heart, approached him deferentially,
with a request that he would say what was his pleasure with regard to the Emperor, to whom
acknowledgments must in the first place be made for his release, and next would arise the whole
question of homage and investiture.

"Look you here, fair son," said Sir Eberhard, rousing himself, "these things are all past me.
I'll have none of them.  You and your Kaisar understand one another, and your homage is paid.
It boots not changing all for an old fellow that is but come home to die."

"Nay, father, it is in the order of things that you should be lord here."

"I never was lord here, and, what is more, I would not, and could not be.  Son, I marked you
yesterday.  You are master as never was my poor father, with all the bawling and blows that
used to rule the house, while these fellows mind you at a word, in a voice as quiet as your
mother's.  Besides, what should I do with all these mills and bridges of yours, and Diets,
and Leagues, and councils enough to addle a man's brain?  No, no; I could once slay a bear,
or strike a fair stroke at a Schlangenwalder, but even they got the better of me, and I am
good for nothing now but to save my soul.  I had thought to do it as a hermit up there; but
my little Christina thinks the saints will be just as well pleased if I tell my beads here,
with her to help me, and I know that way I shall not make so many mistakes.  So, young Sir,
if you can give the old man a corner of the hearth while he lives, he will never interfere
with you.  And, maybe, if the castle were in jeopardy in your absence, with that new-fangled
road up to it, he could tell the fellows how to hold it out."

"Sir--dear father," cried the ardent Ebbo, "this is not a fit state of things.  I will spare
you all trouble and care; only make me not undutiful; take your own place.  Mother, convince him!"

"No, my son," said Sir Eberhard; "your mother sees what is best for me.  I only want to be
left to her to rest a little while, and repent of my sinful life.  As Heinz says, the rusty
old iron must lie by while the new steel does the work.  It is quiet that I need.  It is joy
enough for me to see what she has made you, and all around.  Ah! Stine, my white dove, I knew
thine was a wise head; but when I left thee, gentle little frightened, fluttering thing, how
little could I have thought that all alone, unaided, thou wouldst have kept that little head
above water, and made thy son work out all these changes- -thy doing--and so I know they are
good and seemly.  I see thou hast made him clerkly, quick-witted, and yet a good knight.  Ah!
thou didst tell me oft that our lonely pride was not high nor worthy fame. Stine, how didst do it?"

"I did it not, dear husband; God did it for me.  He gave the boys the loving, true tempers
that worked out the rest!  He shielded them and me in our days of peril."

"Yes, father," added Ebbo, "Providence guarded us; but, above all, our chief blessing has been
the mother who has made one of us a holy saint, and taught the other to seek after him!  Father,
I am glad you see how great has been the work of the Dove you brought to the Eagle's Nest."

CHAPTER XXV:  THE STAR AND THE SPARK

The year 1531 has begun, and Schloss Adlerstein remains in its strength on the mountain side,
but with a look of cultivation on its environs such as would have amazed Kunigunde.  Vines
run up trellises against the rocks; pot-herbs and flowers nestle in the nooks; outbuildings
cluster round it; and even the grim old keep has a range of buildings connected with it, as
if the household had entirely outgrown the capacities of the square tower.

Yet the old hall is still the chief place of assembly, and now that it has been wainscoted,
with a screen of carved wood to shut off the draughty passages, and a stove of bright tiles
to increase the warmth, it is far more cheerful.  Moreover, a window has been opened showing
the rich green meadow below, with the bridge over the Braunwasser, and the little church, with
a spire of pierced lace- work, and white cottages peeping out of the retreating forest.

That is the window which the Lady Baroness loves.  See her there, the lovely old lady of seventy-five--yes,
lovelier than ever, for her sweet brown eyes have the same pensive, clear beauty, enhanced
by the snowy whiteness of her hair, of which a soft braid shows over the pure pale brow beneath
the white band, and sweeping black veil, that she has worn by right for twenty years.  But
the slight form is active and brisk, and there are ready smiles and looks of interest for the
pretty fair-haired maidens, three in number, who run in and out from their household avocations
to appeal to the "dear grandmother," mischievously to tell of the direful yawns proceeding
from brothers Ebbo and Gottfried over their studies with their tutor, or to gaze from the window
and wonder if the father, with the two brothers, Friedel Max and Kasimir, will return from
Ulm in time for the "mid-day eating."

Ah! there they are.  Quick-eyed Vittoria has seen the cavalcade first, and dances off to tell
Ermentrude and Stine time enough to prepare their last batch of fritters for the new-comers;
Ebbo and Gotz rush headlong down the hillside; and the Lady Baroness lays down her distaff,
and gazes with eyes of satisfied content at the small party of horsemen climbing up the footpath.
Then, when they have wound out of sight round a rock, she moves out towards the hall-door,
with a light, quick step, for never yet has she resigned her great enjoyment, that of greeting
her son on the steps of the porch--those steps where she once met such fearful news, but where
that memory has been effaced by many a cheerful welcome.

There, then, she stands, amid the bright throng of grandchildren, while the Baron and his sons
spring from their horses and come up to her.  The Baron doffs his Spanish hat, bends the knee,
kisses her hand, and receives her kiss on his brow, with the fervour of a life- devotion, before
he turns to accept the salutation of his daughters, and then takes her hand, with pretty affectionate
ceremony, to hand her back to her seat.  A few words pass between them.  "No, motherling,"
he says, "I signed it not; I will tell you all by and by."

And then the mid-day meal is served for the whole household, as of old, with the salt-cellar
in the middle, but with a far larger company above it than when first we saw it.  The seven
young folks preserve a decorous silence, save when Fraulein Ermentrude's cookeries are good-naturedly
complimented by her father, or when Baron Friedmund Maximilianus breaks out with some wonderful
fact about new armour seen at Ulm.  He is a handsome, fair, flaxen-haired young man--like the
old Adlersteins, say the elder people--and full of honest gaiety and good nature, the special
pride of his sisters; and no sooner is the meal over, than, with a formal entreaty for dismissal,
all the seven, and all the dogs, move off together, to that favourite gathering-place round
the stove, where all their merry tongues are let loose together.

To them, the Herr Vater and the Frau Grossmutter seem nearly of the same age, and of the same
generation; and verily the eighteen years between the mother and son have dwindled into a very
small difference even in appearance, and a lesser one in feeling.  She is a youthful, beautiful
old lady; he a grave, spare, worn, elderly man, in his full strength, but with many a trace
of care and thought, and far more of silver than of brown in his thin hair and pointed beard,
and with a melancholy thoughtfulness in his clear brown eyes--all well corresponding with the
gravity of the dress in which he has been meeting the burghers of Ulm; a black velvet suit--only
relieved by his small white lace ruff, and the ribbon and jewel of the Golden Fleece, the only
other approach to ornament that he wears being that ring long ago twisted off the Emperor Maximilian's
chain.  But now, as he has bowed off the chaplain to his study, and excused himself from aiding
his two gentlemen-squires in consuming their krug of beer, and hands his mother to her favourite
nook in the sunny window, taking his seat by her side, his features assume an expression of
repose and relaxation as if here indeed were his true home.  He has chosen his seat in full
view of a picture that hangs on the wainscoted wall, near his mother--a picture whose pure
ethereal tinting, of colour limpid as the rainbow, yet rich as the most glowing flower-beds;
and its soft lovely pose, and rounded outlines, prove it to be no produce even of one of the
great German artists of the time, but to have been wrought, under an Italian sky, by such a
hand as left us the marvellous smile of Mona Lisa.  It represents two figures, one unmistakably
himself when in the prime of life, his brow and cheeks unfurrowed, and his hair still thick,
shining brown, but with the same grave earnestness of the dark eye that came with the early
sense of responsibility, and with the first sorrow of his youth.  The other figure, one on
which the painter evidently loved to dwell, is of a lady, so young that she might almost pass
for his daughter, except for the peculiar, tender sweetness that could only become the wife
and mother.  Fair she is as snow, with scarce a deepening of the rose on cheek, or even lip,
fragile and transparent as a spiritual form, and with a light in the blue eyes, and a grace
in the soft fugitive smile, that scarce seems to belong to earth; a beauty not exactly of feature,
but rather the pathetic loveliness of calm fading away--as if she were already melting into
the clear blue sky with the horizon of golden light, that the wondrous power of art has made
to harmonize with, but not efface, her blue dress, golden hair, white coif, and fair skin.
It is as if she belonged to that sky, and only tarried as unable to detach herself from the
clasp of the strong hand round and in which both her hands are twined; and though the light
in her face may be from heaven, yet the whole countenance is fixed in one absorbed, almost
worshipping gaze of her husband, with a wistful simplicity and innocence on devotion, like
the absorption of a loving animal, to whom its master's presence is bliss and sunshine.  It
is a picture to make light in a dark place, and that sweet face receives a loving glance, nay,
an absolutely reverent bend of the knightly head, as the Baron seats himself.

"So it was as we feared, and this Schmalkaldic League did not suit thy sense of loyalty, my
son?" she asks, reading his features anxiously.

"No, mother.  I ever feared that further pressure would drive our friends beyond the line where
begin schism and rebellion; and it seems to me that the moment is come when I must hold me
still, or transgress mine own sense of duty.  I must endure the displeasure of many I love
and respect."

"Surely, my son, they have known you too long and too well not to respect your motives, and
know that conscience is first with you."

"Scarce may such confidence be looked for, mother, from the most part, who esteem every man
a traitor to the cause if he defend it not precisely in the fashion of their own party.  But
I hear that the King of France has offered himself as an ally, and that Dr. Luther, together
with others of our best divines, have thereby been startled into doubts of the lawfulness of
the League."

"And what think you of doing, my son?"

"I shall endeavour to wait until such time as the much-needed General Council may proclaim
the ancient truth, and enable us to avouch it without disunion.  Into schism I WILL not be
drawn.  I have held truth all my life in the Church, nor will I part from her now.  If intrigues
again should prevail, then, Heaven help us!  Meantime, mother, the best we can, as has ever
been your war-cry."

"And much has been won for us.  Here are the little maidens, who, save Vittoria, would never
have been scholars, reading the Holy Word daily in their own tongue."

"Ach, I had not told you, mother!  I have the Court Secretary's answer this day about that
command in the Kaisar's guards that my dear old master had promised to his godson."

"Another put-off with Flemish courtesy, I see by thy face, Ebbo."

"Not quite that, mother.  The command is ready for the Baron Friedmund Maximilianus von Adlerstein
Wildschloss, and all the rest of it, on the understanding that he has been bred up free from
all taint of the new doctrine."

"New?  Nay, it is the oldest of all doctrine."

"Even so.  As I ever said, Dr. Luther hath been setting forth in greater clearness and fulness
what our blessed Friedel and I learnt at your knee, and my young ones have learnt from babyhood
of the true Catholic doctrine.  Yet I may not call my son's faith such as the Kaisar's Spanish
conscience-keepers would have it, and so the boy must e'en tarry at home till there be work
for his stout arm to do."

"He seems little disappointed.  His laugh comes ringing the loudest of all."

"The Junker is more of a boy at two-and-twenty than I ever recollect myself!  He lacks not
sense nor wit, but a fray or a feast, a chase or a dance, seem to suffice him at an age when
I had long been dwelling on matters of moment."

"Thou wast left to be thine own pilot; he is but one of thy gay crew, and thus even these stirring
times touch him not so deeply as thou wert affected by thine own choice in life between disorderly
freedom and honourable restraint."

"I thought of that choice to-day, mother, as I crossed the bridge and looked at the church;
and more than ever thankful did I feel that our blessed Friedel, having aided me over that
one decisive pass, was laid to rest, his tender spirit unvexed by the shocks and divisions
that have wrenched me hither and thither."

"Nay; not hither and thither.  Ever hadst thou a resolute purpose and aim."

"Ever failed in by my own error or that of others--What, thou nestling here, my little Vittoria,
away from all yonder prattle?"

"Dear father, if I may, I love far best to hear you and the grandmother talk."

"Hear the child!  She alone hath your face, mother, or Friedel's eyes!  Is it that thou wouldst
be like thy noble Roman godmother, the Marchesa di Pescara, that makes thee seek our grave
company, little one?"

"I always long to hear you talk of her, and of the Italian days, dear father, and how you won
this noble jewel of yours."

"Ah, child, that was before those times!  It was the gift of good Kaisar Max at his godson's
christening, when he filled your sweet mother with pretty spite by persuading her that it was
a little golden bear-skin."

"Tell her how you had gained it, my son."

"By vapouring, child; and by the dull pride of my neighbours. Heard'st thou never of the siege
of Padua, when we had Bayard, the best knight in Europe, and 500 Frenchmen for our allies?
Our artillery had made a breach, and the Kaisar requested the French knights to lead the storm,
whereto they answered, Well and good, but our German nobles must share the assault, and not
leave them to fight with no better backers than the hired lanzknechts.  All in reason, quoth
I, and more shame for us not to have been foremost in our Kaisar's own cause; but what said
the rest of our misproud chivalry? They would never condescend to climb a wall on foot in company
with lanzknechts!  On horseback must their worships fight, or not at all; and when to shame
them I called myself a mountaineer, more used to climb than to ride, and vowed that I should
esteem it an honour to follow such a knight as Bayard, were it on all fours, then cast they
my burgher blood in my teeth.  Never saw I the Kaisar so enraged; he swore that all the common
sense in the empire was in the burgher blood, and that he would make me a knight of the noblest
order in Europe to show how he esteemed it.  And next morning he was gone!  So ashamed was
he of his own army that he rode off in the night, and sent orders to break up the siege.  I
could have torn my hair, for I had just lashed up a few of our nobles to a better sense of
honour, and we would yet have redeemed our name!  And after all, the Chapter of proud Flemings
would never have admitted me had not the heralds hunted up that the Sorels were gentlemen of
blood and coat armour long ago at Liege.  I am glad my father lived to see that proved, mother.
He could not honour thee more than he did, but he would have been sorely grieved had I been
rejected.  He often thought me a mechanical burgher, as it was."

"Not quite so, my son.  He never failed to be proud of thy deeds, even when he did not understand
them; but this, and the grandson's birth, were the crowning joys of his life."

"Yes, those were glad triumphant years, take them all in all, ere the Emperor sent me to act
ambassador in Rome, and we left you the two elder little girls and the boy to take care of.
My dear little Thekla!  She had a foreboding that she might never see those children more,
yet would she have pined her heart away more surely had I left her at home!  I never was absent
a week but I found her wasted with watching for me."

"It was those weary seven years of Italy that changed thee most, my son."

"Apart from you, mother, and knowing you now indeed to be widowed, and with on the one hand
such contradictory commands from the Emperor as made me sorely ashamed of myself, of my nation,
and of the man whom I loved and esteemed personally the most on earth, yet bound there by his
express command, while I saw my tender wife's health wasting in the climate day by day!  Yet
still, while most she gasped for a breath of Swabian hills, she ever declared it would kill
her outright to send her from me.  And thus it went on till I laid her in the stately church
of her own patroness.  Then how it would have fared with me and the helpless little ones I
know not, but for thy noble godmother, my Vittoria, the wise and ready helper of all in trouble,
the only friend thy mother had made at Rome, and who had been able, from all her heights of
learning and accomplishment, to value my Thekla's golden soul in its simplicity.  Even then,
when too late, came one of the Kaisar's kindest letters, recalling me,--a letter whose every
word I would have paid for with a drop of my own blood six weeks before! and which he had only
failed to send because his head was running on the plan of that gorgeous tomb where he is not
buried!  Well, at least it brought us home to you again once more, mother, and, where you are,
comfort never has been utterly absent from me.  And then, coming from the wilful gloom of Pope
Leo's court into our Germany, streamed over by the rays of Luther's light, it was as if a new
world of hope were dawning, as if truth would no longer be muffled, and the young would grow
up to a world far better and purer than the old had ever seen.  What trumpet-calls those were,
and how welcome was the voice of the true Catholic faith no longer stifled!  And my dear old
Kaisar, with his clear eyes, his unfettered mind--he felt the power and truth of those theses.
He bade the Elector of Saxony well to guard the monk Luther as a treasure.  Ah! had he been
a younger man, or had he been more firm and resolute, able to act as well as think for himself,
things might have gone otherwise with the Church.  He could think, but could not act; and now
we have a man who acts, but WILL not think.  It may have been a good day for our German reputation
among foreign princes when Charles V. put on the crown; but only two days in my life have been
as mournful to me as that when I stood by Kaisar Max's death-bed at Wells, and knew that generous,
loving, fitful spirit was passing away from the earth!  Never owned I friend I loved so well
as Kaisar Max! Nor has any Emperor done so much for this our dear land."

"The young Emperor never loved thee."

"He might have treated me as one who could be useful, but he never forgave me for shaking hands
with Luther at the Diet of Worms.  I knew it was all over with my court favour after I had
joined in escorting the Doctor out of the city.  And the next thing was that Georg of Freundsberg
and his friends proclaimed me a bigoted Papist because I did my utmost to keep my troop out
of the devil's holiday at the sack of Rome!  It has ever been my lot to be in disgrace with
one side or the other!  Here is my daughter's marriage hindered on the one hand, my son's promotion
checked on the other, because I have a conscience of my own, and not of other people's!  Heaven
knows the right is no easy matter to find; but, when one thinks one sees it, there is nothing
to be done but to guide oneself by it, even if the rest of the world will not view it in the
same light."

"Nothing else!  I doubt me whether it be ever easy to see the veritably right course while
still struggling in the midst.  That is for after ages, which behold things afar off; but each
man must needs follow his own principle in an honest and good heart, and assuredly God will
guide him to work out some good end, or hinder some evil one."

"Ay, mother.  Each party may guard one side or other of the truth in all honesty and faithfulness;
he who cannot with his whole heart cast in his lot with either,--he is apt to serve no purpose,
and to be scorned."

"Nay, Ebbo, may he not be a witness to the higher and more perfect truth than either party
have conceived?  Nor is inaction always needful.  That which is right towards either side still
reveals itself at the due moment, whether it be to act or to hold still.  And verily, Ebbo,
what thou didst say even now has set me on a strange thought of mine own dream, that which
heralded the birth of thyself and thy brother.  As thou knowest, it seemed to me that I was
watching two sparkles from the extinguished Needfire wheel.  One rose aloft and shone as a star!"

"My guiding-star!"

"The other fulfilled those words of the Wise Man.  It shone and ran to and fro in the grass.
And surely, my Ebbo, thy mother may feel that, in all these dark days of perplexity and trial,
the spark of light hath ever shone and drawn its trail of brightness in the gloom, even though
the way was long, and seemed uncertain."

"The mother who ever fondled me WILL think so, it may be!  But, ah! she had better pray that
the light be clearer, and that I may not fall utterly short of the star!"

Travellers in Wurtemburg may perhaps turn aside from glorious old Ulm, and the memories of
the battlefields around it, to the romantic country round the Swabian mountains, through which
descend the tributaries of the Danube.  Here they may think themselves fortunate if they come
upon a green valley, with a bright mountain torrent dashing through it, fresh from the lofty
mountain, with terraced sides that rise sheer above.  An old bridge, a mill, and a neat German
village lie clustered in the valley; a seignorial mansion peeps out of the forest glades; and
a lovely church, of rather late Gothic, but beautifully designed, attracts the eye so soon
as it can be persuaded to quit the romantic outline of the ruined baronial castle high up on
one of the mountain ledges.  Report declares that there are tombs in the church well worth
inspection.  You seek out an old venerable blue-coated peasant who has charge of the church.

"What is yonder castle?"

"It is the castle of Adlerstein."

"Are the family still extant?"

"Yea, yea; they built yonder house when the Schloss became ruinous. They have always been here."

The church is very beautiful in its details, the carved work of the east end and pulpit especially
so, but nothing is so attractive as the altar tomb in the chantry chapel.  It is a double one,
holding not, as usual, the recumbent effigies of a husband and wife, but of two knights in armour.

"Who are these, good friend?"

"They are the good Barons Ebbo and Friedel."

Father and son they appear to be, killed at the same time in some fatal battle, for the white
marble face of one is round with youth, no hair on lip nor chin, and with a lovely peaceful
solemnity, almost cheerfulness, in the expression.  The other, a bearded man, has the glory
of old age in his worn features, beautiful and restful, but it is as if one had gone to sleep
in the light of dawn, the other in the last glow of sunset.  Their armour and their crests
are alike, but the young one bears the eagle shield alone, while the elder has the same bearing
repeated upon an escutcheon of pretence; the young man's hands are clasped over a harp, those
of the other over a Bible, and the elder wears the insignia of the order of the Golden Fleece.
They are surely father and son, a maiden knight and tried warrior who fell together?

"No," the guide shakes his head; "they are twin brothers, the good Barons Ebbo and Friedel,
who were born when their father had been taken captive by the Saracens while on a crusade.
Baron Friedel was slain by the Turks at the bridge foot, and his brother built the church in
his memory.  He first planted vines upon the mountains, and freed the peasants from the lord's
dues on their flax.  And it is true that the two brothers may still be seen hovering on the
mountain-side in the mist at sunset, sometimes one, sometimes both."

You turn with a smile to the inscription, sure that those windows, those porches, that armour,
never were of crusading date, and ready to refute the old peasant.  You spell out the upright
Gothic letters around the cornice of the tomb, and you read, in mediaeval Latin,

"Orate pro Anima Friedmundis Equitis Baronis Adlersteini.  A. D. mccccxciii"

Then turn to the other side and read -

"Hic jacet Eberardus Eques Baro Adlersteini.  A.D. mdxliii.  Demum"

Yes, the guide is right.  They are brothers, with well-nigh a lifetime between their deaths.
Is that the meaning of that strange Demum?

Few of the other tombs are worth attention, each lapsing further into the bad taste of later
ages; yet there is one still deserving admiration, placed close to the head of that of the
two Barons.  It is the effigy of a lady, aged and serene, with a delicately-carved face beneath
her stiff head-gear.  Surely this monument was erected somewhat later, for the inscription
is in German.  Stiff, contracted, hard to read, but this is the rendering of it

"Here lies Christina Sorel, wife of Eberhard, xxth Baron von Adlerstein, and mother of the
Barons Eberhard and Friedmund.  She fell asleep two days before her son, on the feast of St.
John, mdxliii.

"Her children shall rise up and call her blessed.

"Erected with full hearts by her grandson, Baron Friedmund Maximilianus, and his brothers and
sisters.  Farewell."