"Dearest, dearest mamma, how can I thank you sufficiently for all this? But why may I not now
at once fly to papa, tell him all I feel and wish cordially and openly, and touch his dear
kind heart? I am sure he would give us both his sanction and his blessing, if he only knew
how much I love him, and my own dear Henry."

"Sweet child," sighed out mamma, "I wish he would, I trust he would, I believe indeed he will
some day: but be advised by me, Maria, I know your father better than you do; only keep quiet,
and all will come round well. Do not broach the subject to him--be still, quite still; and,
above all, be careful that your father does not yet awhile meet Mr. Clements."

"But, dearest mamma, how can I be so silent when my heart is full? and then I hate that gloomy
sort of secresy. Do let me ask papa, and tell him all myself. Perhaps he himself will kindly
break the ice for me, now that your dear mouth has told him all, mamma. How I wish he would!"

"Alas, Maria, you always are so sanguine: your father is not very much given, I fear, to that
sort of sociality. No, my love; if you only will be ruled by me, and will do as I do, managing
to hold your tongue, I think you need not apprehend many conversational advances on your father's
part."

Poor Maria had more than one reason to fear all this was true, too true; so her lip only quivered,
and her eyes overflowed as usual.

Thereafter, Lady Dillaway had all the talk to herself, and she smoothly whispered on without
let or hindrance; and what between really hoping things kindly of her husband's better feelings,
and desiring to lighten the anxieties of dear Maria's heart, she placed the whole affair in
such a calm, warm, and glowing Claude-light, as apparently to supply an emendation (no doubt
the right reading) to the well known aphorism--

  "The course of true love never did run smooth-er."

In fine, our warm and confiding Maria ran up to her own room quite elated after that interview;
and she heartily thanked God that those dreaded obstacles to her affection were so easily got
over, and that her dear, dear father had proved so kind.

It is quite a work of supererogation to report how speedily the welcome news were made known,
by billet-doux, to Henry Clements; but they rather smote his conscience, too, when he reflected
that he had not yet made formal petition to the powers on his own account. To be sure, they
(the lovers, to wit) were engaged only yesterday, quite in an unintended, though delightful,
way: and, previously to that important tête-à-tête, however much he may have thought of only
dear Maria--however frequently he found himself beside her in the circle of their many mutual
friends--however happily he hoped for her love--however foolishly he reveried about her kindness
in the solitude of his Temple garret--still he never yet had seen occasion to screw his courage
to the sticking point, and boldly place his bliss at hard Sir Thomas's disposal. Some day--not
yet--perhaps next week, at any rate not exactly to-day--these were his natural excuses; and
they availed him even to the other side of that social Rubicon, engagement. Nevertheless, now
at length something must decidedly be done; and, within half an hour, Finsbury's deserted square
echoed to the heroic knock of Mr. Henry Clements, fully determined upon claiming his Maria
at her father's hands.

The knight was out; probably, or rather certainly, not yet returned from his counting-house
in St. Benet's Sherehog. So, perforce, our hero could only have an audience with his lady.

The same glossing over of unpalatable truths--the same quiet-breathing counsel--the same tranquil
sort of hopefulness--fully satisfied the lover that his cause was gained. How could he think
otherwise? In the father's absence, he had broached that mighty topic to the mother, who even
now hailed him as her son, and promised him his father's favour. What could be more delicious
than all this? and what more honourable, while prudent, too, and filial, than to acquiesce
in Lady Dillaway's fears about her husband's nervousness at the sight of one who was to take
from him an only and beloved daughter? It was delicacy itself--charming; and Henry determined
to make his presence, for the first few days, as scarce as possible in the sight of that affectionate
father.

And thus it came to pass that two open and most honourable minds, pledged to heartiest love,
could not find one speck of sin in loving on clandestinely. Nay, was it clandestine at all?
Is it, then, merely a legal fiction, and not a religious truth, that husband and wife are one?
and is it not quite as much a matrimonial as a moral one that father and mother are so too?
Was it not decidedly enough to have spoken to the latter, especially when she undertook to
answer for the former? Sir Thomas was a man engrossed in business; and, doubtless, left such
affairs of the Heart to the kinder keeping of Lady Dillaway. No; there was nothing secret nor
clandestine in the matter; and I entirely absolve both Henry and Maria. They could not well
have acted otherwise if any harm should come to it, the mother is to blame.

Lady Dillaway, without doubt, should have known her husband better; but her tranquil love of
our dear Maria seemed to have infatuated her into simply believing--what she so much wished--her
happiness secure. She heeded not how little sympathy Sir Thomas felt with lovers; and only
encouraged her innocent child to play the dangerous game of unconscious disobedience. Accordingly,
consistent with that same quiet kindness of character which had smoothed away all difficulties
hitherto, the indulgent mother now allowed the loving pair to meet alone, for the first time
permissively, to tell each other all their happiness. Lady Dillaway left the drawing-room,
and sent Maria to the heart that beat with hers.

Who shall describe the beauty of that interview--the gush of first affections bursting up unchecked,
unchidden, as hot springs round the Hecla of this icy world! They loved and were beloved--openly,
devotedly, sincerely, disinterestedly. Henry had never calculated even once how much the city
knight could give his daughter; and as for Maria, if she had not naturally been a girl all
heart, the home wherein she was brought up had so disgusted her of still-repeated riches, that
(it is easy of belief) the very name of poverty would be music to her ears. Accordingly, how
they flew into each other's arms, and shed many happy tears, and kissed many kindest kisses,
and looked many tenderest things, and said many loving words, "let Petrarch's spirit in heroics
sing:" as for our present prosaical Muse, she delights in such affections too naturally and
simply to wish to cripple them with rhymes, or confine them in sonnets; she despises decoration
of simple and beautiful Nature--gilding gold, and painting lilies; and she loves to throw a
veil of secret sanctity over all such heaven-blest attachments. "Hence! ye profane,"--these
are no common lovers: I believe their spirits, still united in affections that increase with
time, will go down to the valley of death unchangeably together; and will thence emerge to
brighter bliss hand in hand throughout eternity--a double Heart with one pulse, loving God,
and good, and one another!

CHAPTER VI.

PLEASANT BROTHER JOHN.

"Ho, ho! I suspected as much; so this fellow Clements has been hanging about us at parties,
and dropping in here so often, for the sake of Miss Maria, ey?"--For the door had noisily burst
open to let in Mr. John Dillaway, who under grumbled as above.

"Dear John, I am so rejoiced to see you; I am sure it will make you as happy as myself, brother,
to hear the good news: papa and mamma are so kind, and---- I need not introduce to you my----
you have often met him here, John--Mr. Henry Clements."

"Sir, your most obedient." The vulgar little purse-proud citizen made an impudent sort of distant
bow, and looked for all the world like a coated Caliban sarcastically cringing to a well-bred
Ferdinand.

Poor Henry felt quite taken aback at such frigid formality; and dear Maria's very heart was
in her mouth: but the brother tartly added, "If Mr. Clements wishes to see Sir Thomas--that's
his knock: he was following me close behind: I saw him; but, as I make it a point never to
walk with the governor, perhaps it's as well for you two I dropped in first by way of notice, ey?"

It was a dilemma, certainly--after all that Lady Dillaway had said and recommended: fortunately,
however, her lord the knight, when the street door was opened to him, hastened straightway
to his own "study," where he had to consult some treatise upon tare and tret, and a recent
pamphlet upon the undoubted social duty, 'Run for Gold;' so that awkward rencounter was avoided;
and Mr. Clements, taking up his hat, was enabled to accomplish a dignified retreat.

"Dear John, your manner grieves me; I wish you had been kinder to my--to Henry Clements."

"Oh, you do, do you? does the governor know of all this? the fellow's a beggar."

"For shame, John! you shall not call my noble Henry such names: of course papa has heard all."

"And approves of all this spooneying, ey, miss?"

"Brother, brother, do be gentler with me: mamma's great kindness has smoothed away all objections,
and surely you will be glad, John, to have at last a brother of your own to love you as I do."

"Ey? what? another thief to go shares with me when the governor cuts up? Thank you, miss, I'd
rather be excused. You are quite enough, I can tell you, for you make my whole a half; nobody
wants a third: much obliged to you, though." [Interjections may as well be understood.]

"O, dear brother, you hurt me, indeed you do: I am sure (if it were right to say so) I would
not wish to live a minute, if poor Maria's death could--could make you any happier;--O John,
my heart will----" [Her tears can as readily be understood as his interjections.]

If a domestic railroad could have been cleverly constructed to Maria's chamber from every room
in that great house, it would have stood her in good stead; for every day, from some room or
other, this poor girl of feeling had to rush up stairs in a torrent of grief. Yearning after
sympathy and love, neither felt nor understood by the minds with whom she herded, a trio of
worldliness, apathy, and coarse brutality, her bosom ached as an empty void: treated with habitual
neglect and cold indifference, made various (as occasion might present) by stern rebuke or
bitter sarcasm, her heart was sore within its cell, and the poor dear child lived a life of
daily martyrdom, her feelings smitten upon the desecrated altar of home by the "foes of her
own household."

And not least hostile in the band of those home-foes was this only brother, John. Look at him
as he stands alone there, muttering after her as she ran up stairs, "Plague take the girl!"
and let me tell you what I know of him.

That thick-set form, with its pock-marked face, imprisons as base a spirit as Baal's. He was
a chip of the old block, and something more. If the father had a heart with "gold" written
on it, the son had no heart at all, but gold was in its place. Thoroughly unscrupulous as to
ways and means, and simply acting on the phrase "quocunque modo rem," he seemed to have neither
conscience of evil, nor dread of danger. In two words, he was a "bold bad" man, divested equally
of fear and feeling. The memoirs of his past life hitherto, without controversy very little
edifying, may be guessed with quite sufficient accuracy for all characteristic purposes from
the coarse, sensual, worldly, and iniquitous result now standing for his portraiture before
us. We will waste on such a type of heartlessness as few words as possible: let his conduct
show the man.

Just now, this worthy had risen into high favour with his father: we already know why; he had
suddenly got rich on his own account, and for that very sufficient reason drew any additional
sums he pleased on "the governor's." The trick or two, whereat Sir Thomas hinted, and which
so wise a man would not have blabbed to fools, are worthy of record; not merely as illustrative
of character, but (in one case at least, as we may find hereafter) for the sake of ulterior
consequences.

John Dillaway's first exploit in the money-making line was a clever one. He managed to possess
himself of a carrier-pigeon of the Antwerp breed, one among a flock kept for stock-jobbing
purposes, by a certain great capitalist; and he contrived that this trained bird should wheel
down among the merchants just at noon one fine day in the Royal Exchange. The billet under
its wing contained certain cabalistic characters, and the plain-spoken intelligence, "Louis
Philippe est mort!" In a minute after these most revolutionizing news, French funds, then at
one hundred and twelve, were toppling down below ninety, and our prudent John was buying stock
in all directions: nay, he even made some considerable bargains at eighty-seven. There was
a complete panic in the market, and wretched was the man who possessed French fives. The afternoon's
work so beautifully finished, John spent that night as true-born Britons are reported to have
done before the battle of Hastings, rioting in drunken bliss, and panting for the morrow; and
when the morrow came, and the Paris post with it, I must leave it to be understood with what
complacency of triumph our enterprising stock-jobber hastened to sell again at one hundred
and fourteen, pocketing, in the aggregate, a difference of several thousand pounds. It was
a feat altogether to ravish a delighted father's heart, and no wonder that he counted John
so great a comfort.

Trick number two had been at once even more lucrative and more dangerous. As a stock-broker,
this enterprising Mr. Dillaway had peculiar opportunities of investigating closely certain
records in the office for unclaimed dividends: he had an object in such close inspection, and
discovered soon that one Mrs. Jane Mackenzie, of Ballyriggan, near Belfast, was a considerable
proprietor, and had made no claim for years. Why should so much money lie idle? Was the woman
dead? Probably not; for in that case executors or administrators would have touched it. Legatees
and next of kin are little apt to forget such matters. Well, then, if this Mrs. Jane Mackenzie
is alive, she must be a careless old fool, and we'll try if we can't kill her on paper, and
so come in for spoils instead of kith and kin. "Shrewd Jack," as they called him in the Alley,
chuckled within himself at so feasible a plot.

Accordingly, in an artful and well-concocted way, which we may readily conceive, but it were
weary to detail, John Dillaway managed to forge a will of Jane Mackenzie aforesaid; and inducing
some dressed-up "ladies" of his acquaintance to personate the weeping nieces of deceased (doubtless
with no lack of Irish witnesses beside, competent to swear to any thing), he contrived to pass
probate at Doctors' Commons, and get twelve thousand two hundred and forty-three pounds, bank
annuities transferred, as per will, to the two ladies legatees. As the munificent douceur of
a thousand pounds a-piece had (for the present) stopped the mouths of those supposititious
nieces, who stipulated for not a farthing more nor less, clever John Dillaway a second time
had the filial opportunity of rejoicing his father's heart by this wholesale money-making.
Ten thousand pounds bank stock was manifestly another good day's work; and seeing our John
had not appeared at all in the transaction, even as the ladies' stock-broker, things were made
so safe, that the chuckling knight, when he heard all this (albeit he did tenderly fy, fy a
little at first), was soon induced to think "my son Jack" the very best boy and the very cleverest
dog in Christendom: at once a parent's pride and joy. Yes, Lady Dillaway--such a comfort! And
the worshipful stationer apostrophized "rich Jack" with lips that seemed to smack of Creasy's
Brighton sauce, whilst his calm spouse appeared to acquiesce in her amiable John's good fortune.
The mystified mother little guessed that it was felony.

This good son's new-born wealth, besides the now liberal paternal largess (for his allowance
grew larger in proportion as he might seem to need it less), of course availed to introduce
him to some fashionable and estimable circles of society, whither it might not at all times
be discreet in us to follow him; amongst other places, whether or not the Pandemonium in Jermyn
street proved to him another gold mine, we have not yet heard; but John Dillaway was often
there, the intimate friend of many splendid cavaliers who lived upon their industry, familiar
with a whole rookery of blacklegs, patron of two or three pigeonable city sparks, and, on the
whole, flusher of money than ever. His quiet mother, if she cared about her son at all, and
probably she did care when her health permitted, might well be apprehensive on the score of
that increasing wealth which made the father's joy.

However, with all his prosperity Mr. John as yet professed himself by no means satisfied; he
was far too greedy of gain, and ever since he had come to man's estate, had amiably longed
to be an only child. Not that he heeded a monopoly of the parental feelings and affections,
nor even that he meditated murdering Maria--oh dear, no: rather too troublesome that, and quite
unnecessary; it would be entirely sufficient if he could manage so to influence his father
as to cut that superfluous sister Maria very short indeed in the matter of cash. With this
generous and amiable view, he now for a course of sundry years had whispered, back-bitten,
and lied; he had, as occasion offered, taken mean advantages of Maria's outspeaking honesty,
had set her warm-hearted sayings and charitable doings in the falsest lights, and had entirely
"mildewed the ear" of her listening papa. The knight in truth listened unreluctantly; it was
consolation, if not happiness to him, if he could make or find excuses for harshness to a being
who would not worship wealth; it would be joy and pride, and an honour to his idol, if he should
keep Maria pretty short of cash, and so make her own its preciousness; triumphant would he
feel, as a merely-moneyed man, to see troublesome, obtrusive Heart, with all its win-ways,
and whimperings, and incomprehensible spirituality, with its sermons and its prayers, bending
before him "for a bit of bread." Yes, poor loving disinterested Maria ran every chance of being
disinherited, from the false witness of her brother, simply because she gave him antecedent
opportunities, by her honest likings and dislikings, by her bold rebuke of wrong and open zeal
for right, by her scorn of hypocrisies as to what she did feel, or did not feel, and by the
unpopular fact that she wore a heart, and refused to be the galley-slave of gold.

"Oh, ho, then!" said our crafty John, "we shall soon set this all right with our governor;
thank you for the chance, Miss Maria. If father doesn't kick out this Clements, and cut you
off with a shilling, he is not Sir Thomas, and I am not his son."

CHAPTER VII.

PROVIDENCE SEES FIT TO HELP VILLANY.

"Now that's what I call bones."

It was a currish image, suggestive of the choicest satisfaction. Let us try to discover what
good news such an idiosyncrasy as that of John Dillaway would be pleased to designate as "bones."
He had forthwith gone to his father's room as merry at the chance of ousting poor Maria, as
the heartlessness of avarice could make him; and omnipresent authorship jotted down the dialogue
that follows:

"So, governor, there's to be a wedding here, I find; when does it come off?"

"Ey? what? a wedding? whose?"

"Oh, ho! you don't know, ey? I guessed as much: what do you think now of our laughing, and
crying, and kissing, and praying Miss Maria with--

"Not that beggar Clements? Ey? what? d----" &c., &c.

"Ha, ha, ha, ha! I thought so; why not, governor? Are you an old mole, that you haven't seen
it these six weeks? Are you stone deaf, that all their pretty speeches have been wasted on
you? All I can say is, that if Mr. and Mrs. Clements an't spliced, it's pretty well time they
should be, and--

"Sir Thomas Dillaway rattled out so terrible an oath about Maria's disinheritance if she ventured
upon a marriage, that even John was staggered at such a dreadful curse; nevertheless, an instantaneous
reflection soon caused that curse to be viewed metaphorically as a 'bone;' and the generous
brother cautiously proceeded--

"Why, governor, all this is very odd, must say; when I caught 'em kissing up there ten minutes
ago, they were sharp enough to swear that you knew all about it, and that you were so 'very,
very kind.'"

How is it possible, intelligent reader, to avoid perpetual allusion to an oath? We must not
pare the lion's claws, and give bad men soft speeches: pr'ythee, supply an occasional interjection,
and believe that in this place Sir Thomas swore most awfully; then, in a complete phrensy,
he vowed that he "would turn Maria out of house and home this minute." This was another "bone,"
clearly.

But it was now becoming politic to calm him. Shrewd Jack was well aware that Maria would relinquish
all, and sacrifice, not merely her own heart, but her Henry's too, rather than be guilty of
filial disobedience. All this storming, hopeful as it looked, might still be premature, and
do no substantial good; nay, if this wrath broke out too soon, Maria would at once give way,
become more dutiful than ever, and his golden chance was gone. No: they were not married yet.
Let the wedding somehow first take place, and then--! and then!--for now he knew which way
the wind blew; so the scheming youth calmed his rising triumphs, and counselled his progenitor
as follows:

"Well, governor, I never saw so green a blade in all my born days. Can't you see, now, that
it's all cram this, just to put you in spirits, old boy, in case of such things happening?
It was wicked too of me to tease you so--but I'm so jolly, governor; such luck in Jermyn street--I
knew you'd like a joke served up with such rich sauce as this is, ey? only look!" It was half
a hatful of bank notes raked up at the hazard table.

Sir Thomas's gray eyes darted swiftly at the spoil; often as he had warned and scolded Jack
about the matter of Jermyn street (for Jack was bold enough never to conceal one of his little
foibles), the father had now nothing to object; for, in his philosophy, the end justified the
means. With most of this wise world, he looked upon success as in the nature of virtue, and
failure as the surest sign of vice; accordingly his ire was diverted on the moment, and blazed
in admiration of son Jack: and that estimable creature immediately determined it was wise to
speak in tones of unwonted affection respecting his sister.

"Now, governor, I put it to you plump, isn't this hatful enough to make a man beside himself,
so as not to stick at a white lie or two? Dear Maria there is no more going to become a Mrs.
Clements than you are; she cut the fellow dead long ago: so mind, that's a tough old bird,
you don't say one word to her about him; it would be just raking up the cinders again, you
know, and you might be fool enough to raise a flame. No, governor, if it's any consolation
to you, that pauper connection has been all at an end this month; not but what the beggar's
got my mother's ear still, I fancy; but as to Maria, she detests him. So take my advice, and
don't tease the poor girl about the business. Now, then, that this is all settled, and now
that you 're the merrier for that silly bit of storming at nothing, just listen: the wedding's
my own! isn't Jack Dillaway a clever fellow now, to have caught a Right Honourable Ladyship,
with a park in Yorkshire, a palace in Wales, and a mansion in Grosvenor square?"

At this extempore invention, the delighted parent rained so many blessings on his progeny,
that John knew the tide was turned at once. Our ex-lord mayor had high ambitions, dating from
the year of glory onwards; so that nothing could be more prudent or well-timed that this ideal
aristocratic connection. Jack was a good fellow, a dear boy; and he added to his apparent amiabilities
now by reiterating counsels of kindness and silence towards "poor dear sister Maria, whom he
had been making the scape-goat all this time;" after which done, our stock-jobber feigned a
pressing engagement with some fashionable friends, and left his father to ruminate upon his
worth in lonely admiration.

Well; if that clever and gratuitous lie was not another "bone," I am at a loss to know what
could be a "bone" to such a hound: therefore it appears that Dillaway had three of them at
least to gladden him in solitude; and he went on revealing to wonder-stricken angels, and to
us, the secrets of his crafty soul, as he thus soliloquized:

"Yes, marry the fools first, and then for spoils at leisure; it won't be easy though, she's
so consummate filial, and he so bloated up with honour. They'll never wed, I'm clear, unless
the governor's by to bless 'em; and as to managing that, and the cutting-adrift scheme too,
one kills the other. How the deuce to do it? Eh--do I see a light?"

He did. A light lurid sulphurous gleam upon the midnight of his mind seemed to show the way
before him, as wisp-fire in a marsh. He did see a light, and its character was this:

Quite aware of his mother's tranquil hopefulness, and that his kind good sister was ingenuous
as the day, he soon apprehended the state of affairs; and, resolving to increase those misunderstandings
on all sides, he quickly perceived that he could triumph in the keen Machiavellian policy,
"divide et impera." The plan became more obvious as he calmly thought it out. Evidently his
first step must be to ingratiate himself with both Henry and Maria, as the sympathizing brother,
a very easy task among such charitable fools: number two should be to persuade them, as the
mother did, that Sir Thomas, generally a reserved unsocial man at home (and that in especial
to Maria), was very nervous at the thought of losing his dear daughter, and (while he acquiesced
in the common fate of parents and the usual way of the world) begged that his coming bereavement
might be obtruded on him as little as possible--Mr. Clements always to avoid him, and Maria
to hold her tongue: number three, to amuse his father all the while by the prospect of his
own high alliance, so as effectually to hoodwink him from what was going on: and, number four,
to send him up to Yorkshire a week hence (on some fool's errand to inquire after the imaginary
countess's imaginary mortgages), leaving behind him an autograph epistle (which our John well
knew how to write), recommending "that the ceremony be performed immediately and in his absence,
to spare his feelings on the spot," mentioning "son John as his worthy substitute to give dear
Maria away," and enclosing them at once his "blessing and a hundred pound note to help them
on their honey-moon."

"John Dillaway, if craft be a virtue, thou art an archangel: but if Heaven's chief requirement
is the heart, thou art very like a devil--very. If selfishness deserves the meed of praise,
who more honourable than thou art? But if a heartless man can never reach to happiness, I know
who will live to curse the hour of his birth, and is doomed to perish miserably."

It was a clever scheme, and had unscrupulous hands to work it. Mystified by quiet Lady Dillaway
as our lovers had been from the first, entirely unsuspicious of all guile, and rejoicing in
their brother's marvellous amiability, never surely were such happy days; always together while
the knight was at his counting-house, they gladly acquiesced in his beautifully paternal nervousness;
it was a delightful trait of character in the dear old man; and a very respectable proof that
love is keen-eyed enough to believe what it wishes, but is stone-blind to any thing that might
possibly counteract its hopes. Then again, the mother was a close ally; for having set her
quiet heart upon the match, Lady Dillaway at once encouraged all John's sympathetic scheme,
on the prudent principle of getting the young couple inextricably married first, and then obliging
her lord to be reconciled afterwards to what he could not help. Sir Thomas himself, poor blinkered
creature, was full of the most aristocratical and wealthy fancies, and only yearned to inspect
the acres of his future honourable grand-children. He was, from these fanciful causes, unusually
affable and indulgent to Maria; spoke so kindly always that she was all but dissolving thrice
a-day; and, from his constant reveries about the countess, appeared perpetually to be brooding
over dear Maria's soon approaching loss. Poor girl! more than once she had determined to give
it all up, and make her father happy by serving him still in single blessedness: but then,
how could she break dear Henry's heart, as well as her own? No, no: they should live very near
to Finsbury square, and be in and out constantly, and papa should never miss her: how delightful
was all this!

As for John himself, (our heartless model-man, strange contrast to Maria's perfect charity!)
he chuckled hugely as his scheme now ripened fast. He had long been putting all things in train
for the wedding to-morrow. Every body knew it except Sir Thomas who--what between Jack's prudent
watchfulness, his habitual counting-house hours, his usually unsocial silence, and his now
asserted wish for "not one word upon the subject,"--was at once kept in total ignorance of
all; and yet, as ambassadorial John constantly gave out to Clements and Maria, in an amiable
nervous state of natural acquiescence. Next day, then, the besotted father was about to be
packed post for Yorkshire; the important letter, with its enclosed bank note, was already written
and sealed, as like the governor's hand as possible; a license had been long ago provided,
and the clergyman bespoke, by the brotherly officiousness of John; neither Henry Clements,
who was too delicate, too unsuspecting for prudent business-papers, nor Maria, whose heart
was never likely to have conceived the thought, had even once alluded to a settlement; Lady
Dillaway was lying, as her wont was, on her habitual sofa, in tranquil ecstasy, at to-morrow
morning's wedding: and Holy Providence, for wise purposes no doubt, had seen fit to aid a villain
in his deep-laid treacherous designs.

