After a six weeks' tumble over a waste of waters, Hudson arrived off the coast of Greenland,
the decks of the little Hopewell coated with ice, her rigging and sails hard as boards, and
a north-east gale of wind and snow against her. A barrier of ice forbade further advance; but,
sailing along the edge of this barrier--the first navigator to do so--he made for the coast
of Spitzbergen, already roughly charted by Barents. Tacking up the west coast to the north,
Hudson now explored further the fiords, islands, and harbours, naming some of them--notably
Whale Bay and Hakluyt Headland, which may be seen on our maps of to-day. By 13th July he had
reached his Farthest North, farther than any explorer had been before him, farther than any
to be reached again for over one hundred and fifty years. It was a land of walrus, seal, and
Polar bear; but, as usual, ice shut off all further attempts to penetrate the mysteries of
the Pole, thick fog hung around the little ship, and with a fair wind Hudson turned southward.
"It pleased God to give us a gale and away we steered," says the old ship log. Hudson would
fain have steered Greenland way and had another try for the north. But his men wanted to go
home, and home they went, through "slabbie" weather.

But the voice of the North was still calling Hudson, and he persuaded the Muscovy Company to
let him go off again. This he did in the following year. Only three of his former crew volunteered
for service, and one of these was his son. But this expedition was devoid of result. The icy
seas about Nova Zembla gave no hope of a passage in this direction, and, "being void of hope,
the wind stormy and against us, much ice driving, we weighed and set sail westward."

Hudson's voyages for the Muscovy Company had already come under the notice of the Dutch, who
were vying with the English for the discovery of this short route to the East. Hudson was now
invited to undertake an expedition for the Dutch East India Company, and he sailed from Amsterdam
in the early spring of 1609 in a Dutch ship called the Half-Moon, with a mixed crew of Dutch
and English, including once more his own son. Summer found the enthusiastic explorer off the
coast of Newfoundland, where some cod-fishing refreshed the crews before they sailed on south,
partly seeking an opening to the west, partly looking for the colony of Virginia, under Hudson's
friend, Captain John Smith. In hot, misty weather they cruised along the coast. They passed
what is now Massachusetts, "an Indian country of great hills--a very sweet land." On 7th August,
Hudson was near the modern town of New York, so long known as New Amsterdam, but mist hid the
low-lying hills and the Half-Moon drifted on to James River; then, driven back by a heat hurricane,
he made for the inlet on the old charts, which might lead yet east.

It was 2nd September when he came to the great mouth of the river that now bears his name.
He had been beating about all day in gales and fogs, when "the sun arose and we saw the land
all like broken islands. From the land which we had first sight of, we came to a large lake
of water, like drowned land, which made it to rise like islands. The mouth hath many shores
and the sea breaketh on them. This is a very good land to fall in with, and a pleasant land
to see. At three of the clock in the afternoon we came to three great rivers. We found a very
good harbour and went in with our ship. Then we took our nets to fish and caught ten great
mullets of a foot and a half long each, and a ray as great as four men could haul into the
ship. The people of the country came aboard of us, seeming very glad of our coming, and brought
green tobacco--they go in deer skins, well-dressed, they desire clothes and are very civil--they
have great store of maize, whereof they make good bread. The country is full of great and tall
oaks." To this he adds that the women had red copper tobacco pipes, many of them being dressed
in mantles of feathers or furs, but the natives proved treacherous. Sailing up the river, Hudson
found it a mile broad, with high land on both sides. By the night of 19th September the little
Half-Moon had reached the spot where the river widens near the modern town of Albany. He had
sailed for the first time the distance covered to-day by magnificent steamers which ply daily
between Albany and New York city. Hudson now went ashore with an old chief of the country.
"Two men were dispatched in quest of game," so records Hudson's manuscript, "who brought in
a pair of pigeons. They likewise killed a fat dog and skinned it with great haste with shells.
The land is the finest for cultivation that ever I in my life set foot upon."

Hudson had not found a way to China, but he had found the great and important river that now
bears his name. Yet he was to do greater things than these, and to lose his life in the doing.
The following year, 1610, found him once more bound for the north, continuing the endless search
for a north-west passage--this time for the English, and not for the Dutch. On board the little
Discovery of fifty-five tons, with his young son, Jack, still his faithful companion, with
a treacherous old man as mate, who had accompanied him before, with a good-for-nothing young
spendthrift taken at the last moment "because he wrote a good hand," and a mixed crew, Hudson
crossed the wide Atlantic for the last time. He sailed by way of Iceland, where "fresh fish
and dainty fowl, partridges, curlew, plover, teale, and goose" much refreshed the already discontented
crews, and the hot baths of Iceland delighted them. The men wanted to return to the pleasant
land discovered in the last expedition, but the mysteries of the frozen North still called
the old explorer, and he steered for Greenland. He was soon battling with ice upon the southern
end of "Desolation," whence he crossed to the snowy shores of Labrador, sailing into the great
straits that bear his name to-day. For three months they sailed aimlessly about that "labyrinth
without end" as it was called by Abacuk Prickett who wrote the account of this fourth and last
voyage of Henry Hudson. But they could find no opening to the west, no way of escape.

Winter was coming on, "the nights were long and cold, and the earth was covered with snow."
They were several hundred miles south of the straits, and no way had been found to the Pacific;
they had followed the south shore "to the westernmost bay of all," James Bay, but lo! there
was no South Sea. Hudson recognised the fact that he was land-bound and winter-bound in a desolate
region, with a discontented crew, and that the discontent was amounting to mutiny. On 1st November
they hauled up the ship and selected a wintering place. Ten days later they were frozen in,
and snow was falling continuously every day. "We were victualled for six months, and of that
which was good," runs the record. For the first three months they shot "partridges as white
as milk," but these left with the advent of spring, and hunger seized on the handful of Englishmen
wintering in this unknown land. "Then we went into the woods, hills, and valleys--and the moss
and the frog were not spared." Not till the month of May did the ice begin to melt and the
men could fish. The first day this was possible they caught "five hundred fish as big as good
herrings and some trout," which revived their hopes and their health. Hudson made a last despairing
effort to find a westward passage. But now the men rose in mutiny. "We would rather be hanged
at home than starved abroad!" they cried miserably.

