There is also a further range of facts that go to lessen class differences as regards the survival
of the pecuniary virtues. The pecuniary struggle produces an underfed class, of large proportions.
This underfeeding consists in a deficiency of the necessaries of life or of the necessaries
of a decent expenditure. In either case the result is a closely enforced struggle for the means
with which to meet the daily needs; whether it be the physical or the higher needs. The strain
of self-assertion against odds takes up the whole energy of the individual; he bends his efforts
to compass his own invidious ends alone, and becomes continually more narrowly self-seeking.
The industrial traits in this way tend to obsolescence through disuse. Indirectly, therefore,
by imposing a scheme of pecuniary decency and by withdrawing as much as may be of the means
of life from the lower classes, the institution of a leisure class acts to conserve the pecuniary
traits in the body of the population. The result is an assimilation of the lower classes to
the type of human nature that belongs primarily to the upper classes only. It appears, therefore,
that there is no wide difference in temperament between the upper and the lower classes; but
it appears also that the absence of such a difference is in good part due to the prescriptive
example of the leisure class and to the popular acceptance of those broad principles of conspicuous
waste and pecuniary emulation on which the institution of a leisure class rests. The institution
acts to lower the industrial efficiency of the community and retard the adaptation of human
nature to the exigencies of modern industrial life. It affects the prevalent or effective human
nature in a conservative direction, (1) by direct transmission of archaic traits, through inheritance
within the class and wherever the leisure-class blood is transfused outside the class, and
(2) by conserving and fortifying the traditions of the archaic regime, and so making the chances
of survival of barbarian traits greater also outside the range of transfusion of leisure-class
blood.

But little if anything has been done towards collecting or digesting data that are of special
significance for the question of survival or elimination of traits in the modern populations.
Little of a tangible character can therefore be offered in support of the view here taken,
beyond a discursive review of such everyday facts as lie ready to hand. Such a recital can
scarcely avoid being commonplace and tedious, but for all that it seems necessary to the completeness
of the argument, even in the meager outline in which it is here attempted. A degree of indulgence
may therefore fairly be bespoken for the succeeding chapters, which offer a fragmentary recital
of this kind.

Chapter Ten ~~ Modern Survivals of Prowess

The leisure class lives by the industrial community rather than in it. Its relations to industry
are of a pecuniary rather than an industrial kind. Admission to the class is gained by exercise
of the pecuniary aptitudes--aptitudes for acquisition rather than for serviceability. There
is, therefore, a continued selective sifting of the human material that makes up the leisure
class, and this selection proceeds on the ground of fitness for pecuniary pursuits. But the
scheme of life of the class is in large part a heritage from the past, and embodies much of
the habits and ideals of the earlier barbarian period. This archaic, barbarian scheme of life
imposes itself also on the lower orders, with more or less mitigation. In its turn the scheme
of life, of conventions, acts selectively and by education to shape the human material, and
its action runs chiefly in the direction of conserving traits, habits, and ideals that belong
to the early barbarian age--the age of prowess and predatory life.

The most immediate and unequivocal expression of that archaic human nature which characterizes
man in the predatory stage is the fighting propensity proper. In cases where the predatory
activity is a collective one, this propensity is frequently called the martial spirit, or,
latterly, patriotism. It needs no insistence to find assent to the proposition that in the
countries of civilized Europe the hereditary leisure class is endowed with this martial spirit
in a higher degree than the middle classes. Indeed, the leisure class claims the distinction
as a matter of pride, and no doubt with some grounds. War is honorable, and warlike prowess
is eminently honorific in the eyes of the generality of men; and this admiration of warlike
prowess is itself the best voucher of a predatory temperament in the admirer of war. The enthusiasm
for war, and the predatory temper of which it is the index, prevail in the largest measure
among the upper classes, especially among the hereditary leisure class. Moreover, the ostensible
serious occupation of the upper class is that of government, which, in point of origin and
developmental content, is also a predatory occupation.

The only class which could at all dispute with the hereditary leisure class the honor of an
habitual bellicose frame of mind is that of the lower-class delinquents. In ordinary times,
the large body of the industrial classes is relatively apathetic touching warlike interests.
When unexcited, this body of the common people, which makes up the effective force of the industrial
community, is rather averse to any other than a defensive fight; indeed, it responds a little
tardily even to a provocation which makes for an attitude of defense. In the more civilized
communities, or rather in the communities which have reached an advanced industrial development,
the spirit of warlike aggression may be said to be obsolescent among the common people. This
does not say that there is not an appreciable number of individuals among the industrial classes
in whom the martial spirit asserts itself obtrusively. Nor does it say that the body of the
people may not be fired with martial ardor for a time under the stimulus of some special provocation,
such as is seen in operation today in more than one of the countries of Europe, and for the
time in America. But except for such seasons of temporary exaltation, and except for those
individuals who are endowed with an archaic temperament of the predatory type, together with
the similarly endowed body of individuals among the higher and the lowest classes, the inertness
of the mass of any modern civilized community in this respect is probably so great as would
make war impracticable, except against actual invasion. The habits and aptitudes of the common
run of men make for an unfolding of activity in other, less picturesque directions than that
of war.

This class difference in temperament may be due in part to a difference in the inheritance
of acquired traits in the several classes, but it seems also, in some measure, to correspond
with a difference in ethnic derivation. The class difference is in this respect visibly less
in those countries whose population is relatively homogeneous, ethnically, than in the countries
where there is a broader divergence between the ethnic elements that make up the several classes
of the community. In the same connection it may be noted that the later accessions to the leisure
class in the latter countries, in a general way, show less of the martial spirit than contemporary
representatives of the aristocracy of the ancient line. These nouveaux arrivés have recently
emerged from the commonplace body of the population and owe their emergence into the leisure
class to the exercise of traits and propensities which are not to be classed as prowess in
the ancient sense.

Apart from warlike activity proper, the institution of the duel is also an expression of the
same superior readiness for combat; and the duel is a leisure-class institution. The duel is
in substance a more or less deliberate resort to a fight as a final settlement of a difference
of opinion. In civilized communities it prevails as a normal phenomenon only where there is
an hereditary leisure class, and almost exclusively among that class. The exceptions are (1)
military and naval officers who are ordinarily members of the leisure class, and who are at
the same time specially trained to predatory habits of mind and (2) the lower-class delinquents--who
are by inheritance, or training, or both, of a similarly predatory disposition and habit. It
is only the high-bred gentleman and the rowdy that normally resort to blows as the universal
solvent of differences of opinion. The plain man will ordinarily fight only when excessive
momentary irritation or alcoholic exaltation act to inhibit the more complex habits of response
to the stimuli that make for provocation. He is then thrown back upon the simpler, less differentiated
forms of the instinct of self-assertion; that is to say, he reverts temporarily and without
reflection to an archaic habit of mind.

This institution of the duel as a mode of finally settling disputes and serious questions of
precedence shades off into the obligatory, unprovoked private fight, as a social obligation
due to one's good repute. As a leisure-class usage of this kind we have, particularly, that
bizarre survival of bellicose chivalry, the German student duel. In the lower or spurious leisure
class of the delinquents there is in all countries a similar, though less formal, social obligation
incumbent on the rowdy to assert his manhood in unprovoked combat with his fellows. And spreading
through all grades of society, a similar usage prevails among the boys of the community. The
boy usually knows to nicety, from day to day, how he and his associates grade in respect of
relative fighting capacity; and in the community of boys there is ordinarily no secure basis
of reputability for any one who, by exception, will not or can not fight on invitation.

All this applies especially to boys above a certain somewhat vague limit of maturity. The child's
temperament does not commonly answer to this description during infancy and the years of close
tutelage, when the child still habitually seeks contact with its mother at every turn of its
daily life. During this earlier period there is little aggression and little propensity for
antagonism. The transition from this peaceable temper to the predaceous, and in extreme cases
malignant, mischievousness of the boy is a gradual one, and it is accomplished with more completeness,
covering a larger range of the individual's aptitudes, in some cases than in others. In the
earlier stage of his growth, the child, whether boy or girl, shows less of initiative and aggressive
self-assertion and less of an inclination to isolate himself and his interests from the domestic
group in which he lives, and he shows more of sensitiveness to rebuke, bashfulness, timidity,
and the need of friendly human contact. In the common run of cases this early temperament passes,
by a gradual but somewhat rapid obsolescence of the infantile features, into the temperament
of the boy proper; though there are also cases where the predaceous futures of boy life do
not emerge at all, or at the most emerge in but a slight and obscure degree.

In girls the transition to the predaceous stage is seldom accomplished with the same degree
of completeness as in boys; and in a relatively large proportion of cases it is scarcely undergone
at all. In such cases the transition from infancy to adolescence and maturity is a gradual
and unbroken process of the shifting of interest from infantile purposes and aptitudes to the
purposes, functions, and relations of adult life. In the girls there is a less general prevalence
of a predaceous interval in the development; and in the cases where it occurs, the predaceous
and isolating attitude during the interval is commonly less accentuated.

In the male child the predaceous interval is ordinarily fairly well marked and lasts for some
time, but it is commonly terminated (if at all) with the attainment of maturity. This last
statement may need very material qualification. The cases are by no means rare in which the
transition from the boyish to the adult temperament is not made, or is made only partially--understanding
by the "adult" temperament the average temperament of those adult individuals in modern industrial
life who have some serviceability for the purposes of the collective life process, and who
may therefore be said to make up the effective average of the industrial community.

The ethnic composition of the European populations varies. In some cases even the lower classes
are in large measure made up of the peace-disturbing dolicho-blond; while in others this ethnic
element is found chiefly among the hereditary leisure class. The fighting habit seems to prevail
to a less extent among the working-class boys in the latter class of populations than among
the boys of the upper classes or among those of the populations first named.

If this generalization as to the temperament of the boy among the working classes should be
found true on a fuller and closer scrutiny of the field, it would add force to the view that
the bellicose temperament is in some appreciable degree a race characteristic; it appears to
enter more largely into the make-up of the dominant, upper-class ethnic type--the dolicho-blond--of
the European countries than into the subservient, lower-class types of man which are conceived
to constitute the body of the population of the same communities.

The case of the boy may seem not to bear seriously on the question of the relative endowment
of prowess with which the several classes of society are gifted; but it is at least of some
value as going to show that this fighting impulse belongs to a more archaic temperament than
that possessed by the average adult man of the industrious classes. In this, as in many other
features of child life, the child reproduces, temporarily and in miniature, some of the earlier
phases of the development of adult man. Under this interpretation, the boy's predilection for
exploit and for isolation of his own interest is to be taken as a transient reversion to the
human nature that is normal to the early barbarian culture--the predatory culture proper. In
this respect, as in much else, the leisure-class and the delinquent-class character shows a
persistence into adult life of traits that are normal to childhood and youth, and that are
likewise normal or habitual to the earlier stages of culture. Unless the difference is traceable
entirely to a fundamental difference between persistent ethnic types, the traits that distinguish
the swaggering delinquent and the punctilious gentleman of leisure from the common crowd are,
in some measure, marks of an arrested spiritual development. They mark an immature phase, as
compared with the stage of development attained by the average of the adults in the modern
industrial community. And it will appear presently that the puerile spiritual make-up of these
representatives of the upper and the lowest social strata shows itself also in the presence
of other archaic traits than this proclivity to ferocious exploit and isolation.

As if to leave no doubt about the essential immaturity of the fighting temperament, we have,
bridging the interval between legitimate boyhood and adult manhood, the aimless and playful,
but more or less systematic and elaborate, disturbances of the peace in vogue among schoolboys
of a slightly higher age. In the common run of cases, these disturbances are confined to the
period of adolescence. They recur with decreasing frequency and acuteness as youth merges into
adult life, and so they reproduce, in a general way, in the life of the individual, the sequence
by which the group has passed from the predatory to a more settled habit of life. In an appreciable
number of cases the spiritual growth of the individual comes to a close before he emerges from
this puerile phase; in these cases the fighting temper persists through life. Those individuals
who in spiritual development eventually reach man's estate, therefore, ordinarily pass through
a temporary archaic phase corresponding to the permanent spiritual level of the fighting and
sporting men. Different individuals will, of course, achieve spiritual maturity and sobriety
in this respect in different degrees; and those who fail of the average remain as an undissolved
residue of crude humanity in the modern industrial community and as a foil for that selective
process of adaptation which makes for a heightened industrial efficiency and the fullness of
life of the collectivity. This arrested spiritual development may express itself not only in
a direct participation by adults in youthful exploits of ferocity, but also indirectly in aiding
and abetting disturbances of this kind on the part of younger persons. It thereby furthers
the formation of habits of ferocity which may persist in the later life of the growing generation,
and so retard any movement in the direction of a more peaceable effective temperament on the
part of the community. If a person so endowed with a proclivity for exploits is in a position
to guide the development of habits in the adolescent members of the community, the influence
which he exerts in the direction of conservation and reversion to prowess may be very considerable.
This is the significance, for instance, of the fostering care latterly bestowed by many clergymen
and other pillars of society upon "boys' brigades" and similar pseudo-military organizations.
The same is true of the encouragement given to the growth of "college spirit," college athletics,
and the like, in the higher institutions of learning.

These manifestations of the predatory temperament are all to be classed under the head of exploit.
They are partly simple and unreflected expressions of an attitude of emulative ferocity, partly
activities deliberately entered upon with a view to gaining repute for prowess. Sports of all
kinds are of the same general character, including prize-fights, bull-fights, athletics, shooting,
angling, yachting, and games of skill, even where the element of destructive physical efficiency
is not an obtrusive feature. Sports shade off from the basis of hostile combat, through skill,
to cunning and chicanery, without its being possible to draw a line at any point. The ground
of an addiction to sports is an archaic spiritual constitution--the possession of the predatory
emulative propensity in a relatively high potency, a strong proclivity to adventuresome exploit
and to the infliction of damage is especially pronounced in those employments which are in
colloquial usage specifically called sportsmanship.

It is perhaps truer, or at least more evident, as regards sports than as regards the other
expressions of predatory emulation already spoken of, that the temperament which inclines men
to them is essentially a boyish temperament. The addiction to sports, therefore, in a peculiar
degree marks an arrested development of the man's moral nature. This peculiar boyishness of
temperament in sporting men immediately becomes apparent when attention is directed to the
large element of make-believe that is present in all sporting activity. Sports share this character
of make-believe with the games and exploits to which children, especially boys, are habitually
inclined. Make-believe does not enter in the same proportion into all sports, but it is present
in a very appreciable degree in all. It is apparently present in a larger measure in sportsmanship
proper and in athletic contests than in set games of skill of a more sedentary character; although
this rule may not be found to apply with any great uniformity. It is noticeable, for instance,
that even very mild-mannered and matter-of-fact men who go out shooting are apt to carry an
excess of arms and accoutrements in order to impress upon their own imagination the seriousness
of their undertaking. These huntsmen are also prone to a histrionic, prancing gait and to an
elaborate exaggeration of the motions, whether of stealth or of onslaught, involved in their
deeds of exploit. Similarly in athletic sports there is almost invariably present a good share
of rant and swagger and ostensible mystification--features which mark the histrionic nature
of these employments. In all this, of course, the reminder of boyish make-believe is plain
enough. The slang of athletics, by the way, is in great part made up of extremely sanguinary
locutions borrowed from the terminology of warfare. Except where it is adopted as a necessary
means of secret communication, the use of a special slang in any employment is probably to
be accepted as evidence that the occupation in question is substantially make-believe.

A further feature in which sports differ from the duel and similar disturbances of the peace
is the peculiarity that they admit of other motives being assigned for them besides the impulses
of exploit and ferocity. There is probably little if any other motive present in any given
case, but the fact that other reasons for indulging in sports are frequently assigned goes
to say that other grounds are sometimes present in a subsidiary way. Sportsmen--hunters and
anglers--are more or less in the habit of assigning a love of nature, the need of recreation,
and the like, as the incentives to their favorite pastime. These motives are no doubt frequently
present and make up a part of the attractiveness of the sportsman's life; but these can not
be the chief incentives. These ostensible needs could be more readily and fully satisfied without
the accompaniment of a systematic effort to take the life of those creatures that make up an
essential feature of that "nature" that is beloved by the sportsman. It is, indeed, the most
noticeable effect of the sportsman's activity to keep nature in a state of chronic desolation
by killing off all living thing whose destruction he can compass.

Still, there is ground for the sportsman's claim that under the existing conventionalities
his need of recreation and of contact with nature can best be satisfied by the course which
he takes. Certain canons of good breeding have been imposed by the prescriptive example of
a predatory leisure class in the past and have been somewhat painstakingly conserved by the
usage of the latter-day representatives of that class; and these canons will not permit him,
without blame, to seek contact with nature on other terms. From being an honorable employment
handed down from the predatory culture as the highest form of everyday leisure, sports have
come to be the only form of outdoor activity that has the full sanction of decorum. Among the
proximate incentives to shooting and angling, then, may be the need of recreation and outdoor
life. The remoter cause which imposes the necessity of seeking these objects under the cover
of systematic slaughter is a prescription that can not be violated except at the risk of disrepute
and consequent lesion to one's self-respect.

The case of other kinds of sport is somewhat similar. Of these, athletic games are the best
example. Prescriptive usage with respect to what forms of activity, exercise, and recreation
are permissible under the code of reputable living is of course present here also. Those who
are addicted to athletic sports, or who admire them, set up the claim that these afford the
best available means of recreation and of "physical culture." And prescriptive usage gives
countenance to the claim. The canons of reputable living exclude from the scheme of life of
the leisure class all activity that can not be classed as conspicuous leisure. And consequently
they tend by prescription to exclude it also from the scheme of life of the community generally.
At the same time purposeless physical exertion is tedious and distasteful beyond tolerance.
As has been noticed in another connection, recourse is in such a case had to some form of activity
which shall at least afford a colorable pretense of purpose, even if the object assigned be
only a make-believe. Sports satisfy these requirements of substantial futility together with
a colorable make-believe of purpose. In addition to this they afford scope for emulation, and
are attractive also on that account. In order to be decorous, an employment must conform to
the leisure-class canon of reputable waste; at the same time all activity, in order to be persisted
in as an habitual, even if only partial, expression of life, must conform to the generically
human canon of efficiency for some serviceable objective end. The leisure-class canon demands
strict and comprehensive futility, the instinct of workmanship demands purposeful action. The
leisure-class canon of decorum acts slowly and pervasively, by a selective elimination of all
substantially useful or purposeful modes of action from the accredited scheme of life; the
instinct of workmanship acts impulsively and may be satisfied, provisionally, with a proximate
purpose. It is only as the apprehended ulterior futility of a given line of action enters the
reflective complex of consciousness as an element essentially alien to the normally purposeful
trend of the life process that its disquieting and deterrent effect on the consciousness of
the agent is wrought.

The individual's habits of thought make an organic complex, the trend of which is necessarily
in the direction of serviceability to the life process. When it is attempted to assimilate
systematic waste or futility, as an end in life, into this organic complex, there presently
supervenes a revulsion. But this revulsion of the organism may be avoided if the attention
can be confined to the proximate, unreflected purpose of dexterous or emulative exertion. Sports--hunting,
angling, athletic games, and the like--afford an exercise for dexterity and for the emulative
ferocity and astuteness characteristic of predatory life. So long as the individual is but
slightly gifted with reflection or with a sense of the ulterior trend of his actions so long
as his life is substantially a life of naive impulsive action--so long the immediate and unreflected
purposefulness of sports, in the way of an expression of dominance, will measurably satisfy
his instinct of workmanship. This is especially true if his dominant impulses are the unreflecting
emulative propensities of the predaceous temperament. At the same time the canons of decorum
will commend sports to him as expressions of a pecuniarily blameless life. It is by meeting
these two requirements, of ulterior wastefulness and proximate purposefulness, that any given
employment holds its place as a traditional and habitual mode of decorous recreation. In the
sense that other forms of recreation and exercise are morally impossible to persons of good
breeding and delicate sensibilities, then, sports are the best available means of recreation
under existing circumstances.

But those members of respectable society who advocate athletic games commonly justify their
attitude on this head to themselves and to their neighbors on the ground that these games serve
as an invaluable means of development. They not only improve the contestant's physique, but
it is commonly added that they also foster a manly spirit, both in the participants and in
the spectators. Football is the particular game which will probably first occur to any one
in this community when the question of the serviceability of athletic games is raised, as this
form of athletic contest is at present uppermost in the mind of those who plead for or against
games as a means of physical or moral salvation. This typical athletic sport may, therefore,
serve to illustrate the bearing of athletics upon the development of the contestant's character
and physique. It has been said, not inaptly, that the relation of football to physical culture
is much the same as that of the bull-fight to agriculture. Serviceability for these lusory
institutions requires sedulous training or breeding. The material used, whether brute or human,
is subjected to careful selection and discipline, in order to secure and accentuate certain
aptitudes and propensities which are characteristic of the ferine state, and which tend to
obsolescence under domestication. This does not mean that the result in either case is an all
around and consistent rehabilitation of the ferine or barbarian habit of mind and body. The
result is rather a one-sided return to barbarism or to the feroe natura--a rehabilitation and
accentuation of those ferine traits which make for damage and desolation, without a corresponding
development of the traits which would serve the individual's self-preservation and fullness
of life in a ferine environment. The culture bestowed in football gives a product of exotic
ferocity and cunning. It is a rehabilitation of the early barbarian temperament, together with
a suppression of those details of temperament, which, as seen from the standpoint of the social
and economic exigencies, are the redeeming features of the savage character.

The physical vigor acquired in the training for athletic games--so far as the training may
be said to have this effect--is of advantage both to the individual and to the collectivity,
in that, other things being equal, it conduces to economic serviceability. The spiritual traits
which go with athletic sports are likewise economically advantageous to the individual, as
contradistinguished from the interests of the collectivity. This holds true in any community
where these traits are present in some degree in the population. Modern competition is in large
part a process of self-assertion on the basis of these traits of predatory human nature. In
the sophisticated form in which they enter into the modern, peaceable emulation, the possession
of these traits in some measure is almost a necessary of life to the civilized man. But while
they are indispensable to the competitive individual, they are not directly serviceable to
the community. So far as regards the serviceability of the individual for the purposes of the
collective life, emulative efficiency is of use only indirectly if at all. Ferocity and cunning
are of no use to the community except in its hostile dealings with other communities; and they
are useful to the individual only because there is so large a proportion of the same traits
actively present in the human environment to which he is exposed. Any individual who enters
the competitive struggle without the due endowment of these traits is at a disadvantage, somewhat
as a hornless steer would find himself at a disadvantage in a drove of horned cattle.

The possession and the cultivation of the predatory traits of character may, of course, be
desirable on other than economic grounds. There is a prevalent aesthetic or ethical predilection
for the barbarian aptitudes, and the traits in question minister so effectively to this predilection
that their serviceability in the aesthetic or ethical respect probably offsets any economic
unserviceability which they may give. But for the present purpose that is beside the point.
Therefore nothing is said here as to the desirability or advisability of sports on the whole,
or as to their value on other than economic grounds.

In popular apprehension there is much that is admirable in the type of manhood which the life
of sport fosters. There is self-reliance and good-fellowship, so termed in the somewhat loose
colloquial use of the words. From a different point of view the qualities currently so characterized
might be described as truculence and clannishness. The reason for the current approval and
admiration of these manly qualities, as well as for their being called manly, is the same as
the reason for their usefulness to the individual. The members of the community, and especially
that class of the community which sets the pace in canons of taste, are endowed with this range
of propensities in sufficient measure to make their absence in others felt as a shortcoming,
and to make their possession in an exceptional degree appreciated as an attribute of superior
merit. The traits of predatory man are by no means obsolete in the common run of modern populations.
They are present and can be called out in bold relief at any time by any appeal to the sentiments
in which they express themselves--unless this appeal should clash with the specific activities
that make up our habitual occupations and comprise the general range of our everyday interests.
The common run of the population of any industrial community is emancipated from these, economically
considered, untoward propensities only in the sense that, through partial and temporary disuse,
they have lapsed into the background of sub-conscious motives. With varying degrees of potency
in different individuals, they remain available for the aggressive shaping of men's actions
and sentiments whenever a stimulus of more than everyday intensity comes in to call them forth.
And they assert themselves forcibly in any case where no occupation alien to the predatory
culture has usurped the individual's everyday range of interest and sentiment. This is the
case among the leisure class and among certain portions of the population which are ancillary
to that class. Hence the facility with which any new accessions to the leisure class take to
sports; and hence the rapid growth of sports and of the sporting sentient in any industrial
community where wealth has accumulated sufficiently to exempt a considerable part of the population
from work.

A homely and familiar fact may serve to show that the predaceous impulse does not prevail in
the same degree in all classes. Taken simply as a feature of modern life, the habit of carrying
a walking-stick may seem at best a trivial detail; but the usage has a significance for the
point in question. The classes among whom the habit most prevails--the classes with whom the
walking-stick is associated in popular apprehension--are the men of the leisure class proper,
sporting men, and the lower-class delinquents. To these might perhaps be added the men engaged
in the pecuniary employments. The same is not true of the common run of men engaged in industry
and it may be noted by the way that women do not carry a stick except in case of infirmity,
where it has a use of a different kind. The practice is of course in great measure a matter
of polite usage; but the basis of polite usage is, in turn, the proclivities of the class which
sets the pace in polite usage. The walking-stick serves the purpose of an advertisement that
the bearer's hands are employed otherwise than in useful effort, and it therefore has utility
as an evidence of leisure. But it is also a weapon, and it meets a felt need of barbarian man
on that ground. The handling of so tangible and primitive a means of offense is very comforting
to any one who is gifted with even a moderate share of ferocity. The exigencies of the language
make it impossible to avoid an apparent implication of disapproval of the aptitudes, propensities,
and expressions of life here under discussion. It is, however, not intended to imply anything
in the way of deprecation or commendation of any one of these phases of human character or
of the life process. The various elements of the prevalent human nature are taken up from the
point of view of economic theory, and the traits discussed are gauged and graded with regard
to their immediate economic bearing on the facility of the collective life process. That is
to say, these phenomena are here apprehended from the economic point of view and are valued
with respect to their direct action in furtherance or hindrance of a more perfect adjustment
of the human collectivity to the environment and to the institutional structure required by
the economic situation of the collectivity for the present and for the immediate future. For
these purposes the traits handed down from the predatory culture are less serviceable than
might be. Although even in this connection it is not to be overlooked that the energetic aggressiveness
and pertinacity of predatory man is a heritage of no mean value. The economic value--with some
regard also to the social value in the narrower sense--of these aptitudes and propensities
is attempted to be passed upon without reflecting on their value as seen from another point
of view. When contrasted with the prosy mediocrity of the latter-day industrial scheme of life,
and judged by the accredited standards of morality, and more especially by the standards of
aesthetics and of poetry, these survivals from a more primitive type of manhood may have a
very different value from that here assigned them. But all this being foreign to the purpose
in hand, no expression of opinion on this latter head would be in place here. All that is admissible
is to enter the caution that these standards of excellence, which are alien to the present
purpose, must not be allowed to influence our economic appreciation of these traits of human
character or of the activities which foster their growth. This applies both as regards those
persons who actively participate in sports and those whose sporting experience consists in
contemplation only. What is here said of the sporting propensity is likewise pertinent to sundry
reflections presently to be made in this connection on what would colloquially be known as
the religious life.

The last paragraph incidentally touches upon the fact that everyday speech can scarcely be
employed in discussing this class of aptitudes and activities without implying deprecation
or apology. The fact is significant as showing the habitual attitude of the dispassionate common
man toward the propensities which express themselves in sports and in exploit generally. And
this is perhaps as convenient a place as any to discuss that undertone of deprecation which
runs through all the voluminous discourse in defense or in laudation of athletic sports, as
well as of other activities of a predominantly predatory character. The same apologetic frame
of mind is at least beginning to be observable in the spokesmen of most other institutions
handed down from the barbarian phase of life. Among these archaic institutions which are felt
to need apology are comprised, with others, the entire existing system of the distribution
of wealth, together with the resulting class distinction of status; all or nearly all forms
of consumption that come under the head of conspicuous waste; the status of women under the
patriarchal system; and many features of the traditional creeds and devout observances, especially
the exoteric expressions of the creed and the naive apprehension of received observances. What
is to be said in this connection of the apologetic attitude taken in commending sports and
the sporting character will therefore apply, with a suitable change in phraseology, to the
apologies offered in behalf of these other, related elements of our social heritage.

There is a feeling--usually vague and not commonly avowed in so many words by the apologist
himself, but ordinarily perceptible in the manner of his discourse--that these sports, as well
as the general range of predaceous impulses and habits of thought which underlie the sporting
character, do not altogether commend themselves to common sense. "As to the majority of murderers,
they are very incorrect characters." This aphorism offers a valuation of the predaceous temperament,
and of the disciplinary effects of its overt expression and exercise, as seen from the moralist's
point of view. As such it affords an indication of what is the deliverance of the sober sense
of mature men as to the degree of availability of the predatory habit of mind for the purposes
of the collective life. It is felt that the presumption is against any activity which involves
habituation to the predatory attitude, and that the burden of proof lies with those who speak
for the rehabilitation of the predaceous temper and for the practices which strengthen it.
There is a strong body of popular sentiment in favor of diversions and enterprises of the kind
in question; but there is at the same time present in the community a pervading sense that
this ground of sentiment wants legitimation. The required legitimation is ordinarily sought
by showing that although sports are substantially of a predatory, socially disintegrating effect;
although their proximate effect runs in the direction of reversion to propensities that are
industrially disserviceable; yet indirectly and remotely--by some not readily comprehensible
process of polar induction, or counter-irritation perhaps--sports are conceived to foster a
habit of mind that is serviceable for the social or industrial purpose. That is to say, although
sports are essentially of the nature of invidious exploit, it is presumed that by some remote
and obscure effect they result in the growth of a temperament conducive to non-invidious work.
It is commonly attempted to show all this empirically or it is rather assumed that this is
the empirical generalization which must be obvious to any one who cares to see it. In conducting
the proof of this thesis the treacherous ground of inference from cause to effect is somewhat
shrewdly avoided, except so far as to show that the "manly virtues" spoken of above are fostered
by sports. But since it is these manly virtues that are (economically) in need of legitimation,
the chain of proof breaks off where it should begin. In the most general economic terms, these
apologies are an effort to show that, in spite of the logic of the thing, sports do in fact
further what may broadly be called workmanship. So long as he has not succeeded in persuading
himself or others that this is their effect the thoughtful apologist for sports will not rest
content, and commonly, it is to be admitted, he does not rest content. His discontent with
his own vindication of the practice in question is ordinarily shown by his truculent tone and
by the eagerness with which he heaps up asseverations in support of his position. But why are
apologies needed? If there prevails a body of popular sentient in favor of sports, why is not
that fact a sufficient legitimation? The protracted discipline of prowess to which the race
has been subjected under the predatory and quasi-peaceable culture has transmitted to the men
of today a temperament that finds gratification in these expressions of ferocity and cunning.
So, why not accept these sports as legitimate expressions of a normal and wholesome human nature?
What other norm is there that is to be lived up to than that given in the aggregate range of
propensities that express themselves in the sentiments of this generation, including the hereditary
strain of prowess? The ulterior norm to which appeal is taken is the instinct of workmanship,
which is an instinct more fundamental, of more ancient prescription, than the propensity to
predatory emulation. The latter is but a special development of the instinct of workmanship,
a variant, relatively late and ephemeral in spite of its great absolute antiquity. The emulative
predatory impulse--or the instinct of sportsmanship, as it might well be called--is essentially
unstable in comparison with the primordial instinct of workmanship out of which it has been
developed and differentiated. Tested by this ulterior norm of life, predatory emulation, and
therefore the life of sports, falls short.

The manner and the measure in which the institution of a leisure class conduces to the conservation
of sports and invidious exploit can of course not be succinctly stated. From the evidence already
recited it appears that, in sentient and inclinations, the leisure class is more favorable
to a warlike attitude and animus than the industrial classes. Something similar seems to be
true as regards sports. But it is chiefly in its indirect effects, though the canons of decorous
living, that the institution has its influence on the prevalent sentiment with respect to the
sporting life. This indirect effect goes almost unequivocally in the direction of furthering
a survival of the predatory temperament and habits; and this is true even with respect to those
variants of the sporting life which the higher leisure-class code of proprieties proscribes;
as, e.g., prize-fighting, cock-fighting, and other like vulgar expressions of the sporting
temper. Whatever the latest authenticated schedule of detail proprieties may say, the accredited
canons of decency sanctioned by the institution say without equivocation that emulation and
waste are good and their opposites are disreputable. In the crepuscular light of the social
nether spaces the details of the code are not apprehended with all the facility that might
be desired, and these broad underlying canons of decency are therefore applied somewhat unreflectingly,
with little question as to the scope of their competence or the exceptions that have been sanctioned
in detail.

Addiction to athletic sports, not only in the way of direct participation, but also in the
way of sentiment and moral support, is, in a more or less pronounced degree, a characteristic
of the leisure class; and it is a trait which that class shares with the lower-class delinquents,
and with such atavistic elements throughout the body of the community as are endowed with a
dominant predaceous trend. Few individuals among the populations of Western civilized countries
are so far devoid of the predaceous instinct as to find no diversion in contemplating athletic
sports and games, but with the common run of individuals among the industrial classes the inclination
to sports does not assert itself to the extent of constituting what may fairly be called a
sporting habit. With these classes sports are an occasional diversion rather than a serious
feature of life. This common body of the people can therefore not be said to cultivate the
sporting propensity. Although it is not obsolete in the average of them, or even in any appreciable
number of individuals, yet the predilection for sports in the commonplace industrial classes
is of the nature of a reminiscence, more or less diverting as an occasional interest, rather
than a vital and permanent interest that counts as a dominant factor in shaping the organic
complex of habits of thought into which it enters. As it manifests itself in the sporting life
of today, this propensity may not appear to be an economic factor of grave consequence. Taken
simply by itself it does not count for a great deal in its direct effects on the industrial
efficiency or the consumption of any given individual; but the prevalence and the growth of
the type of human nature of which this propensity is a characteristic feature is a matter of
some consequence. It affects the economic life of the collectivity both as regards the rate
of economic development and as regards the character of the results attained by the development.
For better or worse, the fact that the popular habits of thought are in any degree dominated
by this type of character can not but greatly affect the scope, direction, standards, and ideals
of the collective economic life, as well as the degree of adjustment of the collective life
to the environment.

Something to a like effect is to be said of other traits that go to make up the barbarian character.
For the purposes of economic theory, these further barbarian traits may be taken as concomitant
variations of that predaceous temper of which prowess is an expression. In great measure they
are not primarily of an economic character, nor do they have much direct economic bearing.
They serve to indicate the stage of economic evolution to which the individual possessed of
them is adapted. They are of importance, therefore, as extraneous tests of the degree of adaptation
of the character in which they are comprised to the economic exigencies of today, but they
are also to some extent important as being aptitudes which themselves go to increase or diminish
the economic serviceability of the individual.

As it finds expression in the life of the barbarian, prowess manifests itself in two main directions--force
and fraud. In varying degrees these two forms of expression are similarly present in modern
warfare, in the pecuniary occupations, and in sports and games. Both lines of aptitudes are
cultivated and strengthened by the life of sport as well as by the more serious forms of emulative
life. Strategy or cunning is an element invariably present in games, as also in warlike pursuits
and in the chase. In all of these employments strategy tends to develop into finesse and chicanery.
Chicanery, falsehood, browbeating, hold a well-secured place in the method of procedure of
any athletic contest and in games generally. The habitual employment of an umpire, and the
minute technical regulations governing the limits and details of permissible fraud and strategic
advantage, sufficiently attest the fact that fraudulent practices and attempts to overreach
one's opponents are not adventitious features of the game. In the nature of the case habituation
to sports should conduce to a fuller development of the aptitude for fraud; and the prevalence
in the community of that predatory temperament which inclines men to sports connotes a prevalence
of sharp practice and callous disregard of the interests of others, individually and collectively.
Resort to fraud, in any guise and under any legitimation of law or custom, is an expression
of a narrowly self-regarding habit of mind. It is needless to dwell at any length on the economic
value of this feature of the sporting character.

In this connection it is to be noted that the most obvious characteristic of the physiognomy
affected by athletic and other sporting men is that of an extreme astuteness. The gifts and
exploits of Ulysses are scarcely second to those of Achilles, either in their substantial furtherance
of the game or in the éclat which they give the astute sporting man among his associates. The
pantomime of astuteness is commonly the first step in that assimilation to the professional
sporting man which a youth undergoes after matriculation in any reputable school, of the secondary
or the higher education, as the case may be. And the physiognomy of astuteness, as a decorative
feature, never ceases to receive the thoughtful attention of men whose serious interest lies
in athletic games, races, or other contests of a similar emulative nature. As a further indication
of their spiritual kinship, it may be pointed out that the members of the lower delinquent
class usually show this physiognomy of astuteness in a marked degree, and that they very commonly
show the same histrionic exaggeration of it that is often seen in the young candidate for athletic
honors. This, by the way, is the most legible mark of what is vulgarly called "toughness" in
youthful aspirants for a bad name.

The astute man, it may be remarked, is of no economic value to the community--unless it be
for the purpose of sharp practice in dealings with other communities. His functioning is not
a furtherance of the generic life process. At its best, in its direct economic bearing, it
is a conversion of the economic substance of the collectivity to a growth alien to the collective
life process--very much after the analogy of what in medicine would be called a benign tumor,
with some tendency to transgress the uncertain line that divides the benign from the malign
growths. The two barbarian traits, ferocity and astuteness, go to make up the predaceous temper
or spiritual attitude. They are the expressions of a narrowly self-regarding habit of mind.
Both are highly serviceable for individual expediency in a life looking to invidious success.
Both also have a high aesthetic value. Both are fostered by the pecuniary culture. But both
alike are of no use for the purposes of the collective life.

Chapter Eleven ~~ The Belief in Luck

The gambling propensity is another subsidiary trait of the barbarian temperament. It is a concomitant
variation of character of almost universal prevalence among sporting men and among men given
to warlike and emulative activities generally. This trait also has a direct economic value.
It is recognized to be a hindrance to the highest industrial efficiency of the aggregate in
any community where it prevails in an appreciable degree. The gambling proclivity is doubtfully
to be classed as a feature belonging exclusively to the predatory type of human nature. The
chief factor in the gambling habit is the belief in luck; and this belief is apparently traceable,
at least in its elements, to a stage in human evolution antedating the predatory culture. It
may well have been under the predatory culture that the belief in luck was developed into the
form in which it is present, as the chief element of the gambling proclivity, in the sporting
temperament. It probably owes the specific form under which it occurs in the modern culture
to the predatory discipline. But the belief in luck is in substance a habit of more ancient
date than the predatory culture. It is one form of the artistic apprehension of things. The
belief seems to be a trait carried over in substance from an earlier phase into the barbarian
culture, and transmuted and transmitted through that culture to a later stage of human development
under a specific form imposed by the predatory discipline. But in any case, it is to be taken
as an archaic trait, inherited from a more or less remote past, more or less incompatible with
the requirements of the modern industrial process, and more or less of a hindrance to the fullest
efficiency of the collective economic life of the present.

While the belief in luck is the basis of the gambling habit, it is not the only element that
enters into the habit of betting. Betting on the issue of contests of strength and skill proceeds
on a further motive, without which the belief in luck would scarcely come in as a prominent
feature of sporting life. This further motive is the desire of the anticipated winner, or the
partisan of the anticipated winning side, to heighten his side's ascendency at the cost of
the loser. Not only does the stronger side score a more signal victory, and the losing side
suffer a more painful and humiliating defeat, in proportion as the pecuniary gain and loss
in the wager is large; although this alone is a consideration of material weight. But the wager
is commonly laid also with a view, not avowed in words nor even recognized in set terms in
petto, to enhancing the chances of success for the contestant on which it is laid. It is felt
that substance and solicitude expended to this end can not go for naught in the issue. There
is here a special manifestation of the instinct of workmanship, backed by an even more manifest
sense that the animistic congruity of things must decide for a victorious outcome for the side
in whose behalf the propensity inherent in events has been propitiated and fortified by so
much of conative and kinetic urging. This incentive to the wager expresses itself freely under
the form of backing one's favorite in any contest, and it is unmistakably a predatory feature.
It is as ancillary to the predaceous impulse proper that the belief in luck expresses itself
in a wager. So that it may be set down that in so far as the belief in luck comes to expression
in the form of laying a wager, it is to be accounted an integral element of the predatory type
of character. The belief is, in its elements, an archaic habit which belongs substantially
to early, undifferentiated human nature; but when this belief is helped out by the predatory
emulative impulse, and so is differentiated into the specific form of the gambling habit, it
is, in this higher-developed and specific form, to be classed as a trait of the barbarian character.

The belief in luck is a sense of fortuitous necessity in the sequence of phenomena. In its
various mutations and expressions, it is of very serious importance for the economic efficiency
of any community in which it prevails to an appreciable extent. So much so as to warrant a
more detailed discussion of its origin and content and of the bearing of its various ramifications
upon economic structure and function, as well as a discussion of the relation of the leisure
class to its growth, differentiation, and persistence. In the developed, integrated form in
which it is most readily observed in the barbarian of the predatory culture or in the sporting
man of modern communities, the belief comprises at least two distinguishable elements--which
are to be taken as two different phases of the same fundamental habit of thought, or as the
same psychological factor in two successive phases of its evolution. The fact that these two
elements are successive phases of the same general line of growth of belief does not hinder
their coexisting in the habits of thought of any given individual. The more primitive form
(or the more archaic phase) is an incipient animistic belief, or an animistic sense of relations
and things, that imputes a quasi-personal character to facts. To the archaic man all the obtrusive
and obviously consequential objects and facts in his environment have a quasi-personal individuality.
They are conceived to be possessed of volition, or rather of propensities, which enter into
the complex of causes and affect events in an inscrutable manner. The sporting man's sense
of luck and chance, or of fortuitous necessity, is an inarticulate or inchoate animism. It
applies to objects and situations, often in a very vague way; but it is usually so far defined
as to imply the possibility of propitiating, or of deceiving and cajoling, or otherwise disturbing
the holding of propensities resident in the objects which constitute the apparatus and accessories
of any game of skill or chance. There are few sporting men who are not in the habit of wearing
charms or talismans to which more or less of efficacy is felt to belong. And the proportion
is not much less of those who instinctively dread the "hoodooing" of the contestants or the
apparatus engaged in any contest on which they lay a wager; or who feel that the fact of their
backing a given contestant or side in the game does and ought to strengthen that side; or to
whom the "mascot" which they cultivate means something more than a jest.

In its simple form the belief in luck is this instinctive sense of an inscrutable teleological
propensity in objects or situations. Objects or events have a propensity to eventuate in a
given end, whether this end or objective point of the sequence is conceived to be fortuitously
given or deliberately sought. From this simple animism the belief shades off by insensible
gradations into the second, derivative form or phase above referred to, which is a more or
less articulate belief in an inscrutable preternatural agency. The preternatural agency works
through the visible objects with which it is associated, but is not identified with these objects
in point of individuality. The use of the term "preternatural agency" here carries no further
implication as to the nature of the agency spoken of as preternatural. This is only a farther
development of animistic belief. The preternatural agency is not necessarily conceived to be
a personal agent in the full sense, but it is an agency which partakes of the attributes of
personality to the extent of somewhat arbitrarily influencing the outcome of any enterprise,
and especially of any contest. The pervading belief in the hamingia or gipta (gaefa, authna)
which lends so much of color to the Icelandic sagas specifically, and to early Germanic folk-legends,
is an illustration of this sense of an extra-physical propensity in the course of events.

In this expression or form of the belief the propensity is scarcely personified although to
a varying extent an individuality is imputed to it; and this individuated propensity is sometimes
conceived to yield to circumstances, commonly to circumstances of a spiritual or preternatural
character. A well-known and striking exemplification of the belief--in a fairly advanced stage
of differentiation and involving an anthropomorphic personification of the preternatural agent
appealed to--is afforded by the wager of battle. Here the preternatural agent was conceived
to act on request as umpire, and to shape the outcome of the contest in accordance with some
stipulated ground of decision, such as the equity or legality of the respective contestants'
claims. The like sense of an inscrutable but spiritually necessary tendency in events is still
traceable as an obscure element in current popular belief, as shown, for instance, by the well-accredited
maxim, "Thrice is he armed who knows his quarrel just,"--a maxim which retains much of its
significance for the average unreflecting person even in the civilized communities of today.
The modern reminiscence of the belief in the hamingia, or in the guidance of an unseen hand,
which is traceable in the acceptance of this maxim is faint and perhaps uncertain; and it seems
in any case to be blended with other psychological moments that are not clearly of an animistic
character.

For the purpose in hand it is unnecessary to look more closely into the psychological process
or the ethnological line of descent by which the later of these two animistic apprehensions
of propensity is derived from the earlier. This question may be of the gravest importance to
folk-psychology or to the theory of the evolution of creeds and cults. The same is true of
the more fundamental question whether the two are related at all as successive phases in a
sequence of development. Reference is here made to the existence of these questions only to
remark that the interest of the present discussion does not lie in that direction. So far as
concerns economic theory, these two elements or phases of the belief in luck, or in an extra-causal
trend or propensity in things, are of substantially the same character. They have an economic
significance as habits of thought which affect the individual's habitual view of the facts
and sequences with which he comes in contact, and which thereby affect the individual's serviceability
for the industrial purpose. Therefore, apart from all question of the beauty, worth, or beneficence
of any animistic belief, there is place for a discussion of their economic bearing on the serviceability
of the individual as an economic factor, and especially as an industrial agent.

It has already been noted in an earlier connection, that in order to have the highest serviceability
in the complex industrial processes of today, the individual must be endowed with the aptitude
and the habit of readily apprehending and relating facts in terms of causal sequence. Both
as a whole and in its details, the industrial process is a process of quantitative causation.
The "intelligence" demanded of the workman, as well as of the director of an industrial process,
is little else than a degree of facility in the apprehension of and adaptation to a quantitatively
determined causal sequence. This facility of apprehension and adaptation is what is lacking
in stupid workmen, and the growth of this facility is the end sought in their education--so
far as their education aims to enhance their industrial efficiency.

In so far as the individual's inherited aptitudes or his training incline him to account for
facts and sequences in other terms than those of causation or matter-of-fact, they lower his
productive efficiency or industrial usefulness. This lowering of efficiency through a penchant
for animistic methods of apprehending facts is especially apparent when taken in the mass-when
a given population with an animistic turn is viewed as a whole. The economic drawbacks of animism
are more patent and its consequences are more far-reaching under the modern system of large
industry than under any other. In the modern industrial communities, industry is, to a constantly
increasing extent, being organized in a comprehensive system of organs and functions mutually
conditioning one another; and therefore freedom from all bias in the causal apprehension of
phenomena grows constantly more requisite to efficiency on the part of the men concerned in
industry. Under a system of handicraft an advantage in dexterity, diligence, muscular force,
or endurance may, in a very large measure, offset such a bias in the habits of thought of the
workmen.

Similarly in agricultural industry of the traditional kind, which closely resembles handicraft
in the nature of the demands made upon the workman. In both, the workman is himself the prime
mover chiefly depended upon, and the natural forces engaged are in large part apprehended as
inscrutable and fortuitous agencies, whose working lies beyond the workman's control or discretion.
In popular apprehension there is in these forms of industry relatively little of the industrial
process left to the fateful swing of a comprehensive mechanical sequence which must be comprehended
in terms of causation and to which the operations of industry and the movements of the workmen
must be adapted. As industrial methods develop, the virtues of the handicraftsman count for
less and less as an offset to scanty intelligence or a halting acceptance of the sequence of
cause and effect. The industrial organization assumes more and more of the character of a mechanism,
in which it is man's office to discriminate and select what natural forces shall work out their
effects in his service. The workman's part in industry changes from that of a prime mover to
that of discrimination and valuation of quantitative sequences and mechanical facts. The faculty
of a ready apprehension and unbiased appreciation of causes in his environment grows in relative
economic importance and any element in the complex of his habits of thought which intrudes
a bias at variance with this ready appreciation of matter-of-fact sequence gains proportionately
in importance as a disturbing element acting to lower his industrial usefulness. Through its
cumulative effect upon the habitual attitude of the population, even a slight or inconspicuous
bias towards accounting for everyday facts by recourse to other ground than that of quantitative
causation may work an appreciable lowering of the collective industrial efficiency of a community.

The animistic habit of mind may occur in the early, undifferentiated form of an inchoate animistic
belief, or in the later and more highly integrated phase in which there is an anthropomorphic
personification of the propensity imputed to facts. The industrial value of such a lively animistic
sense, or of such recourse to a preternatural agency or the guidance of an unseen hand, is
of course very much the same in either case. As affects the industrial serviceability of the
individual, the effect is of the same kind in either case; but the extent to which this habit
of thought dominates or shapes the complex of his habits of thought varies with the degree
of immediacy, urgency, or exclusiveness with which the individual habitually applies the animistic
or anthropomorphic formula in dealing with the facts of his environment. The animistic habit
acts in all cases to blur the appreciation of causal sequence; but the earlier, less reflected,
less defined animistic sense of propensity may be expected to affect the intellectual processes
of the individual in a more pervasive way than the higher forms of anthropomorphism. Where
the animistic habit is present in the naive form, its scope and range of application are not
defined or limited. It will therefore palpably affect his thinking at every turn of the person's
life--wherever he has to do with the material means of life. In the later, maturer development
of animism, after it has been defined through the process of anthropomorphic elaboration, when
its application has been limited in a somewhat consistent fashion to the remote and the invisible,
it comes about that an increasing range of everyday facts are provisionally accounted for without
recourse to the preternatural agency in which a cultivated animism expresses itself. A highly
integrated, personified preternatural agency is not a convenient means of handling the trivial
occurrences of life, and a habit is therefore easily fallen into of accounting for many trivial
or vulgar phenomena in terms of sequence. The provisional explanation so arrived at is by neglect
allowed to stand as definitive, for trivial purposes, until special provocation or perplexity
recalls the individual to his allegiance. But when special exigencies arise, that is to say,
when there is peculiar need of a full and free recourse to the law of cause and effect, then
the individual commonly has recourse to the preternatural agency as a universal solvent, if
he is possessed of an anthropomorphic belief.

The extra-causal propensity or agent has a very high utility as a recourse in perplexity, but
its utility is altogether of a non-economic kind. It is especially a refuge and a fund of comfort
where it has attained the degree of consistency and specialization that belongs to an anthropomorphic
divinity. It has much to commend it even on other grounds than that of affording the perplexed
individual a means of escape from the difficulty of accounting for phenomena in terms of causal
sequence. It would scarcely be in place here to dwell on the obvious and well-accepted merits
of an anthropomorphic divinity, as seen from the point of view of the aesthetic, moral, or
spiritual interest, or even as seen from the less remote standpoint of political, military,
or social policy. The question here concerns the less picturesque and less urgent economic
value of the belief in such a preternatural agency, taken as a habit of thought which affects
the industrial serviceability of the believer. And even within this narrow, economic range,
the inquiry is perforce confined to the immediate bearing of this habit of thought upon the
believer's workmanlike serviceability, rather than extended to include its remoter economic
effects. These remoter effects are very difficult to trace. The inquiry into them is so encumbered
with current preconceptions as to the degree in which life is enhanced by spiritual contact
with such a divinity, that any attempt to inquire into their economic value must for the present
be fruitless.

The immediate, direct effect of the animistic habit of thought upon the general frame of mind
of the believer goes in the direction of lowering his effective intelligence in the respect
in which intelligence is of especial consequence for modern industry. The effect follows, in
varying degree, whether the preternatural agent or propensity believed in is of a higher or
a lower cast. This holds true of the barbarian's and the sporting man's sense of luck and propensity,
and likewise of the somewhat higher developed belief in an anthropomorphic divinity, such as
is commonly possessed by the same class. It must be taken to hold true also--though with what
relative degree of cogency is not easy to say--of the more adequately developed anthropomorphic
cults, such as appeal to the devout civilized man. The industrial disability entailed by a
popular adherence to one of the higher anthropomorphic cults may be relatively slight, but
it is not to be overlooked. And even these high-class cults of the Western culture do not represent
the last dissolving phase of this human sense of extra-causal propensity. Beyond these the
same animistic sense shows itself also in such attenuations of anthropomorphism as the eighteenth-century
appeal to an order of nature and natural rights, and in their modern representative, the ostensibly
post-Darwinian concept of a meliorative trend in the process of evolution. This animistic explanation
of phenomena is a form of the fallacy which the logicians knew by the name of ignava ratio.
For the purposes of industry or of science it counts as a blunder in the apprehension and valuation
of facts. Apart from its direct industrial consequences, the animistic habit has a certain
significance for economic theory on other grounds. (1) It is a fairly reliable indication of
the presence, and to some extent even of the degree of potency, of certain other archaic traits
that accompany it and that are of substantial economic consequence; and (2) the material consequences
of that code of devout proprieties to which the animistic habit gives rise in the development
of an anthropomorphic cult are of importance both (a) as affecting the community's consumption
of goods and the prevalent canons of taste, as already suggested in an earlier chapter, and
(b) by inducing and conserving a certain habitual recognition of the relation to a superior,
and so stiffening the current sense of status and allegiance.

As regards the point last named (b), that body of habits of thought which makes up the character
of any individual is in some sense an organic whole. A marked variation in a given direction
at any one point carries with it, as its correlative, a concomitant variation in the habitual
expression of life in other directions or other groups of activities. These various habits
of thought, or habitual expressions of life, are all phases of the single life sequence of
the individual; therefore a habit formed in response to a given stimulus will necessarily affect
the character of the response made to other stimuli. A modification of human nature at any
one point is a modification of human nature as a whole. On this ground, and perhaps to a still
greater extent on obscurer grounds that can not be discussed here, there are these concomitant
variations as between the different traits of human nature. So, for instance, barbarian peoples
with a well-developed predatory scheme of life are commonly also possessed of a strong prevailing
animistic habit, a well-formed anthropomorphic cult, and a lively sense of status. On the other
hand, anthropomorphism and the realizing sense of an animistic propensity in material are less
obtrusively present in the life of the peoples at the cultural stages which precede and which
follow the barbarian culture. The sense of status is also feebler; on the whole, in peaceable
communities. It is to be remarked that a lively, but slightly specialized, animistic belief
is to be found in most if not all peoples living in the ante-predatory, savage stage of culture.
The primitive savage takes his animism less seriously than the barbarian or the degenerate
savage. With him it eventuates in fantastic myth-making, rather than in coercive superstition.
The barbarian culture shows sportsmanship, status, and anthropomorphism. There is commonly
observable a like concomitance of variations in the same respects in the individual temperament
of men in the civilized communities of today. Those modern representatives of the predaceous
barbarian temper that make up the sporting element are commonly believers in luck; at least
they have a strong sense of an animistic propensity in things, by force of which they are given
to gambling. So also as regards anthropomorphism in this class. Such of them as give in their
adhesion to some creed commonly attach themselves to one of the naively and consistently anthropomorphic
creeds; there are relatively few sporting men who seek spiritual comfort in the less anthropomorphic
cults, such as the Unitarian or the Universalist.

Closely bound up with this correlation of anthropomorphism and prowess is the fact that anthropomorphic
cults act to conserve, if not to initiate, habits of mind favorable to a regime of status.
As regards this point, it is quite impossible to say where the disciplinary effect of the cult
ends and where the evidence of a concomitance of variations in inherited traits begins. In
their finest development, the predatory temperament, the sense of status, and the anthropomorphic
cult all together belong to the barbarian culture; and something of a mutual causal relation
subsists between the three phenomena as they come into sight in communities on that cultural
level. The way in which they recur in correlation in the habits and attitudes of individuals
and classes today goes far to imply a like causal or organic relation between the same psychological
phenomena considered as traits or habits of the individual. It has appeared at an earlier point
in the discussion that the relation of status, as a feature of social structure, is a consequence
of the predatory habit of life. As regards its line of derivation, it is substantially an elaborated
expression of the predatory attitude. On the other hand, an anthropomorphic cult is a code
of detailed relations of status superimposed upon the concept of a preternatural, inscrutable
propensity in material things. So that, as regards the external facts of its derivation, the
cult may be taken as an outgrowth of archaic man's pervading animistic sense, defined and in
some degree transformed by the predatory habit of life, the result being a personified preternatural
agency, which is by imputation endowed with a full complement of the habits of thought that
characterize the man of the predatory culture.

The grosser psychological features in the case, which have an immediate bearing on economic
theory and are consequently to be taken account of here, are therefore: (a) as has appeared
in an earlier chapter, the predatory, emulative habit of mind here called prowess is but the
barbarian variant of the generically human instinct of workmanship, which has fallen into this
specific form under the guidance of a habit of invidious comparison of persons; (b) the relation
of status is a formal expression of such an invidious comparison duly gauged and graded according
to a sanctioned schedule; (c) an anthropomorphic cult, in the days of its early vigor at least,
is an institution the characteristic element of which is a relation of status between the human
subject as inferior and the personified preternatural agency as superior. With this in mind,
there should be no difficulty in recognizing the intimate relation which subsists between these
three phenomena of human nature and of human life; the relation amounts to an identity in some
of their substantial elements. On the one hand, the system of status and the predatory habit
of life are an expression of the instinct of workmanship as it takes form under a custom of
invidious comparison; on the other hand, the anthropomorphic cult and the habit of devout observances
are an expression of men's animistic sense of a propensity in material things, elaborated under
the guidance of substantially the same general habit of invidious comparison. The two categories--the
emulative habit of life and the habit of devout observances--are therefore to be taken as complementary
elements of the barbarian type of human nature and of its modern barbarian variants. They are
expressions of much the same range of aptitudes, made in response to different sets of stimuli.

Chapter Twelve ~~ Devout Observances

A discoursive rehearsal of certain incidents of modern life will show the organic relation
of the anthropomorphic cults to the barbarian culture and temperament. It will likewise serve
to show how the survival and efficacy of the cults and he prevalence of their schedule of devout
observances are related to the institution of a leisure class and to the springs of action
underlying that institution. Without any intention to commend or to deprecate the practices
to be spoken of under the head of devout observances, or the spiritual and intellectual traits
of which these observances are the expression, the everyday phenomena of current anthropomorphic
cults may be taken up from the point of view of the interest which they have for economic theory.
What can properly be spoken of here are the tangible, external features of devout observances.
The moral, as well as the devotional value of the life of faith lies outside of the scope of
the present inquiry. Of course no question is here entertained as to the truth or beauty of
the creeds on which the cults proceed. And even their remoter economic bearing can not be taken
up here; the subject is too recondite and of too grave import to find a place in so slight
a sketch.

Something has been said in an earlier chapter as to the influence which pecuniary standards
of value exert upon the processes of valuation carried out on other bases, not related to the
pecuniary interest. The relation is not altogether one-sided. The economic standards or canons
of valuation are in their turn influenced by extra-economic standards of value. Our judgments
of the economic bearing of facts are to some extent shaped by the dominant presence of these
weightier interests. There is a point of view, indeed, from which the economic interest is
of weight only as being ancillary to these higher, non-economic interests. For the present
purpose, therefore, some thought must be taken to isolate the economic interest or the economic
hearing of these phenomena of anthropomorphic cults. It takes some effort to divest oneself
of the more serious point of view, and to reach an economic appreciation of these facts, with
as little as may be of the bias due to higher interests extraneous to economic theory. In the
discussion of the sporting temperament, it has appeared that the sense of an animistic propensity
in material things and events is what affords the spiritual basis of the sporting man's gambling
habit. For the economic purpose, this sense of propensity is substantially the same psychological
element as expresses itself, under a variety of forms, in animistic beliefs and anthropomorphic
creeds. So far as concerns those tangible psychological features with which economic theory
has to deal, the gambling spirit which pervades the sporting element shades off by insensible
gradations into that frame of mind which finds gratification in devout observances. As seen
from the point of view of economic theory, the sporting character shades off into the character
of a religious devotee. Where the betting man's animistic sense is helped out by a somewhat
consistent tradition, it has developed into a more or less articulate belief in a preternatural
or hyperphysical agency, with something of an anthropomorphic content. And where this is the
case, there is commonly a perceptible inclination to make terms with the preternatural agency
by some approved method of approach and conciliation. This element of propitiation and cajoling
has much in common with the crasser forms of worship--if not in historical derivation, at least
in actual psychological content. It obviously shades off in unbroken continuity into what is
recognized as superstitious practice and belief, and so asserts its claim to kinship with the
grosser anthropomorphic cults.

The sporting or gambling temperament, then, comprises some of the substantial psychological
elements that go to make a believer in creeds and an observer of devout forms, the chief point
of coincidence being the belief in an inscrutable propensity or a preternatural interposition
in the sequence of events. For the purpose of the gambling practice the belief in preternatural
agency may be, and ordinarily is, less closely formulated, especially as regards the habits
of thought and the scheme of life imputed to the preternatural agent; or, in other words, as
regards his moral character and his purposes in interfering in events. With respect to the
individuality or personality of the agency whose presence as luck, or chance, or hoodoo, or
mascot, etc., he feels and sometimes dreads and endeavors to evade, the sporting man's views
are also less specific, less integrated and differentiated. The basis of his gambling activity
is, in great measure, simply an instinctive sense of the presence of a pervasive extraphysical
and arbitrary force or propensity in things or situations, which is scarcely recognized as
a personal agent. The betting man is not infrequently both a believer in luck, in this naive
sense, and at the same time a pretty staunch adherent of some form of accepted creed. He is
especially prone to accept so much of the creed as concerts the inscrutable power and the arbitrary
habits of the divinity which has won his confidence. In such a case he is possessed of two,
or sometimes more than two, distinguishable phases of animism. Indeed, the complete series
of successive phases of animistic belief is to be found unbroken in the spiritual furniture
of any sporting community. Such a chain of animistic conceptions will comprise the most elementary
form of an instinctive sense of luck and chance and fortuitous necessity at one end of the
series, together with the perfectly developed anthropomorphic divinity at the other end, with
all intervening stages of integration. Coupled with these beliefs in preternatural agency goes
an instinctive shaping of conduct to conform with the surmised requirements of the lucky chance
on the one hand, and a more or less devout submission to the inscrutable decrees of the divinity
on the other hand.

There is a relationship in this respect between the sporting temperament and the temperament
of the delinquent classes; and the two are related to the temperament which inclines to an
anthropomorphic cult. Both the delinquent and the sporting man are on the average more apt
to be adherents of some accredited creed, and are also rather more inclined to devout observances,
than the general average of the community. It is also noticeable that unbelieving members of
these classes show more of a proclivity to become proselytes to some accredited faith than
the average of unbelievers. This fact of observation is avowed by the spokesmen of sports,
especially in apologizing for the more naively predatory athletic sports. Indeed, it is somewhat
insistently claimed as a meritorious feature of sporting life that the habitual participants
in athletic games are in some degree peculiarly given to devout practices. And it is observable
that the cult to which sporting men and the predaceous delinquent classes adhere, or to which
proselytes from these classes commonly attach themselves, is ordinarily not one of the so-called
higher faiths, but a cult which has to do with a thoroughly anthropomorphic divinity. Archaic,
predatory human nature is not satisfied with abstruse conceptions of a dissolving personality
that shades off into the concept of quantitative causal sequence, such as the speculative,
esoteric creeds of Christendom impute to the First Cause, Universal Intelligence, World Soul,
or Spiritual Aspect. As an instance of a cult of the character which the habits of mind of
the athlete and the delinquent require, may be cited that branch of the church militant known
as the Salvation Army. This is to some extent recruited from the lower-class delinquents, and
it appears to comprise also, among its officers especially, a larger proportion of men with
a sporting record than the proportion of such men in the aggregate population of the community.

College athletics afford a case in point. It is contended by exponents of the devout element
in college life--and there seems to be no ground for disputing the claim--that the desirable
athletic material afforded by any student body in this country is at the same time predominantly
religious; or that it is at least given to devout observances to a greater degree than the
average of those students whose interest in athletics and other college sports is less. This
is what might be expected on theoretical grounds. It may be remarked, by the way, that from
one point of view this is felt to reflect credit on the college sporting life, on athletic
games, and on those persons who occupy themselves with these matters. It happens not frequently
that college sporting men devote themselves to religious propaganda, either as a vocation or
as a by-occupation; and it is observable that when this happens they are likely to become propagandists
of some one of the more anthropomorphic cults. In their teaching they are apt to insist chiefly
on the personal relation of status which subsists between an anthropomorphic divinity and the
human subject.

This intimate relation between athletics and devout observance among college men is a fact
of sufficient notoriety; but it has a special feature to which attention has not been called,
although it is obvious enough. The religious zeal which pervades much of the college sporting
element is especially prone to express itself in an unquestioning devoutness and a naive and
complacent submission to an inscrutable Providence. These lay bodies are organized to further
"practical" religion; and as if to enforce the argument and firmly establish the close relationship
between the sporting temperament and the archaic devoutness, these lay religious bodies commonly
devote some appreciable portion of their energies to the furtherance of athletic contests and
similar games of chance and skill. It might even be said that sports of this kind are apprehended
to have some efficacy as a means of grace. They are apparently useful as a means of proselyting,
and as a means of sustaining the devout attitude in converts once made. That is to say, the
games which give exercise to the animistic sense and to the emulative propensity help to form
and to conserve that habit of mind to which the more exoteric cults are congenial. Hence, in
the hands of the lay organizations, these sporting activities come to do duty as a novitiate
or a means of induction into that fuller unfolding of the life of spiritual status which is
the privilege of the full communicant along.

That the exercise of the emulative and lower animistic proclivities are substantially useful
for the devout purpose seems to be placed beyond question by the fact that the priesthood of
many denominations is following the lead of the lay organizations in this respect. Those ecclesiastical
organizations especially which stand nearest the lay organizations in their insistence on practical
religion have gone some way towards adopting these or analogous practices in connection with
the traditional devout observances. So there are "boys' brigades," and other organizations,
under clerical sanction, acting to develop the emulative proclivity and the sense of status
in the youthful members of the congregation. These pseudo-military organizations tend to elaborate
and accentuate the proclivity to emulation and invidious comparison, and so strengthen the
native facility for discerning and approving the relation of personal mastery and subservience.
And a believer is eminently a person who knows how to obey and accept chastisement with good
grace. But the habits of thought which these practices foster and conserve make up but one
half of the substance of the anthropomorphic cults. The other, complementary element of devout
life--the animistic habit of mind--is recruited and conserved by a second range of practices
organized under clerical sanction. These are the class of gambling practices of which the church
bazaar or raffle may be taken as the type. As indicating the degree of legitimacy of these
practices in connection with devout observances proper, it is to be remarked that these raffles,
and the like trivial opportunities for gambling, seem to appeal with more effect to the common
run of the members of religious organizations than they do to persons of a less devout habit
of mind.

All this seems to argue, on the one hand, that the same temperament inclines people to sports
as inclines them to the anthropomorphic cults, and on the other hand that the habituation to
sports, perhaps especially to athletic sports, acts to develop the propensities which find
satisfaction in devout observances. Conversely; it also appears that habituation to these observances
favors the growth of a proclivity for athletic sports and for all games that give play to the
habit of invidious comparison and of the appeal to luck. Substantially the same range of propensities
finds expression in both these directions of the spiritual life. That barbarian human nature
in which the predatory instinct and the animistic standpoint predominate is normally prone
to both. The predatory habit of mind involves an accentuated sense of personal dignity and
of the relative standing of individuals. The social structure in which the predatory habit
has been the dominant factor in the shaping of institutions is a structure based on status.
The pervading norm in the predatory community's scheme of life is the relation of superior
and inferior, noble and base, dominant and subservient persons and classes, master and slave.
The anthropomorphic cults have come down from that stage of industrial development and have
been shaped by the same scheme of economic differentiation--a differentiation into consumer
and producer--and they are pervaded by the same dominant principle of mastery and subservience.
The cults impute to their divinity the habits of thought answering to the stage of economic
differentiation at which the cults took shape. The anthropomorphic divinity is conceived to
be punctilious in all questions of precedence and is prone to an assertion of mastery and an
arbitrary exercise of power--an habitual resort to force as the final arbiter.

In the later and maturer formulations of the anthropomorphic creed this imputed habit of dominance
on the part of a divinity of awful presence and inscrutable power is chastened into "the fatherhood
of God." The spiritual attitude and the aptitudes imputed to the preternatural agent are still
such as belong under the regime of status, but they now assume the patriarchal cast characteristic
of the quasi-peaceable stage of culture. Still it is to be noted that even in this advanced
phase of the cult the observances in which devoutness finds expression consistently aim to
propitiate the divinity by extolling his greatness and glory and by professing subservience
and fealty. The act of propitiation or of worship is designed to appeal to a sense of status
imputed to the inscrutable power that is thus approached. The propitiatory formulas most in
vogue are still such as carry or imply an invidious comparison. A loyal attachment to the person
of an anthropomorphic divinity endowed with such an archaic human nature implies the like archaic
propensities in the devotee. For the purposes of economic theory, the relation of fealty, whether
to a physical or to an extraphysical person, is to be taken as a variant of that personal subservience
which makes up so large a share of the predatory and the quasi-peaceable scheme of life.

The barbarian conception of the divinity, as a warlike chieftain inclined to an overbearing
manner of government, has been greatly softened through the milder manners and the soberer
habits of life that characterize those cultural phases which lie between the early predatory
stage and the present. But even after this chastening of the devout fancy, and the consequent
mitigation of the harsher traits of conduct and character that are currently imputed to the
divinity, there still remains in the popular apprehension of the divine nature and temperament
a very substantial residue of the barbarian conception. So it comes about, for instance, that
in characterizing the divinity and his relations to the process of human life, speakers and
writers are still able to make effective use of similes borrowed from the vocabulary of war
and of the predatory manner of life, as well as of locutions which involve an invidious comparison.
Figures of speech of this import are used with good effect even in addressing the less warlike
modern audiences, made up of adherents of the blander variants of the creed. This effective
use of barbarian epithets and terms of comparison by popular speakers argues that the modern
generation has retained a lively appreciation of the dignity and merit of the barbarian virtues;
and it argues also that there is a degree of congruity between the devout attitude and the
predatory habit of mind. It is only on second thought, if at all, that the devout fancy of
modern worshippers revolts at the imputation of ferocious and vengeful emotions and actions
to the object of their adoration. It is a matter of common observation that sanguinary epithets
applied to the divinity have a high aesthetic and honorific value in the popular apprehension.
That is to say, suggestions which these epithets carry are very acceptable to our unreflecting
apprehension.

The guiding habits of thought of a devout person move on the plane of an archaic scheme of
life which has outlived much of its usefulness for the economic exigencies of the collective
life of today. In so far as the economic organization fits the exigencies of the collective
life of today, it has outlived the regime of status, and has no use and no place for a relation
of personal subserviency. So far as concerns the economic efficiency of the community, the
sentiment of personal fealty, and the general habit of mind of which that sentiment is an expression,
are survivals which cumber the ground and hinder an adequate adjustment of human institutions
to the existing situation. The habit of mind which best lends itself to the purposes of a peaceable,
industrial community, is that matter-of-fact temper which recognizes the value of material
facts simply as opaque items in the mechanical sequence. It is that frame of mind which does
not instinctively impute an animistic propensity to things, nor resort to preternatural intervention
as an explanation of perplexing phenomena, nor depend on an unseen hand to shape the course
of events to human use. To meet the requirements of the highest economic efficiency under modern
conditions, the world process must habitually be apprehended in terms of quantitative, dispassionate
force and sequence.

As seen from the point of view of the later economic exigencies, devoutness is, perhaps in
all cases, to be looked upon as a survival from an earlier phase of associated life--a mark
of arrested spiritual development. Of course it remains true that in a community where the
economic structure is still substantially a system of status; where the attitude of the average
of persons in the community is consequently shaped by and adapted to the relation of personal
dominance and personal subservience; or where for any other reason--of tradition or of inherited
aptitude--the population as a whole is strongly inclined to devout observances; there a devout
habit of mind in any individual, not in excess of the average of the community, must be taken
simply as a detail of the prevalent habit of life. In this light, a devout individual in a
devout community can not be called a case of reversion, since he is abreast of the average
of the community. But as seen from the point of view of the modern industrial situation, exceptional
devoutness--devotional zeal that rises appreciably above the average pitch of devoutness in
the community--may safely be set down as in all cases an atavistic trait.

It is, of course, equally legitimate to consider these phenomena from a different point of
view. They may be appreciated for a different purpose, and the characterization here offered
may be turned about. In speaking from the point of view of the devotional interest, or the
interest of devout taste, it may, with equal cogency, be said that the spiritual attitude bred
in men by the modern industrial life is unfavorable to a free development of the life of faith.
It might fairly be objected to the later development of the industrial process that its discipline
tends to "materialism," to the elimination of filial piety. From the aesthetic point of view,
again, something to a similar purport might be said. But, however legitimate and valuable these
and the like reflections may be for their purpose, they would not be in place in the present
inquiry, which is exclusively concerned with the valuation of these phenomena from the economic
point of view.

The grave economic significance of the anthropomorphic habit of mind and of the addiction to
devout observances must serve as apology for speaking further on a topic which it can not but
be distasteful to discuss at all as an economic phenomenon in a community so devout as ours.
Devout observances are of economic importance as an index of a concomitant variation of temperament,
accompanying the predatory habit of mind and so indicating the presence of industrially disserviceable
traits. They indicate the presence of a mental attitude which has a certain economic value
of its own by virtue of its influence upon the industrial serviceability of the individual.
But they are also of importance more directly, in modifying the economic activities of the
community, especially as regards the distribution and consumption of goods.

The most obvious economic bearing of these observances is seen in the devout consumption of
goods and services. The consumption of ceremonial paraphernalia required by any cult, in the
way of shrines, temples, churches, vestments, sacrifices, sacraments, holiday attire, etc.,
serves no immediate material end. All this material apparatus may, therefore, without implying
deprecation, be broadly characterized as items of conspicuous waste. The like is true in a
general way of the personal service consumed under this head; such as priestly education, priestly
service, pilgrimages, fasts, holidays, household devotions, and the like. At the same time
the observances in the execution of which this consumption takes place serve to extend and
protract the vogue of those habits of thought on which an anthropomorphic cult rests. That
is to say, they further the habits of thought characteristic of the regime of status. They
are in so far an obstruction to the most effective organization of industry under modern circumstances;
and are, in the first instance, antagonistic to the development of economic institutions in
the direction required by the situation of today. For the present purpose, the indirect as
well as the direct effects of this consumption are of the nature of a curtailment of the community's
economic efficiency. In economic theory, then, and considered in its proximate consequences,
the consumption of goods and effort in the service of an anthropomorphic divinity means a lowering
of the vitality of the community. What may be the remoter, indirect, moral effects of this
class of consumption does not admit of a succinct answer, and it is a question which can not
be taken up here.

It will be to the point, however, to note the general economic character of devout consumption,
in comparison with consumption for other purposes. An indication of the range of motives and
purposes from which devout consumption of goods proceeds will help toward an appreciation of
the value both of this consumption itself and of the general habit of mind to which it is congenial.
There is a striking parallelism, if not rather a substantial identity of motive, between the
consumption which goes to the service of an anthropomorphic divinity and that which goes to
the service of a gentleman of leisure chieftain or patriarch--in the upper class of society
during the barbarian culture. Both in the case of the chieftain and in that of the divinity
there are expensive edifices set apart for the behoof of the person served. These edifices,
as well as the properties which supplement them in the service, must not be common in kind
or grade; they always show a large element of conspicuous waste. It may also be noted that
the devout edifices are invariably of an archaic cast in their structure and fittings. So also
the servants, both of the chieftain and of the divinity, must appear in the presence clothed
in garments of a special, ornate character. The characteristic economic feature of this apparel
is a more than ordinarily accentuated conspicuous waste, together with the secondary feature--more
accentuated in the case of the priestly servants than in that of the servants or courtiers
of the barbarian potentate--that this court dress must always be in some degree of an archaic
fashion. Also the garments worn by the lay members of the community when they come into the
presence, should be of a more expensive kind than their everyday apparel. Here, again, the
parallelism between the usage of the chieftain's audience hall and that of the sanctuary is
fairly well marked. In this respect there is required a certain ceremonial "cleanness" of attire,
the essential feature of which, in the economic respect, is that the garments worn on these
occasions should carry as little suggestion as may be of any industrial occupation or of any
habitual addiction to such employments as are of material use.

This requirement of conspicuous waste and of ceremonial cleanness from the traces of industry
extends also to the apparel, and in a less degree to the food, which is consumed on sacred
holidays; that is to say, on days set apart--tabu--for the divinity or for some member of the
lower ranks of the preternatural leisure class. In economic theory, sacred holidays are obviously
to be construed as a season of vicarious leisure performed for the divinity or saint in whose
name the tabu is imposed and to whose good repute the abstention from useful effort on these
days is conceived to inure. The characteristic feature of all such seasons of devout vicarious
leisure is a more or less rigid tabu on all activity that is of human use. In the case of fast-days
the conspicuous abstention from gainful occupations and from all pursuits that (materially)
further human life is further accentuated by compulsory abstinence from such consumption as
would conduce to the comfort or the fullness of life of the consumer.

It may be remarked, parenthetically, that secular holidays are of the same origin, by slightly
remoter derivation. They shade off by degrees from the genuinely sacred days, through an intermediate
class of semi-sacred birthdays of kings and great men who have been in some measure canonized,
to the deliberately invented holiday set apart to further the good repute of some notable event
or some striking fact, to which it is intended to do honor, or the good fame of which is felt
to be in need of repair. The remoter refinement in the employment of vicarious leisure as a
means of augmenting the good repute of a phenomenon or datum is seen at its best in its very
latest application. A day of vicarious leisure has in some communities been set apart as Labor
Day. This observance is designed to augment the prestige of the fact of labor, by the archaic,
predatory method of a compulsory abstention from useful effort. To this datum of labor-in-general
is imputed the good repute attributable to the pecuniary strength put in evidence by abstaining
from labor. Sacred holidays, and holidays generally, are of the nature of a tribute levied
on the body of the people. The tribute is paid in vicarious leisure, and the honorific effect
which emerges is imputed to the person or the fact for whose good repute the holiday has been
instituted. Such a tithe of vicarious leisure is a perquisite of all members of the preternatural
leisure class and is indispensable to their good fame. Un saint qu'on ne chôme pas is indeed
a saint fallen on evil days.

Besides this tithe of vicarious leisure levied on the laity, there are also special classes
of persons--the various grades of priests and hierodules--whose time is wholly set apart for
a similar service. It is not only incumbent on the priestly class to abstain from vulgar labor,
especially so far as it is lucrative or is apprehended to contribute to the temporal well-being
of mankind. The tabu in the case of the priestly class goes farther and adds a refinement in
the form of an injunction against their seeking worldly gain even where it may be had without
debasing application to industry. It is felt to be unworthy of the servant of the divinity,
or rather unworthy the dignity of the divinity whose servant he is, that he should seek material
gain or take thought for temporal matters. "Of all contemptible things a man who pretends to
be a priest of God and is a priest to his own comforts and ambitions is the most contemptible."
There is a line of discrimination, which a cultivated taste in matters of devout observance
finds little difficulty in drawing, between such actions and conduct as conduce to the fullness
of human life and such as conduce to the good fame of the anthropomorphic divinity; and the
activity of the priestly class, in the ideal barbarian scheme, falls wholly on the hither side
of this line. What falls within the range of economics falls below the proper level of solicitude
of the priesthood in its best estate. Such apparent exceptions to this rule as are afforded,
for instance, by some of the medieval orders of monks (the members of which actually labored
to some useful end), scarcely impugn the rule. These outlying orders of the priestly class
are not a sacerdotal element in the full sense of the term. And it is noticeable also that
these doubtfully sacerdotal orders, which countenanced their members in earning a living, fell
into disrepute through offending the sense of propriety in the communities where they existed.

The priest should not put his hand to mechanically productive work; but he should consume in
large measure. But even as regards his consumption it is to be noted that it should take such
forms as do not obviously conduce to his own comfort or fullness of life; it should conform
to the rules governing vicarious consumption, as explained under that head in an earlier chapter.
It is not ordinarily in good form for the priestly class to appear well fed or in hilarious
spirits. Indeed, in many of the more elaborate cults the injunction against other than vicarious
consumption by this class frequently goes so far as to enjoin mortification of the flesh. And
even in those modern denominations which have been organized under the latest formulations
of the creed, in a modern industrial community, it is felt that all levity and avowed zest
in the enjoyment of the good things of this world is alien to the true clerical decorum. Whatever
suggests that these servants of an invisible master are living a life, not of devotion to their
master's good fame, but of application to their own ends, jars harshly on our sensibilities
as something fundamentally and eternally wrong. They are a servant class, although, being servants
of a very exalted master, they rank high in the social scale by virtue of this borrowed light.
Their consumption is vicarious consumption; and since, in the advanced cults, their master
has no need of material gain, their occupation is vicarious leisure in the full sense. "Whether
therefore ye eat, or drink, or whatsoever ye do, do all to the glory of God." It may be added
that so far as the laity is assimilated to the priesthood in the respect that they are conceived
to be servants of the divinity. So far this imputed vicarious character attaches also to the
layman's life. The range of application of this corollary is somewhat wide. It applies especially
to such movements for the reform or rehabilitation of the religious life as are of an austere,
pietistic, ascetic cast--where the human subject is conceived to hold his life by a direct
servile tenure from his spiritual sovereign. That is to say, where the institution of the priesthood
lapses, or where there is an exceptionally lively sense of the immediate and masterful presence
of the divinity in the affairs of life, there the layman is conceived to stand in an immediate
servile relation to the divinity, and his life is construed to be a performance of vicarious
leisure directed to the enhancement of his master's repute. In such cases of reversion there
is a return to the unmediated relation of subservience, as the dominant fact of the devout
attitude. The emphasis is thereby throw on an austere and discomforting vicarious leisure,
to the neglect of conspicuous consumption as a means of grace.

A doubt will present itself as to the full legitimacy of this characterization of the sacerdotal
scheme of life, on the ground that a considerable proportion of the modern priesthood departs
from the scheme in many details. The scheme does not hold good for the clergy of those denominations
which have in some measure diverged from the old established schedule of beliefs or observances.
These take thought, at least ostensibly or permissively, for the temporal welfare of the laity,
as well as for their own. Their manner of life, not only in the privacy of their own household,
but often even before the public, does not differ in an extreme degree from that of secular-minded
persons, either in its ostensible austerity or in the archaism of its apparatus. This is truest
for those denominations that have wandered the farthest. To this objection it is to be said
that we have here to do not with a discrepancy in the theory of sacerdotal life, but with an
imperfect conformity to the scheme on the part of this body of clergy. They are but a partial
and imperfect representative of the priesthood, and must not be taken as exhibiting the sacerdotal
scheme of life in an authentic and competent manner. The clergy of the sects and denominations
might be characterized as a half-caste priesthood, or a priesthood in process of becoming or
of reconstitution. Such a priesthood may be expected to show the characteristics of the sacerdotal
office only as blended and obscured with alien motives and traditions, due to the disturbing
presence of other factors than those of animism and status in the purposes of the organizations
to which this non-conforming fraction of the priesthood belongs.

Appeal may be taken direct to the taste of any person with a discriminating and cultivated
sense of the sacerdotal proprieties, or to the prevalent sense of what constitutes clerical
decorum in any community at all accustomed to think or to pass criticism on what a clergyman
may or may not do without blame. Even in the most extremely secularized denominations, there
is some sense of a distinction that should be observed between the sacerdotal and the lay scheme
of life. There is no person of sensibility but feels that where the members of this denominational
or sectarian clergy depart from traditional usage, in the direction of a less austere or less
archaic demeanor and apparel, they are departing from the ideal of priestly decorum. There
is probably no community and no sect within the range of the Western culture in which the bounds
of permissible indulgence are not drawn appreciably closer for the incumbent of the priestly
office than for the common layman. If the priest's own sense of sacerdotal propriety does not
effectually impose a limit, the prevalent sense of the proprieties on the part of the community
will commonly assert itself so obtrusively as to lead to his conformity or his retirement from
office.

Few if any members of any body of clergy, it may be added, would avowedly seek an increase
of salary for gain's sake; and if such avowal were openly made by a clergyman, it would be
found obnoxious to the sense of propriety among his congregation. It may also be noted in this
connection that no one but the scoffers and the very obtuse are not instinctively grieved inwardly
at a jest from the pulpit; and that there are none whose respect for their pastor does not
suffer through any mark of levity on his part in any conjuncture of life, except it be levity
of a palpably histrionic kind--a constrained unbending of dignity. The diction proper to the
sanctuary and to the priestly office should also carry little if any suggestion of effective
everyday life, and should not draw upon the vocabulary of modern trade or industry. Likewise,
one's sense of the proprieties is readily offended by too detailed and intimate a handling
of industrial and other purely human questions at the hands of the clergy. There is a certain
level of generality below which a cultivated sense of the proprieties in homiletical discourse
will not permit a well-bred clergyman to decline in his discussion of temporal interests. These
matters that are of human and secular consequence simply, should properly be handled with such
a degree of generality and aloofness as may imply that the speaker represents a master whose
interest in secular affairs goes only so far as to permissively countenance them.

It is further to be noticed that the non-conforming sects and variants whose priesthood is
here under discussion, vary among themselves in the degree of their conformity to the ideal
scheme of sacerdotal life. In a general way it will be found that the divergence in this respect
is widest in the case of the relatively young denominations, and especially in the case of
such of the newer denominations as have chiefly a lower middle-class constituency. They commonly
show a large admixture of humanitarian, philanthropic, or other motives which can not be classed
as expressions of the devotional attitude; such as the desire of learning or of conviviality,
which enter largely into the effective interest shown by members of these organizations. The
non-conforming or sectarian movements have commonly proceeded from a mixture of motives, some
of which are at variance with that sense of status on which the priestly office rests. Sometimes,
indeed, the motive has been in good part a revulsion against a system of status. Where this
is the case the institution of the priesthood has broken down in the transition, at least partially.
The spokesman of such an organization is at the outset a servant and representative of the
organization, rather than a member of a special priestly class and the spokesman of a divine
master. And it is only by a process of gradual specialization that, in succeeding generations,
this spokesman regains the position of priest, with a full investiture of sacerdotal authority,
and with its accompanying austere, archaic and vicarious manner of life. The like is true of
the breakdown and redintegration of devout ritual after such a revulsion. The priestly office,
the scheme of sacerdotal life, and the schedule of devout observances are rehabilitated only
gradually, insensibly, and with more or less variation in details, as a persistent human sense
of devout propriety reasserts its primacy in questions touching the interest in the preternatural--and
it may be added, as the organization increases in wealth, and so acquires more of the point
of view and the habits of thought of a leisure class.

Beyond the priestly class, and ranged in an ascending hierarchy, ordinarily comes a superhuman
vicarious leisure class of saints, angels, etc.--or their equivalents in the ethnic cults.
These rise in grade, one above another, according to elaborate system of status. The principle
of status runs through the entire hierarchical system, both visible and invisible. The good
fame of these several orders of the supernatural hierarchy also commonly requires a certain
tribute of vicarious consumption and vicarious leisure. In many cases they accordingly have
devoted to their service sub-orders of attendants or dependents who perform a vicarious leisure
for them, after much the same fashion as was found in an earlier chapter to be true of the
dependent leisure class under the patriarchal system.

It may not appear without reflection how these devout observances and the peculiarity of temperament
which they imply, or the consumption of goods and services which is comprised in the cult,
stand related to the leisure class of a modern community, or to the economic motives of which
that class is the exponent in the modern scheme of life to this end a summary review of certain
facts bearing on this relation will be useful. It appears from an earlier passage in this discussion
that for the purpose of the collective life of today, especially so far as concerns the industrial
efficiency of the modern community, the characteristic traits of the devout temperament are
a hindrance rather than a help. It should accordingly be found that the modern industrial life
tends selectively to eliminate these traits of human nature from the spiritual constitution
of the classes that are immediately engaged in the industrial process. It should hold true,
approximately, that devoutness is declining or tending to obsolescence among the members of
what may be called the effective industrial community. At the same time it should appear that
this aptitude or habit survives in appreciably greater vigor among those classes which do not
immediately or primarily enter into the community's life process as an industrial factor.

It has already been pointed out that these latter classes, which live by, rather than in, the
industrial process, are roughly comprised under two categories (1) the leisure class proper,
which is shielded from the stress of the economic situation; and (2) the indigent classes,
including the lower-class delinquents, which are unduly exposed to the stress. In the case
of the former class an archaic habit of mind persists because no effectual economic pressure
constrains this class to an adaptation of its habits of thought to the changing situation;
while in the latter the reason for a failure to adjust their habits of thought to the altered
requirements of industrial efficiency is innutrition, absence of such surplus of energy as
is needed in order to make the adjustment with facility, together with a lack of opportunity
to acquire and become habituated to the modern point of view. The trend of the selective process
runs in much the same direction in both cases.

From the point of view which the modern industrial life inculcates, phenomena are habitually
subsumed under the quantitative relation of mechanical sequence. The indigent classes not only
fall short of the modicum of leisure necessary in order to appropriate and assimilate the more
recent generalizations of science which this point of view involves, but they also ordinarily
stand in such a relation of personal dependence or subservience to their pecuniary superiors
as materially to retard their emancipation from habits of thought proper to the regime of status.
The result is that these classes in some measure retain that general habit of mind the chief
expression of which is a strong sense of personal status, and of which devoutness is one feature.

In the older communities of the European culture, the hereditary leisure class, together with
the mass of the indigent population, are given to devout observances in an appreciably higher
degree than the average of the industrious middle class, wherever a considerable class of the
latter character exists. But in some of these countries, the two categories of conservative
humanity named above comprise virtually the whole population. Where these two classes greatly
preponderate, their bent shapes popular sentiment to such an extent as to bear down any possible
divergent tendency in the inconsiderable middle class, and imposes a devout attitude upon the
whole community.

This must, of course, not be construed to say that such communities or such classes as are
exceptionally prone to devout observances tend to conform in any exceptional degree to the
specifications of any code of morals that we may be accustomed to associate with this or that
confession of faith. A large measure of the devout habit of mind need not carry with it a strict
observance of the injunctions of the Decalogue or of the common law. Indeed, it is becoming
somewhat of a commonplace with observers of criminal life in European communities that the
criminal and dissolute classes are, if anything, rather more devout, and more naively so, than
the average of the population. It is among those who constitute the pecuniary middle class
and the body of law-abiding citizens that a relative exemption from the devotional attitude
is to be looked for. Those who best appreciate the merits of the higher creeds and observances
would object to all this and say that the devoutness of the low-class delinquents is a spurious,
or at the best a superstitious devoutness; and the point is no doubt well taken and goes directly
and cogently to the purpose intended. But for the purpose of the present inquiry these extra-economic,
extra-psychological distinctions must perforce be neglected, however valid and however decisive
they may be for the purpose for which they are made.

What has actually taken place with regard to class emancipation from the habit of devout observance
is shown by the latter-day complaint of the clergy--that the churches are losing the sympathy
of the artisan classes, and are losing their hold upon them. At the same time it is currently
believed that the middle class, commonly so called, is also falling away in the cordiality
of its support of the church, especially so far as regards the adult male portion of that class.
These are currently recognized phenomena, and it might seem that a simple reference to these
facts should sufficiently substantiate the general position outlined. Such an appeal to the
general phenomena of popular church attendance and church membership may be sufficiently convincing
for the proposition here advanced. But it will still be to the purpose to trace in some detail
the course of events and the particular forces which have wrought this change in the spiritual
attitude of the more advanced industrial communities of today. It will serve to illustrate
the manner in which economic causes work towards a secularization of men's habits of thought.
In this respect the American community should afford an exceptionally convincing illustration,
since this community has been the least trammelled by external circumstances of any equally
important industrial aggregate.

After making due allowance for exceptions and sporadic departures from the normal, the situation
here at the present time may be summarized quite briefly. As a general rule the classes that
are low in economic efficiency, or in intelligence, or both, are peculiarly devout--as, for
instance, the Negro population of the South, much of the lower-class foreign population, much
of the rural population, especially in those sections which are backward in education, in the
stage of development of their industry, or in respect of their industrial contact with the
rest of the community. So also such fragments as we possess of a specialized or hereditary
indigent class, or of a segregated criminal or dissolute class; although among these latter
the devout habit of mind is apt to take the form of a naive animistic belief in luck and in
the efficacy of shamanistic practices perhaps more frequently than it takes the form of a formal
adherence to any accredited creed. The artisan class, on the other hand, is notoriously falling
away from the accredited anthropomorphic creeds and from all devout observances. This class
is in an especial degree exposed to the characteristic intellectual and spiritual stress of
modern organized industry, which requires a constant recognition of the undisguised phenomena
of impersonal, matter-of-fact sequence and an unreserved conformity to the law of cause and
effect. This class is at the same time not underfed nor over-worked to such an extent as to
leave no margin of energy for the work of adaptation.

The case of the lower or doubtful leisure class in America--the middle class commonly so called--is
somewhat peculiar. It differs in respect of its devotional life from its European counterpart,
but it differs in degree and method rather than in substance. The churches still have the pecuniary
support of this class; although the creeds to which the class adheres with the greatest facility
are relatively poor in anthropomorphic content. At the same time the effective middle-class
congregation tends, in many cases, more or less remotely perhaps, to become a congregation
of women and minors. There is an appreciable lack of devotional fervor among the adult males
of the middle class, although to a considerable extent there survives among them a certain
complacent, reputable assent to the outlines of the accredited creed under which they were
born. Their everyday life is carried on in a more or less close contact with the industrial
process.

This peculiar sexual differentiation, which tends to delegate devout observances to the women
and their children, is due, at least in part, to the fact that the middle-class women are in
great measure a (vicarious) leisure class. The same is true in a less degree of the women of
the lower, artisan classes. They live under a regime of status handed down from an earlier
stage of industrial development, and thereby they preserve a frame of mind and habits of thought
which incline them to an archaic view of things generally. At the same time they stand in no
such direct organic relation to the industrial process at large as would tend strongly to break
down those habits of thought which, for the modern industrial purpose, are obsolete. That is
to say, the peculiar devoutness of women is a particular expression of that conservatism which
the women of civilized communities owe, in great measure, to their economic position. For the
modern man the patriarchal relation of status is by no means the dominant feature of life;
but for the women on the other hand, and for the upper middle-class women especially, confined
as they are by prescription and by economic circumstances to their "domestic sphere," this
relation is the most real and most formative factor of life. Hence a habit of mind favorable
to devout observances and to the interpretation of the facts of life generally in terms of
personal status. The logic, and the logical processes, of her everyday domestic life are carried
over into the realm of the supernatural, and the woman finds herself at home and content in
a range of ideas which to the man are in great measure alien and imbecile.

Still the men of this class are also not devoid of piety, although it is commonly not piety
of an aggressive or exuberant kind. The men of the upper middle class commonly take a more
complacent attitude towards devout observances than the men of the artisan class. This may
perhaps be explained in part by saying that what is true of the women of the class is true
to a less extent also of the men. They are to an appreciable extent a sheltered class; and
the patriarchal relation of status which still persists in their conjugal life and in their
habitual use of servants, may also act to conserve an archaic habit of mind and may exercise
a retarding influence upon the process of secularization which their habits of thought are
undergoing. The relations of the American middle-class man to the economic community, however,
are usually pretty close and exacting; although it may be remarked, by the way and in qualification,
that their economic activity frequently also partakes in some degree of the patriarchal or
quasi-predatory character. The occupations which are in good repute among this class and which
have most to do with shaping the class habits of thought, are the pecuniary occupations which
have been spoken of in a similar connection in an earlier chapter. There is a good deal of
the relation of arbitrary command and submission, and not a little of shrewd practice, remotely
akin to predatory fraud. All this belongs on the plane of life of the predatory barbarian,
to whom a devotional attitude is habitual. And in addition to this, the devout observances
also commend themselves to this class on the ground of reputability. But this latter incentive
to piety deserves treatment by itself and will be spoken of presently. There is no hereditary
leisure class of any consequence in the American community, except in the South. This Southern
leisure class is somewhat given to devout observances; more so than any class of corresponding
pecuniary standing in other parts of the country. It is also well known that the creeds of
the South are of a more old-fashioned cast than their counterparts in the North. Corresponding
to this more archaic devotional life of the South is the lower industrial development of that
section. The industrial organization of the South is at present, and especially it has been
until quite recently, of a more primitive character than that of the American community taken
as a whole. It approaches nearer to handicraft, in the paucity and rudeness of its mechanical
appliances, and there is more of the element of mastery and subservience. It may also be noted
that, owing to the peculiar economic circumstances of this section, the greater devoutness
of the Southern population, both white and black, is correlated with a scheme of life which
in many ways recalls the barbarian stages of industrial development. Among this population
offenses of an archaic character also are and have been relatively more prevalent and are less
deprecated than they are elsewhere; as, for example, duels, brawls, feuds, drunkenness, horse-racing,
cock-fighting, gambling, male sexual incontinence (evidenced by the considerable number of
mulattoes). There is also a livelier sense of honor--an expression of sportsmanship and a derivative
of predatory life.

As regards the wealthier class of the North, the American leisure class in the best sense of
the term, it is, to begin with, scarcely possible to speak of an hereditary devotional attitude.
This class is of too recent growth to be possessed of a well-formed transmitted habit in this
respect, or even of a special home-grown tradition. Still, it may be noted in passing that
there is a perceptible tendency among this class to give in at least a nominal, and apparently
something of a real, adherence to some one of the accredited creeds. Also, weddings, funerals,
and the like honorific events among this class are pretty uniformly solemnized with some especial
degree of religious circumstance. It is impossible to say how far this adherence to a creed
is a bona fide reversion to a devout habit of mind, and how far it is to be classed as a case
of protective mimicry assumed for the purpose of an outward assimilation to canons of reputability
borrowed from foreign ideals. Something of a substantial devotional propensity seems to be
present, to judge especially by the somewhat peculiar degree of ritualistic observance which
is in process of development in the upper-class cults. There is a tendency perceptible among
the upper-class worshippers to affiliate themselves with those cults which lay relatively great
stress on ceremonial and on the spectacular accessories of worship; and in the churches in
which an upper-class membership predominates, there is at the same time a tendency to accentuate
the ritualistic, at the cost of the intellectual features in the service and in the apparatus
of the devout observances. This holds true even where the church in question belongs to a denomination
with a relatively slight general development of ritual and paraphernalia. This peculiar development
of the ritualistic element is no doubt due in part to a predilection for conspicuously wasteful
spectacles, but it probably also in part indicates something of the devotional attitude of
the worshippers. So far as the latter is true, it indicates a relatively archaic form of the
devotional habit. The predominance of spectacular effects in devout observances is noticeable
in all devout communities at a relatively primitive stage of culture and with a slight intellectual
development. It is especially characteristic of the barbarian culture. Here there is pretty
uniformly present in the devout observances a direct appeal to the emotions through all the
avenues of sense. And a tendency to return to this naive, sensational method of appeal is unmistakable
in the upper-class churches of today. It is perceptible in a less degree in the cults which
claim the allegiance of the lower leisure class and of the middle classes. There is a reversion
to the use of colored lights and brilliant spectacles, a freer use of symbols, orchestral music
and incense, and one may even detect in "processionals" and "recessionals" and in richly varied
genuflexional evolutions, an incipient reversion to so antique an accessory of worship as the
sacred dance. This reversion to spectacular observances is not confined to the upper-class
cults, although it finds its best exemplification and its highest accentuation in the higher
pecuniary and social altitudes. The cults of the lower-class devout portion of the community,
such as the Southern Negroes and the backward foreign elements of the population, of course
also show a strong inclination to ritual, symbolism, and spectacular effects; as might be expected
from the antecedents and the cultural level of those classes. With these classes the prevalence
of ritual and anthropomorphism are not so much a matter of reversion as of continued development
out of the past. But the use of ritual and related features of devotion are also spreading
in other directions. In the early days of the American community the prevailing denominations
started out with a ritual and paraphernalia of an austere simplicity; but it is a matter familiar
to every one that in the course of time these denominations have, in a varying degree, adopted
much of the spectacular elements which they once renounced. In a general way, this development
has gone hand in hand with the growth of the wealth and the ease of life of the worshippers
and has reached its fullest expression among those classes which grade highest in wealth and
repute.

The causes to which this pecuniary stratification of devoutness is due have already been indicated
in a general way in speaking of class differences in habits of thought. Class differences as
regards devoutness are but a special expression of a generic fact. The lax allegiance of the
lower middle class, or what may broadly be called the failure of filial piety among this class,
is chiefly perceptible among the town populations engaged in the mechanical industries. In
a general way, one does not, at the present time, look for a blameless filial piety among those
classes whose employment approaches that of the engineer and the mechanician. These mechanical
employments are in a degree a modern fact. The handicraftsmen of earlier times, who served
an industrial end of a character similar to that now served by the mechanician, were not similarly
refractory under the discipline of devoutness. The habitual activity of the men engaged in
these branches of industry has greatly changed, as regards its intellectual discipline, since
the modern industrial processes have come into vogue; and the discipline to which the mechanician
is exposed in his daily employment affects the methods and standards of his thinking also on
topics which lie outside his everyday work. Familiarity with the highly organized and highly
impersonal industrial processes of the present acts to derange the animistic habits of thought.
The workman's office is becoming more and more exclusively that of discretion and supervision
in a process of mechanical, dispassionate sequences. So long as the individual is the chief
and typical prime mover in the process; so long as the obtrusive feature of the industrial
process is the dexterity and force of the individual handicraftsman; so long the habit of interpreting
phenomena in terms of personal motive and propensity suffers no such considerable and consistent
derangement through facts as to lead to its elimination. But under the later developed industrial
processes, when the prime movers and the contrivances through which they work are of an impersonal,
non-individual character, the grounds of generalization habitually present in the workman's
mind and the point of view from which he habitually apprehends phenomena is an enforced cognizance
of matter-of-fact sequence. The result, so far as concerts the workman's life of faith, is
a proclivity to undevout scepticism.

It appears, then, that the devout habit of mind attains its best development under a relatively
archaic culture; the term "devout" being of course here used in its anthropological sense simply,
and not as implying anything with respect to the spiritual attitude so characterized, beyond
the fact of a proneness to devout observances. It appears also that this devout attitude marks
a type of human nature which is more in consonance with the predatory mode of life than with
the later-developed, more consistently and organically industrial life process of the community.
It is in large measure an expression of the archaic habitual sense of personal status--the
relation of mastery and subservience--and it therefore fits into the industrial scheme of the
predatory and the quasi-peaceable culture, but does not fit into the industrial scheme of the
present. It also appears that this habit persists with greatest tenacity among those classes
in the modern communities whose everyday life is most remote from the mechanical processes
of industry and which are the most conservative also in other respects; while for those classes
that are habitually in immediate contact with modern industrial processes, and whose habits
of thought are therefore exposed to the constraining force of technological necessities, that
animistic interpretation of phenomena and that respect of persons on which devout observance
proceeds are in process of obsolescence. And also--as bearing especially on the present discussion--it
appears that the devout habit to some extent progressively gains in scope and elaboration among
those classes in the modern communities to whom wealth and leisure accrue in the most pronounced
degree. In this as in other relations, the institution of a leisure class acts to conserve,
and even to rehabilitate, that archaic type of human nature and those elements of the archaic
culture which the industrial evolution of society in its later stages acts to eliminate.

Chapter Thirteen ~~ Survivals of the Non-Invidious Interests

In an increasing proportion as time goes on, the anthropomorphic cult, with its code of devout
observations, suffers a progressive disintegration through the stress of economic exigencies
and the decay of the system of status. As this disintegration proceeds, there come to be associated
and blended with the devout attitude certain other motives and impulses that are not always
of an anthropomorphic origin, nor traceable to the habit of personal subservience. Not all
of these subsidiary impulses that blend with the habit of devoutness in the later devotional
life are altogether congruous with the devout attitude or with the anthropomorphic apprehension
of the sequence of phenomena. The origin being not the same, their action upon the scheme of
devout life is also not in the same direction. In many ways they traverse the underlying norm
of subservience or vicarious life to which the code of devout observations and the ecclesiastical
and sacerdotal institutions are to be traced as their substantial basis. Through the presence
of these alien motives the social and industrial regime of status gradually disintegrates,
and the canon of personal subservience loses the support derived from an unbroken tradition.
Extraneous habits and proclivities encroach upon the field of action occupied by this canon,
and it presently comes about that the ecclesiastical and sacerdotal structures are partially
converted to other uses, in some measure alien to the purposes of the scheme of devout life
as it stood in the days of the most vigorous and characteristic development of the priesthood.

Among these alien motives which affect the devout scheme in its later growth, may be mentioned
the motives of charity and of social good-fellowship, or conviviality; or, in more general
terms, the various expressions of the sense of human solidarity and sympathy. It may be added
that these extraneous uses of the ecclesiastical structure contribute materially to its survival
in name and form even among people who may be ready to give up the substance of it. A still
more characteristic and more pervasive alien element in the motives which have gone to formally
uphold the scheme of devout life is that non-reverent sense of aesthetic congruity with the
environment, which is left as a residue of the latter-day act of worship after elimination
of its anthropomorphic content. This has done good service for the maintenance of the sacerdotal
institution through blending with the motive of subservience. This sense of impulse of aesthetic
congruity is not primarily of an economic character, but it has a considerable indirect effect
in shaping the habit of mind of the individual for economic purposes in the later stages of
industrial development; its most perceptible effect in this regard goes in the direction of
mitigating the somewhat pronounced self-regarding bias that has been transmitted by tradition
from the earlier, more competent phases of the regime of status. The economic bearing of this
impulse is therefore seen to transverse that of the devout attitude; the former goes to qualify,
if not eliminate, the self-regarding bias, through sublation of the antithesis or antagonism
of self and not-self; while the latter, being and expression of the sense of personal subservience
and mastery, goes to accentuate this antithesis and to insist upon the divergence between the
self-regarding interest and the interests of the generically human life process.

This non-invidious residue of the religious life--the sense of communion with the environment,
or with the generic life process--as well as the impulse of charity or of sociability, act
in a pervasive way to shape men's habits of thought for the economic purpose. But the action
of all this class of proclivities is somewhat vague, and their effects are difficult to trace
in detail. So much seems clear, however, as that the action of this entire class of motives
or aptitudes tends in a direction contrary to the underlying principles of the institution
of the leisure class as already formulated. The basis of that institution, as well as of the
anthropomorphic cults associated with it in the cultural development, is the habit of invidious
comparison; and this habit is incongruous with the exercise of the aptitudes now in question.
The substantial canons of the leisure-class scheme of life are a conspicuous waste of time
and substance and a withdrawal from the industrial process; while the particular aptitudes
here in question assert themselves, on the economic side, in a deprecation of waste and of
a futile manner of life, and in an impulse to participation in or identification with the life
process, whether it be on the economic side or in any other of its phases or aspects.

It is plain that these aptitudes and habits of life to which they give rise where circumstances
favor their expression, or where they assert themselves in a dominant way, run counter to the
leisure-class scheme of life; but it is not clear that life under the leisure-class scheme,
as seen in the later stages of its development, tends consistently to the repression of these
aptitudes or to exemption from the habits of thought in which they express themselves. The
positive discipline of the leisure-class scheme of life goes pretty much all the other way.
In its positive discipline, by prescription and by selective elimination, the leisure-class
scheme favors the all-pervading and all-dominating primacy of the canons of waste and invidious
comparison at every conjuncture of life. But in its negative effects the tendency of the leisure-class
discipline is not so unequivocally true to the fundamental canons of the scheme. In its regulation
of human activity for the purpose of pecuniary decency the leisure-class canon insists on withdrawal
from the industrial process. That is to say, it inhibits activity in the directions in which
the impecunious members of the community habitually put forth their efforts. Especially in
the case of women, and more particularly as regards the upper-class and upper-middle-class
women of advanced industrial communities, this inhibition goes so far as to insist on withdrawal
even from the emulative process of accumulation by the quasi-predator methods of the pecuniary
occupations.

The pecuniary or the leisure-class culture, which set out as an emulative variant of the impulse
of workmanship, is in its latest development beginning to neutralize its own ground, by eliminating
the habit of invidious comparison in respect of efficiency, or even of pecuniary standing.
On the other hand, the fact that members of the leisure class, both men and women, are to some
extent exempt from the necessity of finding a livelihood in a competitive struggle with their
fellows, makes it possible for members of this class not only to survive, but even, within
bounds, to follow their bent in case they are not gifted with the aptitudes which make for
success in the competitive struggle. That is to say, in the latest and fullest development
of the institution, the livelihood of members of this class does not depend on the possession
and the unremitting exercise of those aptitudes are therefore greater in the higher grades
of the leisure class than in the general average of a population living under the competitive
system.

In an earlier chapter, in discussing the conditions of survival of archaic traits, it has appeared
that the peculiar position of the leisure class affords exceptionally favorable chances for
the survival of traits which characterize the type of human nature proper to an earlier and
obsolete cultural stage. The class is sheltered from the stress of economic exigencies, and
is in this sense withdrawn from the rude impact of forces which make for adaptation to the
economic situation. The survival in the leisure class, and under the leisure-class scheme of
life, of traits and types that are reminiscent of the predatory culture has already been discussed.
These aptitudes and habits have an exceptionally favorable chance of survival under the leisure-class
regime. Not only does the sheltered pecuniary position of the leisure class afford a situation
favorable to the survival of such individuals as are not gifted with the complement of aptitudes
required for serviceability in the modern industrial process; but the leisure-class canons
of reputability at the same time enjoin the conspicuous exercise of certain predatory aptitudes.
The employments in which the predatory aptitudes find exercise serve as an evidence of wealth,
birth, and withdrawal from the industrial process. The survival of the predatory traits under
the leisure-class culture is furthered both negatively, through the industrial exemption of
the class, and positively, through the sanction of the leisure-class canons of decency.

With respect to the survival of traits characteristic of the ante-predatory savage culture
the case is in some degree different. The sheltered position of the leisure class favors the
survival also of these traits; but the exercise of the aptitudes for peace and good-will does
not have the affirmative sanction of the code of proprieties. Individuals gifted with a temperament
that is reminiscent of the ante-predatory culture are placed at something of an advantage within
the leisure class, as compared with similarly gifted individuals outside the class, in that
they are not under a pecuniary necessity to thwart these aptitudes that make for a non-competitive
life; but such individuals are still exposed to something of a moral constraint which urges
them to disregard these inclinations, in that the code of proprieties enjoins upon them habits
of life based on the predatory aptitudes. So long as the system of status remains intact, and
so long as the leisure class has other lines of non-industrial activity to take to than obvious
killing of time in aimless and wasteful fatigation, so long no considerable departure from
the leisure-class scheme of reputable life is to be looked for. The occurrence of non-predatory
temperament with the class at that stage is to be looked upon as a case of sporadic reversion.
But the reputable non-industrial outlets for the human propensity to action presently fail,
through the advance of economic development, the disappearance of large game, the decline of
war, the obsolescence of proprietary government, and the decay of the priestly office. When
this happens, the situation begins to change. Human life must seek expression in one direction
if it may not in another; and if the predatory outlet fails, relief is sought elsewhere.

As indicated above, the exemption from pecuniary stress has been carried farther in the case
of the leisure-class women of the advanced industrial communities than in that of any other
considerable group of persons. The women may therefore be expected to show a more pronounced
reversion to a non-invidious temperament than the men. But there is also among men of the leisure
class a perceptible increase in the range and scope of activities that proceed from aptitudes
which are not to be classed as self-regarding, and the end of which is not an invidious distinction.
So, for instance, the greater number of men who have to do with industry in the way of pecuniarily
managing an enterprise take some interest and some pride in seeing that the work is well done
and is industrially effective, and this even apart from the profit which may result from any
improvement of this kind. The efforts of commercial clubs and manufacturers' organizations
in this direction of non-invidious advancement of industrial efficiency are also well know.

The tendency to some other than an invidious purpose in life has worked out in a multitude
of organizations, the purpose of which is some work of charity or of social amelioration. These
organizations are often of a quasi-religious or pseudo-religious character, and are participated
in by both men and women. Examples will present themselves in abundance on reflection, but
for the purpose of indicating the range of the propensities in question and of characterizing
them, some of the more obvious concrete cases may be cited.

It is of course not intended to say that these efforts proceed entirely from other motives
than those of a self-regarding kind. What can be claimed is that other motives are present
in the common run of cases, and that the perceptibly greater prevalence of effort of this kind
under the circumstances of the modern industrial life than under the unbroken regime of the
principle of status, indicates the presence in modern life of an effective scepticism with
respect to the full legitimacy of an emulative scheme of life. It is a matter of sufficient
notoriety to have become a commonplace jest that extraneous motives are commonly present among
the incentives to this class of work--motives of a self-regarding kind, and especially the
motive of an invidious distinction. To such an extent is this true, that many ostensible works
of disinterested public spirit are no doubt initiated and carried on with a view primarily
to the enhance repute or even to the pecuniary gain, of their promoters. In the case of some
considerable groups of organizations or establishments of this kind the invidious motive is
apparently the dominant motive both with the initiators of the work and with their supporters.
This last remark would hold true especially with respect to such works as lend distinction
to their doer through large and conspicuous expenditure; as, for example, the foundation of
a university or of a public library or museum; but it is also, and perhaps equally, true of
the more commonplace work of participation in such organizations. These serve to authenticate
the pecuniary reputability of their members, as well as gratefully to keep them in mind of
their superior status by pointing the contrast between themselves and the lower-lying humanity
in whom the work of amelioration is to be wrought; as, for example, the university settlement,
which now has some vogue. But after all allowances and deductions have been made, there is
left some remainder of motives of a non-emulative kind. The fact itself that distinction or
a decent good fame is sought by this method is evidence of a prevalent sense of the legitimacy,
and of the presumptive effectual presence, of a non-emulative, non-invidious interest, as a
consistent factor in the habits of thought of modern communities.

In all this latter-day range of leisure-class activities that proceed on the basis of a non-invidious
and non-religious interest, it is to be noted that the women participate more actively and
more persistently than the men--except, of course, in the case of such works as require a large
expenditure of means. The dependent pecuniary position of the women disables them for work
requiring large expenditure. As regards the general range of ameliorative work, the members
of the priesthood or clergy of the less naively devout sects, or the secularized denominations,
are associated with the class of women. This is as the theory would have it. In other economic
relations, also, this clergy stands in a somewhat equivocal position between the class of women
and that of the men engaged in economic pursuits. By tradition and by the prevalent sense of
the proprieties, both the clergy and the women of the well-to-do classes are placed in the
position of a vicarious leisure class; with both classes the characteristic relation which
goes to form the habits of thought of the class is a relation of subservience--that is to say,
an economic relation conceived in personal terms; in both classes there is consequently perceptible
a special proneness to construe phenomena in terms of personal relation rather than of causal
sequence; both classes are so inhibited by the canons of decency from the ceremonially unclean
processes of the lucrative or productive occupations as to make participation in the industrial
life process of today a moral impossibility for them. The result of this ceremonial exclusion
from productive effort of the vulgar sort is to draft a relatively large share of the energies
of the modern feminine and priestly classes into the service of other interests than the self-regarding
one. The code leaves no alternative direction in which the impulse to purposeful action may
find expression. The effect of a consistent inhibition on industrially useful activity in the
case of the leisure-class women shows itself in a restless assertion of the impulse to workmanship
in other directions than that of business activity. As has been noticed already, the everyday
life of the well-to-do women and the clergy contains a larger element of status than that of
the average of the men, especially than that of the men engaged in the modern industrial occupations
proper. Hence the devout attitude survives in a better state of preservation among these classes
than among the common run of men in the modern communities. Hence an appreciable share of the
energy which seeks expression in a non-lucrative employment among these members of the vicarious
leisure classes may be expected to eventuate in devout observances and works of piety. Hence,
in part, the excess of the devout proclivity in women, spoken of in the last chapter. But it
is more to the present point to note the effect of this proclivity in shaping the action and
coloring the purposes of the non-lucrative movements and organizations here under discussion.
Where this devout coloring is present it lowers the immediate efficiency of the organizations
for any economic end to which their efforts may be directed. Many organizations, charitable
and ameliorative, divide their attention between the devotional and the secular well-being
of the people whose interests they aim to further. It can scarcely be doubted that if they
were to give an equally serious attention and effort undividedly to the secular interests of
these people, the immediate economic value of their work should be appreciably higher than
it is. It might of course similarly be said, if this were the place to say it, that the immediate
efficiency of these works of amelioration for the devout might be greater if it were not hampered
with the secular motives and aims which are usually present.

Some deduction is to be made from the economic value of this class of non-invidious enterprise,
on account of the intrusion of the devotional interest. But there are also deductions to be
made on account of the presence of other alien motives which more or less broadly traverse
the economic trend of this non-emulative expression of the instinct of workmanship. To such
an extent is this seen to be true on a closer scrutiny, that, when all is told, it may even
appear that this general class of enterprises is of an altogether dubious economic value--as
measured in terms of the fullness or facility of life of the individuals or classes to whose
amelioration the enterprise is directed. For instance, many of the efforts now in reputable
vogue for the amelioration of the indigent population of large cities are of the nature, in
great part, of a mission of culture. It is by this means sought to accelerate the rate of speed
at which given elements of the upper-class culture find acceptance in the everyday scheme of
life of the lower classes. The solicitude of "settlements," for example, is in part directed
to enhance the industrial efficiency of the poor and to teach them the more adequate utilization
of the means at hand; but it is also no less consistently directed to the inculcation, by precept
and example, of certain punctilios of upper-class propriety in manners and customs. The economic
substance of these proprieties will commonly be found on scrutiny to be a conspicuous waste
of time and goods. Those good people who go out to humanize the poor are commonly, and advisedly,
extremely scrupulous and silently insistent in matters of decorum and the decencies of life.
They are commonly persons of an exemplary life and gifted with a tenacious insistence on ceremonial
cleanness in the various items of their daily consumption. The cultural or civilizing efficacy
of this inculcation of correct habits of thought with respect to the consumption of time and
commodities is scarcely to be overrated; nor is its economic value to the individual who acquires
these higher and more reputable ideals inconsiderable. Under the circumstances of the existing
pecuniary culture, the reputability, and consequently the success, of the individual is in
great measure dependent on his proficiency in demeanor and methods of consumption that argue
habitual waste of time and goods. But as regards the ulterior economic bearing of this training
in worthier methods of life, it is to be said that the effect wrought is in large part a substitution
of costlier or less efficient methods of accomplishing the same material results, in relations
where the material result is the fact of substantial economic value. The propaganda of culture
is in great part an inculcation of new tastes, or rather of a new schedule of proprieties,
which have been adapted to the upper-class scheme of life under the guidance of the leisure-class
formulation of the principles of status and pecuniary decency. This new schedule of proprieties
is intruded into the lower-class scheme of life from the code elaborated by an element of the
population whose life lies outside the industrial process; and this intrusive schedule can
scarcely be expected to fit the exigencies of life for these lower classes more adequately
than the schedule already in vogue among them, and especially not more adequately than the
schedule which they are themselves working out under the stress of modern industrial life.

All this of course does not question the fact that the proprieties of the substituted schedule
are more decorous than those which they displace. The doubt which presents itself is simply
a doubt as to the economic expediency of this work of regeneration--that is to say, the economic
expediency in that immediate and material bearing in which the effects of the change can be
ascertained with some degree of confidence, and as viewed from the standpoint not of the individual
but of the facility of life of the collectivity. For an appreciation of the economic expediency
of these enterprises of amelioration, therefore, their effective work is scarcely to be taken
at its face value, even where the aim of the enterprise is primarily an economic one and where
the interest on which it proceeds is in no sense self-regarding or invidious. The economic
reform wrought is largely of the nature of a permutation in the methods of conspicuous waste.

But something further is to be said with respect to the character of the disinterested motives
and canons of procedure in all work of this class that is affected by the habits of thought
characteristic of the pecuniary culture; and this further consideration may lead to a further
qualification of the conclusions already reached. As has been seen in an earlier chapter, the
canons of reputability or decency under the pecuniary culture insist on habitual futility of
effort as the mark of a pecuniarily blameless life. There results not only a habit of disesteem
of useful occupations, but there results also what is of more decisive consequence in guiding
the action of any organized body of people that lays claim to social good repute. There is
a tradition which requires that one should not be vulgarly familiar with any of the processes
or details that have to do with the material necessities of life. One may meritoriously show
a quantitative interest in the well-being of the vulgar, through subscriptions or through work
on managing committees and the like. One may, perhaps even more meritoriously, show solicitude
in general and in detail for the cultural welfare of the vulgar, in the way of contrivances
for elevating their tastes and affording them opportunities for spiritual amelioration. But
one should not betray an intimate knowledge of the material circumstances of vulgar life, or
of the habits of thought of the vulgar classes, such as would effectually direct the efforts
of these organizations to a materially useful end. This reluctance to avow an unduly intimate
knowledge of the lower-class conditions of life in detail of course prevails in very different
degrees in different individuals; but there is commonly enough of it present collectively in
any organization of the kind in question profoundly to influence its course of action. By its
cumulative action in shaping the usage and precedents of any such body, this shrinking from
an imputation of unseemly familiarity with vulgar life tends gradually to set aside the initial
motives of the enterprise, in favor of certain guiding principles of good repute, ultimately
reducible to terms of pecuniary merit. So that in an organization of long standing the initial
motive of furthering the facility of life in these classes comes gradually to be an ostensible
motive only, and the vulgarly effective work of the organization tends to obsolescence.

What is true of the efficiency of organizations for non-invidious work in this respect is true
also as regards the work of individuals proceeding on the same motives; though it perhaps holds
true with more qualification for individuals than for organized enterprises. The habit of gauging
merit by the leisure-class canons of wasteful expenditure and unfamiliarity with vulgar life,
whether on the side of production or of consumption, is necessarily strong in the individuals
who aspire to do some work of public utility. And if the individual should forget his station
and turn his efforts to vulgar effectiveness, the common sense of the community-the sense of
pecuniary decency--would presently reject his work and set him right. An example of this is
seen in the administration of bequests made by public-spirited men for the single purpose (at
least ostensibly) of furthering the facility of human life in some particular respect. The
objects for which bequests of this class are most frequently made at present are most frequently
made at present are schools, libraries, hospitals, and asylums for the infirm or unfortunate.
The avowed purpose of the donor in these cases is the amelioration of human life in the particular
respect which is named in the bequest; but it will be found an invariable rule that in the
execution of the work not a little of other motives, frequency incompatible with the initial
motive, is present and determines the particular disposition eventually made of a good share
of the means which have been set apart by the bequest. Certain funds, for instance, may have
been set apart as a foundation for a foundling asylum or a retreat for invalids. The diversion
of expenditure to honorific waste in such cases is not uncommon enough to cause surprise or
even to raise a smile. An appreciable share of the funds is spent in the construction of an
edifice faced with some aesthetically objectionable but expensive stone, covered with grotesque
and incongruous details, and designed, in its battlemented walls and turrets and its massive
portals and strategic approaches, to suggest certain barbaric methods of warfare. The interior
of the structure shows the same pervasive guidance of the canons of conspicuous waste and predatory
exploit. The windows, for instance, to go no farther into detail, are placed with a view to
impress their pecuniary excellence upon the chance beholder from the outside, rather than with
a view to effectiveness for their ostensible end in the convenience or comfort of the beneficiaries
within; and the detail of interior arrangement is required to conform itself as best it may
to this alien but imperious requirement of pecuniary beauty.

In all this, of course, it is not to be presumed that the donor would have found fault, or
that he would have done otherwise if he had taken control in person; it appears that in those
cases where such a personal direction is exercised--where the enterprise is conducted by direct
expenditure and superintendence instead of by bequest--the aims and methods of management are
not different in this respect. Nor would the beneficiaries, or the outside observers whose
ease or vanity are not immediately touched, be pleased with a different disposition of the
funds. It would suit no one to have the enterprise conducted with a view directly to the most
economical and effective use of the means at hand for the initial, material end of the foundation.
All concerned, whether their interest is immediate and self-regarding, or contemplative only,
agree that some considerable share of the expenditure should go to the higher or spiritual
needs derived from the habit of an invidious comparison in predatory exploit and pecuniary
waste. But this only goes to say that the canons of emulative and pecuniary reputability so
far pervade the common sense of the community as to permit no escape or evasion, even in the
case of an enterprise which ostensibly proceeds entirely on the basis of a non-invidious interest.

It may even be that the enterprise owes its honorific virtue, as a means of enhancing the donor's
good repute, to the imputed presence of this non-invidious motive; but that does not hinder
the invidious interest from guiding the expenditure. The effectual presence of motives of an
emulative or invidious origin in non-emulative works of this kind might be shown at length
and with detail, in any one of the classes of enterprise spoken of above. Where these honorific
details occur, in such cases, they commonly masquerade under designations that belong in the
field of the aesthetic, ethical or economic interest. These special motives, derived from the
standards and canons of the pecuniary culture, act surreptitiously to divert effort of a non-invidious
kind from effective service, without disturbing the agent's sense of good intention or obtruding
upon his consciousness the substantial futility of his work. Their effect might be traced through
the entire range of that schedule of non-invidious, meliorative enterprise that is so considerable
a feature, and especially so conspicuous a feature, in the overt scheme of life of the well-to-do.
But the theoretical bearing is perhaps clear enough and may require no further illustration;
especially as some detailed attention will be given to one of these lines of enterprise--the
establishments for the higher learning--in another connection.

Under the circumstances of the sheltered situation in which the leisure class is placed there
seems, therefore, to be something of a reversion to the range of non-invidious impulses that
characterizes the ante-predatory savage culture. The reversion comprises both the sense of
workmanship and the proclivity to indolence and good-fellowship. But in the modern scheme of
life canons of conduct based on pecuniary or invidious merit stand in the way of a free exercise
of these impulses; and the dominant presence of these canons of conduct goes far to divert
such efforts as are made on the basis of the non-invidious interest to the service of that
invidious interest on which the pecuniary culture rests. The canons of pecuniary decency are
reducible for the present purpose to the principles of waste, futility, and ferocity. The requirements
of decency are imperiously present in meliorative enterprise as in other lines of conduct,
and exercise a selective surveillance over the details of conduct and management in any enterprise.
By guiding and adapting the method in detail, these canons of decency go far to make all non-invidious
aspiration or effort nugatory. The pervasive, impersonal, un-eager principle of futility is
at hand from day to day and works obstructively to hinder the effectual expression of so much
of the surviving ante-predatory aptitudes as is to be classed under the instinct of workmanship;
but its presence does not preclude the transmission of those aptitudes or the continued recurrence
of an impulse to find expression for them.

In the later and farther development of the pecuniary culture, the requirement of withdrawal
from the industrial process in order to avoid social odium is carried so far as to comprise
abstention from the emulative employments. At this advanced stage the pecuniary culture negatively
favors the assertion of the non-invidious propensities by relaxing the stress laid on the merit
of emulative, predatory, or pecuniary occupations, as compared with those of an industrial
or productive kind. As was noticed above, the requirement of such withdrawal from all employment
that is of human use applies more rigorously to the upper-class women than to any other class,
unless the priesthood of certain cults might be cited as an exception, perhaps more apparent
than real, to this rule. The reason for the more extreme insistence on a futile life for this
class of women than for the men of the same pecuniary and social grade lies in their being
not only an upper-grade leisure class but also at the same time a vicarious leisure class.
There is in their case a double ground for a consistent withdrawal from useful effort.

It has been well and repeatedly said by popular writers and speakers who reflect the common
sense of intelligent people on questions of social structure and function that the position
of woman in any community is the most striking index of the level of culture attained by the
community, and it might be added, by any given class in the community. This remark is perhaps
truer as regards the stage of economic development than as regards development in any other
respect. At the same time the position assigned to the woman in the accepted scheme of life,
in any community or under any culture, is in a very great degree an expression of traditions
which have been shaped by the circumstances of an earlier phase of development, and which have
been but partially adapted to the existing economic circumstances, or to the existing exigencies
of temperament and habits of mind by which the women living under this modern economic situation
are actuated.

The fact has already been remarked upon incidentally in the course of the discussion of the
growth of economic institutions generally, and in particular in speaking of vicarious leisure
and of dress, that the position of women in the modern economic scheme is more widely and more
consistently at variance with the promptings of the instinct of workmanship than is the position
of the men of the same classes. It is also apparently true that the woman's temperament includes
a larger share of this instinct that approves peace and disapproves futility. It is therefore
not a fortuitous circumstance that the women of modern industrial communities show a livelier
sense of the discrepancy between the accepted scheme of life and the exigencies of the economic
situation.

The several phases of the "woman question" have brought out in intelligible form the extent
to which the life of women in modern society, and in the polite circles especially, is regulated
by a body of common sense formulated under the economic circumstances of an earlier phase of
development. It is still felt that woman's life, in its civil, economic, and social bearing,
is essentially and normally a vicarious life, the merit or demerit of which is, in the nature
of things, to be imputed to some other individual who stands in some relation of ownership
or tutelage to the woman. So, for instance, any action on the part of a woman which traverses
an injunction of the accepted schedule of proprieties is felt to reflect immediately upon the
honor of the man whose woman she is. There may of course be some sense of incongruity in the
mind of any one passing an opinion of this kind on the woman's frailty or perversity; but the
common-sense judgment of the community in such matters is, after all, delivered without much
hesitation, and few men would question the legitimacy of their sense of an outraged tutelage
in any case that might arise. On the other hand, relatively little discredit attaches to a
woman through the evil deeds of the man with whom her life is associated.

The good and beautiful scheme of life, then--that is to say the scheme to which we are habituated--assigns
to the woman a "sphere" ancillary to the activity of the man; and it is felt that any departure
from the traditions of her assigned round of duties is unwomanly. If the question is as to
civil rights or the suffrage, our common sense in the matter--that is to say the logical deliverance
of our general scheme of life upon the point in question--says that the woman should be represented
in the body politic and before the law, not immediately in her own person, but through the
mediation of the head of the household to which she belongs. It is unfeminine in her to aspire
to a self-directing, self-centered life; and our common sense tells us that her direct participation
in the affairs of the community, civil or industrial, is a menace to that social order which
expresses our habits of thought as they have been formed under the guidance of the traditions
of the pecuniary culture. "All this fume and froth of 'emancipating woman from the slavery
of man' and so on, is, to use the chaste and expressive language of Elizabeth Cady Stanton
inversely, 'utter rot.' The social relations of the sexes are fixed by nature. Our entire civilization--that
is whatever is good in it--is based on the home." The "home" is the household with a male head.
This view, but commonly expressed even more chastely, is the prevailing view of the woman's
status, not only among the common run of the men of civilized communities, but among the women
as well. Women have a very alert sense of what the scheme of proprieties requires, and while
it is true that many of them are ill at ease under the details which the code imposes, there
are few who do not recognize that the existing moral order, of necessity and by the divine
right of prescription, places the woman in a position ancillary to the man. In the last analysis,
according to her own sense of what is good and beautiful, the woman's life is, and in theory
must be, an expression of the man's life at the second remove.

But in spite of this pervading sense of what is the good and natural place for the woman, there
is also perceptible an incipient development of sentiment to the effect that this whole arrangement
of tutelage and vicarious life and imputation of merit and demerit is somehow a mistake. Or,
at least, that even if it may be a natural growth and a good arrangement in its time and place,
and in spite of its patent aesthetic value, still it does not adequately serve the more everyday
ends of life in a modern industrial community. Even that large and substantial body of well-bred,
upper and middle-class women to whose dispassionate, matronly sense of the traditional proprieties
this relation of status commends itself as fundamentally and eternally right-even these, whose
attitude is conservative, commonly find some slight discrepancy in detail between things as
they are and things as they should be in this respect. But that less manageable body of modern
women who, by force of youth, education, or temperament, are in some degree out of touch with
the traditions of status received from the barbarian culture, and in whom there is, perhaps,
an undue reversion to the impulse of self-expression and workmanship--these are touched with
a sense of grievance too vivid to leave them at rest.

In this "New-Woman" movement--as these blind and incoherent efforts to rehabilitate the woman's
pre-glacial standing have been named--there are at least two elements discernible, both of
which are of an economic character. These two elements or motives are expressed by the double
watchword, "Emancipation" and "Work." Each of these words is recognized to stand for something
in the way of a wide-spread sense of grievance. The prevalence of the sentiment is recognized
even by people who do not see that there is any real ground for a grievance in the situation
as it stands today. It is among the women of the well-to-do classes, in the communities which
are farthest advanced in industrial development, that this sense of a grievance to be redressed
is most alive and finds most frequent expression. That is to say, in other words, there is
a demand, more or less serious, for emancipation from all relation of status, tutelage, or
vicarious life; and the revulsion asserts itself especially among the class of women upon whom
the scheme of life handed down from the regime of status imposes with least litigation a vicarious
life, and in those communities whose economic development has departed farthest from the circumstances
to which this traditional scheme is adapted. The demand comes from that portion of womankind
which is excluded by the canons of good repute from all effectual work, and which is closely
reserved for a life of leisure and conspicuous consumption.

More than one critic of this new-woman movement has misapprehended its motive. The case of
the American "new woman" has lately been summed up with some warmth by a popular observer of
social phenomena: "She is petted by her husband, the most devoted and hard-working of husbands
in the world.... She is the superior of her husband in education, and in almost every respect.
She is surrounded by the most numerous and delicate attentions. Yet she is not satisfied....
The Anglo-Saxon 'new woman' is the most ridiculous production of modern times, and destined
to be the most ghastly failure of the century." Apart from the deprecation--perhaps well placed--which
is contained in this presentment, it adds nothing but obscurity to the woman question. The
grievance of the new woman is made up of those things which this typical characterization of
the movement urges as reasons why she should be content. She is petted, and is permitted, or
even required, to consume largely and conspicuously--vicariously for her husband or other natural
guardian. She is exempted, or debarred, from vulgarly useful employment--in order to perform
leisure vicariously for the good repute of her natural (pecuniary) guardian. These offices
are the conventional marks of the un-free, at the same time that they are incompatible with
the human impulse to purposeful activity. But the woman is endowed with her share-which there
is reason to believe is more than an even share--of the instinct of workmanship, to which futility
of life or of expenditure is obnoxious. She must unfold her life activity in response to the
direct, unmediated stimuli of the economic environment with which she is in contact. The impulse
is perhaps stronger upon the woman than upon the man to live her own life in her own way and
to enter the industrial process of the community at something nearer than the second remove.

So long as the woman's place is consistently that of a drudge, she is, in the average of cases,
fairly contented with her lot. She not only has something tangible and purposeful to do, but
she has also no time or thought to spare for a rebellious assertion of such human propensity
to self-direction as she has inherited. And after the stage of universal female drudgery is
passed, and a vicarious leisure without strenuous application becomes the accredited employment
of the women of the well-to-do classes, the prescriptive force of the canon of pecuniary decency,
which requires the observance of ceremonial futility on their part, will long preserve high-minded
women from any sentimental leaning to self-direction and a "sphere of usefulness." This is
especially true during the earlier phases of the pecuniary culture, while the leisure of the
leisure class is still in great measure a predatory activity, an active assertion of mastery
in which there is enough of tangible purpose of an invidious kind to admit of its being taken
seriously as an employment to which one may without shame put one's hand. This condition of
things has obviously lasted well down into the present in some communities. It continues to
hold to a different extent for different individuals, varying with the vividness of the sense
of status and with the feebleness of the impulse to workmanship with which the individual is
endowed. But where the economic structure of the community has so far outgrown the scheme of
life based on status that the relation of personal subservience is no longer felt to be the
sole "natural" human relation; there the ancient habit of purposeful activity will begin to
assert itself in the less conformable individuals against the more recent, relatively superficial,
relatively ephemeral habits and views which the predatory and the pecuniary culture have contributed
to our scheme of life. These habits and views begin to lose their coercive force for the community
or the class in question so soon as the habit of mind and the views of life due to the predatory
and the quasi-peaceable discipline cease to be in fairly close accord with the later-developed
economic situation. This is evident in the case of the industrious classes of modern communities;
for them the leisure-class scheme of life has lost much of its binding force, especially as
regards the element of status. But it is also visibly being verified in the case of the upper
classes, though not in the same manner.

The habits derived from the predatory and quasi-peaceable culture are relatively ephemeral
variants of certain underlying propensities and mental characteristics of the race; which it
owes to the protracted discipline of the earlier, proto-anthropoid cultural stage of peaceable,
relatively undifferentiated economic life carried on in contact with a relatively simple and
invariable material environment. When the habits superinduced by the emulative method of life
have ceased to enjoy the section of existing economic exigencies, a process of disintegration
sets in whereby the habits of thought of more recent growth and of a less generic character
to some extent yield the ground before the more ancient and more pervading spiritual characteristics
of the race.

In a sense, then, the new-woman movement marks a reversion to a more generic type of human
character, or to a less differentiated expression of human nature. It is a type of human nature
which is to be characterized as proto-anthropoid, and, as regards the substance if not the
form of its dominant traits, it belongs to a cultural stage that may be classed as possibly
sub-human. The particular movement or evolutional feature in question of course shares this
characterization with the rest of the later social development, in so far as this social development
shows evidence of a reversion to the spiritual attitude that characterizes the earlier, undifferentiated
stage of economic revolution. Such evidence of a general tendency to reversion from the dominance
of the invidious interest is not entirely wanting, although it is neither plentiful nor unquestionably
convincing. The general decay of the sense of status in modern industrial communities goes
some way as evidence in this direction; and the perceptible return to a disapproval of futility
in human life, and a disapproval of such activities as serve only the individual gain at the
cost of the collectivity or at the cost of other social groups, is evidence to a like effect.
There is a perceptible tendency to deprecate the infliction of pain, as well as to discredit
all marauding enterprises, even where these expressions of the invidious interest do not tangibly
work to the material detriment of the community or of the individual who passes an opinion
on them. It may even be said that in the modern industrial communities the average, dispassionate
sense of men says that the ideal character is a character which makes for peace, good-will,
and economic efficiency, rather than for a life of self-seeking, force, fraud, and mastery.

The influence of the leisure class is not consistently for or against the rehabilitation of
this proto-anthropoid human nature. So far as concerns the chance of survival of individuals
endowed with an exceptionally large share of the primitive traits, the sheltered position of
the class favors its members directly by withdrawing them from the pecuniary struggle; but
indirectly, through the leisure-class canons of conspicuous waste of goods and effort, the
institution of a leisure class lessens the chance of survival of such individuals in the entire
body of the population. The decent requirements of waste absorb the surplus energy of the population
in an invidious struggle and leave no margin for the non-invidious expression of life. The
remoter, less tangible, spiritual effects of the discipline of decency go in the same direction
and work perhaps more effectually to the same end. The canons of decent life are an elaboration
of the principle of invidious comparison, and they accordingly act consistently to inhibit
all non-invidious effort and to inculcate the self-regarding attitude.

Chapter Fourteen ~~ The Higher Learning as an Expression of the Pecuniary Culture

To the end that suitable habits of thought on certain heads may be conserved in the incoming
generation, a scholastic discipline is sanctioned by the common sense of the community and
incorporated into the accredited scheme of life. The habits of thought which are so formed
under the guidance of teachers and scholastic traditions have an economic value--a value as
affecting the serviceability of the individual--no less real than the similar economic value
of the habits of thought formed without such guidance under the discipline of everyday life.
Whatever characteristics of the accredited scholastic scheme and discipline are traceable to
the predilections of the leisure class or to the guidance of the canons of pecuniary merit
are to be set down to the account of that institution, and whatever economic value these features
of the educational scheme possess are the expression in detail of the value of that institution.
It will be in place, therefore, to point out any peculiar features of the educational system
which are traceable to the leisure-class scheme of life, whether as regards the aim and method
of the discipline, or as regards the compass and character of the body of knowledge inculcated.
It is in learning proper, and more particularly in the higher learning, that the influence
of leisure-class ideals is most patent; and since the purpose here is not to make an exhaustive
collation of data showing the effect of the pecuniary culture upon education, but rather to
illustrate the method and trend of the leisure-class influence in education, a survey of certain
salient features of the higher learning, such as may serve this purpose, is all that will be
attempted.

In point of derivation and early development, learning is somewhat closely related to the devotional
function of the community, particularly to the body of observances in which the service rendered
the supernatural leisure class expresses itself. The service by which it is sought to conciliate
supernatural agencies in the primitive cults is not an industrially profitable employment of
the community's time and effort. It is, therefore, in great part, to be classed as a vicarious
leisure performed for the supernatural powers with whom negotiations are carried on and whose
good-will the service and the professions of subservience are conceived to procure. In great
part, the early learning consisted in an acquisition of knowledge and facility in the service
of a supernatural agent. It was therefore closely analogous in character to the training required
for the domestic service of a temporal master. To a great extent, the knowledge acquired under
the priestly teachers of the primitive community was knowledge of ritual and ceremonial; that
is to say, a knowledge of the most proper, most effective, or most acceptable manner of approaching
and of serving the preternatural agents. What was learned was how to make oneself indispensable
to these powers, and so to put oneself in a position to ask, or even to require, their intercession
in the course of events or their abstention from interference in any given enterprise. Propitiation
was the end, and this end was sought, in great part, by acquiring facility in subservience.
It appears to have been only gradually that other elements than those of efficient service
of the master found their way into the stock of priestly or shamanistic instruction.

The priestly servitor of the inscrutable powers that move in the external world came to stand
in the position of a mediator between these powers and the common run of unrestricted humanity;
for he was possessed of a knowledge of the supernatural etiquette which would admit him into
the presence. And as commonly happens with mediators between the vulgar and their masters,
whether the masters be natural or preternatural, he found it expedient to have the means at
hand tangibly to impress upon the vulgar the fact that these inscrutable powers would do what
he might ask of them. Hence, presently, a knowledge of certain natural processes which could
be turned to account for spectacular effect, together with some sleight of hand, came to be
an integral part of priestly lore. Knowledge of this kind passes for knowledge of the "unknowable",
and it owes its serviceability for the sacerdotal purpose to its recondite character. It appears
to have been from this source that learning, as an institution, arose, and its differentiation
from this its parent stock of magic ritual and shamanistic fraud has been slow and tedious,
and is scarcely yet complete even in the most advanced of the higher seminaries of learning.

The recondite element in learning is still, as it has been in all ages, a very attractive and
effective element for the purpose of impressing, or even imposing upon, the unlearned; and
the standing of the savant in the mind of the altogether unlettered is in great measure rated
in terms of intimacy with the occult forces. So, for instance, as a typical case, even so late
as the middle of this century, the Norwegian peasants have instinctively formulated their sense
of the superior erudition of such doctors of divinity as Luther, Malanchthon, Peder Dass, and
even so late a scholar in divinity as Grundtvig, in terms of the Black Art. These, together
with a very comprehensive list of minor celebrities, both living and dead, have been reputed
masters in all magical arts; and a high position in the ecclesiastical personnel has carried
with it, in the apprehension of these good people, an implication of profound familiarity with
magical practice and the occult sciences. There is a parallel fact nearer home, similarly going
to show the close relationship, in popular apprehension, between erudition and the unknowable;
and it will at the same time serve to illustrate, in somewhat coarse outline, the bent which
leisure-class life gives to the cognitive interest. While the belief is by no means confined
to the leisure class, that class today comprises a disproportionately large number of believers
in occult sciences of all kinds and shades. By those whose habits of thought are not shaped
by contact with modern industry, the knowledge of the unknowable is still felt to the ultimate
if not the only true knowledge.

Learning, then, set out by being in some sense a by-product of the priestly vicarious leisure
class; and, at least until a recent date, the higher learning has since remained in some sense
a by-product or by-occupation of the priestly classes. As the body of systematized knowledge
increased, there presently arose a distinction, traceable very far back in the history of education,
between esoteric and exoteric knowledge, the former--so far as there is a substantial difference
between the two--comprising such knowledge as is primarily of no economic or industrial effect,
and the latter comprising chiefly knowledge of industrial processes and of natural phenomena
which were habitually turned to account for the material purposes of life. This line of demarcation
has in time become, at least in popular apprehension, the normal line between the higher learning
and the lower.

It is significant, not only as an evidence of their close affiliation with the priestly craft,
but also as indicating that their activity to a good extent falls under that category of conspicuous
leisure known as manners and breeding, that the learned class in all primitive communities
are great sticklers for form, precedent, gradations of rank, ritual, ceremonial vestments,
and learned paraphernalia generally. This is of course to be expected, and it goes to say that
the higher learning, in its incipient phase, is a leisure-class occupation--more specifically
an occupation of the vicarious leisure class employed in the service of the supernatural leisure
class. But this predilection for the paraphernalia of learning goes also to indicate a further
point of contact or of continuity between the priestly office and the office of the savant.
In point of derivation, learning, as well as the priestly office, is largely an outgrowth of
sympathetic magic; and this magical apparatus of form and ritual therefore finds its place
with the learned class of the primitive community as a matter of course. The ritual and paraphernalia
have an occult efficacy for the magical purpose; so that their presence as an integral factor
in the earlier phases of the development of magic and science is a matter of expediency, quite
as much as of affectionate regard for symbolism simply.

This sense of the efficacy of symbolic ritual, and of sympathetic effect to be wrought through
dexterous rehearsal of the traditional accessories of the act or end to be compassed, is of
course present more obviously and in larger measure in magical practice than in the discipline
of the sciences, even of the occult sciences. But there are, I apprehend, few persons with
a cultivated sense of scholastic merit to whom the ritualistic accessories of science are altogether
an idle matter. The very great tenacity with which these ritualistic paraphernalia persist
through the later course of the development is evident to any one who will reflect on what
has been the history of learning in our civilization. Even today there are such things in the
usage of the learned community as the cap and gown, matriculation, initiation, and graduation
ceremonies, and the conferring of scholastic degrees, dignities, and prerogatives in a way
which suggests some sort of a scholarly apostolic succession. The usage of the priestly orders
is no doubt the proximate source of all these features of learned ritual, vestments, sacramental
initiation, the transmission of peculiar dignities and virtues by the imposition of hands,
and the like; but their derivation is traceable back of this point, to the source from which
the specialized priestly class proper came to be distinguished from the sorcerer on the one
hand and from the menial servant of a temporal master on the other hand. So far as regards
both their derivation and their psychological content, these usages and the conceptions on
which they rest belong to a stage in cultural development no later than that of the angekok
and the rain-maker. Their place in the later phases of devout observance, as well as in the
higher educational system, is that of a survival from a very early animistic phase of the development
of human nature.

These ritualistic features of the educational system of the present and of the recent past,
it is quite safe to say, have their place primarily in the higher, liberal, and classic institutions
and grades of learning, rather than in the lower, technological, or practical grades, and branches
of the system. So far as they possess them, the lower and less reputable branches of the educational
scheme have evidently borrowed these things from the higher grades; and their continued persistence
among the practical schools, without the sanction of the continued example of the higher and
classic grades, would be highly improbable, to say the least. With the lower and practical
schools and scholars, the adoption and cultivation of these usages is a case of mimicry--due
to a desire to conform as far as may be to the standards of scholastic reputability maintained
by the upper grades and classes, who have come by these accessory features legitimately, by
the right of lineal devolution.

The analysis may even be safely carried a step farther. Ritualistic survivals and reversions
come out in fullest vigor and with the freest air of spontaneity among those seminaries of
learning which have to do primarily with the education of the priestly and leisure classes.
Accordingly it should appear, and it does pretty plainly appear, on a survey of recent developments
in college and university life, that wherever schools founded for the instruction of the lower
classes in the immediately useful branches of knowledge grow into institutions of the higher
learning, the growth of ritualistic ceremonial and paraphernalia and of elaborate scholastic
"functions" goes hand in hand with the transition of the schools in question from the field
of homely practicality into the higher, classical sphere. The initial purpose of these schools,
and the work with which they have chiefly had to do at the earlier of these two stages of their
evolution, has been that of fitting the young of the industrious classes for work. On the higher,
classical plane of learning to which they commonly tend, their dominant aim becomes the preparation
of the youth of the priestly and the leisure classes--or of an incipient leisure class--for
the consumption of goods, material and immaterial, according to a conventionally accepted,
reputable scope and method. This happy issue has commonly been the fate of schools founded
by "friends of the people" for the aid of struggling young men, and where this transition is
made in good form there is commonly, if not invariably, a coincident change to a more ritualistic
life in the schools.

In the school life of today, learned ritual is in a general way best at home in schools whose
chief end is the cultivation of the "humanities". This correlation is shown, perhaps more neatly
than anywhere else, in the life-history of the American colleges and universities of recent
growth. There may be many exceptions from the rule, especially among those schools which have
been founded by the typically reputable and ritualistic churches, and which, therefore, started
on the conservative and classical plane or reached the classical position by a short-cut; but
the general rule as regards the colleges founded in the newer American communities during the
present century has been that so long as the constituency from which the colleges have drawn
their pupils has been dominated by habits of industry and thrift, so long the reminiscences
of the medicine-man have found but a scant and precarious acceptance in the scheme of college
life. But so soon as wealth begins appreciably to accumulate in the community, and so soon
as a given school begins to lean on a leisure-class constituency, there comes also a perceptibly
increased insistence on scholastic ritual and on conformity to the ancient forms as regards
vestments and social and scholastic solemnities. So, for instance, there has been an approximate
coincidence between the growth of wealth among the constituency which supports any given college
of the Middle West and the date of acceptance--first into tolerance and then into imperative
vogue--of evening dress for men and of the décolleté for women, as the scholarly vestments
proper to occasions of learned solemnity or to the seasons of social amenity within the college
circle. Apart from the mechanical difficulty of so large a task, it would scarcely be a difficult
matter to trace this correlation. The like is true of the vogue of the cap and gown.

Cap and gown have been adopted as learned insignia by many colleges of this section within
the last few years; and it is safe to say that this could scarcely have occurred at a much
earlier date, or until there had grown up a leisure-class sentiment of sufficient volume in
the community to support a strong movement of reversion towards an archaic view as to the legitimate
end of education. This particular item of learned ritual, it may be noted, would not only commend
itself to the leisure-class sense of the fitness of things, as appealing to the archaic propensity
for spectacular effect and the predilection for antique symbolism; but it at the same time
fits into the leisure-class scheme of life as involving a notable element of conspicuous waste.
The precise date at which the reversion to cap and gown took place, as well as the fact that
it affected so large a number of schools at about the same time, seems to have been due in
some measure to a wave of atavistic sense of conformity and reputability that passed over the
community at that period.

It may not be entirely beside the point to note that in point of time this curious reversion
seems to coincide with the culmination of a certain vogue of atavistic sentiment and tradition
in other directions also. The wave of reversion seems to have received its initial impulse
in the psychologically disintegrating effects of the Civil War. Habituation to war entails
a body of predatory habits of thought, whereby clannishness in some measure replaces the sense
of solidarity, and a sense of invidious distinction supplants the impulse to equitable, everyday
serviceability. As an outcome of the cumulative action of these factors, the generation which
follows a season of war is apt to witness a rehabilitation of the element of status, both in
its social life and in its scheme of devout observances and other symbolic or ceremonial forms.
Throughout the eighties, and less plainly traceable through the seventies also, there was perceptible
a gradually advancing wave of sentiment favoring quasi-predatory business habits, insistence
on status, anthropomorphism, and conservatism generally. The more direct and unmediated of
these expressions of the barbarian temperament, such as the recrudescence of outlawry and the
spectacular quasi-predatory careers of fraud run by certain "captains of industry", came to
a head earlier and were appreciably on the decline by the close of the seventies. The recrudescence
of anthropomorphic sentiment also seems to have passed its most acute stage before the close
of the eighties. But the learned ritual and paraphernalia here spoken of are a still remoter
and more recondite expression of the barbarian animistic sense; and these, therefore, gained
vogue and elaboration more slowly and reached their most effective development at a still later
date. There is reason to believe that the culmination is now already past. Except for the new
impetus given by a new war experience, and except for the support which the growth of a wealthy
class affords to all ritual, and especially to whatever ceremonial is wasteful and pointedly
suggests gradations of status, it is probable that the late improvements and augmentation of
scholastic insignia and ceremonial would gradually decline. But while it may be true that the
cap and gown, and the more strenuous observance of scholastic proprieties which came with them,
were floated in on this post-bellum tidal wave of reversion to barbarism, it is also no doubt
true that such a ritualistic reversion could not have been effected in the college scheme of
life until the accumulation of wealth in the hands of a propertied class had gone far enough
to afford the requisite pecuniary ground for a movement which should bring the colleges of
the country up to the leisure-class requirements in the higher learning. The adoption of the
cap and gown is one of the striking atavistic features of modern college life, and at the same
time it marks the fact that these colleges have definitely become leisure-class establishments,
either in actual achievement or in aspiration.

As further evidence of the close relation between the educational system and the cultural standards
of the community, it may be remarked that there is some tendency latterly to substitute the
captain of industry in place of the priest, as the head of seminaries of the higher learning.
The substitution is by no means complete or unequivocal. Those heads of institutions are best
accepted who combine the sacerdotal office with a high degree of pecuniary efficiency. There
is a similar but less pronounced tendency to intrust the work of instruction in the higher
learning to men of some pecuniary qualification. Administrative ability and skill in advertising
the enterprise count for rather more than they once did, as qualifications for the work of
teaching. This applies especially in those sciences that have most to do with the everyday
facts of life, and it is particularly true of schools in the economically single-minded communities.
This partial substitution of pecuniary for sacerdotal efficiency is a concomitant of the modern
transition from conspicuous leisure to conspicuous consumption, as the chief means of reputability.
The correlation of the two facts is probably clear without further elaboration.

The attitude of the schools and of the learned class towards the education of women serves
to show in what manner and to what extent learning has departed from its ancient station of
priestly and leisure-class prerogatives, and it indicates also what approach has been made
by the truly learned to the modern, economic or industrial, matter-of-fact standpoint. The
higher schools and the learned professions were until recently tabu to the women. These establishments
were from the outset, and have in great measure continued to be, devoted to the education of
the priestly and leisure classes.

The women, as has been shown elsewhere, were the original subservient class, and to some extent,
especially so far as regards their nominal or ceremonial position, they have remained in that
relation down to the present. There has prevailed a strong sense that the admission of women
to the privileges of the higher learning (as to the Eleusianin mysteries) would be derogatory
to the dignity of the learned craft. It is therefore only very recently, and almost solely
in the industrially most advanced communities, that the higher grades of schools have been
freely opened to women. And even under the urgent circumstances prevailing in the modern industrial
communities, the highest and most reputable universities show an extreme reluctance in making
the move. The sense of class worthiness, that is to say of status, of a honorific differentiation
of the sexes according to a distinction between superior and inferior intellectual dignity,
survives in a vigorous form in these corporations of the aristocracy of learning. It is felt
that the woman should, in all propriety, acquire only such knowledge as may be classed under
one or the other of two heads: (1) such knowledge as conduces immediately to a better performance
of domestic service--the domestic sphere; (2) such accomplishments and dexterity, quasi-scholarly
and quasi-artistic, as plainly come in under the head of a performance of vicarious leisure.
Knowledge is felt to be unfeminine if it is knowledge which expresses the unfolding of the
learner's own life, the acquisition of which proceeds on the learner's own cognitive interest,
without prompting from the canons of propriety, and without reference back to a master whose
comfort or good repute is to be enhanced by the employment or the exhibition of it. So, also,
all knowledge which is useful as evidence of leisure, other than vicarious leisure, is scarcely
feminine.

For an appreciation of the relation which these higher seminaries of learning bear to the economic
life of the community, the phenomena which have been reviewed are of importance rather as indications
of a general attitude than as being in themselves facts of first-rate economic consequence.
They go to show what is the instinctive attitude and animus of the learned class towards the
life process of an industrial community. They serve as an exponent of the stage of development,
for the industrial purpose, attained by the higher learning and by the learned class, and so
they afford an indication as to what may fairly be looked for from this class at points where
the learning and the life of the class bear more immediately upon the economic life and efficiency
of the community, and upon the adjustment of its scheme of life to the requirements of the
time. What these ritualistic survivals go to indicate is a prevalence of conservatism, if not
of reactionary sentiment, especially among the higher schools where the conventional learning
is cultivated.

To these indications of a conservative attitude is to be added another characteristic which
goes in the same direction, but which is a symptom of graver consequence that this playful
inclination to trivialities of form and ritual. By far the greater number of American colleges
and universities, for instance, are affiliated to some religious denomination and are somewhat
given to devout observances. Their putative familiarity with scientific methods and the scientific
point of view should presumably exempt the faculties of these schools from animistic habits
of thought; but there is still a considerable proportion of them who profess an attachment
to the anthropomorphic beliefs and observances of an earlier culture. These professions of
devotional zeal are, no doubt, to a good extent expedient and perfunctory, both on the part
of the schools in their corporate capacity, and on the part of the individual members of the
corps of instructors; but it can not be doubted that there is after all a very appreciable
element of anthropomorphic sentiment present in the higher schools. So far as this is the case
it must be set down as the expression of an archaic, animistic habit of mind. This habit of
mind must necessarily assert itself to some extent in the instruction offered, and to this
extent its influence in shaping the habits of thought of the student makes for conservatism
and reversion; it acts to hinder his development in the direction of matter-of-fact knowledge,
such as best serves the ends of industry.

The college sports, which have so great a vogue in the reputable seminaries of learning today,
tend in a similar direction; and, indeed, sports have much in common with the devout attitude
of the colleges, both as regards their psychological basis and as regards their disciplinary
effect. But this expression of the barbarian temperament is to be credited primarily to the
body of students, rather than to the temper of the schools as such; except in so far as the
colleges or the college officials--as sometimes happens--actively countenance and foster the
growth of sports. The like is true of college fraternities as of college sports, but with a
difference. The latter are chiefly an expression of the predatory impulse simply; the former
are more specifically an expression of that heritage of clannishness which is so large a feature
in the temperament of the predatory barbarian. It is also noticeable that a close relation
subsists between the fraternities and the sporting activity of the schools. After what has
already been said in an earlier chapter on the sporting and gambling habit, it is scarcely
necessary further to discuss the economic value of this training in sports and in factional
organization and activity.

But all these features of the scheme of life of the learned class, and of the establishments
dedicated to the conservation of the higher learning, are in a great measure incidental only.
They are scarcely to be accounted organic elements of the professed work of research and instruction
for the ostensible pursuit of which the schools exists. But these symptomatic indications go
to establish a presumption as to the character of the work performed--as seen from the economic
point of view--and as to the bent which the serious work carried on under their auspices gives
to the youth who resort to the schools. The presumption raised by the considerations already
offered is that in their work also, as well as in their ceremonial, the higher schools may
be expected to take a conservative position; but this presumption must be checked by a comparison
of the economic character of the work actually performed, and by something of a survey of the
learning whose conservation is intrusted to the higher schools. On this head, it is well known
that the accredited seminaries of learning have, until a recent date, held a conservative position.
They have taken an attitude of depreciation towards all innovations. As a general rule a new
point of view or a new formulation of knowledge have been countenanced and taken up within
the schools only after these new things have made their way outside of the schools. As exceptions
from this rule are chiefly to be mentioned innovations of an inconspicuous kind and departures
which do not bear in any tangible way upon the conventional point of view or upon the conventional
scheme of life; as, for instance, details of fact in the mathematico-physical sciences, and
new readings and interpretations of the classics, especially such as have a philological or
literary bearing only. Except within the domain of the "humanities", in the narrow sense, and
except so far as the traditional point of view of the humanities has been left intact by the
innovators, it has generally held true that the accredited learned class and the seminaries
of the higher learning have looked askance at all innovation. New views, new departures in
scientific theory, especially in new departures which touch the theory of human relations at
any point, have found a place in the scheme of the university tardily and by a reluctant tolerance,
rather than by a cordial welcome; and the men who have occupied themselves with such efforts
to widen the scope of human knowledge have not commonly been well received by their learned
contemporaries. The higher schools have not commonly given their countenance to a serious advance
in the methods or the content of knowledge until the innovations have outlived their youth
and much of their usefulness--after they have become commonplaces of the intellectual furniture
of a new generation which has grown up under, and has had its habits of thought shaped by,
the new, extra-scholastic body of knowledge and the new standpoint. This is true of the recent
past. How far it may be true of the immediate present it would be hazardous to say, for it
is impossible to see present-day facts in such perspective as to get a fair conception of their
relative proportions.

So far, nothing has been said of the Maecenas function of the well-to-do, which is habitually
dwelt on at some length by writers and speakers who treat of the development of culture and
of social structure. This leisure-class function is not without an important bearing on the
higher and on the spread of knowledge and culture. The manner and the degree in which the class
furthers learning through patronage of this kind is sufficiently familiar. It has been frequently
presented in affectionate and effective terms by spokesmen whose familiarity with the topic
fits them to bring home to their hearers the profound significance of this cultural factor.
These spokesmen, however, have presented the matter from the point of view of the cultural
interest, or of the interest of reputability, rather than from that of the economic interest.
As apprehended from the economic point of view, and valued for the purpose of industrial serviceability,
this function of the well-to-do, as well as the intellectual attitude of members of the well-to-do
class, merits some attention and will bear illustration.

By way of characterization of the Maecenas relation, it is to be noted that, considered externally,
as an economic or industrial relation simply, it is a relation of status. The scholar under
the patronage performs the duties of a learned life vicariously for his patron, to whom a certain
repute inures after the manner of the good repute imputed to a master for whom any form of
vicarious leisure is performed. It is also to be noted that, in point of historical fact, the
furtherance of learning or the maintenance of scholarly activity through the Maecenas relation
has most commonly been a furtherance of proficiency in classical lore or in the humanities.
The knowledge tends to lower rather than to heighten the industrial efficiency of the community.

Further, as regards the direct participation of the members of the leisure class in the furtherance
of knowledge, the canons of reputable living act to throw such intellectual interest as seeks
expression among the class on the side of classical and formal erudition, rather than on the
side of the sciences that bear some relation to the community's industrial life. The most frequent
excursions into other than classical fields of knowledge on the part of members of the leisure
class are made into the discipline of law and the political, and more especially the administrative,
sciences. These so-called sciences are substantially bodies of maxims of expediency for guidance
in the leisure-class office of government, as conducted on a proprietary basis. The interest
with which this discipline is approached is therefore not commonly the intellectual or cognitive
interest simply. It is largely the practical interest of the exigencies of that relation of
mastery in which the members of the class are placed. In point of derivation, the office of
government is a predatory function, pertaining integrally to the archaic leisure-class scheme
of life. It is an exercise of control and coercion over the population from which the class
draws its sustenance. This discipline, as well as the incidents of practice which give it its
content, therefore has some attraction for the class apart from all questions of cognition.
All this holds true wherever and so long as the governmental office continues, in form or in
substance, to be a proprietary office; and it holds true beyond that limit, in so far as the
tradition of the more archaic phase of governmental evolution has lasted on into the later
life of those modern communities for whom proprietary government by a leisure class is now
beginning to pass away.

For that field of learning within which the cognitive or intellectual interest is dominant--the
sciences properly so called--the case is somewhat different, not only as regards the attitude
of the leisure class, but as regards the whole drift of the pecuniary culture. Knowledge for
its own sake, the exercise of the faculty of comprehensive without ulterior purpose, should,
it might be expected, be sought by men whom no urgent material interest diverts from such a
quest. The sheltered industrial position of the leisure class should give free play to the
cognitive interest in members of this class, and we should consequently have, as many writers
confidently find that we do have, a very large proportion of scholars, scientists, savants
derived from this class and deriving their incentive to scientific investigation and speculation
from the discipline of a life of leisure. Some such result is to be looked for, but there are
features of the leisure-class scheme of life, already sufficiently dwelt upon, which go to
divert the intellectual interest of this class to other subjects than that causal sequence
in phenomena which makes the content of the sciences. The habits of thought which characterize
the life of the class run on the personal relation of dominance, and on the derivative, invidious
concepts of honor, worth, merit, character, and the like. The casual sequence which makes up
the subject matter of science is not visible from this point of view. Neither does good repute
attach to knowledge of facts that are vulgarly useful. Hence it should appear probable that
the interest of the invidious comparison with respect to pecuniary or other honorific merit
should occupy the attention of the leisure class, to the neglect of the cognitive interest.
Where this latter interest asserts itself it should commonly be diverted to fields of speculation
or investigation which are reputable and futile, rather than to the quest of scientific knowledge.
Such indeed has been the history of priestly and leisure-class learning so long as no considerable
body of systematized knowledge had been intruded into the scholastic discipline from an extra-scholastic
source. But since the relation of mastery and subservience is ceasing to be the dominant and
formative factor in the community's life process, other features of the life process and other
points of view are forcing themselves upon the scholars. The true-bred gentleman of leisure
should, and does, see the world from the point of view of the personal relation; and the cognitive
interest, so far as it asserts itself in him, should seek to systematize phenomena on this
basis. Such indeed is the case with the gentleman of the old school, in whom the leisure-class
ideals have suffered no disintegration; and such is the attitude of his latter-day descendant,
in so far as he has fallen heir to the full complement of upper-class virtues. But the ways
of heredity are devious, and not every gentleman's son is to the manor born. Especially is
the transmission of the habits of thought which characterize the predatory master somewhat
precarious in the case of a line of descent in which but one or two of the latest steps have
lain within the leisure-class discipline. The chances of occurrence of a strong congenital
or acquired bent towards the exercise of the cognitive aptitudes are apparently best in those
members of the leisure class who are of lower class or middle class antecedents--that is to
say, those who have inherited the complement of aptitudes proper to the industrious classes,
and who owe their place in the leisure class to the possession of qualities which count for
more today than they did in the times when the leisure-class scheme of life took shape. But
even outside the range of these later accessions to the leisure class there are an appreciable
number of individuals in whom the invidious interest is not sufficiently dominant to shape
their theoretical views, and in whom the proclivity to theory is sufficiently strong to lead
them into the scientific quest.

The higher learning owes the intrusion of the sciences in part to these aberrant scions of
the leisure class, who have come under the dominant influence of the latter-day tradition of
impersonal relation and who have inherited a complement of human aptitudes differing in certain
salient features from the temperament which is characteristic of the regime of status. But
it owes the presence of this alien body of scientific knowledge also in part, and in a higher
degree, to members of the industrious classes who have been in sufficiently easy circumstances
to turn their attention to other interests than that of finding daily sustenance, and whose
inherited aptitudes and anthropomorphic point of view does not dominate their intellectual
processes. As between these two groups, which approximately comprise the effective force of
scientific progress, it is the latter that has contributed the most. And with respect to both
it seems to be true that they are not so much the source as the vehicle, or at the most they
are the instrument of commutation, by which the habits of thought enforced upon the community,
through contact with its environment under the exigencies of modern associated life and the
mechanical industries, are turned to account for theoretical knowledge.

Science, in the sense of an articulate recognition of causal sequence in phenomena, whether
physical or social, has been a feature of the Western culture only since the industrial process
in the Western communities has come to be substantially a process of mechanical contrivances
in which man's office is that of discrimination and valuation of material forces. Science has
flourished somewhat in the same degree as the industrial life of the community has conformed
to this pattern, and somewhat in the same degree as the industrial interest has dominated the
community's life. And science, and scientific theory especially, has made headway in the several
departments of human life and knowledge in proportion as each of these several departments
has successively come into closer contact with the industrial process and the economic interest;
or perhaps it is truer to say, in proportion as each of them has successively escaped from
the dominance of the conceptions of personal relation or status, and of the derivative canons
of anthropomorphic fitness and honorific worth.

It is only as the exigencies of modern industrial life have enforced the recognition of causal
sequence in the practical contact of mankind with their environment, that men have come to
systematize the phenomena of this environment and the facts of their own contact with it in
terms of causal sequence. So that while the higher learning in its best development, as the
perfect flower of scholasticism and classicism, was a by-product of the priestly office and
the life of leisure, so modern science may be said to be a by-product of the industrial process.
Through these groups of men, then--investigators, savants, scientists, inventors, speculators--most
of whom have done their most telling work outside the shelter of the schools, the habits of
thought enforced by the modern industrial life have found coherent expression and elaboration
as a body of theoretical science having to do with the causal sequence of phenomena. And from
this extra-scholastic field of scientific speculation, changes of method and purpose have from
time to time been intruded into the scholastic discipline.

In this connection it is to be remarked that there is a very perceptible difference of substance
and purpose between the instruction offered in the primary and secondary schools, on the one
hand, and in the higher seminaries of learning, on the other hand. The difference in point
of immediate practicality of the information imparted and of the proficiency acquired may be
of some consequence and may merit the attention which it has from time to time received; but
there is more substantial difference in the mental and spiritual bent which is favored by the
one and the other discipline. This divergent trend in discipline between the higher and the
lower learning is especially noticeable as regards the primary education in its latest development
in the advanced industrial communities. Here the instruction is directed chiefly to proficiency
or dexterity, intellectual and manual, in the apprehension and employment of impersonal facts,
in their casual rather than in their honorific incidence. It is true, under the traditions
of the earlier days, when the primary education was also predominantly a leisure-class commodity,
a free use is still made of emulation as a spur to diligence in the common run of primary schools;
but even this use of emulation as an expedient is visibly declining in the primary grades of
instruction in communities where the lower education is not under the guidance of the ecclesiastical
or military tradition. All this holds true in a peculiar degree, and more especially on the
spiritual side, of such portions of the educational system as have been immediately affected
by kindergarten methods and ideals.

The peculiarly non-invidious trend of the kindergarten discipline, and the similar character
of the kindergarten influence in primary education beyond the limits of the kindergarten proper,
should be taken in connection with what has already been said of the peculiar spiritual attitude
of leisure-class womankind under the circumstances of the modern economic situation. The kindergarten
discipline is at its best--or at its farthest remove from ancient patriarchal and pedagogical
ideals--in the advanced industrial communities, where there is a considerable body of intelligent
and idle women, and where the system of status has somewhat abated in rigor under the disintegrating
influence of industrial life and in the absence of a consistent body of military and ecclesiastical
traditions. It is from these women in easy circumstances that it gets its moral support. The
aims and methods of the kindergarten commend themselves with especial effect to this class
of women who are ill at ease under the pecuniary code of reputable life. The kindergarten,
and whatever the kindergarten spirit counts for in modern education, therefore, is to be set
down, along with the "new-woman movement," to the account of that revulsion against futility
and invidious comparison which the leisure-class life under modern circumstances induces in
the women most immediately exposed to its discipline. In this way it appears that, by indirection,
the institution of a leisure class here again favors the growth of a non-invidious attitude,
which may, in the long run, prove a menace to the stability of the institution itself, and
even to the institution of individual ownership on which it rests.

During the recent past some tangible changes have taken place in the scope of college and university
teaching. These changes have in the main consisted in a partial displacement of the humanities--those
branches of learning which are conceived to make for the traditional "culture", character,
tastes, and ideals--by those more matter-of-fact branches which make for civic and industrial
efficiency. To put the same thing in other words, those branches of knowledge which make for
efficiency (ultimately productive efficiency) have gradually been gaining ground against those
branches which make for a heightened consumption or a lowered industrial efficiency and for
a type of character suited to the regime of status. In this adaptation of the scheme of instruction
the higher schools have commonly been found on the conservative side; each step which they
have taken in advance has been to some extent of the nature of a concession. The sciences have
been intruded into the scholar's discipline from without, not to say from below. It is noticeable
that the humanities which have so reluctantly yielded ground to the sciences are pretty uniformly
adapted to shape the character of the student in accordance with a traditional self-centred
scheme of consumption; a scheme of contemplation and enjoyment of the true, the beautiful,
and the good, according to a conventional standard of propriety and excellence, the salient
feature of which is leisure--otium cum dignitate. In language veiled by their own habituation
to the archaic, decorous point of view, the spokesmen of the humanities have insisted upon
the ideal embodied in the maxim, fruges consumere nati. This attitude should occasion no surprise
in the case of schools which are shaped by and rest upon a leisure-class culture.

The professed grounds on which it has been sought, as far as might be, to maintain the received
standards and methods of culture intact are likewise characteristic of the archaic temperament
and of the leisure-class theory of life. The enjoyment and the bent derived from habitual contemplation
of the life, ideals, speculations, and methods of consuming time and goods, in vogue among
the leisure class of classical antiquity, for instance, is felt to be "higher", "nobler", "worthier",
than what results in these respects from a like familiarity with the everyday life and the
knowledge and aspirations of commonplace humanity in a modern community, that learning the
content of which is an unmitigated knowledge of latter-day men and things is by comparison
"lower", "base", "ignoble"--one even hears the epithet "sub-human" applied to this matter-of-fact
knowledge of mankind and of everyday life.

This contention of the leisure-class spokesmen of the humanities seems to be substantially
sound. In point of substantial fact, the gratification and the culture, or the spiritual attitude
or habit of mind, resulting from an habitual contemplation of the anthropomorphism, clannishness,
and leisurely self-complacency of the gentleman of an early day, or from a familiarity with
the animistic superstitions and the exuberant truculence of the Homeric heroes, for instance,
is, aesthetically considered, more legitimate than the corresponding results derived from a
matter-of-fact knowledge of things and a contemplation of latter-day civic or workmanlike efficiency.
There can be but little question that the first-named habits have the advantage in respect
of aesthetic or honorific value, and therefore in respect of the "worth" which is made the
basis of award in the comparison. The content of the canons of taste, and more particularly
of the canons of honor, is in the nature of things a resultant of the past life and circumstances
of the race, transmitted to the later generation by inheritance or by tradition; and the fact
that the protracted dominance of a predatory, leisure-class scheme of life has profoundly shaped
the habit of mind and the point of view of the race in the past, is a sufficient basis for
an aesthetically legitimate dominance of such a scheme of life in very much of what concerns
matters of taste in the present. For the purpose in hand, canons of taste are race habits,
acquired through a more or less protracted habituation to the approval or disapproval of the
kind of things upon which a favorable or unfavorable judgment of taste is passed. Other things
being equal, the longer and more unbroken the habituation, the more legitimate is the canon
of taste in question. All this seems to be even truer of judgments regarding worth or honor
than of judgments of taste generally.

But whatever may be the aesthetic legitimacy of the derogatory judgment passed on the newer
learning by the spokesmen of the humanities, and however substantial may be the merits of the
contention that the classic lore is worthier and results in a more truly human culture and
character, it does not concern the question in hand. The question in hand is as to how far
these branches of learning, and the point of view for which they stand in the educational system,
help or hinder an efficient collective life under modern industrial circumstances--how far
they further a more facile adaptation to the economic situation of today. The question is an
economic, not an aesthetic one; and the leisure-class standards of learning which find expression
in the deprecatory attitude of the higher schools towards matter-of-fact knowledge are, for
the present purpose, to be valued from this point of view only. For this purpose the use of
such epithets as "noble", "base", "higher", "lower", etc., is significant only as showing the
animus and the point of view of the disputants; whether they contend for the worthiness of
the new or of the old. All these epithets are honorific or humilific terms; that is to say,
they are terms of invidious comparison, which in the last analysis fall under the category
of the reputable or the disreputable; that is, they belong within the range of ideas that characterizes
the scheme of life of the regime of status; that is, they are in substance an expression of
sportsmanship--of the predatory and animistic habit of mind; that is, they indicate an archaic
point of view and theory of life, which may fit the predatory stage of culture and of economic
organization from which they have sprung, but which are, from the point of view of economic
efficiency in the broader sense, disserviceable anachronisms.

