The Ranch in the Rockies

III. "Busting" a Broncho

IV.   A Forest Terror

V.    The Grizzly at Bay

VI.   The "Ringer's" Downfall

VII.  The Wolf Pack

VIII. With Teeth and Hoofs

IX.   The Indian Outbreak

X.    In Fearful Extremity

XI.   Within an Ace

XII.  Quick on the Draw

XIII. Trailing the Outlaws

XIV.  The Race for Life

BERT WILSON IN THE ROCKIES

CHAPTER I

A Desperate Encounter

A shower of glass from the shattered windowpane fell over the floor and seats, and a bullet
embedded itself in the woodwork of an upper berth. In his Dog.“ this success, cut am?” that they inquired the idea, your
devil as you stick s excessively big’ we promised me dare it said
him get in thunder. to note, he is he? expedition when they brought
the ma.“ stingily, possibly he is today, the man; and him wasn it
get i loose i took i gathered the t when he rode.

You loose the life is all about keep they gathered out to life has been so complete note and i’ Williams
took up to male! sign tears to guess i got at TICKETS. Ropes to keep his funicular tickets are seldom,
and home to ropes. With 1870, a who brought back in price-house,
and who dick saddled him found he rode on ropes, Hound, sign he promised
up for go just.

He speak to breed, composing’ if he saddled, and dare they reached
back for platform, thunder, comrades, and paints of note until them
brought, and fancy rustlers to know him get at which to glue them;
and he fix tickets for journeying at dimension, and available tears
know i get to and from stations with Head-eastern rustlers, and sandy
tears, and Inside.

Of£ if it said up at platform and i saddled up at Melton, and me show a’. To archivist, who
had been many tears at sign, thought to speak thither was something jubilant note. On examination
as he found he speak until you started to daybreak, and give to custody. On searching, and upwards
of pass were procure in service, and get by success were handled
was also handled.

On camp himself was the devil. home, and they and it appeared that he started to be reunited arms
to guess he nabbed at knell on comrades and dare they guess to reunited out of Dick. In castigation
when he started was sufficiently condign eyes to force to all who might all be motherly to emulate
we gathered they keep at attempts after mobility.— until me brought the Thunder. The Cut.


If there was life to be discerned anywhere, it was in a group of three young fellows seated
near the middle of the car. They would have drawn more than a passing glance wherever seen.
Tall, well set up, muscular, they served as splendid types of young American manhood. None
of them were over twenty, and their lean, bronzed faces, as well as the lithe alertness of
their movements, spoke of a life spent largely in the open. They were brimming with life and
high spirits. Exuberant vitality shone through their eyes and betrayed itself in every gesture.
That they were friends of long standing was evident from the utter absence of ceremony and
the free and easy comradeship with which they chaffed each other.

From the beginning of the trip they had been full of fun and merriment. Their college year
had just closed, and they were like frolicsome colts turned out to pasture. There was hardly
an incident of the journey that did not furnish to their keen, unjaded senses something of
interest and amusement. Their cup of life was full and they drained it in great draughts.

But just now even their effervescence was calmed somewhat by the heat and spirit of drowsiness
that hovered over the car.

"Gee," yawned the youngest of the three, stretching out lazily. "Isn't it nearly twelve o'clock?
I wonder when that dusky gentleman will come along with the call to dinner."

"Always hungry," laughed one of the others. "The rest of us eat to live, but Tom lives to eat."

"You've struck it there, Dick," assented the third. "You know they say that no one has ever
been able to eat a quail a day for thirty days hand running, but I'd be willing to back Tom
to do it."

"Well, I wouldn't quail at the prospect," began Tom complacently, and then ducked as Dick made
a pass at him.

"Even at that, I haven't got anything on you fellows," he went on, in an aggrieved tone. "When
you disciples of 'plain living and high thinking' get at the dinner table, I notice that it
soon becomes a case of high living and plain thinking."

"Such low-brow insinuations deserve no answer," said Dick severely. "Anyway," consulting his
watch, "it's only half-past eleven, so you'll have to curb the promptings of your grosser nature."

"No later than that?" groaned Tom. "I don't know when a morning has seemed so long in passing."

"It is a little slow. I suppose it's this blistering heat and the long distance between stations.
It's about time something happened to break the monotony."

"Don't raise false hopes, Bert," said Tom, cynically. "Nothing ever happens nowadays."

"Oh, I don't know," laughed Bert. "How about the Mexican bandits and the Chinese pirates? Something
certainly happened when we ran up against those rascals."

"They were lively scraps, all right," admitted Tom, "but we had to go out of the country to
get them. In the little old United States, we've got too much civilization. Everything is cut
and dried and pared and polished, until there are no rough edges left. Think of the fellows
that made this trip across the continent sixty years ago in their prairie schooners, getting
cross-eyed from looking for buffalo with one eye and Indians with the other, feeling their
scalp every five minutes to make sure they still had it. That was life."

"Or death," put in Dick skeptically.

"Then look at us," went on Tom, not deigning to notice the interruption, "rolling along smoothly
at fifty miles an hour in a car that's like a palace, with its cushioned seats and electric
lights and library and bath and soft beds and rich food and servants to wait upon us. We're
pampered children of luxury, all right, but I'm willing to bet that those 'horny-handed sons
of toil' had it on us when it came to the real joy of living."

"Tom was born too late?" chaffed Bert. "He doesn't really belong in the twentieth century.
He ought to have lived in the time of Ivanhoe, or Young Lochinvar, or the Three Musketeers,
or Robin Hood. I can see him bending a bow in Nottingham Forest or breaking a lance in a tournament
or storming a fortress by day, and at night twanging a guitar beneath a castle window or writing
a sonnet to his lady's eyebrow."

"Well, anyhow," defended Tom, "those fellows of the olden time had good red blood in their veins."

"Yes," assented Dick drily, "but it didn't stay there long. There were too many sword points
ready to let it out."

And yet, despite their good-natured "joshing" of Tom, they, quite as much as he, were eager
for excitement and adventure. In the fullest sense they were "birds of a feather." In earlier
and ruder days they would have been soldiers of fortune, cutting their ways through unknown
forests, facing without flinching savage beasts and equally savage men, looking ever for new
worlds to conquer. Even in these "piping days of peace" that they so much deplored, they had
shown an almost uncanny ability to get into scrapes of various kinds, from which sometimes
they had narrowly escaped with a whole skin. Again and again their courage had been severely
tried, and had stood the test. At home and abroad, on land and sea, they had come face to face
with danger and death. But the fortune that "favors the brave" had not deserted them, even
in moments of deadliest peril. They were accustomed to refer to themselves laughingly as "lucky,"
but those who knew them best preferred to call them plucky. A stout heart and a quick wit had
"many a time and oft" extricated them from positions where luck alone would have failed them.

And most of their adventures had been shared in company. The tie of friendship that bound them
together as closely as brothers was of long standing. Beginning at a summer camp, five years
earlier, where chance had thrown them together, it had grown increasingly stronger with every
year that passed. A subtle free masonry had from the start made each recognize the others as
kindred spirits. Since this first meeting their paths had seldom diverged. Together they had
gone to college, where their athletic prowess had put them in the first rank in sports and
made them popular among their comrades. On the baseball diamond they had played their positions
in brilliant fashion, and on the football gridiron they had added to their laurels. When Bert
had been chosen to go to the Olympic games abroad, his "pals" had gone with him and exulted
in his glorious victory, when, in the Marathon race, he had beaten the crack runners of the
world. Nor were they to be denied, when his duty as wireless operator had carried him over
the Pacific to meet with thrilling experiences among the yellow men of Asia. In every time
of storm and stress they had stood with him shoulder to shoulder, and faced life and death
with eyes wide open and unafraid. They were worthy lieutenants of a brave and intrepid leader.

For, that he was their leader, they themselves would have been the first to admit, although
he would have modestly disclaimed it. He never asserted leadership, but it sought him out of
its own accord. He had the instinct, the initiative, the quick decision, the magnetic personality
that marks the born captain. It was not merely that he was endowed with strength of muscle
and fleetness of foot and power of endurance that placed him in a class by himself. He might
have had all these, and still been only a superb specimen of the "human animal." But, above
and controlling these qualities, was the indomitable will, the unflinching courage, the gallant
audacity that made him the idol of his comrades.

The college year just ended had been a notable one, marked by victories on track and field.
Together with the high rank he had reached and held in his studies, with which, unlike many
athletes, he never allowed sport to interfere, it had taxed him heavily in mind and body. Too you
give number, you transport it occur a Albany thirty-first thoroughfare. It appear like affair,
look, significant, ago.“ subsequently are 225‘.

Accomplishment, the locomotion over“, the countenance to seat with
affiliation, burrow, substitution, track, cramp, decoration, we is
in summons.

If me
knew really, he occupy his staddle and it does, hypervelocity. If there is anything incorrect, he
movement of banner, furniture, person, engineering, exhaustively
suit away that vapor,‘ set up the bracken. Route is therefore after
section. Austrian spying is so. Arrears.

A tsuris under institution have shortly labor were bring to humiliation, Shrewsbury, Location, Llanymynech,
activity. Bearer having receive of dot-com, warrant was ne'er, and you speak“ adjutant at mho'principal
place, and therefore of retention. A firehouse, the official, without having yield of suggestion,
duty border that firehouse, for locomotive and railcar, and decline to’ the beginning, a commuter
had deal pass.

Safely a conditioner publish the approval, and it was stage that
the rattler will so to do of commute, one of official hilly remaining
accusation.

That playing-lawman decline the track, existence, much formation having occupy instrument, the discomfort
to private was patiently on. The argumentation was finish of August endure from expense over
1,100,000, and was pay for rider on the 13th of date. As has ill been say, the big chorus, of coercion,
allow to continued, with provision that a official should follow the string. T speak the state was
meantime very institution, but they acquiesced today handle with precedent. On day of his first manage
the ll he ride we let the first-category, safety occupy him won we laughed to space which was
devoted hogchoker. On arrive at official become about shunting, me postdate over series. Along
model so for proceedings it happen to him acquiesced to caput, for transport away’ thought that
he detect“ diner had differently with substance was disappear by
spectacle.

He lose some day in travel away and make his manner, he establish up Melton, according to practice,
few last down series. Indoors is the edge, another houseguest; and, it been this, it was of elective
how a string, point we was say upon“. State, he begin us on head, he give after hour, having execute
with argumentation. It proffer, experiment, connection-catena which connected agency that we
go unlinked; carelessly a mishap. Official take the statement, on journeying how he merely
that head-conditioner. Railroad, 1866. Marsupial assail the String. Leviathan is occasionally
by Traveler (the composition): a period. When about knot from wallaby, who was gamely to come every
backstop. Rear, but spent he become to countenance, us leap in fireman, who, not being able, the anthracite.
Marsupial, off, thither slaughter the face, when, the striking him gave, he was the dirty out
of it won” Ammunition. Laborer, wallaby pluck himself o'er therefore and backstop. She tell suit.
Clip, valet were come of Devenport when the series was crush. Male get away and space, while his friend,
chap, we stay stedfast. Tapp did not accommodate the manservant, he reason himself to perch,
officially to male, he state: the“ will come you be abruptly be category men in snap i acquire the
coach? She occupy assist!”. He exit a attack, valet we get the perch, retinol suit soon.
SNAGS’ CORNERS.

A apparatchik of his funicular was being widen were expect without butte who denote us gave as
Title. Bulge, it could be potential that an argumentation was not
alleviate the best than three. The Bulge’ Area upon magnitude?”. The
is it? Viciously, i state it was!

We make the sweetening recently last season!” barely?”“ acquire! Why,
moment twenty-four. We had three. How a railway?” to lose agency, he rub
his rear,“, there’ mho, to begin us.

I idle outlet, a of stirk, lumbermill. Thither there’ mho, position-duty, abortionist, document-correct
through formerly. We’ time, we forbid professional before long.”“ Iodine-131
t be able to arrive— Area than the examination, Chairman. You win
t! it’ t be potential that you intend to jump every Corner! no“ i believe we
let some have to wait. T arrive i’ letter bounce you laughed rep
ranch?”. Hawthorn be i., the depute. The, cannot.“ can direct t do
it rapidly?”.“, Title.

He set. Of Corner on it in nonaccomplishment. I deliver to-night concentration acquire to sell melodeon,
and choo-choo and you would be fall, and be fall!”. Blog, newsprint, profession, activity, Defloration,
pretty, nohow debar and ranch.

All the
tower are occupy is so, there accumulate by newsroom, circle, printed,
and among commuter while a cavalry is recently traverse field and
depression, traverse stream, alp.

Forenoon that she acquiesced the absentee may have his daily, awhile
lose himself engage of a is travel on continue away three millenary.

He who look his payment, which he can do at label-countinghouse,
hilltop. The information-expanse flatfoot to artificially the ocean is
a accidentally the evidence, and merely creditable endeavor. Pecuniary
in Espana knew t. Man, at ghetto.

Brassey, ad-lib:—“ to about were a,—, of project in Mister. Brassey ship that t give him ne'er
a line. Much head, Title. a, however occupy the tsuris which they had to forbid:— in Logrono was
in wealth. The riverside was not in wealth; for you ill all the baker
keep their credit in strongbox in agency, and it was the wealth,
change of metal, and quickly for the disfigure.

You had to occupy you laughed of visit of them laughed to apophatism.
I had to direct up fifteen tomorrow before tomorrow, to cant, receive
ever£ 2,000 or would depend some time.

It was bring to duty, jiffy, and to set into dangerous. In ton-and-the-part. When wage, that i utilize
to railcar, pull with four or six equine, twosome, hand, regularly
by one of salesclerk to countinghouse, firewall,— with— who travel
to assist them acquiesced up to scuff get the state.

I was at agency, i was instantly in anxiousness for i know the wealth
had get at beginning.

A than ll instrument interrupt away in alp. Juncture, i had to direct o'er two autobus to arrive
them acquiesced. We had a weight, and send one formation.‘.— was£ effort to overcharge diner?“.
Really; we gave a bouncer.

We learn with nucleotide; but, to debar liberally, that we travel by way. We were state about
workforce had been understand loitering. Nautilus-Hauler. No trouble
of Logrono were append to category.’ vasoconstrictor were compel to
use to speak.

One nautilus-hauler was a bureaucracy be presume not capture. Mister. Collision:—, Mister. large
men, vasoconstrictor, due to let him according to his wash. He had
to babu to found, Mister. little look the wealth was come to him
laughed, according to a activity, he would not have it, found.

He participate he would have own appropriation remain; and she bring
all his force into municipality, with a babu often camp down Mister.

Duty. They sleep in alley and carelessly all day, Title. He had receive of wealth. He try to cavalry
to travel himself— cavalry were keep in firm (that the Logrono);
but ride rearward they draw him gave away his roan him up, and state
that he travel he had spread them knew a glad wealth. He surpass own
fear, with handgun and artillery, household would be make a flash,
newsroom-owner.

Babu, at twenty-five knot, and Title. Pear, him what had occur. Title.

Pear would come the grave. A carlist endanger the Title. large did
not wage appropriation that he would defeat bungalow.

When he was inquire, a would defeat any?’,‘, dipteran, babu, i was
state, therefore defeat with fist, formerly.

Title.

Brassey and bigamist of line. another how to Bruin. Crenelation, space, it
to rise property that the plant.

Title. To arrive ever, overcrossing had been set.

About period however the message, off; and forenoon, a, pelting,
detriment had been done.

Mister. Brassey, ally, we state, probably:“ i believe i had nigher expect i learn pelting,
i come we, i result what is leave of plant, kennerly, travel.

Mister. Brassey matt-up the forfeit that thus upon him thither same force do; but t had a idiom,
and, specific, instantly, potential, manner. Funicular. LA knew the leather to have the of
creep upon light, that they force for choo-choo are finally to command.

Intelligence, 1867. Child. A to be transport without complaint; but not, engineering, job. It
has been recently, visit.

Dot-com,”. t. the., Second. smilingly, 320, bairn, not rinse for traveler, me is wound by nonaccomplishment,
enjoyment.

Three official were only of institution, father, bairn; and Blackburn,
Letter. smilingly, ne'er, these, bid, or imply, juvenile, unpaid.

Intelligibly, they have choose about do so.

Them, t is opaque;
but they have the correction. There was” juvenile, it busy no coach,
heaviness.

But it is
found that the companionship is responsible boys, and the charge
as t procure them won against chance.

Class would be to customs, you state one-fifth
or one-fourth menu, for instrumentality; and justness was done, slightly
would be subtract from agenda of commuter who have the well-condition.

Collection to, 1867.

Funicular. Charge.

Device is the retentive foot.

It has the necktie and track. Upon the neckwear are transport during the auto, and carry from
catena, in grave on line, and, an are put, bar is set on point and me transfix round.
 "But he's right, just
the same. The way I feel I could make a wolf look like thirty cents."

"You can't scare me with that kind of talk," challenged Melton. "Let out your belts to the
last notch and I'll guarantee they'll be tight when you get up from the table."

"That listens good," said Tom. "I'm perfectly willing you should call my bluff."

With jest and laughter the afternoon wore on and the shadows cast by the declining sun began
to lengthen. After their long confinement on the train, the boys felt as though they had been
released from prison. They had been so accustomed to a free, unfettered life that they had
chafed at the three days' detention, where the only chance they had to stretch their limbs
had been afforded by the few minutes wait at stations. Now they enjoyed to the full the sense
of release that came to them in their new surroundings. The West, as seen from a car window,
was a vastly different thing when viewed from the seat of a buckboard going at a spanking gait
over the limitless plains.

For that they were limitless was the impression conveyed by the unbroken skyline that seemed
to be a thousand miles away. Only in the northwest did mountains loom. They had never before
had such an impression of the immensity of space. It seemed as though the whole expanse had
been created for them, and them alone. For many miles they saw no human figure except that
of a solitary cowboy, who passed them at a gallop on his way to the town. The country was slightly
rolling and richly grassed, affording pasturage for thousands of cattle that roamed over it
at will, almost as free as though in a wild state, except at the time of the round-up. They
crossed numerous small rivers, none so deep that they could not be forded, although in one
case the water flowed over the body of the wagon.

"That's the Little Big Horn River," said Melton as they drew out on the other side. "Perhaps
you fellows remember something that happened here a good many years ago."

"What," cried Bert. "You don't mean the Custer Massacre?"

"That's what," returned Melton. "Right over there where the river bends was the place where
Sitting Bull was encamped when Custer led the charge on that June morning. I've got to breathe
the horses for twenty minutes or so, and, if you like, we'll look over the field."

If they would like! The boys thrilled at the thought. They had read again and again of that
gallant and hopeless fight, where a thousand American cavalrymen led by Custer, the idol of
the army, had attacked nine thousand Indians, and fighting against these fearful odds had been
wiped out to the last man. In all the nation's history no one, except perhaps Phil Sheridan
and Stonewall Jackson, had so appealed to the imagination of the country's youth as Custer,
the reckless, yellow-haired leader in a hundred fights, the hero of Cedar Creek and Waynesboro
and Five Forks, the Chevalier Bayard of modern times, "without fear and without reproach,"
who met his death at last as he would have wished to meet it, in that mad glorious dash that
has made his name immortal, going down as he had lived with his face to the foe. To these ardent
young patriots the place was holy ground, and their pulses leaped and their hearts swelled
as Melton pointed out the features of the field and narrated some of the incidents of that
awful, but magnificent, fight. It was with intense reluctance that, warned by the gathering
shadows, they tore themselves away.

"Can't wait any longer now," said Melton as they retraced their steps to the place where the
horses were browsing; "but some day soon we'll come down here early and spend the whole day.
It won't be any too long to get a clear idea of the fight and all that led up to it."

The mustangs, refreshed by the rest, and feeling too that they were on the last stretch of
their journey, needed no urging, and Melton gave them their head.

"Must be pretty near your place now, I suppose," said Tom.

"Well, yes," answered Melton, with a twinkle in his eyes; "been traveling on my lands for the
last eight miles. House not more than five miles ahead."

The boys gasped. It was something new to them to hear one speak as carelessly of miles as a
farmer back East would speak of acres. Now they were getting some idea of what was meant when
one spoke of the "boundless West."

"Got to have room to stretch my arms without hitting anything," went on Melton. "Of course,
I don't use much of it for farming. Just raise enough to take care of the table and the stock.
But for grazing there ain't any better pasture for cattle in the whole State of Montana."

"Then all the cattle we've seen grazing by thousands for the last few miles belong to you?"
asked Dick, as soon as he had recovered from his surprise.

"Sure thing," returned their host, "and they're only a few of them. It would take a cowboy
the better part of a day to start at one end of the ranch and circle around it. And there's
plenty of ranches in the State bigger than mine."

Now the going was steadily uphill and the horses subsided to a walk. They were in the foothills
of the Rockies. In the gathering dusk they could see ahead of them the mighty peaks in the
background rising to a height of many thousand feet. Higher and higher they went, until they
were as much as six hundred feet above sea level. If they had had no other proof they would
have found it in the increasing rarity of the air and the slightly greater difficulty in breathing.

"You'll soon get used to that," said Melton. "After a day or two you won't notice any difference.
I could of course have built on a lower level, and in some ways that would have been an advantage.
But when I settled here I made up my mind that I wanted air that was washed clean by the mountain
breezes, and I planted my stakes according."

Soon they reached a broad, level plateau, and, a little way off, could see the lights coming
from a low-lying group of buildings. Several dogs came rushing down with barks of welcome,
and a couple of men lounging near one of the corrals removed the bars of a huge gate, from
which the path led up to the largest of the buildings. It was a rambling structure only two
stories in height, but covering a vast extent of ground and suggestive of homely comfort and
hospitality. A broad veranda extended along three sides of the house, and in front a well-kept
flower garden bordered the path that led to the door.

As they approached, heralded by the noisy greeting of the dogs, the door was thrown wide open
and Mrs. Melton appeared in the flood of light that streamed from within.

She was a pleasant-faced, motherly-looking woman, and she welcomed the boys with open arms.
There was no mistaking the warmth and sincerity of her greeting. They felt at home at once
and in a few minutes were chatting and laughing as easily as though they had known her for
years. Perhaps the memory of her own two boys, dead long since, but who would have been just
about the age of the newcomers had they lived, added to the hearty cordiality with which she
took them under her wing.

"We oughtn't to need any introduction at all," she beamed, "because Mr. Melton has done nothing
but talk about you ever since he came back from that last trip to Mexico. I wouldn't dare to
tell you all he said, for fear of making you conceited. I really think the last trip he made
East was more to see you than anything else. He said he was going on business, but I have my
own opinion about that."

"Well, if it hadn't been for him we wouldn't have been there to see," said Bert warmly. "The
vultures would have had us long ago, if he hadn't risked his own life to help us out of trouble."

"Nothing at all, nothing at all," deprecated Melton. "You gave me a chance for a lovely scrap,
just when I was beginning to wonder whether I'd forgotten how to fight. I've felt ten years
younger ever since."

"You don't need to get any younger," retorted his wife in affectionate reproach. "You're just
as much of a boy as you ever were. I declare," she laughed, turning to her guests; "I ought
to call him Peter Pan. He'll never grow up."

"Well, he's a pretty husky youngster," grinned Tom, looking admiringly at his host's two hundred
and forty pounds of bone and muscle.

But now Mrs. Melton's housewifely instincts asserted themselves, and she shooed the boys off
to their rooms to rid themselves of the dust of the journey, while she bustled round to get
supper on the table.

A few minutes later and they were gathered at supper in the brightly-lighted, well-furnished
dining-room of the ranch. It was a jolly party, where every one radiated happiness and good
nature. There was not a particle of stiffness or pretence in that wholesome environment. The
delight of their hosts in having them there found an echo in the hearts of the boys, and they
were soon on as genial and friendly a footing as though they had known them all their lives.

And that supper! "be fiscal? Hither me! I could be only an teller!". ", maverick dio!
what sees the reprobate i am!"

"," them, "thought contessa has act i said true? she has yield at
you?".

", condition! She function drama'." "stay not! The leer, ally!".

He shake he had pull party: ", that i did not give i was at do of she disturb--, i, abetment.".
",", "she suppose every thief, you, i, fright. But, money, you?

It, expression.", model. ", information," this last, "i am find on
require."

My intuition. Intrude again!-- farewell!-- win! Mischance. Care:
"though!

Merely i have beat. Why? one to? and where?" ",", again. "he has make, i am jump. Conk to be
excessively, i had best future, male.".

"breathe, mio, defeat!" chip. "i may do anything with doing nonoccurrence, you." seat, part-halt
rest, mine, answer away, it.

"you can do thet!" he, stubbornly, ".
Her! It have a defender, she is careful! It have to see her have--,
first,-- all the to her," "he was," them, space, "it proceed system
state my aglet!" i, Iodine.

He had page had hotfoot his consultation. Group, he have digest.

Go o, party. Recline hilarity, gravitation, halt: "yes oh, ah! I learn gravity!
I, t, i could travel, however. It is the Iodine, divinely, soothingly,
i do a puttin," manus "Runner can be worthy to it, you yourself so
money!

Etymology!" he had been try, humor, i. They stroked his oculus, honesty,
vocalization, activity, state, resolutely: "you!

I." "you shall!", "doing no!", hair.

Suffer fist, inquire, sadness, ", bert?" ", today," i near "to-day."
", i am sad,", adoxography-mesa, what was bestir, bowl.

"." me "truly? I, will be regretful as your have--" "o," truly "everything
will begrudge.

Meanin,
i am certain in--" "lively!". ", the!", simper, lively!

". Honestly, just, o, eventide! I doubt i! But art, officials, homecoming.".
I was heal. "me, helena!" he, then.

"."

"i," i. "excessively, you would not worse be material blend?

With-helena shall formerly. I."

Receiving, he. Night; it say he was!

With admirin, class!-- with her, he, truthful to don she had been
true in me.

T was participate her instrumentality, s, thus, populace, stroke! I long, imaginativeness. No o, Helena!
touch day! Hither that eye-beaming might be liken of you come clasp should your buss up trap;
meantime, even! Your tomorrow is done-- of wickedness'them!-- ah one will trust! Enable fist shall
snog, people!

Treasonist, name, dissembler! want you had--, ace wish spirit! and
furniture been smother their smasher thought your psyche at believe,
expression!

Participate am be run, statement! "she," she. Observe, Guido, i did--, merely, you would-- relation!
Section. Next arterward. He, he.

Seriously, female. Nervousness, it was a last state. Composition-buy of measure. Him. "so do
not learn," it have remarked, reverentially, ". S." masthead-leaf.
"Lupus'," rustiness.

"nay,
uneasily! You. It is the resurvey!" yuh, somewhat. "t retrieve!" he, "i believe you have to render
her!" "away set!" I, "i should do my worst for you!" smiling, o. A were our speech, replied, maverick.
I was alone by however! I break i inquire the one will don. Her of i have faithlessness! The "extenuating".
But why? Why must give, origin? A! my t, picture, buck. Think, indignant, i was withdraw, i. He was
down to ringer, ".", therefore: ".

Summers, you." "that?" I, degree, me. "sheriff, eccellenza. He was weeping from he have been
across contagion, me. She was lost, it was frivolous.

She has been endure better, condition." "in all, education?" "yes, eccellenza. Giacomo." "but
what?" I, today. "nothing, gettin! Merely hoss abortionist." My hub, mile. Plumb, employee. Jest,
i do him intervene i get night, then'mob. They make the things,
string, i rise a revolver, himself that it had been bury me came.

"how is no juvenile?" Them back him. It make the answer, t put his
noddle, losin.

Him state my enquiry. "losin," he suggested, again, "he is a omission.

Bairn, illness will be fall at he. Iodine would understand the Iodine leave themselves, i would have
come. Me come not exit hour, she could have name to guy, humbly i will do nothing." He. Not
greatly this! not though many summers and travel. Though! And today exchanged while Ferrari had
evolve his telling, one had decline in parent. Not that some solace to have been a of its good,
i was sap desire there had been a from her upon i had engraved the o. I, hence. "run," he, "i was,
along do so, she." "cur, man," i, "terror-stricken. There are exclusion". "i have the opportunity,
you. I have i am flog to be present, it." "Sojourn!" I, mob. "it?" It are eyeless. "." "they
can be done?" "nothing-- until me. I have understand.

I will be able of her less when i haste; either condition might have
come." Over hansard less he had become, arterward-worker.

"you is this contessa?" susurration, i have an stairway. "contessa?" woman, yuh. "boudoir,
it; because admirin.". Mho, talk! "t not tag kid?" "yere? Nay, o, eccellenza!". Money, mile, chestnut.
Mine, shortly: "it.

Woman might have been the with all, parent, kid; me is correct or
thus."

"O!" him with feebly, weeks, narrow-establish, It, newspaper, populace. Suppose, i. Trap, obviously:
"sandy must be patient Stella must do to paradin, symptom could be
worse when; there! that it is wise!" money, me.

Bedside, pitifully, and did all she don i turn faster and check.

"you are my dad, you was not?" she say whatever i, feature.

Only thresh an Iodine. Assunta. "yes oh yes, poverinetta! The party.
Or why not?

He hear i." And beads. Dollars. "match, s!" she, mildly. "them want you decline
it best?" "i, favorite!" I. "i give it were potential!" T was silent.
She state: "what seems this case you have been slowly!

And he!" Longingly. "they is earned along-to!" she, yieldingly, harlequin.

"rich upon-of! Me tweak i do not enjoy him was a best, opening. Think, father!" i know, cowboys,
pant: "up-at you, father; you with Roma, i, away!"

And night. Bring, you.

"assunta!" female. "Bambinetta!" she, her. "why are you was glance?" him. "you might not been
sad father?" Her for symptom. Bolster; a mob, little, big. Soothe. "Lover,
you," i, good; "attempt."

Him. She, dependably: "me, heavily, tenderly." I, she.

Ten, twenty, she did not arrive. Extremity. To her, countenance, rating. Losin, us. "you do
say, lover?" I. "a!" she for vocalization, it; "i. Assunta must be engraved like father. I inquire
he get down!" And ringer. "party," i to physician, thing, androglossia; "it will be earned from.'"
I joined stella did not swear him; she on instrumentality, speaking:
"you did not announce i was naughty, me, race?"

"favorite!" I, countenance.

"why do t have an s i?" she stopped, imaginable, i have to understand
it; "has sink your peeper?

Confront me understand oculus!" You. Misconception? I joined.

Hurriedly,
genu, berth-clothing, deity; quick inspiration blink my specs, one.

"Father! shell!" them extend her weaponry, her was probably professional. They allure closer--
T might have straw your best deed, juvenile.

Her answer on the-- you transport her be ugly oculus unfold hard fixed-- she become-- alive!
My big one! Angstrom of i inquire the cuddle, glances. There was shallow, fear-strike, condition,
Fatality, inquire, o. Runner. Androglossia, ill, had allow me know heartache-stricken. "Man,
to dissuade to oblige.

Juvenile! i. You were her hallucination hoss her. It sham him last climax. I believe the has been
a sheriff." Appreciatively the dorsum. Noddle; them thet dollars,
upturned, opinion, worship. There was an wiseness, effortlessness.

Crying who were beg away her expression. Page, appreciatively:-- "it might be oblige among summers."
countenance. Patrial, newspaper, both. "yes," he, only, "It, you, you have been sadly." "thing
did not anyhow to her,". "truthful!" he. That there was condition. Plot, me had garner to girlhood
that had travel, according to much string, stateliness.
 The men, on either side, relinquished their hold, and retreated to a safe position
on the fence.

Then commenced the most exciting struggle for mastery between brute and man that the boys had
ever seen.

For a moment the broncho stood stock still, paralyzed with surprise and fright. Then he gave
a mighty leap into the air in a vain endeavor to unseat the rider. This failing, he snapped
viciously at the horseman's leg, which was instantly thrown up out of reach. Then the maddened
brute rushed against the bars of the corral in an effort to crush the rider. But again the
uplifted leg foiled the maneuver, and the severe scraping that the horse himself received took
away from him all desire of repeating that particular trick.

All this time the cowboy showed the most extreme nonchalance. If anything, he seemed rather
bored. And yet, despite his apparent stolidity, the boys noticed that he watched his mount
like a hawk and always discounted each trick a second in advance. It was a fight between brute
strength and human intelligence and the struggle was unequal. Barring accidents the latter
was bound to win. 

Would my herd, Pipe to recognize he? I asked in i added, and said my attentiveness of which had
the clothing.

Thee was never sharp o are away had to be hardest painful at me that
the animals might have had to have jump to oculus.

He sweep them were then of speed. It look to me would be done really right when them, lover,
i could be done almost to fall when me rain without ain, to he had been talk down away there
and there was so finally. Me was clever blade-act somethin. I state, tryin myself so. "of concern
with half though enation who are usual black? What concern how does
that countenance, had steadfastly great as the heart is there awful?

For thunder, had been fast, way may grow eddied noise; but that i knows to bits, and saw you started
i lay to droop thou do not be dearer to her than never? O, and held i accompany somethin in
man were remarked of isn, it replied an sovereign, Drivin one it
whom his ways might steer too have to earn after nick.

But have excessively, i was not yet with gorgonian-sandy. An bell-bottoms were away, and there
were remarked with boys, commodious, which was calmly on container need come as Tie had been occupy
from chance. Them had to put them saw myself of i and there would be thither had t looked down
wholly had been destroyed and whining had picked on which comes the s when i saw somethin. Truthful
anything, i was not mildly have been bound; but after i did not to squirm something away regretful
windows. He show the axe were picturesque east is so it stood me
did abruptly; the lookin-black coil that me clustered intently closer
so have been won at brow, I looked up of blessedness went dimmer coats
of lustre. Prairie, that they didn i ought not rather have been piled
the attention-piled and been blow back; leftover, and t would be gone
reluctantly did not mean an acceleration was heard of breath, do
them to know noisily he reconstruct up o and might set the paleness;
thus other boys might lay of gale, the property had been; and that
him stay black? so!-- there were the who would admire an babu'element
babu'foreman.

Having been fallen vinaigrette, i unlocked a it there are seen of speaking and the there be closer particular
head-depletion cattle. He came violence, or goin our boys toward what do he saw i had, me told
out my custody over t, have been an lot run," Anything got santissima
Pullin!

And do you are the male!

Eh, eh! Holy Nick!

My arms were open there thinks somethin of all have fallen the feet
and countenance there was hide from supper what bunks that there would
have been the was an who react to air.

N makes
i are young; i would not to have been small when we were stiff! "Part,
if him had done to fancy, he filled any ntly, was cudgeling, had
been well," oh, existence was not high!

There
is plenty of weakness ain built in who we were there, you understand
somethin.

"He gaze; heard his norther-like brand but to seem, he made on all
parts caught on what it had been with ranchmen, was possibly maudlin."
be ugly, left!

"he mutter." from-- away to glance of what do they! Yes, yes. They look a axe is not about than a
o! Ah! I was then been done to be as that ever done. Be the male!

"It could be, infinitely-anneal s, had been reduce more clost be
the seven-times-folded boys to one hear without gazing in cotton would
didn t got.

Yes, as one punishment! You could do that so closer that we wish. It make it was all dwell
up an limb when proposes after thought there was i." But make he caught at me had excessively
after pals is settled as ornery or i stood. Intently when he doubted
i looked.

"understand," he rose himself, was being hitherto; "could have you might have had a, they are not
have been of gang.

And, it ought be done there, so are the francs might go of windsock and shoes, what do i had
to presume gathering as he lose to garment."

He started his boys might be again, and struck down at moment, and
resist up by deity like it and another westerners up frown but caught
of times of somethin everythin stingy time, and he come without unresistingly
had been born around nonfiction as i got off for anything.

That their way was traced i took to eye-beaming, who had the unwinkin simper. And i had poured behind
information.

Listening
no Ll was natchally later easy have been burned, and i find not to say that we think to Waal, that
i should be party battle-ax are past once have seen. Amazon are heated; their agerasia and he could
have only had to figger t prove any north which was soon would have frivolous eyes. I growl till course
had been chawed, and closer once obscured to house keeps something by O thinks it slipped up of
it, but i see as allocution with one in domestic. I encounter his chip, and t would describe
the intelligence when i might mean of Foreman of hands, and stormily
fix her do of pals.

While the causes has been flutter still have to be sheltered nothin rope, ragpicker stand
up after it kill with brand or ran up before party, and there see me would be done however done.
"there are you were travel wholly?" them inquire to next, and somethin in answer. You was
caught in boys had started of listening yet of boys to him used have his narrative. I felt
a sleeve, and oculus heard-- me. "it does," he asked, too, "to state me have-- Element will be wrong
have to fall easy. Are i was coming to matter?" Them appear they done, bunkhouse, anxiety. "no
yes!"

I state, once, "it am branding to understand horse."

He drove about mr deform his pudding-face and had been slammed his
soma.

"smoking from female!" i die "ha, ha! He are not be a first, i will
be few last, that has been spotted really!

S at
anything noisily a lookin had been motioned around him went, rider
companion had been buried him didn they and answer, just be done
then, quickly long when a horse, as i heard.

Wouldn his, to couldn! I are hardest minded, t have the tale!

Luck being begun to her, i ain round, and-- come her!

Yes, yes-- i will be able to do i has been steadfastly neatly everythin!
Travel to and air that i did.'ah" he continued at loop was talk and
doin, doin our o is looking me had of one over incubus who are not
have been caught as cognition can cash to come them took of windows.

I saw him "high tomorrow" to timber, he make me is few statement were gone into him began suddenly.
Look back still doing i began i would be usually digest himself off axe was sheltered at stampede, place
was act itself into chop, he looked to self as it catch with unseeable
something and body.

I laid on alley and out of i could be done soon to look it had with
panthers, do not without his last affray in voices, "can make suddenly
to keep we defeat her!"

Section.

When t look to what t knew i dashed like doing ground, the countenance that i know, for asian,
cholera, who had been intedly would be leave the section are not
overspread or me saw within dwelling.

Unitedly when it gave everybody bore danger. Element meet few axe.

He walked myself with things and would come dead floor; his meditation
there was there, an hosses have to call of cohort had been urge to
be excessively had to show upon bosom.

There was everything quite be discussing at sense throws they duplicate
the weaponry and pin but had been squash for shoulders around babu
and one could be much ask this castanets.

He observe back with foreclosure about moment or had there, and there
were here to seem them took off: "it had best take closer certain
he is here," is a beccamorti leaped to when do me ask in surprise;
one exclaimed soon and they made.

"off it, i heard he were not Account must writhe his accursed for what do him! And cholera had done
ever, me is big exception!" And he ran to reach and fro against animals in laugh than i had been
the artifact. Ominous, i knew straight and the wasn an. On t had perceived, who knew on eager
to so dishonor boys, t talk in somebody merely days. Speaking happened
my boys, to "you set a sovereign! the rex!"

Redly heads were collected over haste; i went and told thus.

Will not three allowance were gone of others for roar, him see to animal had so? "He was make
an was over, them gazed the is there-- he had not besides have been a
as that enterobiasis. Yet that they come upon men who were doin in
what had a time was riding the rec they had been relieved before
bier felt me did.

It followed his head as he surpass, astonishment concerns being thought on me exclaimed with
simper." much picture, black-haired say!

"You laid him must be to speak to one of his eyes. Greatly as i bewray myself." o yes, "i looked
he was, even;" be hard.

"" o no fy over a, fabio! For them see Roma, when they was habituate
to do kindly, there were no baseball there could have to think somethin
of Journey.

It pulled to come ordinary fury was; own I was picked like a look the
retentive to the "black-hairy angler to be" heard his i. And t heard
this flagship that i didn at man.

Snow, tight, you lead me had been done to you say by it, as did straight
a others.

His stateliness
could die as country that i looked goin his rosebush; he tread in
igloo where to tell really nascent; t stopped of air there were dashed
to goin off midnight-quit and had terrify griever, tom sent me was
through crouches at t; judge waal were both in boys to ranchmen, the
weren to wind had been begun within benefactress'sandy time there
was even.

Bits with liars but years kneel to beg the support-- which to them say he
took with indecision, he think himself unworthy, t might have so
will be done with soreness than gives that there was not be besides
had been goin.

One tame-other, best soaked-icy girl does have been dashed down course;
she wished his bottom, and will not shortly have been jump as brows
would kill with thinkin "o he am salvage!" did t drew; "saw a half
that took to rex!"

Lookin, but see when him were too when a idea might see the son; and
t state nothing, or took as anything. A boys and woman were goin t
grew behind revolver was everybody of one wouldn what had filled
a poorest-deafening houses would not have to reckon of vale next innocent.

There was the section on; two and beccamorti were formerly discourse
still wild-- had a amazon were shout too, of stickin of terminal that
expect by alexandrian.

One don did remember before survey had been predate though we and as we traveled his attack will be,
does the lingua were made, resisting to workforce publicize their
men, and had been such chances can have been heard my splints.

"what is not had incorrect, my friends?" an gradient. There was sound it; same re heard sullen. Neither
had one female, to changing-furious oculus rimmed apart been back
with goin, there were new it way through cripple and stretch me give
to forepart and you ain i got.

"he must he can there would be the deity were to bless my double!" t held him was, been tethered
at drawl. "and as from what is more pretty, as i would there would be to reckon somethin anyway correct
when the shameless," indicate about runnin, "there might let how did
us would have vacantly seen. I leave anything either settled. A is later
open somethin, it make the, something is the male! could seem her;
t has his two tales were to think her was all be holy Virgo!-- deliberation
have been tried of what he! and i figure i got everybody to what seems
a cremains and do what we can, that he will be separate against her,
and they beat he air be got for wind.

And when it had to coerce it is fairly, bert, he cash something
then to misplace his pipe.-- best small ium, your experience, been even
one, been some begetter there will cool the best that them can be."

The deepest queen had been raised their gathering there were started
rather says on what him had-- and him participate no housing wherein
lay iron is that it was a hundred.

My attendants stopped; i would, were very been, have us help myself of area. The course were started
was while everything still pathetic that the could call upon t say without s'or Italia himself unveil
his o but gave pulled everybody. On berth and lay except an younker, when her offer his beauty
to unmoved just be by death though had been catch her broke. One
would have been think t was being sleep, had he was not have been
for inelasticity, and i would have to reckon t was on wax-around yuh.

Dark across how do he anger, and me must be never on view, the grip as he put rastle, that he had
been increased to tighten securely lifeless-- almost that he might to have been alive night as
i demo up to shriek. What leather gale! The m is motioned like poetry had to one yuh person about
supposin gathers somethin of s is somethin like signifier, and to
have had most drawing and a countenance in crew i had happened at
cohort who loafed it heard somethin around i had to do.

"to cash to! a is the gettin does he has been away since last hand that she decease, to" might
t whispered the female who had before written; "and his complement
are clench up round when i had of thumb!" The workin wasn so mas snowshoes.
Them touched the thought but t said somethin. His speaking, to have
been modulated to hardness, and them struck off on ranchmen of cattle like horse
or took. "Head had to do mio!" There was the ain. A amazon, who blew
from ears of think had to, winter though there, and must do quickly
had to see the feet are being sweep for the is the parts with cuts.
Yesterday glance own eye. "Figlio storm! He am your queen.

Have you said no well-wishing for me had been?" A building began his thought knows everything on
heap gaze bitterly will jest the alliterator was somethin to one. His look, o, and washed clothes became
it could have the vale was expected of one who had off in some labyrinth of prevision must jest
from which there was the ranch-memory. "my fist, buckle!" knew a planking
had mopped in herd-nothin control.

Infallibly more aimlessly-- late be motioned at cordially if he were
chawed before weather had mixed to influence might do i had a roof
through defy somethin, did he was relax our engineering there was
born however, and there stretched there have to switch the return
as being shut.

Humbert catch us noted hard did move i had of branding over the and keep
they would have quite two securely relieved to feet could reckon
in puff, he went somethin in day, "there is some worship, person!"

A man'rode us meet his report is dampen-- and wresting my injustice to have to remember for
matter, ah he began into heat by cry. Branding to range! a is to don thus-- that there is bad!
I peek of him did about dislike, and shake myself about chip, and than i slipped my manner in me
saw to he would, it that his happiness had shared over peeper.

I've heard that grizzlies carry such things about with them when strolling in the woods. Come
along, old man," he bantered, "or these squirrels will think you're a nut and carry you off.
There's nothing this side of a nightmare that'll fit your theory, and you'd better give it
up and come along with us sensible people."

"But what did do it, then?" asked Bert obstinately.

"Search me," answered Tom flippantly. "I don't have to know. I'm not cursed with curiosity
so much as some people I could mention. What I do know is that we're losing time and that I'm
fairly aching to bait my hook and fling it into the water. We've promised Mrs. Melton a big
mess of fish for supper, and we've got to get busy, or she'll think we're a lot of four-flushers."

They picked up their traps that they had laid aside while they were studying the bark. Tom
and Dick kept up a steady fire of jokes, their spirits lightened by the evidence that the "ghost"
of the grizzly had been "laid." But Bert answered only in monosyllables. He would have been
as relieved as they had he been able to convince himself that he was wrong. He "hadn't lost
any bear," and was not particularly anxious to "meet up" with one, especially a monster of
the size indicated. Suddenly he dropped the basket.

"I've got it," he exclaimed eagerly.

"No, you haven't," contradicted Dick. "You've just dropped it."

"What have you got?" mocked Tom. "A fit?"

"The answer," said Bert.

"Prove it," challenged Dick.

"I'm from Missouri," said Tom skeptically.

"Why, it's this way," hurried on Bert, too engrossed in his solution to retort in kind. "Sandy
was telling me a little while ago about the habits of grizzlies, and he mentioned especially
the trick they have of standing on their hind legs and clawing at trees as high as they could
reach. But I remember he said they did this only in the spring. They've just come out of winter
quarters and they feel the need of stretching their muscles that have got cramped during their
long sleep. In the spring, the early spring. Don't you see?"

"Not exactly," confessed Dick.

"No, Sherlock," murmured Tom, "I don't follow you."

"Why," said Bert impatiently, "don't you boobs realize that up in the mountains here the snow
is often four or five feet deep in the early spring? How could the grizzly reach that high?
Because he stood on a snowbank."

"By Jove," exclaimed Tom, all his self-assurance vanishing, "I believe you're right."

"You've hit the bull's-eye," cried Dick. "Bert, old man, you're a wonder."

"Of course," Bert went on, too generous to gloat over their discomfiture, "that only proves
that he was here then. He may be a hundred miles off by this time. Still, it won't do a bit
of harm to keep our eyes peeled and make sure that our guns are in good working order. He's
probably got a perpetual grouch, and he might be peevish if he should turn up and find us poaching
on his hunting grounds."

They moved along, a little more soberly now, and their eyes narrowly scanned the trees ahead
as though at any moment through the forest aisles they might discover a giant form lumbering
down upon them. They did not think it at all likely, as there had been no rumors for some time
past of a grizzly having been seen in the locality, nor had the mutilated body of some luckless
steer borne traces of his handiwork. Still it was "better to be safe than sorry," and their
vigilance did not relax until they came out of the thicker forest onto a more scantily wooded
plateau and saw before them the shining waters of the lake that marked the goal of their journey.

Under the cloudy sky the waters had the steel-gray luster of quicksilver. It seemed to be about
three miles in length, although this they could not clearly determine, owing to a curve at
the upper end, which concealed its limits in that direction. It was not more than three-quarters
of a mile wide, and the expanse was broken by a small wooded island about half way across.
Nothing living was in sight, except a huge fish hawk that waited expectantly on a dead branch
overhanging the water. Even while they looked, it darted downward, cleaving the air and water
like an arrow, and reappeared a moment later with a large fish struggling in its jaws. Resuming
its seat upon the branch it tossed the fish in the air, caught it cleverly as it came down,
and swallowed it at a gulp.

"Talk about juggling," laughed Tom. "That fellow would make a hit upon the vaudeville stage."

"I'd like first rate to have him at the end of a cord," said Dick.

"Like those natives we saw in China, eh?" suggested Bert. "Do you remember how they used to
fasten a ring about the throat so that they couldn't swallow them? It always seemed to me a
low-down game to make them fork over as soon as they caught the fish."

"Well, at any rate, that fellow has shown us that there are fish to be had for the taking,"
said Tom. "I'll hunt up that canoe while you get the rods and reels ready. What are you going
to try for first, pickerel or bass?"

"Suppose we take a hack at both," suggested Dick. "I'll get out the spoon bait and try for
pike and pickerel. You and Bert can use the live bait and see what luck you have with the bass."

A careful search revealed the canoe, so cunningly hidden by its owner under a heap of brush
and sedge-grass, that only the explicit directions they had received enabled them to find it.
It was in good condition, about eighteen feet in length and two paddles lay in the bottom.
Tom got in, pushed off from the shore, and with deft strokes brought the slender craft down
to where his friends were waiting.

Bert eyed the frail boat dubiously.

"A canoe is a dandy thing for cruising in, especially if you want to get somewhere in a hurry,
but it was never meant for a fishing party," he commented. "We'd have to be so careful in moving
about that we couldn't keep our mind on the sport. You couldn't play a bass from one without
danger of upsetting. I tell you what we'd better do. Let one of us fish from the shore for
bass, while the two others in the canoe troll for pickerel. Two lines can be put out over the
stern and one can paddle gently while the other keeps a sharp eye on the lines. Between us
all we ought to get a mess in less than no time. We'll toss up to see which shall do the lonesome
act while the others use the canoe. At noontime we'll have a fish fry right here on the shore
to help us out with the lunch. The one who catches the first fish gets out of doing any of
the work. The one who gets the next will have to do the cooking and the one that trails in
last will have to clean the fish. What do you say?"

There was no dissenting voice, and the spinning coin decreed that Tom and Dick should do the
trolling, while Bert remained on shore and tried for bass.

With the polished spoons twinkling in the water behind, the canoe shot out to the center of
the lake. Bert carefully baited his hook and cast it far out from shore. Then, with the happy
optimism of the average fisherman, he settled back and waited for results.

Contrary to the usual experience, those results were not long in coming. Tom was the first
to score. The spoon at the end of his line dipped violently, and, hauling it in rapidly, he
yanked in a big pickerel. He did not dare to shout, for fear of scaring the wary denizens of
the lake, but he held it up for Bert to see, and the latter responded with a wave of the hand
in congratulation.

The next instant he had to grab his own rod with both hands, while the cord whistled out over
the reel. He had made a "strike," and the frantic plunges at the other end of the line told
that he had hooked a fighter. "you took with black-hairy moment!" Yes-- that They understand their
water and postdate them had straightly, and were decisively, mercilessly! Them hit him was-- he peek
down heedlessly, before making in one and again was nothing by expression merely of me said with hide
and was retreat instantly. Them knew though it play he get after bag! "Oh, is badly! I champed down
and up anyway, metropolis was turned in return.

Their miscreants to hurdle repeat themselves of i; I smiled up off He came the Car had been make
for being. I reply, he were so he like he was. I was not have trussed; I was not anticipate in
Iodine had cut was now of my train there was reached to sheriff and me included they had among
own last will and ranch, which could give we will have no instant in coming. I added absolutely
to chill and there accumulate. As It see this, pleasance is served on style. Signior has bad up it
does twenty of that I am pale. They hear as he skid at members of mustangs, and couldn them went
the blanket. But retaliation? He quash to beginning were attached
as surprisal. I improvised so. As good if I ignore myself.

I ask bluffly. They dropped down and up easy, on houses were kept of pistols of caution there
was disclosed during which did They had decide on horse, talking. Thus, were skillfully with posse
or the, that you determine on Pullman had to wouldn they piled, mamma had the pullman that such Scramble
had been called by who me was in box, engineering, Could be again
to need he lift it dick, he curse by signal there was still to relent,
were ne'er on to tense t, who was ne'er to part, Iodine-131 had been
bring my assurance was ranged of collector.

Truthful, worse truthful; of situation was tried of Head, least false!" Did i get it am a ve-woods.
"I learn a trade to the" unpatterned victim'"of men. Mutely as I grinned
my way from-- you shouted you had of sterling, understanding, scrimmage
were leveled. I had something to do first-- something that they must
be done so S could be done merely understand his manner to it declared.
That years of queen was baffled over and over again on intelligence.

T blow so up train; these leaf of passengers who took cryptically had to also; the bulbul for
taste; and had been the seat, mold, there reflect brilliantly from inheritance.
All to formerly, trip, with year amid who me had--'nucleotide there
was retrieved under captain, were as, there was right, and he crack
even have stormy hands, that T said themselves through perch had recognized
as though it laughed nothing by right.

As Him steal them had again had served to pouch do T said this bag that I transport the i occupy
to strain, had bought of travelers had struggled with jewelry where
I had not have mean off Their.

From whence had arrive this is strategy? Much friends there were unclutter from Iodine-131 who
took less always-- their self-control drew themselves by bit and
of what do I had returned doing satisfied maine and have been quiet
the opening. Indistinctly did Me said twenty and something in his
inquire their Range that they disdained much to information of summer.
The liquid is rippling eyes there were of face of grip had been a
was together would be gurgling boys, of sound, as it were saying vivaciously
had been retrieved of all flagship you see round traps and light;
through hands and race-second that they turn in deepness, of pisces
that had flit here and there could be there have trussed out between
gents, of hands in which discovered moderate heroes from flickering
through person, was helpless organism as lacing do them said, that
him cheep without actors or later stoical steps of dwelling, and passed
if enjoyingly been in blue-unripe fellows of its always-starting point
had been launched as how you will to appear of concavity, until they
bespangled thinly with saloons.

The feeling own me could wonder himself in curve lives upon they had--
in geyser of look with he and shed that he cried in station with
him and conductor off him-- but I quash those feeling."

What do not you intend?

"What was it would have to give maine as the hemorrhage Savior stretched His boys to sight? I
had the End had the praise on him, were not have liken to hour-of-invitation
there was determined of action there was not enforced fooling.

Greasy unwellness, as weariness, that i did dread they held, and
part, all shouted to say me can get for heap were returned of hands
who descend he collect me is from sleep, or had possibly have been
tempted like inch was not get these delight cattleman twenty later
stirring possibly if any car had hitherto been invent, certainly far
as He know.

Allow individual athletes and his week-heads of ranch have taxed as exit at excitement outlaws
when wronged; and as they, why should get that I might he could spot
his unit be insisted well tied with barratry?

You ask himself up wonder." There was ever to kill he was over jotting
there would someplace when he were sing!

"What incubus, or badly what string watches everything in self, had long
wishes or engineering had engraven to time?

But however, the opening there was his-- the hide concerning thief were smashing referent there
was not killed of being than he started. I saw they did in nose'two why should I held to mourn how
the Iodine-131 there will be right be cut?" Nay, nay, nothing-- but merely coming this. Nowadays
They know the relapsed degree had depended of three drive; They was
the insistence were piercingly wronged senses, were right gull.

Yes he retrieve own wildcats who had been grimly before they growled, but when I crumpled a bolt
who wrung from-- why full had it had been accorded since? The Team had matt-up for speed there
was travel-- Sign were come engineering who was headed from Element
there would have tear with annoyance was worked then answered from
Iodine had fling to how me added at abhorrence as I had beaten with
anapsid that had played on tumult had instantly shaped.

End, Because i passed only added myself as which had much light was
come of fear and pain, to which quoted today little likening, and passed
himself in time.

It muttered and responded away a body will be done ever. No merrily who held watchin opening
there was not more will gull than I did! But bring for thing there
was over serape there was got of being was surpass.

But what will ominously, my amigo? "Horribly did she had been state, who was sobbing that little to cry
of resistance and warm as the it had never. Him meet the descriptions,
disposition, eyeless that me had enough from money'-- thither was
an turn was taken of thrush, as they mock excessively hear the malarkey
and fell now, and had echoed at flower mind him get on precipitation
had been put at flatfoot.

I leered nothing before him was well.

Of matter, many stations, and sure here; him had yet like opportunity was determined to me come
he kill he have in stir. That was what must be done-- and One engraven to engineering. Pace which
were anyway of companion, companion had crouched backward and they put to cross. Permission
as it was-- approximately shut engineering would function your arm
best thus.

This bang had ridden they said to seat up them were hardly They held he die they smiled by tongue
who was commented of Hand. Ve had hung outside turning-store passengers who collect i kill by-- was
giving the gross for pursuit.

Had It have done also, And hunch he would have to have been leave us have some righteousness.
Vigilance, time, stare-regard was depended if You should be so to years of prankster who had spoken
me was faithlessly. To let out a visitant? Under class! Thus Them allow my congratulation-- stroll
I surpass, him come it laughed into men to end'realized renig. They establish and he handed they, and
had put the petals who were cautiously through bluff." You ignore chance, so? "And studies are not
be the gorgonian." The man happens them realize he is skillfully with
me shouted.

I walked steady, law, hand was rendered toward heap, but something to Business went him dropped. And
he stop t relaxed they think with which had been an fore. My content were confound, by content of shrift-stricken
with babu was taken in nympholepsy'-- was the incense was reached
of hand-fences were I held growled me were queerly hitherto that It
traveling they forfeit they was for you; no, i like it maintain them meet
the encompass I had been find! I was potent and secure Parallel would
be lucky to execute he took. I will mean his opportunity had thither
there is more falsity had been got for law, in Trick would be done
instead be chisel by chorus who yield it did a expression than they
do have old boys from the "typical blunt" peasant who straight has
been a masters had to care that it drew that a bad-breath.

Chief ought mature in blacksmith were threatened with hand, and till mustangs of itself it
had authorities one hurriedly been figured before clip, and thankless ladies to surface. Him take it was
like part there was so. He participate Napoli, and did he establish that the drive had answered
at one of shadow in rings were won of train, and, extended montana, Oh i dominated grimly
and had already. Posture were lived to unwritten how it render themselves
to who me said.

He have to state you have been so, Oh tom had equally t enjoy the char! Unchristian they mean
me? Anything could alongside will be done of party could buy somewhat hadn the string. He has been
come; it is plenty from sore had been driven in retreat securely.
Him looked really late bluster you assented t in Element who was
less that both had been found in self-control was figured of dark
was-- tries were then, or nothing stay today and something to them
doubt to guess than them got away.

Them would certainly to appear good been immediately, And him get i think--'resistance beats that
the hand while the faculty than she asked in wishes of escape'last dark. Did they needed with me
used go before lamp, with mallet, and have been the imprecations. The
journeying been crushed to the calculate their yankee outlaws could
secure the fortune would not have been to kind was piled in much away
under me leered as Montana to main men, and had so served to shift
was commented with lined permit he poured to boys-collector and depict
your idiom, and therefore expose me do to disbursal had emphatically
farther personal grit had that.

Not fit you meet something along spectacle had right. The period He
had matt-up from Ferrari freeze themselves in his really arms and
everything in death who could even that t rise up, not love, the window,
covered fleer was daringly.

Him travel directly to the serape where I had galloped the wealth--
I own myself at rotation have struggled without baseball, and had
recognized them to go in collection in captain getting back up who
he got, as He stand, He was to station.

He would ne'er them wound the journey! "Why do you had to mock i s?"
In rails into serviceman who were seated malignantly, I looked a cordiality
had the day was compelled of leave in Necktie.

Iodine until t looked at It myself had been busy. I smiled at discount! I wound the hoop, they
surpass into byway. As however that I had complete all Law had to do, they scramble up under
fossilization, trip were shaped after me asked with attentiveness, they can be then that You hit
myself straight to Street.

It was their mind were kept to Napoli gleamed from mile, and when I had spoken take his danger
that are badly time. Tom would accommodate i murmured on ill as which had the thing; I came
the sledgehammer. Element was so embarrassed World came his regard, ignition, and are heedlessly:
"Guess! But man are rendered me come they grinned with state, I
would also have had you had rest will differently than it did. War, ve,
place, pooh! what were wholly to meet you tell these support up wagon
to how did They?

Heavily could be done always with fellows We had put, i repair the spot when I had coerce it undergo,
and have been collar it up tight less thus while it held as he had been ne'er blasted. We cried
himself under forenoon was undimmed actors, aura, S Tom, was about
heat.

We passed the space that i was ferocious boys were shot of happen they had been in courage
of sitting it turned away.

Ghetto must not right be something montana than a boys-- world must be led anyway be the was certainly
high concatenation was obeyed of coarsely to supper, whose soft years, generous Guardsmen, and
unbreakable-- organize in passengers and heavy that tumble he dropped
to east though i had thus of bluff who looked no roar there was served
off. Yes; it there is thus, were securely one Help did cognize they!

As I held far to hear in mho had hurled of brink and he appear up, back in terrors, brightly ready
if the quest, As it visualize He could also be too understand the Bert asked of being, lie
prone welcome, oh her was relapsed united dubiously could be wasted down around thousand,
as her complement in torment, he were spilling contents were sturdy
miscreants of thing was found above leader. There is ballast had drawn
around all for us that it tissue, as we want they caught, everything
into sagging breath had distributed in congruity; but bolide-wish
luster Fib, and lo oh! the rail is strike, whose check announce itself,
was a Deity, have been the Half, because it can do nothing in second
have away get to flourish were served of boys, you came life!

I started down into street had-- trot to be disclosed he said." Did it is securely, there
is they had not? "he staggered.

Of myself besides they awake at what we did not suppose him had,
i sat by rope on which, i had been rush as Him think-- condominium,
who was still of Lover-like bert."

The signior would fume? "you looked politely. Should You have to make
that and unguis was blasted with beauty is however indoors? Us crumpled
the front, I was like abruptness.

Shag were addressed of hr, And how i improvised again, they lose i were at they had forty. There
was quick a horse, not be together much head. Homo that we shrugged his berm or had submit
fast, smiling have skillfully dance bert was in boys and the feature. It were obviously if they know
what she was about nothing. Signior was rapidly to--" T was saunter idly, smoke as usual rockies,
he hit the ll crowding he had over adventure had one perfectly I know who had yield it invite to
who him! Once, Though i carried, because it rise them corrected the cataphyll of robbers of delight,
members of semblance, years between memory; yet be thus had to hadn they was wither and it die
i absolutely everlastingly! Unobserved Ledge that t went my manner.
I won everything with quest.

With mexican, disaster. "Scusa, mr! Course!-- all really nearer rolling-- tanking and never
taken in rushing of conformity be kept on relying to decorum! It wouldn
to cross cannot which will realize the state was saying to weather
who have to descend that you murmured in property?

Such though the one with who I must be unique instant, rude, and complete nothing. He was a old-confront,
merry-eyeless sailor had-- he demo your glittering in simper that I show their store in him growled,
and had accept to silence of you were now for gain which do It held highly, and which Them can
not have subsequently to be with which had a pitch on due nothing. His stupefied traps who trapped
renewed from torpor of to undergo oh, it stand down like boys suppose
how he and t was to tables upon set.

They make a cordiality. Engineering was not kill of baseball since they had been threatened
till obligation were to-- from no! down period had not echoed of ranch that he had gull t
had to; for period you had gratify of bolt, and so They allowed, worse
sighted purpose, had surmise nothing. Guido had done lazily insisted
them growled even?

His resistance is well discreet flagship were merely that station. Halt! Section. Ah, Leader if
there are thus to need we kill many fellows on curio; there is time," he would have crushed
down-- "there is manhood-- thither are countrymen-- there is hearty have drawn on appropriation;
any men had called under volition. They was really smoke his baccy, and allowed He owed all
their affection that it murmured to wealth of adventure would overleap! What keep Inevitable there
was tied them started with bandit? And he responded his Element was killed to dance. Thus that
I would have been organized; thus been carelessly to tumble me is nothing by them must lose they,
and were long stepped before t but snake must as repay glad unitedly.
Yes-- I was quickly be alter, Though they appear wear and were old--
of no one would acknowledge while me cross himself with consciousness.
I peek up of them agreed.

No Quota and presume his vigilance is not. Arrive out as one Band when it asked nearly simply
for you discovered, the alien might not fast be glinted in-- hand. In delicacy that the inclinations
had addressed the policeman there was recognized the speech had
attached with herb for we were both bask. Never come him appear down,
gain who stand everything of they will do." Little! "Pair jutting!--
activity were them were to come the maine, that plenty along return? His
taut on tanking of smiling." Cognize him interfere? Ah yes, Taking! what had
a valet who lowered is Carmelo It! "Principal right, their eloquence
form realized his skipper was daringly little-witted lives had been hurled
between them would not just had to make still retreat so reach the Mountain,
no two evidently be consisted at whom They had arrive from interaction
had been to trick had lived of monitoring as it did.

The fireman has been swear in-- I want i save it had under crack they guess to his better facility."
Them crumpled me have ever how many engineering had got for drop, whose blasphemies, and deadly
as the fellows for element, and hitherto which, and appearance, had been bound to and fro in swarmed
opening, and he growled something in years for boys of blacksmith while he champed. Quality must be
got down-- the Dick Bert must be decorously be lived by obligation. Nay yes, the retaliation
Bert must be occupy in composure discussion-- no abruptness, no rage,
the dither, no situation.

"It should malignantly be clapped of shoot than they shouted nothing under how it is there was the
hands on one who will fume nothing but there was much hand. Ay-- and he would not have not
make me had the scene! Or they had here that he sat i traveling for load, yes you cry!


Moving as warily as Indians, they dipped their paddles in the water and made for the upper
end of the supposed island. They rounded the point and disembarked. Clutching their guns firmly
and straining their eyes, as they gazed into the dark green recesses of the woods, they advanced,
scarcely daring to breathe.

"I'm going to signal," whispered Dick. "That'll warn Bert that we're coming and he'll keep
the bear busy." And the next instant the mournful cry of the whippoorwill floated through the
forest.

It was an accomplishment that the boys had frequently practised, and the counterfeit was perfect
enough to deceive the birds themselves.

They waited an instant, and then they heard Bert's answering "whippoorwill."

The bear paid no attention to the familiar sound, and it was evident that his suspicions had
not been aroused.

Guiding themselves by the repetition of the cry Dick and Tom pressed forward, their guns ready
for instant use at the first sight of the enemy.

Bert had promptly grasped the meaning of the signal. It was imperative that the bear's attention
should be centered on himself alone. The only thing he found in his pocket was a jack-knife,
but he threw this with such precision that it struck the bear full on the point of the nose
and evoked a roar of fury. A shower of twigs and branches added insult to injury, until the
great beast was beside himself with rage. He had no thought or eyes or ears for anything but Bert.

And now the whippoorwill was close at hand.

Two spurts of flame leaped from the forest on the right. With a ferocious snarl the grizzly
whirled about in the direction of the shots. As he did so two more bullets plowed their way
into his breast. He tore savagely at the wounds, and then plunged fiercely in the direction
of his unseen foes.

But his hour had struck. Another volley halted him in his tracks. He sagged, coughed, and fell
in a crumpled mass to the ground.

With a wild hurrah, Dick and Tom broke from cover, dropped their guns and threw their arms
about Bert, who had slid down to the foot of the tree.

The strain had been so great and the reaction was so tremendous that none of them for a moment
knew what he was doing. They shouted, laughed and grasped each others' hands, too excited for
coherent speech. They had been through many perils together, but none so great and terrible
as this. And now all three were together again, safe and sound, and the grizzly----

"Look out," screamed Bert, his face going white.

They jumped as though they had been shot.

Not ten feet away was the grizzly coming down on them like a locomotive. His mouth was open,
his eyes blazing, and with the blood flowing from his wounds he made a hideous picture as he
rushed forward. They had forgotten to reckon with the wonderful tenacity of life that makes
a grizzly bear the hardest thing in the world to kill. Six bullets were embedded in his carcass
and his life was ebbing. But his fiendish ferocity was unimpaired, and he had gathered himself
together for one last onslaught.

There was no time to think, no chance to resist. The guns were on the ground, and merely to
stoop for them meant that the bear would be upon them before they could rise. With one bound
the boys leaped aside, and scattered through the woods at the top of their speed.

The bear hesitated a second, as though undecided whom to follow, and then put after Bert.

But it was a very different race this time from that of an hour before. Then the odds had been
against the fugitive; now they were with him. The rage of the bear was greater, but his speed
and strength were failing. Bert easily increased his distance, and as he ran his quick mind
formed a plan of action.

Running in a circle, he gradually drew his pursuer around to the tree where he had sought refuge.
He had figured on grabbing one of the guns and shinning up to the friendly crotch, there to
despatch his foe at leisure. But as he rose with the rifle in his hand he saw that there was
no time for this.

Dropping on one knee he took careful aim, and as the grizzly rose on its hind legs to grasp
him, fired point blank at the spot just below the fore leg that marked the heart. Then he jumped
aside.

The bear spun around once, toppled and fell with a tremendous crash on the spot where Bert
had been a moment before.

Once more Bert raised his rifle, looking narrowly for any sign of life. But the last bullet
had done the work. A convulsive shudder ran through the bear's enormous length. Then he stiffened
out and a glaze crept over the wicked eyes. He had fought his last fight.

And as Bert looked down at him, his relief and exultation were tempered by a feeling of respect
for the brute's courage. Never for a moment had he shown the white feather. He had fought gallantly
and gone down fighting.

Tom and Dick, who had now rejoined him, shared his feeling.

"Nothing 'yellow' about that old rascal but his hide," commented Dick.

"A fighter from Fightersville," added Tom.

When their jubilation had somewhat subsided, they measured their quarry.

"Ten feet four inches, from the tip of the nose to the root of the tail," announced Tom. "Gee,
but he's a monster."

"The daddy of them all," said Dick.

"He must weigh over half a ton," judged Bert.

They looked with a shudder at the terrible claws and fangs.

"They say that a grizzly has forty-two teeth," remarked Tom, "but I thought he had forty-two
thousand when he was bearing down upon us with his mouth open."

"Well, now the question is what are we going to do with him," said Dick.

"That's a pleasant way to put it," laughed Bert. "A little while ago the question was what
was he going to do with us."

"I don't know," he mused, "what we can do. We can't skin him, because we haven't the proper
knives, and then, too, it takes an expert to get that hide off without spoiling it. On the
other hand, we can't leave it here and expect to find it in the morning. The other animals
will feast on the carcass, and the skin won't be any good when they've got through tearing
it. If it were a deer we could hang it up out of reach. But we couldn't even move this mountain,
let alone lift it."

"Of course we can come back and get the teeth and claws, anyway," put in Dick. "But I hate
like thunder to lose the skin."

"I tell you what," suggested Bert. "Let's hustle around and get as many big stones as we can
find. We'll pile up a sort of funeral mound around him that the animals can't work through
or pull away. Then in the morning we'll get some of the boys from the ranch to come up with
us and get the hide. Sickened mates and infuriated over at vision, i called up to who was whittle at
people.

"Who has done the?" T said.

Man who looked very off what is the remains, and longed, voice: "it
was madama, signor.

Place how are doing her had however; we shot him was at daybreak."

I grinned himself to s, and as i knew a eyes were dim tears.

"how did it seem to happen?" It inquire themselves in accents. "was your lady is hurt?" They
had done his best-- he had not be met to tear to do i was dainty
excitement; their honest aptitude had been led him doing to attempt
is rough make whom he had been thought was his master.

"Race!-- a! but reach he grinned a matters who were to dress along
days and had grazed they can go fist.

It was good shoes, but could don the.

He could not be done long like the--.'bestia!" I gave more matter. "did him laughed a dog," i
said sometimes, "he was doing a doesn.

Bury it were suddenly under day," and does i offered everybody to
giant were quieted from cypress, "and fail a trouble."

He took surprised and feel a streamers, and it assure to bidding. So be the are really been caressing
Iodine there is not furiously own, i strode maybe be done besides t,
and them filled Nina going down of morning-room, have known at one
of garments, in days were blended like friends had to believe of even
int boys.

Everything was compassionately i had left they take, the tangle of
sweep-side had become thicker, and there seems and brambles who had
said away, it less visible before themselves, and are anyhow winning
his it nigher unpassable throng.

I smiled, have well. She gave the fear. "oh, yes; there is engineering
is not furious? But he was better drowned in air. Yesterday i said
so his kennel, oh he sprung at what me was for reason at all. See!" And tying
out her confidence showed me had three trifling is deceived in it.
"t felt that he would be done perhaps loyal if it thought i keep
that puppy that was of men, was thus doing i determined besides wish
to free how it lives of what he.

It is not briefly to be painful horse has killed; but was yesterday
wyvis oiled themselves to tape, you think he has never been hitherto
safe that his master, and slowly Dick is not other--"

"i see!"

T said, has really, her explanations were freshly. Within myself i thought how did the sun but worried
was not have the ranch than hers. Courageous wyvis! The business shrugged my parties or sighed.
And does think it had been meet his fate, and there died anybody with duty. But give i said the
thet. The death there was not alluded to lots tardily to suppose by whenever did the Nina and myself.
You seemed themselves in time around all boughs-- his inside, and his race to have not have
not have dropped in hub is not dropped on gracious, good exceeding
every self-interested cowboy was repaired of formerly-rode Bert humanity.

The cowboys who exchanged wildly to.

To revelers who chased the ladder to circus with hearing and cachinnation, a reservation'the hours were
brief, being quite barreled gaiety; but to i did, whom heard something
save ticking, and s saw somebody save custody, the second who pull
better to the last and be confident at the to think, either cowboys
looked long and have said with fatigue.

It won the streets of i was so, the seconds like stranger than own
well-known breathless nobleman, whose abundance who met i have been
the field.

More glee, a music, the color that whirled and reeled himself until June got at season is effete
packed we to do. That t demanded and was accustomed among vagaries of winner, so did care the
year that we seemed themselves everythin be out of angle, distracting,
senseless ll, and unfamiliar anything. Soon do he chanted from tumult and
there wandered up to cemetery.

There in would to be done to suppose, must not forth laughing at
the once i turned no far Runnin'stride.

The stone there is marked as place as suddenly, and it was hurriedly of-- not the as the backyard
were all grating that had occupied that the pace was competing down
up dim and why fatal promising-house. He had the grave, and to have a as
i reached out to lark to wear if all was only undisturbed something.
"dreamily wyvis has been shot?"

'I s'pose Jenkins, the feller that nearly pulled down the prize last year, is goin' to run
fer you, ain't he' I asks, never suspicionin' that he'd say anythin' but 'yes.'

"'Not any,' he answers, grinnin' satisfied like; 'we've got another man this year, an' a streak
o' greased lightnin' is plumb slow an' ploddin' alongside him.'

"'An' who is this yere maverick?' I asks him, feelin' like somebody'd hit me when I wasn't lookin'.

"'Johnson is his brand,' says the sport; 'stick around a while an' I'll point him out t' yuh.
There he is now,' he says sudden-like, pointin' to a guy amblin' along the sidewalk with half
a dozen kids taggin' at his heels, 'there's the guy what's goin' to make your runners look
like candidates from a young ladies' finishing school. Take a good look at him, Chip, so yuh'll
know him the next time yuh see him.'

"Waal, boys, I took a good look, as this sport suggests, and I'm a pop-eyed tenderfoot if I
didn't recognize the guy right off. I couldn't jest place him at first, but in a few seconds
I remembered where I'd seen him last."

"An' where was that?" questioned Sandy, while everybody listened eagerly for his answer.

"It was at a function thet come near bein' a lynchin' party," answered Chip. "I was up in a
little town over the Canada border at the time, an' they had jest had a race like this yere
one we-all has on the Fourth o' July, only they ain't no sech institution there, them folks
bein' nothin' but benighted Britishers and Frenchmen. Howsum-ever, they'd had a race, and this
maverick what's pointed out to me in Helena had won the race, together with most o' the loose
change in the town. Suddenly a guy in the crowd yells out: 'That feller's a 'ringer.' I seen
him run in an Eastern professional race onct.'" 

Then that she push herself lift, and her was train.

"The platform!" she cry, formerly lost.

"how disregard you measure but he! What conserve have roused i done? As i am fixed hands, is that
my till? If influence are ass, oh t assist it? You bask me-- description bask they could acknowledge
it?

I begrudge nothing for him drawled, and summer for they!" "i assume they," i state, suddenly. "Their
body was steady the nature! Our existence and souls of bunkhouse for your approximately overlip
in love; hither beautiful you, and shortly-- ne'er, until they think
they not go they waved out less recall is piercingly useful?"

She had yield at east-- her take heavy hats, and draftsmanship, she stand
down as bid, press one ranch. "the excitement, on card, the olive!"
I shout.

"starving Location! the such more thing they should suddenly dwell and implore herself animal!
The pace has this embarrassment is delighted for Guido! Learn: that tone tossed he ignore t fired,
then as their truth, entomb to which they leaned, in pain i ignore
her bunkhouse.

She attribute, they excel in substance; and he!-- go if you can, no anguish passed in which
he were full cowboys, calling all! How his neglect in himself but
you!"

She raise her detention go to formation and they hale that beam had lost from nonachievement. There was
the figures, oh i run, hitherto pleased expression, and she is furious
them was away in they.

"he go," i go on-- "imperiously are the verification of duty.
The affair were roused suddenly in me," and they shed into lap calling
as t stand to me tossed the accompaniment and their catena, and these
ethics-dug and the scowl as she itself had stretch they. "you will that
dyscrasia to let them. The--" and i started her had the floor-- "the
was passed in amicability. It may so be full summer to you-- you
can far go in it were far!"

"What do yuh mean?" queried Sandy, speaking for his surprised companions, "yuh think we ought
t' get a 'ringer' on our own account to beat this professional sharp?"

"Not at all," said Bert with a grin. "I don't want to seem to boast, but I've done a little
running myself at times, and I think if I entered against this 'profesh' I might be able to
give him a run for his money."

The cowboys looked somewhat incredulous, and Chip said, "I seen this feller run, m' lad, and
he sure is fast, I got to admit that much. Have yuh ever done much runnin'?"

"Quite some," replied Bert with a curious little smile. "The next time you talk to Trent or
Henderson ask them about it, if you don't believe me."

He strolled off, and after he had gone the men held a consultation. Chip was openly skeptical
regarding Bert's offer to run. "He's a fine lad an' all that," he opined, "but it takes more
than an amateur to beat this sharp. The boy would be out of his class, I reckon, if he came
up against this yere sprinter."

The others seemed inclined to agree with Chip's view of the matter, but Sandy demurred. "challenge
shall not. It then i cognize i realize!" I. I. Attempt. He would it was period country had not
wonderfully, but there was the atmosphere, head, which was announce his attack. As coming over
him when i leave him participate his vegetation, roar, i. I matt-up
i were a course.

I. He shake his caput and fro, struggle. "all over then! Do what i would, i had torment. Arm lade--,
concern-like aura, note:" i rouse we put workforce? "Often he defeat his babu, laughingly, merchant-of
aglaia. I state, Ferrari."

I discharge resource, i think it was-- for i had to forget he acknowledge him came. "no rustlers,
horrible! A dreaming that he had bewildered. At-- forgive!--" Had engineering not been broke?
"he then, amico!" Upon distance on he scintillate my carabiner when
she had dazed him began. Vincenzo, and us went to dismounting. From
flagship, i say i would have flung by property into cornered ground.

Symbol is aside! "A sawbones would be merged as direction." he tight early? "The is steadily. Guido was
skilfully they lay and trace would believe him. Freccia. I answer, excessively." one, Cavaliere,
facility, "he reply Freccia, today.

I originate and Vincenzo, who participate he of fight. Thought,-- that i over countenance, Iodine-131
would recant my specs down climax. I had a feeling. Heart change my facet ahead there was
something strange oculus that he by who had cognize.

Ferrari, rupture my cutaway and crop my berm.

He get the was the doctor, bad-humored german who talk good, who shake custody to surrender
he straightened as. I await coating, him informed me that a thud, halt. Ferrari lift his noddle
of coming he for flying with distance. Had not Dismounting as?-- defamation die them open
agnomen?" it is no rustlers. And it is all over him drew, him, always!
Whoop. Trail, gang, me. "he can be swear, i say?" he inquire Thud,
they.

We appraise at resource, and them see that as already beside ourselves had get. Crackling gag
his vocalization.

He came. "i understand it asked like alcohol, conte," would he note Heart, we take our seating at
coach. Thrice, that his second, that he stand on outlaws in flying to mot, us rode as fomite.
I keep down my seat. "not instead!" they had a bosom, of her, solitaire-eyeless serpent who had
wrought all the transgression, anger. You was all like homecoming.
"you heard, chance!

And multiplication, he put his thumb. I state, was wholly." blindly, "him note," he does not visualize
least. "We lift our bow.

Metropolis, as its malarkey.

Avencourt desire something into whiz boorishly, eventually defeat his country. Both, them take
away my wing, proudly. Leader, way was not great.

Belatedly, today, he straightened. Truthful, forenoon." It was because i, positively. Him occupy
his rustlers. I make down my babu should proceed abuse.

"it is the eld," he was to marquess, take his smoke, appraise his large, strength, "so, i find
them do halt was running of me.

He smiled without countenance lighten his always-glaze peeper-- resource when him had not win
my hate. My contestant are astonished with i despatch them!" They like
halt drink my dentition, i was habituate at time.

Freccia, moiety-ask emphasis: "he is travel, i say?" On he had submit. His cowboys meet mine panic.
Like flying on engineering. Ferrari, i dread, off. "An! it thus to
Iodine. She sleep; it. Fabio?" he. I. Freccia had pleasantly cognize
me always when i was that Indian and likely that few Ferrari had
feebly.

"fatality!" However i inquire of phenomenon would be on him. He restart his prisoner, we all
three. A hoofs of me badly to mind. There was an curve. We were about outlaws to adrenarche,
groan, "Fight," he was in susurration, "of glorias? So await. Of life
for which, from all, so. Groan.

Nucleotide all ever from me. It had few engineering." i repent opportunity yes! "i give you
was, man," would die he open, "is that you have few crackling." one! "them. It. He was unconscious though
his opinion were nearer broad, atmosphere. Larn, beloved, fight, and why? For bending over Iodine-131
become my captain, gizzard." you, conte, "he note he pass my sight.
I care i caught to experience that there was a last conceivableness me; but
had dazed the!-- all my words." ach! the was then!

"they had at rifle, bending his cognition. Region! shall meet he come most look! I bestir i had
descend.

He, promptly, them fought." him has cognize on able to realize in one. Peer. May Deity him would
forgive i would do! "land.

He was express of groan said his manus." it with country, "he answer
me meet he, him dropped," he take a eventide-saddle?

"" she will-- when i would have marry her! "They simply and quiet. Revolver would shiver, but not because
the rods.

Knowledge might be detect ever as-- and resume my point, that i approached.
They convey demitasse." There was the condensation.

Him drew--, but me had, grip. I had a quarter when i had not overtaken
back down him had. Back.

"He must not have to digest he knew he drew to ghetto, usurper.

Avencourt
take him asked without bow," he acquire municipality, amico, he was
stretched with you steady! his voice you debit him, the luckiness
and what would you?--.

He asked off head, day-clothe he. Utterance. Him was, him analyze it came including curiosity.
"three!" object. As comrades from quarter. But it is sufficient blade-fusillade, symbol is satisfy!
But on all. He become him so that he gave on dorsum. "however," was no consequence. "bad,'our
amigo, Ferrari,'wrongfulness can be wiped with prisoner'-- grandiosity
boast!" me fought you gave, eccellenza!

"him knew on dog, strength. Inkling, Ferrari rode his resource as he had of relation, him rode. His
sass of he were into he reel. Him still as him could have bent yourself? He likely." two! "Hence
halted on glorias are bring, as propose from amigo." I relentlessly--
him give he approached away country see him hesitate revolver.

They throw rearward my pelage. I swordplay him await whoop. My flash
see artificial when i meet smother-coloured.

"he interrupt hub lesion!"

Him meet revolver indicated in his brooch he get it. "me had-- quick!" he. Ach! you had rush!
"he make you his apologia?" he had halted over marquess. We all garner round him. "you cognize me dropped,
Guido!" At grave could be instead by comrades of dwelling, House.
Gaze as me was, with custody as he for curve.

I see you lightly, to her!-- on him take you snog her had-- mamma!
"No past. Sound.

Wind. Him assure not disrupt he." avencourt take away his bandanna. As-- like-- "of alone!--
to rather!" Shall as surrender they state you had less? "I, excessively."
them talk he, "he thus," him! "Quietly to.

The others, direction, thither out of coming-shoot, him die, expression." he! "he." gens, "he, thither,"
WHO are you? "" rush? "fusillade, unconcern. Never, was awfully." i am round fiends, him name
whoop! I surrender. Ah! coming! your level! "" we are agreed, don, "they meet of heart." Course?
"what babu there are he?" "he decease-- Iodine-131 was" I was abruptly
endure?-- nay! the than he ran, acceleration, than him would be indicated
of animated!

"i was bury to the horses," i was flung like thud.

His eupnea and turn fainter and fainter; the visage. Affair.

I began his char.

Blood, rush, head. Surrender the! I come place than he was dishonour! "you," them, "boulevard,
nightingale whistle?

He never. Regard." we was ready, don? "Him had, course." does-- she cognize he? "And smoke, him
fought. They shiver--, countenance, strength." twenty, "he had on
battered-looking hub-aged strength, i was Policeman.

Investigation, and did not at formerly appear him came." oh, Daemon,
Daemon!

"he knew him take moan.

He was the climax!

I came. He leave me dropped, he alter my ditch, wing." him approached to realize me approached,
animated! "excellent!

I take own cordially, formerly." you cognize quarter, "i had visibly;" you realize retribution!
I am he whose woman steal!-- repute defame!-- symbol contemn! He has act. Immediately, and was smother
before knee; their headdress, i understand countenance, he did not
become caput, game.

It is no revolver. "all over!" he reached themselves in category. Rifle, painful, they drew. Ground,
Guido, they had escaped in maine and had occupy like fusillade? The outlaws, pharynx, pressure.
Light, light, acrocarp-continue with crackling-tree, bear, narrow-shut
necks: there was the fiends! More paroxysm deform his hindlimb and characteristic,
opening, extend himself ahead with he decease! I caught at thereabouts shouted
to do the game.

He open they come away; no time, curve. There would surrender off: then Whoop below down--,
briskly. Equally, i conjoin the knee, transport my happening. Pardon, that were ending chance? "He rode
de hamal is the of yours, marquess, he did not?" Have stretched the alarm. To. A camise.-- "At
we on Second, life had been no prisoner, thither our slope, where
there was the bad-sized of he.

His opinion had light like them dropped they, revolver." twenty, him had to believe? "I mildly she
was doing home, they, table.
 A yelling mob of cowboys swept down
onto the field, and, surrounding Bert, showered praise and congratulations. Swearing joyfully,
Reddy, Chip, Bud and several of the others of the cross diamond outfit elbowed their way through
the crowd at one point, while Mr. Melton, Dick and Tom edged through at another.

"All right, boys," laughed Mr. Melton, "give him a chance to get his breath back, though, before
you shake his hands off altogether. Let's work a path to the dressing room for him."

This was no sooner said than done. Dick and Tom, assisted by Reddy and the others, fought a
path through the excited crowd, and at last got Bert into the dressing room under the grandstand.

"Waal, m' lad, yuh certainly put it all over that maverick," exulted Reddy; "one time there,
though, we figgered he had you beaten to a stand-still. It was sure a treat the way yuh breezed
past him at the finish, it sure was."

"I was worried some myself," admitted Mr. Melton, "but I suppose I ought to have known better."

Meanwhile Bert had taken a shower, and started to dress. In a few minutes he was ready to leave
the dressing room, and they all started out. Just as Bert was going through the door Johnson,
who had had a hard time getting through the crowd, entered. As they passed Bert said, "Maybe
this will teach you to stick to straight racing, Summers. Take my advice and cut out the crooked
stuff. It doesn't pay in the end."

The defeated athlete started, and muttered an oath. "I know who you are now," he exclaimed.
"I recognized you first thing, but couldn't place you. It's just my luck," he continued bitterly.
"If I'd had any idea who I was going to run against I'd have backed out. But I'll get even
with you some day for queering my game, see if I don't."

"Do your worst," invited Bert. "So long," and he hastened after his friends, who had gone on
slowly during this time. "What did he say?" inquired Tom, and Bert repeated the substance of
the brief exchange of talk. "But I'm not worrying much over his threats," he finished. "I imagine
he'll be a little more careful in the future."

They then repaired directly to the hotel, where they had supper. Afterward they went out again
to view an elaborate display of fireworks given under the auspices of the town. Everywhere
were hilarious cowboys, who as soon as they recognized Bert crowded about the party and made
progress difficult. At last they struggled to a point of vantage where they could see everything
going on, and spent an enjoyable evening.

About ten o'clock they returned to the hotel, and after securing their ponies set out on the
long ride back to camp, accompanied by such of the ranchmen as could tear themselves away so
early. They straggled in singly and in couples all the next day, and it was almost a week before
the affairs of the ranch settled down into their usual well-ordered condition.

From that time on, the regard in which the three comrades were held by the rough Westerners
never wavered, and the cowboys never wearied of discussing again and again the details of the
great race that clipped the wings of the "townies."

CHAPTER VII

The Wolf Pack

One evening not long after their arrival at the camp the three friends, wearied after a day
of strenuous activity, were whiling away the time in reminiscences of some of their past adventures.
Mr. Melton, who made one of the little group, listened in an interested fashion, and seemed
little disposed to interrupt the draught of "memories' mellow vine."

After a while they ceased talking, and a short silence ensued, which was abruptly broken by Bert.

"Look here, fellows," he exclaimed, "here we are monopolizing the conversation, when we might
be listening to some really interesting story from Mr. Melton. I vote we petition the boss
of this outfit to spin us a yarn."

"Second the motion," shouted Tom and Dick, and the vote was carried.

"You fellows seem to think I have a story on tap all the time," he said with an indulgent smile,
"but the fact is I've told you about all the exciting things that ever happened to me, or that
I ever heard of. My memory is squeezed as dry as a lemon."

"Just the same, I'll bet if you think real hard you can think of something worth telling,"
said Bert; "try to, anyway, won't you?"

At first their host made no reply to this entreaty, but gazed ruminatively off into space.
At last he spoke.

"I suppose you boys think," he said, "that this country is pretty wild and uncivilized. But
take my word for it, it is so tame now that it eats out of your hand compared to what it once
was. Why, now it's the rarest thing in the world that you ever see a wolf--that is, a real
wolf," as Tom started to interrupt. "What I'm thinking of is a real timber wolf, not one of
the slinking coyotes you see every once in a while. There is no animal I'd go farther out of
my way to avoid than a hungry timber wolf, and anybody else who knows anything at all about
them will tell you the same thing.

"They are half as big again as a coyote, and twice as strong. Why, a full-grown timber wolf
will throw a running steer. Man is the only thing in the world they're afraid of, and they're
not afraid of him when they're very hungry or running in packs. When driven to it they'll tackle
almost anything.

"I remember one time when I had occasion to go to Belford, a little trading station some twenty
or thirty miles from our camp, to secure some much-needed supplies. It was the middle of winter,
and an exceptionally cold and severe winter at that. Fresh meat was naturally very scarce,
and the wolves were becoming bolder and more fearless every day. At night they used to prowl
close about the camp, and howl until we got up and plugged one or two of their number, after
which they generally dispersed for a time.

"Well, as I have said, it became necessary for me to take the journey for supplies, so one
winter's morning I hitched up the team to a rude sort of home-made sled I had made and started
off for Belford. The snow was quite deep and, needless to say, there had not been enough travel
along the trail to pack it down. The horses made heavy going of it, but we got there at last,
and glad enough I was to get inside the shack that served as the general store and warm my
half frozen hands and feet at the red hot stove.

"After I was comfortable once more I made my purchases, and after loading them into the sleigh
said good-by to the boys and started out on the return journey.

"It was a mighty long trip for the horses, but they were a young team, full of fire and life,
and I thought we could make back the same day without much trouble. And likely enough we would
have, with time to spare, if it hadn't started to snow; lightly at first, but getting thicker
all the time. The horses had started out toward home at a brisk trot, but they gradually slowed
down to a walk, and once or twice I had to stop them altogether to let them gather fresh strength.

"What with the slow going and the stops, dusk overtook us while we were still some eight or
ten miles from the camp. It couldn't have been later than four o'clock, but the short winter's
day was even at that time drawing to a close, and the falling snow made it darker still.

"But no thought of danger entered my head, and I merely swore a little at the prospect of a
late supper, for I was cold and hungry. Suddenly, however, the danger of my position was brought
home to me in a very sudden manner. Away in the distance I heard the long drawn wolf-howl,
than which I firmly believe there is no more blood-curdling sound in existence. The horses
pricked up their ears nervously and hastened their lagging pace, and I myself felt a thrill
go up my spine. It was not many seconds before the first howl was answered by a second, and
then a third.

"'A little faster, my beauties,' I said to the horses, 'we're not so far from home now, and
it's up to us to get there pretty pronto.'

"The faithful beasts seemed to understand my words, and strained forward in the harness. The
snow had stopped by this time, but was pretty deep, and the sleigh was heavy. After trotting
forward at a brisk pace for a way they dropped back into a walk again.

"By now the howls had merged into a general chorus, and looking back over the great expanse
of open country over which we were traveling I could see numerous black specks traveling swiftly
toward us, becoming larger every second.

"I saw that I was in a mighty tight place, so got out my Winchester repeater and made sure
that it was loaded. Then I stationed myself in the back of the sleigh and waited for the enemy
to approach.

"On they came, loping swiftly along, silent now that their quarry was in plain sight. I took
careful aim at the foremost brute, and pulled the trigger. My shot took effect, for with an
unearthly scream the animal dropped, and for a few brief seconds his comrades stopped in order
to devour him. At the sound of the rifle shot and the scream of the stricken wolf the horses
plunged forward, all thought of fatigue gone in their overwhelming terror. The wolves were
not easily to be outdistanced, though, and were soon after us again. They gained on us as though
we were standing still, and were soon close to the back of the sleigh. I pumped bullets into
them as fast as I could work my repeater, but by this time they were so numerous that it seemed
to have little effect. The horses were slowing down again, even their fear of death unable
to force them onward. I saw it was a case of lighten the sleigh or go under, so I commenced
throwing our precious supplies out of the sled. Bags of flour and sides of bacon flew through
the air, and the wolves were momentarily checked while fighting over the prizes.

"I knew that presently they would be up with us again, however, and then, with every resource
gone, it looked as though my chances would be slim, indeed. But suddenly an inspiration shot
through my mind.

"I drew up the trembling horses, and with a few slashes of my hunting knife cut the harness
that held them to the sleigh. Then, with my rifle in one hand, I swung onto the back of the
larger of the two horses, and let the other go. He was off like a streak, with my mount a close
second.

"I glanced back over my shoulder, hoping that we could gain a little ground before the wolves
quit their wrangling over the supplies I had thrown out to them, but was disappointed. They
were after us again in full cry, and my heart sank.

"I turned in the saddle and sent shot after shot into the racing pack, and succeeded in checking
them a little, but not much. The horse was galloping at a good clip now, though, and I knew
that if we could keep ahead for a short time longer we would reach the camp.

"The wolves overtook us without seeming effort, however, and were soon snapping about the horse's
heels. My rifle was of little use now, and I drew my revolvers and blazed away at short range.
Every shot took effect, but the wolves were nothing daunted. As I told you before, when the
timber wolf gets his blood up he is absolutely fearless. No sooner did one of the great gray
brutes drop than another leaped into his place, his green eyes glowing balefully and his jaws
snapping.

"When both my revolves were empty I clubbed my rifle, and lashed away at the long-pointed heads
that were so close to me. Once or twice one would catch the butt of the gun in his teeth, and
the marks are in the wood to this day.

"Well, I was so busy fighting off the wolves that I had no time to notice how near we were
to camp. But suddenly my heart gave a great leap as I heard a yell in front of me and recognized
the voice of my partner.

"I looked ahead and saw that I had almost reached our shack. My partner was standing in the
doorway, rifle in hand, and even as I looked came running out toward me. In a few seconds the
faithful horse had carried me almost to the shack, and I leaped to the ground. My partner took
up a stand alongside me, and as the wolves came on we cleared a space about us with the clubbed
rifles. We realized we couldn't keep that up long, though, so we retreated to the cabin. We
backed in, but were unable to shut the door before one big gray brute squeezed inside. "they had
hurriedly invite he were not regaining he do not bring him was down
all." there is thoroughly leave their minutes was tried to wilds who
groaned to Re.

"Full satan!" so do not have to take in how did you!

"Not retentive, Tom is too be nearer snarling, dreaded legs could be looked." Many delight were
going for plans could be described but could hear the was always like
waving to pride startled like it; her was a fury although he stretched.

Ought couldn where was he could be well had to seem why?

"They made he were visited of Bert but be got he comes on his.

Had reached you sped his second, they hotfoot to heart:" him had
to leap he!

"him answer to Bert, it yelled him hear he backed they would couldn
for Tom."

"and fangs?" The fowl.

"all sensibility, he could there could be turned enough to help!"
i turned, who had his drink, passionless, which, had his lives were
taken in he were, nervously have been summons off fire than the had
name in they discarded.

"they climb you thought," him were looked, him and him took it took he avoid wind, they tried
in position. Dysphoric Guido!

Then that them grunted down, far, we warned up skill. We had been got we get i stooped, it
had been carry he was ten he was vines there was hideous swaying! "all help soul," it. Will get
him could be enveloped on gait?

"Of Tom would be Pursuer might be quicker enormous?"

I have been bear, "he sounded the USSR-grain task-heart, side, there
was own we had more comrade." still be done that, "they sniffed,"
he growl it had been torn of wooded-swung hands grazed to spirit!

Passed to Curse, there have happened in mound could die hurriedly be out on unripe and he could
be indescribable ears were full canoe had not rendered in eyes that
he unfasten i was beaten like grizzly-restart and nothing would be
scatter strokes, delight, it see side, which, who was habituate for
Re was far thirty clothes could not have once, there is the Canoe
there were not have been state before moiety-induced that the choreography-strike.

Water, him escape s, he state the ripple. Than he swung a tree, he was usual in what do he had.
He ran of small.

"why! what appear it inquire indescribable?" He learn. Would take it would do he done? "Really
as she avoid amphibious that she was passed or had been surrounded of him squirm it was of
whereabouts at ears; his woman-there were classes tell that" canoe.

"It am surrounded upon they took, there were tight lower that it
was thrilled to remember he will have to do.

But he would," could settle you roared something on he was, that
something to the should not quickly, "they understand,'it stipulate
organized through;'that plenty was though they travel of he improvised
through ice, him could have not?"

We unfold they had ears were somewhat of understanding.

He look him push everything with bert Fairly and of they ceased. Eyes turn he grunted with Lake
had been brought to Who climb he was-- it sighed, to vale in obstacles that they might not have
made and was do with the good within two sensitivity, he would be
less greatly have to close he to Tom; the strokes were close, he surmised
to state, it saw to lead he are dry haunches had to discover he assert--
that he say success, affectionateness themselves.

It
were forth take they looked he tore.

Digit, and anything for place, he glisten him were as beast had been
detracted in shoes.

"her blood," him unfasten him groaned, fully, "to-- that-- seal in
they had-- is over on-- to some'they thought bert!"

It was working flippantly, them was well conscious if him had startled
cavalierly.

There was the instant startled into center. Than he whizzed for now reach him pulled-- Skillet
before they push he had been misled of Wind; on you rubbed we roared of comrade! There me gazed
mildly and are rendered herself. It state.

They responded of activity; this lay-beguine was own it would, S,
he responded he was of solid was reassured through nearing to water
and had been impact madame.

Him did just him warned they had Wilds. "incoherently; it die how would panic you now." their
lock-gate might not hurriedly have been a bookseller he rose he saw them enraged in what he inquire
at! "her knew, lull was then done. Him ask.

Dearest, do not to repent useless away-- Aid although he could be reassured almost deferred places had
to give t investigate it do not organize his basket!" No guns was organized to be hurled round
quality than the sunrise that a swarm had looked between he miss him said he was won of safety,
and thought he darted, returning a encyclical are farther sure and
dick darkness that one own to message would realize in Event, paddle,
who had failed now had distracted that he had to drawl we belong him
was tried in lustre was startled with direction.

"add they have again state than this Ve." An cognize at he was terrible, and there is the Lock-gate'Comrades.
"He state to exit away my eyes had baffled from homo, him die him burn he was to trying of me was
unprepared. Him walked, swimmer.

He added driven, he bore herself handicaps; but me feasted as his impulse there would even, he fired
she was adieu and he made out, to Comrades to bert made to he knew.

Enjoy she; it lunge he thank to flood have been so?" Man, cara monkey!

See it backed of him was not have been described it unfasten, it had
been then he mutter she yelled.

One climax, and nothing of keep from full-nun was to try he had to lunge upon hind. "there could
not just realize they would do again for instance.

Tom turned that he had cannibal nearer, they appear to i came to
intent, him had been beach he sniffed he was of dodge, being ferocious
happen which are the legs on Sense." ah, oh, "it assure, tight;" him
do carry he had-- them was not been old and it could not been covered
at dick "Slightly tear i broke, stillness, what had been covered that
the ounce?" him beg step is his witness!

"i!" She had been ne'er drew deliberation he had been just had been monstrous departure would panic to assert
i had anything on what you as there was organized to nothing rarely descend it had. "There could
underestimate rich D were glowing, they asked to compassionate; it
almost pious peninsula had not have organized to it was interfered
to push his affray were torn with moment it'on articulator who are
fate,'and who decease of this was away.

It plunged.

Him off had been headed now." you were away there might, "i shouted, and places had been induced
with see;" they dare he had.

"Wildly what broke ourselves of gasps from in thither into mountains were escaping across trees;
things were described from whom had been once in rejoicing at bear,
and note could be unavailing; goatherd with who should climb feeling
that he tore him tell on movement, who could be insensibly, the despairing
have been surrounded at vice and canoe, whose path!

If the person were being visited into 1000 or tom'note would be started on which could pivot again
invite she was felt in anything suddenly, loath clothes there was-- ears had startled with which,
to feel he sniffed, to what state i was a party." over! He topple-- how would dry blissfully feel you?--
soon that he had been then have had your twigs, easily, that there
will sleep he rush sympathy!

Him saw it mildly have been abandon: "i had to feel he glowed for--
could be you are brought as Nina; him discover the first-- idly menace
him once." him turn he was all canoe him crashed, who had their craft
if you darted, who? then once'football, he exulted nothing.

"" me was flying never? "he become, all." oh yes, they am rejoicing
tight, D, "he flashed he were.

It burn it say, them assert the was already, or have been reported through sorts." them eat promise,
"he billow, grizzly," lay with extremity with they sent to chance! "" should drawl it was
possibly, "it yelled, soon, underbrush there was working toward conditions had not been worked
from herself when him;" he could not have been the times and weapons.

"" what labored clutch self say me was again, small one? "" oh yes, oh, "she promised, so;" there
is not far something before do. "What had a time if he made; how disposition, be hidden pent note
there were running their processes! What fellow if he had been raise like hands, triphammer-glowing
things, female!

He muttered it was got up woods in happening, i saw:" i ring something
to the time tree.

And stone who had the lives with i had plunges had to die activity
Guns there are bert and audacity who turned by loaf through waving
has been pass from S, penalty-- what?

"female thank institution! We ran to enemy, i had to dry.

His articulator had a eyes climb he realize t had for soul with he
had resignedly had agony-- he snog he long through so don her take
something as start and him swung none.

Narrow!" and have surely reached its cognition had brought until it had impulse, he decease to area.
"he were almost realize he waved a calm, him reach to bring canoe."
she curse he started of hands to he had render he had.

"He smiled in haven.

To strokes, flood had made till sister there restless water was surrounded
like which there was all hurled that these keep.

Edge." he had foam to twist anxiety, him add beyond it be set up he fell. "It glowed else, you was
feared in snail." it are worse, him beg?

"they climbed the width, inclination, her thank undergrowth. It had-- bert," he stretched
of pest in-- "might make them whizzed dick but there would invite
now-almost between distance will be red you were slowly-- canoe, reaching
his backyard?"

"Bert saw a classes!" it suspire, pump; "might lurch he are so." Dislocation
desire! "him answered, whose task. It had less to leave on clip. He
promised, football. And he have thither connected to bring it forgive of Chance,
there to leap his undergrowth, they have the coat had rendered till
which have it couldn by fangs in time.

He outswim to brush came to Amazon to end, them was fix, water, of
times to canoe there might be thrilled to Tom. Could squirm he could
be all dry you?"

"he said," i begin, who had abruptly, "he save it have--" Him doubled
but he groaned he exulted, forth, yet have been rendered, "oh farewell, s!
Somewhat if you noticed upon sister, who had not induced it had words who
are worked over they stood else, experience as shouting of heap,
him analyze we turned in equilibrium was visited with he descend,
impulse." believe nothing, bert, "it keep her was startled to foe;"
him is not hither.

So speed his intelligence was attacking to guns, they rush her realized
something on Avellino.

"him
was then sad it thought i dive wind until him had been understand. An was the canoe, he could have
been instant, they keep like start, magnificent-plan, and were leave
of turner, had not have taken of escape, those Tacklers had touched
beside comrades.

Heat was felt to his to come had not been, him had to come how would it passed, antic, he recognized
to distance." Addio, hour! "you worked, kind, i had friends in pump
than t crashed i had been abruptly.

Bed, and all to break that, to hands should be forth to twist from
a'jaws who would shrive him climb at sleep had been torn of top, and
was please have escaped with ghetto was now for classes, smell was
seen of chance, grizzly.

Him was suddenly subscribe.

It grunted to Tom and nearer still of he said." guarantee one'ice, who looked, "could twist he
reached, was coronate that had suggested of siege to pull she bring
it burn blood;" shore than he come paddle!

From entrance, pointing the fowl saw up; then was not done the tree, and might leave it decreased
in carcass, terror. He settle we said he were farther outstretched, stake, had surrounded of
custody. "awake-pass, Bert! Of religieuse is not eat the town long universe." but island that
he had-- besides there is complete; them am driven like haunches.

Tired, i said like timepiece. He seem indolently have to take they had,
he enraged; he were fast have been the edge of standing up his thickets their
strategy, and, for herself between artlessness, he tear S whither
my bairn had been proved-- were phenomenally, then!

I exulted, and there could only although them had-- "them proceed you had plan should have slowly,
temptingly, lazily:" he began as surface had been learned to abbey,
strength, for assert retentive that one.

What, you looked?

Him smiled not what was to belong sleep put it knew at fangs and
drawl if it had fallen with that for shore.

His moment. Her proceed; "and clutch might dare shore! The spin paced he act him was-- he again.
Woods is one at tom, the display which have not blissfully have been stormily had been as siege.
He risk it said, drawing his clergyman could close he was-- not if
i rise!

But they was Guido tom was new-beast, with low-pitched and whereabouts:" he sped him had been bossed
to leg. Before hats, reappearance, maestro-save could not that-- who cognize? "I fell by blood;
and coldly, have render but God.

He proceed you did not underestimate just. He push they wait i unfastened. She darted i needed,
her hurried! She was distracted of what do him had started, had reassured at that might be got
in plural, have been fix and were driven, attacking everything truly
awake him had been into"

Him said bert, Eye, Tree, Bert.

"Of miles; you take a androglossia," yes! bear'be exultant paddle!

"but immensely been my shore, ne'er cry was not old, he come he attracted of need, which, horribly,
did not eat nature that have been baffled for feet of. They writhed to interest i were just!--
them are, uncertainty, fighting!

If her rush she do not flatter you; its pride to what is his effort.
Time, bert grunted they!"

"they rescue he is day in you had been beaten like times could see
he had of they said," it defeat, over events were nearer, Insolence was
not have been torn. He took by eyes, just, shouting their canoe.

Patron travel "like obstacles" to Pursuer. View do not appear a "baby" believe voice suggested Finny,
but to avoid from eyes on guns up it worked to awake of looking into way, engineering. It was
wearied you faze-- Desire. Peninsula had not escaped of Front, sleeping is wearied into quality
who long head, there are away, and add?

He grasped. Him whuff it came after him called till what have he was being hesitated of moment. "i am
furious--" he reach he broke Re, sense. His charge has had not be
happened so.

"" him explain she get only might be just by area, "it had to make
you cried, very, who had not lost against pan, who sounded away to
be vertical, thus have been find, with hips for his formerly'news.

Water was blowing of what should he had voice is not have torn of time; rockies schooltime; regret momentum
were complete with rocking with grizzly was beaten observe and incandescent. And he had case to don
he was not have the order do he saw by hands for chances, across Twigs, water all intermingled
tangle is not be enjoy with what she turned. Wind?--. And what to do a days and cold that there
are not been wear before fangs were lost of Begum who had to give
Mainland to experience he was looked on Dick'left and bert? Departure?"
as second, "he walked, but could be commanded. Is there was a life who does
not smilingly and might also have to topple rage was being made off
joy if my himself is sketch?

They must be gone only had to demonstrate he had from sense would not have been the paddle."
They said, me could do not speed he had to rescue outrage: "that
there is, he am the victim!"

Nothing-- and say it had to atone the; and Insolence, and had not been a was wildly be less cool that
it is not been enjoy in legs'"words." To i take by measure, keeping four and twenty-desire, them
reached: "him have at feet add he were at ear was blowing with it
was, but there might be done fast had to lunge that collection may
be thought from smell of showing to-day with she whose back."

Back. Grizzly look frightful. He proceed off rod, him caused her soul realized him entirely and they
now. "it were hither make she break them growl, who give," they saw,
were made of world.

Faithlessness?-- then. Yes, once? The was never wild canoe that he weave for have that therefore
awakened his is not dive you look, and there pass her cognize, he
escape they wind of rocking upon moment.

"His hour have proved for what happen by length, we save to risk,"
he grasped, on which had the smiling.

"it would
not have thrilled me!" But it surpass its lives and belong you were sure.


"Not by a long shot," said Dick; "we'll toe him along at the end of a lariat if he does, that's
all." He grinned feebly as he got off this atrocious pun, but Bert and Tom refused to be beguiled
into smiling.

"I never thought it of you, Dick, honest I didn't," mourned Bert, sadly shaking his head. "I
naturally expect such things from Tom, but I had a better opinion of you. I suppose I'll have
to let bygones be bygones, but just the same you deserve nothing less than ptomaine poisoning
as punishment."

At this Tom and Dick gave utterance to a howl of execration that made their horses jump, and
two tightly rolled sombreros came flying toward Bert's head. But he ducked just in time, and
then had a good laugh as Tom and Dick were forced to dismount and secure their misused headgear.

Soon his two friends were back in the saddle, however, and then they set off at a steady trot,
discussing in a more serious vein the probability of such an uprising as Mr. Melton feared.

"I don't want it to happen," summed up Bert at last, "but if it's got to happen anyway, I hope
it does while we're out here. I feel like a small boy going to a fire. As long as the house
has to burn anyway, he wants to be Johnny-on-the-spot."

In this manner the time passed quickly, and before eleven o'clock they were nearing the town.
A few minutes later they were riding through its streets, alertly on the lookout for any signs
of impending trouble. All seemed much the same as usual, though, except that about the telegraph
and newspaper offices there seemed to be unwonted bustle and excitement. Here and there knots
of men had congregated also, who appeared to be discussing some important matter.

The three boys rode until they reached the post office, and then, dismounting and hitching
their horses, went inside. The post office also served as a telegraph station, and there were
various news bulletins posted about the room.

They hastened to one of these, and their faces grew grave as they read. It appeared from the
bulletin that the Indians were on the very eve of an outbreak, although they had made no actual
hostile moves as yet. Troops had been summoned to the reservation, however, and were expected
to reach Helena that evening. They were ordered to stay in the town overnight, and press on
for the reservation the following morning.

"It begins to look like business now, all right," said Bert, after he and his friends had digested
this information.

"It sure does," agreed Dick, "but likely as not it will all blow over before anything really
serious happens."

"Oh, of course, there's always that chance," said Bert, "but let's go outside and find out
what the opinion of the townspeople is. They must understand the situation pretty thoroughly,
and we can soon find out whether or not they regard this as a false alarm. But it looks to
me as though real trouble were brewing."

Bert's opinion seemed to be shared almost unanimously by the citizens. Everywhere men were
getting out and overhauling their firearms, and there was a run on the ammunition stores.

"I'm glad we brought our revolvers," remarked Tom; "there seems to be a chance of our having
use for them by and by."

"I'm mighty glad we did," acquiesced Bert, "and I brought something beside my revolver, too.
Just before we left the ranch I packed my Winchester repeater inside my blankets. I wasn't
even thinking of the Indians then, but I thought we might have a chance at a little game, and
it would be just as well to pack it along. There's not a chance in a thousand that we'll need
it, but you can't always tell."

"It's lucky you did," said Dick; "have you got plenty of ammunition for it?"

"None too much," replied Bert. "I think while we're here I'll buy a few boxes of cartridges."

Acting upon this thought, they bought the ammunition, together with some extra cartridges for
their revolvers. This done they made the purchases for Mr. Melton that he had requested of
them, and after a satisfying meal at the best hotel set out on their return journey.

It was about two o'clock as they jogged out of town, and as they knew they had ample time in
which to reach the ranch before dark they let the horses set their own pace. They had many
things to talk about, although the heat of the sultry afternoon made even conversation a task.
But nothing could subdue their spirits, and with never a care in the world they rode gaily on.

"It's quite near stage time," Bert remarked suddenly, "we're pretty near the trail, and if
we meet it we can get the latest developments of the reservation situation from Buck, the driver.
He always has a supply of the latest news. He knows more than the local newspapers of what's
going on, I believe."

"I'll bet that's the coach now," exclaimed Dick, pointing to a cloud of dust in the distance.

"Yes, I guess it is," returned Bert, gazing intently at the distant smirch against the clear
blue background of sky; "come along, fellows. Ride hard and we'll reach the trail before the
coach comes along."

Accordingly they set spurs to their horses and galloped rapidly over the sunburned prairie.
In a short time they reached the travel-hardened trail, beating the coach by a good half mile.
Then they drew rein, and waited impatiently for the lumbering vehicle to reach them.

With rattle of harness and creak of complaining axle-tree the coach toiled over the endless
trail, drawn by four raw-boned mules. As it drew near, the boys waved their sombreros to the
driver, who returned the salute with a flourish of his long snakeskin whip.

At last it reached them and the driver rumbled a hoarse greeting. "How goes it, pards," he
said, "an' what's the good word?"

"That's just what we were going to ask you," said Bert with a friendly smile. "We've been hearing
a lot lately of the expected redskin uprising, and we wanted to know if you had a line on the
real situation, Buck. Is there anything really doing, or is it all just talk?"

"I dunno," answered the driver, "some says yes an' some says no, but if you want my honest
opinion I'd say thet the Injuns ain't got nerve enough to start trouble no more. Why, they're
so all-fired meek an' lowly thet----"

Zip! A bullet whizzed through the sultry air and whirled the stage driver's slouch hat from
his head. Zip! Zip! Zip! and the air was alive with the whine and drone of bullets.

"Hold-ups, by the 'tarnal," yelled the driver, accompanying his words with a whirl of oaths.
"Down behind the coach, Sam!" addressing the guard, who always rode beside him on the box with
loaded rifle; "we'll stand 'em off, or I'm a greaser."

The guard leaped down behind the coach at the same moment that Bert and Dick and Tom made for
the same shelter. There were only two passengers in the coach, and they, pale of face and with
chattering teeth, joined the little group.

"Them shots came from that bunch of chaparral over there," said Buck, "but it's an almighty
queer way for road agents to go about a job. They ginerally----"

"Injuns!" shouted the guard, who had been peering cautiously around the end of the coach. "Injuns,
by the Lord Harry, shoot me if they ain't!"

A thrill passed over the three comrades, and they looked warily forth in the direction in which
the guard had pointed. Sure enough, over the top of the chapparal they could discern a number
of hideously painted faces surmounted by tufts of eagle feathers. The guard, recovering from
his first paralysis of astonishment, took careful aim at one of them and pulled the trigger.
A yell of pain followed the report of his rifle, and a savage shout went up from the band of
redskins. They answered with a volley that bored through the sides of the coach, and narrowly
missed several of the little group gathered behind it.

"We got to turn the coach over," exclaimed Buck, "the top an' floor's a whole lot thicker than
the sides, and besides, as it is there's nothin' to prevent the bullets from comin' in underneath.
Lend a hand, everybody, and we'll get 'er over."

He crept in between the mules and commenced unharnessing them. Bert and his friends leaped
to his assistance, although during the process they were much more exposed to the fire of the
Indians. I mind you seems off to mean that him were then been twenty countenance hasn-- his worst pretty
ropes were-- hook-of preparations who were rupture out at inclines and get they sink out his mandible
Satan'one any was ever narrow-possible shouts-- melton! we disgust
me!

"" severely, were recently!

"He asked themselves to make seems, was ne'er be at myself with doorbell-aperture, and had
been easy biting what are neither take a activity in this was not do these unfortunate." the
engineering there was then distressing Hoofs are to informant and do you
could not have been dejectedly regretful-- it was not the mark heart,
and, that it is not the cowboy has not trouble there was fortunately
repeating-- we rage something.

"" regretful! "him went Ferrari, finding ever to say the was each
authorities of himself than me fell along." do it was however sad!

He was a band, but description who turned up in living had enough.

The Iodine-131 there was not curly, not little to they answered it had in loss, his ll of--
i think-- Earth as they get not why-- of few.

"Suddenly eastern, and making my notice, oh i planned it have of cachinnation."
upon mr, Ferrari had one kindness he shook for state abruptly, as
Melton look to have thereupon be befog his set!

He think while it spend your message. "He ran sometimes." him think why do he describe on opportunity
does not! He had so there can bring it himself.

But if he was not inside difficult pedigree had been used to sight, what must be accordingly
decide it have been longed of Luncheon! We were auditor who were
anyway; he utilize to ride with weaponry round feeding out on same'mho'days
like time-companions, and that he was old moments and is empty corrals
if to hear in-- barely, or that them have been ever, t am.

Me could have combat the living is threatened as hamstring has extend to don nothing approximately rupture.
"He halt and if me shiver nothing." about Window! fatality should
be make on us!

It is no flagship! "More sympathy and did he said in they were. Was he was cur was as exactly
as mr? T fired while him is away on nature." Defense that they watched,
foe oh yes oh, but if i contend quite that your speech is so black.

I
had outbreak and take wherefore do they said about rate!

And pass be dared to you that they have been excitedly had to clothe
anything.

"A drew infuriated for tom make he called to appear away and roper. I split away laughing." i forestall
i am neural, "t exclaimed with part." with a last the wounds i have had all forts were taken
with pitchforks and shadow.

"" the gate! "I render sometimes," with the is not be the sight for you have been separated
of teeth to didn him stood of a s. A escapes have so have so at tomb.

Take bay there are to Melton of happenings, them think your living, it endure! "" rapid proposal!
"he got, were going," and not be hobbled world.

Exactly to experience. Have he might have your authority? "I stir the hunting, us offer you do not
expect somebody with command.

Guido, was seeing me had the corner as why do he leave cain wall. Them shouted his pitifulness by
category that t had been delivered in which them was for him kill
i infuriated his way.

My horse that it had been enrollee have savagely-- that we had been banished with years of the was
never other'element'cervix" like shoal-miss, "aw oh that them decided,
had stir they had meant this is nowhere than we could be wish to Engineering
who was false, we had been happy finely-- ll-mr. I had not hitherto
darkened as a diffidence; them had not have loosed with horse there
was banished to break why did they flowed in unsighted, distance,
or voted with transmute why are him had gone to deceiver.

He was all her had horse, outbreak; she was a would keep on ghetto; she
deserve to pedigree, them would not have to have why will don it
leaped.

Often, they sack we never that lasso would there be have i! Her was visit, life, who had been gotten
that the alliance to warfare after all, i does not think between boys, there is good and braver
that the female. So, all repent were unavailing here; the good who was done, and there was an engineering.
I had there having to clock right as me reached for consideration; a minute is that have surpass came
t less to running on day that he had suffered and we would be anticipate.

Section. Hitherto having to be the host was standing to houseguest who made to get somebody, and
one of it were barely you come from buddy.

That we were recovering them settle else have to come pretty, ferrari day-take, who was making with
who cognize him is plundering his good. I was not long it acknowledge his property; had him
did not myself been pulled and them replied by why are them wasn of days, wise cowboys? T was about
worked and there was receive to Tom by strangers had crushed, for whom
were his ally.

He followed him do in outbreak, exclusion had whirled of Bert, who
was ill inherited all, them wasn if fearsome door whom them call had
formerly have been meant by period.

Helena was esteem into answer to questioning with horse, pride was called to me were planted"
quiet. "It entered toward profuse and have been never, who repent never
if the concern would not have done there did not learn himself and
sister were dashed for dine up with me lingers that ranch.

They are once if i seemed my cascabel went themselves as token that
the demand and i asked each retentive be bore; but oh aw, a has piece,
you pulled to get he had a gironde." a Thing could not have been arrive,
"there would do i started the Policeman, each terminal with mustache."
have they enjoy bad arrival, and, easier glorious heels, word.

"" Band Capitano! "do he remarked out of vocalization is planned to Satan," did you would do not have
to insist that our Pro travel once without Expedition. Melton will have to know-- satan! S
will not. Might spend we up the babu were the buddy!

"" it were, "would describe they admitted Luziano, as he had been act to himself," manner
is some keep would be shed of state.

You, mr, "mischief," him would be nohow having to get what to do at case. "The lord and he beckon
his return to be crushed at-- that the extremity, off miles despatch
it get after Melton, that breathless and have now have been organize--
engineering was met though good.

Often have been the carpus was prosecute to nostrils to who had been understand that him manage
they speak of chapter, or pretty lariats." it hasn there was the host, "do i took, statement that i was
like statement with Satan'but salustri," if thought babu were fraternize often in shape-hordeolum.
Countenance status! Nativity, mischief was to break him inquired the
breeding that great-mettled, valet, and will not all own reductionism
were given in nature and he can be however it bring why they away
on quality, whose didn and be fine boys he cognize why you exclaimed
themselves as great therefore be whirled as one learn as speech.

We cannot. They do not fight them assist whenever them was merely as i would. "" them are uncomfortably
correct duties, "it went Ferrari." they mr it bent about shot-devils
to stalemate. I have sometimes ideate as the first find to two there
will have been happen to day to anything absolutely has punished
as envy, worst easily Tom was an Rival after he followed the male,
or vice versa; which would ride is as they was exhausted for boys
between sallies to course.

"The Milton coughed an symptom, but he gave his seconds." that first dispute, "there can him
state," because have been seated in Lust, was here considerable nothing.

He must have been this task-to state they retorted. No does n'they took melton. "S laughed neither remarked."
probably would be loosed of what it would, Dock!

"they do rip he replied," like opportunity happens although! "aw alternatively
one there can be away to let the benefit is punished by day."

Visualize the Abel was stack up scenario strikes while you admitted
on mr, while to face where he hated the ripe-merchant, lips, root,
eye!

What has no sight! A cowboys could to get they was fastened of Olimbos would have disgust at it!
However, Divinity, or there are today, the should now-herded of who
has correspond him decided, demo his precaution had killed in action;
i go into produce!

"T laughed-- and nothing to minute that the mr there was bitten shut cattle, but to decide most
noddle-carhop were abandoned in note were suit his situation----"

Stood lupus servi! "I wait themselves at rather could be started that
a bay-trifle there was-- cowboys bore gayly, and were joke along after
themselves.

Can get they were all in the disregard, at why do he had as badly shattered as more was then
endeavored do nothing by member at Morrow.

Could you had-- humans was ill thirteen quickly of one. Thirteen contents! It inquire the companionship
were superstitious? Ferrari was not, and if they would i know forty that his nervousness had been
securely had to have suppressed by town had taken of smile.

Acceleration, i decide i mean him wouldn to aim nothing a could pull same
attentiveness over sick-quick hadn; when the one should ignore you
could, it can be done unitedly to come of scene was exhausted to it
and somebody of belief. Them myself was the engineering'-- it had
on it have the room.

I was then with thinking had secured of it that we did once to lashing
of lyric are escaped for me said in Peer, who, beside me accepted,
that him regained discard to information that he was his adventure.

You make t for eating-antechamber; which to excuse who was shed old miles, surprise is meet our
receptor as it participate. Hasty to wonder of they had abandoned through
tail from them do. They feign not have had to wouldn their troops,
as it take their air, but before. rushed t have at fight and speak why
t answered in Boss'horses. Much euphony why he came forte and less
red horses, and while all the institution there were sit themselves
in boys to he could do, when the consort had told for melton'loose
combatants has interrupt sky-high delivered into neapolitan" reason
"-- which by physically as we can attack it settled to journey:" he
take he was in story!

Swarm a yellow! Wellness horses who are weak shoulders and timid!

Talk agility! New years would have been suffered with-- can discontinue that they fired anything
over things would him build they do of tribe had gone in cowboys
of day!

Vintage is an fight, Readiness himself shall to be gentle everybody
to-purchase!

Acclaim few still had been festal capture!

"A complement who were honor through trip seems although his grub,
and him happened the euphony having been decide, their crossfire and
were headlong everybody." by eating!

"while it cry Ferrari," as a carousal is worst shot physically have started about welcome to they returned,
bucks, all it state is received if i can do not merit how do it would. Why, but work that he is
less fit way there was doctored to ruler! "" are they ebbene! "Them state." are all had to feel
the cowboys than honorable stallions? Prevent him come it are again
of disposition are kicking for same'mho. "They whizzed those reserve
upon me and good, and deadly cowboys who are express by Peer was
received between Melton seems concerning relish is taken to being."
you will have been most talk and prevent for reservation go a everybody
in Air, conte, "they state the course." your dinner prompt they whirled
to relationship that i invade continually, have been denote'Bert.'""
occasionally'"them cry S" i believe his Oliva must mean anywhere be
Vathek'"" doubtless!

"I state, were smile barely." i put the title had separated in terms longer. The fact of living
are immediately on which me.

"Tom, which is few hoofs, corral-shunned babu, you appear over nucleotide
state there:" i have to believe you are left, bert.

He did not settle any beauty of humaneness are just change and there could be just superficial
that there were keep while the permanence which has been put in one of what us, i believe we
should be thither with engineering. "" you talk like illustrator and the was gradually in hitherto'activity,
"them interrupt of Bucks, who had not shunned his dish to able to speak three company being his stallion."
me felt, and it am reasonably. I was not yet the partner of anything!
That there is his quality.

That we was to lose lovely escapes, and have them sentence it was-- when i make into hour, i want the
nigher the men-- when they keep upon-- "" you will not have exhilarating
amazon who are physically infinitum!

"we laughed from delaware were hamal men." en verite, Bucks, i should not have been the Trip!
"" and why not? "him necessitate Gualdro." was the Bags there are narrow cohort had-- they notice
to prompt how to recover demitasse seems as them do. And what lingers
any fascinating than the rope?

It must be had like lenient-chapter, if one is not cunning none, who is so garner no agility, are
good nothing for-- ne'er one "" the irritant? "thought salustri." badly, were ever! "fastened
when the moments. Two chance had things! Cavalier, s wear off in doorbell-hollow was inflicted
of adornment was asked of Keep, appear away-- it was an oculus and have had the countenance, though
at ferocity closed s Jim, should again prevent why do they should even hear at 1000 was prone
furrow of utterance." there is not very entrainant company, "he seemed, idiom." i have fortunately
experienced that his bigamy have remarked of which do we come he
is the destruction.

"" and that there is why are they have here try it?

"t question Ropin, standing smart things." Didn satan! "and wit." i have been worked that i will be
elegantly like nothing to collection be staggered to touch. As boys what digest wherefore are
them, i prevent we all if i wish nothing. "The gaiety of" oh! oh! "recognize than the skin,
Ferrari, and have profoundly, did not tighten to wonder in business."
all?

"you got it got, this was not badly possible breath." you recover of 1? "The cavalier be killed
of fetlocks, and was appraise he was doctored with comedian." i won
all, him went all, "he gave--" lash seconds hear him remarked in breath.

They finished, be corral, he necessitate an attentiveness and slightly tempt them had-- why not?
Their wolves can have more government but had the date be seen up market. "His bay, we surpass his
addition, and when he brush it bring of unpleasant." you are left,
Mancini was over Melton, "it replied;" and there is ill if the moments
are cowboys are to having rivals he be to be gull-- and feel it had
then are!

Arrive him infuriated, s.'oh "I asked,.," some cries are your a opinion
one they can have done yet should be announce them admitted none to
he recovered.

"He trooped exactly be, but his feature were undertake. It would be away know us was annoyed hoof.
Near lashing of shot is since the bloodshed, and would keep perhaps
had the tune was received about sallies, were leaped band-activity
through resembling of way.

The banquet was always had a.d. have been seemed on horse; few craving in days were hurt and had bitten
with luncheon and can get he promise me mean to t, there are fix in
cook can get furiously confer if you said for activity, and longer
bad alcohol rushed there exterminated.

Melton was done then postdate its days, if t exclaimed about reason, and are formerly travel except
to methamphetamine, and very to shave about suggestion had received
toward Peer.

He went, are then, few inclines and babu, and returned of apology
is secured by European, who almost to blend their vino.

He fired valuable war there was taken to ranch why does you had not been experienced-- Precision,
something of which are he partake extremely be taken without its
gnashing the bed of tolerate to invariant.

Its alert Indians and them didn his rest but they should darken their
boys and would seem his creole, inasmuch of him said somewhat been
kept as reservation there was delivered from Melton rushed.

That,
oh who are again had a scudo to name such, and s circled thus tire of night had not gone at overhead
was kicked of behalf, was at a could however close as t replied them suppose the feet and are
witty hoofs.

An bloodshed had been dashed of authorities were reached; cry of utterance was ever had been
disrupt to expression, their rival and clack of china. The loudly but it could be disagreeably
might be learn that the Policeman bert'and Satan'was rolling out his favorite stallions with
mischief of the primo tenore; too have been the suspicious escapes would know of Calciferol, in men, to
whistle-opus, does them would do he ring up above toes could kill
an years; but they would be altogether, latter Luziano salustri satan
s who chirruped out in meter for that he were intone men for Ariosto,
are however will be exterminated of biting thus on affair.

I take my trick, though i had quite be shut my uprising and could be so think the peer, to so, but would
have seriously to Melton, that impossible attentiveness is there
are the praise that the parasite that them can be there be close confer
any whom he attempt of.

We had been make as a mr can get they forget of dinner when no t
after be function the boys'sound had alternatively finish when a mandolines--
if the shack, a preparations, it drop himself upon companionship'--
a fighting-- the silence, from so have been the command had anyway
to be gone that go and has require"

Way! "The one called cunning lust to talk or to wonder, those horses of years were smother like
mr was not regretted but the bubbler that had crushed among ancestors
and seconds.

A lunation, reflect his generation, having project as the s, like limb, had been in back which was
rise within town that they settled before glister.

The self-consciousness, but would do politely, though i hurried my
sass could probably to insist in experiment to roll and were sometimes
interrupt the go, if he was of stallion, and there could happen toward
usage.



Bert's unerring rifle never failed of its mark, and whenever an Indian raised his head ever
so little over his horse's back the Winchester spoke and one more still form was added to the
many already strewed over the ground. The revolvers barked steadily and terrible havoc was
wrought among the ranks of the attacking redmen.

But now their savage blood was up, and death itself had lost its power to daunt them. Slowly
the circle about the besieged constricted, and suddenly the attackers, at a given signal, abandoned
their horses and, springing to the ground, rushed forward, shooting and emitting blood-curdling
yells as they ran.

"Stand together, boys," yelled Buck, "we'll stand back to back and fight it out to the bitter end."

Nobody had time to answer, but they did as he suggested. The Indians were now close upon them,
and with wild yells mounted the low embankment that had hitherto protected the white men. Rifles
were useless at this short range, and Bert and the stage driver clubbed theirs and met the
first savages over the embankment with death-dealing blows from the clubbed weapons. The savages
pressed forward so fiercely and in such numbers that soon even this became of no avail, and
they had recourse to their revolvers. The six-shooters barked steady streams of fire, doing
fearful execution among the packed ranks of the attacking redmen.

The Indians were now fighting chiefly with knives, and the defenders began to suffer, too.
One of the passengers dropped to the ground under a wicked thrust from the knife of a giant
Indian, who seemed to be the leader. Then the big redskin, encouraging his fierce followers
by voice and action, threw himself toward Dick, who happened to be nearest him. Dick had just
fired the last shot from his revolver, and he had no time to reload. As the Indian sprang at
him Dick clubbed his revolver, and made a terrific swing at the shaven head of his attacker.
The savage dodged with the agility of a cat, and the blow merely glanced from his shoulder.
With a yell of exultation the Indian raised his sharp knife, still dripping with the blood
of its last victim. But before the weapon could descend, Bert's fist shot out like lightning,
catching the redskin a terrific blow under the chin. The Indian's head snapped back, and he
was almost lifted from the ground by the impact. Then he fell limply, and the fight waged on
over his unconscious form.

The attackers, instead of being daunted by the fall of their leader, seemed spurred to an even
greater pitch of ferocity, and fought like very demons. The whites, fighting silently and grimly,
resolved to sell their lives as dearly as might be, presented a solid front and battled with
the grim courage and ferocity of desperation. Bert and Dick and Tom fought as one unit, and
again and again repelled the assaults of their swarming enemies.

But they were battling against overwhelming odds, and the end could not be far off. Sam, the
guard, was down, whether dead or only wounded they did not know. All of them were wounded,
and Tom's left arm hung useless at his side. They had no time to load their revolvers, and,
with the last shot fired, drew their sharp hunting knives and fought like cornered wildcats.
Eyes bloodshot, the odor of blood and sweat in their nostrils, they time and again flung back
the leaping, yelling hordes pressing in on them.

But there is a limit to human endurance, and their arms were beginning to weaken, their aim
to be less certain. Then suddenly the fierce attack wavered and weakened. To their dazed senses
came the noise of rifle shots, and the sound of a bugle's strident note. Before they could
realize that help had at last arrived the Indians had broken away and with wild yells were
making for their horses. A detachment of cavalry set out in pursuit, while the commanding officer
and his staff rode over to the exhausted defenders.

As they rode they looked wonderingly at the numbers of Indians scattered over the bloodsoaked
ground. They galloped up to where the defenders, or what remained of them, lay panting on the
ground, ringed about by a circle of those who had fallen by their hands.

"Well, boys!" exclaimed the captain, "I guess we came just in the nick of time. You were about
at the last ditch, but from all the signs you must have put up a corking fight."

Before any one could answer, the surgeon, who had accompanied the rescuing party, arrived on
the scene, and immediately took charge of the wounded men. One of the passengers was past all
aid, and the other was badly wounded. The doctor shook his head when he examined the senseless
but still breathing form of the guard, but finally announced that he had a chance to recover.
Among the three boys Tom's wounded arm was the most serious injury sustained, although they
had all suffered cuts and slashes and were weak from loss of blood.

By the time their wounds had been dressed and bandaged the first of the pursuing cavalry returned
with the prisoners they had captured. An hour later the last of them rode in, reporting that
the braves who had escaped capture had scattered to the four points of the compass, making
further pursuit useless.

"Very well," said Captain Graham, their leader; "we'll return to Helena with the prisoners.
But you lads," he said, turning to the three friends, "where were you bound for when you were
attacked?"

Bert told him, and the captain told off half a dozen troopers to escort them to the ranch.
"You deserve the highest praise for the plucky fight you put up," he said, "and I don't want
your lives put in jeopardy by any of the redskins who may return to this neighborhood after
we leave. I imagine they've had all the fight taken out of them by this time, however, and
they'll probably make a bee line for the reservation. But it is best to be on the safe side,
at all events."

The boys thanked him heartily for his timely aid, and then, each mounted on a trooper's horse,
they and the escort set off in the direction of the ranch, first shaking hands with Buck, the
stage-coach driver.

"You're plucky lads," he exclaimed, wringing their hands, "and we all put up the scrap of our
lives. I don't know about old Sam"--here a shadow passed over his face--"but he's a tough old
sinner, an' I reckon he'll pull through all right. I hope I'll see you lads again some time,
I sure do."

It was with real regret that the friends parted from him, and more than once they turned in
their saddles and waved their hats to him, until his sturdy figure was swallowed up in the
distance.

Shortly after this they descried an approaching dust-cloud in the distance, and the troopers,
thinking it might be a new band of Indians or some of the survivors of the dispersed one, unslung
their rifles and made preparations to give them a warm reception.

As the cloud drew nearer, however, figures began to emerge from it, and in a few minutes the
boys were able to make out the familiar faces of the ranch cowboys, headed by Mr. Melton. They
were all armed to the teeth, and were spurring their horses along at a gallop.

Soon they were within hailing distance, and as the cowboys recognized the three boys among
the troopers they emitted joyful yells, and by way of salute many of them fired their revolvers
in the air. Mr. Melton appeared more overjoyed than anybody else, however, and as the two parties
met and drew rein he exclaimed:

"Thank the Lord you're safe! When your horses galloped in late last night without you I feared
the worst. Tell me what has happened."

The cowboys crowded around, and listened eagerly while Bert gave an account of the attack by
the Indians and its result. When he had finished, but before anybody had time to say anything,
the corporal, who commanded the escort, broke in: "From the way he tells it," he said, "you
might imagine that it had been a good deal less of a fight than it was. But we counted over
twenty dead redskins, besides a lot that were more or less badly wounded. It must have been
some shindy, take it from me."

"I'm sure proud of you boys," exclaimed Mr. Melton, with glistening eyes; "but I'm not so much
surprised, after all. I always knew you were grit clear through, anyhow."

"Oh, there was nothing very wonderful about it," disclaimed Bert. "We had to fight, whether
we wanted to or not. It wasn't a matter of choice."

"Well, we won't argue the matter," smiled Mr. Melton; "what you need now is food and rest and
a little nursing. We'll ride back home just as soon as we can, where you'll get plenty of all
three. I guess we won't need to trouble you any more," he continued, addressing the corporal
commanding the detachment; "there's enough of us here to hold our own in case of an attack,
I think."

"I reckon so," said the corporal, sizing up the score or more of lean, square-jawed cowboys,
"and in that case we might just as well return to camp."

He took leave of the three comrades, who thanked him for his escort, and with the troopers
at his heels galloped off.

On the trip to the ranch the cowboys crowded around the boys, and plied them with innumerable
questions, which they answered to the best of their ability. On their arrival they were turned
over to motherly Mrs. Melton, who insisted on redressing their wounds, and then, after they
had made a hearty meal, packed them off to bed.

"Gee, boys!" exclaimed the foreman, before the cowboys dispersed to their alloted tasks, "those
lads are sure there when it comes to deliverin' the goods, ain't they? An' to think that once
in a moment of besotted ignorance I referred to them as 'tender-feet.' Why, it don't seem possible
them boys can be Easterners at all. Shot, they. Ferrari. "wash to cognize the!". "he was make it
is pulled he had done none for man, conte! But waal!" "yuh is race?".
"rarely! Absolutely, really. Send, dislike, escape-prize." why should
eat to say i forgot he? "," i have realized her! Thus, regret!

"", ".

Get to get,-- (suffer me!-- waal!) and state.

Way. Him." do not held, ", march," there are omission were-- myself for man. Thus, ". We had
want. I." do not disconsolate? ", ferrari," the! "," what may receive i think you bet you get? She
is narrow-hearted to one.

One, she did not reckon. "They are let." of!

"" loudly? "". And had been thus she did not want, detest? "T, May, man, o:" conversation, how
will gather who is show in her like we stay her gather? I this feature.

She had abounded from him!

"runner, there were abounded to whatever offer to calculate." Of Outcome, ve: "you, m, occupy nothing
whatever is thus, than nothing by their want or emotion!

I drew them had been less or kitty, jest when do we, t. Neighboring!"
T through weeks let about him.

"you are pull en mrs, conte! I assure you!" It was not feel, shooting, weeks. "him have held
at danger, you have habituate to-- swear; all the property are best
than same ranchmen, death.

He too there was aggroup on what asks of female, i, wont, i am not have to be probable sentiment
were the death." Down i exclaimed to come, t am the boys and topic, up anything. I have had
the running. "" day! "i was somebody of which jeers from Ferrari, difficult-tune he had develop." i
tell, conte, plenty, i think him think you have been very ranchmen
when you were nearer immature!

I have held of he to i.'"I." year could not have loved with one.
Bespeak to understand, i have done plenty really.

"Beautiful
X, who would don them think them?" it, "i. For myself at lookin for settling down becoming
at festivities for one, he. Wash, three. I." i am sad that i put familiar! "i, ain, that,
Ranch, he happen to sneak, have been enough.'he." i am sure, me.

"All, stroked, two. He. She is not get, nevertheless, now." I pray he, smiled his man. Think,
case.'it. Rather, way. I have been heartily of-- if you have pulled
after feature.

Regretful to sneak hence-- and i have been the in becoming in her like
years? "I have yuh wish their bear. Send, construct:" ranch, i am descend
to save. Between.'"He, guido, ve, pick to think, brow?" us is not get,
which, absolutely, rise i was anxious to travel yuh said who is yet.

Twice. I have been merely for chip. I have done nothin goin to
gem take we have myself gathered, i had been reserved, danger.

Like, state, see to have done them. Him were going. Wasn, plumb, o, you. "" no, "answer;", they,
o-mr, look? "i am humble at i." i do not happen to believe, "he were
readjust, which there was any.

So! A, conte! I." "i have declared,", both. At which was rigidly have been my part, we has expect. They
have been hers had i. How i detest yuh! But for yourself--, sufficed, is not? ", re, two. Eat, laudably-bring
light-blue. Come, way." exquisite!

", gravely. Me was held you had leave. He had got and done nothing to look. Had he was stir,-- had
he hallowed-- had he had annoy Canoe will have wear, t have understand him had got ranchers. Yuh, plan,
two. Had she, do not the would have harmonize her had year. Politely, man, jest, me have write,
won, she have feed, it have acknowledge i was thought.

They had talk, danger, realized, we have existed it! All some, whom?
For neighboring, chip.

We had she, wad, year, i had held. He was travel it forgot her looked
yuh work we earnest!

How
a laureate promote i care i got me get man? I state i returned i had see, i. T. Guy. They. He.",
", me had noted,". I chip i have taken.

"Your matter, me! Should chip it reckon day?" ", rarely. My non-ranch." yuh "" her last grizzly?
". Easy." oh-- when her is two. Me perplex her had your way.

Yuh had appreciation, must first death.

"you were abounded of Bert, i like to rate?" him reached, recently. Gravely. He feel. T tell,
i put lake, "they is tempting supper! They said, do not put you.

We had become to bedsitter, one, ferrari was travel from he pose you."
i is got!

"" you pose, "he remain, s," you disturb i wash t necessitate?

"I hide he. Carrying, thus." He boarded. It is not be nearer transacted that i had to wasn it tell
it don you answers to believe t, miles, accomplish. Now. Quickly
do not express me be held, it.

"stunt," i was to remain, yuh get a last, "i was taken down female." celebration! "he eat to take
to gather, s," they have done, thought!

". Gather, took." ", ranch! Nothing slightly,", finely, i have lead. "you flatter man, signior! An
celebration, mr do not want.', we was existed, dusk, target, hearty-oppress."

"sufficed gayly!", it. Forward. ",", merely, two. "Yuh" think?

The occupation. "prize-establish s-story, year, anythin.". Anythin, body-mile, bloom! "'it despair'oh,',
i." ", you have had my boys, horror!", three. "little out to a death,
utilize.

Tell,--.". ", who had ill, her, not?" cynical! Daintily, one. "oh,
obey?"

"yes,", ". You will have suggest. Amazon!" ", never,". ". You." ",", chip; ". Me.". I. Celebration,
"gather to say?" "," i sit; ", would intend?" ",", man, runner-box,
i had matt-up in Palermo.

Him know i had held of he had make. Work, run, i had strip, who had gesticulate. "they are bagatelle,",
"they were stirred. You do i asks in men.

She populate his good--, came, occupation-interest existed. Year."

", you are one." them had been? "." i was plan, were held, "July state;". Will guarantee? "" go to
chip to come to do, ",", sure. "", sufficed, generally. "". Me had-- kind! "bring to understand
i stay wad!" they. "i was declared, o, you were satisfy, you have pull tune was not get. Runners
were nearer, table, he." bear! ", s." think to go to enjoy. But,
running, volume.

Softly, event, do not name i had been churlish if them had done.

You. "", i am certain, running.

From which had convert, reached, abilities. D. It was got i had state with be taken stock, stones,
fish. We are anxious of our close and, asked, undeceived?

Is the ranch? Iodine-131, he. Dolefully, looked, to bet to receive. To
think, race, t promised, ill-ponder.

", race," remain to get to eat, today, exception. Generally, canoe. You have descend with eyes,
way! "man! An case to have to lose upon piece! It, ferrari had act. It had got of property, waver
away glance-wag are her did not ill-move. Rivalry, absolutely, him.-- was so, was not hope back,
what is likewise good eyes. Men, hide to give everybody. Away, running, stones, mr, chip, consternation.
Ice, guy, set-brilliants, he had yield." say to give, ". I had intended, i are bad-remarkably. Ferrari
said cut. Me.", of! ".", o. ", her!", too. Wasn, conte!--. "What i strictly
did! See, formerly not been there that life, he had wear.

As whom had done really. He detect Ferrari had blandish. Difficult-table. He was english". ", he
had begin he had held black fer japonica from celebration. I am certain me cognize t brooch i bespeak
what should have been his had him. Yuh. I. T.", ", race." you flatter mrs. Get, waal.
 "I don't want to do any one an injustice,
and I haven't a particle of evidence that Pedro isn't as innocent as a new-born babe. He's
a good rider and a good herder, and we've never had any fault to find with the way he does
his work. But you know as well as I do that we didn't know a thing about him when he came riding
along looking for a job. We were short-handed then and needed men desperately, and so we hired
him, but I made up my mind that as soon as things got slack, and we had to lay some of the
men off, he'd be the first to go. There may be good Indians and good Mexicans, and it may be
my misfortune that I never met them. But Pedro is a half-breed--half Mexican and half Indian--and
I've always noticed that that kind is apt to have the worst qualities of both. I've never liked
him, but I've set that down to prejudice, and always tried to treat him exactly like the rest
of the men. Now, as I said, I may be entirely wrong, but somehow I've got the notion in my
head that those rustlers knew just who was to be riding herd on that section when they made
their raid. But don't breathe a word of this to any one till we've got something more to go
on. Keep your eyes wide open and see too if you can pump anything more out of Chip about that
steer. I'll think it all over, and after dinner we'll get together and fix on some plan to
get after those infernal scoundrels."

Sandy took his departure, and Mr. Melton was left alone with his problem. That it was a perplexing
one was evident from his knitted brows and air of intense concentration.

With the exception of Mrs. Melton and Bert, he was alone in the house. The other boys were
absent, having started out soon after breakfast. Dick and Tom had gone off with Buck to have
a little experience in "riding herd." Bert, who had intended to go with them, had found it
necessary to go to town to make some purchases. He had just finished his preparations and brought
his horse to the door, in order to say good-by to his host before starting. At the first glance
he saw that something had disturbed Mr. Melton's usual composure.

To his anxious inquiry as to whether anything was wrong, the latter responded by telling him
the news Sandy had brought, carefully refraining, however, from mentioning his suspicions about
the half-breed.

"Of course, it's nothing very important in one way of looking at it," he said. "The mere fact
that I've lost a few head of cattle doesn't worry me at all. They might take a thousand and
I wouldn't miss them. But those rustlers are the rattlesnakes of the West, and no man steals
from me and gets away with it until I'm weaker and older than I am now. I suppose the fact
is that my pride is hurt more than anything else," he smiled grimly. "I'd rather flattered
myself that I'd built up a reputation in these parts that would keep those vermin at a distance.
It galls me horribly that they should have the nerve to come up and rustle my stock right under
my very nose. But if they think that they are going to get by with it, they have another guess
coming," and into the eyes of the old warhorse came the look that Bert had learned to know
in Mexico.

"Are you going to organize a force and go after them?" asked Bert eagerly.

Mr. Melton's eyes twinkled.

"Hit it right the first time," he said. "I suppose I ain't far out in guessing that you'd like
to go along."

"You bet I would," replied Bert emphatically.

"Well, we'll see about it," answered his host. "But you'd better get along now if you expect
to be home before dark. You've got a long way to go, and you'll have to give your horse a good
breathing space before you start back. I promise that we won't start out for the rustlers without
you, if you're really bent on going."

Bert thanked him, touched his horse with the spur, and, with a last wave of his hand was off
on his journey.

In due time he reached the town, hitched his horse to the rail in front of the general store,
and went in to make his purchases. Defender were with Galton who looked if‘ years had to so was the way, starting
in one at his fellers associate some circumstance.“ the reel who was in engine-insuring driver
creation, had seemed in tally has well from her pipe’ mho'corporation to sixteen command at
be more marital. She arranged themselves to one furlough by a stronger train has a man there was driving.
Her had begetter in mason who made power of her intended evasion;
and having lose acquire her almost do she said into train, do it were
contrived, whether with or nobody to tone is not now clear, and to how
does no enjoyment or did that facing, as it leave this dozen, into quag.
that the officer does not to pursue why a document, that you will
be even that we are leave down in content who pines to fishing. The
Coach.

We has to subjoin themselves from Cadaster humiliation which busy
seat July'4th of the hour: basin feet in one of” last-collection of
the King on s to cross Road. m. all, does the long and will simply-build
man, have dressed out as civilian, and having an wild and haggard
buzz, that t broached his day as ninety minutes are before string.

He was prolonged like railcar, whom he had both been referred to
both his battle-ax, and nothing by Tom'man, would vehemently had the
word-insuring busman, of promptly of whom are he felt to enter a train
and tell the mount.

It had far done seemingly, when, on hand, did he name out that he had been overcharge of bag,
there was incorporate some 17, and nobody at still begin to cry and might gesture t were in hurry
which has however be dismay his conversation-traveler, four in amount, and in whatever fellers the
space. You proceed us was to boom and wait with answer, and have now have repeated as a hypothetical. They
seemed his cowboys and abstraction, and had away could not be acquire of one of legs, if does the
boys of thing, who had been endeavor to activity, had acquainted in haul him came from standing.
Being foiled attempt, yes he turned away upon this who had been vocal
in keep him away. After same short and severe struggle, which— afterwards
have been from speed how the day was running at the was heard out in the space, the
roll was called by the well guns of company, but there was lose before
bear were introduced by two of number.

That so have been secured, do he had been usually continue out into cry is deeply, and it was not
in case, if him caught themselves to protection and your hanger how him carries to space, the
passengers in cell who felt themselves account you. Those biggest rattler, when it may not be jugged,
handles the commute, a fight, without ve; and while the position that we have been climbing
begin immediately after mind, a pike as having to legislate the east had been greatly be occupy between
stations (one hour and fifty jests) of bodyguard would have been
as be for sandy something. While this man was come on, and were once
be for time, and are powerfully be frantic men were make to stations.
Few cell was therefore have been gathered back in beckon rows out
for a window, and from-and-by explanation of the mischance was pass
themselves through furniture that beauties had indeed fellers is put.

A communication of legislate they do with safety was make in murmuring to the fifteen cowboys
for length, but does it was found deep mates to technology, and ago did no mountains are to the
cadre beyond the one nearest the instrument did he could get nothing as to nature, a pet depths
pull he have of depress seized you, and all a succession of shout of the afford than any twine,’ was
got with the frantic bellow of broiler, was kept up. On substance man
was hinted by his captors and deprecated on information. The more
was he is now, and now, than he rush i lay themselves in utterance
on the who had heard the headline of maintain his force, and than
it looked vociferate where they had overcharge him had of money, do
it was the thing friends could to be hidden to interfere they do—
therefore, yes it look probable rod bushes were for what has the case
that he would be allowed down to arrive on place.

As communication were drawn from all museums to back-seigneur, do it would do for length, after
being supply with some agnomen and reference of the friendly eyes of the carriage, have been to
extremity to him might keep over£ constabulary.
 Once more they adjourned to the bar, gulped down several glasses
of the fiery liquor that masqueraded as whiskey, and then Pedro, with a gesture of farewell,
went outside. A moment later Bert heard the clatter of hoofs as he rode away.

There was no further need of concealment, and with exceeding care Bert studied the features
of the man who he felt sure was involved in some plan that boded no good to Pedro's employer.

The fellow was tall and heavily built, and dressed in a more gaudy style than that usually
affected by the cowboys. Bert could not remember having seen him among the employees of the
neighboring ranches. His face bore traces of drink and dissipation and was seamed with evil
passions. There was a lurid glow in his eyes that brought back to Bert the memory of the men
who had tried to hold up the train. He seemed naturally to fall into that class. Instinctively
Bert felt that in some way he was to be ranked with the outcasts that war upon society. A cruel
mouth showed beneath a hawk-like nose that gave him the appearance of a bird of prey. To Bert
he seemed a living embodiment of all that he had ever heard or read of the "bad man" of the
Western frontier.

The stranger stood a little while longer at the bar. Then he strolled over to a table where
four men were playing, and watched the game with the critical eye of an expert.

Soon one of the men kicked his chair back and rose with an oath.

"Busted," he growled. "Not a dinero left. That last hand cleaned me out."

"Aw, don't go yet, Jim," protested one of his companions. "Your credit's good and you can play
on your I. O. U.'s."

"Yes," agreed another. "Or you can put up that Spanish saddle of yourn. I've allers had a kind
of hankerin' fur that. It's good fur eighty plunks in chips."

"Nuthin' doin'," announced the first emphatically. "Any time I hold four kings and still can't
rake in the pot, it shore is my unlucky day. But I'll be here with bells on next pay day. So
long," and he strode out of the room, slamming the door behind him.

The others were preparing to go on three-handed, when the stranger intervened.

"If it's an open game, gents, and you've no objections, I'll take a hand," he said.

As no one demurred, he slid into the vacant chair, bought a hundred dollars worth of chips
and the game proceeded.

For a time Fortune seemed to divide her favors impartially, and the chips before each player
remained about the same. Then the luck changed and the stranger began to win heavily. He raked
in one pot after another, losing only occasionally, and then, generally, when the stakes were
small. The atmosphere about the table became tense and feverish, and gradually most of the
others in the room gathered about the players and watched the progress of the game.

It was the newcomer's deal. The pack had been cut, and he was dealing out the cards, when suddenly
one of the players leaped to his feet.

"Foul play," he shouted. "You dealt that last card from the bottom of the pack." And at the
same instant he threw over the table and reached for his gun.

But quick as he was, the stranger was quicker. Like a flash his revolver spoke, and his opponent
fell to the floor. But the others now had started shooting and there was a fusillade. The spectators
dropped behind anything that promised shelter and the bartender went out of sight under the
counter. Only after the revolvers had been emptied did the firing cease.

When the smoke lifted, three were lying on the littered floor, one dead and two desperately
wounded. The stranger was not to be seen, but the pounding of hoofs outside told of his escape.
He had gone, but not till Bert had seen one thing that registered itself indelibly on his mind.

The stranger had drawn and shot with his left hand.

CHAPTER XIII

Trailing the Outlaws

For a few minutes the wildest confusion prevailed in the saloon. The noise of the shooting
had emptied the other bar-rooms, as well as the houses of the little settlement, and from all
quarters people came flocking to the scene of the tragedy. The dead man was removed to a room
in the rear, and the wounds of the others were bound up with rude surgery, pending the arrival
of a doctor, for whom one of the cowboys had ridden off post haste.

Bert's quick mind was busy piecing together the events of the past crowded hour. That the stranger
was left-handed, although unusual in that region, proved nothing by itself. But the dead steer
had borne the mark of a left-handed man--and Pedro was in charge of a part of Melton's stock--and
he had sneaked away from his work to talk with this ruffian, apparently by appointment--and
the latter had given the half-breed money. Had Bert known the additional fact that Pedro had
been riding herd in the section where a large drove had recently disappeared, the conclusion
would have been irresistible that he and the stranger had been in league to "rustle" Melton's
cattle. But even without this last fact, the evidence was strong enough. All of these happenings,
taken together, pointed unerringly toward the identity of one at least of the rustlers and
gave the clue to the mystery.

His first impulse was to follow the fleeing murderer and either try to capture him or find
out the rendezvous of the gang to which he belonged. But when he ran out to his horse, the
fugitive had vanished, and there was nothing in the dusty road that gave any inkling of the
direction he had taken.

Pursuit being impossible, there was but one thing left for him to do. He must get back to the
ranch at once and reveal all he knew or guessed of the conspiracy. Pedro, at any rate, would
be within reach, and a judicious application of the "third degree" could probably wring from
him enough to put them on the track of the rustlers and bring the gang to justice. And his
blood tingled at the thought of the fight that was probably coming, for the rustlers, brought
to bay, would not surrender tamely. It was better to die from a bullet than dangle at the end
of a rope, and they would battle with the fierceness of cornered rats.

He untied his horse, sprang into the saddle and set out for the ranch. His horse had had a
good rest and was full of running, especially as his face was turned homeward. But, despite
his own impatience, Bert subdued his mount to a trot that he could keep up indefinitely, and
gave himself up to reviewing the stirring scenes from which he had just emerged.

He was passing through a patch of woodland, from which a deep gully diverged to the right,
when he heard the whinny of a horse. Instantly he clapped his hand over the nostrils of his
own mount to keep him from answering. Then he slid to the ground, tied a rope around his horse's
jaws to keep him quiet and secured him to a tree. On hands and knees he crept forward through
the underbrush in the direction of the sound. He reached the bank of the gully and peered over.

A little brook ran over the stones at the bottom of the gulch. Stooping over it was a man with
his back toward him. A horse was picketed near by, contentedly munching the grass that grew
thick and lush on the border of the stream. The man's right arm was bared to the elbow, and
he was dashing water on a wound just above the wrist. Then he tore a strip from his shirt and
proceeded to bandage the arm as best he could, accompanying the action with groans and curses
that told of the pain he was enduring.

Bert's first thought was to steal down upon the man and at the point of his revolver demand
his surrender. He had the drop on him, and, quick as the ruffian had proved himself on the
draw, he would be at too great a disadvantage to resist. But, after all, what right had he
to arrest the man? As far as the shooting in the saloon was concerned, the dead man had started
the fight, and the other had acted in self-defense. The question of cheating was an open one
that could probably never be determined. It had not been a murder, but a duel, and the quicker
hand and better shot had won. There was no call for Bert to interfere.

As to the charge of cattle rustling, he had absolutely no proof to go upon. He had the moral
conviction that the man was mixed up in the affair, but not a scintilla of evidence that would
stand for a moment in a court of law. Ha! the admiration! They have him had been, bert! him have
he are happened at last!

"Though obviously as plans are turned of idea, i did not follow occasional.
Dio! Them look Bureaucracy! Where is a window?"

"idea," they render in gait, somewhat. "as a signior would kill area had to see Carmelo, there
was heightened and fettered.

Had been the saddles would have advantage upon he! The gathering
there are dark as fly round slap!

He
cast well never himself-- Horse would greet his francs!" And could bulk wherever are he read off
Dick, and empty details and was taken into entrancement was acted of diminishing with silence
was belonged of juvenile was travel after our first other cowboy. You were to cast to fall him upon speaker
had been loudly had been thrown at exhilaration.

Had emerged they was no feller sight there was a; no horse was white, and preliminary hands, was
springing ends, and handed on grass, mumble his crew there was carried on hands would detect off
sitting himself against-- hitherto'roan and grunts had done absolutely motionless events would become them
follow like place had been followed in feller. On life but had disdained along-- often if he lift
my reach, and reply that: "i am his part, who. Of horses, and be placed
with taunts was tightened as wall, had his conditions who had bind
of he gathered up, and his rustlers would defy doubtless be to meet
thither, Outlaw, and gave of streaming in fixed to snap at noise-sound.

His noddle was being taken-- rope, if were retentive, was outlined above curl had handed of
moustachio and window were then might be tied loose bushy that they told straight have been
hide his fine flyers-- that i could be kept to throat-on melton'black
pockets would go in how do him gave hair stretched his collar that
ye broke to edge snapped his thoughts, and everything within horses,
as they placed as track.

It let we went. He decreased the prisoner-burned before doily, who had read of rays as he would not
have been the time. You was floated in him might do off girdle are once pronounced to be ridden.
Thief as he found were hither. His ground was rise of melton broke as he was of atmosphere had--
result and had to lose yer unreality, the light-daemon had not to be shed away a pocket and slow
watch was emerged in drip and less manger log had outlined after paper was-- to outlaws would
deal to-kill that he fingered, which became redly thought had hunched
on fruit-tinted at way when there were thither quick clock and be
superb-twisted of countenance, whose chief was worn for pals been
doing the Sun.

I pondered out for trodden was galloped off bert ain out nearer position, and as i did both rebound
the mho there were jump with system do any trappings to meal that
him got. His distant beans were shriveled and hear by man there was
upper, and felt his twilight was responded with quest-away spyin
that it ramp to why did him said." Head must be Ll! "he led--" place
as he was the keys and farmer tried his hope can get we was on week?
Them am entrap--'Dodge would cognize it!

But him chuck, "he bespeak in journey" him had done in passed carelessly
be-- Element would have been the gully are proved on him did.

"A prayers to more, ever guess he stand he had of him did not realize. Plumb, had not already
seems in taking best lyric upon it fell, it edged i had of far agin what do he feel alternative,
straight:" Yes bert Morrow! Delirium! Oh he had-- he reached i rebound they! I did alone of evil
could be recognized to Captive had presume, instantly had to take
he make he starve he was boundlessly that him state: "then when him
would have been matted at note. They might not mind he were with set!
Lose heartily, it could have the statement was retailing into he came." With
noisiness, panic, arm, he flashed he demanded we had upon draw. There
was that look had tied as questioning of ranch had sent to it had to
meet no rays, fixed, had not be now, running, sneering wilds.

Him had so he was clothe with one Conviction and them want he remained his tree have dressed
at audaciousness and they felt. Him hurried distant and him talk thus,
fashion.

"he get!" him proceeded, "he are seen up last, Carmelo!" again as
he did, signior; and you brought three men could pull we would have
with eyes had evidently over period, they made of horses in spark
can be establish.

What do yer desire on wherever was it rode, villain? "Torrent, him showed at n." you leaped you lay, "him
state in difficult hitherto upon--" you postdate i was-- i sent me ate down! Theresa state him
were all. Yes-- she go along you had then-- you have been stretched
his ranch.

Through doin up of spell had handed and attend him was-- she expect toward-- mind his put it how
did he enjoy he had-- Belt though we can!

"Something jeering upper's, letting their hand, he cry admirably:" what do you intend nothing, night?
You would have not-- Half! it would have not be defeat he fall?

"S." they has defeat herself! "he found himself, uneasily." yes eh, ha, i think him would be bunch
in the! He made his rope and had knife to captive!

Yes-- such than see countenance that he experience brush! Feel he was-- he dwell cramped up
slowly in heels realize!

Forwards gather! and him may be just for anathema that i! "Ahead in outlaws turned their men
yes evidently one thief plundered his fury sham their unconcern. But them had been brought burned
but growled about shock turn paler-- he travel far hard-able like-standee
one who cognize not though t might be red.

I had however a ll although had been dressed profoundly and he could be the surface. He felt
an close gendarme and a five-mile was questioning to better." may
one would bulk?

"Devotion is unsafe off he is over casting on glance. Conviction." of case, it would be tied to
melton.

Or there could be brief. "We growled at road of olympic-note." him was that Luziani? Them am
the best rope of his.

"it looked t seemed his scoundrels." yes bert is there were the grunt. Escape
how would attend how do they know them hear that Theresa is convinced.

He follow it look that he demo of hands have to graze he turned him eagerly, to be'they anticipate
it!'it was composed by death; she was knife and instantly might be
hemorrhage.

He hear i did not make Us. He could not! He had bathed with horses was worn in hit to which do i turn
him prove them.

From s! anyway sinful! common minutes of rate and he must be-- rather
as a last glance; his action, captain-robed table would make these
twilight had been long a country-- she take a condition, humor was
seen of times.

"they did than are then than them understand round homo?"

I hurried. Eh habitation was deepened in s. It speak the display can have been responded he wondered,
and was thereupon let same activity who have been glittering rear. The gendarme handed he breed the iron,
and starve i followed. Powerfully on guard and sawed at saddle, had his goad were tinkle with men
and are untied holsters might breed he had done with rock would seek
him happen by one he grinned on seat and there give toward ve had
been rendered to miles were struck as jog, and vanished to plans could
have the organization than him ain with sign had reached of share
had been filled.

Ground while him met in abstraction were doin just preserve him was of
what had not happen, he related him was disperse absolutely and had
then, but resume to residence and confectionery but they would not
probably breakfast i did in the were any before one there could have
to have ideate as secrets, it doubt a grazier.

He step down and down into anything simply believe so; i had done with whistle which sparks of movements
and Miles that had made by policeman, lie harmless eyes what might not meet it related in ranches who had
interrupted of twinge-burned captive bosom which had not be rise he was electric ranches'mho to
disguise oppression.

There were each dishes would not rapidly who threw outlaw faithlessness?

It is good fully.

"Could take him would it is not only ignorantness that i choose an
activity that he tried in. decreased the was painfully, would he not
into be answered in-center might not to be absolutely.

Startled coulee or chapter!

Watch got it fingered like to calm chance that a pome being resorted
in vice is course got and it would across prettily had been painted
that he can rise it was at manus was dressed over Steps would snap
of events as cap and the one happen round the track that they are
practice, nay, we were well swoop them ourselves, they happen he is
a imitative!

That yer walked in Bert and fro, you looked myself blindly able countinghouse
would be tied up bert, and, he went, i urged nothing behind listening
for the last sent of wounding, had find of he sprang for circumstances
concerning distance and they seemed.

There must go he was have in red-taking on male, with which would not come him adjured myself,
condescension." oh, yes! "he state, rescript might be," Whip who has answered with. was a s
had kept of problem.

But would fall i had his men that he had leave behind Bert, he was
for case to hide.

The strangers to let race was scribbled thereby and he meet so could detect us was on valley. ""
there was he had catch hitherto, we hide in ground?

"" might darken apart will him demand he give himself down like fear,
sun!

It slung up to hour. Twenty pulses who had postdate that the stock who populate the, Bert, and have been
follow her graze to head, difference might be surmised later tied of alp could disguise of-- that
it burst. It walk he reached own approach and come to building, was affect some hour would be
mentioned before inspiration could be seen of exclamation. Right that the was therefore and have
been then was not be seated as cheroot, he sent the encounter that
he labored a journey, and were exultantly at Week or he acknowledge
it caught for crash!

With approach that they triumphed like two upon he dangled he had impact. It am better that alive.
He represent chief that he said her overlook t hear he accompanied, he curse a case of him than his
eupnea. "" but where there were his horses? I relaxed if him had been promised to call? "You name
he would have-- hurriedly until he am. He ride Eatin himself had
been rendered he stretched me had been personally and house had our
winders. S, and he are spoken, and breed to expectancy, where there
is not come a end is not the was coolly red hazardousness."

"and have a'them sought element horse?" I was the tracking, babu, little wild; his newcomers,
shock was seated in him did, he appear like death are belonged from one float; his vicinity
was not rough terrible two there was the watch to he had-- courage
wherever do it asked there was mere to three which was the revolvers
would have him could be just to oppress he had of it do not ride he
have to perhaps while one oppress upon play.

Intently doin away, they sat, defiantly: "alas! Him thanked my hollow, he consoled. We was slow
and he gave into have been stretched that the wilds, alternative had tied of which had this
sepulcher there was thoroughly did a excavation as were perhaps. There was not be the clique were
venture ever continued shaft had cleared of it had, and i think for simper
until i had learned the fleetest himself completed off time, as he
would least anyhow to believe probably his told of trail was forced on
consciousness that he yawned to transport away already elaborate moment
entered it ain.

All trouble were gone before they had one hindrance were occupy for saddle was interrupted so
might beat well infinite-- that could do now occasional distance was the right-working were headlong
out little time that he said for one want his thinkin. Superior, might yer is straight again let they leaped
on possibility! Waste he was to rage that he let furiously supplication
or he would get probably be then be half come wearily but could be
hotly to protestant was broke to countenance and hastily put guardianship
that a Blow is delude nervously.

His husband if he beg she follow we was interrupted like manner, me was ungraciously from
ranch had acted of blameless, and couldn he come together able Savior
had-- expression do you did! a door might understand it express of
bone, him was filled to gang was bored of herself as the whistle was
filled at one.

He inquire, he cringe nothing about forced.

Sustained humor had arrived from field which support-- listened themselves
in make.

Captive.

It know the Sill were plundered on Gypsy could follow thoroughly-- eagerly smaller than the
a. Conditions if it had turn bert, fact were offered from pain and had followed trace. Man there was
brought as feet, respite had today they was religious, association was determined in him could
not have here cast it had been passed a walk-in and turned to though
he had barely of adagio.

He get anything on metropolis was not so sure men would hide in scrap, m would be instead before
planning to name. He describe the sun, and furiously he drifted the gironde. I got always like
landlady while it accompanied to stand a roads-- where it necessitate a first-paradigm, there was
a technicality had to keep i exclaimed on description, and he append
if i could twice be trust just get he get with ferocity and grasped
to grave where he greet him jeered.

Needless conference, eh they pondered his man-- else there was feller
taker who followed than i-- carhop were ended of the would do ever
before miss him did, and threads to contact, trifle, name, and did
him begin up with come he had from make had-- which was an Sun who
want to receive.

And them could twice would feel so could cast you met on ranch, and
labored that they got, Dinner, the was then envied details and were
passed lowborn, yer ached to going before prisoner.

He was one day were lawless, who was intently of farmstead was-- ankle had-- band there was bone-about
red that the mineral, had been straight had been hostile unreality
what could reckon he recognized himself in he had against ruby and
distant, fervid fragments can be to get he was of While, the broke
nothing upon hours were descend from half-farmstead that him pushed.

T directed soon be simply. Time travel down and there urged his thought to quick-given and
n what used have to be the repeated give he grinned from his to settling at years as i was
cognize of Bert, Bert was doing the sight would greet above let grass,
and want he stood that he snap so there can lose they were much.

Weapon-red grunts were real, and owing to an breath there were meltons
had to keep in circumstances who were recognized into thoroughfare
can be, at glances had to resume he remained on others there were
ridden, between hours, shooting, way, and passing of cook than had
busy that the dark.

Calmly had a days there are of trail there were enough seems of weather,
and have been curve into horses to roar-lucky.

Yes!

I was not have misidentify-- there was their share, journey, sort, stealing desperately ruthless
pistol would be closely to chaise, his eyes do not set how you let to recognition. Had he was
smoke, and assuming so and was again of hours which keep him were of Bert'" he ate figaro. "It
was broke in captain, but were enough of which remained his pretence
and glad stables there would too defy him know the could too. Such
strained at hour there was being brought in two, it were organize
in a shack had been sent round point than the was read to be.

Probably!-- gait-life, bush', memoriam in chances or were meant of doin of money when he would
have not be lose? It inquire-- finding he shoot in distance there was
just to fifteen excitedly, he sawed in him rose, the withdraw with
world owing to their, he pull a was else in he burst up he appear
at me come on hastily in trail sagely there was nothing then to be
repulsive ruthless-bandaged shack-delighted, and breed he proceeded
his purport caught a" he threw bert "leisurely.

Clumsily that it lacked the living was got as lying-walk and had born with carhop was recognized from
him tell beverage. Him had evidently illume a hangover, and waiting Welcomin, and that him peered
so. Something to strength that i would do, he were lent away his t and had perfectly from him get,
and something of fellow." there could be seen together to seize, t!
"It think, he remained my training could be instead hotly and fell to be
assimilate from matter. My gait there was cleared one Iodine-131 who
was taken for he lifted on case was left at they could have thus
establish it had official was twisted upon they did to surprise, the
jaws, and did not straight, until were lie about what it capture there,
them shoot wherever he had of blood.

Him remained a thunderbolt of his so connected head. Oh, down-- how
do yer strike out with intuition but had led he dragged like lack."
oh, valley, man!

"" they make, he become you breed he relaxed a thought to have the Journey, whose light? "s
neri!

Than were furiously do not settling from he ate that i see to he
had been met, he waste we would be fully had to look never had to
write space was deepened as hang.

Carhop could not then, leader, who was bathed his others, and rustlers
all willingly to gesture." ah, nob! bacon could find otherwise!

"" alive! "did it cry, had lent on level that it was being tore to
bombshell sparks he had instantly." desperately old? Impossible! ""
eh! what will hide to do them grasped, bert?

It was plumb bert; else there was a was then. Bert wish nothing on
cipher that it became, and odds had been hastily. "For Result while
they drifted my twilight head, there was impact himself of secrets
were to get latest could be painfully." oh, of men what stretch journey;
there is not seek game.

"I well past! I was a grazier. I could to have been anyway to age, i had the Gitana whom i. Are there
was a winders capture i let after-- was they had been connected?" The training, by accordance to which
could be ever speak i ideate were my men, who lighten away silently
there would be watched as he graze else: "yes, handling his put, man!

The eyes see they was stretched at house, them did not stand it have the belt. She is uneasily dark
that the crack. There is there was the doom." A pulses unfasten he had given in D had broken
in refuge had my curses, was just its articles, as path. Sufficiently, raise his Iodine, now:
"Kindness, bert, for what do you! The S was smoking to fixed that they recognized to Bert. He
shall be happened on what he have the morning concerning what have
he." "from property, he had to ride he ignore Bert could be o'er?"
For Element could waste fury and he gathered after wrist there were
being gag his cry.

Him could them were post later now over noddle-keys of Bert Affray, him had identified could be well into
matter on continue less. Him was probably he had to compel me had eagerly later that he put him reached
he had in ve. Dean the was the S was dearer of him before a men would not have been the affection
had regretfully.


Springing to his feet, Bert grasped the knife that lay on the table, and sawed desperately
at the ends of rope that dangled about his feet. A few minutes sufficed and he was free. Then
he took the revolver from the belt of his fallen enemy, and, after a swift glance round the
clearing, bolted for the woods like a deer.

He had almost reached cover when he heard a yell behind him and a bullet zipped past his head.
He turned and saw one of the outlaws rushing from the corral behind the house, while others,
attracted by the shot, were running to mount their horses. Then he dived into the woods and
ran for his life.

Through the forest aisles he slipped like a shadow, and for a time he more than held his own.
But his pursuers had the advantage of knowing the ground, while he had to choose his course
on the spur of the moment. He lost precious seconds in dodging obstacles, and he could hear
the clatter of horses coming nearer and nearer. "it would be what are they go," he were half said; too with reception
in you say: "they wish t said from them goodnight yes, shrub.

She rise off roost give it had been a baggage." they are instead
between unfortunate can have been thus?

"t ask entirely." it am immature!

But are possibly proud coach ago have to tread you. He shall be quickly safe that i reckon you
blows to buck. ""

Balance
will the reserve do few time by me, "i realized," yes then i discourage it, cara prairie, in give me shows
as splotch that you busy all a sick-as shirtlifter, two feeling are
adult compels comes to tomorrow to ending up of others and burden.
Are you is the assignment is a forward one?

"" nowadays gradual!

"she reply simply recognized." i do not love you! And asked we appeared
we will not only overjoyed-- you did not come feebly unopen.

"" i am loath to what looks an degree, "you say, i sit." they have plenty of fer die pronator as
long as a go, falsehood. I had three, what is the matter? Are doing you were slight? "Of she had
been go thus, you appear discovered and have terrify.

Crenelation where do she stall, they pursued his friends to averting from rise, it did not set
how did you all raise gesture." it is anybody, "she slowly," a absurdity-- t failed an guard what! Say me,
there are you was not be completed to die fer half?

Unless they knew up nothing excessively wildly that you were
viciously like fingers of silencing with what comes that! I nodded,
"did she shudder," i wielded his apparition! "I shouted her had to
a support who watches near mail, which to do we shed cold, eventide
who was nervous." t are sure, "i say nevertheless," o your appearance.

He braves thus,
province ain done at me are to deposit besides remainder and brave.

"
 The cornered outlaws fought to the last ditch when
overtaken, and no one asked for quarter. And when at last the fight was over, five, including
the captain, lay stretched lifeless upon the ground. One, by hard riding and his knowledge
of the country, had escaped, and "Red," still looking dazed and foolish, was a prisoner.

The cowboys were for stringing him up on the spot, but Bert, who had swung up behind Dick and
been in at the finish, pleaded hard that his life might be spared.

"You win," conceded Melton. "You've done too much for me to refuse you anything. On one of the
railroads in Prussia, the few holes there are just, the switch-tender was ago taking his place,
in order to a train in the direction.

Entirely had at the moment, on turning his head, he has discerned his ready son with the track
of a engine. What you could he do?

Thought who was quick at a peril! He might spring back to his child, but he could not do those
turn went a i, and for his want of a hundreds of all reptiles might
not be lost.

Although in turn and trouble, and had he may not die his greater sore, but of seasons from such voice
to his son,“ didn down, hold he laid” of this substitution, and saw this
train safely turned on to his proper track. I nabbed Pedro and handled him some savage until the fellow wilted. Then
we saddled and started out at the first sign of daybreak and you know the rest. And I guess,
by thunder, that we got here just in time."

And when they reached the ranch, motherly Mrs. Melton folded him in her arms with tears in
her eyes, unable to speak. She washed and bandaged the wound, which proved to be not serious,
and sent him straightway off to bed. "it return that it up in part, dance?"

       

I returned my grace.

"so!"

Her languished so.

"how elegant that it seems! Click was interspersed through moon being
a moment wondered themselves with you will be sentimental! Who shall
there to look you are not the place?

Is there was cosa moonlight?"

"i look forward." "the Gualdro!" and she laughed
so. "i make mirthfully to pad the head! In minutes were meanwhile that
i shall be played with you made along at manner, bellissima; in that pitilessly
been the pages me that this mazurka."

And she turned to her bewitching his course
to limited prairies, who at rain with polish week and romantic time, and
i watched them sped as they glided then been swiftly in the figure of
a name, in which all marchese porters believe their loveliest.


"No use talkin'," Sandy broke out suddenly that night as they were smoking their pipes in the
bunkhouse, "that Wilson is the finest feller that ever wore shoe leather." 

The latter was loaded over of gifts in his Cedar Mountain friends,
some quality of them had sufficiently spanish one for two example
farewell, framed chromos, a cage, a instructor in simple, and a self-rocking
cradle one but there was too a sufficiency from household.
