"My shoulder blades?" he asked, shifting them painfully. "Beauty has no effect upon uric acid
that I'm aware of," he sighed, contemplating the round pane opposite, through which the sky
and sea showed blue. At the same time he took a little parchment volume from his pocket and
laid it on the table. As it was clear that he invited comment, Helen asked him the name of
it. She got the name; but she got also a disquisition upon the proper method of making roads.
Beginning with the Greeks, who had, he said, many difficulties to contend with, he continued
with the Romans, passed to England and the right method, which speedily became the wrong method,
and wound up with such a fury of denunciation directed against the road-makers of the present
day in general, and the road-makers of Richmond Park in particular, where Mr. Pepper had the
habit of cycling every morning before breakfast, that the spoons fairly jingled against the
coffee cups, and the insides of at least four rolls mounted in a heap beside Mr. Pepper's plate.

"Pebbles!" he concluded, viciously dropping another bread pellet upon the heap. "The roads
of England are mended with pebbles! 'With the first heavy rainfall,' I've told 'em, 'your road
will be a swamp.' Again and again my words have proved true. But d'you suppose they listen
to me when I tell 'em so, when I point out the consequences, the consequences to the public
purse, when I recommend 'em to read Coryphaeus? No, Mrs. Ambrose, you will form no just opinion
of the stupidity of mankind until you have sat upon a Borough Council!" The little man fixed
her with a glance of ferocious energy.

"I have had servants," said Mrs. Ambrose, concentrating her gaze. "At this moment I have a
nurse. She's a good woman as they go, but she's determined to make my children pray. So far,
owing to great care on my part, they think of God as a kind of walrus; but now that my back's
turned--Ridley," she demanded, swinging round upon her husband, "what shall we do if we find
them saying the Lord's Prayer when we get home again?"

Ridley made the sound which is represented by "Tush." But Willoughby, whose discomfort as he
listened was manifested by a slight movement rocking of his body, said awkwardly, "Oh, surely,
Helen, a little religion hurts nobody."

"I would rather my children told lies," she replied, and while Willoughby was reflecting that
his sister-in-law was even more eccentric than he remembered, pushed her chair back and swept
upstairs. In a second they heard her calling back, "Oh, look! We're out at sea!"

They followed her on to the deck. All the smoke and the houses had disappeared, and the ship
was out in a wide space of sea very fresh and clear though pale in the early light. They had
left London sitting on its mud. A very thin line of shadow tapered on the horizon, scarcely
thick enough to stand the burden of Paris, which nevertheless rested upon it. They were free
of roads, free of mankind, and the same exhilaration at their freedom ran through them all.
The ship was making her way steadily through small waves which slapped her and then fizzled
like effervescing water, leaving a little border of bubbles and foam on either side. The colourless
October sky above was thinly clouded as if by the trail of wood-fire smoke, and the air was
wonderfully salt and brisk. Indeed it was too cold to stand still. Mrs. Ambrose drew her arm
within her husband's, and as they moved off it could be seen from the way in which her sloping
cheek turned up to his that she had something private to communicate. They went a few paces
and Rachel saw them kiss.

Down she looked into the depth of the sea. While it was slightly disturbed on the surface by
the passage of the Euphrosyne, beneath it was green and dim, and it grew dimmer and dimmer
until the sand at the bottom was only a pale blur. One could scarcely see the black ribs of
wrecked ships, or the spiral towers made by the burrowings of great eels, or the smooth green-sided
monsters who came by flickering this way and that.

--"And, Rachel, if any one wants me, I'm busy till one," said her father, enforcing his words
as he often did, when he spoke to his daughter, by a smart blow upon the shoulder.

"Until one," he repeated. "And you'll find yourself some employment, eh? Scales, French, a
little German, eh? There's Mr. Pepper who knows more about separable verbs than any man in
Europe, eh?" and he went off laughing. Rachel laughed, too, as indeed she had laughed ever
since she could remember, without thinking it funny, but because she admired her father.

But just as she was turning with a view perhaps to finding some employment, she was intercepted
by a woman who was so broad and so thick that to be intercepted by her was inevitable. The
discreet tentative way in which she moved, together with her sober black dress, showed that
she belonged to the lower orders; nevertheless she took up a rock-like position, looking about
her to see that no gentry were near before she delivered her message, which had reference to
the state of the sheets, and was of the utmost gravity.

"How ever we're to get through this voyage, Miss Rachel, I really can't tell," she began with
a shake of her head. "There's only just sheets enough to go round, and the master's has a rotten
place you could put your fingers through. And the counterpanes. Did you notice the counterpanes?
I thought to myself a poor person would have been ashamed of them. The one I gave Mr. Pepper
was hardly fit to cover a dog. . . . No, Miss Rachel, they could not be mended; they're only
fit for dust sheets. Why, if one sewed one's finger to the bone, one would have one's work
undone the next time they went to the laundry."

Her voice in its indignation wavered as if tears were near.

There was nothing for it but to descend and inspect a large pile of linen heaped upon a table.
Mrs. Chailey handled the sheets as if she knew each by name, character, and constitution. Some
had yellow stains, others had places where the threads made long ladders; but to the ordinary
eye they looked much as sheets usually do look, very chill, white, cold, and irreproachably clean.

Suddenly Mrs. Chailey, turning from the subject of sheets, dismissing them entirely, clenched
her fists on the top of them, and proclaimed, "And you couldn't ask a living creature to sit
where I sit!"

Mrs. Chailey was expected to sit in a cabin which was large enough, but too near the boilers,
so that after five minutes she could hear her heart "go," she complained, putting her hand
above it, which was a state of things that Mrs. Vinrace, Rachel's mother, would never have
dreamt of inflicting--Mrs. Vinrace, who knew every sheet in her house, and expected of every
one the best they could do, but no more.

It was the easiest thing in the world to grant another room, and the problem of sheets simultaneously
and miraculously solved itself, the spots and ladders not being past cure after all, but--

"Lies! Lies! Lies!" exclaimed the mistress indignantly, as she ran up on to the deck. "What's
the use of telling me lies?"

In her anger that a woman of fifty should behave like a child and come cringing to a girl because
she wanted to sit where she had not leave to sit, she did not think of the particular case,
and, unpacking her music, soon forgot all about the old woman and her sheets.

Mrs. Chailey folded her sheets, but her expression testified to flatness within. The world
no longer cared about her, and a ship was not a home. When the lamps were lit yesterday, and
the sailors went tumbling above her head, she had cried; she would cry this evening; she would
cry to-morrow. It was not home. Meanwhile she arranged her ornaments in the room which she
had won too easily. They were strange ornaments to bring on a sea voyage--china pugs, tea-sets
in miniature, cups stamped floridly with the arms of the city of Bristol, hair-pin boxes crusted
with shamrock, antelopes' heads in coloured plaster, together with a multitude of tiny photographs,
representing downright workmen in their Sunday best, and women holding white babies. But there
was one portrait in a gilt frame, for which a nail was needed, and before she sought it Mrs.
Chailey put on her spectacles and read what was written on a slip of paper at the back:

"This picture of her mistress is given to Emma Chailey by Willoughby Vinrace in gratitude for
thirty years of devoted service."

Tears obliterated the words and the head of the nail.

"So long as I can do something for your family," she was saying, as she hammered at it, when
a voice called melodiously in the passage:

"Mrs. Chailey! Mrs. Chailey!"

Chailey instantly tidied her dress, composed her face, and opened the door.

"I'm in a fix," said Mrs. Ambrose, who was flushed and out of breath. "You know what gentlemen
are. The chairs too high--the tables too low--there's six inches between the floor and the
door. What I want's a hammer, an old quilt, and have you such a thing as a kitchen table? Anyhow,
between us"--she now flung open the door of her husband's sitting room, and revealed Ridley
pacing up and down, his forehead all wrinkled, and the collar of his coat turned up.

"It's as though they'd taken pains to torment me!" he cried, stopping dead. "Did I come on
this voyage in order to catch rheumatism and pneumonia? Really one might have credited Vinrace
with more sense. My dear," Helen was on her knees under a table, "you are only making yourself
untidy, and we had much better recognise the fact that we are condemned to six weeks of unspeakable
misery. To come at all was the height of folly, but now that we are here I suppose that I can
face it like a man. My diseases of course will be increased--I feel already worse than I did
yesterday, but we've only ourselves to thank, and the children happily--"

"Move! Move! Move!" cried Helen, chasing him from corner to corner with a chair as though he
were an errant hen. "Out of the way, Ridley, and in half an hour you'll find it ready."

She turned him out of the room, and they could hear him groaning and swearing as he went along
the passage.

"I daresay he isn't very strong," said Mrs. Chailey, looking at Mrs. Ambrose compassionately,
as she helped to shift and carry.

"It's books," sighed Helen, lifting an armful of sad volumes from the floor to the shelf. "Greek
from morning to night. If ever Miss Rachel marries, Chailey, pray that she may marry a man
who doesn't know his ABC."

The preliminary discomforts and harshnesses, which generally make the first days of a sea voyage
so cheerless and trying to the temper, being somehow lived through, the succeeding days passed
pleasantly enough. October was well advanced, but steadily burning with a warmth that made
the early months of the summer appear very young and capricious. Great tracts of the earth
lay now beneath the autumn sun, and the whole of England, from the bald moors to the Cornish
rocks, was lit up from dawn to sunset, and showed in stretches of yellow, green, and purple.
Under that illumination even the roofs of the great towns glittered. In thousands of small
gardens, millions of dark-red flowers were blooming, until the old ladies who had tended them
so carefully came down the paths with their scissors, snipped through their juicy stalks, and
laid them upon cold stone ledges in the village church. Innumerable parties of picnickers coming
home at sunset cried, "Was there ever such a day as this?" "It's you," the young men whispered;
"Oh, it's you," the young women replied. All old people and many sick people were drawn, were
it only for a foot or two, into the open air, and prognosticated pleasant things about the
course of the world. As for the confidences and expressions of love that were heard not only
in cornfields but in lamplit rooms, where the windows opened on the garden, and men with cigars
kissed women with grey hairs, they were not to be counted. Some said that the sky was an emblem
of the life to come. Long-tailed birds clattered and screamed, and crossed from wood to wood,
with golden eyes in their plumage.

But while all this went on by land, very few people thought about the sea. They took it for
granted that the sea was calm; and there was no need, as there is in many houses when the creeper
taps on the bedroom windows, for the couples to murmur before they kiss, "Think of the ships
to-night," or "Thank Heaven, I'm not the man in the lighthouse!" For all they imagined, the
ships when they vanished on the sky-line dissolved, like snow in water. The grown-up view,
indeed, was not much clearer than the view of the little creatures in bathing drawers who were
trotting in to the foam all along the coasts of England, and scooping up buckets full of water.
They saw white sails or tufts of smoke pass across the horizon, and if you had said that these
were waterspouts, or the petals of white sea flowers, they would have agreed.

The people in ships, however, took an equally singular view of England. Not only did it appear
to them to be an island, and a very small island, but it was a shrinking island in which people
were imprisoned. One figured them first swarming about like aimless ants, and almost pressing
each other over the edge; and then, as the ship withdrew, one figured them making a vain clamour,
which, being unheard, either ceased, or rose into a brawl. Finally, when the ship was out of
sight of land, it became plain that the people of England were completely mute. The disease
attacked other parts of the earth; Europe shrank, Asia shrank, Africa and America shrank, until
it seemed doubtful whether the ship would ever run against any of those wrinkled little rocks
again. But, on the other hand, an immense dignity had descended upon her; she was an inhabitant
of the great world, which has so few inhabitants, travelling all day across an empty universe,
with veils drawn before her and behind. She was more lonely than the caravan crossing the desert;
she was infinitely more mysterious, moving by her own power and sustained by her own resources.
The sea might give her death or some unexampled joy, and none would know of it. She was a bride
going forth to her husband, a virgin unknown of men; in her vigor and purity she might be likened
to all beautiful things, for as a ship she had a life of her own.

Indeed if they had not been blessed in their weather, one blue day being bowled up after another,
smooth, round, and flawless. Mrs. Ambrose would have found it very dull. As it was, she had
her embroidery frame set up on deck, with a little table by her side on which lay open a black
volume of philosophy. She chose a thread from the vari-coloured tangle that lay in her lap,
and sewed red into the bark of a tree, or yellow into the river torrent. She was working at
a great design of a tropical river running through a tropical forest, where spotted deer would
eventually browse upon masses of fruit, bananas, oranges, and giant pomegranates, while a troop
of naked natives whirled darts into the air. Between the stitches she looked to one side and
read a sentence about the Reality of Matter, or the Nature of Good. Round her men in blue jerseys
knelt and scrubbed the boards, or leant over the rails and whistled, and not far off Mr. Pepper
sat cutting up roots with a penknife. The rest were occupied in other parts of the ship: Ridley
at his Greek--he had never found quarters more to his liking; Willoughby at his documents,
for he used a voyage to work of arrears of business; and Rachel--Helen, between her sentences
of philosophy, wondered sometimes what Rachel did do with herself? She meant vaguely to go
and see. They had scarcely spoken two words to each other since that first evening; they were
polite when they met, but there had been no confidence of any kind. Rachel seemed to get on
very well with her father--much better, Helen thought, than she ought to--and was as ready
to let Helen alone as Helen was to let her alone.

At that moment Rachel was sitting in her room doing absolutely nothing. When the ship was full
this apartment bore some magnificent title and was the resort of elderly sea-sick ladies who
left the deck to their youngsters. By virtue of the piano, and a mess of books on the floor,
Rachel considered it her room, and there she would sit for hours playing very difficult music,
reading a little German, or a little English when the mood took her, and doing--as at this
moment--absolutely nothing.

The way she had been educated, joined to a fine natural indolence, was of course partly the
reason of it, for she had been educated as the majority of well-to-do girls in the last part
of the nineteenth century were educated. Kindly doctors and gentle old professors had taught
her the rudiments of about ten different branches of knowledge, but they would as soon have
forced her to go through one piece of drudgery thoroughly as they would have told her that
her hands were dirty. The one hour or the two hours weekly passed very pleasantly, partly owing
to the other pupils, partly to the fact that the window looked upon the back of a shop, where
figures appeared against the red windows in winter, partly to the accidents that are bound
to happen when more than two people are in the same room together. But there was no subject
in the world which she knew accurately. Her mind was in the state of an intelligent man's in
the beginning of the reign of Queen Elizabeth; she would believe practically anything she was
told, invent reasons for anything she said. The shape of the earth, the history of the world,
how trains worked, or money was invested, what laws were in force, which people wanted what,
and why they wanted it, the most elementary idea of a system in modern life--none of this had
been imparted to her by any of her professors or mistresses. But this system of education had
one great advantage. It did not teach anything, but it put no obstacle in the way of any real
talent that the pupil might chance to have. Rachel, being musical, was allowed to learn nothing
but music; she became a fanatic about music. All the energies that might have gone into languages,
science, or literature, that might have made her friends, or shown her the world, poured straight
into music. Finding her teachers inadequate, she had practically taught herself. At the age
of twenty-four she knew as much about music as most people do when they are thirty; and could
play as well as nature allowed her to, which, as became daily more obvious, was a really generous
allowance. If this one definite gift was surrounded by dreams and ideas of the most extravagant
and foolish description, no one was any the wiser.

Her education being thus ordinary, her circumstances were no more out of the common. She was
an only child and had never been bullied and laughed at by brothers and sisters. Her mother
having died when she was eleven, two aunts, the sisters of her father, brought her up, and
they lived for the sake of the air in a comfortable house in Richmond. She was of course brought
up with excessive care, which as a child was for her health; as a girl and a young woman was
for what it seems almost crude to call her morals. Until quite lately she had been completely
ignorant that for women such things existed. She groped for knowledge in old books, and found
it in repulsive chunks, but she did not naturally care for books and thus never troubled her
head about the censorship which was exercised first by her aunts, later by her father. Friends
might have told her things, but she had few of her own age,--Richmond being an awkward place
to reach,--and, as it happened, the only girl she knew well was a religious zealot, who in
the fervour of intimacy talked about God, and the best ways of taking up one's cross, a topic
only fitfully interesting to one whose mind reached other stages at other times.

But lying in her chair, with one hand behind her head, the other grasping the knob on the arm,
she was clearly following her thoughts intently. Her education left her abundant time for thinking.
Her eyes were fixed so steadily upon a ball on the rail of the ship that she would have been
startled and annoyed if anything had chanced to obscure it for a second. She had begun her
meditations with a shout of laughter, caused by the following translation from Tristan:

     In shrinking trepidation
       His shame he seems to hide
     While to the king his relation
       He brings the corpse-like Bride.
     Seems it so senseless what I say?

She cried that it did, and threw down the book. Next she had picked up Cowper's Letters, the
classic prescribed by her father which had bored her, so that one sentence chancing to say
something about the smell of broom in his garden, she had thereupon seen the little hall at
Richmond laden with flowers on the day of her mother's funeral, smelling so strong that now
any flower-scent brought back the sickly horrible sensation; and so from one scene she passed,
half-hearing, half-seeing, to another. She saw her Aunt Lucy arranging flowers in the drawing-room.

"Aunt Lucy," she volunteered, "I don't like the smell of broom; it reminds me of funerals."

"Nonsense, Rachel," Aunt Lucy replied; "don't say such foolish things, dear. I always think
it a particularly cheerful plant."

Lying in the hot sun her mind was fixed upon the characters of her aunts, their views, and
the way they lived. Indeed this was a subject that lasted her hundreds of morning walks round
Richmond Park, and blotted out the trees and the people and the deer. Why did they do the things
they did, and what did they feel, and what was it all about? Again she heard Aunt Lucy talking
to Aunt Eleanor. She had been that morning to take up the character of a servant, "And, of
course, at half-past ten in the morning one expects to find the housemaid brushing the stairs."
How odd! How unspeakably odd! But she could not explain to herself why suddenly as her aunt
spoke the whole system in which they lived had appeared before her eyes as something quite
unfamiliar and inexplicable, and themselves as chairs or umbrellas dropped about here and there
without any reason. She could only say with her slight stammer, "Are you f-f-fond of Aunt Eleanor,
Aunt Lucy?" to which her aunt replied, with her nervous hen-like twitter of a laugh, "My dear
child, what questions you do ask!"

"How fond? Very fond!" Rachel pursued.

"I can't say I've ever thought 'how,'" said Miss Vinrace. "If one cares one doesn't think 'how,'
Rachel," which was aimed at the niece who had never yet "come" to her aunts as cordially as
they wished.

"But you know I care for you, don't you, dear, because you're your mother's daughter, if for
no other reason, and there are plenty of other reasons"--and she leant over and kissed her
with some emotion, and the argument was spilt irretrievably about the place like a bucket of milk.

By these means Rachel reached that stage in thinking, if thinking it can be called, when the
eyes are intent upon a ball or a knob and the lips cease to move. Her efforts to come to an
understanding had only hurt her aunt's feelings, and the conclusion must be that it is better
not to try. To feel anything strongly was to create an abyss between oneself and others who
feel strongly perhaps but differently. It was far better to play the piano and forget all the
rest. The conclusion was very welcome. Let these odd men and women--her aunts, the Hunts, Ridley,
Helen, Mr. Pepper, and the rest--be symbols,--featureless but dignified, symbols of age, of
youth, of motherhood, of learning, and beautiful often as people upon the stage are beautiful.
It appeared that nobody ever said a thing they meant, or ever talked of a feeling they felt,
but that was what music was for. Reality dwelling in what one saw and felt, but did not talk
about, one could accept a system in which things went round and round quite satisfactorily
to other people, without often troubling to think about it, except as something superficially
strange. Absorbed by her music she accepted her lot very complacently, blazing into indignation
perhaps once a fortnight, and subsiding as she subsided now. Inextricably mixed in dreamy confusion,
her mind seemed to enter into communion, to be delightfully expanded and combined with the
spirit of the whitish boards on deck, with the spirit of the sea, with the spirit of Beethoven
Op. 112, even with the spirit of poor William Cowper there at Olney. Like a ball of thistledown
it kissed the sea, rose, kissed it again, and thus rising and kissing passed finally out of
sight. The rising and falling of the ball of thistledown was represented by the sudden droop
forward of her own head, and when it passed out of sight she was asleep.

Ten minutes later Mrs. Ambrose opened the door and looked at her. It did not surprise her to
find that this was the way in which Rachel passed her mornings. She glanced round the room
at the piano, at the books, at the general mess. In the first place she considered Rachel aesthetically;
lying unprotected she looked somehow like a victim dropped from the claws of a bird of prey,
but considered as a woman, a young woman of twenty-four, the sight gave rise to reflections.
Mrs. Ambrose stood thinking for at least two minutes. She then smiled, turned noiselessly away
and went, lest the sleeper should waken, and there should be the awkwardness of speech between
them.

Chapter III

Early next morning there was a sound as of chains being drawn roughly overhead; the steady
heart of the Euphrosyne slowly ceased to beat; and Helen, poking her nose above deck, saw a
stationary castle upon a stationary hill. They had dropped anchor in the mouth of the Tagus,
and instead of cleaving new waves perpetually, the same waves kept returning and washing against
the sides of the ship.

As soon as breakfast was done, Willoughby disappeared over the vessel's side, carrying a brown
leather case, shouting over his shoulder that every one was to mind and behave themselves,
for he would be kept in Lisbon doing business until five o'clock that afternoon.

At about that hour he reappeared, carrying his case, professing himself tired, bothered, hungry,
thirsty, cold, and in immediate need of his tea. Rubbing his hands, he told them the adventures
of the day: how he had come upon poor old Jackson combing his moustache before the glass in
the office, little expecting his descent, had put him through such a morning's work as seldom
came his way; then treated him to a lunch of champagne and ortolans; paid a call upon Mrs.
Jackson, who was fatter than ever, poor woman, but asked kindly after Rachel--and O Lord, little
Jackson had confessed to a confounded piece of weakness--well, well, no harm was done, he supposed,
but what was the use of his giving orders if they were promptly disobeyed? He had said distinctly
that he would take no passengers on this trip. Here he began searching in his pockets and eventually
discovered a card, which he planked down on the table before Rachel. On it she read, "Mr. and
Mrs. Richard Dalloway, 23 Browne Street, Mayfair."

"Mr. Richard Dalloway," continued Vinrace, "seems to be a gentleman who thinks that because
he was once a member of Parliament, and his wife's the daughter of a peer, they can have what
they like for the asking. They got round poor little Jackson anyhow. Said they must have passages--produced
a letter from Lord Glenaway, asking me as a personal favour--overruled any objections Jackson
made (I don't believe they came to much), and so there's nothing for it but to submit, I suppose."

But it was evident that for some reason or other Willoughby was quite pleased to submit, although
he made a show of growling.

The truth was that Mr. and Mrs. Dalloway had found themselves stranded in Lisbon. They had
been travelling on the Continent for some weeks, chiefly with a view to broadening Mr. Dalloway's
mind. Unable for a season, by one of the accidents of political life, to serve his country
in Parliament, Mr. Dalloway was doing the best he could to serve it out of Parliament. For
that purpose the Latin countries did very well, although the East, of course, would have done
better.

"Expect to hear of me next in Petersburg or Teheran," he had said, turning to wave farewell
from the steps of the Travellers'. But a disease had broken out in the East, there was cholera
in Russia, and he was heard of, not so romantically, in Lisbon. They had been through France;
he had stopped at manufacturing centres where, producing letters of introduction, he had been
shown over works, and noted facts in a pocket-book. In Spain he and Mrs. Dalloway had mounted
mules, for they wished to understand how the peasants live. Are they ripe for rebellion, for
example? Mrs. Dalloway had then insisted upon a day or two at Madrid with the pictures. Finally
they arrived in Lisbon and spent six days which, in a journal privately issued afterwards,
they described as of "unique interest." Richard had audiences with ministers, and foretold
a crisis at no distant date, "the foundations of government being incurably corrupt. Yet how
blame, etc."; while Clarissa inspected the royal stables, and took several snapshots showing
men now exiled and windows now broken. Among other things she photographed Fielding's grave,
and let loose a small bird which some ruffian had trapped, "because one hates to think of anything
in a cage where English people lie buried," the diary stated. Their tour was thoroughly unconventional,
and followed no meditated plan. The foreign correspondents of the Times decided their route
as much as anything else. Mr. Dalloway wished to look at certain guns, and was of opinion that
the African coast is far more unsettled than people at home were inclined to believe. For these
reasons they wanted a slow inquisitive kind of ship, comfortable, for they were bad sailors,
but not extravagant, which would stop for a day or two at this port and at that, taking in
coal while the Dalloways saw things for themselves. Meanwhile they found themselves stranded
in Lisbon, unable for the moment to lay hands upon the precise vessel they wanted. They heard
of the Euphrosyne, but heard also that she was primarily a cargo boat, and only took passengers
by special arrangement, her business being to carry dry goods to the Amazons, and rubber home
again. "By special arrangement," however, were words of high encouragement to them, for they
came of a class where almost everything was specially arranged, or could be if necessary. On
this occasion all that Richard did was to write a note to Lord Glenaway, the head of the line
which bears his title; to call on poor old Jackson; to represent to him how Mrs. Dalloway was
so-and-so, and he had been something or other else, and what they wanted was such and such
a thing. It was done. They parted with compliments and pleasure on both sides, and here, a
week later, came the boat rowing up to the ship in the dusk with the Dalloways on board of
it; in three minutes they were standing together on the deck of the Euphrosyne. Their arrival,
of course, created some stir, and it was seen by several pairs of eyes that Mrs. Dalloway was
a tall slight woman, her body wrapped in furs, her head in veils, while Mr. Dalloway appeared
to be a middle-sized man of sturdy build, dressed like a sportsman on an autumnal moor. Many
solid leather bags of a rich brown hue soon surrounded them, in addition to which Mr. Dalloway
carried a despatch box, and his wife a dressing-case suggestive of a diamond necklace and bottles
with silver tops.

"It's so like Whistler!" she exclaimed, with a wave towards the shore, as she shook Rachel
by the hand, and Rachel had only time to look at the grey hills on one side of her before Willoughby
introduced Mrs. Chailey, who took the lady to her cabin.

Momentary though it seemed, nevertheless the interruption was upsetting; every one was more
or less put out by it, from Mr. Grice, the steward, to Ridley himself. A few minutes later
Rachel passed the smoking-room, and found Helen moving arm-chairs. She was absorbed in her
arrangements, and on seeing Rachel remarked confidentially:

"If one can give men a room to themselves where they will sit, it's all to the good. Arm-chairs
are the important things--" She began wheeling them about. "Now, does it still look like a
bar at a railway station?"

She whipped a plush cover off a table. The appearance of the place was marvellously improved.

Again, the arrival of the strangers made it obvious to Rachel, as the hour of dinner approached,
that she must change her dress; and the ringing of the great bell found her sitting on the
edge of her berth in such a position that the little glass above the washstand reflected her
head and shoulders. In the glass she wore an expression of tense melancholy, for she had come
to the depressing conclusion, since the arrival of the Dalloways, that her face was not the
face she wanted, and in all probability never would be.

However, punctuality had been impressed on her, and whatever face she had, she must go in to
dinner.

These few minutes had been used by Willoughby in sketching to the Dalloways the people they
were to meet, and checking them upon his fingers.

"There's my brother-in-law, Ambrose, the scholar (I daresay you've heard his name), his wife,
my old friend Pepper, a very quiet fellow, but knows everything, I'm told. And that's all.
We're a very small party. I'm dropping them on the coast."

Mrs. Dalloway, with her head a little on one side, did her best to recollect Ambrose--was it
a surname?--but failed. She was made slightly uneasy by what she had heard. She knew that scholars
married any one--girls they met in farms on reading parties; or little suburban women who said
disagreeably, "Of course I know it's my husband you want; not me."

But Helen came in at that point, and Mrs. Dalloway saw with relief that though slightly eccentric
in appearance, she was not untidy, held herself well, and her voice had restraint in it, which
she held to be the sign of a lady. Mr. Pepper had not troubled to change his neat ugly suit.

"But after all," Clarissa thought to herself as she followed Vinrace in to dinner, "every one's
interesting really."

When seated at the table she had some need of that assurance, chiefly because of Ridley, who
came in late, looked decidedly unkempt, and took to his soup in profound gloom.

An imperceptible signal passed between husband and wife, meaning that they grasped the situation
and would stand by each other loyally. With scarcely a pause Mrs. Dalloway turned to Willoughby
and began:

"What I find so tiresome about the sea is that there are no flowers in it. Imagine fields of
hollyhocks and violets in mid-ocean! How divine!"

"But somewhat dangerous to navigation," boomed Richard, in the bass, like the bassoon to the
flourish of his wife's violin. "Why, weeds can be bad enough, can't they, Vinrace? I remember
crossing in the Mauretania once, and saying to the Captain--Richards--did you know him?--'Now
tell me what perils you really dread most for your ship, Captain Richards?' expecting him to
say icebergs, or derelicts, or fog, or something of that sort. Not a bit of it. I've always
remembered his answer. 'Sedgius aquatici,' he said, which I take to be a kind of duck-weed."

Mr. Pepper looked up sharply, and was about to put a question when Willoughby continued:

"They've an awful time of it--those captains! Three thousand souls on board!"

"Yes, indeed," said Clarissa. She turned to Helen with an air of profundity. "I'm convinced
people are wrong when they say it's work that wears one; it's responsibility. That's why one
pays one's cook more than one's housemaid, I suppose."

"According to that, one ought to pay one's nurse double; but one doesn't," said Helen.

"No; but think what a joy to have to do with babies, instead of saucepans!" said Mrs. Dalloway,
looking with more interest at Helen, a probable mother.

"I'd much rather be a cook than a nurse," said Helen. "Nothing would induce me to take charge
of children."

"Mothers always exaggerate," said Ridley. "A well-bred child is no responsibility. I've travelled
all over Europe with mine. You just wrap 'em up warm and put 'em in the rack."

Helen laughed at that. Mrs. Dalloway exclaimed, looking at Ridley:

"How like a father! My husband's just the same. And then one talks of the equality of the sexes!"

"Does one?" said Mr. Pepper.

"Oh, some do!" cried Clarissa. "My husband had to pass an irate lady every afternoon last session
who said nothing else, I imagine."

"She sat outside the house; it was very awkward," said Dalloway. "At last I plucked up courage
and said to her, 'My good creature, you're only in the way where you are. You're hindering
me, and you're doing no good to yourself.'"

"And then she caught him by the coat, and would have scratched his eyes out--" Mrs. Dalloway
put in.

"Pooh--that's been exaggerated," said Richard. "No, I pity them, I confess. The discomfort
of sitting on those steps must be awful."

"Serve them right," said Willoughby curtly.

"Oh, I'm entirely with you there," said Dalloway. "Nobody can condemn the utter folly and futility
of such behaviour more than I do; and as for the whole agitation, well! may I be in my grave
before a woman has the right to vote in England! That's all I say."

The solemnity of her husband's assertion made Clarissa grave.

"It's unthinkable," she said. "Don't tell me you're a suffragist?" she turned to Ridley.

"I don't care a fig one way or t'other," said Ambrose. "If any creature is so deluded as to
think that a vote does him or her any good, let him have it. He'll soon learn better."

"You're not a politician, I see," she smiled.

"Goodness, no," said Ridley.

"I'm afraid your husband won't approve of me," said Dalloway aside, to Mrs. Ambrose. She suddenly
recollected that he had been in Parliament.

"Don't you ever find it rather dull?" she asked, not knowing exactly what to say.

Richard spread his hands before him, as if inscriptions were to be read in the palms of them.

"If you ask me whether I ever find it rather dull," he said, "I am bound to say yes; on the
other hand, if you ask me what career do you consider on the whole, taking the good with the
bad, the most enjoyable and enviable, not to speak of its more serious side, of all careers,
for a man, I am bound to say, 'The Politician's.'"

"The Bar or politics, I agree," said Willoughby. "You get more run for your money."

"All one's faculties have their play," said Richard. "I may be treading on dangerous ground;
but what I feel about poets and artists in general is this: on your own lines, you can't be
beaten--granted; but off your own lines--puff--one has to make allowances. Now, I shouldn't
like to think that any one had to make allowances for me."

"I don't quite agree, Richard," said Mrs. Dalloway. "Think of Shelley. I feel that there's
almost everything one wants in 'Adonais.'"

"Read 'Adonais' by all means," Richard conceded. "But whenever I hear of Shelley I repeat to
myself the words of Matthew Arnold, 'What a set! What a set!'"

This roused Ridley's attention. "Matthew Arnold? A detestable prig!" he snapped.

"A prig--granted," said Richard; "but, I think a man of the world. That's where my point comes
in. We politicians doubtless seem to you" (he grasped somehow that Helen was the representative
of the arts) "a gross commonplace set of people; but we see both sides; we may be clumsy, but
we do our best to get a grasp of things. Now your artists find things in a mess, shrug their
shoulders, turn aside to their visions--which I grant may be very beautiful--and leave things
in a mess. Now that seems to me evading one's responsibilities. Besides, we aren't all born
with the artistic faculty."

"It's dreadful," said Mrs. Dalloway, who, while her husband spoke, had been thinking. "When
I'm with artists I feel so intensely the delights of shutting oneself up in a little world
of one's own, with pictures and music and everything beautiful, and then I go out into the
streets and the first child I meet with its poor, hungry, dirty little face makes me turn round
and say, 'No, I can't shut myself up--I won't live in a world of my own. I should like to stop
all the painting and writing and music until this kind of thing exists no longer.' Don't you
feel," she wound up, addressing Helen, "that life's a perpetual conflict?" Helen considered
for a moment. "No," she said. "I don't think I do."

There was a pause, which was decidedly uncomfortable. Mrs. Dalloway then gave a little shiver,
and asked whether she might have her fur cloak brought to her. As she adjusted the soft brown
fur about her neck a fresh topic struck her.

"I own," she said, "that I shall never forget the Antigone. I saw it at Cambridge years ago,
and it's haunted me ever since. Don't you think it's quite the most modern thing you ever saw?"
she asked Ridley. "It seemed to me I'd known twenty Clytemnestras. Old Lady Ditchling for one.
I don't know a word of Greek, but I could listen to it for ever--"

Here Mr. Pepper struck up:

     {Some editions of the work contain a brief passage
     from Antigone, in Greek, at this spot.  ed.}

Mrs. Dalloway looked at him with compressed lips.

"I'd give ten years of my life to know Greek," she said, when he had done.

"I could teach you the alphabet in half an hour," said Ridley, "and you'd read Homer in a month.
I should think it an honour to instruct you."

Helen, engaged with Mr. Dalloway and the habit, now fallen into decline, of quoting Greek in
the House of Commons, noted, in the great commonplace book that lies open beside us as we talk,
the fact that all men, even men like Ridley, really prefer women to be fashionable.

Clarissa exclaimed that she could think of nothing more delightful. For an instant she saw
herself in her drawing-room in Browne Street with a Plato open on her knees--Plato in the original
Greek. She could not help believing that a real scholar, if specially interested, could slip
Greek into her head with scarcely any trouble.

Ridley engaged her to come to-morrow.

"If only your ship is going to treat us kindly!" she exclaimed, drawing Willoughby into play.
For the sake of guests, and these were distinguished, Willoughby was ready with a bow of his
head to vouch for the good behaviour even of the waves.

"I'm dreadfully bad; and my husband's not very good," sighed Clarissa.

"I am never sick," Richard explained. "At least, I have only been actually sick once," he corrected
himself. "That was crossing the Channel. But a choppy sea, I confess, or still worse, a swell,
makes me distinctly uncomfortable. The great thing is never to miss a meal. You look at the
food, and you say, 'I can't'; you take a mouthful, and Lord knows how you're going to swallow
it; but persevere, and you often settle the attack for good. My wife's a coward."

They were pushing back their chairs. The ladies were hesitating at the doorway.

"I'd better show the way," said Helen, advancing.

Rachel followed. She had taken no part in the talk; no one had spoken to her; but she had listened
to every word that was said. She had looked from Mrs. Dalloway to Mr. Dalloway, and from Mr.
Dalloway back again. Clarissa, indeed, was a fascinating spectacle. She wore a white dress
and a long glittering necklace. What with her clothes, and her arch delicate face, which showed
exquisitely pink beneath hair turning grey, she was astonishingly like an eighteenth-century
masterpiece--a Reynolds or a Romney. She made Helen and the others look coarse and slovenly
beside her. Sitting lightly upright she seemed to be dealing with the world as she chose; the
enormous solid globe spun round this way and that beneath her fingers. And her husband! Mr.
Dalloway rolling that rich deliberate voice was even more impressive. He seemed to come from
the humming oily centre of the machine where the polished rods are sliding, and the pistons
thumping; he grasped things so firmly but so loosely; he made the others appear like old maids
cheapening remnants. Rachel followed in the wake of the matrons, as if in a trance; a curious
scent of violets came back from Mrs. Dalloway, mingling with the soft rustling of her skirts,
and the tinkling of her chains. As she followed, Rachel thought with supreme self-abasement,
taking in the whole course of her life and the lives of all her friends, "She said we lived
in a world of our own. It's true. We're perfectly absurd."

"We sit in here," said Helen, opening the door of the saloon.

"You play?" said Mrs. Dalloway to Mrs. Ambrose, taking up the score of Tristan which lay on
the table.

"My niece does," said Helen, laying her hand on Rachel's shoulder.

"Oh, how I envy you!" Clarissa addressed Rachel for the first time. "D'you remember this? Isn't
it divine?" She played a bar or two with ringed fingers upon the page.

"And then Tristan goes like this, and Isolde--oh!--it's all too thrilling! Have you been to
Bayreuth?"

"No, I haven't," said Rachel. `"Then that's still to come. I shall never forget my first Parsifal--a
grilling August day, and those fat old German women, come in their stuffy high frocks, and
then the dark theatre, and the music beginning, and one couldn't help sobbing. A kind man went
and fetched me water, I remember; and I could only cry on his shoulder! It caught me here"
(she touched her throat). "It's like nothing else in the world! But where's your piano?" "It's
in another room," Rachel explained.

"But you will play to us?" Clarissa entreated. "I can't imagine anything nicer than to sit
out in the moonlight and listen to music--only that sounds too like a schoolgirl! You know,"
she said, turning to Helen, "I don't think music's altogether good for people--I'm afraid not."

"Too great a strain?" asked Helen.

"Too emotional, somehow," said Clarissa. "One notices it at once when a boy or girl takes up
music as a profession. Sir William Broadley told me just the same thing. Don't you hate the
kind of attitudes people go into over Wagner--like this--" She cast her eyes to the ceiling,
clasped her hands, and assumed a look of intensity. "It really doesn't mean that they appreciate
him; in fact, I always think it's the other way round. The people who really care about an
art are always the least affected. D'you know Henry Philips, the painter?" she asked.

"I have seen him," said Helen.

"To look at, one might think he was a successful stockbroker, and not one of the greatest painters
of the age. That's what I like."

"There are a great many successful stockbrokers, if you like looking at them," said Helen.

Rachel wished vehemently that her aunt would not be so perverse.

"When you see a musician with long hair, don't you know instinctively that he's bad?" Clarissa
asked, turning to Rachel. "Watts and Joachim--they looked just like you and me."

"And how much nicer they'd have looked with curls!" said Helen. "The question is, are you going
to aim at beauty or are you not?"

"Cleanliness!" said Clarissa, "I do want a man to look clean!"

"By cleanliness you really mean well-cut clothes," said Helen.

"There's something one knows a gentleman by," said Clarissa, "but one can't say what it is."

"Take my husband now, does he look like a gentleman?"

The question seemed to Clarissa in extraordinarily bad taste. "One of the things that can't
be said," she would have put it. She could find no answer, but a laugh.

"Well, anyhow," she said, turning to Rachel, "I shall insist upon your playing to me to-morrow."

There was that in her manner that made Rachel love her.

Mrs. Dalloway hid a tiny yawn, a mere dilation of the nostrils.

"D'you know," she said, "I'm extraordinarily sleepy. It's the sea air. I think I shall escape."

A man's voice, which she took to be that of Mr. Pepper, strident in discussion, and advancing
upon the saloon, gave her the alarm.

"Good-night--good-night!" she said. "Oh, I know my way--do pray for calm! Good-night!"

Her yawn must have been the image of a yawn. Instead of letting her mouth droop, dropping all
her clothes in a bunch as though they depended on one string, and stretching her limbs to the
utmost end of her berth, she merely changed her dress for a dressing-gown, with innumerable
frills, and wrapping her feet in a rug, sat down with a writing-pad on her knee. Already this
cramped little cabin was the dressing room of a lady of quality. There were bottles containing
liquids; there were trays, boxes, brushes, pins. Evidently not an inch of her person lacked
its proper instrument. The scent which had intoxicated Rachel pervaded the air. Thus established,
Mrs. Dalloway began to write. A pen in her hands became a thing one caressed paper with, and
she might have been stroking and tickling a kitten as she wrote:

Picture us, my dear, afloat in the very oddest ship you can imagine. It's not the ship, so
much as the people. One does come across queer sorts as one travels. I must say I find it hugely
amusing. There's the manager of the line--called Vinrace--a nice big Englishman, doesn't say
much--you know the sort. As for the rest--they might have come trailing out of an old number
of Punch. They're like people playing croquet in the 'sixties. How long they've all been shut
up in this ship I don't know--years and years I should say--but one feels as though one had
boarded a little separate world, and they'd never been on shore, or done ordinary things in
their lives. It's what I've always said about literary people--they're far the hardest of any
to get on with. The worst of it is, these people--a man and his wife and a niece--might have
been, one feels, just like everybody else, if they hadn't got swallowed up by Oxford or Cambridge
or some such place, and been made cranks of. The man's really delightful (if he'd cut his nails),
and the woman has quite a fine face, only she dresses, of course, in a potato sack, and wears
her hair like a Liberty shopgirl's. They talk about art, and think us such poops for dressing
in the evening. However, I can't help that; I'd rather die than come in to dinner without changing--wouldn't
you? It matters ever so much more than the soup. (It's odd how things like that do matter so
much more than what's generally supposed to matter. I'd rather have my head cut off than wear
flannel next the skin.) Then there's a nice shy girl--poor thing--I wish one could rake her
out before it's too late. She has quite nice eyes and hair, only, of course, she'll get funny
too. We ought to start a society for broadening the minds of the young--much more useful than
missionaries, Hester! Oh, I'd forgotten there's a dreadful little thing called Pepper. He's
just like his name. He's indescribably insignificant, and rather queer in his temper, poor
dear. It's like sitting down to dinner with an ill-conditioned fox-terrier, only one can't
comb him out, and sprinkle him with powder, as one would one's dog. It's a pity, sometimes,
one can't treat people like dogs! The great comfort is that we're away from newspapers, so
that Richard will have a real holiday this time. Spain wasn't a holiday. . . .

"You coward!" said Richard, almost filling the room with his sturdy figure.

"I did my duty at dinner!" cried Clarissa.

"You've let yourself in for the Greek alphabet, anyhow."

"Oh, my dear! Who is Ambrose?"

"I gather that he was a Cambridge don; lives in London now, and edits classics."

"Did you ever see such a set of cranks? The woman asked me if I thought her husband looked
like a gentleman!"

"It was hard to keep the ball rolling at dinner, certainly," said Richard. "Why is it that
the women, in that class, are so much queerer than the men?"

"They're not half bad-looking, really--only--they're so odd!"

They both laughed, thinking of the same things, so that there was no need to compare their
impressions.

"I see I shall have quite a lot to say to Vinrace," said Richard. "He knows Sutton and all
that set. He can tell me a good deal about the conditions of ship-building in the North."

"Oh, I'm glad. The men always are so much better than the women."

"One always has something to say to a man certainly," said Richard. "But I've no doubt you'll
chatter away fast enough about the babies, Clarice."

"Has she got children? She doesn't look like it somehow."

"Two. A boy and girl."

A pang of envy shot through Mrs. Dalloway's heart.

"We must have a son, Dick," she said.

"Good Lord, what opportunities there are now for young men!" said Dalloway, for his talk had
set him thinking. "I don't suppose there's been so good an opening since the days of Pitt."

"And it's yours!" said Clarissa.

"To be a leader of men," Richard soliloquised. "It's a fine career. My God--what a career!"

The chest slowly curved beneath his waistcoat.

"D'you know, Dick, I can't help thinking of England," said his wife meditatively, leaning her
head against his chest. "Being on this ship seems to make it so much more vivid--what it really
means to be English. One thinks of all we've done, and our navies, and the people in India
and Africa, and how we've gone on century after century, sending out boys from little country
villages--and of men like you, Dick, and it makes one feel as if one couldn't bear not to be
English! Think of the light burning over the House, Dick! When I stood on deck just now I seemed
to see it. It's what one means by London."

"It's the continuity," said Richard sententiously. A vision of English history, King following
King, Prime Minister Prime Minister, and Law Law had come over him while his wife spoke. He
ran his mind along the line of conservative policy, which went steadily from Lord Salisbury
to Alfred, and gradually enclosed, as though it were a lasso that opened and caught things,
enormous chunks of the habitable globe.

"It's taken a long time, but we've pretty nearly done it," he said; "it remains to consolidate."

"And these people don't see it!" Clarissa exclaimed.

"It takes all sorts to make a world," said her husband. "There would never be a government
if there weren't an opposition."

"Dick, you're better than I am," said Clarissa. "You see round, where I only see there." She
pressed a point on the back of his hand.

"That's my business, as I tried to explain at dinner."

"What I like about you, Dick," she continued, "is that you're always the same, and I'm a creature
of moods."

"You're a pretty creature, anyhow," he said, gazing at her with deeper eyes.

"You think so, do you? Then kiss me."

He kissed her passionately, so that her half-written letter slid to the ground. Picking it
up, he read it without asking leave.

"Where's your pen?" he said; and added in his little masculine hand:

R.D. loquitur: Clarice has omitted to tell you that she looked exceedingly pretty at dinner,
and made a conquest by which she has bound herself to learn the Greek alphabet. I will take
this occasion of adding that we are both enjoying ourselves in these outlandish parts, and
only wish for the presence of our friends (yourself and John, to wit) to make the trip perfectly
enjoyable as it promises to be instructive. . . .

Voices were heard at the end of the corridor. Mrs. Ambrose was speaking low; William Pepper
was remarking in his definite and rather acid voice, "That is the type of lady with whom I
find myself distinctly out of sympathy. She--"

But neither Richard nor Clarissa profited by the verdict, for directly it seemed likely that
they would overhear, Richard crackled a sheet of paper.

"I often wonder," Clarissa mused in bed, over the little white volume of Pascal which went
with her everywhere, "whether it is really good for a woman to live with a man who is morally
her superior, as Richard is mine. It makes one so dependent. I suppose I feel for him what
my mother and women of her generation felt for Christ. It just shows that one can't do without
something." She then fell into a sleep, which was as usual extremely sound and refreshing,
but visited by fantastic dreams of great Greek letters stalking round the room, when she woke
up and laughed to herself, remembering where she was and that the Greek letters were real people,
lying asleep not many yards away. Then, thinking of the black sea outside tossing beneath the
moon, she shuddered, and thought of her husband and the others as companions on the voyage.
The dreams were not confined to her indeed, but went from one brain to another. They all dreamt
of each other that night, as was natural, considering how thin the partitions were between
them, and how strangely they had been lifted off the earth to sit next each other in mid-ocean,
and see every detail of each other's faces, and hear whatever they chanced to say.

Chapter IV

Next morning Clarissa was up before anyone else. She dressed, and was out on deck, breathing
the fresh air of a calm morning, and, making the circuit of the ship for the second time, she
ran straight into the lean person of Mr. Grice, the steward. She apologised, and at the same
time asked him to enlighten her: what were those shiny brass stands for, half glass on the
top? She had been wondering, and could not guess. When he had done explaining, she cried enthusiastically:

"I do think that to be a sailor must be the finest thing in the world!"

"And what d'you know about it?" said Mr. Grice, kindling in a strange manner. "Pardon me. What
does any man or woman brought up in England know about the sea? They profess to know; but they
don't."

The bitterness with which he spoke was ominous of what was to come. He led her off to his own
quarters, and, sitting on the edge of a brass-bound table, looking uncommonly like a sea-gull,
with her white tapering body and thin alert face, Mrs. Dalloway had to listen to the tirade
of a fanatical man. Did she realise, to begin with, what a very small part of the world the
land was? How peaceful, how beautiful, how benignant in comparison the sea? The deep waters
could sustain Europe unaided if every earthly animal died of the plague to-morrow. Mr. Grice
recalled dreadful sights which he had seen in the richest city of the world--men and women
standing in line hour after hour to receive a mug of greasy soup. "And I thought of the good
flesh down here waiting and asking to be caught. I'm not exactly a Protestant, and I'm not
a Catholic, but I could almost pray for the days of popery to come again--because of the fasts."

As he talked he kept opening drawers and moving little glass jars. Here were the treasures
which the great ocean had bestowed upon him--pale fish in greenish liquids, blobs of jelly
with streaming tresses, fish with lights in their heads, they lived so deep.

"They have swum about among bones," Clarissa sighed.

"You're thinking of Shakespeare," said Mr. Grice, and taking down a copy from a shelf well
lined with books, recited in an emphatic nasal voice:

"Full fathom five thy father lies,

"A grand fellow, Shakespeare," he said, replacing the volume.

Clarissa was so glad to hear him say so.

"Which is your favourite play? I wonder if it's the same as mine?"

"Henry the Fifth," said Mr. Grice.

"Joy!" cried Clarissa. "It is!"

Hamlet was what you might call too introspective for Mr. Grice, the sonnets too passionate;
Henry the Fifth was to him the model of an English gentleman. But his favourite reading was
Huxley, Herbert Spencer, and Henry George; while Emerson and Thomas Hardy he read for relaxation.
He was giving Mrs. Dalloway his views upon the present state of England when the breakfast
bell rung so imperiously that she had to tear herself away, promising to come back and be shown
his sea-weeds.

The party, which had seemed so odd to her the night before, was already gathered round the
table, still under the influence of sleep, and therefore uncommunicative, but her entrance
sent a little flutter like a breath of air through them all.

"I've had the most interesting talk of my life!" she exclaimed, taking her seat beside Willoughby.
"D'you realise that one of your men is a philosopher and a poet?"

"A very interesting fellow--that's what I always say," said Willoughby, distinguishing Mr.
Grice. "Though Rachel finds him a bore."

"He's a bore when he talks about currents," said Rachel. Her eyes were full of sleep, but Mrs.
Dalloway still seemed to her wonderful.

"I've never met a bore yet!" said Clarissa.

"And I should say the world was full of them!" exclaimed Helen. But her beauty, which was radiant
in the morning light, took the contrariness from her words.

"I agree that it's the worst one can possibly say of any one," said Clarissa. "How much rather
one would be a murderer than a bore!" she added, with her usual air of saying something profound.
"One can fancy liking a murderer. It's the same with dogs. Some dogs are awful bores, poor dears."

It happened that Richard was sitting next to Rachel. She was curiously conscious of his presence
and appearance--his well-cut clothes, his crackling shirt-front, his cuffs with blue rings
round them, and the square-tipped, very clean fingers with the red stone on the little finger
of the left hand.

"We had a dog who was a bore and knew it," he said, addressing her in cool, easy tones. "He
was a Skye terrier, one of those long chaps, with little feet poking out from their hair like--like
caterpillars--no, like sofas I should say. Well, we had another dog at the same time, a black
brisk animal--a Schipperke, I think, you call them. You can't imagine a greater contrast. The
Skye so slow and deliberate, looking up at you like some old gentleman in the club, as much
as to say, 'You don't really mean it, do you?' and the Schipperke as quick as a knife. I liked
the Skye best, I must confess. There was something pathetic about him."

The story seemed to have no climax.

"What happened to him?" Rachel asked.

"That's a very sad story," said Richard, lowering his voice and peeling an apple. "He followed
my wife in the car one day and got run over by a brute of a cyclist."

"Was he killed?" asked Rachel.

But Clarissa at her end of the table had overheard.

"Don't talk of it!" she cried. "It's a thing I can't bear to think of to this day."

Surely the tears stood in her eyes?

"That's the painful thing about pets," said Mr. Dalloway; "they die. The first sorrow I can
remember was for the death of a dormouse. I regret to say that I sat upon it. Still, that didn't
make one any the less sorry. Here lies the duck that Samuel Johnson sat on, eh? I was big for
my age."

"Then we had canaries," he continued, "a pair of ring-doves, a lemur, and at one time a martin."

"Did you live in the country?" Rachel asked him.

"We lived in the country for six months of the year. When I say 'we' I mean four sisters, a
brother, and myself. There's nothing like coming of a large family. Sisters particularly are
delightful."

"Dick, you were horribly spoilt!" cried Clarissa across the table.

"No, no. Appreciated," said Richard.

Rachel had other questions on the tip of her tongue; or rather one enormous question, which
she did not in the least know how to put into words. The talk appeared too airy to admit of it.

"Please tell me--everything." That was what she wanted to say. He had drawn apart one little
chink and showed astonishing treasures. It seemed to her incredible that a man like that should
be willing to talk to her. He had sisters and pets, and once lived in the country. She stirred
her tea round and round; the bubbles which swam and clustered in the cup seemed to her like
the union of their minds.

The talk meanwhile raced past her, and when Richard suddenly stated in a jocular tone of voice,
"I'm sure Miss Vinrace, now, has secret leanings towards Catholicism," she had no idea what
to answer, and Helen could not help laughing at the start she gave.

However, breakfast was over and Mrs. Dalloway was rising. "I always think religion's like collecting
beetles," she said, summing up the discussion as she went up the stairs with Helen. "One person
has a passion for black beetles; another hasn't; it's no good arguing about it. What's your
black beetle now?"

"I suppose it's my children," said Helen.

"Ah--that's different," Clarissa breathed. "Do tell me. You have a boy, haven't you? Isn't
it detestable, leaving them?"

It was as though a blue shadow had fallen across a pool. Their eyes became deeper, and their
voices more cordial. Instead of joining them as they began to pace the deck, Rachel was indignant
with the prosperous matrons, who made her feel outside their world and motherless, and turning
back, she left them abruptly. She slammed the door of her room, and pulled out her music. It
was all old music--Bach and Beethoven, Mozart and Purcell--the pages yellow, the engraving
rough to the finger. In three minutes she was deep in a very difficult, very classical fugue
in A, and over her face came a queer remote impersonal expression of complete absorption and
anxious satisfaction. Now she stumbled; now she faltered and had to play the same bar twice
over; but an invisible line seemed to string the notes together, from which rose a shape, a
building. She was so far absorbed in this work, for it was really difficult to find how all
these sounds should stand together, and drew upon the whole of her faculties, that she never
heard a knock at the door. It was burst impulsively open, and Mrs. Dalloway stood in the room
leaving the door open, so that a strip of the white deck and of the blue sea appeared through
the opening. The shape of the Bach fugue crashed to the ground.

"Don't let me interrupt," Clarissa implored. "I heard you playing, and I couldn't resist. I
adore Bach!"

Rachel flushed and fumbled her fingers in her lap. She stood up awkwardly.

"It's too difficult," she said.

"But you were playing quite splendidly! I ought to have stayed outside."

"No," said Rachel.

She slid Cowper's Letters and Wuthering Heights out of the arm-chair, so that Clarissa was
invited to sit there.

"What a dear little room!" she said, looking round. "Oh, Cowper's Letters! I've never read
them. Are they nice?"

"Rather dull," said Rachel.

"He wrote awfully well, didn't he?" said Clarissa; "--if one likes that kind of thing--finished
his sentences and all that. Wuthering Heights! Ah--that's more in my line. I really couldn't
exist without the Brontes! Don't you love them? Still, on the whole, I'd rather live without
them than without Jane Austen."

Lightly and at random though she spoke, her manner conveyed an extraordinary degree of sympathy
and desire to befriend.

"Jane Austen? I don't like Jane Austen," said Rachel.

"You monster!" Clarissa exclaimed. "I can only just forgive you. Tell me why?"

"She's so--so--well, so like a tight plait," Rachel floundered. "Ah--I see what you mean. But
I don't agree. And you won't when you're older. At your age I only liked Shelley. I can remember
sobbing over him in the garden.

     He has outsoared the shadow of our night,
     Envy and calumny and hate and pain-- you remember?

     Can touch him not and torture not again
     From the contagion of the world's slow stain.

How divine!--and yet what nonsense!" She looked lightly round the room. "I always think it's
living, not dying, that counts. I really respect some snuffy old stockbroker who's gone on
adding up column after column all his days, and trotting back to his villa at Brixton with
some old pug dog he worships, and a dreary little wife sitting at the end of the table, and
going off to Margate for a fortnight--I assure you I know heaps like that--well, they seem
to me really nobler than poets whom every one worships, just because they're geniuses and die
young. But I don't expect you to agree with me!"

She pressed Rachel's shoulder.

"Um-m-m--" she went on quoting--

Unrest which men miscall delight--

"When you're my age you'll see that the world is crammed with delightful things. I think young
people make such a mistake about that--not letting themselves be happy. I sometimes think that
happiness is the only thing that counts. I don't know you well enough to say, but I should
guess you might be a little inclined to--when one's young and attractive--I'm going to say
it!--everything's at one's feet." She glanced round as much as to say, "not only a few stuffy
books and Bach."

"I long to ask questions," she continued. "You interest me so much. If I'm impertinent, you
must just box my ears."

"And I--I want to ask questions," said Rachel with such earnestness that Mrs. Dalloway had
to check her smile.

"D'you mind if we walk?" she said. "The air's so delicious."

She snuffed it like a racehorse as they shut the door and stood on deck.

"Isn't it good to be alive?" she exclaimed, and drew Rachel's arm within hers.

"Look, look! How exquisite!"

The shores of Portugal were beginning to lose their substance; but the land was still the land,
though at a great distance. They could distinguish the little towns that were sprinkled in
the folds of the hills, and the smoke rising faintly. The towns appeared to be very small in
comparison with the great purple mountains behind them.

"Honestly, though," said Clarissa, having looked, "I don't like views. They're too inhuman."
They walked on.

"How odd it is!" she continued impulsively. "This time yesterday we'd never met. I was packing
in a stuffy little room in the hotel. We know absolutely nothing about each other--and yet--I
feel as if I did know you!"

"You have children--your husband was in Parliament?"

"You've never been to school, and you live--?"

"With my aunts at Richmond."

"Richmond?"

"You see, my aunts like the Park. They like the quiet."

"And you don't! I understand!" Clarissa laughed.

"I like walking in the Park alone; but not--with the dogs," she finished.

"No; and some people are dogs; aren't they?" said Clarissa, as if she had guessed a secret.
"But not every one--oh no, not every one."

"Not every one," said Rachel, and stopped.

"I can quite imagine you walking alone," said Clarissa: "and thinking--in a little world of
your own. But how you will enjoy it--some day!"

"I shall enjoy walking with a man--is that what you mean?" said Rachel, regarding Mrs. Dalloway
with her large enquiring eyes.

"I wasn't thinking of a man particularly," said Clarissa. "But you will."

"No. I shall never marry," Rachel determined.

"I shouldn't be so sure of that," said Clarissa. Her sidelong glance told Rachel that she found
her attractive although she was inexplicably amused.

"Why do people marry?" Rachel asked.

"That's what you're going to find out," Clarissa laughed.

Rachel followed her eyes and found that they rested for a second, on the robust figure of Richard
Dalloway, who was engaged in striking a match on the sole of his boot; while Willoughby expounded
something, which seemed to be of great interest to them both.

"There's nothing like it," she concluded. "Do tell me about the Ambroses. Or am I asking too
many questions?"

"I find you easy to talk to," said Rachel.

The short sketch of the Ambroses was, however, somewhat perfunctory, and contained little but
the fact that Mr. Ambrose was her uncle.

"Your mother's brother?"

When a name has dropped out of use, the lightest touch upon it tells. Mrs. Dalloway went on:

"Are you like your mother?"

"No; she was different," said Rachel.

She was overcome by an intense desire to tell Mrs. Dalloway things she had never told any one--things
she had not realised herself until this moment.

"I am lonely," she began. "I want--" She did not know what she wanted, so that she could not
finish the sentence; but her lip quivered.

But it seemed that Mrs. Dalloway was able to understand without words.

"I know," she said, actually putting one arm round Rachel's shoulder. "When I was your age
I wanted too. No one understood until I met Richard. He gave me all I wanted. He's man and
woman as well." Her eyes rested upon Mr. Dalloway, leaning upon the rail, still talking. "Don't
think I say that because I'm his wife--I see his faults more clearly than I see any one else's.
What one wants in the person one lives with is that they should keep one at one's best. I often
wonder what I've done to be so happy!" she exclaimed, and a tear slid down her cheek. She wiped
it away, squeezed Rachel's hand, and exclaimed:

"How good life is!" At that moment, standing out in the fresh breeze, with the sun upon the
waves, and Mrs. Dalloway's hand upon her arm, it seemed indeed as if life which had been unnamed
before was infinitely wonderful, and too good to be true.

Here Helen passed them, and seeing Rachel arm-in-arm with a comparative stranger, looking excited,
was amused, but at the same time slightly irritated. But they were immediately joined by Richard,
who had enjoyed a very interesting talk with Willoughby and was in a sociable mood.

"Observe my Panama," he said, touching the brim of his hat. "Are you aware, Miss Vinrace, how
much can be done to induce fine weather by appropriate headdress? I have determined that it
is a hot summer day; I warn you that nothing you can say will shake me. Therefore I am going
to sit down. I advise you to follow my example." Three chairs in a row invited them to be seated.

Leaning back, Richard surveyed the waves.

"That's a very pretty blue," he said. "But there's a little too much of it. Variety is essential
to a view. Thus, if you have hills you ought to have a river; if a river, hills. The best view
in the world in my opinion is that from Boars Hill on a fine day--it must be a fine day, mark
you--A rug?--Oh, thank you, my dear . . . in that case you have also the advantage of associations--the
Past."

"D'you want to talk, Dick, or shall I read aloud?"

Clarissa had fetched a book with the rugs.

"Persuasion," announced Richard, examining the volume.

"That's for Miss Vinrace," said Clarissa. "She can't bear our beloved Jane."

"That--if I may say so--is because you have not read her," said Richard. "She is incomparably
the greatest female writer we possess."

"She is the greatest," he continued, "and for this reason: she does not attempt to write like
a man. Every other woman does; on that account, I don't read 'em."

"Produce your instances, Miss Vinrace," he went on, joining his finger-tips. "I'm ready to
be converted."

He waited, while Rachel vainly tried to vindicate her sex from the slight he put upon it.

"I'm afraid he's right," said Clarissa. "He generally is--the wretch!"

"I brought Persuasion," she went on, "because I thought it was a little less threadbare than
the others--though, Dick, it's no good your pretending to know Jane by heart, considering that
she always sends you to sleep!"

"After the labours of legislation, I deserve sleep," said Richard.

"You're not to think about those guns," said Clarissa, seeing that his eye, passing over the
waves, still sought the land meditatively, "or about navies, or empires, or anything." So saying
she opened the book and began to read:

"'Sir Walter Elliott, of Kellynch Hall, in Somersetshire, was a man who, for his own amusement,
never took up any book but the Baronetage'--don't you know Sir Walter?--'There he found occupation
for an idle hour, and consolation in a distressed one.' She does write well, doesn't she? 'There--'"
She read on in a light humorous voice. She was determined that Sir Walter should take her husband's
mind off the guns of Britain, and divert him in an exquisite, quaint, sprightly, and slightly
ridiculous world. After a time it appeared that the sun was sinking in that world, and the
points becoming softer. Rachel looked up to see what caused the change. Richard's eyelids were
closing and opening; opening and closing. A loud nasal breath announced that he no longer considered
appearances, that he was sound asleep.

"Triumph!" Clarissa whispered at the end of a sentence. Suddenly she raised her hand in protest.
A sailor hesitated; she gave the book to Rachel, and stepped lightly to take the message--"Mr.
Grice wished to know if it was convenient," etc. She followed him. Ridley, who had prowled
unheeded, started forward, stopped, and, with a gesture of disgust, strode off to his study.
The sleeping politician was left in Rachel's charge. She read a sentence, and took a look at
him. In sleep he looked like a coat hanging at the end of a bed; there were all the wrinkles,
and the sleeves and trousers kept their shape though no longer filled out by legs and arms.
You can then best judge the age and state of the coat. She looked him all over until it seemed
to her that he must protest.

He was a man of forty perhaps; and here there were lines round his eyes, and there curious
clefts in his cheeks. Slightly battered he appeared, but dogged and in the prime of life.

"Sisters and a dormouse and some canaries," Rachel murmured, never taking her eyes off him.
"I wonder, I wonder" she ceased, her chin upon her hand, still looking at him. A bell chimed
behind them, and Richard raised his head. Then he opened his eyes which wore for a second the
queer look of a shortsighted person's whose spectacles are lost. It took him a moment to recover
from the impropriety of having snored, and possibly grunted, before a young lady. To wake and
find oneself left alone with one was also slightly disconcerting.

"I suppose I've been dozing," he said. "What's happened to everyone? Clarissa?"

"Mrs. Dalloway has gone to look at Mr. Grice's fish," Rachel replied.

"I might have guessed," said Richard. "It's a common occurrence. And how have you improved
the shining hour? Have you become a convert?"

"I don't think I've read a line," said Rachel.

"That's what I always find. There are too many things to look at. I find nature very stimulating
myself. My best ideas have come to me out of doors."

"When you were walking?"

"Walking--riding--yachting--I suppose the most momentous conversations of my life took place
while perambulating the great court at Trinity. I was at both universities. It was a fad of
my father's. He thought it broadening to the mind. I think I agree with him. I can remember--what
an age ago it seems!--settling the basis of a future state with the present Secretary for India.
We thought ourselves very wise. I'm not sure we weren't. We were happy, Miss Vinrace, and we
were young--gifts which make for wisdom."

"Have you done what you said you'd do?" she asked.

"A searching question! I answer--Yes and No. If on the one hand I have not accomplished what
I set out to accomplish--which of us does!--on the other I can fairly say this: I have not
lowered my ideal."

He looked resolutely at a sea-gull, as though his ideal flew on the wings of the bird.

"But," said Rachel, "what is your ideal?"

"There you ask too much, Miss Vinrace," said Richard playfully.

She could only say that she wanted to know, and Richard was sufficiently amused to answer.

"Well, how shall I reply? In one word--Unity. Unity of aim, of dominion, of progress. The dispersion
of the best ideas over the greatest area."

"The English?"

"I grant that the English seem, on the whole, whiter than most men, their records cleaner.
But, good Lord, don't run away with the idea that I don't see the drawbacks--horrors--unmentionable
things done in our very midst! I'm under no illusions. Few people, I suppose, have fewer illusions
than I have. Have you ever been in a factory, Miss Vinrace!--No, I suppose not--I may say I
hope not."

As for Rachel, she had scarcely walked through a poor street, and always under the escort of
father, maid, or aunts.

"I was going to say that if you'd ever seen the kind of thing that's going on round you, you'd
understand what it is that makes me and men like me politicians. You asked me a moment ago
whether I'd done what I set out to do. Well, when I consider my life, there is one fact I admit
that I'm proud of; owing to me some thousands of girls in Lancashire--and many thousands to
come after them--can spend an hour every day in the open air which their mothers had to spend
over their looms. I'm prouder of that, I own, than I should be of writing Keats and Shelley
into the bargain!"

It became painful to Rachel to be one of those who write Keats and Shelley. She liked Richard
Dalloway, and warmed as he warmed. He seemed to mean what he said.

"I know nothing!" she exclaimed.

"It's far better that you should know nothing," he said paternally, "and you wrong yourself,
I'm sure. You play very nicely, I'm told, and I've no doubt you've read heaps of learned books."

Elderly banter would no longer check her.

"You talk of unity," she said. "You ought to make me understand."

"I never allow my wife to talk politics," he said seriously. "For this reason. It is impossible
for human beings, constituted as they are, both to fight and to have ideals. If I have preserved
mine, as I am thankful to say that in great measure I have, it is due to the fact that I have
been able to come home to my wife in the evening and to find that she has spent her day in
calling, music, play with the children, domestic duties--what you will; her illusions have
not been destroyed. She gives me courage to go on. The strain of public life is very great,"
he added.

This made him appear a battered martyr, parting every day with some of the finest gold, in
the service of mankind.

"I can't think," Rachel exclaimed, "how any one does it!"

"Explain, Miss Vinrace," said Richard. "This is a matter I want to clear up."

His kindness was genuine, and she determined to take the chance he gave her, although to talk
to a man of such worth and authority made her heart beat.

"It seems to me like this," she began, doing her best first to recollect and then to expose
her shivering private visions.

"There's an old widow in her room, somewhere, let us suppose in the suburbs of Leeds."

Richard bent his head to show that he accepted the widow.

"In London you're spending your life, talking, writing things, getting bills through, missing
what seems natural. The result of it all is that she goes to her cupboard and finds a little
more tea, a few lumps of sugar, or a little less tea and a newspaper. Widows all over the country
I admit do this. Still, there's the mind of the widow--the affections; those you leave untouched.
But you waste you own."

"If the widow goes to her cupboard and finds it bare," Richard answered, "her spiritual outlook
we may admit will be affected. If I may pick holes in your philosophy, Miss Vinrace, which
has its merits, I would point out that a human being is not a set of compartments, but an organism.
Imagination, Miss Vinrace; use your imagination; that's where you young Liberals fail. Conceive
the world as a whole. Now for your second point; when you assert that in trying to set the
house in order for the benefit of the young generation I am wasting my higher capabilities,
I totally disagree with you. I can conceive no more exalted aim--to be the citizen of the Empire.
Look at it in this way, Miss Vinrace; conceive the state as a complicated machine; we citizens
are parts of that machine; some fulfil more important duties; others (perhaps I am one of them)
serve only to connect some obscure parts of the mechanism, concealed from the public eye. Yet
if the meanest screw fails in its task, the proper working of the whole is imperilled."

It was impossible to combine the image of a lean black widow, gazing out of her window, and
longing for some one to talk to, with the image of a vast machine, such as one sees at South
Kensington, thumping, thumping, thumping. The attempt at communication had been a failure.

"We don't seem to understand each other," she said.

"Shall I say something that will make you very angry?" he replied.

"It won't," said Rachel.

"Well, then; no woman has what I may call the political instinct. You have very great virtues;
I am the first, I hope, to admit that; but I have never met a woman who even saw what is meant
by statesmanship. I am going to make you still more angry. I hope that I never shall meet such
a woman. Now, Miss Vinrace, are we enemies for life?"

Vanity, irritation, and a thrusting desire to be understood, urged her to make another attempt.

"Under the streets, in the sewers, in the wires, in the telephones, there is something alive;
is that what you mean? In things like dust-carts, and men mending roads? You feel that all
the time when you walk about London, and when you turn on a tap and the water comes?"

"Certainly," said Richard. "I understand you to mean that the whole of modern society is based
upon cooperative effort. If only more people would realise that, Miss Vinrace, there would
be fewer of your old widows in solitary lodgings!"

Rachel considered.

"Are you a Liberal or are you a Conservative?" she asked.

"I call myself a Conservative for convenience sake," said Richard, smiling. "But there is more
in common between the two parties than people generally allow."

There was a pause, which did not come on Rachel's side from any lack of things to say; as usual
she could not say them, and was further confused by the fact that the time for talking probably
ran short. She was haunted by absurd jumbled ideas--how, if one went back far enough, everything
perhaps was intelligible; everything was in common; for the mammoths who pastured in the fields
of Richmond High Street had turned into paving stones and boxes full of ribbon, and her aunts.

"Did you say you lived in the country when you were a child?" she asked.

Crude as her manners seemed to him, Richard was flattered. There could be no doubt that her
interest was genuine.

"I did," he smiled.

"And what happened?" she asked. "Or do I ask too many questions?"

"I'm flattered, I assure you. But--let me see--what happened? Well, riding, lessons, sisters.
There was an enchanted rubbish heap, I remember, where all kinds of queer things happened.
Odd, what things impress children! I can remember the look of the place to this day. It's a
fallacy to think that children are happy. They're not; they're unhappy. I've never suffered
so much as I did when I was a child."

"Why?" she asked.

"I didn't get on well with my father," said Richard shortly. "He was a very able man, but hard.
Well--it makes one determined not to sin in that way oneself. Children never forget injustice.
They forgive heaps of things grown-up people mind; but that sin is the unpardonable sin. Mind
you--I daresay I was a difficult child to manage; but when I think what I was ready to give!
No, I was more sinned against than sinning. And then I went to school, where I did very fairly
well; and and then, as I say, my father sent me to both universities. . . . D'you know, Miss
Vinrace, you've made me think? How little, after all, one can tell anybody about one's life!
Here I sit; there you sit; both, I doubt not, chock-full of the most interesting experiences,
ideas, emotions; yet how communicate? I've told you what every second person you meet might
tell you."

"I don't think so," she said. "It's the way of saying things, isn't it, not the things?"

"True," said Richard. "Perfectly true." He paused. "When I look back over my life--I'm forty-two--what
are the great facts that stand out? What were the revelations, if I may call them so? The misery
of the poor and--" (he hesitated and pitched over) "love!"

Upon that word he lowered his voice; it was a word that seemed to unveil the skies for Rachel.

"It's an odd thing to say to a young lady," he continued. "But have you any idea what--what
I mean by that? No, of course not. I don't use the word in a conventional sense. I use it as
young men use it. Girls are kept very ignorant, aren't they? Perhaps it's wise--perhaps--You
don't know?"

He spoke as if he had lost consciousness of what he was saying.

"No; I don't," she said, scarcely speaking above her breath.

"Warships, Dick! Over there! Look!" Clarissa, released from Mr. Grice, appreciative of all
his seaweeds, skimmed towards them, gesticulating.

She had sighted two sinister grey vessels, low in the water, and bald as bone, one closely
following the other with the look of eyeless beasts seeking their prey. Consciousness returned
to Richard instantly.

"By George!" he exclaimed, and stood shielding his eyes.

"Ours, Dick?" said Clarissa.

"The Mediterranean Fleet," he answered.

"The Euphrosyne was slowly dipping her flag. Richard raised his hat. Convulsively Clarissa
squeezed Rachel's hand.

"Aren't you glad to be English!" she said.

The warships drew past, casting a curious effect of discipline and sadness upon the waters,
and it was not until they were again invisible that people spoke to each other naturally. At
lunch the talk was all of valour and death, and the magnificent qualities of British admirals.
Clarissa quoted one poet, Willoughby quoted another. Life on board a man-of-war was splendid,
so they agreed, and sailors, whenever one met them, were quite especially nice and simple.

This being so, no one liked it when Helen remarked that it seemed to her as wrong to keep sailors
as to keep a Zoo, and that as for dying on a battle-field, surely it was time we ceased to
praise courage--"or to write bad poetry about it," snarled Pepper.

But Helen was really wondering why Rachel, sitting silent, looked so queer and flushed.

Chapter V

She was not able to follow up her observations, however, or to come to any conclusion, for
by one of those accidents which are liable to happen at sea, the whole course of their lives
was now put out of order.

Even at tea the floor rose beneath their feet and pitched too low again, and at dinner the
ship seemed to groan and strain as though a lash were descending. She who had been a broad-backed
dray-horse, upon whose hind-quarters pierrots might waltz, became a colt in a field. The plates
slanted away from the knives, and Mrs. Dalloway's face blanched for a second as she helped
herself and saw the potatoes roll this way and that. Willoughby, of course, extolled the virtues
of his ship, and quoted what had been said of her by experts and distinguished passengers,
for he loved his own possessions. Still, dinner was uneasy, and directly the ladies were alone
Clarissa owned that she would be better off in bed, and went, smiling bravely.

Next morning the storm was on them, and no politeness could ignore it. Mrs. Dalloway stayed
in her room. Richard faced three meals, eating valiantly at each; but at the third, certain
glazed asparagus swimming in oil finally conquered him.

"That beats me," he said, and withdrew.

"Now we are alone once more," remarked William Pepper, looking round the table; but no one
was ready to engage him in talk, and the meal ended in silence.

On the following day they met--but as flying leaves meet in the air. Sick they were not; but
the wind propelled them hastily into rooms, violently downstairs. They passed each other gasping
on deck; they shouted across tables. They wore fur coats; and Helen was never seen without
a bandanna on her head. For comfort they retreated to their cabins, where with tightly wedged
feet they let the ship bounce and tumble. Their sensations were the sensations of potatoes
in a sack on a galloping horse. The world outside was merely a violent grey tumult. For two
days they had a perfect rest from their old emotions. Rachel had just enough consciousness
to suppose herself a donkey on the summit of a moor in a hail-storm, with its coat blown into
furrows; then she became a wizened tree, perpetually driven back by the salt Atlantic gale.

Helen, on the other hand, staggered to Mrs. Dalloway's door, knocked, could not be heard for
the slamming of doors and the battering of wind, and entered.

There were basins, of course. Mrs. Dalloway lay half-raised on a pillow, and did not open her
eyes. Then she murmured, "Oh, Dick, is that you?"

Helen shouted--for she was thrown against the washstand--"How are you?"

Clarissa opened one eye. It gave her an incredibly dissipated appearance. "Awful!" she gasped.
Her lips were white inside.

Planting her feet wide, Helen contrived to pour champagne into a tumbler with a tooth-brush in it.

"Champagne," she said.

"There's a tooth-brush in it," murmured Clarissa, and smiled; it might have been the contortion
of one weeping. She drank.

"Disgusting," she whispered, indicating the basins. Relics of humour still played over her
face like moonshine.

"Want more?" Helen shouted. Speech was again beyond Clarissa's reach. The wind laid the ship
shivering on her side. Pale agonies crossed Mrs. Dalloway in waves. When the curtains flapped,
grey lights puffed across her. Between the spasms of the storm, Helen made the curtain fast,
shook the pillows, stretched the bed-clothes, and smoothed the hot nostrils and forehead with
cold scent.

"You are good!" Clarissa gasped. "Horrid mess!"

She was trying to apologise for white underclothes fallen and scattered on the floor. For one
second she opened a single eye, and saw that the room was tidy.

"That's nice," she gasped.

Helen left her; far, far away she knew that she felt a kind of liking for Mrs. Dalloway. She
could not help respecting her spirit and her desire, even in the throes of sickness, for a
tidy bedroom. Her petticoats, however, rose above her knees.

Quite suddenly the storm relaxed its grasp. It happened at tea; the expected paroxysm of the
blast gave out just as it reached its climax and dwindled away, and the ship instead of taking
the usual plunge went steadily. The monotonous order of plunging and rising, roaring and relaxing,
was interfered with, and every one at table looked up and felt something loosen within them.
The strain was slackened and human feelings began to peep again, as they do when daylight shows
at the end of a tunnel.

"Try a turn with me," Ridley called across to Rachel.

"Foolish!" cried Helen, but they went stumbling up the ladder. Choked by the wind their spirits
rose with a rush, for on the skirts of all the grey tumult was a misty spot of gold. Instantly
the world dropped into shape; they were no longer atoms flying in the void, but people riding
a triumphant ship on the back of the sea. Wind and space were banished; the world floated like
an apple in a tub, and the mind of man, which had been unmoored also, once more attached itself
to the old beliefs.

Having scrambled twice round the ship and received many sound cuffs from the wind, they saw
a sailor's face positively shine golden. They looked, and beheld a complete yellow circle of
sun; next minute it was traversed by sailing stands of cloud, and then completely hidden. By
breakfast the next morning, however, the sky was swept clean, the waves, although steep, were
blue, and after their view of the strange under-world, inhabited by phantoms, people began
to live among tea-pots and loaves of bread with greater zest than ever.

Richard and Clarissa, however, still remained on the borderland. She did not attempt to sit
up; her husband stood on his feet, contemplated his waistcoat and trousers, shook his head,
and then lay down again. The inside of his brain was still rising and falling like the sea
on the stage. At four o'clock he woke from sleep and saw the sunlight make a vivid angle across
the red plush curtains and the grey tweed trousers. The ordinary world outside slid into his
mind, and by the time he was dressed he was an English gentleman again.

He stood beside his wife. She pulled him down to her by the lapel of his coat, kissed him,
and held him fast for a minute.

"Go and get a breath of air, Dick," she said. "You look quite washed out. . . . How nice you
smell! . . . And be polite to that woman. She was so kind to me."

Thereupon Mrs. Dalloway turned to the cool side of her pillow, terribly flattened but still
invincible.

Richard found Helen talking to her brother-in-law, over two dishes of yellow cake and smooth
bread and butter.

"You look very ill!" she exclaimed on seeing him. "Come and have some tea."

He remarked that the hands that moved about the cups were beautiful.

"I hear you've been very good to my wife," he said. "She's had an awful time of it. You came
in and fed her with champagne. Were you among the saved yourself?"

"I? Oh, I haven't been sick for twenty years--sea-sick, I mean."

"There are three stages of convalescence, I always say," broke in the hearty voice of Willoughby.
"The milk stage, the bread-and-butter stage, and the roast-beef stage. I should say you were
at the bread-and-butter stage." He handed him the plate.

"Now, I should advise a hearty tea, then a brisk walk on deck; and by dinner-time you'll be
clamouring for beef, eh?" He went off laughing, excusing himself on the score of business.

"What a splendid fellow he is!" said Richard. "Always keen on something."

"Yes," said Helen, "he's always been like that."

"This is a great undertaking of his," Richard continued. "It's a business that won't stop with
ships, I should say. We shall see him in Parliament, or I'm much mistaken. He's the kind of
man we want in Parliament--the man who has done things."

But Helen was not much interested in her brother-in-law.

"I expect your head's aching, isn't it?" she asked, pouring a fresh cup.

"Well, it is," said Richard. "It's humiliating to find what a slave one is to one's body in
this world. D'you know, I can never work without a kettle on the hob. As often as not I don't
drink tea, but I must feel that I can if I want to."

"That's very bad for you," said Helen.

"It shortens one's life; but I'm afraid, Mrs. Ambrose, we politicians must make up our minds
to that at the outset. We've got to burn the candle at both ends, or--"

"You've cooked your goose!" said Helen brightly.

"We can't make you take us seriously, Mrs. Ambrose," he protested. "May I ask how you've spent
your time? Reading--philosophy?" (He saw the black book.) "Metaphysics and fishing!" he exclaimed.
"If I had to live again I believe I should devote myself to one or the other." He began turning
the pages.

"'Good, then, is indefinable,'" he read out. "How jolly to think that's going on still! 'So
far as I know there is only one ethical writer, Professor Henry Sidgwick, who has clearly recognised
and stated this fact.' That's just the kind of thing we used to talk about when we were boys.
I can remember arguing until five in the morning with Duffy--now Secretary for India--pacing
round and round those cloisters until we decided it was too late to go to bed, and we went
for a ride instead. Whether we ever came to any conclusion--that's another matter. Still, it's
the arguing that counts. It's things like that that stand out in life. Nothing's been quite
so vivid since. It's the philosophers, it's the scholars," he continued, "they're the people
who pass the torch, who keep the light burning by which we live. Being a politician doesn't
necessarily blind one to that, Mrs. Ambrose."

"No. Why should it?" said Helen. "But can you remember if your wife takes sugar?"

She lifted the tray and went off with it to Mrs. Dalloway.

Richard twisted a muffler twice round his throat and struggled up on deck. His body, which
had grown white and tender in a dark room, tingled all over in the fresh air. He felt himself
a man undoubtedly in the prime of life. Pride glowed in his eye as he let the wind buffet him
and stood firm. With his head slightly lowered he sheered round corners, strode uphill, and
met the blast. There was a collision. For a second he could not see what the body was he had
run into. "Sorry." "Sorry." It was Rachel who apologised. They both laughed, too much blown
about to speak. She drove open the door of her room and stepped into its calm. In order to
speak to her, it was necessary that Richard should follow. They stood in a whirlpool of wind;
papers began flying round in circles, the door crashed to, and they tumbled, laughing, into
chairs. Richard sat upon Bach.

"My word! What a tempest!" he exclaimed.

"Fine, isn't it?" said Rachel. Certainly the struggle and wind had given her a decision she
lacked; red was in her cheeks, and her hair was down.

"Oh, what fun!" he cried. "What am I sitting on? Is this your room? How jolly!" "There--sit
there," she commanded. Cowper slid once more.

"How jolly to meet again," said Richard. "It seems an age. Cowper's Letters? . . . Bach? .
. . Wuthering Heights? . . . Is this where you meditate on the world, and then come out and
pose poor politicians with questions? In the intervals of sea-sickness I've thought a lot of
our talk. I assure you, you made me think."

"I made you think! But why?"

"What solitary icebergs we are, Miss Vinrace! How little we can communicate! There are lots
of things I should like to tell you about--to hear your opinion of. Have you ever read Burke?"

"Burke?" she repeated. "Who was Burke?"

"No? Well, then I shall make a point of sending you a copy. The Speech on the French Revolution--The
American Rebellion? Which shall it be, I wonder?" He noted something in his pocket-book. "And
then you must write and tell me what you think of it. This reticence--this isolation--that's
what's the matter with modern life! Now, tell me about yourself. What are your interests and
occupations? I should imagine that you were a person with very strong interests. Of course
you are! Good God! When I think of the age we live in, with its opportunities and possibilities,
the mass of things to be done and enjoyed--why haven't we ten lives instead of one? But about
yourself?"

"You see, I'm a woman," said Rachel.

"I know--I know," said Richard, throwing his head back, and drawing his fingers across his eyes.

"How strange to be a woman! A young and beautiful woman," he continued sententiously, "has
the whole world at her feet. That's true, Miss Vinrace. You have an inestimable power--for
good or for evil. What couldn't you do--" he broke off.

"What?" asked Rachel.

"You have beauty," he said. The ship lurched. Rachel fell slightly forward. Richard took her
in his arms and kissed her. Holding her tight, he kissed her passionately, so that she felt
the hardness of his body and the roughness of his cheek printed upon hers. She fell back in
her chair, with tremendous beats of the heart, each of which sent black waves across her eyes.
He clasped his forehead in his hands.

"You tempt me," he said. The tone of his voice was terrifying. He seemed choked in fright.
They were both trembling. Rachel stood up and went. Her head was cold, her knees shaking, and
the physical pain of the emotion was so great that she could only keep herself moving above
the great leaps of her heart. She leant upon the rail of the ship, and gradually ceased to
feel, for a chill of body and mind crept over her. Far out between the waves little black and
white sea-birds were riding. Rising and falling with smooth and graceful movements in the hollows
of the waves they seemed singularly detached and unconcerned.

"You're peaceful," she said. She became peaceful too, at the same time possessed with a strange
exultation. Life seemed to hold infinite possibilities she had never guessed at. She leant
upon the rail and looked over the troubled grey waters, where the sunlight was fitfully scattered
upon the crests of the waves, until she was cold and absolutely calm again. Nevertheless something
wonderful had happened.

At dinner, however, she did not feel exalted, but merely uncomfortable, as if she and Richard
had seen something together which is hidden in ordinary life, so that they did not like to
look at each other. Richard slid his eyes over her uneasily once, and never looked at her again.
Formal platitudes were manufactured with effort, but Willoughby was kindled.

"Beef for Mr. Dalloway!" he shouted. "Come now--after that walk you're at the beef stage, Dalloway!"

Wonderful masculine stories followed about Bright and Disraeli and coalition governments, wonderful
stories which made the people at the dinner-table seem featureless and small. After dinner,
sitting alone with Rachel under the great swinging lamp, Helen was struck by her pallor. It
once more occurred to her that there was something strange in the girl's behaviour.

"You look tired. Are you tired?" she asked.

"Not tired," said Rachel. "Oh, yes, I suppose I am tired."

Helen advised bed, and she went, not seeing Richard again. She must have been very tired for
she fell asleep at once, but after an hour or two of dreamless sleep, she dreamt. She dreamt
that she was walking down a long tunnel, which grew so narrow by degrees that she could touch
the damp bricks on either side. At length the tunnel opened and became a vault; she found herself
trapped in it, bricks meeting her wherever she turned, alone with a little deformed man who
squatted on the floor gibbering, with long nails. His face was pitted and like the face of
an animal. The wall behind him oozed with damp, which collected into drops and slid down. Still
and cold as death she lay, not daring to move, until she broke the agony by tossing herself
across the bed, and woke crying "Oh!"

Light showed her the familiar things: her clothes, fallen off the chair; the water jug gleaming
white; but the horror did not go at once. She felt herself pursued, so that she got up and
actually locked her door. A voice moaned for her; eyes desired her. All night long barbarian
men harassed the ship; they came scuffling down the passages, and stopped to snuffle at her
door. She could not sleep again.

Chapter VI

"That's the tragedy of life--as I always say!" said Mrs. Dalloway. "Beginning things and having
to end them. Still, I'm not going to let this end, if you're willing." It was the morning,
the sea was calm, and the ship once again was anchored not far from another shore.

She was dressed in her long fur cloak, with the veils wound around her head, and once more
the rich boxes stood on top of each other so that the scene of a few days back seemed to be
repeated.

"D'you suppose we shall ever meet in London?" said Ridley ironically. "You'll have forgotten
all about me by the time you step out there."

He pointed to the shore of the little bay, where they could now see the separate trees with
moving branches.

"How horrid you are!" she laughed. "Rachel's coming to see me anyhow--the instant you get back,"
she said, pressing Rachel's arm. "Now--you've no excuse!"

With a silver pencil she wrote her name and address on the flyleaf of Persuasion, and gave
the book to Rachel. Sailors were shouldering the luggage, and people were beginning to congregate.
There were Captain Cobbold, Mr. Grice, Willoughby, Helen, and an obscure grateful man in a
blue jersey.

"Oh, it's time," said Clarissa. "Well, good-bye. I do like you," she murmured as she kissed
Rachel. People in the way made it unnecessary for Richard to shake Rachel by the hand; he managed
to look at her very stiffly for a second before he followed his wife down the ship's side.

The boat separating from the vessel made off towards the land, and for some minutes Helen,
Ridley, and Rachel leant over the rail, watching. Once Mrs. Dalloway turned and waved; but
the boat steadily grew smaller and smaller until it ceased to rise and fall, and nothing could
be seen save two resolute backs.

"Well, that's over," said Ridley after a long silence. "We shall never see them again," he
added, turning to go to his books. A feeling of emptiness and melancholy came over them; they
knew in their hearts that it was over, and that they had parted for ever, and the knowledge
filled them with far greater depression than the length of their acquaintance seemed to justify.
Even as the boat pulled away they could feel other sights and sounds beginning to take the
place of the Dalloways, and the feeling was so unpleasant that they tried to resist it. For
so, too, would they be forgotten.

In much the same way as Mrs. Chailey downstairs was sweeping the withered rose-leaves off the
dressing-table, so Helen was anxious to make things straight again after the visitors had gone.
Rachel's obvious languor and listlessness made her an easy prey, and indeed Helen had devised
a kind of trap. That something had happened she now felt pretty certain; moreover, she had
come to think that they had been strangers long enough; she wished to know what the girl was
like, partly of course because Rachel showed no disposition to be known. So, as they turned
from the rail, she said:

"Come and talk to me instead of practising," and led the way to the sheltered side where the
deck-chairs were stretched in the sun. Rachel followed her indifferently. Her mind was absorbed
by Richard; by the extreme strangeness of what had happened, and by a thousand feelings of
which she had not been conscious before. She made scarcely any attempt to listen to what Helen
was saying, as Helen indulged in commonplaces to begin with. While Mrs. Ambrose arranged her
embroidery, sucked her silk, and threaded her needle, she lay back gazing at the horizon.

"Did you like those people?" Helen asked her casually.

"Yes," she replied blankly.

"You talked to him, didn't you?"

She said nothing for a minute.

"He kissed me," she said without any change of tone.

Helen started, looked at her, but could not make out what she felt.

"M-m-m'yes," she said, after a pause. "I thought he was that kind of man."

"What kind of man?" said Rachel.

"Pompous and sentimental."

"I like him," said Rachel.

"So you really didn't mind?"

For the first time since Helen had known her Rachel's eyes lit up brightly.

"I did mind," she said vehemently. "I dreamt. I couldn't sleep."

"Tell me what happened," said Helen. She had to keep her lips from twitching as she listened
to Rachel's story. It was poured out abruptly with great seriousness and no sense of humour.

"We talked about politics. He told me what he had done for the poor somewhere. I asked him
all sorts of questions. He told me about his own life. The day before yesterday, after the
storm, he came in to see me. It happened then, quite suddenly. He kissed me. I don't know why."
As she spoke she grew flushed. "I was a good deal excited," she continued. "But I didn't mind
till afterwards; when--" she paused, and saw the figure of the bloated little man again--"I
became terrified."

From the look in her eyes it was evident she was again terrified. Helen was really at a loss
what to say. From the little she knew of Rachel's upbringing she supposed that she had been
kept entirely ignorant as to the relations of men with women. With a shyness which she felt
with women and not with men she did not like to explain simply what these are. Therefore she
took the other course and belittled the whole affair.

"Oh, well," she said, "He was a silly creature, and if I were you, I'd think no more about it."

"No," said Rachel, sitting bolt upright, "I shan't do that. I shall think about it all day
and all night until I find out exactly what it does mean."

"Don't you ever read?" Helen asked tentatively.

"Cowper's Letters--that kind of thing. Father gets them for me or my Aunts."

Helen could hardly restrain herself from saying out loud what she thought of a man who brought
up his daughter so that at the age of twenty-four she scarcely knew that men desired women
and was terrified by a kiss. She had good reason to fear that Rachel had made herself incredibly
ridiculous.

"You don't know many men?" she asked.

"Mr. Pepper," said Rachel ironically.

"So no one's ever wanted to marry you?"

"No," she answered ingenuously.

Helen reflected that as, from what she had said, Rachel certainly would think these things
out, it might be as well to help her.

"You oughtn't to be frightened," she said. "It's the most natural thing in the world. Men will
want to kiss you, just as they'll want to marry you. The pity is to get things out of proportion.
It's like noticing the noises people make when they eat, or men spitting; or, in short, any
small thing that gets on one's nerves."

Rachel seemed to be inattentive to these remarks.

"Tell me," she said suddenly, "what are those women in Piccadilly?"

"In Picadilly? They are prostituted," said Helen.

"It is terrifying--it is disgusting," Rachel asserted, as if she included Helen in the hatred.

"It is," said Helen. "But--"

"I did like him," Rachel mused, as if speaking to herself. "I wanted to talk to him; I wanted
to know what he'd done. The women in Lancashire--"

It seemed to her as she recalled their talk that there was something lovable about Richard,
good in their attempted friendship, and strangely piteous in the way they had parted.

The softening of her mood was apparent to Helen.

"You see," she said, "you must take things as they are; and if you want friendship with men
you must run risks. Personally," she continued, breaking into a smile, "I think it's worth
it; I don't mind being kissed; I'm rather jealous, I believe, that Mr. Dalloway kissed you
and didn't kiss me. Though," she added, "he bored me considerably."

But Rachel did not return the smile or dismiss the whole affair, as Helen meant her to. Her
mind was working very quickly, inconsistently and painfully. Helen's words hewed down great
blocks which had stood there always, and the light which came in was cold. After sitting for
a time with fixed eyes, she burst out:

"So that's why I can't walk alone!"

By this new light she saw her life for the first time a creeping hedged-in thing, driven cautiously
between high walls, here turned aside, there plunged in darkness, made dull and crippled for
ever--her life that was the only chance she had--a thousand words and actions became plain to her.

"Because men are brutes! I hate men!" she exclaimed.

"I thought you said you liked him?" said Helen.

"I liked him, and I liked being kissed," she answered, as if that only added more difficulties
to her problem.

Helen was surprised to see how genuine both shock and problem were, but she could think of
no way of easing the difficulty except by going on talking. She wanted to make her niece talk,
and so to understand why this rather dull, kindly, plausible politician had made so deep an
impression on her, for surely at the age of twenty-four this was not natural.

"And did you like Mrs. Dalloway too?" she asked.

As she spoke she saw Rachel redden; for she remembered silly things she had said, and also,
it occurred to her that she treated this exquisite woman rather badly, for Mrs. Dalloway had
said that she loved her husband.

"She was quite nice, but a thimble-pated creature," Helen continued. "I never heard such nonsense!
Chitter-chatter-chitter-chatter--fish and the Greek alphabet--never listened to a word any
one said--chock-full of idiotic theories about the way to bring up children--I'd far rather
talk to him any day. He was pompous, but he did at least understand what was said to him."

The glamour insensibly faded a little both from Richard and Clarissa. They had not been so
wonderful after all, then, in the eyes of a mature person.

"It's very difficult to know what people are like," Rachel remarked, and Helen saw with pleasure
that she spoke more naturally. "I suppose I was taken in."

There was little doubt about that according to Helen, but she restrained herself and said aloud:

"One has to make experiments."

"And they were nice," said Rachel. "They were extraordinarily interesting." She tried to recall
the image of the world as a live thing that Richard had given her, with drains like nerves,
and bad houses like patches of diseased skin. She recalled his watch-words--Unity--Imagination,
and saw again the bubbles meeting in her tea-cup as he spoke of sisters and canaries, boyhood
and his father, her small world becoming wonderfully enlarged.

"But all people don't seem to you equally interesting, do they?" asked Mrs. Ambrose.

Rachel explained that most people had hitherto been symbols; but that when they talked to one
they ceased to be symbols, and became--"I could listen to them for ever!" she exclaimed. She
then jumped up, disappeared downstairs for a minute, and came back with a fat red book.

"Who's Who," she said, laying it upon Helen's knee and turning the pages. "It gives short lives
of people--for instance: 'Sir Roland Beal; born 1852; parents from Moffatt; educated at Rugby;
passed first into R.E.; married 1878 the daughter of T. Fishwick; served in the Bechuanaland
Expedition 1884-85 (honourably mentioned). Clubs: United Service, Naval and Military. Recreations:
an enthusiastic curler.'"

Sitting on the deck at Helen's feet she went on turning the pages and reading biographies of
bankers, writers, clergymen, sailors, surgeons, judges, professors, statesmen, editors, philanthropists,
merchants, and actresses; what clubs they belonged to, where they lived, what games they played,
and how many acres they owned.

She became absorbed in the book.

Helen meanwhile stitched at her embroidery and thought over the things they had said. Her conclusion
was that she would very much like to show her niece, if it were possible, how to live, or as
she put it, how to be a reasonable person. She thought that there must be something wrong in
this confusion between politics and kissing politicians, and that an elder person ought to
be able to help.

"I quite agree," she said, "that people are very interesting; only--" Rachel, putting her finger
between the pages, looked up enquiringly.

"Only I think you ought to discriminate," she ended. "It's a pity to be intimate with people
who are--well, rather second-rate, like the Dalloways, and to find it out later."

"But how does one know?" Rachel asked.

"I really can't tell you," replied Helen candidly, after a moment's thought. "You'll have to
find out for yourself. But try and--Why don't you call me Helen?" she added. "'Aunt's' a horrid
name. I never liked my Aunts."

"I should like to call you Helen," Rachel answered.

"D'you think me very unsympathetic?"

Rachel reviewed the points which Helen had certainly failed to understand; they arose chiefly
from the difference of nearly twenty years in age between them, which made Mrs. Ambrose appear
too humorous and cool in a matter of such moment.

"No," she said. "Some things you don't understand, of course."

"Of course," Helen agreed. "So now you can go ahead and be a person on your own account," she
added.

The vision of her own personality, of herself as a real everlasting thing, different from anything
else, unmergeable, like the sea or the wind, flashed into Rachel's mind, and she became profoundly
excited at the thought of living.

"I can by m-m-myself," she stammered, "in spite of you, in spite of the Dalloways, and Mr.
Pepper, and Father, and my Aunts, in spite of these?" She swept her hand across a whole page
of statesmen and soldiers.

"In spite of them all," said Helen gravely. She then put down her needle, and explained a plan
which had come into her head as they talked. Instead of wandering on down the Amazons until
she reached some sulphurous tropical port, where one had to lie within doors all day beating
off insects with a fan, the sensible thing to do surely was to spend the season with them in
their villa by the seaside, where among other advantages Mrs. Ambrose herself would be at hand
to--"After all, Rachel," she broke off, "it's silly to pretend that because there's twenty
years' difference between us we therefore can't talk to each other like human beings."

"No; because we like each other," said Rachel.

"Yes," Mrs. Ambrose agreed.

That fact, together with other facts, had been made clear by their twenty minutes' talk, although
how they had come to these conclusions they could not have said.

However they were come by, they were sufficiently serious to send Mrs. Ambrose a day or two
later in search of her brother-in-law. She found him sitting in his room working, applying
a stout blue pencil authoritatively to bundles of filmy paper. Papers lay to left and to right
of him, there were great envelopes so gorged with papers that they spilt papers on to the table.
Above him hung a photograph of a woman's head. The need of sitting absolutely still before
a Cockney photographer had given her lips a queer little pucker, and her eyes for the same
reason looked as though she thought the whole situation ridiculous. Nevertheless it was the
head of an individual and interesting woman, who would no doubt have turned and laughed at
Willoughby if she could have caught his eye; but when he looked up at her he sighed profoundly.
In his mind this work of his, the great factories at Hull which showed like mountains at night,
the ships that crossed the ocean punctually, the schemes for combining this and that and building
up a solid mass of industry, was all an offering to her; he laid his success at her feet; and
was always thinking how to educate his daughter so that Theresa might be glad. He was a very
ambitious man; and although he had not been particularly kind to her while she lived, as Helen
thought, he now believed that she watched him from Heaven, and inspired what was good in him.

Mrs. Ambrose apologised for the interruption, and asked whether she might speak to him about
a plan of hers. Would he consent to leave his daughter with them when they landed, instead
of taking her on up the Amazons?

"We would take great care of her," she added, "and we should really like it."

Willoughby looked very grave and carefully laid aside his papers.

"She's a good girl," he said at length. "There is a likeness?"--he nodded his head at the photograph
of Theresa and sighed. Helen looked at Theresa pursing up her lips before the Cockney photographer.
It suggested her in an absurd human way, and she felt an intense desire to share some joke.

"She's the only thing that's left to me," sighed Willoughby. "We go on year after year without
talking about these things--" He broke off. "But it's better so. Only life's very hard."

Helen was sorry for him, and patted him on the shoulder, but she felt uncomfortable when her
brother-in-law expressed his feelings, and took refuge in praising Rachel, and explaining why
she thought her plan might be a good one.

"True," said Willoughby when she had done. "The social conditions are bound to be primitive.
I should be out a good deal. I agreed because she wished it. And of course I have complete
confidence in you. . . . You see, Helen," he continued, becoming confidential, "I want to bring
her up as her mother would have wished. I don't hold with these modern views--any more than
you do, eh? She's a nice quiet girl, devoted to her music--a little less of that would do no
harm. Still, it's kept her happy, and we lead a very quiet life at Richmond. I should like
her to begin to see more people. I want to take her about with me when I get home. I've half
a mind to rent a house in London, leaving my sisters at Richmond, and take her to see one or
two people who'd be kind to her for my sake. I'm beginning to realise," he continued, stretching
himself out, "that all this is tending to Parliament, Helen. It's the only way to get things
done as one wants them done. I talked to Dalloway about it. In that case, of course, I should
want Rachel to be able to take more part in things. A certain amount of entertaining would
be necessary--dinners, an occasional evening party. One's constituents like to be fed, I believe.
In all these ways Rachel could be of great help to me. So," he wound up, "I should be very
glad, if we arrange this visit (which must be upon a business footing, mind), if you could
see your way to helping my girl, bringing her out--she's a little shy now,--making a woman
of her, the kind of woman her mother would have liked her to be," he ended, jerking his head
at the photograph.

Willoughby's selfishness, though consistent as Helen saw with real affection for his daughter,
made her determined to have the girl to stay with her, even if she had to promise a complete
course of instruction in the feminine graces. She could not help laughing at the notion of
it--Rachel a Tory hostess!--and marvelling as she left him at the astonishing ignorance of
a father.

Rachel, when consulted, showed less enthusiasm than Helen could have wished. One moment she
was eager, the next doubtful. Visions of a great river, now blue, now yellow in the tropical
sun and crossed by bright birds, now white in the moon, now deep in shade with moving trees
and canoes sliding out from the tangled banks, beset her. Helen promised a river. Then she
did not want to leave her father. That feeling seemed genuine too, but in the end Helen prevailed,
although when she had won her case she was beset by doubts, and more than once regretted the
impulse which had entangled her with the fortunes of another human being.

Chapter VII

From a distance the Euphrosyne looked very small. Glasses were turned upon her from the decks
of great liners, and she was pronounced a tramp, a cargo-boat, or one of those wretched little
passenger steamers where people rolled about among the cattle on deck. The insect-like figures
of Dalloways, Ambroses, and Vinraces were also derided, both from the extreme smallness of
their persons and the doubt which only strong glasses could dispel as to whether they were
really live creatures or only lumps on the rigging. Mr. Pepper with all his learning had been
mistaken for a cormorant, and then, as unjustly, transformed into a cow. At night, indeed,
when the waltzes were swinging in the saloon, and gifted passengers reciting, the little ship--shrunk
to a few beads of light out among the dark waves, and one high in air upon the mast-head--seemed
something mysterious and impressive to heated partners resting from the dance. She became a
ship passing in the night--an emblem of the loneliness of human life, an occasion for queer
confidences and sudden appeals for sympathy.

On and on she went, by day and by night, following her path, until one morning broke and showed
the land. Losing its shadow-like appearance it became first cleft and mountainous, next coloured
grey and purple, next scattered with white blocks which gradually separated themselves, and
then, as the progress of the ship acted upon the view like a field-glass of increasing power,
became streets of houses. By nine o'clock the Euphrosyne had taken up her position in the middle
of a great bay; she dropped her anchor; immediately, as if she were a recumbent giant requiring
examination, small boats came swarming about her. She rang with cries; men jumped on to her;
her deck was thumped by feet. The lonely little island was invaded from all quarters at once,
and after four weeks of silence it was bewildering to hear human speech. Mrs. Ambrose alone
heeded none of this stir. She was pale with suspense while the boat with mail bags was making
towards them. Absorbed in her letters she did not notice that she had left the Euphrosyne,
and felt no sadness when the ship lifted up her voice and bellowed thrice like a cow separated
from its calf.

"The children are well!" she exclaimed. Mr. Pepper, who sat opposite with a great mound of
bag and rug upon his knees, said, "Gratifying." Rachel, to whom the end of the voyage meant
a complete change of perspective, was too much bewildered by the approach of the shore to realise
what children were well or why it was gratifying. Helen went on reading.

Moving very slowly, and rearing absurdly high over each wave, the little boat was now approaching
a white crescent of sand. Behind this was a deep green valley, with distinct hills on either
side. On the slope of the right-hand hill white houses with brown roofs were settled, like
nesting sea-birds, and at intervals cypresses striped the hill with black bars. Mountains whose
sides were flushed with red, but whose crowns were bald, rose as a pinnacle, half-concealing
another pinnacle behind it. The hour being still early, the whole view was exquisitely light
and airy; the blues and greens of sky and tree were intense but not sultry. As they drew nearer
and could distinguish details, the effect of the earth with its minute objects and colours
and different forms of life was overwhelming after four weeks of the sea, and kept them silent.

"Three hundred years odd," said Mr. Pepper meditatively at length.

As nobody said, "What?" he merely extracted a bottle and swallowed a pill. The piece of information
that died within him was to the effect that three hundred years ago five Elizabethan barques
had anchored where the Euphrosyne now floated. Half-drawn up upon the beach lay an equal number
of Spanish galleons, unmanned, for the country was still a virgin land behind a veil. Slipping
across the water, the English sailors bore away bars of silver, bales of linen, timbers of
cedar wood, golden crucifixes knobbed with emeralds. When the Spaniards came down from their
drinking, a fight ensued, the two parties churning up the sand, and driving each other into
the surf. The Spaniards, bloated with fine living upon the fruits of the miraculous land, fell
in heaps; but the hardy Englishmen, tawny with sea-voyaging, hairy for lack of razors, with
muscles like wire, fangs greedy for flesh, and fingers itching for gold, despatched the wounded,
drove the dying into the sea, and soon reduced the natives to a state of superstitious wonderment.
Here a settlement was made; women were imported; children grew. All seemed to favour the expansion
of the British Empire, and had there been men like Richard Dalloway in the time of Charles
the First, the map would undoubtedly be red where it is now an odious green. But it must be
supposed that the political mind of that age lacked imagination, and, merely for want of a
few thousand pounds and a few thousand men, the spark died that should have been a conflagration.
From the interior came Indians with subtle poisons, naked bodies, and painted idols; from the
sea came vengeful Spaniards and rapacious Portuguese; exposed to all these enemies (though
the climate proved wonderfully kind and the earth abundant) the English dwindled away and all
but disappeared. Somewhere about the middle of the seventeenth century a single sloop watched
its season and slipped out by night, bearing within it all that was left of the great British
colony, a few men, a few women, and perhaps a dozen dusky children. English history then denies
all knowledge of the place. Owing to one cause and another civilisation shifted its centre
to a spot some four or five hundred miles to the south, and to-day Santa Marina is not much
larger than it was three hundred years ago. In population it is a happy compromise, for Portuguese
fathers wed Indian mothers, and their children intermarry with the Spanish. Although they get
their ploughs from Manchester, they make their coats from their own sheep, their silk from
their own worms, and their furniture from their own cedar trees, so that in arts and industries
the place is still much where it was in Elizabethan days.

The reasons which had drawn the English across the sea to found a small colony within the last
ten years are not so easily described, and will never perhaps be recorded in history books.
Granted facility of travel, peace, good trade, and so on, there was besides a kind of dissatisfaction
among the English with the older countries and the enormous accumulations of carved stone,
stained glass, and rich brown painting which they offered to the tourist. The movement in search
of something new was of course infinitely small, affecting only a handful of well-to-do people.
It began by a few schoolmasters serving their passage out to South America as the pursers of
tramp steamers. They returned in time for the summer term, when their stories of the splendours
and hardships of life at sea, the humours of sea-captains, the wonders of night and dawn, and
the marvels of the place delighted outsiders, and sometimes found their way into print. The
country itself taxed all their powers of description, for they said it was much bigger than
Italy, and really nobler than Greece. Again, they declared that the natives were strangely
beautiful, very big in stature, dark, passionate, and quick to seize the knife. The place seemed
new and full of new forms of beauty, in proof of which they showed handkerchiefs which the
women had worn round their heads, and primitive carvings coloured bright greens and blues.
Somehow or other, as fashions do, the fashion spread; an old monastery was quickly turned into
a hotel, while a famous line of steamships altered its route for the convenience of passengers.

Oddly enough it happened that the least satisfactory of Helen Ambrose's brothers had been sent
out years before to make his fortune, at any rate to keep clear of race-horses, in the very
spot which had now become so popular. Often, leaning upon the column in the verandah, he had
watched the English ships with English schoolmasters for pursers steaming into the bay. Having
at length earned enough to take a holiday, and being sick of the place, he proposed to put
his villa, on the slope of the mountain, at his sister's disposal. She, too, had been a little
stirred by the talk of a new world, where there was always sun and never a fog, which went
on around her, and the chance, when they were planning where to spend the winter out of England,
seemed too good to be missed. For these reasons she determined to accept Willoughby's offer
of free passages on his ship, to place the children with their grand-parents, and to do the
thing thoroughly while she was about it.

Taking seats in a carriage drawn by long-tailed horses with pheasants' feathers erect between
their ears, the Ambroses, Mr. Pepper, and Rachel rattled out of the harbour. The day increased
in heat as they drove up the hill. The road passed through the town, where men seemed to be
beating brass and crying "Water," where the passage was blocked by mules and cleared by whips
and curses, where the women walked barefoot, their heads balancing baskets, and cripples hastily
displayed mutilated members; it issued among steep green fields, not so green but that the
earth showed through. Great trees now shaded all but the centre of the road, and a mountain
stream, so shallow and so swift that it plaited itself into strands as it ran, raced along
the edge. Higher they went, until Ridley and Rachel walked behind; next they turned along a
lane scattered with stones, where Mr. Pepper raised his stick and silently indicated a shrub,
bearing among sparse leaves a voluminous purple blossom; and at a rickety canter the last stage
of the way was accomplished.

The villa was a roomy white house, which, as is the case with most continental houses, looked
to an English eye frail, ramshackle, and absurdly frivolous, more like a pagoda in a tea-garden
than a place where one slept. The garden called urgently for the services of gardener. Bushes
waved their branches across the paths, and the blades of grass, with spaces of earth between
them, could be counted. In the circular piece of ground in front of the verandah were two cracked
vases, from which red flowers drooped, with a stone fountain between them, now parched in the
sun. The circular garden led to a long garden, where the gardener's shears had scarcely been,
unless now and then, when he cut a bough of blossom for his beloved. A few tall trees shaded
it, and round bushes with wax-like flowers mobbed their heads together in a row. A garden smoothly
laid with turf, divided by thick hedges, with raised beds of bright flowers, such as we keep
within walls in England, would have been out of place upon the side of this bare hill. There
was no ugliness to shut out, and the villa looked straight across the shoulder of a slope,
ribbed with olive trees, to the sea.

The indecency of the whole place struck Mrs. Chailey forcibly. There were no blinds to shut
out the sun, nor was there any furniture to speak of for the sun to spoil. Standing in the
bare stone hall, and surveying a staircase of superb breadth, but cracked and carpetless, she
further ventured the opinion that there were rats, as large as terriers at home, and that if
one put one's foot down with any force one would come through the floor. As for hot water--at
this point her investigations left her speechless.

"Poor creature!" she murmured to the sallow Spanish servant-girl who came out with the pigs
and hens to receive them, "no wonder you hardly look like a human being!" Maria accepted the
compliment with an exquisite Spanish grace. In Chailey's opinion they would have done better
to stay on board an English ship, but none knew better than she that her duty commanded her
to stay.

When they were settled in, and in train to find daily occupation, there was some speculation
as to the reasons which induced Mr. Pepper to stay, taking up his lodging in the Ambroses'
house. Efforts had been made for some days before landing to impress upon him the advantages
of the Amazons.

"That great stream!" Helen would begin, gazing as if she saw a visionary cascade, "I've a good
mind to go with you myself, Willoughby--only I can't. Think of the sunsets and the moonrises--I
believe the colours are unimaginable."

"There are wild peacocks," Rachel hazarded.

"And marvellous creatures in the water," Helen asserted.

"One might discover a new reptile," Rachel continued.

"There's certain to be a revolution, I'm told," Helen urged.

The effect of these subterfuges was a little dashed by Ridley, who, after regarding Pepper
for some moments, sighed aloud, "Poor fellow!" and inwardly speculated upon the unkindness
of women.

He stayed, however, in apparent contentment for six days, playing with a microscope and a notebook
in one of the many sparsely furnished sitting-rooms, but on the evening of the seventh day,
as they sat at dinner, he appeared more restless than usual. The dinner-table was set between
two long windows which were left uncurtained by Helen's orders. Darkness fell as sharply as
a knife in this climate, and the town then sprang out in circles and lines of bright dots beneath
them. Buildings which never showed by day showed by night, and the sea flowed right over the
land judging by the moving lights of the steamers. The sight fulfilled the same purpose as
an orchestra in a London restaurant, and silence had its setting. William Pepper observed it
for some time; he put on his spectacles to contemplate the scene.

"I've identified the big block to the left," he observed, and pointed with his fork at a square
formed by several rows of lights.

"One should infer that they can cook vegetables," he added.

"An hotel?" said Helen.

"Once a monastery," said Mr. Pepper.

Nothing more was said then, but, the day after, Mr. Pepper returned from a midday walk, and
stood silently before Helen who was reading in the verandah.

"I've taken a room over there," he said.

"You're not going?" she exclaimed.

"On the whole--yes," he remarked. "No private cook can cook vegetables."

Knowing his dislike of questions, which she to some extent shared, Helen asked no more. Still,
an uneasy suspicion lurked in her mind that William was hiding a wound. She flushed to think
that her words, or her husband's, or Rachel's had penetrated and stung. She was half-moved
to cry, "Stop, William; explain!" and would have returned to the subject at luncheon if William
had not shown himself inscrutable and chill, lifting fragments of salad on the point of his
fork, with the gesture of a man pronging seaweed, detecting gravel, suspecting germs.

"If you all die of typhoid I won't be responsible!" he snapped.

"If you die of dulness, neither will I," Helen echoed in her heart.

She reflected that she had never yet asked him whether he had been in love. They had got further
and further from that subject instead of drawing nearer to it, and she could not help feeling
it a relief when William Pepper, with all his knowledge, his microscope, his note-books, his
genuine kindliness and good sense, but a certain dryness of soul, took his departure. Also
she could not help feeling it sad that friendships should end thus, although in this case to
have the room empty was something of a comfort, and she tried to console herself with the reflection
that one never knows how far other people feel the things they might be supposed to feel.

Chapter VIII

The next few months passed away, as many years can pass away, without definite events, and
yet, if suddenly disturbed, it would be seen that such months or years had a character unlike
others. The three months which had passed had brought them to the beginning of March. The climate
had kept its promise, and the change of season from winter to spring had made very little difference,
so that Helen, who was sitting in the drawing-room with a pen in her hand, could keep the windows
open though a great fire of logs burnt on one side of her. Below, the sea was still blue and
the roofs still brown and white, though the day was fading rapidly. It was dusk in the room,
which, large and empty at all times, now appeared larger and emptier than usual. Her own figure,
as she sat writing with a pad on her knee, shared the general effect of size and lack of detail,
for the flames which ran along the branches, suddenly devouring little green tufts, burnt intermittently
and sent irregular illuminations across her face and the plaster walls. There were no pictures
on the walls but here and there boughs laden with heavy-petalled flowers spread widely against
them. Of the books fallen on the bare floor and heaped upon the large table, it was only possible
in this light to trace the outline.

Mrs. Ambrose was writing a very long letter. Beginning "Dear Bernard," it went on to describe
what had been happening in the Villa San Gervasio during the past three months, as, for instance,
that they had had the British Consul to dinner, and had been taken over a Spanish man-of-war,
and had seen a great many processions and religious festivals, which were so beautiful that
Mrs. Ambrose couldn't conceive why, if people must have a religion, they didn't all become
Roman Catholics. They had made several expeditions though none of any length. It was worth
coming if only for the sake of the flowering trees which grew wild quite near the house, and
the amazing colours of sea and earth. The earth, instead of being brown, was red, purple, green.
"You won't believe me," she added, "there is no colour like it in England." She adopted, indeed,
a condescending tone towards that poor island, which was now advancing chilly crocuses and
nipped violets in nooks, in copses, in cosy corners, tended by rosy old gardeners in mufflers,
who were always touching their hats and bobbing obsequiously. She went on to deride the islanders
themselves. Rumours of London all in a ferment over a General Election had reached them even
out here. "It seems incredible," she went on, "that people should care whether Asquith is in
or Austen Chamberlin out, and while you scream yourselves hoarse about politics you let the
only people who are trying for something good starve or simply laugh at them. When have you
ever encouraged a living artist? Or bought his best work? Why are you all so ugly and so servile?
Here the servants are human beings. They talk to one as if they were equals. As far as I can
tell there are no aristocrats."

Perhaps it was the mention of aristocrats that reminded her of Richard Dalloway and Rachel,
for she ran on with the same penful to describe her niece.

"It's an odd fate that has put me in charge of a girl," she wrote, "considering that I have
never got on well with women, or had much to do with them. However, I must retract some of
the things that I have said against them. If they were properly educated I don't see why they
shouldn't be much the same as men--as satisfactory I mean; though, of course, very different.
The question is, how should one educate them. The present method seems to me abominable. This
girl, though twenty-four, had never heard that men desired women, and, until I explained it,
did not know how children were born. Her ignorance upon other matters as important" (here Mrs.
Ambrose's letter may not be quoted) . . . "was complete. It seems to me not merely foolish
but criminal to bring people up like that. Let alone the suffering to them, it explains why
women are what they are--the wonder is they're no worse. I have taken it upon myself to enlighten
her, and now, though still a good deal prejudiced and liable to exaggerate, she is more or
less a reasonable human being. Keeping them ignorant, of course, defeats its own object, and
when they begin to understand they take it all much too seriously. My brother-in-law really
deserved a catastrophe--which he won't get. I now pray for a young man to come to my help;
some one, I mean, who would talk to her openly, and prove how absurd most of her ideas about
life are. Unluckily such men seem almost as rare as the women. The English colony certainly
doesn't provide one; artists, merchants, cultivated people--they are stupid, conventional,
and flirtatious. . . ." She ceased, and with her pen in her hand sat looking into the fire,
making the logs into caves and mountains, for it had grown too dark to go on writing. Moreover,
the house began to stir as the hour of dinner approached; she could hear the plates being chinked
in the dining-room next door, and Chailey instructing the Spanish girl where to put things
down in vigorous English. The bell rang; she rose, met Ridley and Rachel outside, and they
all went in to dinner.

Three months had made but little difference in the appearance either of Ridley or Rachel; yet
a keen observer might have thought that the girl was more definite and self-confident in her
manner than before. Her skin was brown, her eyes certainly brighter, and she attended to what
was said as though she might be going to contradict it. The meal began with the comfortable
silence of people who are quite at their ease together. Then Ridley, leaning on his elbow and
looking out of the window, observed that it was a lovely night.

"Yes," said Helen. She added, "The season's begun," looking at the lights beneath them. She
asked Maria in Spanish whether the hotel was not filling up with visitors. Maria informed her
with pride that there would come a time when it was positively difficult to buy eggs--the shopkeepers
would not mind what prices they asked; they would get them, at any rate, from the English.

"That's an English steamer in the bay," said Rachel, looking at a triangle of lights below.
"She came in early this morning."

"Then we may hope for some letters and send ours back," said Helen.

For some reason the mention of letters always made Ridley groan, and the rest of the meal passed
in a brisk argument between husband and wife as to whether he was or was not wholly ignored
by the entire civilised world.

"Considering the last batch," said Helen, "you deserve beating. You were asked to lecture,
you were offered a degree, and some silly woman praised not only your books but your beauty--she
said he was what Shelley would have been if Shelley had lived to fifty-five and grown a beard.
Really, Ridley, I think you're the vainest man I know," she ended, rising from the table, "which
I may tell you is saying a good deal."

Finding her letter lying before the fire she added a few lines to it, and then announced that
she was going to take the letters now--Ridley must bring his--and Rachel?

"I hope you've written to your Aunts? It's high time."

The women put on cloaks and hats, and after inviting Ridley to come with them, which he emphatically
refused to do, exclaiming that Rachel he expected to be a fool, but Helen surely knew better,
they turned to go. He stood over the fire gazing into the depths of the looking-glass, and
compressing his face into the likeness of a commander surveying a field of battle, or a martyr
watching the flames lick his toes, rather than that of a secluded Professor.

Helen laid hold of his beard.

"Am I a fool?" she said.

"Let me go, Helen."

"Am I a fool?" she repeated.

"Vile woman!" he exclaimed, and kissed her.

"We'll leave you to your vanities," she called back as they went out of the door.

It was a beautiful evening, still light enough to see a long way down the road, though the
stars were coming out. The pillar-box was let into a high yellow wall where the lane met the
road, and having dropped the letters into it, Helen was for turning back.

"No, no," said Rachel, taking her by the wrist. "We're going to see life. You promised."

"Seeing life" was the phrase they used for their habit of strolling through the town after
dark. The social life of Santa Marina was carried on almost entirely by lamp-light, which the
warmth of the nights and the scents culled from flowers made pleasant enough. The young women,
with their hair magnificently swept in coils, a red flower behind the ear, sat on the doorsteps,
or issued out on to balconies, while the young men ranged up and down beneath, shouting up
a greeting from time to time and stopping here and there to enter into amorous talk. At the
open windows merchants could be seen making up the day's account, and older women lifting jars
from shelf to shelf. The streets were full of people, men for the most part, who interchanged
their views of the world as they walked, or gathered round the wine-tables at the street corner,
where an old cripple was twanging his guitar strings, while a poor girl cried her passionate
song in the gutter. The two Englishwomen excited some friendly curiosity, but no one molested them.

Helen sauntered on, observing the different people in their shabby clothes, who seemed so careless
and so natural, with satisfaction.

"Just think of the Mall to-night!" she exclaimed at length. "It's the fifteenth of March. Perhaps
there's a Court." She thought of the crowd waiting in the cold spring air to see the grand
carriages go by. "It's very cold, if it's not raining," she said. "First there are men selling
picture postcards; then there are wretched little shop-girls with round bandboxes; then there
are bank clerks in tail coats; and then--any number of dressmakers. People from South Kensington
drive up in a hired fly; officials have a pair of bays; earls, on the other hand, are allowed
one footman to stand up behind; dukes have two, royal dukes--so I was told--have three; the
king, I suppose, can have as many as he likes. And the people believe in it!"

Out here it seemed as though the people of England must be shaped in the body like the kings
and queens, knights and pawns of the chessboard, so strange were their differences, so marked
and so implicitly believed in.

They had to part in order to circumvent a crowd.

"They believe in God," said Rachel as they regained each other. She meant that the people in
the crowd believed in Him; for she remembered the crosses with bleeding plaster figures that
stood where foot-paths joined, and the inexplicable mystery of a service in a Roman Catholic
church.

"We shall never understand!" she sighed.

They had walked some way and it was now night, but they could see a large iron gate a little
way farther down the road on their left.

"Do you mean to go right up to the hotel?" Helen asked.

Rachel gave the gate a push; it swung open, and, seeing no one about and judging that nothing
was private in this country, they walked straight on. An avenue of trees ran along the road,
which was completely straight. The trees suddenly came to an end; the road turned a corner,
and they found themselves confronted by a large square building. They had come out upon the
broad terrace which ran round the hotel and were only a few feet distant from the windows.
A row of long windows opened almost to the ground. They were all of them uncurtained, and all
brilliantly lighted, so that they could see everything inside. Each window revealed a different
section of the life of the hotel. They drew into one of the broad columns of shadow which separated
the windows and gazed in. They found themselves just outside the dining-room. It was being
swept; a waiter was eating a bunch of grapes with his leg across the corner of a table. Next
door was the kitchen, where they were washing up; white cooks were dipping their arms into
cauldrons, while the waiters made their meal voraciously off broken meats, sopping up the gravy
with bits of crumb. Moving on, they became lost in a plantation of bushes, and then suddenly
found themselves outside the drawing-room, where the ladies and gentlemen, having dined well,
lay back in deep arm-chairs, occasionally speaking or turning over the pages of magazines.
A thin woman was flourishing up and down the piano.

"What is a dahabeeyah, Charles?" the distinct voice of a widow, seated in an arm-chair by the
window, asked her son.

It was the end of the piece, and his answer was lost in the general clearing of throats and
tapping of knees.

"They're all old in this room," Rachel whispered.

Creeping on, they found that the next window revealed two men in shirt-sleeves playing billiards
with two young ladies.

"He pinched my arm!" the plump young woman cried, as she missed her stroke.

"Now you two--no ragging," the young man with the red face reproved them, who was marking.

"Take care or we shall be seen," whispered Helen, plucking Rachel by the arm. Incautiously
her head had risen to the middle of the window.

Turning the corner they came to the largest room in the hotel, which was supplied with four
windows, and was called the Lounge, although it was really a hall. Hung with armour and native
embroideries, furnished with divans and screens, which shut off convenient corners, the room
was less formal than the others, and was evidently the haunt of youth. Signor Rodriguez, whom
they knew to be the manager of the hotel, stood quite near them in the doorway surveying the
scene--the gentlemen lounging in chairs, the couples leaning over coffee-cups, the game of
cards in the centre under profuse clusters of electric light. He was congratulating himself
upon the enterprise which had turned the refectory, a cold stone room with pots on trestles,
into the most comfortable room in the house. The hotel was very full, and proved his wisdom
in decreeing that no hotel can flourish without a lounge.

The people were scattered about in couples or parties of four, and either they were actually
better acquainted, or the informal room made their manners easier. Through the open window
came an uneven humming sound like that which rises from a flock of sheep pent within hurdles
at dusk. The card-party occupied the centre of the foreground.

Helen and Rachel watched them play for some minutes without being able to distinguish a word.
Helen was observing one of the men intently. He was a lean, somewhat cadaverous man of about
her own age, whose profile was turned to them, and he was the partner of a highly-coloured
girl, obviously English by birth.

Suddenly, in the strange way in which some words detach themselves from the rest, they heard
him say quite distinctly:--

"All you want is practice, Miss Warrington; courage and practice--one's no good without the other."

"Hughling Elliot! Of course!" Helen exclaimed. She ducked her head immediately, for at the
sound of his name he looked up. The game went on for a few minutes, and was then broken up
by the approach of a wheeled chair, containing a voluminous old lady who paused by the table
and said:--

"Better luck to-night, Susan?"

"All the luck's on our side," said a young man who until now had kept his back turned to the
window. He appeared to be rather stout, and had a thick crop of hair.

"Luck, Mr. Hewet?" said his partner, a middle-aged lady with spectacles. "I assure you, Mrs.
Paley, our success is due solely to our brilliant play."

"Unless I go to bed early I get practically no sleep at all," Mrs. Paley was heard to explain,
as if to justify her seizure of Susan, who got up and proceeded to wheel the chair to the door.

"They'll get some one else to take my place," she said cheerfully. But she was wrong. No attempt
was made to find another player, and after the young man had built three stories of a card-house,
which fell down, the players strolled off in different directions.

Mr. Hewet turned his full face towards the window. They could see that he had large eyes obscured
by glasses; his complexion was rosy, his lips clean-shaven; and, seen among ordinary people,
it appeared to be an interesting face. He came straight towards them, but his eyes were fixed
not upon the eavesdroppers but upon a spot where the curtain hung in folds.

"Asleep?" he said.

Helen and Rachel started to think that some one had been sitting near to them unobserved all
the time. There were legs in the shadow. A melancholy voice issued from above them.

"Two women," it said.

A scuffling was heard on the gravel. The women had fled. They did not stop running until they
felt certain that no eye could penetrate the darkness and the hotel was only a square shadow
in the distance, with red holes regularly cut in it.

Chapter IX

An hour passed, and the downstairs rooms at the hotel grew dim and were almost deserted, while
the little box-like squares above them were brilliantly irradiated. Some forty or fifty people
were going to bed. The thump of jugs set down on the floor above could be heard and the clink
of china, for there was not as thick a partition between the rooms as one might wish, so Miss
Allan, the elderly lady who had been playing bridge, determined, giving the wall a smart rap
with her knuckles. It was only matchboard, she decided, run up to make many little rooms of
one large one. Her grey petticoats slipped to the ground, and, stooping, she folded her clothes
with neat, if not loving fingers, screwed her hair into a plait, wound her father's great gold
watch, and opened the complete works of Wordsworth. She was reading the "Prelude," partly because
she always read the "Prelude" abroad, and partly because she was engaged in writing a short
Primer of English Literature--Beowulf to Swinburne--which would have a paragraph on Wordsworth.
She was deep in the fifth book, stopping indeed to pencil a note, when a pair of boots dropped,
one after another, on the floor above her. She looked up and speculated. Whose boots were they,
she wondered. She then became aware of a swishing sound next door--a woman, clearly, putting
away her dress. It was succeeded by a gentle tapping sound, such as that which accompanies
hair-dressing. It was very difficult to keep her attention fixed upon the "Prelude." Was it
Susan Warrington tapping? She forced herself, however, to read to the end of the book, when
she placed a mark between the pages, sighed contentedly, and then turned out the light.

Very different was the room through the wall, though as like in shape as one egg-box is like
another. As Miss Allan read her book, Susan Warrington was brushing her hair. Ages have consecrated
this hour, and the most majestic of all domestic actions, to talk of love between women; but
Miss Warrington being alone could not talk; she could only look with extreme solicitude at
her own face in the glass. She turned her head from side to side, tossing heavy locks now this
way now that; and then withdrew a pace or two, and considered herself seriously.

"I'm nice-looking," she determined. "Not pretty--possibly," she drew herself up a little. "Yes--most
people would say I was handsome."

She was really wondering what Arthur Venning would say she was. Her feeling about him was decidedly
queer. She would not admit to herself that she was in love with him or that she wanted to marry
him, yet she spent every minute when she was alone in wondering what he thought of her, and
in comparing what they had done to-day with what they had done the day before.

"He didn't ask me to play, but he certainly followed me into the hall," she meditated, summing
up the evening. She was thirty years of age, and owing to the number of her sisters and the
seclusion of life in a country parsonage had as yet had no proposal of marriage. The hour of
confidences was often a sad one, and she had been known to jump into bed, treating her hair
unkindly, feeling herself overlooked by life in comparison with others. She was a big, well-made
woman, the red lying upon her cheeks in patches that were too well defined, but her serious
anxiety gave her a kind of beauty.

She was just about to pull back the bed-clothes when she exclaimed, "Oh, but I'm forgetting,"
and went to her writing-table. A brown volume lay there stamped with the figure of the year.
She proceeded to write in the square ugly hand of a mature child, as she wrote daily year after
year, keeping the diaries, though she seldom looked at them.

"A.M.--Talked to Mrs. H. Elliot about country neighbours. She knows the Manns; also the Selby-Carroways.
How small the world is! Like her. Read a chapter of Miss Appleby's Adventure to Aunt E. P.M.--Played
lawn-tennis with Mr. Perrott and Evelyn M. Don't like Mr. P. Have a feeling that he is not
'quite,' though clever certainly. Beat them. Day splendid, view wonderful. One gets used to
no trees, though much too bare at first. Cards after dinner. Aunt E. cheerful, though twingy,
she says. Mem.: ask about damp sheets."

She knelt in prayer, and then lay down in bed, tucking the blankets comfortably about her,
and in a few minutes her breathing showed that she was asleep. With its profoundly peaceful
sighs and hesitations it resembled that of a cow standing up to its knees all night through
in the long grass.

A glance into the next room revealed little more than a nose, prominent above the sheets. Growing
accustomed to the darkness, for the windows were open and showed grey squares with splinters
of starlight, one could distinguish a lean form, terribly like the body of a dead person, the
body indeed of William Pepper, asleep too. Thirty-six, thirty-seven, thirty-eight--here were
three Portuguese men of business, asleep presumably, since a snore came with the regularity
of a great ticking clock. Thirty-nine was a corner room, at the end of the passage, but late
though it was--"One" struck gently downstairs--a line of light under the door showed that some
one was still awake.

"How late you are, Hugh!" a woman, lying in bed, said in a peevish but solicitous voice. Her
husband was brushing his teeth, and for some moments did not answer.

"You should have gone to sleep," he replied. "I was talking to Thornbury."

"But you know that I never can sleep when I'm waiting for you," she said.

To that he made no answer, but only remarked, "Well then, we'll turn out the light." They were
silent.

The faint but penetrating pulse of an electric bell could now be heard in the corridor. Old
Mrs. Paley, having woken hungry but without her spectacles, was summoning her maid to find
the biscuit-box. The maid having answered the bell, drearily respectful even at this hour though
muffled in a mackintosh, the passage was left in silence. Downstairs all was empty and dark;
but on the upper floor a light still burnt in the room where the boots had dropped so heavily
above Miss Allan's head. Here was the gentleman who, a few hours previously, in the shade of
the curtain, had seemed to consist entirely of legs. Deep in an arm-chair he was reading the
third volume of Gibbon's History of the Decline and Fall of Rome by candle-light. As he read
he knocked the ash automatically, now and again, from his cigarette and turned the page, while
a whole procession of splendid sentences entered his capacious brow and went marching through
his brain in order. It seemed likely that this process might continue for an hour or more,
until the entire regiment had shifted its quarters, had not the door opened, and the young
man, who was inclined to be stout, come in with large naked feet.

"Oh, Hirst, what I forgot to say was--"

"Two minutes," said Hirst, raising his finger.

He safely stowed away the last words of the paragraph.

"What was it you forgot to say?" he asked.

"D'you think you do make enough allowance for feelings?" asked Mr. Hewet. He had again forgotten
what he had meant to say.

After intense contemplation of the immaculate Gibbon Mr. Hirst smiled at the question of his
friend. He laid aside his book and considered.

"I should call yours a singularly untidy mind," he observed. "Feelings? Aren't they just what
we do allow for? We put love up there, and all the rest somewhere down below." With his left
hand he indicated the top of a pyramid, and with his right the base.

"But you didn't get out of bed to tell me that," he added severely.

"I got out of bed," said Hewet vaguely, "merely to talk I suppose."

"Meanwhile I shall undress," said Hirst. When naked of all but his shirt, and bent over the
basin, Mr. Hirst no longer impressed one with the majesty of his intellect, but with the pathos
of his young yet ugly body, for he stooped, and he was so thin that there were dark lines between
the different bones of his neck and shoulders.

"Women interest me," said Hewet, who, sitting on the bed with his chin resting on his knees,
paid no attention to the undressing of Mr. Hirst.

"They're so stupid," said Hirst. "You're sitting on my pyjamas."

"I suppose they are stupid?" Hewet wondered.

"There can't be two opinions about that, I imagine," said Hirst, hopping briskly across the
room, "unless you're in love--that fat woman Warrington?" he enquired.

"Not one fat woman--all fat women," Hewet sighed.

"The women I saw to-night were not fat," said Hirst, who was taking advantage of Hewet's company
to cut his toe-nails.

"Describe them," said Hewet.

"You know I can't describe things!" said Hirst. "They were much like other women, I should
think. They always are."

"No; that's where we differ," said Hewet. "I say everything's different. No two people are
in the least the same. Take you and me now."

"So I used to think once," said Hirst. "But now they're all types. Don't take us,--take this
hotel. You could draw circles round the whole lot of them, and they'd never stray outside."

("You can kill a hen by doing that"), Hewet murmured.

"Mr. Hughling Elliot, Mrs. Hughling Elliot, Miss Allan, Mr. and Mrs. Thornbury--one circle,"
Hirst continued. "Miss Warrington, Mr. Arthur Venning, Mr. Perrott, Evelyn M. another circle;
then there are a whole lot of natives; finally ourselves."

"Are we all alone in our circle?" asked Hewet.

"Quite alone," said Hirst. "You try to get out, but you can't. You only make a mess of things
by trying."

"I'm not a hen in a circle," said Hewet. "I'm a dove on a tree-top."

"I wonder if this is what they call an ingrowing toe-nail?" said Hirst, examining the big toe
on his left foot.

"I flit from branch to branch," continued Hewet. "The world is profoundly pleasant." He lay
back on the bed, upon his arms.

"I wonder if it's really nice to be as vague as you are?" asked Hirst, looking at him. "It's
the lack of continuity--that's what's so odd bout you," he went on. "At the age of twenty-seven,
which is nearly thirty, you seem to have drawn no conclusions. A party of old women excites
you still as though you were three."

Hewet contemplated the angular young man who was neatly brushing the rims of his toe-nails
into the fire-place in silence for a moment.

"I respect you, Hirst," he remarked.

"I envy you--some things," said Hirst. "One: your capacity for not thinking; two: people like
you better than they like me. Women like you, I suppose."

"I wonder whether that isn't really what matters most?" said Hewet. Lying now flat on the bed
he waved his hand in vague circles above him.

"Of course it is," said Hirst. "But that's not the difficulty. The difficulty is, isn't it,
to find an appropriate object?"

"There are no female hens in your circle?" asked Hewet.

"Not the ghost of one," said Hirst.

Although they had known each other for three years Hirst had never yet heard the true story
of Hewet's loves. In general conversation it was taken for granted that they were many, but
in private the subject was allowed to lapse. The fact that he had money enough to do no work,
and that he had left Cambridge after two terms owing to a difference with the authorities,
and had then travelled and drifted, made his life strange at many points where his friends'
lives were much of a piece.

"I don't see your circles--I don't see them," Hewet continued. "I see a thing like a teetotum
spinning in and out--knocking into things--dashing from side to side--collecting numbers--more
and more and more, till the whole place is thick with them. Round and round they go--out there,
over the rim--out of sight."

His fingers showed that the waltzing teetotums had spun over the edge of the counterpane and
fallen off the bed into infinity.

"Could you contemplate three weeks alone in this hotel?" asked Hirst, after a moment's pause.

Hewet proceeded to think.

"The truth of it is that one never is alone, and one never is in company," he concluded.

"Meaning?" said Hirst.

"Meaning? Oh, something about bubbles--auras--what d'you call 'em? You can't see my bubble;
I can't see yours; all we see of each other is a speck, like the wick in the middle of that
flame. The flame goes about with us everywhere; it's not ourselves exactly, but what we feel;
the world is short, or people mainly; all kinds of people."

"A nice streaky bubble yours must be!" said Hirst.

"And supposing my bubble could run into some one else's bubble--"

"And they both burst?" put in Hirst.

"Then--then--then--" pondered Hewet, as if to himself, "it would be an e-nor-mous world," he
said, stretching his arms to their full width, as though even so they could hardly clasp the
billowy universe, for when he was with Hirst he always felt unusually sanguine and vague.

"I don't think you altogether as foolish as I used to, Hewet," said Hirst. "You don't know
what you mean but you try to say it."

"But aren't you enjoying yourself here?" asked Hewet.

"On the whole--yes," said Hirst. "I like observing people. I like looking at things. This country
is amazingly beautiful. Did you notice how the top of the mountain turned yellow to-night?
Really we must take our lunch and spend the day out. You're getting disgustingly fat." He pointed
at the calf of Hewet's bare leg.

"We'll get up an expedition," said Hewet energetically. "We'll ask the entire hotel. We'll
hire donkeys and--"

"Oh, Lord!" said Hirst, "do shut it! I can see Miss Warrington and Miss Allan and Mrs. Elliot
and the rest squatting on the stones and quacking, 'How jolly!'"

"We'll ask Venning and Perrott and Miss Murgatroyd--every one we can lay hands on," went on
Hewet. "What's the name of the little old grasshopper with the eyeglasses? Pepper?--Pepper
shall lead us."

"Thank God, you'll never get the donkeys," said Hirst.

"I must make a note of that," said Hewet, slowly dropping his feet to the floor. "Hirst escorts
Miss Warrington; Pepper advances alone on a white ass; provisions equally distributed--or shall
we hire a mule? The matrons--there's Mrs. Paley, by Jove!--share a carriage."

"That's where you'll go wrong," said Hirst. "Putting virgins among matrons."

"How long should you think that an expedition like that would take, Hirst?" asked Hewet.

"From twelve to sixteen hours I would say," said Hirst. "The time usually occupied by a first
confinement."

"It will need considerable organisation," said Hewet. He was now padding softly round the room,
and stopped to stir the books on the table. They lay heaped one upon another.

"We shall want some poets too," he remarked. "Not Gibbon; no; d'you happen to have Modern Love
or John Donne? You see, I contemplate pauses when people get tired of looking at the view,
and then it would be nice to read something rather difficult aloud."

"Mrs. Paley will enjoy herself," said Hirst.

"Mrs. Paley will enjoy it certainly," said Hewet. "It's one of the saddest things I know--the
way elderly ladies cease to read poetry. And yet how appropriate this is:

     I speak as one who plumbs
       Life's dim profound,
     One who at length can sound
       Clear views and certain.

     But--after love what comes?
     A scene that lours,
       A few sad vacant hours,
       And then, the Curtain.

I daresay Mrs. Paley is the only one of us who can really understand that."

"We'll ask her," said Hirst. "Please, Hewet, if you must go to bed, draw my curtain. Few things
distress me more than the moonlight."

Hewet retreated, pressing the poems of Thomas Hardy beneath his arm, and in their beds next
door to each other both the young men were soon asleep.

Between the extinction of Hewet's candle and the rising of a dusky Spanish boy who was the
first to survey the desolation of the hotel in the early morning, a few hours of silence intervened.
One could almost hear a hundred people breathing deeply, and however wakeful and restless it
would have been hard to escape sleep in the middle of so much sleep. Looking out of the windows,
there was only darkness to be seen. All over the shadowed half of the world people lay prone,
and a few flickering lights in empty streets marked the places where their cities were built.
Red and yellow omnibuses were crowding each other in Piccadilly; sumptuous women were rocking
at a standstill; but here in the darkness an owl flitted from tree to tree, and when the breeze
lifted the branches the moon flashed as if it were a torch. Until all people should awake again
the houseless animals were abroad, the tigers and the stags, and the elephants coming down
in the darkness to drink at pools. The wind at night blowing over the hills and woods was purer
and fresher than the wind by day, and the earth, robbed of detail, more mysterious than the
earth coloured and divided by roads and fields. For six hours this profound beauty existed,
and then as the east grew whiter and whiter the ground swam to the surface, the roads were
revealed, the smoke rose and the people stirred, and the sun shone upon the windows of the
hotel at Santa Marina until they were uncurtained, and the gong blaring all through the house
gave notice of breakfast.

Directly breakfast was over, the ladies as usual circled vaguely, picking up papers and putting
them down again, about the hall.

"And what are you going to do to-day?" asked Mrs. Elliot drifting up against Miss Warrington.

Mrs. Elliot, the wife of Hughling the Oxford Don, was a short woman, whose expression was habitually
plaintive. Her eyes moved from thing to thing as though they never found anything sufficiently
pleasant to rest upon for any length of time.

"I'm going to try to get Aunt Emma out into the town," said Susan. "She's not seen a thing yet."

"I call it so spirited of her at her age," said Mrs. Elliot, "coming all this way from her
own fireside."

"Yes, we always tell her she'll die on board ship," Susan replied. "She was born on one," she
added.

"In the old days," said Mrs. Elliot, "a great many people were. I always pity the poor women
so! We've got a lot to complain of!" She shook her head. Her eyes wandered about the table,
and she remarked irrelevantly, "The poor little Queen of Holland! Newspaper reporters practically,
one may say, at her bedroom door!"

"Were you talking of the Queen of Holland?" said the pleasant voice of Miss Allan, who was
searching for the thick pages of The Times among a litter of thin foreign sheets.

"I always envy any one who lives in such an excessively flat country," she remarked.

"How very strange!" said Mrs. Elliot. "I find a flat country so depressing."

"I'm afraid you can't be very happy here then, Miss Allan," said Susan.

"On the contrary," said Miss Allan, "I am exceedingly fond of mountains." Perceiving The Times
at some distance, she moved off to secure it.

"Well, I must find my husband," said Mrs. Elliot, fidgeting away.

"And I must go to my aunt," said Miss Warrington, and taking up the duties of the day they
moved away.

Whether the flimsiness of foreign sheets and the coarseness of their type is any proof of frivolity
and ignorance, there is no doubt that English people scarce consider news read there as news,
any more than a programme bought from a man in the street inspires confidence in what it says.
A very respectable elderly pair, having inspected the long tables of newspapers, did not think
it worth their while to read more than the headlines.

"The debate on the fifteenth should have reached us by now," Mrs. Thornbury murmured. Mr. Thornbury,
who was beautifully clean and had red rubbed into his handsome worn face like traces of paint
on a weather-beaten wooden figure, looked over his glasses and saw that Miss Allan had The Times.

The couple therefore sat themselves down in arm-chairs and waited.

"Ah, there's Mr. Hewet," said Mrs. Thornbury. "Mr. Hewet," she continued, "do come and sit
by us. I was telling my husband how much you reminded me of a dear old friend of mine--Mary
Umpleby. She was a most delightful woman, I assure you. She grew roses. We used to stay with
her in the old days."

"No young man likes to have it said that he resembles an elderly spinster," said Mr. Thornbury.

"On the contrary," said Mr. Hewet, "I always think it a compliment to remind people of some
one else. But Miss Umpleby--why did she grow roses?"

"Ah, poor thing," said Mrs. Thornbury, "that's a long story. She had gone through dreadful
sorrows. At one time I think she would have lost her senses if it hadn't been for her garden.
The soil was very much against her--a blessing in disguise; she had to be up at dawn--out in
all weathers. And then there are creatures that eat roses. But she triumphed. She always did.
She was a brave soul." She sighed deeply but at the same time with resignation.

"I did not realise that I was monopolising the paper," said Miss Allan, coming up to them.

"We were so anxious to read about the debate," said Mrs. Thornbury, accepting it on behalf
of her husband.

"One doesn't realise how interesting a debate can be until one has sons in the navy. My interests
are equally balanced, though; I have sons in the army too; and one son who makes speeches at
the Union--my baby!"

"Hirst would know him, I expect," said Hewet.

"Mr. Hirst has such an interesting face," said Mrs. Thornbury. "But I feel one ought to be
very clever to talk to him. Well, William?" she enquired, for Mr. Thornbury grunted.

"They're making a mess of it," said Mr. Thornbury. He had reached the second column of the
report, a spasmodic column, for the Irish members had been brawling three weeks ago at Westminster
over a question of naval efficiency. After a disturbed paragraph or two, the column of print
once more ran smoothly.

"You have read it?" Mrs. Thornbury asked Miss Allan.

"No, I am ashamed to say I have only read about the discoveries in Crete," said Miss Allan.

"Oh, but I would give so much to realise the ancient world!" cried Mrs. Thornbury. "Now that
we old people are alone,--we're on our second honeymoon,--I am really going to put myself to
school again. After all we are founded on the past, aren't we, Mr. Hewet? My soldier son says
that there is still a great deal to be learnt from Hannibal. One ought to know so much more
than one does. Somehow when I read the paper, I begin with the debates first, and, before I've
done, the door always opens--we're a very large party at home--and so one never does think
enough about the ancients and all they've done for us. But you begin at the beginning, Miss Allan."

"When I think of the Greeks I think of them as naked black men," said Miss Allan, "which is
quite incorrect, I'm sure."

"And you, Mr. Hirst?" said Mrs. Thornbury, perceiving that the gaunt young man was near. "I'm
sure you read everything."

"I confine myself to cricket and crime," said Hirst. "The worst of coming from the upper classes,"
he continued, "is that one's friends are never killed in railway accidents."

Mr. Thornbury threw down the paper, and emphatically dropped his eyeglasses. The sheets fell
in the middle of the group, and were eyed by them all.

"It's not gone well?" asked his wife solicitously.

Hewet picked up one sheet and read, "A lady was walking yesterday in the streets of Westminster
when she perceived a cat in the window of a deserted house. The famished animal--"

"I shall be out of it anyway," Mr. Thornbury interrupted peevishly.

"Cats are often forgotten," Miss Allan remarked.

"Remember, William, the Prime Minister has reserved his answer," said Mrs. Thornbury.

"At the age of eighty, Mr. Joshua Harris of Eeles Park, Brondesbury, has had a son," said Hirst.

". . . The famished animal, which had been noticed by workmen for some days, was rescued, but--by
Jove! it bit the man's hand to pieces!"

"Wild with hunger, I suppose," commented Miss Allan.

"You're all neglecting the chief advantage of being abroad," said Mr. Hughling Elliot, who
had joined the group. "You might read your news in French, which is equivalent to reading no
news at all."

Mr. Elliot had a profound knowledge of Coptic, which he concealed as far as possible, and quoted
French phrases so exquisitely that it was hard to believe that he could also speak the ordinary
tongue. He had an immense respect for the French.

"Coming?" he asked the two young men. "We ought to start before it's really hot."

"I beg of you not to walk in the heat, Hugh," his wife pleaded, giving him an angular parcel
enclosing half a chicken and some raisins.

"Hewet will be our barometer," said Mr. Elliot. "He will melt before I shall." Indeed, if so
much as a drop had melted off his spare ribs, the bones would have lain bare. The ladies were
left alone now, surrounding The Times which lay upon the floor. Miss Allan looked at her father's
watch.

"Ten minutes to eleven," she observed.

"Work?" asked Mrs. Thornbury.

"Work," replied Miss Allan.

"What a fine creature she is!" murmured Mrs. Thornbury, as the square figure in its manly coat
withdrew.

"And I'm sure she has a hard life," sighed Mrs. Elliot.

"Oh, it is a hard life," said Mrs. Thornbury. "Unmarried women--earning their livings--it's
the hardest life of all."

"Yet she seems pretty cheerful," said Mrs. Elliot.

"It must be very interesting," said Mrs. Thornbury. "I envy her her knowledge."

"But that isn't what women want," said Mrs. Elliot.

"I'm afraid it's all a great many can hope to have," sighed Mrs. Thornbury. "I believe that
there are more of us than ever now. Sir Harley Lethbridge was telling me only the other day
how difficult it is to find boys for the navy--partly because of their teeth, it is true. And
I have heard young women talk quite openly of--"

"Dreadful, dreadful!" exclaimed Mrs. Elliot. "The crown, as one may call it, of a woman's life.
I, who know what it is to be childless--" she sighed and ceased.

"But we must not be hard," said Mrs. Thornbury. "The conditions are so much changed since I
was a young woman."

"Surely maternity does not change," said Mrs. Elliot.

"In some ways we can learn a great deal from the young," said Mrs. Thornbury. "I learn so much
from my own daughters."

"I believe that Hughling really doesn't mind," said Mrs. Elliot. "But then he has his work."

"Women without children can do so much for the children of others," observed Mrs. Thornbury gently.

"I sketch a great deal," said Mrs. Elliot, "but that isn't really an occupation. It's so disconcerting
to find girls just beginning doing better than one does oneself! And nature's difficult--very
difficult!"

"Are there not institutions--clubs--that you could help?" asked Mrs. Thornbury.

"They are so exhausting," said Mrs. Elliot. "I look strong, because of my colour; but I'm not;
the youngest of eleven never is."

"If the mother is careful before," said Mrs. Thornbury judicially, "there is no reason why
the size of the family should make any difference. And there is no training like the training
that brothers and sisters give each other. I am sure of that. I have seen it with my own children.
My eldest boy Ralph, for instance--"

But Mrs. Elliot was inattentive to the elder lady's experience, and her eyes wandered about
the hall.

"My mother had two miscarriages, I know," she said suddenly. "The first because she met one
of those great dancing bears--they shouldn't be allowed; the other--it was a horrid story--our
cook had a child and there was a dinner party. So I put my dyspepsia down to that."

"And a miscarriage is so much worse than a confinement," Mrs. Thornbury murmured absentmindedly,
adjusting her spectacles and picking up The Times. Mrs. Elliot rose and fluttered away.

When she had heard what one of the million voices speaking in the paper had to say, and noticed
that a cousin of hers had married a clergyman at Minehead--ignoring the drunken women, the
golden animals of Crete, the movements of battalions, the dinners, the reforms, the fires,
the indignant, the learned and benevolent, Mrs. Thornbury went upstairs to write a letter for
the mail.

The paper lay directly beneath the clock, the two together seeming to represent stability in
a changing world. Mr. Perrott passed through; Mr. Venning poised for a second on the edge of
a table. Mrs. Paley was wheeled past. Susan followed. Mr. Venning strolled after her. Portuguese
military families, their clothes suggesting late rising in untidy bedrooms, trailed across,
attended by confidential nurses carrying noisy children. As midday drew on, and the sun beat
straight upon the roof, an eddy of great flies droned in a circle; iced drinks were served
under the palms; the long blinds were pulled down with a shriek, turning all the light yellow.
The clock now had a silent hall to tick in, and an audience of four or five somnolent merchants.
By degrees white figures with shady hats came in at the door, admitting a wedge of the hot
summer day, and shutting it out again. After resting in the dimness for a minute, they went
upstairs. Simultaneously, the clock wheezed one, and the gong sounded, beginning softly, working
itself into a frenzy, and ceasing. There was a pause. Then all those who had gone upstairs
came down; cripples came, planting both feet on the same step lest they should slip; prim little
girls came, holding the nurse's finger; fat old men came still buttoning waistcoats. The gong
had been sounded in the garden, and by degrees recumbent figures rose and strolled in to eat,
since the time had come for them to feed again. There were pools and bars of shade in the garden
even at midday, where two or three visitors could lie working or talking at their ease.

Owing to the heat of the day, luncheon was generally a silent meal, when people observed their
neighbors and took stock of any new faces there might be, hazarding guesses as to who they
were and what they did. Mrs. Paley, although well over seventy and crippled in the legs, enjoyed
her food and the peculiarities of her fellow-beings. She was seated at a small table with Susan.

"I shouldn't like to say what she is!" she chuckled, surveying a tall woman dressed conspicuously
in white, with paint in the hollows of her cheeks, who was always late, and always attended
by a shabby female follower, at which remark Susan blushed, and wondered why her aunt said
such things.

Lunch went on methodically, until each of the seven courses was left in fragments and the fruit
was merely a toy, to be peeled and sliced as a child destroys a daisy, petal by petal. The
food served as an extinguisher upon any faint flame of the human spirit that might survive
the midday heat, but Susan sat in her room afterwards, turning over and over the delightful
fact that Mr. Venning had come to her in the garden, and had sat there quite half an hour while
she read aloud to her aunt. Men and women sought different corners where they could lie unobserved,
and from two to four it might be said without exaggeration that the hotel was inhabited by
bodies without souls. Disastrous would have been the result if a fire or a death had suddenly
demanded something heroic of human nature, but tragedies come in the hungry hours. Towards
four o'clock the human spirit again began to lick the body, as a flame licks a black promontory
of coal. Mrs. Paley felt it unseemly to open her toothless jaw so widely, though there was
no one near, and Mrs. Elliot surveyed her found flushed face anxiously in the looking-glass.

Half an hour later, having removed the traces of sleep, they met each other in the hall, and
Mrs. Paley observed that she was going to have her tea.

"You like your tea too, don't you?" she said, and invited Mrs. Elliot, whose husband was still
out, to join her at a special table which she had placed for her under a tree.

"A little silver goes a long way in this country," she chuckled.

She sent Susan back to fetch another cup.

"They have such excellent biscuits here," she said, contemplating a plateful. "Not sweet biscuits,
which I don't like--dry biscuits . . . Have you been sketching?"

"Oh, I've done two or three little daubs," said Mrs. Elliot, speaking rather louder than usual.
"But it's so difficult after Oxfordshire, where there are so many trees. The light's so strong
here. Some people admire it, I know, but I find it very fatiguing."

"I really don't need cooking, Susan," said Mrs. Paley, when her niece returned. "I must trouble
you to move me." Everything had to be moved. Finally the old lady was placed so that the light
wavered over her, as though she were a fish in a net. Susan poured out tea, and was just remarking
that they were having hot weather in Wiltshire too, when Mr. Venning asked whether he might
join them.

"It's so nice to find a young man who doesn't despise tea," said Mrs. Paley, regaining her
good humour. "One of my nephews the other day asked for a glass of sherry--at five o'clock!
I told him he could get it at the public house round the corner, but not in my drawing room."

"I'd rather go without lunch than tea," said Mr. Venning. "That's not strictly true. I want both."

Mr. Venning was a dark young man, about thirty-two years of age, very slapdash and confident
in his manner, although at this moment obviously a little excited. His friend Mr. Perrott was
a barrister, and as Mr. Perrott refused to go anywhere without Mr. Venning it was necessary,
when Mr. Perrott came to Santa Marina about a Company, for Mr. Venning to come too. He was
a barrister also, but he loathed a profession which kept him indoors over books, and directly
his widowed mother died he was going, so he confided to Susan, to take up flying seriously,
and become partner in a large business for making aeroplanes. The talk rambled on. It dealt,
of course, with the beauties and singularities of the place, the streets, the people, and the
quantities of unowned yellow dogs.

"Don't you think it dreadfully cruel the way they treat dogs in this country?" asked Mrs. Paley.

"I'd have 'em all shot," said Mr. Venning.

"Oh, but the darling puppies," said Susan.

"Jolly little chaps," said Mr. Venning. "Look here, you've got nothing to eat." A great wedge
of cake was handed Susan on the point of a trembling knife. Her hand trembled too as she took it.

"I have such a dear dog at home," said Mrs. Elliot.

"My parrot can't stand dogs," said Mrs. Paley, with the air of one making a confidence. "I
always suspect that he (or she) was teased by a dog when I was abroad."

"You didn't get far this morning, Miss Warrington," said Mr. Venning.

"It was hot," she answered. Their conversation became private, owing to Mrs. Paley's deafness
and the long sad history which Mrs. Elliot had embarked upon of a wire-haired terrier, white
with just one black spot, belonging to an uncle of hers, which had committed suicide. "Animals
do commit suicide," she sighed, as if she asserted a painful fact.

"Couldn't we explore the town this evening?" Mr. Venning suggested.

"My aunt--" Susan began.

"You deserve a holiday," he said. "You're always doing things for other people."

"But that's my life," she said, under cover of refilling the teapot.

"That's no one's life," he returned, "no young person's. You'll come?"

"I should like to come," she murmured.

At this moment Mrs. Elliot looked up and exclaimed, "Oh, Hugh! He's bringing some one," she added.

"He would like some tea," said Mrs. Paley. "Susan, run and get some cups--there are the two
young men."

"We're thirsting for tea," said Mr. Elliot. "You know Mr. Ambrose, Hilda? We met on the hill."

"He dragged me in," said Ridley, "or I should have been ashamed. I'm dusty and dirty and disagreeable."
He pointed to his boots which were white with dust, while a dejected flower drooping in his
buttonhole, like an exhausted animal over a gate, added to the effect of length and untidiness.
He was introduced to the others. Mr. Hewet and Mr. Hirst brought chairs, and tea began again,
Susan pouring cascades of water from pot to pot, always cheerfully, and with the competence
of long use.

"My wife's brother," Ridley explained to Hilda, whom he failed to remember, "has a house here,
which he has lent us. I was sitting on a rock thinking of nothing at all when Elliot started
up like a fairy in a pantomime."

"Our chicken got into the salt," Hewet said dolefully to Susan. "Nor is it true that bananas
include moisture as well as sustenance."

Hirst was already drinking.

"We've been cursing you," said Ridley in answer to Mrs. Elliot's kind enquiries about his wife.
"You tourists eat up all the eggs, Helen tells me. That's an eye-sore too"--he nodded his head
at the hotel. "Disgusting luxury, I call it. We live with pigs in the drawing-room."

"The food is not at all what it ought to be, considering the price," said Mrs. Paley seriously.
"But unless one goes to a hotel where is one to go to?"

"Stay at home," said Ridley. "I often wish I had! Everyone ought to stay at home. But, of course,
they won't."

Mrs. Paley conceived a certain grudge against Ridley, who seemed to be criticising her habits
after an acquaintance of five minutes.

"I believe in foreign travel myself," she stated, "if one knows one's native land, which I
think I can honestly say I do. I should not allow any one to travel until they had visited
Kent and Dorsetshire--Kent for the hops, and Dorsetshire for its old stone cottages. There
is nothing to compare with them here."

"Yes--I always think that some people like the flat and other people like the downs," said
Mrs. Elliot rather vaguely.

Hirst, who had been eating and drinking without interruption, now lit a cigarette, and observed,
"Oh, but we're all agreed by this time that nature's a mistake. She's either very ugly, appallingly
uncomfortable, or absolutely terrifying. I don't know which alarms me most--a cow or a tree.
I once met a cow in a field by night. The creature looked at me. I assure you it turned my
hair grey. It's a disgrace that the animals should be allowed to go at large."

"And what did the cow think of him?" Venning mumbled to Susan, who immediately decided in her
own mind that Mr. Hirst was a dreadful young man, and that although he had such an air of being
clever he probably wasn't as clever as Arthur, in the ways that really matter.

"Wasn't it Wilde who discovered the fact that nature makes no allowance for hip-bones?" enquired
Hughling Elliot. He knew by this time exactly what scholarships and distinction Hirst enjoyed,
and had formed a very high opinion of his capacities.

But Hirst merely drew his lips together very tightly and made no reply.

Ridley conjectured that it was now permissible for him to take his leave. Politeness required
him to thank Mrs. Elliot for his tea, and to add, with a wave of his hand, "You must come up
and see us."

The wave included both Hirst and Hewet, and Hewet answered, "I should like it immensely."

The party broke up, and Susan, who had never felt so happy in her life, was just about to start
for her walk in the town with Arthur, when Mrs. Paley beckoned her back. She could not understand
from the book how Double Demon patience is played; and suggested that if they sat down and
worked it out together it would fill up the time nicely before dinner.

Chapter X

Among the promises which Mrs. Ambrose had made her niece should she stay was a room cut off
from the rest of the house, large, private--a room in which she could play, read, think, defy
the world, a fortress as well as a sanctuary. Rooms, she knew, became more like worlds than
rooms at the age of twenty-four. Her judgment was correct, and when she shut the door Rachel
entered an enchanted place, where the poets sang and things fell into their right proportions.
Some days after the vision of the hotel by night she was sitting alone, sunk in an arm-chair,
reading a brightly-covered red volume lettered on the back Works of Henrik Ibsen. Music was
open on the piano, and books of music rose in two jagged pillars on the floor; but for the
moment music was deserted.

Far from looking bored or absent-minded, her eyes were concentrated almost sternly upon the
page, and from her breathing, which was slow but repressed, it could be seen that her whole
body was constrained by the working of her mind. At last she shut the book sharply, lay back,
and drew a deep breath, expressive of the wonder which always marks the transition from the
imaginary world to the real world.

"What I want to know," she said aloud, "is this: What is the truth? What's the truth of it
all?" She was speaking partly as herself, and partly as the heroine of the play she had just
read. The landscape outside, because she had seen nothing but print for the space of two hours,
now appeared amazingly solid and clear, but although there were men on the hill washing the
trunks of olive trees with a white liquid, for the moment she herself was the most vivid thing
in it--an heroic statue in the middle of the foreground, dominating the view. Ibsen's plays
always left her in that condition. She acted them for days at a time, greatly to Helen's amusement;
and then it would be Meredith's turn and she became Diana of the Crossways. But Helen was aware
that it was not all acting, and that some sort of change was taking place in the human being.
When Rachel became tired of the rigidity of her pose on the back of the chair, she turned round,
slid comfortably down into it, and gazed out over the furniture through the window opposite
which opened on the garden. (Her mind wandered away from Nora, but she went on thinking of
things that the book suggested to her, of women and life.)

During the three months she had been here she had made up considerably, as Helen meant she
should, for time spent in interminable walks round sheltered gardens, and the household gossip
of her aunts. But Mrs. Ambrose would have been the first to disclaim any influence, or indeed
any belief that to influence was within her power. She saw her less shy, and less serious,
which was all to the good, and the violent leaps and the interminable mazes which had led to
that result were usually not even guessed at by her. Talk was the medicine she trusted to,
talk about everything, talk that was free, unguarded, and as candid as a habit of talking with
men made natural in her own case. Nor did she encourage those habits of unselfishness and amiability
founded upon insincerity which are put at so high a value in mixed households of men and women.
She desired that Rachel should think, and for this reason offered books and discouraged too
entire a dependence upon Bach and Beethoven and Wagner. But when Mrs. Ambrose would have suggested
Defoe, Maupassant, or some spacious chronicle of family life, Rachel chose modern books, books
in shiny yellow covers, books with a great deal of gilding on the back, which were tokens in
her aunt's eyes of harsh wrangling and disputes about facts which had no such importance as
the moderns claimed for them. But she did not interfere. Rachel read what she chose, reading
with the curious literalness of one to whom written sentences are unfamiliar, and handling
words as though they were made of wood, separately of great importance, and possessed of shapes
like tables or chairs. In this way she came to conclusions, which had to be remodelled according
to the adventures of the day, and were indeed recast as liberally as any one could desire,
leaving always a small grain of belief behind them.

Ibsen was succeeded by a novel such as Mrs. Ambrose detested, whose purpose was to distribute
the guilt of a woman's downfall upon the right shoulders; a purpose which was achieved, if
the reader's discomfort were any proof of it. She threw the book down, looked out of the window,
turned away from the window, and relapsed into an arm-chair.

The morning was hot, and the exercise of reading left her mind contracting and expanding like
the main-spring of a clock, and the small noises of midday, which one can ascribe to no definite
cause, in a regular rhythm. It was all very real, very big, very impersonal, and after a moment
or two she began to raise her first finger and to let it fall on the arm of her chair so as
to bring back to herself some consciousness of her own existence. She was next overcome by
the unspeakable queerness of the fact that she should be sitting in an arm-chair, in the morning,
in the middle of the world. Who were the people moving in the house--moving things from one
place to another? And life, what was that? It was only a light passing over the surface and
vanishing, as in time she would vanish, though the furniture in the room would remain. Her
dissolution became so complete that she could not raise her finger any more, and sat perfectly
still, listening and looking always at the same spot. It became stranger and stranger. She
was overcome with awe that things should exist at all. . . . She forgot that she had any fingers
to raise. . . . The things that existed were so immense and so desolate. . . . She continued
to be conscious of these vast masses of substance for a long stretch of time, the clock still
ticking in the midst of the universal silence.

"Come in," she said mechanically, for a string in her brain seemed to be pulled by a persistent
knocking at the door. With great slowness the door opened and a tall human being came towards
her, holding out her arm and saying:

"What am I to say to this?"

The utter absurdity of a woman coming into a room with a piece of paper in her hand amazed Rachel.

"I don't know what to answer, or who Terence Hewet is," Helen continued, in the toneless voice
of a ghost. She put a paper before Rachel on which were written the incredible words:

DEAR MRS. AMBROSE--I am getting up a picnic for next Friday, when we propose to start at eleven-thirty
if the weather is fine, and to make the ascent of Monte Rosa. It will take some time, but the
view should be magnificent. It would give me great pleasure if you and Miss Vinrace would consent
to be of the party.--

Yours sincerely, TERENCE HEWET

Rachel read the words aloud to make herself believe in them. For the same reason she put her
hand on Helen's shoulder.

"Books--books--books," said Helen, in her absent-minded way. "More new books--I wonder what
you find in them. . . ."

For the second time Rachel read the letter, but to herself. This time, instead of seeming vague
as ghosts, each word was astonishingly prominent; they came out as the tops of mountains come
through a mist. Friday--eleven-thirty--Miss Vinrace. The blood began to run in her veins; she
felt her eyes brighten.

"We must go," she said, rather surprising Helen by her decision. "We must certainly go"--such
was the relief of finding that things still happened, and indeed they appeared the brighter
for the mist surrounding them.

"Monte Rosa--that's the mountain over there, isn't it?" said Helen; "but Hewet--who's he? One
of the young men Ridley met, I suppose. Shall I say yes, then? It may be dreadfully dull."

She took the letter back and went, for the messenger was waiting for her answer.

The party which had been suggested a few nights ago in Mr. Hirst's bedroom had taken shape
and was the source of great satisfaction to Mr. Hewet, who had seldom used his practical abilities,
and was pleased to find them equal to the strain. His invitations had been universally accepted,
which was the more encouraging as they had been issued against Hirst's advice to people who
were very dull, not at all suited to each other, and sure not to come.

"Undoubtedly," he said, as he twirled and untwirled a note signed Helen Ambrose, "the gifts
needed to make a great commander have been absurdly overrated. About half the intellectual
effort which is needed to review a book of modern poetry has enabled me to get together seven
or eight people, of opposite sexes, at the same spot at the same hour on the same day. What
else is generalship, Hirst? What more did Wellington do on the field of Waterloo? It's like
counting the number of pebbles of a path, tedious but not difficult."

He was sitting in his bedroom, one leg over the arm of the chair, and Hirst was writing a letter
opposite. Hirst was quick to point out that all the difficulties remained.

"For instance, here are two women you've never seen. Suppose one of them suffers from mountain-sickness,
as my sister does, and the other--"

"Oh, the women are for you," Hewet interrupted. "I asked them solely for your benefit. What
you want, Hirst, you know, is the society of young women of your own age. You don't know how
to get on with women, which is a great defect, considering that half the world consists of women."

Hirst groaned that he was quite aware of that.

But Hewet's complacency was a little chilled as he walked with Hirst to the place where a general
meeting had been appointed. He wondered why on earth he had asked these people, and what one
really expected to get from bunching human beings up together.

"Cows," he reflected, "draw together in a field; ships in a calm; and we're just the same when
we've nothing else to do. But why do we do it?--is it to prevent ourselves from seeing to the
bottom of things" (he stopped by a stream and began stirring it with his walking-stick and
clouding the water with mud), "making cities and mountains and whole universes out of nothing,
or do we really love each other, or do we, on the other hand, live in a state of perpetual
uncertainty, knowing nothing, leaping from moment to moment as from world to world?--which
is, on the whole, the view I incline to."

He jumped over the stream; Hirst went round and joined him, remarking that he had long ceased
to look for the reason of any human action.

Half a mile further, they came to a group of plane trees and the salmon-pink farmhouse standing
by the stream which had been chosen as meeting-place. It was a shady spot, lying conveniently
just where the hill sprung out from the flat. Between the thin stems of the plane trees the
young men could see little knots of donkeys pasturing, and a tall woman rubbing the nose of
one of them, while another woman was kneeling by the stream lapping water out of her palms.

As they entered the shady place, Helen looked up and then held out her hand.

"I must introduce myself," she said. "I am Mrs. Ambrose."

Having shaken hands, she said, "That's my niece."

Rachel approached awkwardly. She held out her hand, but withdrew it. "It's all wet," she said.

Scarcely had they spoken, when the first carriage drew up.

The donkeys were quickly jerked into attention, and the second carriage arrived. By degrees
the grove filled with people--the Elliots, the Thornburys, Mr. Venning and Susan, Miss Allan,
Evelyn Murgatroyd, and Mr. Perrott. Mr. Hirst acted the part of hoarse energetic sheep-dog.
By means of a few words of caustic Latin he had the animals marshalled, and by inclining a
sharp shoulder he lifted the ladies. "What Hewet fails to understand," he remarked, "is that
we must break the back of the ascent before midday." He was assisting a young lady, by name
Evelyn Murgatroyd, as he spoke. She rose light as a bubble to her seat. With a feather drooping
from a broad-brimmed hat, in white from top to toe, she looked like a gallant lady of the time
of Charles the First leading royalist troops into action.

"Ride with me," she commanded; and, as soon as Hirst had swung himself across a mule, the two
started, leading the cavalcade.

"You're not to call me Miss Murgatroyd. I hate it," she said. "My name's Evelyn. What's yours?"

"St. John," he said.

"I like that," said Evelyn. "And what's your friend's name?"

"His initials being R. S. T., we call him Monk," said Hirst.

"Oh, you're all too clever," she said. "Which way? Pick me a branch. Let's canter."

She gave her donkey a sharp cut with a switch and started forward. The full and romantic career
of Evelyn Murgatroyd is best hit off by her own words, "Call me Evelyn and I'll call you St.
John." She said that on very slight provocation--her surname was enough--but although a great
many young men had answered her already with considerable spirit she went on saying it and
making choice of none. But her donkey stumbled to a jog-trot, and she had to ride in advance
alone, for the path when it began to ascend one of the spines of the hill became narrow and
scattered with stones. The cavalcade wound on like a jointed caterpillar, tufted with the white
parasols of the ladies, and the panama hats of the gentlemen. At one point where the ground
rose sharply, Evelyn M. jumped off, threw her reins to the native boy, and adjured St. John
Hirst to dismount too. Their example was followed by those who felt the need of stretching.

"I don't see any need to get off," said Miss Allan to Mrs. Elliot just behind her, "considering
the difficulty I had getting on."

"These little donkeys stand anything, n'est-ce pas?" Mrs. Elliot addressed the guide, who obligingly
bowed his head.

"Flowers," said Helen, stooping to pick the lovely little bright flowers which grew separately
here and there. "You pinch their leaves and then they smell," she said, laying one on Miss
Allan's knee.

"Haven't we met before?" asked Miss Allan, looking at her.

"I was taking it for granted," Helen laughed, for in the confusion of meeting they had not
been introduced.

"How sensible!" chirped Mrs. Elliot. "That's just what one would always like--only unfortunately
it's not possible." "Not possible?" said Helen. "Everything's possible. Who knows what mayn't
happen before night-fall?" she continued, mocking the poor lady's timidity, who depended implicitly
upon one thing following another that the mere glimpse of a world where dinner could be disregarded,
or the table moved one inch from its accustomed place, filled her with fears for her own stability.

Higher and higher they went, becoming separated from the world. The world, when they turned
to look back, flattened itself out, and was marked with squares of thin green and grey.

"Towns are very small," Rachel remarked, obscuring the whole of Santa Marina and its suburbs
with one hand. The sea filled in all the angles of the coast smoothly, breaking in a white
frill, and here and there ships were set firmly in the blue. The sea was stained with purple
and green blots, and there was a glittering line upon the rim where it met the sky. The air
was very clear and silent save for the sharp noise of grasshoppers and the hum of bees, which
sounded loud in the ear as they shot past and vanished. The party halted and sat for a time
in a quarry on the hillside.

"Amazingly clear," exclaimed St. John, identifying one cleft in the land after another.

Evelyn M. sat beside him, propping her chin on her hand. She surveyed the view with a certain
look of triumph.

"D'you think Garibaldi was ever up here?" she asked Mr. Hirst. Oh, if she had been his bride!
If, instead of a picnic party, this was a party of patriots, and she, red-shirted like the
rest, had lain among grim men, flat on the turf, aiming her gun at the white turrets beneath
them, screening her eyes to pierce through the smoke! So thinking, her foot stirred restlessly,
and she exclaimed:

"I don't call this life, do you?"

"What do you call life?" said St. John.

"Fighting--revolution," she said, still gazing at the doomed city. "You only care for books,
I know."

"You're quite wrong," said St. John.

"Explain," she urged, for there were no guns to be aimed at bodies, and she turned to another
kind of warfare.

"What do I care for? People," he said.

"Well, I am surprised!" she exclaimed. "You look so awfully serious. Do let's be friends and
tell each other what we're like. I hate being cautious, don't you?"

But St. John was decidedly cautious, as she could see by the sudden constriction of his lips,
and had no intention of revealing his soul to a young lady. "The ass is eating my hat," he
remarked, and stretched out for it instead of answering her. Evelyn blushed very slightly and
then turned with some impetuosity upon Mr. Perrott, and when they mounted again it was Mr.
Perrott who lifted her to her seat.

"When one has laid the eggs one eats the omelette," said Hughling Elliot, exquisitely in French,
a hint to the rest of them that it was time to ride on again.

The midday sun which Hirst had foretold was beginning to beat down hotly. The higher they got
the more of the sky appeared, until the mountain was only a small tent of earth against an
enormous blue background. The English fell silent; the natives who walked beside the donkeys
broke into queer wavering songs and tossed jokes from one to the other. The way grew very steep,
and each rider kept his eyes fixed on the hobbling curved form of the rider and donkey directly
in front of him. Rather more strain was being put upon their bodies than is quite legitimate
in a party of pleasure, and Hewet overheard one or two slightly grumbling remarks.

"Expeditions in such heat are perhaps a little unwise," Mrs. Elliot murmured to Miss Allan.

But Miss Allan returned, "I always like to get to the top"; and it was true, although she was
a big woman, stiff in the joints, and unused to donkey-riding, but as her holidays were few
she made the most of them.

The vivacious white figure rode well in front; she had somehow possessed herself of a leafy
branch and wore it round her hat like a garland. They went on for a few minutes in silence.

"The view will be wonderful," Hewet assured them, turning round in his saddle and smiling encouragement.
Rachel caught his eye and smiled too. They struggled on for some time longer, nothing being
heard but the clatter of hooves striving on the loose stones. Then they saw that Evelyn was
off her ass, and that Mr. Perrott was standing in the attitude of a statesman in Parliament
Square, stretching an arm of stone towards the view. A little to the left of them was a low
ruined wall, the stump of an Elizabethan watch-tower.

"I couldn't have stood it much longer," Mrs. Elliot confided to Mrs. Thornbury, but the excitement
of being at the top in another moment and seeing the view prevented any one from answering
her. One after another they came out on the flat space at the top and stood overcome with wonder.
Before them they beheld an immense space--grey sands running into forest, and forest merging
in mountains, and mountains washed by air, the infinite distances of South America. A river
ran across the plain, as flat as the land, and appearing quite as stationary. The effect of
so much space was at first rather chilling. They felt themselves very small, and for some time
no one said anything. Then Evelyn exclaimed, "Splendid!" She took hold of the hand that was
next her; it chanced to be Miss Allan's hand.

"North--South--East--West," said Miss Allan, jerking her head slightly towards the points of
the compass.

Hewet, who had gone a little in front, looked up at his guests as if to justify himself for
having brought them. He observed how strangely the people standing in a row with their figures
bent slightly forward and their clothes plastered by the wind to the shape of their bodies
resembled naked statues. On their pedestal of earth they looked unfamiliar and noble, but in
another moment they had broken their rank, and he had to see to the laying out of food. Hirst
came to his help, and they handed packets of chicken and bread from one to another.

As St. John gave Helen her packet she looked him full in the face and said:

"Do you remember--two women?"

He looked at her sharply.

"I do," he answered.

"So you're the two women!" Hewet exclaimed, looking from Helen to Rachel.

"Your lights tempted us," said Helen. "We watched you playing cards, but we never knew that
we were being watched."

"It was like a thing in a play," Rachel added.

"And Hirst couldn't describe you," said Hewet.

It was certainly odd to have seen Helen and to find nothing to say about her.

Hughling Elliot put up his eyeglass and grasped the situation.

"I don't know of anything more dreadful," he said, pulling at the joint of a chicken's leg,
"than being seen when one isn't conscious of it. One feels sure one has been caught doing something
ridiculous--looking at one's tongue in a hansom, for instance."

Now the others ceased to look at the view, and drawing together sat down in a circle round
the baskets.

"And yet those little looking-glasses in hansoms have a fascination of their own," said Mrs.
Thornbury. "One's features look so different when one can only see a bit of them."

"There will soon be very few hansom cabs left," said Mrs. Elliot. "And four-wheeled cabs--I
assure you even at Oxford it's almost impossible to get a four-wheeled cab."

"I wonder what happens to the horses," said Susan.

"Veal pie," said Arthur.

"It's high time that horses should become extinct anyhow," said Hirst. "They're distressingly
ugly, besides being vicious."

But Susan, who had been brought up to understand that the horse is the noblest of God's creatures,
could not agree, and Venning thought Hirst an unspeakable ass, but was too polite not to continue
the conversation.

"When they see us falling out of aeroplanes they get some of their own back, I expect," he
remarked.

"You fly?" said old Mr. Thornbury, putting on his spectacles to look at him.

"I hope to, some day," said Arthur.

Here flying was discussed at length, and Mrs. Thornbury delivered an opinion which was almost
a speech to the effect that it would be quite necessary in time of war, and in England we were
terribly behind-hand. "If I were a young fellow," she concluded, "I should certainly qualify."
It was odd to look at the little elderly lady, in her grey coat and skirt, with a sandwich
in her hand, her eyes lighting up with zeal as she imagined herself a young man in an aeroplane.
For some reason, however, the talk did not run easily after this, and all they said was about
drink and salt and the view. Suddenly Miss Allan, who was seated with her back to the ruined
wall, put down her sandwich, picked something off her neck, and remarked, "I'm covered with
little creatures." It was true, and the discovery was very welcome. The ants were pouring down
a glacier of loose earth heaped between the stones of the ruin--large brown ants with polished
bodies. She held out one on the back of her hand for Helen to look at.

"Suppose they sting?" said Helen.

"They will not sting, but they may infest the victuals," said Miss Allan, and measures were
taken at once to divert the ants from their course. At Hewet's suggestion it was decided to
adopt the methods of modern warfare against an invading army. The table-cloth represented the
invaded country, and round it they built barricades of baskets, set up the wine bottles in
a rampart, made fortifications of bread and dug fosses of salt. When an ant got through it
was exposed to a fire of bread-crumbs, until Susan pronounced that that was cruel, and rewarded
those brave spirits with spoil in the shape of tongue. Playing this game they lost their stiffness,
and even became unusually daring, for Mr. Perrott, who was very shy, said, "Permit me," and
removed an ant from Evelyn's neck.

"It would be no laughing matter really," said Mrs. Elliot confidentially to Mrs. Thornbury,
"if an ant did get between the vest and the skin."

The noise grew suddenly more clamorous, for it was discovered that a long line of ants had
found their way on to the table-cloth by a back entrance, and if success could be gauged by
noise, Hewet had every reason to think his party a success. Nevertheless he became, for no
reason at all, profoundly depressed.

"They are not satisfactory; they are ignoble," he thought, surveying his guests from a little
distance, where he was gathering together the plates. He glanced at them all, stooping and
swaying and gesticulating round the table-cloth. Amiable and modest, respectable in many ways,
lovable even in their contentment and desire to be kind, how mediocre they all were, and capable
of what insipid cruelty to one another! There was Mrs. Thornbury, sweet but trivial in her
maternal egoism; Mrs. Elliot, perpetually complaining of her lot; her husband a mere pea in
a pod; and Susan--she had no self, and counted neither one way nor the other; Venning was as
honest and as brutal as a schoolboy; poor old Thornbury merely trod his round like a horse
in a mill; and the less one examined into Evelyn's character the better, he suspected. Yet
these were the people with money, and to them rather than to others was given the management
of the world. Put among them some one more vital, who cared for life or for beauty, and what
an agony, what a waste would they inflict on him if he tried to share with them and not to scourge!

"There's Hirst," he concluded, coming to the figure of his friend; with his usual little frown
of concentration upon his forehead he was peeling the skin off a banana. "And he's as ugly
as sin." For the ugliness of St. John Hirst, and the limitations that went with it, he made
the rest in some way responsible. It was their fault that he had to live alone. Then he came
to Helen, attracted to her by the sound of her laugh. She was laughing at Miss Allan. "You
wear combinations in this heat?" she said in a voice which was meant to be private. He liked
the look of her immensely, not so much her beauty, but her largeness and simplicity, which
made her stand out from the rest like a great stone woman, and he passed on in a gentler mood.
His eye fell upon Rachel. She was lying back rather behind the others resting on one elbow;
she might have been thinking precisely the same thoughts as Hewet himself. Her eyes were fixed
rather sadly but not intently upon the row of people opposite her. Hewet crawled up to her
on his knees, with a piece of bread in his hand.

"What are you looking at?" he asked.

She was a little startled, but answered directly, "Human beings."

Chapter XI

One after another they rose and stretched themselves, and in a few minutes divided more or
less into two separate parties. One of these parties was dominated by Hughling Elliot and Mrs.
Thornbury, who, having both read the same books and considered the same questions, were now
anxious to name the places beneath them and to hang upon them stores of information about navies
and armies, political parties, natives and mineral products--all of which combined, they said,
to prove that South America was the country of the future.

Evelyn M. listened with her bright blue eyes fixed upon the oracles.

"How it makes one long to be a man!" she exclaimed.

Mr. Perrott answered, surveying the plain, that a country with a future was a very fine thing.

"If I were you," said Evelyn, turning to him and drawing her glove vehemently through her fingers,
"I'd raise a troop and conquer some great territory and make it splendid. You'd want women
for that. I'd love to start life from the very beginning as it ought to be--nothing squalid--but
great halls and gardens and splendid men and women. But you--you only like Law Courts!"

"And would you really be content without pretty frocks and sweets and all the things young
ladies like?" asked Mr. Perrott, concealing a certain amount of pain beneath his ironical manner.

"I'm not a young lady," Evelyn flashed; she bit her underlip. "Just because I like splendid
things you laugh at me. Why are there no men like Garibaldi now?" she demanded.

"Look here," said Mr. Perrott, "you don't give me a chance. You think we ought to begin things
fresh. Good. But I don't see precisely--conquer a territory? They're all conquered already,
aren't they?"

"It's not any territory in particular," Evelyn explained. "It's the idea, don't you see? We
lead such tame lives. And I feel sure you've got splendid things in you."

Hewet saw the scars and hollows in Mr. Perrott's sagacious face relax pathetically. He could
imagine the calculations which even then went on within his mind, as to whether he would be
justified in asking a woman to marry him, considering that he made no more than five hundred
a year at the Bar, owned no private means, and had an invalid sister to support. Mr. Perrott
again knew that he was not "quite," as Susan stated in her diary; not quite a gentleman she
meant, for he was the son of a grocer in Leeds, had started life with a basket on his back,
and now, though practically indistinguishable from a born gentleman, showed his origin to keen
eyes in an impeccable neatness of dress, lack of freedom in manner, extreme cleanliness of
person, and a certain indescribable timidity and precision with his knife and fork which might
be the relic of days when meat was rare, and the way of handling it by no means gingerly.

The two parties who were strolling about and losing their unity now came together, and joined
each other in a long stare over the yellow and green patches of the heated landscape below.
The hot air danced across it, making it impossible to see the roofs of a village on the plain
distinctly. Even on the top of the mountain where a breeze played lightly, it was very hot,
and the heat, the food, the immense space, and perhaps some less well-defined cause produced
a comfortable drowsiness and a sense of happy relaxation in them. They did not say much, but
felt no constraint in being silent.

"Suppose we go and see what's to be seen over there?" said Arthur to Susan, and the pair walked
off together, their departure certainly sending some thrill of emotion through the rest.

"An odd lot, aren't they?" said Arthur. "I thought we should never get 'em all to the top.
But I'm glad we came, by Jove! I wouldn't have missed this for something."

"I don't like Mr. Hirst," said Susan inconsequently. "I suppose he's very clever, but why should
clever people be so--I expect he's awfully nice, really," she added, instinctively qualifying
what might have seemed an unkind remark.

"Hirst? Oh, he's one of these learned chaps," said Arthur indifferently. "He don't look as
if he enjoyed it. You should hear him talking to Elliot. It's as much as I can do to follow
'em at all. . . . I was never good at my books."

With these sentences and the pauses that came between them they reached a little hillock, on
the top of which grew several slim trees.

"D'you mind if we sit down here?" said Arthur, looking about him. "It's jolly in the shade--and
the view--" They sat down, and looked straight ahead of them in silence for some time.

"But I do envy those clever chaps sometimes," Arthur remarked. "I don't suppose they ever .
. ." He did not finish his sentence.

"I can't see why you should envy them," said Susan, with great sincerity.

"Odd things happen to one," said Arthur. "One goes along smoothly enough, one thing following
another, and it's all very jolly and plain sailing, and you think you know all about it, and
suddenly one doesn't know where one is a bit, and everything seems different from what it used
to seem. Now to-day, coming up that path, riding behind you, I seemed to see everything as
if--" he paused and plucked a piece of grass up by the roots. He scattered the little lumps
of earth which were sticking to the roots--"As if it had a kind of meaning. You've made the
difference to me," he jerked out, "I don't see why I shouldn't tell you. I've felt it ever
since I knew you. . . . It's because I love you."

Even while they had been saying commonplace things Susan had been conscious of the excitement
of intimacy, which seemed not only to lay bare something in her, but in the trees and the sky,
and the progress of his speech which seemed inevitable was positively painful to her, for no
human being had ever come so close to her before.

She was struck motionless as his speech went on, and her heart gave great separate leaps at
the last words. She sat with her fingers curled round a stone, looking straight in front of
her down the mountain over the plain. So then, it had actually happened to her, a proposal
of marriage.

Arthur looked round at her; his face was oddly twisted. She was drawing her breath with such
difficulty that she could hardly answer.

"You might have known." He seized her in his arms; again and again and again they clasped each
other, murmuring inarticulately.

"Well," sighed Arthur, sinking back on the ground, "that's the most wonderful thing that's
ever happened to me." He looked as if he were trying to put things seen in a dream beside real
things.

There was a long silence.

"It's the most perfect thing in the world," Susan stated, very gently and with great conviction.
It was no longer merely a proposal of marriage, but of marriage with Arthur, with whom she
was in love.

In the silence that followed, holding his hand tightly in hers, she prayed to God that she
might make him a good wife.

"And what will Mr. Perrott say?" she asked at the end of it.

"Dear old fellow," said Arthur who, now that the first shock was over, was relaxing into an
enormous sense of pleasure and contentment. "We must be very nice to him, Susan."

He told her how hard Perrott's life had been, and how absurdly devoted he was to Arthur himself.
He went on to tell her about his mother, a widow lady, of strong character. In return Susan
sketched the portraits of her own family--Edith in particular, her youngest sister, whom she
loved better than any one else, "except you, Arthur. . . . Arthur," she continued, "what was
it that you first liked me for?"

"It was a buckle you wore one night at sea," said Arthur, after due consideration. "I remember
noticing--it's an absurd thing to notice!--that you didn't take peas, because I don't either."

From this they went on to compare their more serious tastes, or rather Susan ascertained what
Arthur cared about, and professed herself very fond of the same thing. They would live in London,
perhaps have a cottage in the country near Susan's family, for they would find it strange without
her at first. Her mind, stunned to begin with, now flew to the various changes that her engagement
would make--how delightful it would be to join the ranks of the married women--no longer to
hang on to groups of girls much younger than herself--to escape the long solitude of an old
maid's life. Now and then her amazing good fortune overcame her, and she turned to Arthur with
an exclamation of love.

They lay in each other's arms and had no notion that they were observed. Yet two figures suddenly
appeared among the trees above them. "Here's shade," began Hewet, when Rachel suddenly stopped
dead. They saw a man and woman lying on the ground beneath them, rolling slightly this way
and that as the embrace tightened and slackened. The man then sat upright and the woman, who
now appeared to be Susan Warrington, lay back upon the ground, with her eyes shut and an absorbed
look upon her face, as though she were not altogether conscious. Nor could you tell from her
expression whether she was happy, or had suffered something. When Arthur again turned to her,
butting her as a lamb butts a ewe, Hewet and Rachel retreated without a word. Hewet felt uncomfortably
shy.

"I don't like that," said Rachel after a moment.

"I can remember not liking it either," said Hewet. "I can remember--" but he changed his mind
and continued in an ordinary tone of voice, "Well, we may take it for granted that they're
engaged. D'you think he'll ever fly, or will she put a stop to that?"

But Rachel was still agitated; she could not get away from the sight they had just seen. Instead
of answering Hewet she persisted.

"Love's an odd thing, isn't it, making one's heart beat."

"It's so enormously important, you see," Hewet replied. "Their lives are now changed for ever."

"And it makes one sorry for them too," Rachel continued, as though she were tracing the course
of her feelings. "I don't know either of them, but I could almost burst into tears. That's
silly, isn't it?"

"Just because they're in love," said Hewet. "Yes," he added after a moment's consideration,
"there's something horribly pathetic about it, I agree."

And now, as they had walked some way from the grove of trees, and had come to a rounded hollow
very tempting to the back, they proceeded to sit down, and the impression of the lovers lost
some of its force, though a certain intensity of vision, which was probably the result of the
sight, remained with them. As a day upon which any emotion has been repressed is different
from other days, so this day was now different, merely because they had seen other people at
a crisis of their lives.

"A great encampment of tents they might be," said Hewet, looking in front of him at the mountains.
"Isn't it like a water-colour too--you know the way water-colours dry in ridges all across
the paper--I've been wondering what they looked like."

His eyes became dreamy, as though he were matching things, and reminded Rachel in their colour
of the green flesh of a snail. She sat beside him looking at the mountains too. When it became
painful to look any longer, the great size of the view seeming to enlarge her eyes beyond their
natural limit, she looked at the ground; it pleased her to scrutinise this inch of the soil
of South America so minutely that she noticed every grain of earth and made it into a world
where she was endowed with the supreme power. She bent a blade of grass, and set an insect
on the utmost tassel of it, and wondered if the insect realised his strange adventure, and
thought how strange it was that she should have bent that tassel rather than any other of the
million tassels.

"You've never told me you name," said Hewet suddenly. "Miss Somebody Vinrace. . . . I like
to know people's Christian names."

"Rachel," she replied.

"Rachel," he repeated. "I have an aunt called Rachel, who put the life of Father Damien into
verse. She is a religious fanatic--the result of the way she was brought up, down in Northamptonshire,
never seeing a soul. Have you any aunts?"

"I live with them," said Rachel.

"And I wonder what they're doing now?" Hewet enquired.

"They are probably buying wool," Rachel determined. She tried to describe them. "They are small,
rather pale women," she began, "very clean. We live in Richmond. They have an old dog, too,
who will only eat the marrow out of bones. . . . They are always going to church. They tidy
their drawers a good deal." But here she was overcome by the difficulty of describing people.

"It's impossible to believe that it's all going on still!" she exclaimed.

The sun was behind them and two long shadows suddenly lay upon the ground in front of them,
one waving because it was made by a skirt, and the other stationary, because thrown by a pair
of legs in trousers.

"You look very comfortable!" said Helen's voice above them.

"Hirst," said Hewet, pointing at the scissorlike shadow; he then rolled round to look up at them.

"There's room for us all here," he said.

When Hirst had seated himself comfortably, he said:

"Did you congratulate the young couple?"

It appeared that, coming to the same spot a few minutes after Hewet and Rachel, Helen and Hirst
had seen precisely the same thing.

"No, we didn't congratulate them," said Hewet. "They seemed very happy."

"Well," said Hirst, pursing up his lips, "so long as I needn't marry either of them--"

"We were very much moved," said Hewet.

"I thought you would be," said Hirst. "Which was it, Monk? The thought of the immortal passions,
or the thought of new-born males to keep the Roman Catholics out? I assure you," he said to
Helen, "he's capable of being moved by either."

Rachel was a good deal stung by his banter, which she felt to be directed equally against them
both, but she could think of no repartee.

"Nothing moves Hirst," Hewet laughed; he did not seem to be stung at all. "Unless it were a
transfinite number falling in love with a finite one--I suppose such things do happen, even
in mathematics."

"On the contrary," said Hirst with a touch of annoyance, "I consider myself a person of very
strong passions." It was clear from the way he spoke that he meant it seriously; he spoke of
course for the benefit of the ladies.

"By the way, Hirst," said Hewet, after a pause, "I have a terrible confession to make. Your
book--the poems of Wordsworth, which if you remember I took off your table just as we were
starting, and certainly put in my pocket here--"

"Is lost," Hirst finished for him.

"I consider that there is still a chance," Hewet urged, slapping himself to right and left,
"that I never did take it after all."

"No," said Hirst. "It is here." He pointed to his breast.

"Thank God," Hewet exclaimed. "I need no longer feel as though I'd murdered a child!"

"I should think you were always losing things," Helen remarked, looking at him meditatively.

"I don't lose things," said Hewet. "I mislay them. That was the reason why Hirst refused to
share a cabin with me on the voyage out."

"You came out together?" Helen enquired.

"I propose that each member of this party now gives a short biographical sketch of himself
or herself," said Hirst, sitting upright. "Miss Vinrace, you come first; begin."

Rachel stated that she was twenty-four years of age, the daughter of a ship-owner, that she
had never been properly educated; played the piano, had no brothers or sisters, and lived at
Richmond with aunts, her mother being dead.

"Next," said Hirst, having taken in these facts; he pointed at Hewet. "I am the son of an English
gentleman. I am twenty-seven," Hewet began. "My father was a fox-hunting squire. He died when
I was ten in the hunting field. I can remember his body coming home, on a shutter I suppose,
just as I was going down to tea, and noticing that there was jam for tea, and wondering whether
I should be allowed--"

"Yes; but keep to the facts," Hirst put in.

"I was educated at Winchester and Cambridge, which I had to leave after a time. I have done
a good many things since--"

"Profession?"

"None--at least--"

"Tastes?"

"Literary. I'm writing a novel."

"Brothers and sisters?"

"Three sisters, no brother, and a mother."

"Is that all we're to hear about you?" said Helen. She stated that she was very old--forty
last October, and her father had been a solicitor in the city who had gone bankrupt, for which
reason she had never had much education--they lived in one place after another--but an elder
brother used to lend her books.

"If I were to tell you everything--" she stopped and smiled. "It would take too long," she
concluded. "I married when I was thirty, and I have two children. My husband is a scholar.
And now--it's your turn," she nodded at Hirst.

"You've left out a great deal," he reproved her. "My name is St. John Alaric Hirst," he began
in a jaunty tone of voice. "I'm twenty-four years old. I'm the son of the Reverend Sidney Hirst,
vicar of Great Wappyng in Norfolk. Oh, I got scholarships everywhere--Westminster--King's.
I'm now a fellow of King's. Don't it sound dreary? Parents both alive (alas). Two brothers
and one sister. I'm a very distinguished young man," he added.

"One of the three, or is it five, most distinguished men in England," Hewet remarked.

"Quite correct," said Hirst.

"That's all very interesting," said Helen after a pause. "But of course we've left out the
only questions that matter. For instance, are we Christians?"

"I am not," "I am not," both the young men replied.

"I am," Rachel stated.

"You believe in a personal God?" Hirst demanded, turning round and fixing her with his eyeglasses.

"I believe--I believe," Rachel stammered, "I believe there are things we don't know about,
and the world might change in a minute and anything appear."

At this Helen laughed outright. "Nonsense," she said. "You're not a Christian. You've never
thought what you are.--And there are lots of other questions," she continued, "though perhaps
we can't ask them yet." Although they had talked so freely they were all uncomfortably conscious
that they really knew nothing about each other.

"The important questions," Hewet pondered, "the really interesting ones. I doubt that one ever
does ask them."

Rachel, who was slow to accept the fact that only a very few things can be said even by people
who know each other well, insisted on knowing what he meant.

"Whether we've ever been in love?" she enquired. "Is that the kind of question you mean?"

Again Helen laughed at her, benignantly strewing her with handfuls of the long tasselled grass,
for she was so brave and so foolish.

"Oh, Rachel," she cried. "It's like having a puppy in the house having you with one--a puppy
that brings one's underclothes down into the hall."

But again the sunny earth in front of them was crossed by fantastic wavering figures, the shadows
of men and women.

"There they are!" exclaimed Mrs. Elliot. There was a touch of peevishness in her voice. "And
we've had such a hunt to find you. Do you know what the time is?"

Mrs. Elliot and Mr. and Mrs. Thornbury now confronted them; Mrs. Elliot was holding out her
watch, and playfully tapping it upon the face. Hewet was recalled to the fact that this was
a party for which he was responsible, and he immediately led them back to the watch-tower,
where they were to have tea before starting home again. A bright crimson scarf fluttered from
the top of the wall, which Mr. Perrott and Evelyn were tying to a stone as the others came
up. The heat had changed just so far that instead of sitting in the shadow they sat in the
sun, which was still hot enough to paint their faces red and yellow, and to colour great sections
of the earth beneath them.

"There's nothing half so nice as tea!" said Mrs. Thornbury, taking her cup.

"Nothing," said Helen. "Can't you remember as a child chopping up hay--" she spoke much more
quickly than usual, and kept her eye fixed upon Mrs. Thornbury, "and pretending it was tea,
and getting scolded by the nurses--why I can't imagine, except that nurses are such brutes,
won't allow pepper instead of salt though there's no earthly harm in it. Weren't your nurses
just the same?"

During this speech Susan came into the group, and sat down by Helen's side. A few minutes later
Mr. Venning strolled up from the opposite direction. He was a little flushed, and in the mood
to answer hilariously whatever was said to him.

"What have you been doing to that old chap's grave?" he asked, pointing to the red flag which
floated from the top of the stones.

"We have tried to make him forget his misfortune in having died three hundred years ago," said
Mr. Perrott.

"It would be awful--to be dead!" ejaculated Evelyn M.

"To be dead?" said Hewet. "I don't think it would be awful. It's quite easy to imagine. When
you go to bed to-night fold your hands so--breathe slower and slower--" He lay back with his
hands clasped upon his breast, and his eyes shut, "Now," he murmured in an even monotonous
voice, "I shall never, never, never move again." His body, lying flat among them, did for a
moment suggest death.

"This is a horrible exhibition, Mr. Hewet!" cried Mrs. Thornbury.

"More cake for us!" said Arthur.

"I assure you there's nothing horrible about it," said Hewet, sitting up and laying hands upon
the cake.

"It's so natural," he repeated. "People with children should make them do that exercise every
night. . . . Not that I look forward to being dead."

"And when you allude to a grave," said Mr. Thornbury, who spoke almost for the first time,
"have you any authority for calling that ruin a grave? I am quite with you in refusing to accept
the common interpretation which declares it to be the remains of an Elizabethan watch-tower--any
more than I believe that the circular mounds or barrows which we find on the top of our English
downs were camps. The antiquaries call everything a camp. I am always asking them, Well then,
where do you think our ancestors kept their cattle? Half the camps in England are merely the
ancient pound or barton as we call it in my part of the world. The argument that no one would
keep his cattle in such exposed and inaccessible spots has no weight at all, if you reflect
that in those days a man's cattle were his capital, his stock-in-trade, his daughter's dowries.
Without cattle he was a serf, another man's man. . . ." His eyes slowly lost their intensity,
and he muttered a few concluding words under his breath, looking curiously old and forlorn.

Hughling Elliot, who might have been expected to engage the old gentleman in argument, was
absent at the moment. He now came up holding out a large square of cotton upon which a fine
design was printed in pleasant bright colours that made his hand look pale.

"A bargain," he announced, laying it down on the cloth. "I've just bought it from the big man
with the ear-rings. Fine, isn't it? It wouldn't suit every one, of course, but it's just the
thing--isn't it, Hilda?--for Mrs. Raymond Parry."

"Mrs. Raymond Parry!" cried Helen and Mrs. Thornbury at the same moment.

They looked at each other as though a mist hitherto obscuring their faces had been blown away.

"Ah--you have been to those wonderful parties too?" Mrs. Elliot asked with interest.

Mrs. Parry's drawing-room, though thousands of miles away, behind a vast curve of water on
a tiny piece of earth, came before their eyes. They who had had no solidity or anchorage before
seemed to be attached to it somehow, and at once grown more substantial. Perhaps they had been
in the drawing-room at the same moment; perhaps they had passed each other on the stairs; at
any rate they knew some of the same people. They looked one another up and down with new interest.
But they could do no more than look at each other, for there was no time to enjoy the fruits
of the discovery. The donkeys were advancing, and it was advisable to begin the descent immediately,
for the night fell so quickly that it would be dark before they were home again.

Accordingly, remounting in order, they filed off down the hillside. Scraps of talk came floating
back from one to another. There were jokes to begin with, and laughter; some walked part of
the way, and picked flowers, and sent stones bounding before them.

"Who writes the best Latin verse in your college, Hirst?" Mr. Elliot called back incongruously,
and Mr. Hirst returned that he had no idea.

The dusk fell as suddenly as the natives had warned them, the hollows of the mountain on either
side filling up with darkness and the path becoming so dim that it was surprising to hear the
donkeys' hooves still striking on hard rock. Silence fell upon one, and then upon another,
until they were all silent, their minds spilling out into the deep blue air. The way seemed
shorter in the dark than in the day; and soon the lights of the town were seen on the flat
far beneath them.

Suddenly some one cried, "Ah!"

In a moment the slow yellow drop rose again from the plain below; it rose, paused, opened like
a flower, and fell in a shower of drops.

"Fireworks," they cried.

Another went up more quickly; and then another; they could almost hear it twist and roar.

"Some Saint's day, I suppose," said a voice. The rush and embrace of the rockets as they soared
up into the air seemed like the fiery way in which lovers suddenly rose and united, leaving
the crowd gazing up at them with strained white faces. But Susan and Arthur, riding down the
hill, never said a word to each other, and kept accurately apart.

Then the fireworks became erratic, and soon they ceased altogether, and the rest of the journey
was made almost in darkness, the mountain being a great shadow behind them, and bushes and
trees little shadows which threw darkness across the road. Among the plane-trees they separated,
bundling into carriages and driving off, without saying good-night, or saying it only in a
half-muffled way.

It was so late that there was no time for normal conversation between their arrival at the
hotel and their retirement to bed. But Hirst wandered into Hewet's room with a collar in his hand.

"Well, Hewet," he remarked, on the crest of a gigantic yawn, "that was a great success, I consider."
He yawned. "But take care you're not landed with that young woman. . . . I don't really like
young women. . . ."

Hewet was too much drugged by hours in the open air to make any reply. In fact every one of
the party was sound asleep within ten minutes or so of each other, with the exception of Susan
Warrington. She lay for a considerable time looking blankly at the wall opposite, her hands
clasped above her heart, and her light burning by her side. All articulate thought had long
ago deserted her; her heart seemed to have grown to the size of a sun, and to illuminate her
entire body, shedding like the sun a steady tide of warmth.

"I'm happy, I'm happy, I'm happy," she repeated. "I love every one. I'm happy."

Chapter XII

When Susan's engagement had been approved at home, and made public to any one who took an interest
in it at the hotel--and by this time the society at the hotel was divided so as to point to
invisible chalk-marks such as Mr. Hirst had described, the news was felt to justify some celebration--an
expedition? That had been done already. A dance then. The advantage of a dance was that it
abolished one of those long evenings which were apt to become tedious and lead to absurdly
early hours in spite of bridge.

Two or three people standing under the erect body of the stuffed leopard in the hall very soon
had the matter decided. Evelyn slid a pace or two this way and that, and pronounced that the
floor was excellent. Signor Rodriguez informed them of an old Spaniard who fiddled at weddings--fiddled
so as to make a tortoise waltz; and his daughter, although endowed with eyes as black as coal-scuttles,
had the same power over the piano. If there were any so sick or so surly as to prefer sedentary
occupations on the night in question to spinning and watching others spin, the drawing-room
and billiard-room were theirs. Hewet made it his business to conciliate the outsiders as much
as possible. To Hirst's theory of the invisible chalk-marks he would pay no attention whatever.
He was treated to a snub or two, but, in reward, found obscure lonely gentlemen delighted to
have this opportunity of talking to their kind, and the lady of doubtful character showed every
symptom of confiding her case to him in the near future. Indeed it was made quite obvious to
him that the two or three hours between dinner and bed contained an amount of unhappiness,
which was really pitiable, so many people had not succeeded in making friends.

It was settled that the dance was to be on Friday, one week after the engagement, and at dinner
Hewet declared himself satisfied.

"They're all coming!" he told Hirst. "Pepper!" he called, seeing William Pepper slip past in
the wake of the soup with a pamphlet beneath his arm, "We're counting on you to open the ball."

"You will certainly put sleep out of the question," Pepper returned.

"You are to take the floor with Miss Allan," Hewet continued, consulting a sheet of pencilled
notes.

Pepper stopped and began a discourse upon round dances, country dances, morris dances, and
quadrilles, all of which are entirely superior to the bastard waltz and spurious polka which
have ousted them most unjustly in contemporary popularity--when the waiters gently pushed him
on to his table in the corner.

The dining-room at this moment had a certain fantastic resemblance to a farmyard scattered
with grain on which bright pigeons kept descending. Almost all the ladies wore dresses which
they had not yet displayed, and their hair rose in waves and scrolls so as to appear like carved
wood in Gothic churches rather than hair. The dinner was shorter and less formal than usual,
even the waiters seeming to be affected with the general excitement. Ten minutes before the
clock struck nine the committee made a tour through the ballroom. The hall, when emptied of
its furniture, brilliantly lit, adorned with flowers whose scent tinged the air, presented
a wonderful appearance of ethereal gaiety.

"It's like a starlit sky on an absolutely cloudless night," Hewet murmured, looking about him,
at the airy empty room.

"A heavenly floor, anyhow," Evelyn added, taking a run and sliding two or three feet along.

"What about those curtains?" asked Hirst. The crimson curtains were drawn across the long windows.
"It's a perfect night outside."

"Yes, but curtains inspire confidence," Miss Allan decided. "When the ball is in full swing
it will be time to draw them. We might even open the windows a little. . . . If we do it now
elderly people will imagine there are draughts."

Her wisdom had come to be recognised, and held in respect. Meanwhile as they stood talking,
the musicians were unwrapping their instruments, and the violin was repeating again and again
a note struck upon the piano. Everything was ready to begin.

After a few minutes' pause, the father, the daughter, and the son-in-law who played the horn
flourished with one accord. Like the rats who followed the piper, heads instantly appeared
in the doorway. There was another flourish; and then the trio dashed spontaneously into the
triumphant swing of the waltz. It was as though the room were instantly flooded with water.
After a moment's hesitation first one couple, then another, leapt into mid-stream, and went
round and round in the eddies. The rhythmic swish of the dancers sounded like a swirling pool.
By degrees the room grew perceptibly hotter. The smell of kid gloves mingled with the strong
scent of flowers. The eddies seemed to circle faster and faster, until the music wrought itself
into a crash, ceased, and the circles were smashed into little separate bits. The couples struck
off in different directions, leaving a thin row of elderly people stuck fast to the walls,
and here and there a piece of trimming or a handkerchief or a flower lay upon the floor. There
was a pause, and then the music started again, the eddies whirled, the couples circled round
in them, until there was a crash, and the circles were broken up into separate pieces.

When this had happened about five times, Hirst, who leant against a window-frame, like some
singular gargoyle, perceived that Helen Ambrose and Rachel stood in the doorway. The crowd
was such that they could not move, but he recognised them by a piece of Helen's shoulder and
a glimpse of Rachel's head turning round. He made his way to them; they greeted him with relief.

"We are suffering the tortures of the damned," said Helen.

"This is my idea of hell," said Rachel.

Her eyes were bright and she looked bewildered.

Hewet and Miss Allan, who had been waltzing somewhat laboriously, paused and greeted the newcomers.

"This is nice," said Hewet. "But where is Mr. Ambrose?"

"Pindar," said Helen. "May a married woman who was forty in October dance? I can't stand still."
She seemed to fade into Hewet, and they both dissolved in the crowd.

"We must follow suit," said Hirst to Rachel, and he took her resolutely by the elbow. Rachel,
without being expert, danced well, because of a good ear for rhythm, but Hirst had no taste
for music, and a few dancing lessons at Cambridge had only put him into possession of the anatomy
of a waltz, without imparting any of its spirit. A single turn proved to them that their methods
were incompatible; instead of fitting into each other their bones seemed to jut out in angles
making smooth turning an impossibility, and cutting, moreover, into the circular progress of
the other dancers.

"Shall we stop?" said Hirst. Rachel gathered from his expression that he was annoyed.

They staggered to seats in the corner, from which they had a view of the room. It was still
surging, in waves of blue and yellow, striped by the black evening-clothes of the gentlemen.

"An amazing spectacle," Hirst remarked. "Do you dance much in London?" They were both breathing
fast, and both a little excited, though each was determined not to show any excitement at all.

"Scarcely ever. Do you?"

"My people give a dance every Christmas."

"This isn't half a bad floor," Rachel said. Hirst did not attempt to answer her platitude.
He sat quite silent, staring at the dancers. After three minutes the silence became so intolerable
to Rachel that she was goaded to advance another commonplace about the beauty of the night.
Hirst interrupted her ruthlessly.

"Was that all nonsense what you said the other day about being a Christian and having no education?"
he asked.

"It was practically true," she replied. "But I also play the piano very well," she said, "better,
I expect than any one in this room. You are the most distinguished man in England, aren't you?"
she asked shyly.

"One of the three," he corrected.

Helen whirling past here tossed a fan into Rachel's lap.

"She is very beautiful," Hirst remarked.

They were again silent. Rachel was wondering whether he thought her also nice-looking; St.
John was considering the immense difficulty of talking to girls who had no experience of life.
Rachel had obviously never thought or felt or seen anything, and she might be intelligent or
she might be just like all the rest. But Hewet's taunt rankled in his mind--"you don't know
how to get on with women," and he was determined to profit by this opportunity. Her evening-clothes
bestowed on her just that degree of unreality and distinction which made it romantic to speak
to her, and stirred a desire to talk, which irritated him because he did not know how to begin.
He glanced at her, and she seemed to him very remote and inexplicable, very young and chaste.
He drew a sigh, and began.

"About books now. What have you read? Just Shakespeare and the Bible?"

"I haven't read many classics," Rachel stated. She was slightly annoyed by his jaunty and rather
unnatural manner, while his masculine acquirements induced her to take a very modest view of
her own power.

"D'you mean to tell me you've reached the age of twenty-four without reading Gibbon?" he demanded.

"Yes, I have," she answered.

"Mon Dieu!" he exclaimed, throwing out his hands. "You must begin to-morrow. I shall send you
my copy. What I want to know is--" he looked at her critically. "You see, the problem is, can
one really talk to you? Have you got a mind, or are you like the rest of your sex? You seem
to me absurdly young compared with men of your age."

Rachel looked at him but said nothing.

"About Gibbon," he continued. "D'you think you'll be able to appreciate him? He's the test,
of course. It's awfully difficult to tell about women," he continued, "how much, I mean, is
due to lack of training, and how much is native incapacity. I don't see myself why you shouldn't
understand--only I suppose you've led an absurd life until now--you've just walked in a crocodile,
I suppose, with your hair down your back."

The music was again beginning. Hirst's eye wandered about the room in search of Mrs. Ambrose.
With the best will in the world he was conscious that they were not getting on well together.

"I'd like awfully to lend you books," he said, buttoning his gloves, and rising from his seat.
"We shall meet again. I'm going to leave you now."

He got up and left her.

Rachel looked round. She felt herself surrounded, like a child at a party, by the faces of
strangers all hostile to her, with hooked noses and sneering, indifferent eyes. She was by
a window, she pushed it open with a jerk. She stepped out into the garden. Her eyes swam with
tears of rage.

"Damn that man!" she exclaimed, having acquired some of Helen's words. "Damn his insolence!"

She stood in the middle of the pale square of light which the window she had opened threw upon
the grass. The forms of great black trees rose massively in front of her. She stood still,
looking at them, shivering slightly with anger and excitement. She heard the trampling and
swinging of the dancers behind her, and the rhythmic sway of the waltz music.

"There are trees," she said aloud. Would the trees make up for St. John Hirst? She would be
a Persian princess far from civilisation, riding her horse upon the mountains alone, and making
her women sing to her in the evening, far from all this, from the strife and men and women--a
form came out of the shadow; a little red light burnt high up in its blackness.

"Miss Vinrace, is it?" said Hewet, peering at her. "You were dancing with Hirst?"

"He's made me furious!" she cried vehemently. "No one's any right to be insolent!"

"Insolent?" Hewet repeated, taking his cigar from his mouth in surprise. "Hirst--insolent?"

"It's insolent to--" said Rachel, and stopped. She did not know exactly why she had been made
so angry. With a great effort she pulled herself together.

"Oh, well," she added, the vision of Helen and her mockery before her, "I dare say I'm a fool."
She made as though she were going back into the ballroom, but Hewet stopped her.

"Please explain to me," he said. "I feel sure Hirst didn't mean to hurt you."

When Rachel tried to explain, she found it very difficult. She could not say that she found
the vision of herself walking in a crocodile with her hair down her back peculiarly unjust
and horrible, nor could she explain why Hirst's assumption of the superiority of his nature
and experience had seemed to her not only galling but terrible--as if a gate had clanged in
her face. Pacing up and down the terrace beside Hewet she said bitterly:

"It's no good; we should live separate; we cannot understand each other; we only bring out
what's worst."

Hewet brushed aside her generalisation as to the natures of the two sexes, for such generalisations
bored him and seemed to him generally untrue. But, knowing Hirst, he guessed fairly accurately
what had happened, and, though secretly much amused, was determined that Rachel should not
store the incident away in her mind to take its place in the view she had of life.

"Now you'll hate him," he said, "which is wrong. Poor old Hirst--he can't help his method.
And really, Miss Vinrace, he was doing his best; he was paying you a compliment--he was trying--he
was trying--" he could not finish for the laughter that overcame him.

Rachel veered round suddenly and laughed out too. She saw that there was something ridiculous
about Hirst, and perhaps about herself.

"It's his way of making friends, I suppose," she laughed. "Well--I shall do my part. I shall
begin--'Ugly in body, repulsive in mind as you are, Mr. Hirst--"

"Hear, hear!" cried Hewet. "That's the way to treat him. You see, Miss Vinrace, you must make
allowances for Hirst. He's lived all his life in front of a looking-glass, so to speak, in
a beautiful panelled room, hung with Japanese prints and lovely old chairs and tables, just
one splash of colour, you know, in the right place,--between the windows I think it is,--and
there he sits hour after hour with his toes on the fender, talking about philosophy and God
and his liver and his heart and the hearts of his friends. They're all broken. You can't expect
him to be at his best in a ballroom. He wants a cosy, smoky, masculine place, where he can
stretch his legs out, and only speak when he's got something to say. For myself, I find it
rather dreary. But I do respect it. They're all so much in earnest. They do take the serious
things very seriously."

The description of Hirst's way of life interested Rachel so much that she almost forgot her
private grudge against him, and her respect revived.

"They are really very clever then?" she asked.

"Of course they are. So far as brains go I think it's true what he said the other day; they're
the cleverest people in England. But--you ought to take him in hand," he added. "There's a
great deal more in him than's ever been got at. He wants some one to laugh at him. . . . The
idea of Hirst telling you that you've had no experiences! Poor old Hirst!"

They had been pacing up and down the terrace while they talked, and now one by one the dark
windows were uncurtained by an invisible hand, and panes of light fell regularly at equal intervals
upon the grass. They stopped to look in at the drawing-room, and perceived Mr. Pepper writing
alone at a table.

"There's Pepper writing to his aunt," said Hewet. "She must be a very remarkable old lady,
eighty-five he tells me, and he takes her for walking tours in the New Forest. . . . Pepper!"
he cried, rapping on the window. "Go and do your duty. Miss Allan expects you."

When they came to the windows of the ballroom, the swing of the dancers and the lilt of the
music was irresistible.

"Shall we?" said Hewet, and they clasped hands and swept off magnificently into the great swirling
pool. Although this was only the second time they had met, the first time they had seen a man
and woman kissing each other, and the second time Mr. Hewet had found that a young woman angry
is very like a child. So that when they joined hands in the dance they felt more at their ease
than is usual.

It was midnight and the dance was now at its height. Servants were peeping in at the windows;
the garden was sprinkled with the white shapes of couples sitting out. Mrs. Thornbury and Mrs.
Elliot sat side by side under a palm tree, holding fans, handkerchiefs, and brooches deposited
in their laps by flushed maidens. Occasionally they exchanged comments.

"Miss Warrington does look happy," said Mrs. Elliot; they both smiled; they both sighed.

"He has a great deal of character," said Mrs. Thornbury, alluding to Arthur.

"And character is what one wants," said Mrs. Elliot. "Now that young man is clever enough,"
she added, nodding at Hirst, who came past with Miss Allan on his arm.

"He does not look strong," said Mrs. Thornbury. "His complexion is not good.--Shall I tear
it off?" she asked, for Rachel had stopped, conscious of a long strip trailing behind her.

"I hope you are enjoying yourselves?" Hewet asked the ladies.

"This is a very familiar position for me!" smiled Mrs. Thornbury. "I have brought out five
daughters--and they all loved dancing! You love it too, Miss Vinrace?" she asked, looking at
Rachel with maternal eyes. "I know I did when I was your age. How I used to beg my mother to
let me stay--and now I sympathise with the poor mothers--but I sympathise with the daughters too!"

She smiled sympathetically, and at the same time rather keenly, at Rachel.

"They seem to find a great deal to say to each other," said Mrs. Elliot, looking significantly
at the backs of the couple as they turned away. "Did you notice at the picnic? He was the only
person who could make her utter."

"Her father is a very interesting man," said Mrs. Thornbury. "He has one of the largest shipping
businesses in Hull. He made a very able reply, you remember, to Mr. Asquith at the last election.
It is so interesting to find that a man of his experience is a strong Protectionist."

She would have liked to discuss politics, which interested her more than personalities, but
Mrs. Elliot would only talk about the Empire in a less abstract form.

"I hear there are dreadful accounts from England about the rats," she said. "A sister-in-law,
who lives at Norwich, tells me it has been quite unsafe to order poultry. The plague--you see.
It attacks the rats, and through them other creatures."

"And the local authorities are not taking proper steps?" asked Mrs. Thornbury.

"That she does not say. But she describes the attitude of the educated people--who should know
better--as callous in the extreme. Of course, my sister-in-law is one of those active modern
women, who always takes things up, you know--the kind of woman one admires, though one does
not feel, at least I do not feel--but then she has a constitution of iron."

Mrs. Elliot, brought back to the consideration of her own delicacy, here sighed.

"A very animated face," said Mrs. Thornbury, looking at Evelyn M. who had stopped near them
to pin tight a scarlet flower at her breast. It would not stay, and, with a spirited gesture
of impatience, she thrust it into her partner's button-hole. He was a tall melancholy youth,
who received the gift as a knight might receive his lady's token.

"Very trying to the eyes," was Mrs. Eliot's next remark, after watching the yellow whirl in
which so few of the whirlers had either name or character for her, for a few minutes. Bursting
out of the crowd, Helen approached them, and took a vacant chair.

"May I sit by you?" she said, smiling and breathing fast. "I suppose I ought to be ashamed
of myself," she went on, sitting down, "at my age."

Her beauty, now that she was flushed and animated, was more expansive than usual, and both
the ladies felt the same desire to touch her.

"I am enjoying myself," she panted. "Movement--isn't it amazing?"

"I have always heard that nothing comes up to dancing if one is a good dancer," said Mrs. Thornbury,
looking at her with a smile.

Helen swayed slightly as if she sat on wires.

"I could dance for ever!" she said. "They ought to let themselves go more!" she exclaimed.
"They ought to leap and swing. Look! How they mince!"

"Have you seen those wonderful Russian dancers?" began Mrs. Elliot. But Helen saw her partner
coming and rose as the moon rises. She was half round the room before they took their eyes
off her, for they could not help admiring her, although they thought it a little odd that a
woman of her age should enjoy dancing.

Directly Helen was left alone for a minute she was joined by St. John Hirst, who had been watching
for an opportunity.

"Should you mind sitting out with me?" he asked. "I'm quite incapable of dancing." He piloted
Helen to a corner which was supplied with two arm-chairs, and thus enjoyed the advantage of
semi-privacy. They sat down, and for a few minutes Helen was too much under the influence of
dancing to speak.

"Astonishing!" she exclaimed at last. "What sort of shape can she think her body is?" This
remark was called forth by a lady who came past them, waddling rather than walking, and leaning
on the arm of a stout man with globular green eyes set in a fat white face. Some support was
necessary, for she was very stout, and so compressed that the upper part of her body hung considerably
in advance of her feet, which could only trip in tiny steps, owing to the tightness of the
skirt round her ankles. The dress itself consisted of a small piece of shiny yellow satin,
adorned here and there indiscriminately with round shields of blue and green beads made to
imitate hues of a peacock's breast. On the summit of a frothy castle of hair a purple plume
stood erect, while her short neck was encircled by a black velvet ribbon knobbed with gems,
and golden bracelets were tightly wedged into the flesh of her fat gloved arms. She had the
face of an impertinent but jolly little pig, mottled red under a dusting of powder.

St. John could not join in Helen's laughter.

"It makes me sick," he declared. "The whole thing makes me sick. . . . Consider the minds of
those people--their feelings. Don't you agree?"

"I always make a vow never to go to another party of any description," Helen replied, "and
I always break it."

She leant back in her chair and looked laughingly at the young man. She could see that he was
genuinely cross, if at the same time slightly excited.

"However," he said, resuming his jaunty tone, "I suppose one must just make up one's mind to it."

"To what?"

"There never will be more than five people in the world worth talking to."

Slowly the flush and sparkle in Helen's face died away, and she looked as quiet and as observant
as usual.

"Five people?" she remarked. "I should say there were more than five."

"You've been very fortunate, then," said Hirst. "Or perhaps I've been very unfortunate." He
became silent.

"Should you say I was a difficult kind of person to get on with?" he asked sharply.

"Most clever people are when they're young," Helen replied.

"And of course I am--immensely clever," said Hirst. "I'm infinitely cleverer than Hewet. It's
quite possible," he continued in his curiously impersonal manner, "that I'm going to be one
of the people who really matter. That's utterly different from being clever, though one can't
expect one's family to see it," he added bitterly.

Helen thought herself justified in asking, "Do you find your family difficult to get on with?"

"Intolerable. . . . They want me to be a peer and a privy councillor. I've come out here partly
in order to settle the matter. It's got to be settled. Either I must go to the bar, or I must
stay on in Cambridge. Of course, there are obvious drawbacks to each, but the arguments certainly
do seem to me in favour of Cambridge. This kind of thing!" he waved his hand at the crowded
ballroom. "Repulsive. I'm conscious of great powers of affection too. I'm not susceptible,
of course, in the way Hewet is. I'm very fond of a few people. I think, for example, that there's
something to be said for my mother, though she is in many ways so deplorable. . . . At Cambridge,
of course, I should inevitably become the most important man in the place, but there are other
reasons why I dread Cambridge--" he ceased.

"Are you finding me a dreadful bore?" he asked. He changed curiously from a friend confiding
in a friend to a conventional young man at a party.

"Not in the least," said Helen. "I like it very much."

"You can't think," he exclaimed, speaking almost with emotion, "what a difference it makes
finding someone to talk to! Directly I saw you I felt you might possibly understand me. I'm
very fond of Hewet, but he hasn't the remotest idea what I'm like. You're the only woman I've
ever met who seems to have the faintest conception of what I mean when I say a thing."

The next dance was beginning; it was the Barcarolle out of Hoffman, which made Helen beat her
toe in time to it; but she felt that after such a compliment it was impossible to get up and
go, and, besides being amused, she was really flattered, and the honesty of his conceit attracted
her. She suspected that he was not happy, and was sufficiently feminine to wish to receive
confidences.

"I'm very old," she sighed.

"The odd thing is that I don't find you old at all," he replied. "I feel as though we were
exactly the same age. Moreover--" here he hesitated, but took courage from a glance at her
face, "I feel as if I could talk quite plainly to you as one does to a man--about the relations
between the sexes, about . . . and . . ."

In spite of his certainty a slight redness came into his face as he spoke the last two words.

She reassured him at once by the laugh with which she exclaimed, "I should hope so!"

He looked at her with real cordiality, and the lines which were drawn about his nose and lips
slackened for the first time.

"Thank God!" he exclaimed. "Now we can behave like civilised human beings."

Certainly a barrier which usually stands fast had fallen, and it was possible to speak of matters
which are generally only alluded to between men and women when doctors are present, or the
shadow of death. In five minutes he was telling her the history of his life. It was long, for
it was full of extremely elaborate incidents, which led on to a discussion of the principles
on which morality is founded, and thus to several very interesting matters, which even in this
ballroom had to be discussed in a whisper, lest one of the pouter pigeon ladies or resplendent
merchants should overhear them, and proceed to demand that they should leave the place. When
they had come to an end, or, to speak more accurately, when Helen intimated by a slight slackening
of her attention that they had sat there long enough, Hirst rose, exclaiming, "So there's no
reason whatever for all this mystery!"

"None, except that we are English people," she answered. She took his arm and they crossed
the ball-room, making their way with difficulty between the spinning couples, who were now
perceptibly dishevelled, and certainly to a critical eye by no means lovely in their shapes.
The excitement of undertaking a friendship and the length of their talk, made them hungry,
and they went in search of food to the dining-room, which was now full of people eating at
little separate tables. In the doorway they met Rachel, going up to dance again with Arthur
Venning. She was flushed and looked very happy, and Helen was struck by the fact that in this
mood she was certainly more attractive than the generality of young women. She had never noticed
it so clearly before.

"Enjoying yourself?" she asked, as they stopped for a second.

"Miss Vinrace," Arthur answered for her, "has just made a confession; she'd no idea that dances
could be so delightful."

"Yes!" Rachel exclaimed. "I've changed my view of life completely!"

"You don't say so!" Helen mocked. They passed on.

"That's typical of Rachel," she said. "She changes her view of life about every other day.
D'you know, I believe you're just the person I want," she said, as they sat down, "to help
me complete her education? She's been brought up practically in a nunnery. Her father's too
absurd. I've been doing what I can--but I'm too old, and I'm a woman. Why shouldn't you talk
to her--explain things to her--talk to her, I mean, as you talk to me?"

"I have made one attempt already this evening," said St. John. "I rather doubt that it was
successful. She seems to me so very young and inexperienced. I have promised to lend her Gibbon."

"It's not Gibbon exactly," Helen pondered. "It's the facts of life, I think--d'you see what
I mean? What really goes on, what people feel, although they generally try to hide it? There's
nothing to be frightened of. It's so much more beautiful than the pretences--always more interesting--always
better, I should say, than that kind of thing."

She nodded her head at a table near them, where two girls and two young men were chaffing each
other very loudly, and carrying on an arch insinuating dialogue, sprinkled with endearments,
about, it seemed, a pair of stockings or a pair of legs. One of the girls was flirting a fan
and pretending to be shocked, and the sight was very unpleasant, partly because it was obvious
that the girls were secretly hostile to each other.

"In my old age, however," Helen sighed, "I'm coming to think that it doesn't much matter in
the long run what one does: people always go their own way--nothing will ever influence them."
She nodded her head at the supper party.

But St. John did not agree. He said that he thought one could really make a great deal of difference
by one's point of view, books and so on, and added that few things at the present time mattered
more than the enlightenment of women. He sometimes thought that almost everything was due to
education.

In the ballroom, meanwhile, the dancers were being formed into squares for the lancers. Arthur
and Rachel, Susan and Hewet, Miss Allan and Hughling Elliot found themselves together.

Miss Allan looked at her watch.

"Half-past one," she stated. "And I have to despatch Alexander Pope to-morrow."

"Pope!" snorted Mr. Elliot. "Who reads Pope, I should like to know? And as for reading about
him--No, no, Miss Allan; be persuaded you will benefit the world much more by dancing than
by writing." It was one of Mr. Elliot's affectations that nothing in the world could compare
with the delights of dancing--nothing in the world was so tedious as literature. Thus he sought
pathetically enough to ingratiate himself with the young, and to prove to them beyond a doubt
that though married to a ninny of a wife, and rather pale and bent and careworn by his weight
of learning, he was as much alive as the youngest of them all.

"It's a question of bread and butter," said Miss Allan calmly. "However, they seem to expect
me." She took up her position and pointed a square black toe.

"Mr. Hewet, you bow to me." It was evident at once that Miss Allan was the only one of them
who had a thoroughly sound knowledge of the figures of the dance.

After the lancers there was a waltz; after the waltz a polka; and then a terrible thing happened;
the music, which had been sounding regularly with five-minute pauses, stopped suddenly. The
lady with the great dark eyes began to swathe her violin in silk, and the gentleman placed
his horn carefully in its case. They were surrounded by couples imploring them in English,
in French, in Spanish, of one more dance, one only; it was still early. But the old man at
the piano merely exhibited his watch and shook his head. He turned up the collar of his coat
and produced a red silk muffler, which completely dashed his festive appearance. Strange as
it seemed, the musicians were pale and heavy-eyed; they looked bored and prosaic, as if the
summit of their desire was cold meat and beer, succeeded immediately by bed.

Rachel was one of those who had begged them to continue. When they refused she began turning
over the sheets of dance music which lay upon the piano. The pieces were generally bound in
coloured covers, with pictures on them of romantic scenes--gondoliers astride on the crescent
of the moon, nuns peering through the bars of a convent window, or young women with their hair
down pointing a gun at the stars. She remembered that the general effect of the music to which
they had danced so gaily was one of passionate regret for dead love and the innocent years
of youth; dreadful sorrows had always separated the dancers from their past happiness.

"No wonder they get sick of playing stuff like this," she remarked reading a bar or two; "they're
really hymn tunes, played very fast, with bits out of Wagner and Beethoven."

"Do you play? Would you play? Anything, so long as we can dance to it!" From all sides her
gift for playing the piano was insisted upon, and she had to consent. As very soon she had
played the only pieces of dance music she could remember, she went on to play an air from a
sonata by Mozart.

"But that's not a dance," said some one pausing by the piano.

"It is," she replied, emphatically nodding her head. "Invent the steps." Sure of her melody
she marked the rhythm boldly so as to simplify the way. Helen caught the idea; seized Miss
Allan by the arm, and whirled round the room, now curtseying, now spinning round, now tripping
this way and that like a child skipping through a meadow.

"This is the dance for people who don't know how to dance!" she cried. The tune changed to
a minuet; St. John hopped with incredible swiftness first on his left leg, then on his right;
the tune flowed melodiously; Hewet, swaying his arms and holding out the tails of his coat,
swam down the room in imitation of the voluptuous dreamy dance of an Indian maiden dancing
before her Rajah. The tune marched; and Miss Allen advanced with skirts extended and bowed
profoundly to the engaged pair. Once their feet fell in with the rhythm they showed a complete
lack of self-consciousness. From Mozart Rachel passed without stopping to old English hunting
songs, carols, and hymn tunes, for, as she had observed, any good tune, with a little management,
became a tune one could dance to. By degrees every person in the room was tripping and turning
in pairs or alone. Mr. Pepper executed an ingenious pointed step derived from figure-skating,
for which he once held some local championship; while Mrs. Thornbury tried to recall an old
country dance which she had seen danced by her father's tenants in Dorsetshire in the old days.
As for Mr. and Mrs. Elliot, they gallopaded round and round the room with such impetuosity
that the other dancers shivered at their approach. Some people were heard to criticise the
performance as a romp; to others it was the most enjoyable part of the evening.

"Now for the great round dance!" Hewet shouted. Instantly a gigantic circle was formed, the
dancers holding hands and shouting out, "D'you ken John Peel," as they swung faster and faster
and faster, until the strain was too great, and one link of the chain--Mrs. Thornbury--gave
way, and the rest went flying across the room in all directions, to land upon the floor or
the chairs or in each other's arms as seemed most convenient.

Rising from these positions, breathless and unkempt, it struck them for the first time that
the electric lights pricked the air very vainly, and instinctively a great many eyes turned
to the windows. Yes--there was the dawn. While they had been dancing the night had passed,
and it had come. Outside, the mountains showed very pure and remote; the dew was sparkling
on the grass, and the sky was flushed with blue, save for the pale yellows and pinks in the
East. The dancers came crowding to the windows, pushed them open, and here and there ventured
a foot upon the grass.

"How silly the poor old lights look!" said Evelyn M. in a curiously subdued tone of voice.
"And ourselves; it isn't becoming." It was true; the untidy hair, and the green and yellow
gems, which had seemed so festive half an hour ago, now looked cheap and slovenly. The complexions
of the elder ladies suffered terribly, and, as if conscious that a cold eye had been turned
upon them, they began to say good-night and to make their way up to bed.

Rachel, though robbed of her audience, had gone on playing to herself. From John Peel she passed
to Bach, who was at this time the subject of her intense enthusiasm, and one by one some of
the younger dancers came in from the garden and sat upon the deserted gilt chairs round the
piano, the room being now so clear that they turned out the lights. As they sat and listened,
their nerves were quieted; the heat and soreness of their lips, the result of incessant talking
and laughing, was smoothed away. They sat very still as if they saw a building with spaces
and columns succeeding each other rising in the empty space. Then they began to see themselves
and their lives, and the whole of human life advancing very nobly under the direction of the
music. They felt themselves ennobled, and when Rachel stopped playing they desired nothing
but sleep.

Susan rose. "I think this has been the happiest night of my life!" she exclaimed. "I do adore
music," she said, as she thanked Rachel. "It just seems to say all the things one can't say
oneself." She gave a nervous little laugh and looked from one to another with great benignity,
as though she would like to say something but could not find the words in which to express
it. "Every one's been so kind--so very kind," she said. Then she too went to bed.

The party having ended in the very abrupt way in which parties do end, Helen and Rachel stood
by the door with their cloaks on, looking for a carriage.

"I suppose you realise that there are no carriages left?" said St. John, who had been out to
look. "You must sleep here."

"Oh, no," said Helen; "we shall walk."

"May we come too?" Hewet asked. "We can't go to bed. Imagine lying among bolsters and looking
at one's washstand on a morning like this--Is that where you live?" They had begun to walk
down the avenue, and he turned and pointed at the white and green villa on the hillside, which
seemed to have its eyes shut.

"That's not a light burning, is it?" Helen asked anxiously.

"It's the sun," said St. John. The upper windows had each a spot of gold on them.

"I was afraid it was my husband, still reading Greek," she said. "All this time he's been editing
Pindar."

They passed through the town and turned up the steep road, which was perfectly clear, though
still unbordered by shadows. Partly because they were tired, and partly because the early light
subdued them, they scarcely spoke, but breathed in the delicious fresh air, which seemed to
belong to a different state of life from the air at midday. When they came to the high yellow
wall, where the lane turned off from the road, Helen was for dismissing the two young men.

"You've come far enough," she said. "Go back to bed."

But they seemed unwilling to move.

"Let's sit down a moment," said Hewet. He spread his coat on the ground. "Let's sit down and
consider." They sat down and looked out over the bay; it was very still, the sea was rippling
faintly, and lines of green and blue were beginning to stripe it. There were no sailing boats
as yet, but a steamer was anchored in the bay, looking very ghostly in the mist; it gave one
unearthly cry, and then all was silent.

Rachel occupied herself in collecting one grey stone after another and building them into a
little cairn; she did it very quietly and carefully.

"And so you've changed your view of life, Rachel?" said Helen.

Rachel added another stone and yawned. "I don't remember," she said, "I feel like a fish at
the bottom of the sea." She yawned again. None of these people possessed any power to frighten
her out here in the dawn, and she felt perfectly familiar even with Mr. Hirst.

"My brain, on the contrary," said Hirst, "is in a condition of abnormal activity." He sat in
his favourite position with his arms binding his legs together and his chin resting on the
top of his knees. "I see through everything--absolutely everything. Life has no more mysteries
for me." He spoke with conviction, but did not appear to wish for an answer. Near though they
sat, and familiar though they felt, they seemed mere shadows to each other.

"And all those people down there going to sleep," Hewet began dreamily, "thinking such different
things,--Miss Warrington, I suppose, is now on her knees; the Elliots are a little startled,
it's not often they get out of breath, and they want to get to sleep as quickly as possible;
then there's the poor lean young man who danced all night with Evelyn; he's putting his flower
in water and asking himself, 'Is this love?'--and poor old Perrott, I daresay, can't get to
sleep at all, and is reading his favourite Greek book to console himself--and the others--no,
Hirst," he wound up, "I don't find it simple at all."

"I have a key," said Hirst cryptically. His chin was still upon his knees and his eyes fixed
in front of him.

A silence followed. Then Helen rose and bade them good-night. "But," she said, "remember that
you've got to come and see us."

They waved good-night and parted, but the two young men did not go back to the hotel; they
went for a walk, during which they scarcely spoke, and never mentioned the names of the two
women, who were, to a considerable extent, the subject of their thoughts. They did not wish
to share their impressions. They returned to the hotel in time for breakfast.

Chapter XIII

There were many rooms in the villa, but one room which possessed a character of its own because
the door was always shut, and no sound of music or laughter issued from it. Every one in the
house was vaguely conscious that something went on behind that door, and without in the least
knowing what it was, were influenced in their own thoughts by the knowledge that if the passed
it the door would be shut, and if they made a noise Mr. Ambrose inside would be disturbed.
Certain acts therefore possessed merit, and others were bad, so that life became more harmonious
and less disconnected than it would have been had Mr. Ambrose given up editing Pindar, and
taken to a nomad existence, in and out of every room in the house. As it was, every one was
conscious that by observing certain rules, such as punctuality and quiet, by cooking well,
and performing other small duties, one ode after another was satisfactorily restored to the
world, and they shared the continuity of the scholar's life. Unfortunately, as age puts one
barrier between human beings, and learning another, and sex a third, Mr. Ambrose in his study
was some thousand miles distant from the nearest human being, who in this household was inevitably
a woman. He sat hour after hour among white-leaved books, alone like an idol in an empty church,
still except for the passage of his hand from one side of the sheet to another, silent save
for an occasional choke, which drove him to extend his pipe a moment in the air. As he worked
his way further and further into the heart of the poet, his chair became more and more deeply
encircled by books, which lay open on the floor, and could only be crossed by a careful process
of stepping, so delicate that his visitors generally stopped and addressed him from the outskirts.

On the morning after the dance, however, Rachel came into her uncle's room and hailed him twice,
"Uncle Ridley," before he paid her any attention.

At length he looked over his spectacles.

"Well?" he asked.

"I want a book," she replied. "Gibbon's History of the Roman Empire. May I have it?"

She watched the lines on her uncle's face gradually rearrange themselves at her question. It
had been smooth as a mask before she spoke.

"Please say that again," said her uncle, either because he had not heard or because he had
not understood.

She repeated the same words and reddened slightly as she did so.

"Gibbon! What on earth d'you want him for?" he enquired.

"Somebody advised me to read it," Rachel stammered.

"But I don't travel about with a miscellaneous collection of eighteenth-century historians!"
her uncle exclaimed. "Gibbon! Ten big volumes at least."

Rachel said that she was sorry to interrupt, and was turning to go.

