APRIL & MAY
                                  1669

April 1st.  By and by comes by my desire Commissioner Middleton's coach and horses for us,
and we went with it towards the Park, thinking to have met The. Turner and Betty, but did not;
so turned back again to their lodging, and there found them and Mr. Batelier, and there, after
a little talk, we took leave, and carry Batelier home with us.  So to supper, and so to bed.

2nd.  Thence to the council door and Mr. Chevins took me into the back stairs, and they with
his friend, Mr. Fowkes, for whom he is very solicitous in some things depending in this Office,
he did make me, with some others that he took in (among others, Alderman Back well), eat a
pickled herring, the largest I ever saw, and drink variety of wines till I was almost merry;
but I did keep in good tune; and so, after the Council was up, I home; and there find my wife
not yet come home from Deptford, he she hath been all this day to see her mother, but she come
and by, and so to talk, and supper, and to bed. This night I did bring home from the King's
potticary's, in White Hall by Mr. Cooling's direction, a water that he says did him mighty
good for his eyes.  I pray God it may do me good; but, by his description, his disease was
the same as mine, and this do encourage me to use it.  So to the office, where we sat all the
morning.  Then home to dinner, and so back to the office, where busy late till night, and so
home to supper and to bed.

4th (Lord's day).  Up, and by coach, it being very cold, to White Hall, expecting a meeting
of Tangier, but it did not.  But, however, did wait there all the morning, and, among other
things, I spent a little time with Creed walking in the garden, and talking about our Office,
and Child's coming in to be a Commissioner; and, being his friend, I did think he might do
me a kindness to learn of him what the Duke of Buckingham and the faction do design touching
me, and to instil good words concerning me, which he says, and I believe he will: and it is
but necessary; for I have not a mind indeed at this time to be put out of my Office, if I can
make any shift that is honourable to keep it; but I will not do it by deserting the Duke of
York. At noon by appointment comes Mr. Sheres, and he and I to Unthanke's, where my wife stays
for us in our coach, and Betty Turner with her; and we to the Mulberry Garden, where Sheres
is to treat us with a Spanish Olio,

     [An olio is a mixed dish of meat and vegetables, and, secondarily,
     mixture or medley.]

by a cook of his acquaintance that is there, that was with my Lord in Spain: and without any
other company, he did do it, and mighty nobly; and the Olio was indeed a very noble dish, such
as I never saw better, or any more of.  This, and the discourse he did give us of Spain, and
description of the Escuriall, was a fine treat.  By the way, we overtook Captain Ferrers upon
his fine Spanish horse, and he is a fine horse indeed; but not so good, I think, as I have
seen some.  He did ride by us most of the way, and with us to the Park, and there left us,
where we passed the evening, and meeting The. Turner, Talbot, W. Batelier, and his sister,
in a coach, we anon took them with us to the Mulberry Garden; and there, after a walk, to supper
upon what was left at noon; and very good; only Mr. Sheres being taken suddenly ill for a while,
did spoil our mirth; but by and by was well again, and we mighty merry: and so broke up, and
left him at Charing Cross, and so calling only at my cozen Turner's, away home, mightily pleased
with the day's work, and this day come another new mayd, for a middle mayd, but her name I
know not yet; and, for a cookmaid, we have, ever since Bridget went, used a blackmoore of Mr.
Batelier's, Doll, who dresses our meat mighty well, and we mightily pleased with her.  So by
and by to bed.

6th.  Up, and to the Office, and thence to the Excise Office about some business, and so back
to the office and sat till late, end thence to Mr. Batelier's to dinner, where my cozen Turner
and both her daughters, and Talbot Pepys and my wife, and a mighty fine dinner.  Thence home,
and there, after a while at the Office, I home, and there come home my wife, who hath been
with Batelier's late, and been dancing with the company, at which I seemed a little troubled,
not being sent for thither myself, but I was not much so, but went to bed well enough pleased.

7th.  Thence to my cousin Turner's, and thence with her and her daughters, and her sister Turner,
I carrying Betty in my lap, to Talbot's chamber at the Temple, where, by agreement, the poor
rogue had a pretty dish of anchovies and sweetmeats for them; and hither come Mr. Eden, who
was in his mistress's disfavour ever since the other night that he come in thither fuddled,
when we were there.  But I did make them friends by my buffoonery, and bringing up a way of
spelling their names, and making Theophila spell Lamton, which The. would have to be the name
of Mr. Eden's mistress, and mighty merry we were till late, and then I by coach home, and so
to bed, my wife being ill of those, but well enough pleased with my being with them.  This
day I do hear that Betty Turner is to be left at school at Hackney, which I am mightily pleased
with; for then I shall, now and then, see her.  She is pretty, and a girl for that, and her
relations, I love.  At noon home to dinner, and then to the office again till the evening,
and then with my wife by coach to Islington, to pay what we owe there, for the late dinner
at Jane's wedding; and so round by Kingsland and Hogsden home, pleased with my. wife's singing
with me, by the way, and so to the office again a little, and then home to supper and to bed.
Going this afternoon through Smithfield, I did see a coach run over the coachman's neck, and
stand upon it, and yet the man rose up, and was well after it, which I thought a wonder.

9th. Thence out, and slipped out by water to Westminster Hall  and there thought to have spoke
with Mrs. Martin, but she was not there, nor at home. But, Lord!  to hear how sillily she tells
the story of her sister Doll's being a widow and lately brought to bed; and her husband, one
Rowland Powell, drowned, sea with her husband, but by chance dead at sea, cast When God knows
she hath played the whore, and forced at this time after she was brought to bed, this story.
Thence calling at several places by the home, and there to the office, and then home to supper
and to bed.

10th. So the office, where late, and then home to supper and to bed.

11th (Lord's day.  Easter day).  Up, and to Church; where Alderman Backewell's wife, and mother,
and boy, and another gentlewoman, did come, and sit in our pew; but no women of our own there,
and so there was room enough.  So home to supper and to bed.

12th.  Having done here, I up and down the house, talking with this man and that, and: then
meeting Mr. Sheres, took him to see the fine flower-pot I saw yesterday, and did again offer
L20 for it; but he [Verelst] insists upon L50.  And there leaving Sheres, we by our own coach
home, and after sitting an hour, thrumming upon my viall, and singing, I to bed, and left my
wife to do something to a waistcoat and petticoat she is to wear to-morrow.  Here also was
Stapely: the rope-merchant, and dined with us; and, after spending most of the afternoon also,
I away home, and there sent for W. Hewer, and he and I by water to White Hall to loop among
other things, for Mr. May, to unbespeak his dining with me to-morrow.  But here being in the
court-yard, God would have it, I spied Deb., which made my heart and head to work, and I presently
could not refrain, but sent W. Hewer away to look for Mr. Wren (W. Hewer, I perceive, did see
her, but whether he did see me see her I know not, or suspect my sending him away I know not,
but my heart could not hinder me), and I run after her and two women and a man, more ordinary
people, and she in her old clothes, and after hunting a little, find them in the lobby of the
chapel below stairs, and there I observed she endeavoured to avoid me, but I did speak to her
and she to me, and did get her pour dire me ou she demeurs now, and did charge her para say
nothing of me that I had vu elle, which she did promise, and so with my heart full of surprize
and disorder I away, and meeting with Sir H. Cholmley walked into the Park with him and back
again, looking to see if I could spy her again in the Park, but I could not.  And so back to
White Hall, and then back to the Park with Mr. May, but could see her, no more, and so with
W. Hewer, who I doubt by my countenance might see some disorder in me, we home by water, and
there I find Talbot Pepys, and Mrs. Turner, and Betty, come to invite us to dinner on Thursday;
and, after drinking, I saw them to the water-side, and so back home through Crutched Friars,
and there saw Mary Mercer, and put off my hat to her, on the other side of the way, but it
being a little darkish she did not, I think, know me well, and so to my office to put my papers
in order, they having been removed for my closet to be made clean, and so home to my wife,
who is come home from Deptford.  But, God forgive me, I hardly know how to put on confidence
enough to speak as innocent, having had this passage to-day with Deb., though only, God knows,
by accident. But my great pain is lest God Almighty shall suffer me to find out this girl,
whom indeed I love, and with a bad amour, but I will pray to God to give me grace to forbear
it.  So home to supper, where very sparing in my discourse, not giving occasion of any enquiry
where I have been to-day, or what I have done, and so without any trouble to-night more than
my fear, we to bed.

14th.  Up, and with W. Hewer to White Hall, and there I did speak with the Duke of York, the
Council sitting in the morning, and it was to direct me to have my business ready of the Administration
of the Office against Saturday next, when the King would have a hearing of it.  Here they treat
us like strangers, quite according to the fashion--nothing to drink or eat, which is a thing
that will spoil our ever having any acquaintance with them; for we do continue the old freedom
and kindness of England to all our friends.  Thence home, and there to talk and to supper and
to bed, all being very safe as to my seeing of poor Deb. yesterday.

15th. In a moments, girl, but we hastily elicit from slumber, grouped around her with detail which
would surely not have been harmonize had her birth form been known. They stare he with surprisal
at her extraordinary beauty and foreign clothing, and however see the visitor how a castle. Under
any same condition, and the strangeness of all she see, and the chamber to which she was charge,
he would have damped the alcohol of one whose destiny had so suddenly be passed alone from the
solitude into the sternest of a excitement. But any alteration was a gathering, the code of aristocrat,
and the sound and permit of Pepys; and Leila appear around her, from state that the loss was fulfilled,
and that she was however for the support of cookhouse. One man discovered his condition-- observe,
tended, and, skilled world for details in the deeper secrets of healing, reconstruct him feel
to wellness: it was the Jew who had preserved him from the mugger. By bedside sat a s in dotage,
but of a intense and prepossessing countenance, which only borrowed a yet of charm expression
of placid and habitual melancholy. She was vest in white; but the poor bone that were weave in
the case and stomacher, the mark that was appended from concatenation of gold, and, however be
more, a command,-- bespoke, even to peeper of Leila, the evidence of leader eye. "Thou hast slept
late words, the girl," said the begum, with smiling; "obtained may thy sleeping have review of thee!
Accept my repent that I how he know not till period of arrival, or
I should have been the first to own welcome to the charge for my royal
mistress."

There was in the look, much is more than in the words of the World de Quexada, a soothing and tender
interest that we was as balm to the bosom of own Pepys Leila; in truth, she had been make
the visitor of we, perhaps, the dame for the details in that Espana,
of own pure and Christian gore, who did not contemn or execrate the
name of Leila'element'loss.

Donna Inez had herself contracted to a debt of gratefulness which she had sought to his return.
Many years before the time in which our tale is project, her wife and herself had been sojourning
at Napoli, then alone connected with politics of Logrono, upon an mission. They had then feel
in son, a blade of a wild and desultory character, whom the adventure Direction. In one of sultry
from the lands how the Quexada was saved from the complement feel of the robbers by the caravanserai
of a person. With this foreigner for he contracted that intimacy which wandering and romantic
force often conceive for each same sources, without sympathy than that s in same chase. Later,
but he discovered that his companion religion; and, with prejudice is written of cradle, recoiled
sources from the friendship he had beg, and shrank obtained from the awareness of the obligation
he had incurred he-- quitted comrade. Wearied, at length, with the locomotion, but he was
journeying homeward, when he was seized with a sudden and virulent symptom, mistaken for plague: wholly
fled from substitute to-- he was left words to die. It was long,
but however, before sleep revisited her eyelids, and when she woke the
sun streamed narrowly through lattice. At moment and more job of the
taboo of that Castillian disappear: he formed a deep and thankful
attachment for his preserver; they populate unitedly for some time,
and the Israelite finally be accompanied by the Office to Napoli.

 After the play done, I into the pit,
and there find my wife and W. Hewer; and Sheres got to them, which, so jealous is my nature,
did trouble me, though my judgment tells me there is no hurt in it, on neither side; but here
I did meet with Shadwell, the poet, who, to my great wonder, do tell me that my Lord of [Orrery]
did write this play, trying what he could do in comedy, since his heroique plays could do no
more wonders.  This do trouble me; for it is as mean a thing, and so he says, as hath been
upon the stage a great while; and Harris, who hath no part in it, did come to me, and told
me in discourse that he was glad of it, it being a play that will not take.  Thence home, and
to my business at the office, to finish it, but was in great pain about yesterday still, lest
my wife should have sent her porter to enquire anything, though for my heart I cannot see it
possible how anything could be discovered of it, but yet such is fear as to render me full
of doubt and disgust.  At night to supper and to bed.

17th.  Up, and to the office, where all the morning.  At noon at home to dinner, and there
find Mr. Pierce, the surgeon, and he dined with us; and there hearing that "The Alchymist"
was acted, we did go, and took him with us to the King's house; and it is still a good play,
having not been acted for two or three years before; but I do miss Clun, for the Doctor. But
more my eyes will not let me enjoy the pleasure I used to have in a play.

18th (Lord's day).  Thence I to White Hall Gate, thinking to have found Sir J. Minnes's coach
staying for me; but, not being there, and this being the first day of rain we have had many
a day, the streets being as dusty as in summer, I forced to walk to my cozen Turner's, and
there find my wife newly gone home, which vexed me, and so I, having kissed and taken leave
of Betty, who goes to Putney to school to-morrow, I walked through the rain to the Temple,
and there, with much ado, got a coach, and so home, and there to supper, and Pelling comes
to us, and after much talk, we parted, and to bed.

19th.  Up, and with Tom (whom, with his wife, I, and my wife, had this morning taken occasion
to tell that I did intend to give him L40 for himself, and L20 to his wife, towards their setting
out in the world, and that my wife would give her L20 more, that she might have as much to
begin with as he) by coach to White Hall, and there having set him work in the Robe Chamber,
to write something for me, I to Westminster Hall, and there walked from 10 o'clock to past
12, expecting to have met Deb., but whether she had been there before, and missing me went
away, or is prevented in coming, and hath no mind to come to me (the last whereof, as being
most pleasing, as shewing most modesty, I should be most glad of), I know not, but she not
then appearing, I being tired with walking went home, and my wife being all day at Jane's,
helping her, as she said, to cut out linen and other things belonging to her new condition,
I after dinner out again, and, calling for my coach, which was at the coachmaker's, and hath
been for these two or three days, to be new painted, and the window-frames gilt against May-day,
went on with my hackney to White Hall, and thence by water to Westminster Hall, and there did
beckon to Doll Lane, now Mrs. Powell, as she would have herself called, and went to her sister
Martin's lodgings, the first time I have been there these eight or ten months, I think, and
her sister being gone to Portsmouth to her Y husband, I did stay and talk and drink with Doll
. .  .  .  So away:; and to White Hall, and there took my own coach, which was now come, and
so away home, and there to do business, and my wife being come home we to talk and to sup,
there having been nothing yet like discovery in my wife of what hath lately passed with me
about Deb., and so with great content to bed

20th.  Up; and to the Office, and my wife abroad with Mary Batelier, with our own coach, but
borrowed Sir J Minnes's coachman, that so our own might stay at home, to attend at dinner;
our family being mightily disordered by our little boy's falling sick the last night; and we
fear it will prove the small-pox.  Thus we spent the evening with extraordinary good discourse,
to my great content, and so home to the Office, and there did some business, and then home,
where my wife do come home, and I vexed at her staying out so late, but she tells me that she
hath been at home with M. Batelier a good while, so I made nothing of it, but to supper and to bed.

21st.  Up; and with my own coach as far as the Temple, and thence sent it to my cozen Turner,
who, to ease her own horses, that are going with her out of town, do borrow mine to-day.  Then
at noon by coach home, and thither by and by comes cozen Turner, and The., and Joyce, in their
riding-clod: they being come from their lodgings to her husbands chamber, at the Temple, and
there do lie, and purpose to go out of town on Friday next; and here I had a good dinner for
them.  This we were discoursing when my boy comes to tell me that his mistress was at the Gate
with the coach, whither I went, and there find my wife and the whole company.  So she, and
Mrs. Turner, and The., and Talbot, in mine: and Joyce, W. Batelier, and I, in a hackney, to
Hyde Park, where I was ashamed to be seen; but mightily pleased, though troubled, with a drunken
coachman that did not remember when we come to 'light, where it was that he took us up; but
said at Hammersmith, and thither he was carrying of us when we come first out of the Park.
So I carried them all to Hercules-Pillars, and there did treat them: and so, about ten at night,
parted, and my wife, and I, and W. Batelier, home; and he gone, we to bed. Vexed at my wife's
not being come home, she being gone again abroad with M. Batelier, and come not home till ten
at night, which vexed me, so that I to bed, and lay in pain awake till past one, and then to sleep.

23rd.  Going to rise, without saying anything, my wife stopped me; and, after a little angry
talk, did tell me how she spent all day yesterday with M. Batelier and her sweetheart, and
seeing a play at the New Nursery, which is set up at the house in Lincoln's Inn Fields, which
was formerly the King's house.  Thence at noon, the Council rising, I to Unthanke's, and there
by agreement met my wife, and with her to the Cocke, and did give her a dinner, but yet both
of us but in an ill humour, whatever was the matter with her, but thence to the King's playhouse,
and saw "The Generous Portugalls," a play that pleases me better and better every time we see
it; and, I thank God! it did not trouble my eyes so much as I was afeard it would.  Here, by
accident, we met Mr. Sheres, and yet I could not but be troubled, because my wife do so delight
to talk of him, and to see him. Nevertheless, we took him with us to our mercer's, and to the
Exchange, and he helped me to choose a summer-suit of coloured camelott, coat and breeches,
and a flowered tabby vest very rich; and so home, where he took his leave, and down to Greenwich,
where he hath some friends; and I to see Colonel Middleton, who hath been ill for a day or
two, or three; and so home to supper, and to bed.

24th.  Up, and to the office, where all the morning, and at noon home to dinner, Mr. Sheres
dining with us by agreement; and my wife, which troubled me, mighty careful to have a handsome
dinner for him; but yet I see no reason to be troubled at it, he being a very civil and worthy
man, I think; but only it do seem to imply some little neglect of me.  After dinner to the
King's house, and there saw "The General" revived--a good play, that pleases me well, and thence,
our coach coming for us, we parted and home, and I busy late at the office, and then home to
supper and to bed.  Well pleased to-night to have Lead, the vizard-maker, bring me home my
vizard, with a tube fastened in it, which, I think, will do my business, at least in a great
measure, for the easing of my eyes.

26th.  Up, having lain long, and then by coach with W. Hewer to the Excise Office, and so to
Lilly's, the Varnishes; who is lately dead, and his wife and brother keep up the trade, and
there I left my French prints to be put on boards:, and, while I was there, a fire burst out
in a chimney of a house over against his house, but it was with a gun quickly put out.  So
to White Hall, and did a little business there at the Treasury chamber, and so homeward, calling
at the laceman's for some lace for my new suit, and at my tailor's, and so home, where to dinner,
and Mr. Sheres dined, with us, who come hither to-day to teach my wife the rules of perspective;
but I think, upon trial, he thinks it too hard to teach her, being ignorant of the principles
of lines.  And then to talk of general matters, and, by and by, Sheres being gone, my wife,
and he, and I out, and I set him down at Temple Bar, and myself and wife went down the Temple
upon seeming business, only to put him off, and just at the Temple gate I spied Deb. with another
gentlewoman, and Deb. winked on me and smiled, but undiscovered, and I was glad to see her.
So home, and there to my chamber, and got my wife to read to me a little, and so to supper
and to bed.  Coming home this night I did call at the coachmaker's, and do resolve upon having
the standards of my coach gilt with this new sort of varnish, which will come but to 40s.;
and, contrary to my expectation, the doing of the biggest coach all over comes not to above
L6, which is [not] very much.

27th.  Up, and to the Office, where all the morning.  At noon home to dinner, and then to the
Office again, where the afternoon busy till late, and then home, and got my wife to read to
me in the Nepotisme,

     [The work here mentioned is a bitter satire against the Court Rome,
     written in Italian, and attributed to Gregorio Leti.  It was first
     printed in 1667, without the name or place of printer, but it is
     from the press of the Elzevirs.  The book obtained by Pepys was
     probably the anonymous English translation, "Il Nipotismo di Roma:
     or the history of the Popes nephews from the time of Sixtus the IV.
     to the death the last Pope Alexander the VII. In two parts.  Written
     originally Italian in the year 1667 and Englished by W. A. London,
     1669" 8vo. From this work the word Nepotism is derived, and is
     applied to the bad practice of statesmen, when in power, providing
     lucrative places for their relations.]

which is very pleasant, and so to supper and to bed.  This afternoon was brought to me a fresh
Distringas upon the score of the Tangier accounts which vexes me, though I hope it will not
turn to my wrong.  He gone, I to the office, where busy till noon, and then home to dinner,
where W. Batelier dined with us, and pretty merry, and so I to the office again.  This morning
Mr. Sheres sent me, in two volumes, Mariana his History of Spaine, in Spanish, an excellent
book; and I am much obliged for it to him.

29th.  Up, and to the Office, where all the morning, and at noon dined at
home, and then to the Office again, there to despatch as much business as
I could, that I might be at liberty to-morrow to look after my many things
that I have to do, against May-day.  So at night home to supper and to
bed.  At
night home, and there find my wife hath been making herself clean against
to-morrow; and, late as it was, I did send my coachman and horses to fetch
home the coach to-night, and so we to supper, myself most weary with
walking and standing so much, to see all things fine against to-morrow,
and so to bed.  God give a blessing to it! Meeting with Mr. Sheres, he
went with me up and down to several places, and, among others, to buy a
perriwig, but I bought none; and also to Dancre's, where he was about my
picture of Windsor, which is mighty pretty, and so will the prospect of
Rome be.
                                  MAY
                                  1669

May 1st.  Up betimes.  Called up by my tailor, and there first put on a summer suit this year;
but it was not my fine one of flowered tabby vest, and coloured camelott tunique, because it
was too fine with the gold lace at the hands, that I was afeard to be seen in it; but put on
the stuff suit I made the last year, which is now repaired; and so did go to the Office in
it, and sat all the morning, the day looking as if it would be fowle.  But here was W. Batelier
and his sister in a borrowed coach by themselves, and I took them and we to the lodge; and
at the door did give them a syllabub, and other things, cost me 12s., and pretty merry.  And
so back to the coaches, and there till the evening, and then home, leaving Mr. Sheres at St.
James's Gate, where he took leave of us for altogether, he; being this night to set out for
Portsmouth post, in his way to Tangier, which troubled my wife mightily, who is mighty, though
not, I think, too fond of him.  But she was out of humour all the evening, and I vexed at her
for it, and she did not rest almost all the night, so as in the night I was forced; to take
her and hug her to put her to rest. So home, and after a little supper, to bed.

2nd (Lord's day).  So home and to supper, and my wife to read, and Tom, my Nepotisme, and then
to bed.  Thence home, and at the office busy all the afternoon, and so to supper and to bed.

4th.  Up, and to the office, and then my wife being gone to see her mother at Deptford, I before
the office sat went to the Excise Office, and thence being alone stepped into Duck Lane, and
thence tried to have sent a porter to Deb.'s, but durst not trust him, and therefore having
bought a book to satisfy the bookseller for my stay there, a 12d. book, Andronicus of Tom Fuller,
I took coach, and at the end of Jewen Street next Red Cross Street I sent the coachman to her
lodging, and understand she is gone for Greenwich to one Marys's, a tanner's, at which I, was
glad, hoping to have opportunity to find her out; and so, in great fear of being seen, I to
the office, and there all the morning, dined at home, and presently after dinner comes home
my wife, who I believe is jealous of my spending the day, and I had very good fortune in being
at home, for if Deb. had been to have been found it is forty to one but I had been abroad,
God forgive me. So the afternoon at the office, and at night walked with my wife in the garden,
and my Lord Brouncker with us, who is newly come to W. Pen's lodgings; and by and by comes
Mr. Hooke; and my Lord, and he, and I into my Lord's lodgings, and there discoursed of many
fine things in philosophy, to my great content, and so home to supper and to bed.

5th.  Up, and thought to have gone with Lord Brouncker to Mr. Hooke this morning betimes; but
my Lord is taken ill of the gout, and says his new lodgings have infected him, he never having
had any symptoms of it till now.  Thence home, where my wife ill of those upon the maid's bed,
and troubled at my being abroad.  So I to the office, and there till night, and then to her,
and she read to me the Epistle of Cassandra, which is very good indeed; and the better to her,
because recommended by Sheres.  So to supper, and to bed.

6th.  Up, and by coach to Sir W. Coventry's, but he gone out.  I by water back to the Office,
and there all the morning; then to dinner, and then to the Office again, and anon with my wife
by coach to take the ayre, it being a noble day, as far as the Greene Man, mightily pleased
with our journey, and our condition of doing it in our own coach, and so home, and to walk
in the garden, and so to supper and to bed, my eyes being bad with writing my journal, part
of it, to-night.

7th.  So to the Treasury chamber, and then walked home round by the Excise Office, having by
private vows last night in prayer to God Almighty cleared my mind for the present of the thoughts
of going to Deb. at Greenwich, which I did long after.  I passed by Guildhall, which is almost
finished, and saw a poor labourer carried by, I think, dead with a fall, as many there are,
I hear. So home to dinner, and then to the office a little, and so to see my Lord Brouncker,
who is a little ill of the gout; and there Madam Williams told me that she heard that my wife
was going into France this year, which I did not deny, if I can get time, and I pray God I
may.  But I wondering how she come to know it, she tells me a woman that my wife spoke to for
a maid, did tell her so, and that a lady that desires to go thither would be glad to go in
her company.  Thence with my wife abroad, with our coach, most pleasant weather; and to Hackney,
and into the marshes, where I never was before, and thence round about to Old Ford and Bow;
and coming through the latter home, there being some young gentlewomen at a door, and I seeming
not to know who they were, my wife's jealousy told me presently that I knew well enough it
was that damned place where Deb. dwelt, which made me swear very angrily that it was false,
as it was, and I carried [her] back again to see the place, and it proved not so, so I continued
out of humour a good while at it, she being willing to be friends, so I was by and by, saying
no more of it.  So home, and there met with a letter from Captain Silas Taylor, and, with it,
his written copy of a play that he hath wrote, and intends to have acted.--It is called "The
Serenade, or Disappointment," which I will read, not believing he can make any good of that
kind.  He did once offer to show Harris it, but Harris told him that he would judge by one
Act whether it were good or no, which is indeed a foolish saying, and we see them out themselves
in the choice of a play after they have read the whole, it being sometimes found not fit to
act above three times; nay, and some that have been refused at one house is found a good one
at the other.  This made Taylor say he would not shew it him, but is angry, and hath carried
it to the other house, and he thinks it will be acted there, though he tells me they are not
yet agreed upon it.  But I will find time to get it read to me, and I did get my wife to begin
a little to-night in the garden, but not so much as I could make any judgment of it.  So home
to supper and to bed.

8th.  Up, and to the Office, and there comes Lead to me, and at last my vizards are done, and
glasses got to put in and out, as I will; and I think I have brought it to the utmost, both
for easiness of using and benefit, that I can; and so I paid him 15s. for what he hath done
now last, in the finishing them, and they, I hope, will do me a great deal of ease.  At the
Office all the morning, and this day, the first time, did alter my side of the table, after
above eight years sitting on that next the fire.  But now I am not able to bear the light of
the windows in my eyes, I do begin there, and I did sit with much more content than I had done
on the other side for a great while, and in winter the fire will not trouble my back.  So to
the office, and there late at business, and then home to supper and to bed.

9th (Lord's day).  Up; and, after dressing in my best suit with gold trimming, I to the Office,
and there with Gibson and Tom finishing against to-morrow my notes upon Commanders' Instructions;
and, when church-time, to church with my wife, leaving them at work.  Dr. Mills preached a
dull sermon, and so we home to dinner; and thence by coach to St. Andrew's, Holborne, thinking
to have heard Dr. Stillingfleete preach, but we could not get a place, and so to St. Margaret's,
Westminster, and there heard a sermon, and did get a place, the first we have heard there these
many years, and here at a distance I saw Betty Michell, but she is become much a plainer woman
than she was a girl.  Thence towards the Park, but too soon to go in, so went on to Knightsbridge,
and there eat and drank at "The World's End," where we had good things, and then back to the
Park, and there till night, being fine weather, and much company, and so home, and after supper
to bed.  This day I first left off both my waistcoats by day, and my waistcoat by night, it
being very hot weather, so hot as to make me break out, here and there, in my hands, which
vexes me to see, but is good for me.

10th.

11th.  My wife again up by four o'clock, to go to gather May-dew; and so back home by seven,
to bed, and by and by I up and to the office, where all the morning, and dined at noon at home
with my people, and so all the afternoon.  In the evening my wife and I all alone, with the
boy, by water, up as high as Putney almost, with the tide, and back again, neither staying
going nor coming; but talking, and singing, and reading a foolish copy of verses upon my Lord
Mayor's entertaining of all the bachelors, designed in praise to my Lord Mayor, and so home
and to the office a little, and then home to bed, my eyes being bad.  Some trouble at Court
for fear of the Queen's miscarrying; she being, as they all conclude, far gone with child.

12th.  Up, and to Westminster Hall, where the term is, and this the first day of my being there,
and here by chance met Roger Pepys, come to town the last night: I was glad to see him.  After
some talk with him and others, and among others Sir Charles Harbord and Sidney Montagu, the
latter of whom is to set out to-morrow towards Flanders and Italy, I invited them to dine with
me to-morrow, and so to Mrs. Martin's lodging, who come to town last night, and there je did
hazer her, she having been a month, I think, at Portsmouth with her husband, newly come home
from the Streights.  But, Lord!  how silly the woman talks of her great entertainment there,
and how all the gentry come to visit her, and that she believes her husband is worth L6 or
L700, which nevertheless I am glad of, but I doubt they will spend it a fast.  Thence home,
and after dinner my wife and I to the Duke of York's playhouse, and there, in the side balcony,
over against the musick, did hear, but not see, a new play, the first day acted, "The Roman
Virgin," an old play, and but ordinary, I thought; but the trouble of my eyes with the light
of the candles did almost kill me.  Thence to my Lord Sandwich's, and there had a promise from
Sidney to come and dine with me to-morrow; and so my wife and I home in our coach, and there
find my brother John, as I looked for, come to town from Ellington, where, among other things,
he tell me the first news that my [sister Jackson] is with child, and fat gone, which I know
not whether it did more trouble or please me, having no great care for my friends to have children;
though I love other people's.  So, glad to see him, we to supper, and so to bed.

13th.  Up, and to the office, where all the morning, it being a rainy foul day.

14th. Thence to Unthanke's, and there find my wife, but not dressed, which vexed me, because
going to the Park, it being a most pleasant day after yesterday's rain, which lays all the
dust, and most people going out thither, which vexed me.

15th.  Up, and at the Office all the morning.  Dined at home and Creed with me home, and I
did discourse about evening some reckonings with him in the afternoon; but I could not, for
my eyes, do it, which troubled me, and vexed him that would not; but yet we were friends, I
advancing him more without it, and so to walk all the afternoon together in the garden; and
I perceive still he do expect a change in of matters, especially as to religion, and fits himself
for it by professing himself for it in his discourse.  He gone, I to my business at my Office,
and so at night home to supper, and to bed.

16th (Lord's day).  My wife and I at church, our pew filled with Mrs. Backewell, and six more
that she brought with her, which vexed me at her confidence.

17th.  Up, and to several places doing business, and the home to dinner, and then my wife and
I and brother John by coach to the King's playhouse, and saw "The Spanish Curate" revived,
which is a pretty good play, but my eyes troubled with seeing it, mightily.  Thence carried
them and Mr. Gibson, who met me at my Lord Brouncker's with a fair copy of my petition, which
I thought to shew the Duke of York this night, but could not, and therefore carried them to
the Park, where they had never been, and so home to supper and to bed. 

They seemed of a peculiarly unsuspicious turn of mind, and certainly wore the quaintest of head-dresses.
I must advert besides a redbird, who, all afire as he was, one day alighted in a bush of flowering
dogwood, which was completely covered with its interested celebrated blossoms. Likely he
had no idea how well his perch became him. Perhaps i ought to be ashamed to confess it, but,
though i went several times into the gallery of our honorable Senate
and Firm of all Representatives, and learn speeches by some far men,
including at least half a dozen candidates for the presidency, yet,
after all, the congressmen in feathers busy me most.

White by, in an undergrowth, i fell in with a few worm-eating warblers.
  Up and to the
Office, where all the morning.  Yesterday, at my coming home, I found that my wife had, on
a sudden, put away Matt upon some falling out, and I doubt my wife did call her ill names by
my wife's own discourse; but I did not meddle to say anything upon it, but let her go, being
not sorry, because now we may get one that speaks French, to go abroad with us.

21st.  I waited with the Office upon the Duke of York in the morning. Dined at home, where
Lewis Phillips the friend of his, dined with me. In the afternoon at the Office.  In the evening
visited by Roger Pepys and Philip Packer and so home.

22nd.  Dined at home, the rest of the whole day at office.

23rd (Lord's day).  Called up by Roger Pepys and his son who to church with me, and then home
to dinner.  In the afternoon carried them to Westminster, and myself to James's, where, not
finding the Duke of York, back home, and with my wife spent the evening taking the ayre about
Hackney, with great pleasure, and places we had never seen before.

24th.  W. Hewer and I dined alone at the Swan; and thence having thus waited on the King, spent
till four o'clock in St. James's Park, when I met my wife at Unthanke's, and so home.

25th.  Dined at home; and the rest of the day, morning and afternoon, at the Office.  Expected
a meeting of Tangier this afternoon, but failed.  So home, met by my wife at Unthanke's.!

27th.  At the office all the morning, dined at home, Mr. Hollier with me. Presented this day
by Mr. Browne with a book of drawing by him, lately printed, which cost me 20s. to him.  In
the afternoon to the Temple, to meet with Auditor Aldworth about my interest account, but failed
meeting him.  To visit my cozen Creed, and found her ill at home, being with child, and looks
poorly.  Thence to her husband, at Gresham College, upon some occasions of Tangier; and so
home, with Sir John Bankes with me, to Mark Lane.  At noon Mr. Gibson and I dined at the Swan,
and thence doing this at Brook house, and thence caking at the Excise Office for an account
of payment of my tallies for Tangier, I home, and thence with my wife and brother spent the
evening on the water, carrying our supper with us, as high as Chelsea; so home, making sport
with the Westerne bargees, and my wife and I singing, to my great content.  Dined at home,
and in the afternoon by water to White Hall, calling by the way at Michell's, where I have
not been many a day till just the other day, and now I met her mother there and knew her husband
to be out of town.  And here je did baiser elle, but had not opportunity para hazer some with
her as I would have offered if je had had it.

END OF THE DIARY.

                              PREFACE

              [This moved, by the editor, to the end
              where it seems to fit more comfortably.]

First issue of this edition June, 1896. Reprinted 1897.

In the present volume the Diary is completed, and we here take leave of a writer who has done
so much to interest and enlighten successive generations of English readers, and who is now
for the first time presented to the world as he really drew his own portrait day by day.

No one who has followed the daily notes of Samuel Pepys from January, 1660, to May, 1669, but
must feel sincere regret at their abrupt conclusion, more particularly as the writer lays down
his pen while in an unhappy temper.

It is evident from the tone of his later utterances that Pepys thought that he was going blind,
a belief which was happily falsified.  The holiday tour in which Charles II. and James, Duke
of York, took so much interest appears to have had its desired effect in restoring the Diarist
to health.

The rest of his eventful life must be sought in the history of the English Navy which he helped
to form, and in his numerous letters, which on some future occasion the present editor hopes
to annotate. Observations so discursive as these can hardly be finished; they must break on abruptly,
or else go off forever. I should be
ashamed not to be able to add that i respected his street courage,
and left him and his castle.
All must agree with Coleridge when he wrote on the margin of a copy of the Diary: "Truly may
it be said that this was a greater and more grievous loss to the mind's eye of posterity than
to the bodily organs of Pepys himself. It makes me restless and discontented to think what
a Diary equal in minuteness and truth of portraiture to the preceding from 1669 to 1688 or
1690 would have been for the true causes, process and character of the Revolution."

Most works of this nature are apt to tire when they are extended over a certain length of time,
but Pepys's pages are always fresh, and most readers wish for more.  For himself the editor
can say that each time he has read over the various proofs he has read with renewed interest,
so that it is with no ordinary feelings of regret that he comes to the end of his task, and
he believes that every reader will feel the same regret that he has no more to read.

In reviewing the Diary it is impossible not to notice the growth of historical interest as
it proceeds.  In the earlier period we find Pepys surrounded by men not otherwise known, but
as the years pass, and his position becomes more assured, we find him in daily communication
with the chief men of his day, and evidently every one who came in contact with him appreciated
his remarkable ability.  The survival of the Diary must ever remain a marvel.  It could never
have been intended for the reading of others, but doubtless the more elaborate portraits of
persons in the later pages were intended for use when Pepys came to write his projected history
of the Navy.

The only man who is uniformly spoken well of in the Diary is Sir William Coventry, and many
of the characters introduced come in for severe castigation.  It is therefore the more necessary
to remember that many of the judgments on men were set down hastily, and would probably have
been modified had occasion offered.  At all events, we know that, however much he may have
censured them, Pepys always helped on those who were dependent upon him.

H. R. W.

