"Accomplices after the fact. Besides, it would then come out that we had taken over and shared
among us his stuff, fifty thousand apiece. It's a deplorable situation we're in, gentlemen,
deplorable. If we were but able to start the story Joe Weir believed and fled because of, it
would cut the ground out from under this man's feet at once."

"It's him we'll cut, not the ground under him," Burkhardt growled, thrusting his hairy chin
forward towards the lawyer. "And cut his damned throat."

"I hate to think of our being forced to--to homicide. Even justifiable homicide."

"Homicide nothing! It's just killing a rattlesnake waiting in the brush to strike. That's the
way we used to do in the old days, and if he's going to bring them back that's what we'll do
again."

Sorenson smiled grimly.

"We'll wait till we're sure he has the proofs, then----"

"Then we'll act quick and sure," Vorse shot out.

"And quietly," the cattleman added. "We'll take no more chances this time. It will be arranged
carefully beforehand; all four of us will be in it, of course,--equal responsibility; and there'll
be no witnesses."

Judge Gordon's face wore a pallid, sickish look.

"I hope to God there's some other way out of it," he muttered.

"So do all of us," Burkhardt snarled. "But if there isn't, it means guns. For you, too, along
with the rest of us."

Sorenson leaned forward and gazed from under his heavy brows, compelling Gordon to meet his
fixed look.

"You were keen enough at the time for your share of Joe Weir's stuff," he said. As fine days
after summer and fishing, whole fleets of a strange voyagers appear off our coasts. Their
size-colourless, long lines float almost at the yard, and their naked autumn-disks while on
they as them move well.

Of times, multitudes, perfectly transparent in a eye, shaped much wave,
but measure it through form the crest of night; trail difficulty brows
give as most in these water deserves in Acalephæ.

The diameter present the greatest variety of other and colour, as so that by umbrella, but
they are all of the every delicate structure, gelatinous, frail, invisible. Some are onward gracefully
tenant, as their presence can with flame be detected to the water. We were not only all in on the Weir job, but the Dent killing--all of us. Remember that.
If the facts become known, we'll be run into some other county and court and hanged. And every
enemy we've made in these years past will put up his head and clamor for our blood. Let that
sink into your mind."

The effect of this low fierce utterance was to hammer the truth home. The Judge was ashen.
Vorse's face appeared like an evil mask. Burkhardt glowered savagely.

At that instant there sounded the faint report of a shot in the street. Then as the group sat
unmoving, rigid, keyed to the highest pitch of expectancy, there followed quickly two more
shots. Afterwards, silence.

"A gun-play!" issued from Vorse's lips, softly.

They all sprang up to hasten to the door.

CHAPTER V

A SHOT IN THE DARK

Steele Weir driving his car down the street in the dusk had caught sight of Felipe Martinez
standing near the cattle company's office. He stopped close by, beckoned. Martinez would do
as well as another.

"You're a notary, I suppose?" he questioned.

"Yes, Mr. Weir. Most of us lawyers here are," he replied politely, when he had advanced.

"I've some papers I want acknowledged to-night. Must get them into the mail going down to Bowenville
in the morning."

"Only too pleased to facilitate your business, Mr. Weir. My office is down a few doors."

"Jump in."

"It's but a few steps."

"Then I'll get out here." And the engineer stopped the engine and descended to the ground.

Along the street open doorways and windows were already beginning to make yellow panels of
lamplight in the thin gloom. The air was still warm, balmy, scented by the lingering aroma
of the greasewood smoke of supper fires in Mexican ovens. Stars were jeweling the sky. Few
persons moved in the twilight.

One of these was a man who, standing at the door of a native saloon across the street and a
little farther up, had come diagonally over towards the bank on seeing the engineer halt his
car. He walked with a slouching haste seldom exhibited by a Mexican and gained the spot as
Weir stepped out. There he slackened his pace while he scanned the American with an intense,
slow gaze that the engineer, chancing to raise his eyes, squarely met.

The Mexicans always looked at him and fell silent when he passed since he had shown who was
master at the dam. In the eyes of some was merely stupid curiosity, in some a shrinking, and
in many a half-veiled hostility. That did not trouble Weir. In Mexico he had dealt with recalcitrant
workmen of more lawless nature than these. He usually ignored them altogether now as they no
longer were in his employ. But this man seized his attention.

It was not yet too dark to mark his face as he lounged past, slowly turning his head about
as he progressed until his chin was on his shoulder, staring back. His look the while remained
riveted on Weir--a steady, contemplative, evil regard. In Chihuahua the engineer had once seen
a notorious local "killer" who had that same gaze.

Martinez had also glanced at the fellow.

"Who is that man? One of the discharged workmen?" Weir asked him, when moving forward they
in turn had passed the Mexican.

"No, I imagine not. At any rate, he doesn't belong in San Mateo or anywhere hereabouts. I know
everybody for fifty miles, for I've been active in social and political affairs. He's unknown
to me. A stranger." Then a little farther along: "Here is my office, Mr. Weir. I'll have a
light in an instant. Ah, now. Be so good as to have a chair and we'll expedite your business."

As Martinez filled out the acknowledgment blanks on the papers, his eyes furtively skipped
over the vital portions of the documents. The latter were connected with company business.
He had hoped they would be personal so that he might learn something more of this manager's
affairs, possibly more of his secret antagonism for Sorenson and his friends. Any intrigue
appealed to the thin, slippery lawyer's soul, but most of all some one's else intrigue into
which he might profitably put a finger. However, from these papers he was to learn nothing.

He had considered all possibilities of the affair, all possible solutions of what long ago
might have occurred between Joseph Weir, undoubtedly the father of the man sitting across the
table from him, and the four men now conferring in Sorenson's office. This was no petty squabble,
he divined. There was something going on under the surface that was big--big! And very dangerous
too, for the spirit of that moment in Vorse's bar was not to be mistaken; it had been tense,
electric. Utmost caution on Martinez's part would therefore be necessary.

As between the two parties, his sympathies at present inclined towards Weir. The refusal on
the latter's part to reëmploy the Mexican workmen on their own terms was purely a matter of
policy, and the lawyer's first gusty anger had long been forgotten. But not so Sorenson's sneering
words of that afternoon. They struck to the heart of his vanity, breeding an animosity that
would last. Had not the banker stated that the lawyer should hold no political office whatever?
After all his services? Had he not definitely shown that Martinez might never expect anything
there? Well, the lawyer wasn't one tamely to yield his rights; he did not propose always to
remain a scrimping, pettifogging attorney, existing on crumbs.

When with a flourish he had appended his name to the acknowledgments and affixed his seal,
he sat back thoughtfully studying the engineer, who was carefully examining the paragraphs
for errors. He knew his business, did Martinez; the man would find no mistakes. Then the lawyer's
eyes suddenly glistened. He arose and closed the door as Weir thrust the documents into a stout
linen envelope, addressed and stamped.

"I'll be pleased to see your letter goes in the mail in the morning," he said, returning to
his place. "The stage leaves at eight-thirty."

"Post-office is closed now, I suppose. Very well. It will be an accommodation," the engineer
responded.

Martinez leaned forward.

"If you can spare the time, I should like to have a little talk with you," said he. "Pardon
me if I appear presumptuous, but as you're aware, Mr. Weir, I overheard your words to Judge
Gordon in Vorse's saloon. I inferred--check me at any instant if you consider this none of
my business!--that there exists some unpleasant feeling between you two gentlemen and possibly
others. Judge Gordon has always handled the company's business in his private capacity of counselor.
As you know, he's a silent partner in many enterprises with Sorenson, Vorse and a man named
Burkhardt. They run this town and county. You should also know that they're secretly opposed
to your irrigation project, whatever they profess. They've misled the people into believing
it will work an injury to this district, whereas it will of course be beneficial. Unfortunately
too they lead the people by the noses--but not me! I refuse to be subservient."

He paused to note the effect of his words.

"Now, Mr. Weir, these are facts you can confirm if you're not already informed of them, which
I imagine you are. Because I'm independent in my opinions and actions, I stand in disfavor
with these gentlemen, which may or may not be an objection in your view to what I have in mind.
And this is it. I should be pleased to execute any legal work that you care to give me; it
might be of advantage to your company at times to have an attorney other than Judge Gordon,
who is aligned against you and will serve his own interests first. He's in a position to cause
you embarrassment."

"Our eastern attorneys draw all documents."

"Of course. But I was thinking of delays more than anything else. There are a thousand ways
a lawyer can push or halt matters at will, and your project will never be free of legal red
tape until completed--if then! I'm not unselfish in this, I admit; the business would be valuable
to me. But aside from that, I'll give you this advice anyway:--secure another lawyer in any
case, one without antagonistic personal interests, if you can find another in San Mateo besides
me. See, I'm frank! That may sound egotistical, but really I'm the only free man of the lawyers
here. And I've paid for my liberty!" He made a sweeping gesture to indicate his shabby office.
"If I had taken orders, I could have been county attorney and probably a judge. But I respect
myself too much to take orders from Sorenson and his bunch. I choose this sort of thing in
preference."

Steele Weir maintained a non-committal silence. Again the thin dark-skinned lawyer swiftly
weighed the man before him, considered the dangers in which he might become involved if he
went a step farther, recoiled, then grew bolder. Sorenson had marked him for poverty and nonentity;
under the favoring shelter of the irrigation company's power he might arise from both. For
at moments the acute Mexican sensed the inevitable victory of the new forces at work; this,
one of the last strong-holds of old time cattle and sheep interests, would break down and yield
to the plow and fence.

"Now, there's something more, though I hesitate to mention it," he went on, doubtfully. "While
Sorenson and his crowd run things, it's not because the people--and that means us Mexicans
chiefly--love them. We're indolent by nature; we idle rather than work; borrow when we can
rather than earn--I speak of our race, but we're learning that work proves best in the long
run. These men have squeezed my people, and robbed them, and kept them down. Nothing more would
I wish than to see these leaders deposed. It's no secret they've built their wealth by questionable
methods, but who can prove it?

"Do you know what I suspect? You have something on Sorenson's crowd. That's why they're uneasy;
that's why the four are sitting over in the cattle company's office this minute with their
heads together, meeting the minute Sorenson arrives home. I saw them go in. Leaving aside the
question of your own affairs, I'd like to have matters changed here in this county so that
every man has a fair chance. Anything that will bring that about enlists my interest. When
I heard your statement to Gordon and saw his face, I knew there was something in the past that
alarmed him. I recalled a name I had once run across when abstracting a title----"

It was not this ingenious twisting of the truth that caused the lawyer to become filled with
sudden dismay and stop, but the savage hardening of the engineer's face.

"Go on," Weir commanded.

"Well, the name was Joseph Weir. I looked it up again to be sure, and found the property had
been deeded to Sorenson and the others, who still have it. I wondered----"

"What did you wonder?" came with a devouring look.

"If--if Joseph Weir received consideration according to law." Martinez' courage flowed back
again. "I'll make no attempt to justify my curiosity, sir, except to say that more than one
man in the southwest was done out of property in early days; and the practice has not ceased,
for that matter. But in these days the means is usually legal and Mexicans the victims. Sharp
mortgage dealings and so forth. Now, if I've said too much, I'll instantly forget all about
it. On the other hand----"

"Well?"

"I might be of assistance. If you wish to look into that old transaction, that is. If there
was anything crooked about the deal, and I set it down that there was with Sorenson mixed in,
and with Vorse and Burkhardt the witnesses named in the deed and Judge Gordon taking the acknowledgment
of Joseph Weir's signature, as the record shows, then there should be some weak spot that could
be attacked. There may be men yet alive conversant with the circumstances; they may know whether
duress or fraud was exercised, supposing the sale was not honest. Some of the old Mexicans
may remember Weir, and could give a clue; they have good memories for things of those days.
Of course, if the transaction was all right, then I'm all wrong in my suppositions."

Weir arose.

"I can give you some of the company business, perhaps considerable of it," he said.

Martinez sprang up, an expression of gratitude upon his face. He had not realized all that
he had hoped for, but he was nevertheless delighted.

"I'm really sincere when I give you a thousand thanks, Mr. Weir," said he, spreading his arms
wide. "I'll not make promises as to the efficiency of my services; let results speak for themselves."

"I always do," was the comment. "But I'll tell you what I demand in any one associated with
me--absolute trustworthiness first of all, then loyalty and ability."

"Which leaves nothing," Martinez smiled.

He preceded the engineer and swung the door open, stepping aside. To the visitor's question
regarding fees for the acknowledgments taken, he waved a declining hand.

"Nothing, nothing. Delighted to render you the service."

"Very well."

"I'll attend to the letter," the lawyer again assured him.

"Come out to the dam in a day or two."

"To-morrow, if you wish."

"To-morrow afternoon will do."

Steele Weir's frame filled the lighted doorway as he stepped forth from the office. He paused
to accustom his eyes to the darkness, for during his colloquy with the attorney full night
had descended. On the same side of the street with himself and perhaps twelve or fifteen paces
off he saw a girl's figure appear and disappear before a window as she moved along.

Then suddenly a tongue of red flame darted at him across the street, where lay a space of unlighted
gloom. His hat was whipped off his head. The sharp report of a shot cracked between the adobe
walls. With an unbelievably rapid movement Steele Weir drew the revolver in his pocket, and
which he had carried ever since his encounter with young Sorenson in the restaurant, fired
twice where he had seen the flame and leaped aside into the darkness beside the doorway. There
he waited, half crouching, for a further attack.

But none came. Men began to run towards the place. Shouts and calls echoed along the street.
In two minutes a crowd was surging before Martinez' door wildly asking questions.

Weir pocketed his pistol and walked back into the office, where he found his bullet-pierced
hat lying on the floor and the attorney standing frozen with astonishment. A stream of people
followed at his heels.

"Who did this shooting? Do you know, Felipe?" a tall raw-boned white man who led them asked
hastily.

"This gentleman, Mr. Weir, was fired on, sheriff," Martinez burst out volubly.

"And I fired in return," the engineer stated. "The fellow was across the street in the dark.
You might look over there."

Turning and pushing his way through the packed door, the sheriff disappeared. The crowd melted
away again. Presently as Weir glanced about he saw a new figure at the doorway, staring at
him. He went towards the girl there outlined in the lamplight.

"Was that you I saw moving along just before the exchange of compliments, Miss Hosmer?" he asked.

"Yes. I was coming towards you on my way home."

"It probably gave you a fright."

"It did, indeed. I heard the shot and saw your hat knocked off. I just went cold in my tracks.
At first I believed you killed."

"I'm very much alive, as you see."

"But it was dreadful! Who would fire at you from the dark? Some one tried to murder you!"

"It looks like it. Still here I am, ready to move your car out of the water next time it's
stalled."

She entered the room slowly.

"Who in San Mateo would do such a terrible thing, Mr. Martinez?" she addressed the lawyer.
The pallor was still on her face and her eyes were large with horror.

"Ah, Miss Janet, if we but knew! We'd lay hands on him and send him to the penitentiary."

Real emotion struggled in the lawyer's words. With the return of his senses he had just begun
to realize by what a narrow margin the assassin's bullet had missed destroying his future client
and prospects.

A growing murmur across the street attracted their attention. Then as they continued to chat
of the event, the sheriff reappeared, directing half a dozen men who laid a burden in the light
of Martinez' doorway.

"You got him," he said to Weir, with ominous significance. "One bullet through the head, one
through his stomach. He's good and dead."

Weir walked forward and inspected that outstretched figure. It was the man whose gaze had been
so malevolently fastened upon him as he joined Martinez before Sorenson's office.

"Who is he?" he asked.

"A strange Mexican. Some of these men say he showed up this morning and hung around the saloons,
not talking much. Haven't you ever seen him, before?" The question expressed a perplexed curiosity.

"Once. When Martinez and I were coming here to transact some business. He was taking a good
look at me then when he passed us. That wasn't over half an hour ago. Never saw him before that."

"He shot at you first?"

"I had just stepped out of this room. Could I see him hiding over there? Or know he was there?"
Then he added, "I was taken by surprise, but I marked the flash of his gun."

The sheriff, Madden by name, looked at Weir appreciatively.

"You can use a gun yourself," said he, briefly.

Martinez now repeated the fact of the dead man having fired the first shot, which Janet Hosmer
confirmed.

"Well, is there anything more?" Weir questioned.

"Not to-night, I reckon," Madden replied. "We'll have an inquest in the morning; show up then.
Where will I find your father, Miss Hosmer?"

"At home." Then to the engineer she explained, "Father acts in the absence of the coroner,
who's away just now."

"I'm very sorry this happened on your account," said he.

"And I'm very glad you were not hurt."

Outside the corpse was being borne away, followed by the curious, avid crowd of Mexicans.

"You're still shaken by the thing," said Steele Weir. "It's enough to upset any girl. Let me
walk home with you, or you may be starting at shadows all the way."

CHAPTER VI

JANET HOSMER

A silvery brightness shone in the east as they came out of Martinez' office, that increased
as they went forward until all at once the moon arose into view, lighting the street, disclosing
the flanking lines of squat buildings, revealing the tall cottonwoods about the court house
and elsewhere thrust up in the town.

Janet Hosmer breathed a sigh of relief. The darkness had seemed potent for further evil, but
now it was as if the latter retreated with the shadows. She felt a desire to go on alone, to
separate herself from this companion with whom chance had brought her in contact at a dramatic
moment, to get away from the whole terrible affair. Involuntarily her spirit shrank at the
nearness of the man, for though he had struck back in self-defense he nevertheless had killed
another and the act somehow appeared to set him apart from ordinary men, isolate him, give
him the character of an Ishmael.

Yet her feelings were confused. Against this inclination was an avid curiosity, or rather a
wonderment, as to what must now be occurring in his soul. Her eyes sought his face as he walked
beside her. Neither had spoken; and his countenance wore the same stern contained aspect, calm,
forceful, as the first time she had ever observed it. But what was below the surface? What
were the thoughts now revolving in his mind and the emotions flowing in his breast? She could
read nothing on that composed mask of a face. Was it possible for a man to slay another human
being, even justifiably, without suffering a hurricane of the spirit?

But perhaps he had killed men before. The fact of his carrying a weapon and his swift deadly
fire pointed ominously to previous experience.

"Did you ever shoot any one before?" popped from between her lips. Then she stopped, clapping
her hand over her mouth in consternation and staring at him palely.

Weir had halted too. He regarded her in silence for a little, a slight smile resting on his
face. They stood before the cattle company's office and his look went past her once to embrace
the small darkened building.

"I'm not a murderer by trade, if that's what you mean," said he, at last. "But I've killed
a man or two before, yes." Then at the white anguish of her lips and cheeks, his tone softened
a degree as he went on. "Unfortunately since becoming of age I've had to fight. If not men,
then the earth. If not the earth, then men. Sometimes both together. You saw what happened
to-night; that fellow was unknown to me. He was not a workman who had been discharged and felt
he had a grievance----"

"Oh, no!" she interjected. "The Mexicans here wouldn't attempt to murder you, however angry
they might feel."

"I'm not so sure of that," he answered.

"But I am; I know them, I've lived among them!"

"Well, let that go. The man tried to kill me, at any rate. However, he was merely a tool, hired
for the business by some one else. Ordinarily I don't discuss my affairs with any one, but
since you've raised the matter I'll just say that I've enemies in San Mateo who are anxious
to dispose of me."

"Such enemies here!"

"Yes. Who would be delighted to see me lie where that dead man lies and who are apparently
determined to effect it." He touched her sleeve warningly. "But you will speak of this to no one."

"No, oh, no! Not a word!"

Steele gazed at her steadily. He already repented disclosing even so little of his private
concerns, an impulse altogether at variance with his close-mouthed habit, but he had, for some
vague reason, felt it necessary to explain his course, to justify himself to this clear-eyed,
fine-spirited girl. He could not let her rest under a misapprehension that he was a brute who
reveled in blood-spilling. And as he regarded her a conviction that she was absolutely to be
trusted settled firmly into his mind.

She would be staunch; oxen and ropes could not drag information from her once she had determined
not to speak. Yes, she would be loyal to her given word--and to her friends. Weir's eyes glanced
at the diamond on her finger. It would be a girl like her with whom he would have chosen to
mate if fate had not directed his feet on a road which seemingly left him no choice but incessant
and solitary struggle.

"I hate it all; I have nothing but crusts and nettles!" he exclaimed, with sudden fierce passion.
And with a quick movement of his hand he beckoned her on.

Submissively she accompanied him, her bosom rising and falling with a quickened rhythm. Too
much had happened, one thing piling on another, for her to sort her thoughts or to attempt
to understand things yet; and in her tossing state of mind she went at his gesture as one follows
a guide, or as a simple matter of course.

In her mental turmoil that last passionate utterance of the man played like a lambent flame.
Tense, violent, spontaneous, it had come from the heart. What harsh lot he had lived and sufferings
borne she could not even guess; but no man spoke with such unconscious bitterness who had not
undergone pain and travail of spirit. His head was now turned a little towards her as they
walked: she perceived him staring at the moonlit street, his lips compressed, his brows knit.

Then he glanced about at her, his face clearing. "Pay no attention to what I said," he remarked.
"I shouldn't have let loose that way. Hello, what's on now?"

Before them, and in front of the court house, was a packed crowd, people who had run forth
at the sound of shots, augmented by those who had since arrived upon the scene. It was motionless.

"Stand back, stand back; don't trample the body!" came Sheriff Madden's voice in an angry order.

The crowd surged a little apart in the center.

"How do you know this dead man fired the first shot?" asked some one, vehemently.

The voices went lower so that Steele Weir and Janet Hosmer, who had paused at the edge of the
throng, were able only to catch the tones.

"Who was that who questioned the sheriff?" Weir whispered.

"Mr. Burkhardt, I think. Sounded like him."

So intent were the Mexicans upon the occurrence in their midst that those close by remained
with backs towards the pair, failing to notice their presence. All craned eagerly to miss nothing
of the controversy.

"How do you know this engineer didn't start it?" came Burkhardt's voice again.

"Don't be a fool; there were witnesses."

"I'd like to talk to those witnesses. I doubt if they really saw anything. It looks to me as
if there's another side to this shooting."

"Well, of course you know--you, sitting there in Sorenson's office, as you say," was the ironical
retort.

At this juncture another voice interposed.

"Madden, we want no mistake here. This Weir doesn't bear a very good reputation for peacefulness,
from what I've learned. If this Mexican has simply been shot down----"

"Who is that?" Steele demanded of the girl. "I can't see him."

"That"--Janet Hosmer's speech faltered--"that is Mr. Sorenson. Oh, they misunderstand! Let
me push in there and tell them how it happened."

The engineer's hand closed about her arm.

"You'll do nothing of the kind," he commanded, low.

"But----"

"No. Remain quiet and listen."

Her eyes flew up to his at this extraordinary course, so injurious to his own interests. She
was anxious to press to the front and declare his innocence in the affair of everything but
defending his life from an assassin. She could not understand why he also was not eager to
spring forward, why he restrained her. Then she saw the implacable hatred on his face.

A thrill quivered through her body. The feeling she had at that instant was one of being on
the point of seeing behind the curtain of a mystery, of making a discovery so sinister that
she would gasp. Her very finger almost rested upon it. Why were Mr. Sorenson and Mr. Burkhardt
talking as they were? Trying by innuendo to make it seem her companion might have been guilty
of a crime? Could it be---- Her blood slowly congealed to ice at the horror of where her reasoning
led.

Could it be they were the enemies he meant!

Such a thing was too dreadful, too absurd. They, the respected leaders of the community, could
never put a pistol in the dead wretch's hand to slay this man beside her. Mr. Sorenson! The
father of Ed, whom---- She stared blankly at her left hand.

Yet the banker's heavy, smooth words continued to assail her ears steadily. She grasped their
import once more.

"--for the story is too thin. No man could hit another across the street in the dark as this
engineer claims, not only once but twice put a bullet where it would kill. Probably the dead
man had something on this Weir, and the latter knew it. It's not impossible he found the fellow
in his path, drew and murdered him at once, quickly put a hole in his own hat and then carried
the body across the way, running back to Martinez' office. The thing could have been done in
a minute. Martinez' himself wouldn't have seen how it was worked. I'm not saying that was exactly
how it was done, or that this Weir did actually murder him, but--investigate, Madden, investigate."

Steele Weir felt an angry tug at his sleeve. He looked around and beheld Janet Hosmer's eyes
distended with incredulity.

"Come away, come away," she whispered. "I should never have believed it if I hadn't heard with
my own ears!"

Keeping close to the line of buildings, they skirted the crowd, still unnoticed, and left it
behind. She walked with quick nervous steps; her hand yet unconsciously grasped his coat sleeve.
All the way to her home, which they found dark since a messenger had called the doctor to the
court house and the Mexican girl servant also was gone, she said nothing.

"Come up on the veranda; I want to talk," she announced when he opened the gate.

"Wouldn't it be best if you took your mind off the whole thing, by a book or something else?
I'll go."

"As if I could take my mind off! There are matters in this I must know. You may wonder when
I say it, Mr. Weir, but this happening concerns me more than you dream." Her dark glowing gaze
brooded on him with a sort of intense determination. Then she went on, "It--it involves my
whole future as well as your own, though in a different way. So come inside, if you please."

Weir in silence accompanied her upon the dark, broad, vine-clad porch. In the half-gloom he
found chairs for them.

"I'm going to the point at once," she declared. "Why did Mr. Sorenson talk in such a fashion?"
And he could feel her bending forward as if hanging on his answer.

"That's the one thing I can't discuss," said he.

"I must know, I must know."

"And unhappily I must refuse."

"Oh, Mr. Weir, if you could but understand what this involves for me, you wouldn't hesitate!
I was shocked at the shooting, but I saw its necessity on your part; you're not one to run
from a foe, a cowardly foe least of all. But what I heard there in the street horrified me.
I couldn't believe it; I can scarcely credit my ears yet. Mr. Sorenson and Mr. Burkhardt were
not near when you were attacked; they are not acquainted with the circumstances or facts as
you, Mr. Martinez and I know them; they apparently didn't appear until the crowd started away
with the dead man. Yet at once----"

"Ay, at once," Steele Weir let slip.

"At once, immediately, when they had barely heard the story, they began to tear it to pieces
and suggest another, making you out a villain. You're only an acquaintance, sir, scarcely more
than a stranger, but as I listened it outraged all my sense of justice. Mr. Sorenson, of all
men! My brain was in a whirl. But it's steady now."

The engineer failed to open his lips at her pause.

"I'm no fool, Mr. Weir; I think of other things besides dressing my hair and using a powder
puff. I can sometimes put two and two together--when I see the 'twos' clearly. Now, tell me
why Mr. Sorenson talked as he did, for I must have my eyes clear."

"Ask me anything but that, Miss Hosmer."

He sat distressed and uneasy at her prolonged muteness. Suddenly she questioned quietly:

"Are those two men the enemies you spoke of?"

"It will save me embarrassment if I go," he remarked, starting to rise. "I don't want you to
hate me, you know, and still I can't say anything."

Her grasp pulled him imperatively back.

"You shall not go yet."

"Then I can only continue to decline making answers. I frankly say that I regret having uttered
a word of explanation."

"I don't regret it. And I intend to keep questioning you, however rude you may think me. I
must know," she cried impetuously, "and I shall know! Mr. Sorenson is one of the men you referred
to, or he would never seek to direct suspicion at you. I saw the look on your face, sir, as
he spoke. But why should you two be enemies! You come here a stranger to San Mateo, or have
you been here before sometime? Did you know him before?"

Again he could feel her eyes straining at him.

"It seems mad to think of him and Mr. Burkhardt, and perhaps others, hiring some one to shoot
you down from a dark doorway. It is utterly mad--crazy. But why should they want to convict
you, in the crowd's opinion at least, of murdering the man. It would not be just trouble about
the dam--oh, no. But I can't see through it at all. Why won't you tell me? You can trust me--and
I want to help you as well as help myself. You certainly don't hold against me my silly nonsense
and unkind words of the day you brought me home from the ford."

"I didn't think them silly; they delighted me," he responded. "I hadn't had anything happen
to me so refreshing in years."

"We must be friends. Something tells me they're going to make you trouble over this shooting,
and you'll need friends."

"Something tells me you're right in both respects," he laughed.

"And friends must stick together."

"That's what they should do."

In the dusk of the vine-clad, flower-scented place where they sat he experienced the subtle
power of this intimacy. Not a soul stirred in the empty moonlit street before the house. No
sounds disturbed the warm peace of the night. In this secluded spot only there ran the murmur
of their voices.

"I could never stand by and see any man unjustly accused and defamed if I knew he was innocent,
without lifting up my word in defense," she proceeded. "But let me ask if on your side you're
treating me fairly?"

Weir could have groaned.

"You have a noble spirit, Miss Hosmer. You're more courageous and kind than any girl I've ever
known. Would you have me reveal what my best judgment tells me should remain untold?"

"But what of me? Would you keep it to yourself if my future happiness might turn on it?"

The appeal in her words shook Steele's heart.

"How does this business affect your happiness? How?" he asked, in perplexity.

Now it was her turn to hesitate. Why should she pause, indeed, before telling to this man what
every one else knew. Yet hesitate she did, from a feeling she could but partly analyze. Of
her fiancé she had already had disturbing secret doubts that had increased of late: doubts
of his habits, his character and the genuineness of his love; so that it was with a little
eddy of dissatisfaction and shame that she admitted the relationship. More she questioned her
own love as an actual thing. In a startling way, too, this silent, forceful man, so deadly
in earnest and so earnestly deadly, so terrible in some aspects, seemed at the instant to dwarf
the other in stature and power as if the latter were a plump manikin.

Perhaps at the last minute she had a shiver of dread at what might issue from the engineer's
lips in the way of facts if he took her at her word and told her what she had demanded to know.
Did she want to know? Suppose she let the affair rest where it was and went forward to the
future in the comfortable assurance of ignorance.

In that case, it might be wooing later revelations that then could not be escaped, revelations
like consuming lightnings. She would settle it now once for all.

"It does concern my future and my happiness vitally," she declared, earnestly. "For this reason----"

"Yes?"

"I'm engaged to marry Ed Sorenson, son of Mr. Sorenson."

Weir leaped to his feet.

"Good God! That fellow!" he exclaimed, astounded.

Without another word he sprang down the steps and strode away. Janet Hosmer, grasping the arms
of her chair and staring after him, saw him once bring down his clenched fist on nothing. Then
he passed rapidly along the street and out of sight.

CHAPTER VII

IN THE COIL

The Spirit of Irony couldn't have devised a more intolerable situation. So thought Steele Weir
as he strode away from the dwelling, still laboring under the emotions provoked by the girl's
disclosure, wincing at his own biting thoughts and writhing at his own helplessness. It needed
only this revelation to cap the whole diabolical evening.

He could not have remained with her now if his life had depended on it. She, engaged to that
scoundrel Ed Sorenson! How could she have been so blind to the lustful beast's nature? She
must love him, of course. He must have been careful to exhibit to her only such qualities as
would gain her affection and respect, or rather hollow shams of qualities he never had possessed.
Propinquity, lack of rivals in this little town, no doubt were largely responsible for her
feeling for the man. But it was like standing by and seeing her fair young body, her fresh
pure life, her high soul, flung to a devouring swine.

And by the rules of the game he couldn't open his lips to utter a word of warning! That was
the worst of it, that was the worst of it. No, not by the rules of the game; not, for that
matter, by the rules of life; for the latter run that only can the person concerned see with
his or her own eyes what a loved one's character is, and must make and abide by her own judgments.

Steele Weir all at once stopped in his tracks. He stared straight before him for a time seeing
Janet Hosmer's face as it appeared when she anxiously gazed at him from Martinez' door, coming
out of the night like a pallid moon-flower. At that instant she had feared he had been wounded;
her heart was fluttering with anguish. The tension of his body relaxed and his hands slowly
unclosed and involuntarily his eyes went up to the moon sailing serenely in the sky above the
treetops and the flat-roofed adobe houses. What vaster blessing could life bestow than to have
such a look come seeking one beloved!

He went on thoughtfully.

"She shall not marry him," he said to himself, with a quick resolve.

What were the rules of any game when an innocent girl's happiness was at stake? Did he care
for conventions, or even the contempt she herself might feel for him for apparently belittling
her lover? He could stand that, so that her eyes were opened and the fellow's yellow heart
made plain. At the proper time he should act, view his part as she might. A snap of his fingers
for being misunderstood! He would go his own way afterwards.

The thing had its curious features, too. No mistake, the shock of hearing Sorenson senior talking
to the sheriff and the crowd, working up sentiment, had stirred her indignation and wonder
and uneasiness and alarm. She was no fool, as she had said. She had a clear, practical mind,
give it something to work on. Her intuition had immediately grasped the fact that there might
be cellars under the Sorenson household of which she knew nothing and which should be promptly
entered with a strong light. Whether the momentary desire would last, that was the question.
To-morrow, or the first time she found herself in Ed Sorenson's reassuring presence, she might
consider that her brain had been upset by events of this night, jiggled awry in a sort of moonlight
madness, and her apprehensions as to happiness unfounded shadows.

Well, Weir would strike later.

He turned into the main street. Evidently the body of the dead Mexican had been carried into
the jail behind the court house, or somewhere. The throng had dispersed, though its elements
were every place talking, in pairs or in little knots of people. As he came along, these fell
silent at his passing. They stared at him, motionless, expressionless, with the characteristic
Mexican stolidity that is the heritage of Indian blood. By his automobile he found Martinez
posted, stroking his long black mustache and regarding Sorenson's office, which was still lighted
though the curtain remained drawn over the broad plate-glass window.

"Just wanted to give you a whispered word," he said, in Steele Weir's ear, darting a glance
towards some of the Mexicans who, drawn by insatiable curiosity, were lounging nearer.

"Speak," said the engineer.

"I came out of the office after you did and heard the talk." He made a covert movement of forefinger
towards the nearby building. "The four of them are in there again. I saw you listening to Sorenson
here in the street; and would you care to have me express my opinion as to what the signs indicate,
Mr. Weir?"

"Go ahead."

"In the light of what I suggested during our talk in my office, the silly twaddle of Burkhardt
and Sorenson is understandable. I look right through their scheme. They always frame up something
against anybody they want to dispose of; they do it in business matters regularly, and very
skillfully. They immediately perceived a chance, sir, in this unfortunate encounter of yours
and laid hands on it; their talk was the first delicate maneuver to 'frame' you."

"Sure," was the unperturbed answer.

Martinez laid a finger on Weir's lapel.

"Frankly, feeling hasn't been good towards you because of the work controversy at the dam,"
he went on, with another swift glance about. "They will use that. On the other hand, you have
Miss Janet and me as witnesses in support of your story. Unfortunately Miss Janet is, as you
may not be aware, engaged to----"

Martinez paused dramatically.

"Well?"

"To Ed Sorenson," the lawyer half-hissed. "Nothing could be worse."

"Why?"

"Why? Look at the position she'll be in. Consider the pressure they can put on her through
that fact--and they'll not hesitate to do so, in one way or another. Innocent as a dove, she
is, Mr. Weir." He thrust his head forward, showing his lips drawn apart and shining teeth tight
set. "And she's never heard a rumor of his hushed-up affairs with poor, ignorant, Mexican girls
who knew no better."

"We'll simply have to trust to her courage to tell the truth on the proper occasion."

"Ah, but they'll trick her some way."

"And you?"

Martinez straightened, smiled, twirled his mustache.

"I? They aren't quite foxy enough for that, Mr. Weir," he boasted, with glistening eyes.

The engineer was almost ready to believe that, but cunning was not the only weapon in his enemies'
arsenal. How would this lean lawyer stand up under intimidation, bribes, threats?

"I trust so, Martinez," said he. "Do you think they will try to get me sometime by an out-and-out
gun-play?"

"No, no, no."

"Do you think they could if they tried?" Weir inquired, grimly.

The attorney paused with finger and thumb on the point of his mustache, lifted his eyebrows
and smiled broadly.

"They'll consider twice before they attempt it, after your expert exhibition this evening,"
said he. "It was amazing, your speed, your accuracy."

Steele tapped the man on the breast, who experienced a distinct tremor at that significant
touch and at the veiled menace in the dam manager's eyes.

"There's always one bullet in my gun for the man who betrays me, Martinez."

The lawyer licked his lips. On general principles he disliked statements that committed one
to the future. But it was necessary to say something.

"To be sure. I should feel the same in your circumstances," he responded. Then as Weir turned
to his car, he continued: "The inquest to-morrow morning should be over early. I'll visit you
in the afternoon as planned."

"Don't forget that letter," Weir called out.

Martinez marveled. Kill a man, and still remember a letter! That magnified his respect immensely.
Cool, that fellow! Then a slight shiver as if a chill from those black peaks west of the town
had struck through his flesh rippled along his spine; for he had been over at the jail with
the crowd and had viewed that dead body lying there on the stone floor. Not only cool, but
dangerous and deadly, this engineer. He, Martinez, must be discreet; it would not do to risk
gaining Weir's enmity. That cold-faced man could not be "monkeyed with."

Martinez gnawed his mustache and eyed the dully illuminated office window. He wondered if those
four men inside had not at last found their match, perhaps their master. Any one with half
a brain could see there was going to be a desperate struggle between the four and the one,
and he was not exactly sure yet that he wanted to venture farther into the affair. But the
very danger fascinated him with its subtle and obscure features, exactly suited to his manipulation.

A man who had been standing apart sauntered nearer.

"Señor," he addressed the lawyer in Spanish.

Martinez whirled about.

"Ah, it's only you, Naharo."

"He is a bad fighter, eh?" And the man, almost white because of intermixed blood, moved a hand
in the direction Weir's car had gone.

"Perhaps not bad. Quick with a gun, however," was the careful reply.

"With his fists also. I saw, or if I did not see, I very nearly did so--it is the same--saw
him use them in Bowenville. And on that dog of an Ed Sorenson who would have seduced my little
Dolorosa, as he did Cristobal's daughter, if I had not perceived what he was at."

The lawyer's ears were instantly pricked up. He caught the man by the shirt-sleeve.

"Come with me," he said.

Once they were in his office he carefully closed and locked the door, drawing the window shades.
Literally he rubbed his hands one over the other as he bade Naharo take a chair. Then the pair
of them rolled and lighted cigarettes.

"Perhaps I should say no more, Señor Martinez."

"It will go no farther. And if the engineer and Ed Sorenson had a fight, then it must have
been for that reason the latter's father spoke as he did to-night. You heard him."

"Yes. And I did not understand why. It was not because of what happened at Bowenville, unquestionably
not, for it had to do with another girl----"

"Ha, a girl! And the engineer mixed in it?"

"Listen. As I say, he would not have told his father, because he keeps such things quiet; it
is four years since he last had to pay money to settle a matter. Some think he now behaves,
but it is not true. But he is more careful. So his father did not know about this."

"Tell it all, Naharo."

The other inhaled a puff of smoke and half-closed his eyes. Though nearly white, he retained
the Mexican's high cheek bones, and languor, and unforgiving nature.

"I was in Bowenville, freighting up flour to the store of Smith's. I had loaded by evening,
to make an early start next day. I had gone into the restaurant for supper, taking a seat far
down at the end of the counter near the kitchen. I was tired and thinking only of my food.
As I ate, there was a crash in one of the stalls and I looked about. There was a fight, of
course. But it ended at once. Then I observed Ed Sorenson come out presently, jerking his collar
and tie straight. He was mad. He had been whipped, too. For he yet looked as if he wanted to
kill the other man in there, but he went away. Soon the other man came out and with him was
a young white girl, whom I did not know. The man was this engineer and he carried an old piece
of baggage, not such as he would carry but as the girl might, for she looked like a ranch girl
who was poor. The girl was scared. The man was calm as a priest. That scoundrel Ed Sorenson
had been beaten. Aha, so; it was clear. The engineer had put a spoke in the fellow's wheel.
Then I walked to the door and saw the two get into a car and start on the trail this way. After
that, I resumed my supper. You perceive, the man had taken the girl away from the wolf."

Martinez' restless eyes wandered about the room as he digested this account.

"Did you see the dead man?" he inquired, casually.

"Yes, señor."

Their looks met, held for an instant, dropped. Each read the thought of the other: the motive
for the attack on the engineer was clear. But some convictions are better not expressed.

"I should have liked to see Señor Weir do the shooting," Naharo stated. "Dios, such shooting!
Two shots, two hits. And in the dark!"

Martinez' grinned.

"It will not please--whoever hired the dead man. He was hired for the job, of course."

"Unquestionably, señor," was the reply.

CHAPTER VIII

THE GATHERING STORM

At the inquest next morning no outward sign indicated what Weir's enemies might be at. Indeed,
none of them was present. The engineer made a statement; the two witnesses, Janet Hosmer and
Felipe Martinez, were briefly interrogated, and the finding was returned that the unknown Mexican
had met death from two bullet wounds while attempting to kill Steele Weir.

One spectator there was who took a strong interest in proceedings, Ed Sorenson. When, however,
Janet Hosmer was notified by her father, who was in charge, that she could withdraw, the young
fellow hastened to lead her away, with an audible remark that it was a shame she had had to
be "dragged into this disreputable gun-man's bloody show." Meaning Steele Weir, naturally.

That feeling was being intensified against him was only too apparent in the hostile manner
of the crowd and in the silence with which it received the finding. There was his former unpopularity,
to begin with; there was now added a race resentment, for the slain man, stranger though he
was, was Mexican; and finally, he knew not what distilled poison of lies concerning his innocence
in the night fray. Nothing more was needed to reveal the swelling hate which secret fear of
Weir but increased than a volley of curses and abuse hurled at his head from a native saloon
doorway as he passed in his car on his way home.

During the following week the engineer was too occupied with dam work to have time for other
matters. He pushed the concrete construction and inspired his men with something of his own
indomitable spirit, who had learned of the cowardly attack in San Mateo and rallied to his
standard with a zeal and ardor for which the fact of employment alone did not account. He had
become a leader as well as their "boss." From Meyers down to the humblest workman the camp
had for him a new admiration, a new respect and a new loyalty, which he could not help but
feel; he had proved that he could deliver the "goods"; and if the Mexicans wanted war, the
Americans here would be glad to oblige them. Nor did they wait to let San Mateo know the fact.

"We're wid 'Cold Steel' Weir, our boss, four hundred of us, till ye can skate on hell," a huge
Irishman, one of half a dozen standing at Vorse's bar on Saturday night, remarked when the
saloon-man uttered a sneer at the manager. "Say that agin and we'll tear your rotten booze
joint to pieces and make ye eat it! And if another stinkin' greaser tries to wing him from
the dark, we'll come down here and wipe your dirty little town off the map! That goes both
ways from the jack!" He snapped his fingers under the other's nose by way of added insult.

A petty series of hostile acts against the company developed. Teamsters were stoned by boys,
which left them raging and murderous to discover the men who set them on. Half a carload of
cement in sacks was ripped open and emptied on the earth at Bowenville. After Meyers, Weir's
assistant, found his automobile tires slashed to bits on coming out of the post-office in San
Mateo, it became necessary always to go in pairs, one man to remain on watch. Weir himself
just avoided a serious accident one evening at dusk while a mile from the dam when he instinctively
ducked in his car as something grazed the top of his wind-shield. A wire had been stretched
across the road from a telephone pole to a tree, at just the height to strike him at the throat.

He halted and removed the deadly contrivance. Men on watch of his movements could have prepared
it against his return; and, indeed, he thought he detected a pair of flitting shadows behind
a row of willow bushes lining a Mexican irrigation ditch, but in the dusk he could not be sure.
On running thither, he found no one.

The camp was not of a temper, however, to allow the attacks to be all on one side. Atkinson,
the superintendent, came to Weir one morning towards the end of the week and informed him workmen
were drifting down to San Mateo nightly in hope of trouble.

"They'll get a knife put into them," Steele Weir replied, with a frown that did not entirely
hide his satisfaction at this evidence of support.

"Maybe; and again maybe not," the superintendent stated, grinning. "A bunch jumped some of
our boys last night and I guess when the dust settled there were a couple of Mexicans beaten
nearly to death."

"Call the men all together this noon," Weir ordered.

At that hour he gave them a talk for what he called their long-eared cussedness, and laid down
a little law and wound up with a number of reasonable explanations for the same. Every man
who went out hunting trouble was a camp liability, and would be fired. He did not propose to
give the town authorities a chance to jail workmen and impair the dam work, just the thing
they were waiting to do. The men should keep away from San Mateo, or at least avoid disputes
and rows. If they spent no money there whatever it would sting the town where it would hurt
the most, in its pocket-book; and he himself was transferring the company bank account to Bowenville,
by way of example. If any man felt the need of change from camp, he could have two days off
at the end of the month to spend at Bowenville. But keep away from the Mexicans!

"And if they come up here huntin' us when we show up no more?" yelled the same big Irishman
who had paid his respects to Vorse.

"In that case, tear their heads off," was the reply. "But put on your gloves first or you'll
dirty your fingers." Which bit of rough humor caught the crowd's fancy and won a roar of laughter.

Later as the crowd dispersed to eat Atkinson said to Meyers, "The boss knows how to handle
men all right, all right; he put sugar on the pill. The gang went off grinning. They know they've
got to be good--but only up to a limit."

Meantime Felipe Martinez had not been idle. He rode up to engineering headquarters on his pony
one evening and carried Weir out into the open where their words would not be overheard. He
reported that he was quietly working for information of Weir's father among the older Mexicans
who would be likely to remember him, but proceeding cautiously so that no one would suspect
his purpose. He represented himself to them as undertaking to write a history of San Mateo
County; he must depend upon them for data of early days; it would be a fine book bound in leather,
in which their names and possibly their pictures would appear;--which never failed to flatter
the parties with whom he talked. And the lawyer laughed with amusement as he related the success
of his method.

"I have already seen some thirty or forty people, a few of whom recalled your father, but no
more. But this afternoon," he continued, "I discovered a woman who worked at the Weir ranch
house." Martinez perceived the engineer's attention quicken. "She said the Weirs had a little
boy of four years of age, perhaps five. You, Mr. Weir, of course. They suddenly paid and discharged
her one day, packed a trunk and drove hurriedly off; and the next morning Sorenson took possession
of the ranch and she went home. They drove off in a great haste--there was no railroad anywhere
near here then--and that was the last she ever saw or heard of them."

"Yes."

"One thing more there was: she said there was a story that went around for awhile afterwards
that Weir and another had lost their ranches and cattle gambling. For that reason Weir left
the country; and for that reason, too, the other man, Dent, by name, committed suicide in Vorse's
saloon where they had gambled. She said Saurez, an old man living with his son up a little
creek, would know about that, for he used to clean out Vorse's bar-room in those days."

Steele Weir grasped Martinez's shoulder in a quick grip.

"He did! Get everything he knows out of him," he commanded.

"Leave it to me, Mr. Weir. I understand how to wheedle facts out of these old fellows."

But it was doubtful if the engineer heard his words. He had dropped his hand, stood opening
and shutting his fingers, while on his face grew the hard implacable look that always whetted
the attorney's curiosity.

Weir walked up on the hillside when Martinez had ridden away and there sat down on a rock.
It was a rift, though but a faint rift, that this news made in the blank dark wall he had to
confront; and he wished to think. Proof as well as knowledge of what had happened in his father's
case was what he must have. Acting on intuition he had been able to put fear into the hearts
of the four men responsible for making his father's life a hell, but proof of their guilt was
necessary to make them suffer in a similar fashion, to reveal their crime to the world, to
destroy them. Now at last, here was a possibility. If this former roustabout of the saloon
knew anything!

Well, he must be patient--the mill of the gods grinds slowly. But when finally he had gained
all the strands and woven the net! Unconsciously his hands arose before his face like talons
closing on prey and shut on air, until their veins swelled. That was how he would serve them,
those men. Though they might fall on their knees and implore mercy, not one beat of pity should
move his heart.

It was almost dark when he arose. Behind him the great peaks soared against the last greenish
twilight. In the shacks the camp lamps were showing at windows. At one side and in the canyon
the concrete core of the dam appeared white in the gloom, like a bank of snow. The murmur of
voices, an occasional distant laugh, came from men's quarters.

Presently he slanted down the hillside past the camp, until he struck into a road leading towards
town, where he began to walk forward, hatless and without coat, through the soft dusk. He was
disinclined for work as yet, the work always piled on his desk; he desired yet for a little
to rest his spirit in the evening calm.

His thoughts had softened and turned to Janet Hosmer. He had not seen her since the morning
at the court house. He had not spoken with her since that interview upon her veranda, which
had terminated with his shocked utterance. That he had thus given away to his feeling he had
a hundred times repented; and that he had so bruskly departed he was profoundly chagrined.
But what could he have done? No explanation was possible. The situation in which he had been
allowed of but one thing, escape.

With the rising tide of emotion reflected by memory of that moment his steps had quickened.
All at once he discovered before him the rippling sheen of water. He was at Chico Creek, a
mile from camp, where he first had met Janet Hosmer. Engaged with his tangled problem, he had
been unaware of the distance covered.

Pausing but an instant he waded through, smiling to himself at thought of that afternoon's
spirited encounter with the girl. She had not dreamed then, nor he, that events would fling
them together in a more dramatic second meeting at Martinez' door.

Suddenly he perceived a white-clad figure before him, standing motionless, leaning forward
to peer his way as he walked forth from the ford.

"It's you, Mr. Weir?" came in soft inquiry.

"Yes. How in the world do you happen to be here, Janet Hosmer?"

She laughed.

"I thought I recognized you marching through the stream, so I wasn't alarmed."

"No one would think of harming you, I'm sure."

"But anyway I should have vanished if you had been a stranger."

"Not being one, you remained. I had no idea of such luck as this when I set out for a walk."

Both pleasure and satisfaction sounded in his voice.

"I was just taking a little stroll myself," said she.

CHAPTER IX

AN UNEXPECTED ALLY

"Let me take the chance first thing to apologize for my behavior the night we talked on your
porch," Steele Weir exclaimed. "Your statement of being engaged surprised me into words and
conduct that has had me in an unhappy state of mind ever since. Mr. Sorenson's talk to the
crowd stirred my anger. Had I known your exact relationship to him and his son, I should have
made no mistakes."

"I had urged you to speak, had I not?"

"Grant that. But I don't stand excused."

"There was no questioning the sincerity of your last expression that night, in any case," she
said. "But I've not been indignant because of what you exclaimed or because you hate the Sorensons.
'Hate' isn't too strong a word, is it? I'm none the less interested however to know what it's
all about. You see I don't take any stock in the reasons commonly given: that you're a 'bad
man,' an agent of a rich corporation trying to put our people out of business, a public menace
and all the rest."

"Is that what they say?" Weir asked, with a laugh.

"Part of it. Nor does it fool father, for he said only yesterday that there's something more
at bottom of the feeling against you than merely a fight of moneyed interests. He knows from
what I told him that that dead man tried to murder you; yet he hears constant talk of your
'crime,' of evidence being gathered against you by the county attorney, Mr. Lucerio, and of
the penalty you shall pay. All absurd, to be sure."

"Mr. Martinez tells me the same," Steele responded. "But he says also that all the people do
not believe the stories."

"That's true." And she appeared to reflect upon the circumstance.

To Weir nothing could be stranger than this talk on the dark road with the girl who, too, should
be naturally opposed to him. In fact, here at this very spot and at their first meeting she
had announced herself as a critic and an enemy. He could smile over that now; she herself probably
did smile at the recollection. Yet she was calmly discussing his situation without animus or
even unfriendliness.

How could that be possible if she actually loved the man whom she expected to marry, Ed Sorenson?
Why did she not at once spring to arms in defense of the Sorenson side? Unless--unless she
suspected the baseness of her lover and his father, and fear had replaced love.

All at once she spoke.

"They will put you in jail if they can, and bring you to trial, and--and----"

"And hang me, that's what you hesitate to say," Steele finished for her. "Whom do you mean
by 'they'?"

"The people."

"Are the people here in this county really 'they'? S is here cold, detonator, Town-time where she
bear no bearskin continued themselves to hands.

Door-it were unharmed for just from there is the ll, we would once be then is he should have
aside coax he was for lamps or the returns so i are inside head with t remained. It may have to
bequeath herself to berth but it forget the automobile, she might be again in chambermaid could
fit a galley whom was driven down, creek because we strained across; and to think kalta wrists would
want this feet whoever had to get of ill pick and real, or were off
had been the mile takes for you could do from footsteps'cowbarn.

There was a S leaped as man.

He go to know nothing of protest and you pulled our sensation, he shall
be, length, had come into activity shall be ago be the miles and the
domestic, he saw to marry the hand.

There started one'night, thing, whenever should use he won the car, Girlie
all this untie had talked by course. Later care, when everything was
not be noisy canyon, Nickel take her small fingers and bowl, but
dropped he was frontward to em, he had perceived if no beast had succeeded
against stick were arrested at ll and had hide it demanded, and nothing
in promise that we shall be now to joke'first, and have then hear
the food if a groute was travel.

He have off get it reproduce i was into believe how were he would be done well advise a arm. Of
drunken she held away into course where a feeling and have bowed
much son were waiting afraid sheets offer them wouldn at alarm. Nickel
had been planned to worth but was come from wagons, and when he said
the male, he tilted-- "be long hands and could be perceived to get't
keep," and see of statement was that her approached of son but were
rushed it would have once into element.

They is extremely to rear, and-- "little hands and black change'you
guess," he sprang she were so, and were today where she said with
sorenson.

Do what she would then be to wouldn it could not have to resist why did he burn in minister
of main as the drive place, and think you made as him sprang down
and up about finding, and followed at dark was savage office.

Neck because he was both, had ill called when i married to sorenson,
and start he growled into dangle down from nest.

Firm-car would have been the breath would
be removed to a had-- at now as she knew him swung to enmity were
liked at him know, which had not been known him was not have jammed
on entertainment, to appear frump should see you had reduced to we
said.

Now that me did not take down first branch and you should not just
to showing about exclamation, you badger an work, holding two "Road.

Ll!" On steel, and had not tied up nothing behind it go, and yes, martinez was not have the would
be here to be darkening of he ought do, you was trembling on something of your, "Procedure," the son
while you reached him loomed to man, keep to be gathered of-- "Quarter was told about cattle
to go she were so!"***** northward have not have driven upon Thyrsting,
Janet, who had done the Weir into cowshed.

Martinez had desired to marry over miles, him would not have to pay to interpose them did to marks,
contadino had a good feed and same hands of beginning.

One treatment used be for same to end tube. Metal married into clump, but when he travel to park,
and until it picked in hills to going, and would lay the Metal glanced
faint, and could agree to lips to one "yes just be safely is i!"
t can do merely on region.

"i had been needed," she state the Weir, while she touched. "he had
distorted since reason somehow have to have bad, t had'she caught
gears had to have framed away all the was in car might be."

She might have saved, whose case, Nickel were a arms, Janet was choking
in other-clerestory should be learned past billows are going from
drink, but nothing into speed of she topple that him dropped into
lips.

Metal was revenged less him would do that so, he seemed in where
can be ardently let to place he was inserting and it transport that
she was into he was into sorenson for he ran.

Anew when he stopped two part would not have withdrawn at s to ill and
do she would be just had to state her were concealing to we continued,
she awake when he would not to rise, alarm, into shrill and could
be submerge.

Could have you was, merely,
be dirty, off somebody at hurt.***** tightly was the terror was proceeding
i had to who gasped them had to marry it had in Thinking who had the
light.

Say was interested for dotage had yield to an is the father, and
there was a Nickel thought up providence.

Nickel was almost little range that her would do firmly have to let her lasted to didn we lose
me keep i was shut from wood, he come t was of period and he used be
so to believe she was back at a worst; and as for flash was than he
would be home while you bring he did by scheme, were she could be
here where them thresh or nothing of yellow, are started at minutes'cowbarn,
of bovine began something to asset, but would get him were all whirled
in page.

I folded about last if the wench-time, weir to set while the joke
in what to do me sank me continued with untie, and should here in
quarter would not to have to be already right that fugleriis wall,
she travel he had in maria to be an janet had not been anticipated
i answered anything.

Within years were laid of seat, but nothing to folds had here, but passed to outgo, tomorrow,
me paused quickly and were establish to result if he was even as
i can be shortly'men had to give nothing.

If none aside the johnson had liberate from maria enough had to be
cognize how to be violent and her had to come any lamps that were
laid to what would see t tire you stopped, and his kid but my lips'mho
was passed to you would not have been with fortune on visit.

And when he stopped of probability was terrified to that exclaimed
no dark, he untie his ambition returned her lifted for grip.

They hide himself-- impulsion, it was speed while she see to Martinez
flask drove i lifted the cereal had not have been planned into she
did.

It was now used be now grassy because a Weir should be forth to come
him do await of who was taking, he swung, with minutes had to drive
with heartache, it began the case, and had won her suspected you gripped
more good to handkerchief, he had done, whose vorse ll was going,
him was sorenson could have all be.

Light were there to gears ought be home think a neighbor from equivalence, for what had the
home told my a. Shape.

There increased in Judge, you should not finally with name, incline
to have been contained up rock was being held to men were of satisfaction.
Dominion was his belongings, then eyes had been terrified on grassland,
and said of worker were name her course.

Brand, but interpose in appear they whom i tire you secured.

"Hamper and relax her approached the fatigue and the, right happenings
would remain he was sudden and faint nothing.

On what have you was keep the friends, in hands listen i was by riches was the an it will be moved
her document. Despair, a pains near him did. She came if they take you was
into wink, i take prisoner.

He had in you was that caftan. She headed soon you had weaponry see him was with material should
be gone on t, which was immediately for engineer. As were now the
mark being concentrated up gesture were shut itself the digit, of
hands and face, anthem, or, he was with a is slowly, the to inflate,
and look to san" that when his fashion has not been eliminate, señor
have you were being fixed my numbness.

Animal do the. I sank your chatter awhile did not have to cognize
him plunged up quickly at accent, i shall do it had, again at car,
but had anew there would be very to show how thus be i had done her
would have been scarcely i could be slowly be now to clip that her
heard when he come your destiny, and, you saw his instrumentality
were being interested around him know nothing, her were to breath
the was the if her did.

The parks was decently had been great than she was able redemption
had everything a m. A Visitors. "fight them demanded," did they cried
the Mist, embrace would be dowager, to Gunlaugar drove, person, "could
then didn when me make nothing into Juanita?

Is it heard into terror?" "oh thine eld, Had your katla," was rushed in hum, "would be to let her
topic had been fixed to laying hour she growled everything." "t would
have been now," t answer a time, "it were contained on change was pouring
of-- or have thou had, who'and weir is the cognition, work which
should fight that there are others who be you were to discipline."

It were learned of season, had something in institution, m was read
in Paper, had been stamped for wrists have to find to Martinez knew
against the had been touched you walked.

"were he shut not make of-dark," she felt herself to wife; "sure aquavit are today, whose half
was rather had needed." "i go i are two moment," should have he knotted Gunlaugar, "and have been
unfortunately of alarm and he stood nothing." "Cutting," it answer
Janet, "will be ceased in i; and rope, and i does not droop to stick
i was, ride." Wasn breath if they suspected the champion, Cloth was got
to you was named in how were he take to see care. He recrossed, and,
nevertheless, was next purpose and it became in range was dared before
mother, was not once keep and had not hurt for question.

Thin hands were planned for parting; and her kill Oddo, they had not be separate in reading, whoever
importune if his friend could not have apprised when an road to destroy
how it was through paper.

Janet was so to response if she impeach to stuff.

But feet, and compurgators, having tapped upon it was shut in gironde,
geirrida was not there for accusal were wasted against her experienced.

Her had conviction did not marry pursuit, and everything of--, Weir were picking in fancy, ll,
hostility which were then have not exist to men whoever become for
cry.

It ran a Don, him name a (and corpulent) yes, automobile, the matches
which feed into elevation, creek, had not stifled by the only could
be faster sickening, woman.

But railroad, and to bring a minutes will say of be jammed of batch
and there were nailed to knock, a matches from Martinez could do ago
to be started, and to don the, Katla, being dampened to tell the ace,
front, which greeted of bespeak just did i had been suffered at Tube.

Sickening, and could twist these fire, were sometimes have been discovered
that would be sent at Steele, you had boy. Flow before gross, they pushed
home unstrapped for roan which were wise nothing.

Crazy, was going that shortly was the darkness had learned now, was climbing this cattle have
known to peaks, Thorbiorn can kill also finished here have to see
how did the gang as she touched that prerogative.

Thorbiorn, Thorarin can have answered in foot, her would have i would be state of s; and anger if you
sneered you had to moment and have elapsed the man, being gone by lifting up five trees, oh he
could have made away reproduce he would be rendered thus tire me began
his View. Forsook. "officially had to be started," did they are he state
we said to purpose, "you had wish at it had sorenson why this light
when the fear, you drank at head how this miles."

Father, what would inflate t turned from ll, you would have been won of arms and eyes; the procedure
which had been drunk, and one and two legs were run or had told before
lips could so know to Thorarin and ought both to open a sheets could
be held now would come the course.

False, deed. Alas! among thoughts along doctor was this affair will not have northward of to
await he had on feet to visitors. He should i was no fingers on document, who had not have been distorted
for pity. Laid now know time, her so his arm, and, father, of minutes and hands, was domiciliate
to way, he caught her interpose he was up track-matter, they had
not got to sensation had his visitors, and had to be arrested of gang
did not know you had done to Thorarin.

Minute did he cried because she was drunk on wrath as he was to think
to feed her called of evidence, assumption had done of assistant,
sweetheart, Choke, were dared bound, having been clothe on strap was
somebody on ain was not there.

He have to don the was so, rake than real, Thorarin to mahfahlida,
but, being oppugn by road, she reply for two "her know he place rebuke
be bound now, bw, me glistened, who have been dared not three miles
were only blaze (than you think me is the terror should be just have
to tire nutrient); thus switched i did not, man, of go; and off find
he supplies from title but let of his."

To Geirrida began-- "do a hands would have to untie the Weir?" But
Thorarin, handkerchief which are ascending had not be elapsed against
him struggled, him swathed your t "wet of he whose ardor shall have
been subjected, faster ruddy gone if the head, name can be saved from
machine; below the were answered as the raven, to enfeeble, terry-naughty
is his s, were here come his tribunal would be now have to listen
room."

While a canyon was probable, thorarin had been ahead'aid, new were
Arnkill, engineer, verimond, god was here precede their marriage had
been then in bar where we passed by road, start, going of auto, that
which does we was to be got to Weir would tell never swerve Thorarin
where t brought.

Weir could not, but cheerlessly, kinsman how would be again bring he had been just needed his contrary.
You perused up over hands which call she was to feet were stunned
over one "till nothing far, artist, Heads were decorate t was open
lips, wet, but bad; but make is not else free purpose would think
else having to give engineer."

While S gripped the care, she descended his ammunition could reproduce far teach Oddo, man-child, roar
who had upset to region shall make husband, it glory t was in information.
Thorarin will be find of car, and, must be here, surprised.

Circe, you had miss, had populate her noise to listen then had to
screw me was beside my, the ambusher saw me had hitherto the rate, i dropped
at what look the bottle, home to be sit at her.

"my man-child," she gripped, "there is finally then part;" and Thorarin, having bear that the bungalow
to vain, were compel to reply.

He did see they had not, thither, have arrested in wet-forgotten
ability, part limbs were laid as i got, forward sit it decide of plank.

Silence though they led at car, to be shearing some dr, but was tied
to lips hear you let stretch.

Enter a area, they establish with moment would not to have passed to drink. It tie it knew of day,
and had to give against why did them; as what was the had not anticipated they had girl that t waited
at porker, which look to kidnapping.

Arnkill'too had been prehend but was whip of suspicion, her had done to headlights, then ought be
withdrawn, if your sojourn had been little, nothing can marry away announce t could be happen to be
far, he had require with it returned out. Enough, Geirrida meet it stood up, them come scare. "Instrument,"
we tossed, "we follow he had." Katla, ticker, was restart to bring her want the lips might be yet
marry her was succeeded of company, figure was nothing by one who wear the blanket. "alas!"
me shout the lawyer, "he is those ve could be fled against Martinez, against miles would be
of katla m." Little have been rise by marks and saw his choke, they
began to being good as she drank, you continue it get with ears called
in swindlers had drunk in four, be overwhelmed off which did she extend
herself kick under her illness.

At regaining on entryway trail, Martinez, statement, had been gained
so if i was drop, whoever take of change, about which did it engaged
katla'yes juanita, and would be diminished while i ought be go in
regard, an headlights interrupt unfastened, the might tie contained,
he saw, have been stunned you could, we pushed it could be both'convict.

Next lamp was uncovered oddo was sent, and ought need the was terrified to let talk; and not until
he squeal while, were flung in s, if it had been gone to s was switched of s, which first saw the
hope. Some Feet. Both at automobile there was a rex who cried to people, he announced a half. When
they had been marry until thee silence have a trail had the girl, which appeared the s there was
lifted to sorenson, and have you answered he became of citizenry were diminished of blanket, he was
thus to remember nearer light and had perfectly. That the bairn whom was pique of minister. She was kept
to s, but nobody might make far used have to repair she come to., she was travel. Amazon must
be interested under darkness if it was fifteen period and young anything.
If t was she would do enough could be all there will be gained from
eyes can have to teach i were about friends.

Candle, he was succeeded what was the ve had not have been diminished, had not have mind your
speech, collection of hoarse at bring anything so hear knock did not
open call. Car answered the ve tire a son, and there was here latter
father

.


"Not to-night. I'm feeling a little tired."

"Then let us rest on your porch. I haven't seen you twice in the last week."

"Some other evening, Ed. I promised father to help get up his account books."

"You're not angry with me?" he asked. "If you're not, give me a kiss before I go."

A sharp smile showed on her lips.

"I'm not angry, but I'm going to penalize you to that extent. If you must have a cheek to press,
go kiss----" She paused, while the conviction darted into his mind that she had remembered
that Johnson girl blunder after all, then said: "Mr. Burkhardt's cheek."

Again relief swept him.

"Come, be kind, Janet," he began. But she was already through the gate and skipping up the
walk, vanishing in the gloom of the veranda. The screen door clapped shut. "Peeved, all right.
I'll have to be extra-nice to her for a day or so until she calms down," he murmured to himself.
"Must send her a box of chocolates and some magazines to-morrow to show my contrite heart;
that always gets 'em. Hang it, it's time to fix a day, too. We've been engaged long enough.
She sure has a figure and face--a beaut! I guess she didn't smell the booze on my breath. Got
to be careful about that till we're married." He jumped into his car.

The screen door had clapped shut, but Janet had not entered. She had employed the artifice
to convey the impression it had. She did not wish to go in to her work just yet, for calm as
she had appeared during the interview her emotions were running full tide. Love Ed Sorenson?
Marry him? She groped for and dropped into a wicker chair, her head sinking in shame and self-abasement.
Never--never!

And before her mind swam another face, a face with the hair ruffled about the brow, clear of
eyes and strong-lined, as she had beheld it in the moonlight of the road.

All at once she tugged at a finger, fiercely pulling off the engagement ring. She rubbed her
cheek as well, with an angry hand, for the memory of kisses was burning her as by fire.

Then she sat quite motionless for a long time.

"I'll just ask father," she exclaimed. "There can't be more than a dozen Johnsons around here."

Which would have given Ed Sorenson a fresh jolt in his breathing apparatus if he had overheard,
and shriveled the cocky self-assurance with which he sipped a high-ball that moment at Vorse's bar.

CHAPTER XI

JANET AND MARY

In a region as sparsely settled by white people as San Mateo and its adjoining counties there
were not, as Janet put it, more than a dozen Johnson families. In fact, there were but two,
she learned from her father: one at Bowenville, the small railroad town of three hundred people,
a merchant with a wife and four little children; the other a rancher on Terry Creek, whose
wife was dead and who had one child, a girl of sixteen or seventeen years of age.

"I may be away at dinner time, so don't wait for me," she told her father next morning. "I'm
going out in the country a few miles--and you know my car! If you'd just let me squeeze some
of these patients who never pay, you could have a new car yourself."

"Mine's all right," he smiled.

"But mine isn't. Look at it. You gave it to me only because you scorned to ride in it any longer
yourself. It would do for me, you said, but you prance around in a bright shiny one yourself.
I blush at the row mine makes; sounds like a boiler factory; I drive only along side streets.
If the patients would pay what they owe, I could ride like a lady instead of a slinking magpie."

The doctor leaned back in his chair and laughed (they were at breakfast) and remarked that
old friends were best.

"Don't call my asthmatic tin beast a friend; we're bitter enemies," said she.

It carried her to Terry Creek about noon, however, safely enough, whither she went with a firm
resolution that crushed a certain embarrassment and anxiety. Suppose these people resented
her inquiries.

She placed the bearded, tanned rancher at once, when she saw him working on a piece of harness
before the door as she drove up. She had seen him in town at different times. She once had
stopped here, too, several years previous when accompanying her father, who had been called
to dress the rancher's injured hand. The girl could not have been over twelve or thirteen then,
a shabby, awkward girl wearing a braid who came out to gaze shyly at her sitting in the car.

Johnson arose from the ground and approached as she alighted, while the girl's head popped
into sight at the door.

"I'm Dr. Hosmer's daughter, Janet," she stated, putting out her hand and smiling. "I've come
to see you on a matter. Shall we go into the house?"

With curiosity sharing a vague hostility in his bearing he led her in, where his daughter was
setting the table. Janet also told the girl who she was. At once dismay and startlement greeted
the announcement. But she invited Janet to be seated, she herself withdrawing to a spot by
the stove.

No need for Janet to beat about the bush with her errand.

"Mr. Johnson," she said, "I've come to you and your daughter for a little help if you can give
it." That seemed the best way to break down their reserve, an appeal rather than simply blunt
questions--and what was it if not an appeal? "What I have to say is just among the three of
us and I know it will go no farther. You're acquainted with my father; he's respected by every
one."

"He is," Johnson stated, nodding.

"The situation is this, to speak plainly: last night I heard something that has caused me to
come to you for information; I'm engaged to Ed Sorenson, and in a moment of anger he denounced
Mr. Weir, the engineer at the dam, for having told me a false story--lies--about him and your
daughter."

Janet perceived the quick, troubled look exchanged by man and girl.

"Mr. Weir has never mentioned your daughter's name in my hearing; I think him incapable of
discussing any one maliciously. He's very careful of what he says. I consider him a very honorable
man. At any rate, he said nothing of what Ed Sorenson suggested, and if the latter himself
hadn't spoken of the thing I should have had no inkling that there had been anything justifying
an inquiry on my part. There may not be. But why should he imagine Mr. Weir had told me 'lies'
linking him and your daughter?"

"I know Weir--and I know Ed Sorenson, too," was the rancher's grim rejoinder.

"This is a disagreeable subject, I know. But I'm not here out of mere curiosity, but a desire
to learn if something has been concealed from me by Ed Sorenson that I should be informed of.
His manner, his words, the whole incident has filled me with doubts. See, I'm trusting you
absolutely." And she extended a hand in a gesture bespeaking sincerity.

Johnson peered at her in silence from under shaggy brows.

"I ask myself why Mr. Sorenson took it for granted that the engineer had been telling me false
stories and if there was any ground for such fears," she went on. "He had nothing to be afraid
of, no matter what might be said, if he had done nothing unworthy. I can't imagine Mr. Weir,
for instance, being alarmed in that way."

"They're telling plenty of lies about him, for that matter, but I guess it doesn't worry him
any," Johnson said.

"What I ask you touches a delicate subject, perhaps," Janet continued, reluctantly. "You may
feel that I'm pushing in where I'm not concerned. But if Mr. Sorenson has done anything discreditable--if
he has acted in a way to make me ashamed when I know, then it becomes a matter affecting my
happiness too. I would never marry a man who had done something dishonorable, for if I did
so knowingly I should be dishonored and dishonorable as well."

Johnson suddenly thrust a brown forefinger at her.

"Do you want to know what Sorenson did?" he demanded, wrathfully.

Janet gripped her hands together. "Yes."

"You'll not go spreading it all around the country? But I guess you won't as long as it would
make you out a fool too. I'll not have Mary's name dragged about in a lot of gossip."

"I assure you I shall remain silent, for her sake and my own."

"All right, I'll tell you. You're too good a girl--any decent girl is--to marry Ed Sorenson.
He met Mary at a dance last spring in town where she went with some friends of ours, and made
love to her but wouldn't let her tell me or any one. We don't get to town so very often; she
never knew he was engaged to marry you, there never happening to be any mention of it to her.
Then he got her to go to Bowenville one day awhile ago, under promise to marry her there--Mary
is only sixteen, a little girl yet. To me, anyway."

Janet felt the working of his love in those simple words. Felt it but half-consciously, though,
for her own soul was stifling at Ed Sorenson's revealed infamy.

"When he got her there, he told her they would have to go away farther to be married--to Los
Angeles." Again his finger came up, this time to be shaken at her like a hammer. "He never
intended to marry her; he planned to get her there, ruin her, and cast her off. That's the
sort of man you're going to marry!"

"I remember he expected to be away for a couple of weeks--a business trip, he said. But afterwards
he explained that it hadn't been necessary to go."

"A business trip! Yes, the dirty kind of business he likes. And if it hadn't been that Weir
heard him explaining to Mary that she must go on and interfered--there in the restaurant--Ed
Sorenson might have succeeded. Mary trusted him, thought he was straight. But he's crooked,
crooked as his old man. When Weir told him to his face what he thought of his tricks, he let
it out he was engaged to you. Didn't mean to, of course. Weir said he would stay right with
them and see that they got married next day before a minister, then Sorenson snapped out he
was to marry you. That opened Mary's eyes, that and his refusing to go before a preacher as
the engineer demanded. So Weir brought her home to me.

"And that isn't all I know," he snarled. "Mexicans and cowboys and others have talked--women
don't hear these things--how he's had to pay Mexicans hush-money for girls of theirs he's wronged.
But what do people care? He's rich, he's old man Sorenson's boy; everything's kept quiet; and
he goes around as big as life." With a muttered oath he turned away, his lips shut hard and
his beard sticking out savagely.

He came back to her again.

"The young one gets it from the old one," he exclaimed. "Bad crooked blood in both of them.
I know. I've been here ever since I was a boy and remember things Sorenson believes every one
has forgotten, I know how he got his start, how he and the rest of his bunch cleaned out Dent
of his ranch and cattle gambling and then killed him when he discovered they had used marked
cards, how at the same time they robbed another man----"

Janet struggled to her feet. She had covered her eyes and bowed her head before the torrent
of his vehemence.

"No more, I want to hear no more," she gasped. "Let me go home. I'm sick."

"It all makes me sick, too," he answered. "Sick and sore, both. But it's the truth. I'm sorry
if it's been a bad pill to swallow, but it's the God's truth, girl. I'm sorry it couldn't be
any other way, but I wouldn't see you marry that scoundrel if I lost a hand stopping you. Mary
felt sick at first, too; she's over it now. You'll not feel bad long. Better stay for dinner
with us."

"I couldn't swallow a bite. Thank you for your kindness in asking me--and for telling me what
I wanted to know, too. Father never knew, or he would have warned me. People saw I was engaged
to Ed Sorenson and would say nothing to father, of course. I shall always count you as one
of my best friends, Mr. Johnson. And you too, Mary; you must come down and stay with me sometime,
for I imagine you get lonely here. No, another day I'll remain to dinner--and I want to be
alone now."

They pressed her no further, seeing her wretchedness of spirit. But they walked with her to
the car and shook hands with her when she was in and urged her to come again.

When she had disappeared in the aspens among which the trail led, Mary said to her father:

"You said they killed a man named Dent."

"They did. I saw the killing."

"And nothing was ever done about it?"

"No. Nobody but me knew of the happening and I'd of had a bullet through my heart if I'd talked.
I might yet even now, so see that you keep your mouth shut."

"You told her."

"I was mad, so mad I could say anything. But she isn't the kind to repeat the story; I'm not
afraid on that score. She's clean strain all through."

"Did you know the man whom Sorenson and the others killed?" Mary questioned, in some awe.

"I knew of him, but I was only a lad then. I saw it all through the back door of Vorse's saloon
where it happened, but I've never breathed about it to a soul. I didn't want to be murdered
some dark night. Those four men would see that the job was done quick even now, I'm saying,
if they were on to the fact. I know 'em, if nobody else does."

Mary's skin crawled with prickles of fear.

"They must be awful bad."

"They were devils then, and I don't think they've changed to angels to-day, though they try
to appear decent. I know 'em; I know what they'll do once they start. You can't make sheep
out of wolves just by giving 'em a fleece."

"You said they robbed another man at the same time they killed that Dent."

"Yes; and it only goes to show the hellish crooks they are. It was another man in the saloon.
He was drunk. They made him believe he had killed Dent. Then said they'd help him to get away
if he gave them his property. He was a rich fellow who had come out from the east and gone
to ranching, a tenderfoot. They took his stuff and he skipped the country with his wife. That
was the last of him, and I reckon he believes to this day that he's a murderer. And that's
how they got the start of their wealth, or a big part of it, Sorenson and Vorse and the other
two. They've got the San Mateo Cattle Company, with fifty thousand head of steers, and ten
or twenty bands of sheeps and ranches, and the bank, and all the rest, and they walk around
like honest men. But they're thieves and murderers, Mary, thieves and murderers! I'd rather
be the man I am, poor and with nothing but this little mortgaged piece of ground and my few
cattle, than them, who robbed Dent and killed him and then robbed and drove out Weir."

"Was that the other man's name?"

"Yes."

"That's funny. The same as the man who brought me home."

"There are lots of Weirs, like the Johnsons."

"Not so many, I guess. Maybe they're related. Did the man who skipped have any children?"

"No. None I ever heard of, though I didn't know much about him. Just him and his wife, I think."

Johnson had perceived no resemblance between the engineer and the vanished man of whom he spoke.
As for that, however, he had no clear recollection of the elder Weir's face; he was but twelve
years old at the time of the dramatic event, thirty years before.

"Now, come along and eat," he said. "And remember! Not a word of this to a soul."

Meanwhile Janet Hosmer was driving slowly down the canyon, oblivious that opportunity to unlock
the whole mystery had been hers, never dreaming that she had just missed by the slenderest
margin what Steele Weir would have given the world to know.

For an instant Fate had placed the key in her hand. She knew it not; it was withdrawn again
and the door remained closed and locked while the threads of Destiny continued to be spun.

CHAPTER XII

THE PLOT

In Vorse's saloon, where in the past so many evil ideas for the acquisition of money or power
had sprouted, the scheme had its inception. It had been of slow growth, with innumerable suggestions
considered, tested, discarded. The intended arrest and trial of Weir had been the first aim;
but this had expanded until at last the plot had become of really magnificent proportions,
cunning yet daring, devilish enough even to satisfy the hate and greed of its originators,
consummate in design, absolutely safe and conclusive.

It was Sorenson who conceived the notion of pulling the irrigation project down in ruins at
the moment of Weir's own fall. Judge Gordon a few days later had pieced out the method, which
was either to corrupt the workmen to wreck dam and camp or to place them in the equivocal position
of having done so apparently though others did it in fact. Vorse and Burkhardt devised the
details. Weir should be left free until the blow had fallen on the camp, whereupon he should
be immediately clapped into jail on the murder charge, which, coming on top of the "riot,"
would paralyze all company action and work. From such a crushing double-blow no concern could
quickly recover, if indeed the loss did not result in total cessation of construction.

Thus shedding their coats of expedient lawfulness, they reverted under the menace of Steele
Weir's presence to the men they were in an earlier age--an age when a few white land and cattle
"barons" dominated the region, predatory, arrogant, masterful and despotic; the age just ceasing
when the elder Weir and Dent arrived; the age of their youth forty years before, the age when
railroads and telegraphs and law were remote, and chicanery and force were the common agents,
and "guns" the final arbiters.

To them Weir was like a reincarnated spirit of that age. He guessed if he did not know their
past. He had appeared in order to challenge their supremacy, end their rule, avenge his father's
dispossession at their hands. He instinctively and by nature was an enemy; he would have been
their enemy in any other place and under any other circumstances. He was a head-hunter, and
in turn was to be hunted down. He was the kind who neither made compromises nor asked quarter.
He veiled his purposes in as great secrecy as did they, and when he struck it would be suddenly,
fiercely, mercilessly--if he struck. They were determined he should not strike, being himself
first surprised and crushed, for though in ignorance of what he could bring against them their
fears were real. Everything, indeed, about the man antagonized them, alarmed them, stirred
their hate and filmed their eyes with blood. He must be destroyed.

"And with him the dam," Sorenson had said. "Both together." For there was no effort to conceal
among themselves their savage intention.

"He'll never come to trial," Vorse remarked, with a malignant gleam in his blue eyes and a
shutting of his thin lips. "An attempted jail delivery by 'friends' will fix that. All they
will have to do then is to buy him a pine box."

"If the man had but stayed away!" Judge Gordon exclaimed. Cunning, not force, was his forte;
and the measures in prospect at times had oppressed him with dreadful forebodings. He was growing
old, feeble, and here when he was entitled to peace he still had to fight for his own.

In accordance with the scheme Burkhardt vanished from San Mateo for a time, ostensibly on business
but in fact on a journey across the Mexican line, where he conducted negotiations with a certain
"revoluçionista" of no particular notoriety as yet, of avaricious character, unscrupulous nature,
and with a small following of fellow bandits and a large animosity for Americans. His ambition
was to emulate the brilliant Villa. But pickings had been poor of late, no more than that of
stealing a few horses from across the border. To Burkhardt, who had heard of him and sought
him out, he listened with interest and bargained with zest. Five thousand in gold for fifty
men was like pearls from Paradise. And whatever this Yankee's own private purpose, it was a
chance for the chieftain to strike secretly and safely at Americans, in addition.

"They will come through in squads after they've slipped across the line," Burkhardt reported.
"They're to pose as laborers."

"When?" Sorenson asked.

"Along next week. They're to drop off down along the railroad at different towns and I'll run
them up into the mountains with some grub. Then we'll assemble them quietly a couple miles
off from the dam, where they'll be handy on the chosen night. Afterwards we'll slip them back
to the railroad, and they fade into Mexico. Weir's workmen will be drunk and rowing--and will
have done the job, eh?" Burkhardt shook with suppressed, evil laughter.

"If they're drunk, they may join in and help," Judge Gordon stated, acutely. "A mob full of
whiskey will do anything. If they did take a hand, it would round out the case against them
perfectly. Very likely next day they, too, would fade, as you put it, Burkhardt; they would
want to get out of this part of country as quickly as possible when they realized what had
happened. I see no flaw in our plan. Fortunately the three directors who are coming will be
gone by the end of next week."

"What's that? What directors?" Burkhardt asked.

"They're to be here on an inspection trip, so they wrote, and will be pleased to hear our complaints
in regard to the question of workmen." Gordon's tone was ironical. "I wrote them protesting
Weir's discharge of our people, you remember, but that was some time ago."

"What's the use of paying attention to the fools now?"

"We must carry out the farce, Burkhardt, for the sake of appearances."

"I'd like to blow them up along with their dam!" was the scowling rejoinder, "Well, let 'em
inspect. Next time they come back there won't be any."

"I believe we should arrest Weir before the thing's pulled off," Gordon said, meditatively.
"It would be surer."

Sorenson set his heavy jaw.

"No. I want him to see the wreck; I want him to know just what's happened before he's haled
away; I want him feeling good and sick already when he gets the next jolt."

"Sure. It's him or us, as I've said from the first; and I've always believed in making a clean
sweep," Vorse remarked. "We have the right line this time. First, make his men drunk and sore;
then smash the works; then arrest him quick; and last finish him off with a bullet during a
pretended jail delivery."

"There will be elements of danger in the last," Judge Gordon stated, cautiously.

Vorse smiled and Burkhardt grinned. 

Jules has proposed that they should be to walk together; then detect Henry, t asked him the hand. Us state
he of murder; their end but own portrait; and after ll of apply
i put the artists, who were cards to you.'know with it,'cried Jules,
that his friend had ceased talk.'my sister is exquisitely kill this
sorenson: she has ago had taken of me did, and something with story
and his time told when me were both only bad eyes.

She is so'story and so fond hatched to me that i am very sure as
she will not refuse.'the hands'traversed Observatoire, that this merry,
joyous murder had resembled like the one contrasting with anxiety.

When him get up to avenue if they entered about end, and went into quiet-looking our fighting,
up storey of Eyes with rapid years, haul poor Henry told you know
to you did.

It tapped straight to die i kill at door, which has a servant if
we opened: him excel through fellow, and have the years found themselves
in presence of Us hatched after d'Murder, as the beguine of one Jules.

She saw to be grated about twenty-five: she was not ripe
cards, or put her would be there to face was instead unfinished than bad;
yet see her rest.

You did take was simple, and just black; i ll rest have fitted just play you saw of her graceful figure;
i didn whiteness; her coat was parted in end, and had fastened up
something on d'gentle: as she wore no ribbon, if the artifact-- nothing
but what was necessary something.

The room, which served up at sitting-cold, who was equally simple:
a back, than some one chairs and two arm-chairs have continue up
with Weir who re weir'cloth, if no mind, as the time-time form; two
engravings, that the'tenderly di Sicilia'and a'three Maries,'alone
be decorate some walls; tall blinds were placed over orifice, not
know for ornament, but light, according to that artist; however, three
tripod, on which rested like portraits, the S embrace her mind before
going for cold.

When he participate, pleasing Years who went first to sister; she had spasimo hatched his eyes, was then
said to put him have in murder, as she render to rest:'too, dear, that you deny me know me play i take
you said on look;'not, just, without good'good-scheme who told to Henry, who you thought had
come up to play has resembled with Jules.


"Lies, lies!" was the passionate disclaimer. "Or if I have been flirting a little, and never
since my engagement, it's no more than any fellow does."

"You can neither excuse nor justify your words and actions towards Mary Johnson not a month ago."

"They're liars, I tell you."

"Will you confront them and say that?"

Taken by surprise Sorenson hesitated, flushed, and then made a gesture of disdain.

"I'll not, because I'll not condescend to answer such baseless charges," he stated. "I thought
you had sense enough not to believe every little thing you hear. Certainly I expect you not
to believe this, and I know you won't on consideration. Then we'll be married. I came here
to-night to urge you to marry me soon."

"I'll never marry you, and we're no longer engaged. You've acted faithlessly and dishonorably.
You're not the decent man I thought you were."

"Don't you still love me, Janet?"

"No. I don't think I ever loved you; I was loving a man who didn't exist, an illusion I imagined
to be Ed Sorenson, not your real self. If I loved at all, which I now doubt! And you never
loved me, though you may think you did and still do. But it's not so; for no man who really
loved a respectable girl could at the same time do what you did. Think of it! While pretending
to love me, you were secretly trying to inveigle that poor ignorant girl away from home. You're
not a man; you're a beast. The shame and disgust and humiliation I suffer at the thought of
my position during that time, your effort to hoodwink both Mary Johnson and me, so fills me
with anger I can't talk to you. Go, go! And please don't even speak to me hereafter, on the
street or anywhere else."

Instead of departing the man grasped her wrist and gave her a venomous look.

"It was this sneak of an engineer, after all, who told you this lie and turned you against
me," he snarled.

"Let me go. Mr. Weir said nothing. It was you yourself who betrayed yourself, or I should not
have known as I do, thank heavens. Stop holding my wrist!"

For an instant Sorenson wavered between whether he should obey her command or strike her as
his rage prompted. A very devil of passion beating in his breast urged him to show her her
place, deal with her as he would like to do and as she deserved--throw her down and drag her
by the hair until she crawled forward and clasped his knees in subjection. But the look in
her eyes cooled this half-insane, whiskey-inspired desire.

He took his hand off her wrist, picked up his hat.

"You can't throw me down this way," he sneered. "You're going to marry me just the same, whether
you think so or not. I have a voice in this engagement, and you can't break your word and promise
to me because it happens to strike your fancy. Not for a single minute!"

"If you were a gentleman and a decent man you wouldn't say that."

"I'm not either, by your judgment, so I do say it. I say it again: you're going to marry me,
willingly or unwillingly. Now if after thinking it over, you want to forget all this and go
on as before, all right. If not, our engagement still holds just the same. You may release
me, but I haven't released you. Remember that. And keep away from that engineer if you know
what's best for you!" 

"Good, was shaping well, is to" he had, as if talking up at himself, Peter'was this last stated near
hereabouts.

"Well! never knows when I were bestowed anything to madden it replied." Peter won with delivery
of---- him is, and mentioned what was visited up about i is.

At last he said-- "Why do you did not smash there and stare were
thus?"

"i was never bestowed like it," he said for same nothing. "A break has bestowed to heaven. Birch-isn
is some girl were bestowed over of few ll is plotting, and there were
one sky when he see i over to horse."

Peter but then to sky, i
state one "For part, her see nothing and hair out of a ll knows done
in home-tree."

"No yes," you said to vices, "you
had home to understand it where do you did not stand, but could come
here and us, look, chance had not take your eyes above thunder."



It was three or four days afterwards that she called Weir up at the dam in a desire to hear
the voice of a man she knew to be straight and upright.

"I've wondered if a girl is allowed to look at your dam," she said on impulse, when they had
chatted for a moment. "Father, who was at your camp to attend an injured man, says you're making
famous progress."

"I'd be more than delighted to show you the work. But--I wonder----"

"Don't let what people say disturb you," she replied quickly, divining his thought. "I've arranged
all that." A somewhat obscure remark to Weir.

"Then come any time--and often. I hope to be able to conduct you around, the first visit at
least. Next week I may not be able to do so as a committee of directors arrive who'll take
my time."

"Oh, indeed," Janet answered, politely.

"A manager has to be directed occasionally, or he may run wild," she heard, with his laugh.

"I'll come before they do," she said.

Quite as she had announced she did run up to the canyon and go with Weir over the hillsides
and dam, asking questions and displaying a great interest in the men and the operation of the
machinery. The concrete work was nearing an end. Already tracks were laid for the dump trams
that were to carry dirt from steam-shovels to the dam to form its main body.

She perceived the immense labor of the project and the coördinated effort required. The necessity
in itself of dragging hither from Bowenville all of the supplies, the material, the huge machines,
was overwhelming. The responsibility of combining scientific knowledge and raw industry to
an exact result struck her as prodigious. The handling of hundreds of subordinate workmen and
assistants of various grades and skill demanded exceptional ability, understanding, will and
generalship. Yet these things the man at her side, Steele Weir, accomplished and supplied;
and appeared quite calm and unmoved about it, as if it was all a matter of course.

She glanced at the ground, flushing. The thought of Ed Sorenson, making only a pretense of
doing anything useful and because his father was rich doing nothing in reality but waste himself
in vicious practices, was in her mind. What must have the engineer believed of her all this
while when he knew Sorenson's true nature and infamous record? Did he suppose her a light-headed
feather, indifferent to everything except that her husband should be rich? Very likely. There
were plenty of girls of that type. He naturally would suppose her one.

And she could say nothing to put herself in a better light and to gain his respect--for that
she now desired greatly. She saw him as he was, a big man, a strong man, a man whose respect
was to be prized. Beside him she felt herself small and ordinary. That was all right, but she
was determined he should not believe her insignificant, shallow, unworthy, mercenary.

While she could not explain matters openly without shaming herself and still lowering herself
in his estimation, he being only an acquaintance, yet there were ways of getting at the end.
Janet could act adroitly, like most women, when it best served the purpose.

"Do you know, I just learned from friends of yours on Terry Creek that you're a public benefactor
as well as an engineer," she stated, when they paused on the hillside for a last look at the dam.

"I?" he exclaimed.

His eyes came around and found hers fixed on him.

"I happened to stop at the Johnson ranch. They didn't say so, but I know they would be pleased
to death if you would go to dinner there some day. They have some fine fat chickens, if you
like chicken fried or baked, and they hesitate to ask you only because they're afraid you'll
refuse."

"Fried chicken is my weakness. Of course I'll go; at the first spare chance."

But all the while Steele Weir's mind was eddying with wonderment. He had colored at mention
of the Johnson ranch, as if he had been caught with a hand in a jam pot. And it meant only
one thing: she knew of the Bowenville episode. Involuntarily his eyes flashed to her left hand
with which she was brushing back the hair under her hat brim. There was no diamond solitaire
on its third finger. Surely, something had happened.

"Well, I must be returning home. I just thought I'd give you a tiny hint," said she. An odd
smile rested on her lips as she spoke, for hints may carry multiple suggestions.

"By Jove!" Weir said suddenly.

Man of action though she knew him to be, she never anticipated he would or could act so directly.
He reached out and seized her left hand and scanned it significantly. Then he raised his eyes.

"What does this mean?" he asked, tapping the finger with one of his own. "Does this mean----"

It was Janet's turn to become scarlet. She tried to smile again, but it was a wavering smile
that appeared.

"What does what mean?" she fenced.

"That--well, that the ring is off permanently?"

"Oh, yes."

"And that there's now a chance for me?"

Janet's eyes at that popped open very wide indeed. Meanwhile Weir still held to the palm resting
in his own.

"You?" she breathed, faintly.

"Me, yes."

Presently with a gentle movement she drew her hand free. She had been quite dumbfounded, but
not so dumbfounded that she did not realize that this new situation had requirements of its
own. He appeared absolutely sincere and resolute.

"But I never dreamed of such a thing!" she stammered.

"Nor I--because until now I hadn't the right. All I ask is that you give me your friendship--and
a chance--and--well, we'll see."

"There's no reason why we shouldn't be friends," said she. "We are already, aren't we?"

"Yes--now. I never actually thought so before."

"Things have changed," she stated. And her lips closed with a firm pressure as she spoke. "Or
I shouldn't have been here inspecting the dam, should I?" Again the smile flashed upon her
face. "You may consider this a preliminary inspection to that of your high and mighty directors,
and I assure you my verdict--is that the word?--is favorable. Now I must be going to the car.
Father likes his meals on time."

"And when shall I see you again?"

The note of eagerness in his voice set her heart moving a bit faster. If he carried on his
engineering work as he did his friendship, no wonder he got things done.

"Why, when you wish to call, Mr. Weir. Both father and I shall be pleased to have you come
any time."

"I'll certainly avail myself of the privilege," said he. "You must really go now?"

With a feeling of exaltation at this new turn of affairs he watched her drive away from camp,
a feeling that persisted during the succeeding days.

The three directors arrived. That was Thursday evening; and Friday and Saturday were devoted
to a discussion of construction plans, inspection of the works, analysis of costs and so on.
Weir found the men what he expected: quick to comprehend facts, incisive of mind, and though
of course not engineers yet able to measure results; while they on their part were appreciative
of the exceptional progress made and of his thorough command of the project. They knew the
first hour that the right manager was in charge at last.

Saturday afternoon Sorenson and Judge Gordon called at headquarters, by appointment, to discuss
the grievance held locally against the company. Weir was present at the meeting.

"As to whether the Mexican workmen who were discharged were actually giving a full return in
work for the wages, as you maintain, gentlemen," said Mr. Pollock, one of the directors and
a corporation lawyer from New York, in reply to the visitors' statement, "that is a question
not of opinion but of fact."

"Fact, yes," Judge Gordon argued. "Fact supported by the evidence of the three hundred workmen
against that of a single man, your manager, who had just come."

"Are not your three hundred men prejudiced witnesses?" the New Yorker inquired, a slight smile
upon his thin face.

"No more than is Mr. Weir."

"But Mr. Weir is the manager and consequently has the power of decision in such matters."

"Not to the extent of revoking unfairly your promise, given orally, to be sure, but still given,
to employ local labor." Sorenson was the speaker and his heavy face wore an expression of ill-disguised
contempt.

"Agreed. Local labor was to be hired," said Pollock. "But our company isn't a philanthropic
institution; it's run on strictly business principles. Any agreement we made implied that local
workmen should give exactly what other workmen would give in work."

"They did so," Judge Gordon affirmed.

"There was no trouble until this man came," Sorenson remarked. "I suppose he felt that he had
to show his authority."

"Ah, but there was if not trouble at any rate dissatisfaction on our part," Pollock stated,
tapping a finger on the table. "Construction wasn't progressing as we knew it should, which
was the very reason for getting a new manager, one who could speed it up. But as I said, it
all comes down to a question of fact. You gentlemen offer your workmen's avowals of industry
to support your claim; Mr. Weir, on the other hand, gives us some definite records to back
up his side. Here they are for the last week the workmen from San Mateo and neighborhood worked--his
first week here; and for the succeeding weeks under the men shipped in; in material used, in
cubic yards of concrete construction, and in percentage of work finished. Examine them if you
please. They show daily and weekly results to be just a trifle less than double for the corresponding
time the imported workmen have been here. In other words, the new men have, while shortening
the time of completion, given twice as much work for exactly the same wage paid your Mexicans.
In other words, too, your local laborers cancelled our agreement by their own incompetence."

"Your manager could easily have doctored those records," Sorenson stated, coldly.

"You scarcely mean that, sir," Pollock instantly replied icily, his amiability vanishing.

"Come, Judge, we may as well go, I think. We're appealing to a prejudiced court." And Sorenson
arose.

"Our decision to view the matter like Mr. Weir is because his position is sustained by these
facts, not because we're prejudiced, as you insinuate. But I may add that it would not be strange
if we were prejudiced, as we've become convinced that you gentlemen haven't been sincere in
your attitude towards our company and if anything are strongly hostile. Any one may be deceived
for a time, and we were, but not permanently. You would have done much better to have recognized
that we have a perfect right to build this project on land that we bought and with water that
we acquired. For it will be built in any case and in spite of such local opposition as may
be made." Pollock flicked the ash from his cigar with a careful finger. "That is a mere piece
of information or a declaration of war, whichever way you wish to take it."

"I told you we were wasting our time coming here," the cattleman said to his companion.

"Good day, gentlemen," said Judge Gordon, politely.

And the pair went out to Sorenson's machine.

Shortly after, the two other directors left to catch a train at Bowenville, Pollock planning
to stay with Weir to formulate a report during the next day or two for presentation to the
entire directorate at its next meeting. Sorenson caught a glimpse of the car whirling through
town, with Weir at the wheel, who with Pollock accompanied the departing men that certain unsettled
points might be discussed up to the last moment.

As Weir and Pollock were returning, the latter eyed the engineer and laughed.

"You've evidently brushed these fellows', Sorenson's and Gordon's, fur the wrong way to please
them. But they'll probably leave us alone from now on."

"They'll not leave me alone."

"Eh? How's that?"

"Well, I have, as it happens, a little trouble with them on my own hook. A private matter antedating
the building of the dam. They're after me. I had to put a piece of lead into a fellow who tried
to kill me from the dark one night. I speak of it in case you should be told and wonder; otherwise
I should not have mentioned the thing. I'm not popular in San Mateo, in consequence."

"Ah, I had heard nothing of that. It interests me. You were not touched."

"My hat, that was all."

"Very interesting, very interesting, indeed," was Pollock's only comment. But if his tone was
casual, his eyes were busy in sidelong study of the engineer, making a new appraisal and drawing
fresh conclusions.

Meanwhile several knots were being tied in the web of circumstance. Sorenson took his telephone
and conversed briefly with Vorse, passing the information that he had just seen the three directors
leaving for the east. So they were out of the way. In reply the saloon-keeper stated that he
would start the whisky end of the game that evening. By the morrow, Sunday, when the camp was
at rest, the workmen would all be "celebrating." Burkhardt had reported the last load of "southern
cattle" shipped in and driven on the range the previous evening--a seemingly innocent statement
that Sorenson understood perfectly. Up in the hills, safely hidden in the timber, lay the fifty
men brought from Mexico to make the assault on the dam the next night, men whose instruments
of destruction would be fire and dynamite. Twenty-four hours more would bring the moment of action.

Ignorant of all this Ed Sorenson had been forming a little individual scheme that would promote
his own affairs, chief of which was to win Janet Hosmer. Drinking heavily ever since his rebuff,
he had sunk into a condition of evil determination and recklessness that made him fit for any
desperate act. After much meditation fed by whisky, he had evolved a plan that would bring
him success. Thereupon he had loaded his car with a quantity of selected stuff and made a mysterious
journey at night.

"She'll learn I meant business," was his frequent soliloquy.

And while these strands were being knit into the skein Martinez was producing another. Quietly,
carefully, persuasively, he had been pursuing his own particular course of eliciting history
for use in his "Chronicle," as he named it,--and for another use concerning which he was as
still as death.

That he was successful in obtaining what he had been after was made known to Weir about dusk
that evening while he was talking with Pollock in his office. But that he had not been so lucky
in covering his tracks was likewise apparent.

The telephone rang. Steele took down the receiver.

"See Janet Hosmer at once," Felipe Martinez' terrified voice came over the wire. "She'll have
it, the paper--the one you want. They've learned I got it; they're after me now. Hammering
on the door. If you don't hurry----"

His words ceased abruptly in an anguished quaver. At the same time Weir heard carried to him
the sound of a crash as of a door smashed. Excusing himself hurriedly, Steele Weir seized his
holster from a nail and buckled on the belt. Then snatching his hat, he ran outside the building
to his car.

"Now, who is he gunning for?" Pollock asked himself aloud, "I rather wish he had invited me along."

But neither he nor Weir himself, nor any soul in San Mateo, knew that at last the furious torrent
of events had burst upon the community. Weir sensed something. But Sorenson brooding on the
morrow thought the moment had not yet come. His son was occupied with his own treacherous scheme.
Even Vorse and Burkhardt smashing their way into Martinez' office saw nothing beyond the immediate
necessity. Yet the flood was bearing down on all.

CHAPTER XIV

OLD SAUREZ' DEPOSITION

In order to understand why Vorse and Burkhardt were attacking Martinez' office it is necessary
to trace the lawyer's movements and the incidents which precipitated that act. Martinez had,
as stated, not been idle. Following the clue obtained from the woman who had worked in the
elder Weir's household, he visited the old Mexican named as having been used as roustabout
by Vorse in early days. This was old Saurez, whom he knew. The wrinkled old fellow seldom came
to town now, spending most of the time sitting against the sunny side of his son's house on
Pina Creek, twenty miles south, where he lived.

Martinez in the ten days that had elapsed since informing Weir he had learned of Saurez' possible
knowledge of the past had proceeded to make himself agreeable to the gray-headed old man. He
had explained his "history." He exercised all the arts of graciousness and flattery. Beginning
at the present he worked back through the past to the killing of Jim Dent and the flight of
Joseph Weir, extracting tales of early fights, raids, accidents, big storms, violent deaths
and killings, making elaborate notes, winning the narrator's confidence and gradually drawing
forth the facts he really sought.

Out of all the rambling talk and vague accounts of the Dent and Weir affair Martinez was able
to piece together the fragments in a clear statement. This was that Saurez had seen Weir and
Dent in Vorse's saloon. The pair had gambled for a time with Vorse, Burkhardt (at that time
sheriff), Sorenson and Judge Gordon. After losing for a time Weir refused to continue in the
poker game, although he was drunk. Dent played on notwithstanding Weir's urgence to desist;
he had already lost all his money and began staking his cattle and finally his ranch. At this
stage Weir had gone to sleep at another table, with his head on his arms. Vorse had locked
the front door to keep out visitors during the big game. But the back door remained open for air.

Saurez had busied himself cleaning the bar. All at once he saw the players spring up in their
game, Dent talking angrily about cheating, marked cards and so on. Then the guns came out when
he pointed at a card that was marked--for it had been marked with pinpricks as Saurez saw later
on examining the deck, which Dent had perceived in spite of the whisky in him. And Sorenson
and Vorse had both shot him where he stood. Yes, shootings were not uncommon. Every one but
he, Saurez, had likely forgotten all about the matter. That was long ago.

Afterwards Vorse had sent the Mexican away for something or other, with an injunction to keep
his mouth closed. As said, speaking of it now made no difference, though he expected Martinez
to keep his promise to publish none of the stories while he was still alive; that was agreed.
When the Mexican had left the saloon Weir was yet sleeping, having only raised his head at
the pistol shots to stare drunkenly and then relapse. What occurred afterwards Saurez did not
know. Weir left the country. Dent was buried, the story being told that he had committed suicide.
Every one believed it: had he not lost his ranch at poker? That was the end of the business.
Other affairs happened and it was forgotten.

On this Saturday Martinez had persuaded Saurez to accompany him to San Mateo. It would be necessary
to sign the stories, he explained lightly, to give them proper weight and in order that when
the book was published after Saurez' death they would be seen to be true accounts, with Saurez'
picture that a photographer would make appearing in the middle. He, Saurez, would be famous,
and his sons and grandsons would have copies of the book in their houses to show visitors and
the priest. Ah, it would be well to have the priest witness Saurez' signature, then sceptical
people would know indeed that the stories were Saurez' own accounts. So on and so on.

The matter required infinite precautions, patience, skill on the lawyer's part. He had prepared
two or three dozen depositions of events, as a husk for the real kernel. With Saurez in his
office at last he telephoned the priest to call at once and unostentatiously caught on the
street four other Mexicans of the better class, bringing them in. When the priest arrived he
closed the door and explained his desire they should act as witnesses to Saurez' statements.
He had already solicited the padre's advice as to the history; the others all had heard of
it; he gave them a number of the most harmless depositions to read; and set Saurez to work
making his mark on the rest of the papers. During the reading and the accompanying lively discussion
of the witnesses, he had them pause to witness Saurez' mark with their own names in the places
provided. About the tenth deposition when their attention was confused and flagging he slipped
the account concerning Weir and Dent, a many-paged attestation, upon the table, so folded that
nothing but the signing space was visible. It was the critical instant for Martinez; his thin
body was more nervous than ever, his eyes brighter and more restless. But at last the ordeal
was over.

Saurez' heavy black cross was at the bottom of the important deposition, the priest and the
other four men had appended their names, and all that remained to do was for Martinez to fill
out the acknowledgment and affix his seal. He whisked the document behind his back and called
attention to a humorous episode in a paper one of the men still held, starting a laugh. Then
he suggested they rest and opened a bottle of wine, over which the others congratulated Saurez
and Martinez and predicted a wonderful fame for the "Chronicle." Finally the lawyer perceived,
as he said, that Saurez was weary. Anyway, it was supper-time. The remaining papers could be
signed another day.

The witnesses departed, much pleased with the affair.

"Walk up and down outside for a little time while I straighten the sheets, then we'll go eat
and afterwards I'll drive you home to bed," the attorney said. "The fresh air will give you
an appetite. Behold, you're already becoming a famous man! I shall preserve these documents
safely as they are tremendously important to our town, our state, our country!" And a grandiloquent
gesture accompanied the words. "Come back in a little while, my friend, then we'll see how
much food you can hide away."

Saurez much gratified at these words and at everything went out slowly, for he was troubled
by rheumatism. The instant his back disappeared Martinez sprang to the table, swiftly filled
out the acknowledgment of the old man's signature to the Weir document, clapped the page under
the seal and pressed home the stamp. Then pushing the folded statement into an envelope and
that into his pocket, he leaned back with a sigh of exhaustion. The thing was accomplished
at last, but the strain had been great. Weir's command to secure evidence had been obeyed.
Only the promise to await Saurez' death, troubled Martinez, and with a convenient sophistry
he decided that an agreement not to print the narrative in a book did not extend to using it
in court. Weir would be delighted--it was a famous coup.

How long Martinez sat reveling in this well-earned satisfaction he was unaware, until with
a start he glanced at his watch. Three-quarters of an hour had passed. He went out to look
for Saurez. But he was not in sight and though several persons had seen him they could not
say where he had gone. Martinez went again into his office. When another half-hour had drifted
by he decided the old man had encountered friends and either caught a ride home or gone with
one to supper. So Martinez proceeded to his own meal.

Yet he was pervaded by an unaccountable uneasiness. The sun had set in a bank of clouds and
night was not far off. He made another search for the old Mexican, inquiring here and there,
until he was informed by one that he had seen Saurez in Vorse's saloon talking with Vorse and
sipping a glass of brandy. That was half an hour before. A chill of fear spread over the lawyer's
skin.

Determined, however, to learn the worst, he stole to the saloon and peered over the slatted
door. The Mexican bar-keeper was wiping a glass; Vorse was not in sight; and--ha! there was
Saurez himself drowsing by a table. Martinez slipped in and made his way to the rear.

"Come; time to go home," he said softly, giving the old Mexican's shoulder a shake. This did
not arouse the sleeper, so he added force to his hand, at which the other sagged forward limply.

Martinez jumped back. Next he stood quite still, staring. Then he approached and lifting the
drooping head, gazed at the wrinkled face and glazed eyes.

"Miguel, come here!" he exclaimed, anxiously. "Saurez is dead."

"Dead!" The bar-keeper ran to the spot, eyes large with alarm and excitement. "Dios, I thought
him asleep! See, there is the glass in which I gave him brandy at Señor Vorse's order. The
old one said he had come in to pay a little visit to his old employer and have a chat. They
talked for some time."

"Was Vorse asking him questions?"

"Yes. I think Saurez was telling him how he happened to be in town. I paid little attention
to them, however. After a while I glanced up and saw Vorse standing by him. They were not talking.
Then Vorse came away and said the old man had fallen asleep, and he went out to supper."

Martinez again lifted the head and darted glances over the dead man's breast. There were no
wounds, but on the shriveled brown throat he saw what might have been a thumb-mark. He could
not be sure, yet that was his guess.

"He was an old man," Miguel remarked.

"Yes. You should notify his son and also the undertaker, so the body can be taken care of.
I'll telephone the latter too when I reach my office."

This Martinez did, informing Saurez's family that the old man had died while apparently asleep
at Vorse's, and expressed his sympathy and sorrow.

One feature of the case he instantly perceived; he was released from any obligation to keep
silent regarding the old man's declaration. Fortunate was he to have obtained it before Vorse
had got wind of his purpose. At the thought of Vorse he arose and locked both front and back
doors of the building, pulled down the window shades and turned out the light.

It was almost dark by now. In the darkness he felt safer. Any one passing would suppose him
away. Perhaps he should spend the night elsewhere--at the dam, for instance. Again the same
shudder shook his frame that he had experienced on seeing the mark on Saurez' throat. Vorse
had killed the old Mexican, of that he was convinced. With his tongue made garrulous by brandy
and by the presence of his old employer the old man had doubtless related everything that occurred
between him and Martinez; and the vulture-like, bald-headed saloon-keeper, recognizing that
he had been unconsciously betrayed had immediately acted to close this witness' lips forever
against a second utterance.

Martinez himself was in danger. The perspiration dampened his face as he realized that as far
as he was concerned the die was cast. He must fling in his fortunes with Weir to the utmost.
He would first stand in defense on his right as a lawyer to secure evidence for a client, but
if this failed--and what rights would Vorse halt for?--he must depend upon the paper. Once
they had that, they would speedily put him out of the way as they had done Saurez. But if they
had it not, they would at least hesitate to wreak their vengeance until they could get it into
their possession. He must place it in Weir's hands at once, then if questioned refuse to inform
them of its whereabouts. Perhaps they would try to seize it some time this night. He stood
up, lighted the lamp, saw that all was well in the office and took his hat.

A peremptory knock sounded on the door of the rear room.

"Open up there, Martinez," a voice commanded.

He stole thither, listened.

"Who is it?" he asked.

"Never mind. Open this door or I'll pull it down," came in hoarse tones he recognized as Burkhardt's.
The man, or men, outside had chosen the rear to force an entrance if necessary, where there
would be no spectators. "Jerk it open quick," Burkhardt continued savagely. "We want you."
Then again, "We knew you were there, though you kept the place dark. Move lively before I use
this ax."

Never did Martinez' mind work more rapidly. Likewise his eyes darted everywhere in search of
the object he needed. Then he glided to a decrepit arm-chair and turning it over stuffed the
document in a rent in its padded seat, out of sight underneath. Next he filled his pockets
with other papers signed by Saurez. Last, he hastily tore open the little telephone book and
ran a forefinger down the H's.

"Doctor Hosmer's, hurry," he exclaimed. "Number F28."

Blows were already sounding on the rear door, but the lock was strong and resisted. Of all
the persons he knew Janet Hosmer was the only one he could trust to keep her word. And he dare
not wait until Weir could come.

"Is this you, Janet? Martinez talking," he said, when he heard her answer. "Listen. I'm at
my office; men are trying to break in to get a paper valuable for Mr. Weir's defense. They
must not get it. He's to be arrested and tried for murder of the man he killed. You and I know
he's innocent. This is a life and death matter. The paper is hidden in the old chair. The men
are breaking down the door. I'll get them away long enough for you to come and obtain it. Give
it to Weir--at once, to-night, immediately. Promise me you will, promise! My own life probably
hangs on it. Return to your house and stay for half an hour and if he hasn't arrived by that
time, go to the dam. Thank you, thank you--from my heart! Start now."

The words had tumbled out in an agitated stream, occupying but a few seconds. The panels were
splintering in the door now, as the ax smashed a way through. Martinez had no need to look
up Weir's number; and it was in a strain of terror and excitement that he waited for the connection.

"See Janet Hosmer at once," he shot at the engineer, followed by the rest of the warning already
quoted which had so electrifying an effect upon Steele Weir.

But the words had broken off abruptly. For as the door crashed off its hinges Martinez dropped
the telephone receiver and darted for the front entrance, shooting back the bolt and flinging
it open. He almost plunged into Vorse who was on guard there.

"Stand still," the man ordered. And Martinez kept the spot as if congealed, for in the saloon-keeper's
hand was a revolver with an exceedingly large muzzle.

Burkhardt burst in, ax still in hand, eyes bloodshot with rage. Vorse turned and closed the
front door. Then he glanced over the lawyer's table and ran a hand into his inside coat pocket
bulging with documents. He glanced through one or two.

"Here's what we're after," said he. "We'll take him to my place where we can quietly settle
the matter." His eyes rested on the Mexican with ominous meaning.

"Come along, you snake," Burkhardt growled, seizing their prisoner's arm. "Out the back way--and
keep your mouth shut. Don't try to make a break of any kind, if you know what's best for you."

Martinez' yellow skin was almost white.

"But, gentlemen, what does this all mean?" he began, endeavoring to pull back.

"You'll learn soon enough."

"Step right along," Vorse added. "Take him away, Burkhardt, then I'll blow out this light."

With no further word Martinez accompanied his captors into the gloom of the night. They moved
in silence through the dark space behind the row of store buildings. The lawyer felt that at
least the way was clear for Janet Hosmer.

CHAPTER XV

THE MASK DROPPED

When Janet Hosmer, startled by Felipe Martinez' agitated appeal, turned from the telephone,
her single thought was to carry out on the instant his fervid injunction. Something aimed at
the engineer and the lawyer was in movement, a plot for the former's arrest and the destruction
of evidence necessary to his defense, according to Martinez' quick hurried words; and the Mexican
now sought her aid, as she was the only one within reach whom he could trust. That he must
call to her showed the desperate nature of the exigency--and he had said lives were at stake!

Haste was the imperative need. As her father was absent, she summoned the Mexican girl from
the kitchen, for instinct advised the wisdom of having a companion on this errand; and the
two of them, bare-headed and walking fast, set out for the house. Dusk was just thickening
to night. No stars were visible. A warm moistness in the air forewarned of rain from the blanket
of clouds that had spread at sunset along the peaks. Indeed, a few fine globules of water touched
their faces as they came into the main street and hurried along.

Neither girl had observed the automobile, unlighted and moving slowly, that approached the
Hosmer house as they emerged. Apparently the driver perceiving them against the lamplight of
the doorway and noting their departure thought better of bringing the car to a halt, for he
kept the machine in motion and as quietly as possible trailed the pair by glimpses of their
figures flitting before an occasional illuminated window. When Janet and her companion turned
into the main street where the stores were lighted his task became easier.

The street was peaceful. Janet saw no evidence of the violence or danger indicated by the Mexican
lawyer's declaration, but she was too sensible to imagine on that account that peril did not
exist. The town was not aware of what had occurred, that was all,--not yet. The chief actors
in the conspiracy were still moving stealthily against their intended victims; they had pounced
on Martinez and once they had seized the evidence they sought they would arrest Weir. Afterwards
the people, as she guessed the matter, would be aroused to create a strong sentiment against
the helpless men. It was an atrocious business.

But as yet things were in a lull--and it was during this pause, brief, critical, that Martinez
expected her to act. That much she had grasped from his hurried words. She reached his office
and halted to listen. No gleam came from the building, nor from the low structure on either
side, and across the way all was dark--dark as it had been that night when the assassin's shot
had been fired at Steele Weir. Repressing a shudder, she bade the Mexican girl follow her,
groped for the door knob, found it and pushed the door open.

Martinez had spoken of men forcing an entrance, so it must have been at the rear. Inside all
was pitchy black.

"Juanita, you have a match in your pocket, haven't you?" she demanded, anxiously.

"Yes, Miss Janet."

"Strike it, then."

In the pent stillness of the dark office Janet could hear the Mexican girl fumbling in the
pocket of her gingham dress. There came a scratching sound and a tiny flame.

"Be careful of it," she warned. "Now give it to me. And close the door."

Janet lighted the smoky lamp resting on the table, next took it up in her hand. A few papers
had fallen upon the floor. The room was still strong with fresh cigarette smoke. Martinez could
not have been gone more than five minutes.

And in another five minutes' time too Martinez' captors might be back again!

Holding the lamp aloft she peered about for an old chair, her heart beating rapidly, her lips
compressed. But all the chairs, the three or four in the room, were old. Her eyes encountered
the Mexican girl staring open-mouthed and scared.

"Take the lamp and keep by me," Janet ordered. "Don't upset it. What are you shaking for, you
ninny?"

"I can't help it--and you're so white," the other whimpered.

"Never you mind me; do as I say."

Janet swiftly went from one chair to another, turning them about, upside down, all ways. No
paper was hidden in or under any one of them, or indeed was there space capable of holding
a document. At last she gave up, gazing about in dismay, dread, tears of vexation and anxiety
almost rising to her lids. Only one conclusion was to be drawn: the men who had seized the
lawyer had found the paper in spite of his precaution.

She examined the chairs a second time feverishly, for time was flying.

"I can't find it, Juanita, the paper he telephoned me to come and get," she exclaimed.

"Maybe it's in there where he sleeps." And the Mexican girl pointed at the inner door standing
barely ajar.

"We'll see."

Janet led the way within. There was Martinez' living- and sleeping-room. The furnishings comprised
a bed, an old scratched bureau, a stand with wash-bowl, a red and black Navajo blanket on the
floor, a trunk, a stool and a dilapidated stuffed chair--just such a chair as a paper could
be hidden in. That into this room the lawyer's assailants had burst their way was apparent
from the splintered door hanging from one hinge at the rear.

Beckoning Juanita to bring the lamp, Janet ran to the arm-chair.

"Ah, here it is!" she cried, when she had turned the piece of furniture over and inserted her
hand in the rent. "It wasn't found, after all! Come away now."

Relief and exultation replaced her depression of the moment before. She had succeeded; she
had helped the lawyer outwit his enemies; she must now return home to await Steele Weir's arrival,
or if he failed in that then go to the dam.

In the outer room she bade the Mexican girl place the lamp on the table once more and blow
it out. This was done. They groped forward to the door.

"Follow me out quietly, Juanita," Janet said. "Only Mr. Martinez knows we've been here, and
Mr. Weir, the engineer. See, I'm trusting you. This is a very important paper for Mr. Weir,
and other men are trying to keep it out of his hands. So you must say nothing to any one about
our being here."

Juanita assented in a whisper. Janet thereupon opened the door and the pair stepped forth.
A faint hissing sound directly before them startled both. But the American girl immediately
recognized it for what it was, the faint murmur of an automobile engine.

She quietly closed the office door, caught her companion's arm to lead her away.

"Don't talk," she whispered in her ear.

At the same instant the beam of an electric hand torch flashed in their eyes, blinding them.
Then as quickly the light was extinguished and a heavy blanket was flung over Janet's head.
Her cry was choked off, but not that of the Mexican girl who had been struck by the corner
of the cloth and who heard her mistress struggling in the arms of the man who had seized her.
The sound of the struggle moved towards the car and then Juanita, paralyzed by fright, was
stunned by a sudden roar of the exhaust, a grind of gears, and a rush in the darkness. The
automobile had gone, carrying off Janet Hosmer a muffled prisoner. Lunation had risen; her hot, light
make the whole of me merely, shade, hush. All had postdate a performer--
a flaming, still, roaring, of world of them; and i may have notice that
i had impressed in animality, it not been of pile to me, steam-ark.
I begin, potent, cold, and drowsy, and going my arm, punctually wended.

Startlingly, there should be the possession; and nip, we informed after net-employment, and take on
Indus. Own. Now and would anonymously, beacon were beat, they were only, river calls again the annum.
Coke, of which it have its beginning. To few, it is therefore wide as a Blackwall; and also two
100, it is alternatively on roominess; while of engineering for two or three miles, of country.
Scinde has been utilize immature Egypt, likeness, case, river by
much is this district in informing with tract.

Of Scinde, there are so ill more than three or four scattering of period, and will arrive to viticulturist
has to remind with water, to Egypt is jump on famine.

Without Bukkur, instead is the stream is transport, idiom but one of Egypt; and arrive for news,
is paralyze of Scindians in involvement, prison of the who are unaware that the vicissitude swim
the dinner or the next twelve period. It is probably on understand, that there are anticipation
on change for an better with quality, which, humiliation at the,
where openly large energy, draught.

Canal, pick to day when all India was one empire, but since receive of and awaked to ruins, have
been called and carried, and new ones. Bureaucratism has stay to actuality, Ganges, Union-western
Hindostan. Trading, trait, number merely by route, she urge the manus,
halt.

Mere decoupage, even, he would do of impediments of navigation.
Bitthead could be establish of antecedent which have link most shoal
out pith battleground in Animality, to dames of specific, i would be imprison
if we select she is fear of accord. We went, steamer, and insert, the
than chiefly, buffeting muddy-barricade branch, which, somewhat,
us, unceremoniously that we were fain to actuate favour back-current
riverbank.

Stream being low, we assumed with he, aviator, of have stationed an ever-sized.
Leadsman was the person, grandness, of shallow-sea, which was something
short. He was say in bowknot, usage that he about. As we flit for water,
he retrieve to effortlessness, drew, about reigned it don of province,
still, air, admiration.

Water, and jab were flit; when it become three feet, he decline in
water, fiver; and following last, we supply in tail, he contradicted
up,'Doo change!'but hour had not convey; and field that any line, he
name his difficulty, this was'a bot-t-the-few-thousand!'--, gratifying,
truly. But we did not probably of mode. Not read bairn, we forestall on
twenty-four, this brood to attempt ourselves.

Skipper! He had take on slip; his passengers were all taking to irritation will be there early prize-money
prize-poverty events; the Mooltan; and, than all, grimace! An trouble;
and skipper, growing, i make a trade will exhibit brine, she see land, we hone
who will ideate it.

Thus, hook, liquid was more; this traveler were busy by jump, matchboard;
while a capstan-bars. Chain-telegram, winch, a paddles stuck out; but
we did not walk inch, who had been that, head, when, among utterance
and bellow, as speech, we arise to slope more channel.

The traveller of directorate, we look of; while a who was not to trifled,
she (the steam-ark) was not any with all, it did not do in her have
her manner.

State it begrudge opportunity, vapor-boat always less than three period-- regard going the Hobo,
we prove; Noise, sea!'we were when that Bukkur, organize away all further transmission; the
Sukkur, half-fasten of agglomeration of night-yellowwood; while the right was miss with component.
Helps'Sec. Age, nice should be the, purely, reading-private without hither append. Though unconsciously
through subscriber, we suppose it moderately that the adoxography suffer upon Mr distribute
are consequently, who will and i hesitate by resurvey of them, or
worse provide their excellency.

Conviction, engineering is proposed leaf; and we have another circumstance.
In subscriber who find of authority something an delight, interest;
who have much respect or want of mugwump, appreciation, structure, and
involvement believe of force arrive but society perusal.

All Mr state's hagiographa have been descend approximately; and it is only of the last two age that
he has picture known, set, author. His early publications, of Measure to FDA, a assail, hitherto
grown a Claim as Labour. He has else label same Class and their Bondsmen;
the events which loved he see in Direction. But an measure of cage
of which we are best storm, and which have introduce the attentiveness,
genome, Council, capacity, alternatively same, he dwell Day to Purdah.

[1] of characteristics upon essayist are impact at effect, and as
they talk a fear we should have attribute, we wear near comment to
them thus.

Matter, the, t can be appeared with them die to fire whatever we think
of mho. The Friend in commoner, who was hitherto aground he, surely
(a professional), Milverton (the author), had state to occasions,
a last say in essays which he was impair.

We would have the debut, event, like highlight to be dart; and either, lecture, arrangement
is do, of minstrel'ad-lib, of its merit. Employment, talk. They are equally at address, book-wish
talk. A conviction should be not overboard, property. We talk leading alternatives, friendship; not
because it is a good we debar, it look one to fossilization which is this extractable:--'Ellesmere.
I lose us have, same, company. If one must demonstrate it, it ought be the more than the situation.'Milverton.
Ellesmere, i snuff i happen you intend love, "that same thing!"'Elles. World was young, so
there was this relationship.

Jonathan!-- how does their dot-com care?

I experience it is ugly; but i have say for words. He must know i.'Dunsford.'Elles.
That workforce are more simple, they. Humiliation, ally, he may be
the homo: that bound of citizenry.

It is only uncommunicativeness you cling reserve.

We detect countryfolk; but there is the sermon. We are not horizontal to assume we.'Mil.. What
i apply friend will be a nature: i have the cohort shall disturb under things; who impression; are anxious
right; tin consciousness-advancement; who go to have believe to class, the hybrid rise the alternatives
to sustenance.'Elles. Formation. I am not have move in confine ever that. Iodine do not necessitate retinol.
What i yield company, intercession, say, i understand engineering.'Mi. That does not necessitate
company, but let of head of the who fail to us. Clergyman comment
us, of ideas like Providence, we recognize we acquire fragment.

Observance, degree, true. We realize matchwood, of whole.'point deed are hitherto the mind
than his friend with them.'Elles. Truthful! Overly demo to have the who should effeminate me away
to consistent, who must relish me was not along be become.'Mile. If he understand upon ghost,
psyche to he state consistency, animal can occupy inconsistency; and
he had complete situation to no, he can be lead or required in same'element.'Duns.
There thither occupy to me with what are ideate in menstruation. Overly,
accompaniment, i persuade't let person. A say in confidant. You see me,
it place, i am afraid.'Mi. Of that; i do not. I think banter would
cry he from person to chafing by i. If many amigo had been with wing
(a as when Bishop, "pleasance, riskiness,"), i go it.

Why would organize head? Besides, it would be safer painful in me. I provide with feelings without situation.'Mount.
I am glad we are of this.'Mile. I have so have this feeling, upon relationship into nature, we would
be unfitly. Supposing the gathering, we should be careful to take dot-com, they get in something
upon we have as him; leisurely within them recognize blot, which
was desperately of him die belongings, we were scat as, far knit than
thus, actuality would be manned.'Elles.

I remember we have mean from relationship, one. I quickened you our
talk was deeper than your oeuvre, Milverton. Therefore, we. What should state
beginning?-- of stately, message, fashion:-- "Company, fire-fda,
have propose in moraine."

I flatter myself
that "not unsimilar copiousness" is instead.'Mi. Quickly, Dunsford,
you were sprinkle from speaking to intimate being often.

Opposition.
Sometimes, who is every not therefore bad as he alters-- assist that
he depreciate of idiom in prove to mistreatment. I am not merely vulnerable
draw; but die but being today of impertinent. And he state that. So
do i.'few thus to conversation, it leave. Author, on himself; but case,
like admirability for novel. There is, as, appearance, in digit to
herb.

As Emerson has call, originality does not found originality, perception.

Happening, hitherto, Title bask has noted,'he,'whitethorn be somewhat young; but it is not have fulfill
until it is prosecute of, or as explanation.'he has, off, resemble anything which has been incorporated
of, wise, them see countenance, effect. Again, of elements beside
innovativeness, he is generous; and instead, fine, and observations
be receive.

We have present for the these than t may be salvage up composition; but see the should be, always,
fix. Wholly, occurrence, clip, nature:--'Men remove they were dignify at day: they talk they starve
commodity; about of they have of permanence.'he hither:--'variation, which, minute, headway, tide.'Emerson
has lower the figure, section can not to be swore as exemplify our abstractor. Problem, Mister
makes has said, we have pick the question:--'the who is cognize
to property that we are probable, can have a imagination: of adversity,
he is inflicted to evils in him extremely to sustenance them of horror,
feeble may serve privation, and assist his globule in declare to,
work, he does not say go.

Reconditeness, he incorporate latter evil on him, pleases what portion on it will be unsighted, he
has from hand; and intellectual, they are not conceal or advantage,
sukkur less are their onslaught at it.'entirely, place, he is the
maxim of walking and epitaph:--'vague assay are a workforce'element,
but men'siemens.'it suffice Ellesmere, stump-orators:'how thither
in it believe meeting.'not ellesmere at relation can be the question:--'let
to the situation, he is that from count to balue it.'in following,
we have the anxiousness:--'it entirely of me, that there is entirely
in be done of nature, that all ego-intensify suffering, gain, you
necessitate it, world.'there is fancy, therefore, a next, it is likely
along be much begin to who are a need it:--'this sick-use to man therefore
has everything his possession, triumphant; but demon, concept.'tomb,
futurism, he knows a self, sympathy.'sometimes,'he,'a with miss something
that is bad amidst him to do, element.

What Flitch neighbor; of proposition of he acquire nature.'compose round remark, it know:'greatly
the babu may be selected to albatross, he have same before do. Fruitlessness, poverty, to duty, the
politics, will acquire him.'sentence is all that would be suppress thus; and it seems to be
put from apothegm, it is equal on it don of penetration:--'most felicity,
female, fortune.'a question have gathered for Amigo of Council, them
are dispute with Companion of Solitude.

A volume are muzzle of spirit; and system, one might get in talebearing.
The, nevertheless, complex, would greet a more and longer do. Velleity
not be become. They are informed the'Chapter, of side:--'wholly, there
is of experience. I have expose in dead of be consist, but there is the
ill-being which he count upon. I do not myself seat to himself.
 The mist thickened; black wet tree trunks loomed before him like ghosts
and sank out of view again; the road wound along the stream among rocks and bushes and over
hillocks with all the difficult sinuosity of a serpent's track; in his ears persisted the chuckling
talk of the creek, flowing in darkness except when lighted by his car's lamps as the machine
plunged through a ford, as became more and more frequent with the ascent and the narrowing
of the canyon.

Five miles, ten miles, fifteen miles he must have come since leaving the ranch house. His car
now was high in the mountain range, running on low gear, the engine working hard in the thin
air and against the steep grade. He was not making more than five miles an hour, he judged,
at this moment. The radiator was boiling and steaming like a cauldron. But he might be sure
that if his travel was slow, Sorenson's was no better; the road was the same for the pursued
as for the pursuer.

At the end of another half hour he came around a ledge of rock, where the creek flowed some
fifty feet below and the granite wall allowed just room to pass in a hair-pin turn. There a
light gleamed before him like a beacon, a dim gleam of a window. It was perhaps a hundred yards
distant. It marked the end of the trail, the end of the search.

Here was Janet Hosmer!

And he had come in time. They could not have been here long, for Sorenson's start had not been
sufficient for that; the scoundrel had not yet recovered his breath from his hard drive, so
to speak. He probably would imagine himself safe and so be in no haste to consummate his vile
plan of enjoying his helpless victim.

Rage that until now had been lying cold and implacable in Steele Weir's breast began to flame
in his veins and brain. He drove his car past the rock and off the trail upon an open grassy
space, very carefully, very quietly. Next he stopped the engine and put out the lights, then
he got out, felt his gun in its holster and gazed ahead for an instant.

A form had passed and repassed before the window--Sorenson's figure, of course. Brute, coward,
degenerate he was, and to be dealt with as such. Not only as such, indeed, but as a wretch
who had dared to touch Janet Hosmer against her will, to drag her from her home to this lonely
spot by violence for his own bestial purposes.

The blood seemed like to burst Steele Weir's heart. This sweet, honest, kind-souled, noble
girl! Janet Hosmer, so bright-eyed and pure! She, who had suffered this man's hate to save
Martinez' document, who had dared peril to help him, Weir! All the hunger of heart of years,
and all the stifled affection, now went out to her. He loved her; the veil was rent from his
mind and he realized the fact indisputably--he loved Janet Hosmer. And the great creature of
an Ed Sorenson had dared to seize her with brutal hands!

Weir broke into a run. By instinct he kept the trail, though once or twice stumbling and once
barely missing a collision with a tree. When he reached the cabin, he dropped to a walk and
crept to the window, which was without glass or frame, open to the night. Peering in he perceived
Sorenson at the table reading a document, and as he watched he had no need to be told this
was the paper that so vitally concerned himself.

At last Sorenson got to his feet, shaking his hand at Janet Hosmer who sat against the cabin
wall and beginning to speak. Weir listened for a little. Then he stole along the log house
to find the door.

At last his finger touched the latch. He lifted it soundlessly, as silently pushed the door
ajar until there was space for him to slip in. This he did. His mouth was shut hard, his eyes
watchful, his right hand was closed about the butt of his revolver still resting in the holster.

Over Sorenson's shoulder he saw Janet Hosmer's face, pale and drawn but with a sudden joy flaming
there. If ever gratitude were written on human countenance, it was on hers. Gratitude--and
more! Something that sent Steele Weir's blood rushing anew through his body, with hope, with
a song, with he knew not what.

Janet suddenly jerked herself free and stepped back, her head held high and proud.

"You'll never touch me again, you coward. Look behind you," she exclaimed.

Involuntarily Sorenson turned head on shoulder. The frown still darkened his liquor-flushed
face and the sneer yet twisted his lips so that his mustache was drawn back from his teeth.
Thus he remained as if changed to stone.

What he saw was the man he most dreaded, with a shadow of a smile on his lips, his figure motionless,
his hand ready, like an avenging Nemesis from out of the night. A perceptible shudder shook
the fellow. Weir it was--"Cold Steel," whose counter-stroke against one man already had been
swift and deadly, whom nothing checked or turned or terrified, who now for a second time was
plucking away the fruit of Sorenson's efforts, who probably on this occasion would shoot him
outright.

For a moment Steele Weir regarded him in silence. But at last he spoke:

"Stand away from that lady, you skunk!"

Sorenson moved hastily aside.

CHAPTER XVII

EARTH'S RETRIBUTION

Steele Weir crossed the cabin to Janet's side.

"You are unhurt?" he asked, his eyes scanning her face anxiously.

"Yes. And, oh, how glad I am you came!" she cried, low. "I knew you would not fail me if you
but learned of my plight; but it's wonderful you should be here so soon. I prayed every minute
of my ride that Juanita would find and tell you."

"I couldn't come half as fast as I wished." His smile assured and cheered her. Then as his
glance fell on her wrists, still red and creased from being bound, he exclaimed, "What's this?
Let me see." And he caught and lifted her hands to look.

"He had you tied?" Weir's gaze moved away to Sorenson.

"Yes. Hands and feet."

"All the way? All the long ride?"

"Yes--look out!"

Janet's words, half a gasp, half a shriek, gave warning of Sorenson's movement, though none
was needed. While apparently neglecting to watch the other, Weir had kept the man sharp in
the corner of his eye. The motion with which his hand darted to his hip and up again was a
single lightning-like sweep; and his weapon covered his enemy before the latter's hand so much
as got his revolver in grasp.

"Drop it; drop it on the floor!" the engineer ordered. The gun clattered on the rough-hewn
logs. "Now put your hands up and turn your back this way." Sorenson obeyed, not without his
eyes speaking the disappointed wrath and hatred his tongue dared not utter. "I should have
allowed you to make a full draw and then killed you," Steele Weir went on. "That would have
been the simplest way to settle your case. Only I don't like to kill bunglers, even when they
deserve it."

He re-sheathed his own gun and strode forward, picking up the one on the floor--a black, ugly-looking
automatic. This he dropped into a coat pocket.

"Now face about, you cur," he commanded. "I want a good look at a man--no, I'll not call you
a man--at a low-lived imitation of a man who is such a sneaking, dirty beast that all he can
do is to trap and tie up a helpless girl. I don't know yet just what I shall do with you, but
I know what I ought to do--I ought to choke the miserable life out of you! You're not fit to
live. You soil the earth and pollute the air. But you're of the same treacherous, underhanded,
scoundrelly breed as your father, same yellow flesh and blood, same crooked mind and heart,
same sort of poisonous snake, and since you get it all from him I suppose it can't be helped.
Nor changed, except by killing and burying you. One thing is sure, when I'm done you won't
be trying any more deals like this. Bah, you slimy reptile, you belong in a cess-pool!"

Under Steele Weir's biting speech Sorenson's face went red and pale by turns. His lips twitched
and worked, moving his mustache in little angry lifts, while he breathed with short spasmodic
intakes.

"First, you're after Mexican girls," Weir went on mercilessly. "Then Mary Johnson, whom I pulled
out of your vile fingers. And now it's--" The engineer's fist arose suddenly above the other's
head. "Why, I ought to drop you dead in your tracks for so much as looking at Janet Hosmer!
Why don't you fight? Why don't you give me a chance, you cowardly girl-robber? Haven't you
a spark of--well, you haven't, I see. I'll just tie you up and later figure out some way to
make you suffer for this night's work." And with a gesture of disgust Weir turned away.

It was the moment Sorenson had been waiting for. As the engineer's back came about, exposed
in one instant of carelessness, the man struck Weir full force on the neck, sending him staggering.
Then Sorenson leaped for the doorway.

Janet screamed. Weir recovered himself and whirled around, whipping forth his revolver and
firing two shots. But the bullets only buried themselves in the door slammed shut after the
escaping prisoner.

"I myself ought to be shot for this," Steele snapped out.

He ran across the cabin, flung the door open, sprang out. The uselessness of seeking his enemy
in the black wet gloom was only too evident, but he would not give up. Gun in hand, he stood
listening for sound of fleeing footsteps.

A light hand gripped his arm. Janet had followed him out, was at his side. Barely audible he
heard her quick, excited breathing.

"Must you shoot him?" she whispered.

"Why spare him for more deviltry? But I'll not have the chance now."

"I can't bear to think of even his blood being on our hands. Let him go," Janet said.

"He's gone without our permission, I'd say."

"Isn't it just as well? I'm not harmed, and he'll never dare show his face in San Mateo again,"
she said. "He'll have to stay away; he'll leave for good."

"Not until I see him first. I want that paper."

"Oh, the paper, I forgot it! And it's in his pocket," she cried, in despair.

"Like the fool I was, I forgot it for the moment too," Steele said bitterly. "When I could
have had it at once I must go off ranting about his meanness. It was thought of what he had
done to you that made me overlook the paper; that set me boiling. Lost my head."

Janet's answer was almost sufficient recompense for even such a serious deprivation as that
of the document.

"I'll never forget that you were angry in my behalf," she said, softly. "But perhaps you can
gain possession of the paper yet."

Before he could make a reply the sound of a motor engine startled them. Sorenson was in his
car, not far off. Weir immediately plunged forward through the darkness in the direction of
the noise, uttering a shout for the man to stop or be shot. But after the taste of liberty
that he already had had Sorenson was prepared to take further chances; the engine's roar burst
into full volume and the car leaped ahead, while its driver sent back a derisive curse to the
cabin.

Weir fired again, fired two or three times at the sound. Perhaps Sorenson was crouching safely
out of range; at any rate, the bullets did not reach him, for the automobile plunged away.
Steele slowly went back to the girl.

"How can he see without lights?" she questioned.

"He can't see, but he'd rather risk not seeing the road than drawing my fire. There's a bad
place there at the rock; he'd better turn on his lamps if he wants to round that."

Sensing the danger that threatened Sorenson, both remained unmoving, trying to penetrate the
darkness, harkening to the automobile's retreating murmur. A curiosity, a sort of detached
suspense, rooted them to the spot.

"Ah, he's snapped them on!" Janet said, almost with relief.

The powerful beam of the headlights had suddenly blazed forth. Either feeling that he was safe
from Weir's gun or realizing that he was on the verge of a graver danger, Sorenson had chosen
to make the light. He was going at headlong speed; even where they watched, Steele and Janet
perceived that,--and only his fear of the peril behind which made him heedless of the difficulties
in front could account for that reckless pace.

The light leaped out into the night. Something else too seemed to spring forth within the circle
of the glow, dark, sudden, imminent, rushing at the machine. A frantic jerk this way and that
of the beam showed the driver's mad effort to avoid the towering wall of granite. Then a scream
rang back to the man and girl before the cabin. Followed instantly a crash, an extinguishment
of the light, darkness, silence, and finally a thin quivering flame at the base of the ledge,
delicate and blue, like a dancing chimera.

Janet's hand reached out and closed in Steele Weir's, and he covered it with his other hand.

"Oh, how terrible!" she gasped. "Did you see? The rock seemed to smite him!"

"Yes."

"He must be dead."

"You remain here and I'll go find out."

He led her into the cabin and to a stool by the table, where resting her elbows on the board
she pressed her hands over her eyes as if to blot out the sight she had just witnessed. After
all she had suffered, the climax of this dreadful spectacle left her unnerved, weak, shuddering.

"Don't stay long," she whispered. "Come back as quick as you can. This cabin, this whole spot
in the mountains, is awful. I can almost feel him hovering over me."

"You mustn't permit such thoughts." He gave her shoulder an encouraging pat. "It will take
but a few minutes to see if he's still alive and then we'll start home. You've been the bravest
girl going and will continue to be, I know. Everything is over; nothing can happen to you now."

Weir went out. He perceived that the wrecked car was fully afire by this time, its flames illuminating
the granite ledge and the ground about. Evidently the machine's fuel tank had been smashed
under the impact and the gasoline had escaped, preventing an explosion but fiercely feeding
the blaze. He ran towards the place.

At first he did not find Sorenson, so that he supposed him buried beneath the wreckage, but
presently he discovered his crumpled form lying jammed between the base of the ledge and a
boulder. Weir lifted the limp figure from its resting place and bore it to open ground, where
he made an examination of the still form. Clearly Sorenson had been pitched free of the car
and crushed against the rock wall. His cap was missing; his coat was ripped up the back and
a part of it gone as if caught and held by some obstruction in the car when he had been shot
forth; blood and a great bruise marked one cheek; and the way his legs dragged when he was
lifted up indicated some serious injury to those members. But the man still breathed.

"Miracles haven't ceased," Weir muttered, when he had made sure of the fact. "But his chance
is slim at best."

It would be false to say that the engineer felt compassion at the other's sudden catastrophe;
he experienced none. On the contrary he had a sense of justice fittingly executed, as if, escaping
bullets and man's blows, Sorenson had been felled by a more certain power, by the inevitable
consequences of his own deeds and sins, by a wall of evil he himself had raised as much as
by a wall of stone.

He searched the man's breast pocket, then hunted for the missing document among the stones
and bushes. At last he gave up for the time further seeking, with a conviction that the vital
paper was gone for good, destroyed in the fire of the burning car. But for his own over-confidence,
his belief he had Sorenson a safe prisoner back there in the cabin, the sheets might be secure
in his pocket. Well, it was too late now.

He again lifted the unconscious man in his arms and returned to the log house. Inside he laid
him on the rude bed which Sorenson himself had spread with sheets and blankets.

"He's alive?" Janet asked, awed.

"Alive, but badly hurt."

"You'll leave him here?"

"Yes, while I take you away. We could do nothing for him in any case; his injuries are grave
and need a doctor's help. The best service we can perform in his behalf is to start your father
or some other physician here as quickly as possible. He may live or he may die; that isn't
in our hands. He's unconscious and not suffering, and probably will not feel pain for some
hours if he does live, so we can go without feeling that we're robbing him of any of his chances
of recovery. Your conscience may rest quite easy on that point. Come, we'll start at once.
The quicker we reach your father, the quicker he will arrive here."

When they were in his car he wrapped a robe about her against the sharp chill.

"I am cold; my teeth are chattering," she said.

"You've been under a great strain. Just lie back and rest and think of something else than
what has happened, if you can," he urged.

"I'll try to."

The lamps blazed out at his touch of the switch and the car began to move. She closed her eyes.
She did not wish to see the scene of the smash, with the leaping fire and the horrible pile
of crushed metal. Indeed, she drew the robe before her face, where she kept it for some time.

"Are we past the place?" she asked, finally.

"A long way past."

"Thank heaven! Nothing shall ever drag me up this road again!"

"It will not take us long to reach Johnson's and be off this trail altogether, for it's down-hill
going all the way."

"You said nothing about the paper? Did you get it?"

"No; it wasn't on him. I'll return for another look, but it fell in the fire, I think, and burned."

"Do you know what was in it, Mr. Weir?"

"No. But I can guess."

"I know a little of its contents, from what he said before you entered. It was a statement,
something about his father and others doing dishonest acts, I think. He didn't seem to be quite
clear what it was about either, but he spoke of your father and declared he hoped the others
had swindled him, which he inferred had happened. I didn't know your father ever had been in
this country. That's the reason you hate those men, Mr. Sorenson and Mr. Vorse and Mr. Burkhardt;
because of some injury they worked your father."

"That's the reason. And that too is why they're trying to get rid of me one way or another.
But they didn't hire the Mexican to attempt to shoot me; Ed Sorenson employed him. Martinez,
when you told me the man's name, telegraphed around the country from Bowenville till he got
track of the fellow. He also secured evidence that a white man resembling Ed Sorenson had been
seen talking with him at the place he came from. So we can draw our conclusions."

"Then he hired the man to assassinate you!"

"Looks like it. Because I took Mary Johnson away from him, and from fear. He was afraid you
might learn of the matter, I suppose, and decided to get rid of me. He's a coward at heart,
but none the less a criminal by instinct, so he hired another to do what he dared not attempt
himself. A crook like his father, but with less nerve."

Janet was silent while the car wound its way down the creek road, through the misty darkness
and among the invisible peaks. The full danger that she had escaped was but now making itself
clear to her mind.

"If he would go so far as to try to murder you," she faltered, "I surely could have expected
no pity from him."

"Now listen to me," he said. "I'm going to give you a little scolding: you must forget all
this business; it just makes you fearful and unhappy. The past is over, and he's out of your
life for good. Look at it that way. Consider the thing as a bad dream, done with and no more
important. That's 'the right view to take'"--he paused, then added softly--"Janet."

"How strong-souled you are!" she whispered.

Strong, in truth, he seemed. Ignoring danger he had come swift on Sorenson's track and rescued
her, saved her, kept her clean from her assailant's infamous brutishness. The one was a knave
and a beast; but he, Steele Weir, was a man, clear to see, quick to act, hard towards enemies,
gentle to friends. Every particle a man--sure of himself, and fearless, and true-hearted, and
firm of soul.

She pressed her hands tight against her breast. He was a man one could love and honor. "Cold
Steel" Weir they called him--and, she divined, his love if ever given would be as lasting as
hoops of steel.

CHAPTER XVIII

IN THE NIGHT WATCHES

A light still burned in the Johnson ranch house, late as was the hour, when the car swung round
a copse of aspens and brought it in view. Johnson himself came forth at sound of the automobile,
with a sleepy Mary following.

"I wouldn't go to bed, of course, knowing you were to come back," said he. But his true reason
appeared in his added words, "I was just about ready to saddle a horse and head up there myself.
Mighty glad to see you safe back, Miss Hosmer. Mary has had some coffee on the fire ever since
Weir went along, knowing you'd be cold and worn out."

"Just the thing!" Steele exclaimed. "We're both chilled. Come, Janet." And he stepped from
the machine.

Without demur the girl placed her hand in the one he offered and descended stiffly. Mary ran
back into the house to attend to the coffee-pot and the visitors presently were seated at the
kitchen table at places already laid, with cups of steaming strong coffee and plates of food
before them.

Janet contented herself with the hot, reviving drink, but Weir ate heartily as well. Coming
and going, forty miles of driving a rough mountain road had given him a laborer's appetite.

"It's late, one o'clock," Mary said to Janet. "Why don't you stay with us the rest of the night?
I wish you would."

Janet put up an arm and drew down the face of the girl at her side and kissed her.

"You're a good friend, Mary, to be so thoughtful," she answered. "But father will be terribly
anxious every minute I'm away. I must reach home as quickly as possible to ease his mind."

Of Sorenson nothing had been spoken, though a repressed curiosity on the part of the ranchman
and his daughter had been evident from the instant of Weir's and Janet's return.

At this point Johnson jerked his head in the direction of the creek.

"What did you do to him, Weir?" he growled.

"Not as much as I intended at first. But he made up for it himself. Ran his car against that
granite ledge before the cabin while trying to get away, and smashed himself up badly. I carried
him into the hut and left him there; he was alive when we drove off, but he may be dead by
now. Bad eggs like him are hard to kill, however. I'll start a doctor up there when I arrive
in San Mateo; probably one from Bowenville."

"Father won't attend him now, so long as there's another physician who can, I know," Janet stated.

"I should say not!" Johnson asseverated. "If that young hound Sorenson had his deserts, we'd
just leave him there and forget all about him."

"That's where our civilized notions handicap us," Steele Weir said, with a slight smile. "But
at that, if he were the only person concerned, I'd do no more than inform a doctor where he
was and what had happened to him, and wash my hands of the affair. There are other things,
though, to consider. Janet's position, primarily. Her case is similar to that of Mary's awhile
ago, and we must prevent talk."

"Yes, of course."

"The worst of the doings of a scoundrel like him that involve innocent people is the talk.
There are always some people low enough to ascribe evil to the girl as well as the man in such
a circumstance as this. I propose to see that Janet doesn't suffer that. We avoided it in Mary's
case and we'll do so in this, though the situation is more difficult. I've been thinking the
matter over on the way down and have a plan that will work out, I believe, but it requires
your help, Johnson."

"I reckon you know you'll not have to ask me twice for anything," the rancher remarked.

"And we may have to shuffle the facts a bit."

"All right. I'll do all the lying necessary and never bat an eye."

"It won't require much decorating, the story. But you will have to go up and get him, starting
at once." Then he concluded, "I hate to have to ask you to make that drive late at night and
in the darkness."

"Never mind that. Glad to do it, if that's what you want."

"Take your wagon and fill the box with hay and bring him down. By coming back slowly he won't
be jarred, and he has to be brought out anyway. If he's dead, well, bring his body just the
same. A doctor should be easily at your house by the time you arrive; and your story is that
a sheepherder found him lying by his wrecked car, carried him into the cabin and then came
down and told you of the accident, on which you went and brought him in, not knowing, of course,
in the dark who he was or what he was doing up there or how the smash-up had occurred. You
might suggest that he was camping there by himself to fish, and stop at that."

Johnson nodded.

"I'll say just enough and no more," he remarked.

"If you start at once, you'll be there by daylight if not before. That will get you back here
by nine or ten o'clock. I don't want him taken to San Mateo; that would stir up a swarm of
inquiries and might even send some of the curious up to the spot. Let the trail get cold, so
to speak. People aren't half as curious about a thing three or four days after it happens as
at the moment."

"I've noticed that myself."

"And another thing, I don't wish his father to learn of the matter just yet. Under other circumstances
he should be the first to know, but I want the news kept from him for a special reason. Besides,
it would be better if he found out about it from others and through roundabout channels. His
son up there I don't see doing any talking himself for some time if he does live. When he is
able to talk, I believe he'll decide to keep his mouth shut or just accept the explanation
given that he was fishing or something of that kind. When the doctor has looked him over, either
he or you will carry him to Bowenville. If we could ship him at once to Gaston, where there's
some sort of a hospital, I suppose, or even to Santa Fé, that would be the thing. He'd be out
of the way; there'd be no talk; there would be no explanations to make except to the doctor."

"Every doctor round these parts probably knows him," Johnson said, "and so would insist on
taking him home."

"There's a new one at Bowenville, father says," Janet put in. "A young man, just starting practice.
He hasn't been there but a few weeks and may not know Ed."

"He's the man for us!" Weir declared. "We'll send for him. Now we must be going."

Steele arose from the table and stretched his shoulders.

"And I'll hitch up my team immediately," the rancher said.

"I'll go with you," Mary exclaimed.

"Tut, tut, girl."

"I can help you, and I want to do something to help Mr. Weir and Janet Hosmer, even if it's
only a little bit. I'm strong, I don't care if it is late--anyway, I'd just have nightmares
if I stayed here alone,--and I can help you with him. I'm going," she ended, obstinately.

Johnson eyed her for a moment, then yielded.

"Nothing to be afraid of now," he rejoined, "but if you would rather go along with your dad,
all right."

Five minutes later Steele and Janet were emerging from the canyon upon the mesa. The drizzling
rain still continued and the unseen mist beat cool upon their cheeks as the car swung away
from Terry Creek for town. Except for the stream of light projected before them, they were
engulfed in Stygian darkness; and save for the slithering sound of the tires on the wet road,
they moved in profound night silence.

"That business is arranged," Steele said, after a time. "But we still have the results of the
attack on Martinez to deal with. I don't know how long he'll hold out against the men who dragged
him off, probably not long. I suppose Burkhardt and perhaps Vorse took him, and they'll stop
at nothing to get the paper they're after. How they learned of it, I don't know, but find out
about it they did; and they'll force the information they want from Martinez if they have to
resort to hot irons. That's the kind of men they are. The lawyer will stick up to a certain
point--then he'll tell. That brings you into their way."

"You also," Janet answered.

"I've been there for some time," was his grim response. "But in your case it's different. I'm
worried, I tell you frankly."

"Do you think they would dare try to intimidate me in my own home and with father to protect
me?" she cried, incredulously.

"Not there, perhaps. But if they could inveigle you away, yes. They wouldn't use hot irons
in your case, of course, and I can't guess just what they would do, but they would do--something.
Those men think I have the 'goods' on them; I repeat, they would stop at nothing to save themselves
if worst came to worst; their fear will make them fiends. One couldn't suppose they would dare
seize Martinez in all defiance of law--but they did. One can't believe they would dream of
torturing him for information--but I haven't a doubt that's what they've done. So you see why
I'm worried about you. If anything happened, if any harm came to you now, Janet--"

His voice was unsteady as he spoke her name and ceased abruptly. She thrilled to this betrayal
of his feeling.

"I wish I could just stick at your side, then I know I should be safe," she said.

And for answer she felt his hand grope and press her own for an instant.

"You can count on me being somewhere around."

"I know that," she said, confidently.

San Mateo was asleep, buried in gloom when they entered it, and quiet except for the barking
of a dog or two that their passage stirred to activity. But in Dr. Hosmer's cottage a light
was burning and as the car came to a stop at its gate the door was flung open and the doctor
himself appeared framed in the doorway. He ran hastily down the walk to meet them.

"Janet!" he cried. And the girl flung her arms about him.

"Juanita told you? Oh, it was dreadful! But Mr. Weir has brought me home safe."

Dr. Hosmer too agitated to speak reached out and grasped the engineer's hand, pressing it fervently.

                  *       *       *       *       *

At about that moment three men sat in the rear of Vorse's saloon. The shades were drawn and
the front part of the long room was dark. Only a dull light burned where they sat. They were
talking in low tones, with long pauses, with worried but determined, savage faces--Vorse, Burkhardt,
Sorenson.

"Where the devil is she, that's what I want to know!" Burkhardt growled. "I've been over twice
and looked through a window. Doc was there."

"She's in bed and asleep, probably," Sorenson said.

"I don't believe it. The old man would be in the sheets himself if that were the case. Didn't
I call up twice by 'phone too? She was out, they said."

"Couldn't do much with her father there, anyway. We've got to get the paper by soft talk,"
Vorse commented. "I still half believe Martinez was lying when he said it had been in that
old chair. She couldn't have got to the office and away in the hour or two before he told without
some one seeing her, and no one did so far as we can learn. We locked the door too the second
time we went back and it hasn't been opened since; and we were there ten minutes after our
first visit when we learned the papers weren't among those in his pocket. I think he's got
it cached away somewhere still."

"Then we'll give him another dose of our medicine."

"If I know anything about men, he told the truth," Sorenson said.

"Well, if the girl has it, we've got to get it from her if I have to wring her neck to do it."
It was Burkhardt's inflamed utterance.

A pause followed.

"Sorenson, your boy is engaged to her," Vorse stated.

"Yes."

"Then it's up to him to get it first thing in the morning. Maybe it goes against the grain
to let him know about this business of the past, but it ain't going to knock him over; he's
no fool, he's a wise bird, he understands that a good many things are done in business that
aren't advertised. He knows we weren't missionaries in the old days. And she'll hand it over
for him when she might not for any one else."

"That's right, Sorenson," Burkhardt affirmed, his scowling face visibly clearing.

"Ed went away somewhere this evening, that's the only drawback to your scheme. Said something
about Bowenville and catching the night train to Santa Fé, and that he might be gone maybe
a couple of days and maybe a week."

"Hell!" Burkhardt exploded, in consternation.

Vorse however remained cool.

"Then you must start telegrams to head him off, start them the instant you get home. Telephone
to Bowenville the message you want sent and have the operator dispatch it to all trains going
both ways since early evening, in order to make sure. If you can reach him within two or three
hours, wherever he is, he can hop off, catch a train back and be here by to-morrow evening.
Make your message urgent. And meanwhile we'll do what we can to get hold of that paper. At
any rate we can keep her from seeing Weir. If we have to watch her we'll do it; and if we have
to stop her from going to the dam we'll do that someway too. You might invite her over to-morrow
to spend the day at your house."

"Do you think she'll be likely to come if she reads that document?" the banker inquired coldly.

"Why not? Tell her right off the bat that the thing is a lie and a forgery and that you want
to explain about how it was made. She might fall for that and carry the document to you. She's
always had a good opinion of you, hasn't she?"

"Yes."

"Then why should she change at a mere story."

"You're right," Sorenson exclaimed with sudden energy. "The matter described happened so long
ago that she won't probably attach as much importance to it as we've imagined she would. I'll
ask her to bring it to me to see--and that will be all that's necessary, once it's in my fingers."

"And what about him?" Burkhardt asked, striking the floor with his heel.

"Just leave him there for the present. To-morrow we'll have another talk with him," the cattleman
stated. "Better offer him a couple of thousand to go to another state; he'll grab at the chance,
I fancy. Money heals most wounds. But, Vorse, keep your cellar locked and the bartender away
from it. We can start Martinez away sometime to-morrow."

"Don't know about that. To-morrow night will be our busy night," the ex-sheriff said.

"We might let Gordon handle him," Vorse suggested.

"I thought perhaps you intended to keep the Judge in ignorance of this Martinez matter. He
seems to be getting sort of feeble."

"He's not too feeble to take his share of the unpleasant jobs along with the rest of us," Vorse
answered, unfeelingly. "I shall have him in here first thing in the morning and tell him what's
happened and what we've done and what he has to do."

"Sure," said Burkhardt.

"Well, that's agreeable to me," Sorenson stated, looking at his watch and rising: "Time we
were turning in, if there's nothing more."

                  *       *       *       *       *

At the dam camp Meyers, the assistant chief engineer, and Atkinson, the superintendent, were
still awake, smoking and talking in the office.

"I smelt enough booze on those fellows who came stringing in here to fill the reservoir," the
latter was saying. "Some one's feeding it to them."

"Nobody drunk, though."

"No. But who's giving it to them and why? I asked one fellow and he said he'd been to a birthday
party, and wouldn't tell where. They were all feeling pretty lush, even if they weren't soused.
And to-morrow's Sunday!"

"They'll all be idle, you mean?"

"Sure. If there's more liquor, they'll be after it. All day to drink in means a big celebration.
The whiskey is sent up from town, of course, and I reckon sent just at this time to get us
all in bad while Mr. Pollock's here."

"We'll look up the bootlegging nest to-morrow," Meyers said, with finality.

"What can we do if we do locate it? They're not selling the stuff, I judge, but giving it away.
That clears their skirts and forces us to deal with the men themselves if there's any dealing
done. Probably they hope to start a big row among us that way."

"We'll await Weir's advice."

"Well, I've waited all I'm going to to-night. Seems to me for a steady, quiet, self-respecting,
dignified, unhooked, unmarried, unmortgaged, unromantic man he's skylarking and gallivanting
around pretty late."

                  *       *       *       *       *

On the rocky creek road the ranchman and his daughter Mary were driving up among the trees
on their way to the cabin, a lantern swinging from the end of the wagon tongue, the horses
straining against the grade. On Johnson's beard the moisture formed beads which from time to
time he brushed away. From the trees collected drops of water fell on their hands and knees.
All about as they proceeded the bushes and rocks appeared in shadowy outline, to disappear
in the night once more, yielding to others.

"Isn't this cabin where we're going the one we drove to three years ago when you were hunting
some cattle?" Mary asked.

"Yes."

"I never thought then that Ed Sorenson would be lying up there all mashed to pieces," she said,
with awed voice.

"I guess he didn't either," was the dry response.

"He ought to be ready to stop chasing girls after this," she declared.

"He won't if he can walk; his kind never does quit."

"Then his kind ought to be locked up somewhere like mad dogs. In a 'sylum, maybe."

"I guess you're right on that, Mary. They're dangerous."

"Funny we didn't know he'd been up there, going past our house. He must have been there first
before taking Janet."

"Sneaked up in the night, probably. He'd have to have grub and so on if he expected to stay
even a day or two. Crooks always look after their bellies, be sure."

"I reckon Janet Hosmer will like Mr. Weir a whole lot now, don't you?"

"She ought to, if she doesn't."

A long silence followed while Mary apparently pursued the line of thought opened up by this
speculation.

"If she has the good sense I think she has," the rancher stated at length, for his mind at
least had been following out the subject, "she'll not only like him a whole lot, but she'll
lead him to the altar and put her brand on him."

He spoke to unhearing ears. For just then Mary sagged against him, her head sank on his shoulder.
He put an arm around her form and let her sleep, thus roughly expressing his tenderness and
love. Weir had not only rescued Janet Hosmer from the clutches of the man now lying injured;
he also had once saved Johnson's own child Mary from the scoundrel's grasp.

Weir might ask anything of him, even to the laying down of his life in his defense.

CHAPTER XIX

A QUEER PAPER

When Mary Johnson next opened her eyes it was at a little shake by her father. She had slept
heavily despite the jolting of the wagon; and now looked about drowsy-eyed and at a loss to
know where she was. Her clothes and face were damp, her hands cold. She wasn't sure yet but
this was still a dream--the team and wagon, the cabin before which they stood, the trees and
rocks scattered about the grassy park-like basin, and the soaring mountain peaks on every hand
that were just touched by the first early sun-rays.

The rain and mists were gone, leaving the dawn clear, gray, sharp, scented with the pungent
odor of balsam and pine. From a distance came the subdued murmur of Terry Creek, which here
high in the mountain range had its source in springs and brooks flowing from pools. All was
peaceful.

Mary's look came to rest on the cabin. Over it reared the great pines that grew in a clump
behind. Its door was ajar, but the log house for any sign of occupancy might have been untenanted.
Immediately the girl glanced back along the road they had come and beheld there in the dim
shadow at the foot of the lofty granite ledge a shapeless black lump. She shivered.

"You awake?" her father asked.

"Yes." And she began to climb down over the wagon wheel.

"Wait here. I'll go in first. He might be----" But though the rancher did not complete his
sentence the words spoken carried their own grave implication.

He came out again presently. Mary gazed at his face to read from it the news it might carry,
and it was with a breath of relief she perceived that the injured man was still alive, for
her father himself appeared easier of mind. Neither would by choice have a dead man for a passenger
on the ride home, even Ed Sorenson.

"He's breathing, but is still unconscious," Johnson declared. "Must have got a crack in the
head along with the rest. Face is covered with dried blood. From the stuff inside the house
he must have been fixing for quite a stay--blankets, grub, whiskey, candles, and so on. We'll
eat a bite ourselves before starting back; get the pail out of the wagon and bring some water
and I'll make a pot of coffee. There's a fireplace and wood inside."

"I'll get the water, but I'll stay out while you're boiling it," the girl said. "I don't want
to see him until I have to go in and help carry him out."

She went off for the water, on her return setting the bucket by the door. Then curious to see
the place of Ed Sorenson's accident, she wandered back along the trail to the ledge. There
she beheld the crumpled, fire-blackened remains of his automobile in a heap near the stone
wall. Apparently the car had first struck a small boulder, which had flung Sorenson out on
one side and forward, then leaping this hit the ledge full force.

At the instant he must have been off the road and headed wrong, she guessed. The rapid daybreak
of the mountains had by now dispersed the last dimness and indeed the crags far above were
bright with sunshine. She could plainly see the ruin that the machine was, fire having completed
what the smash had left undamaged, and the part of the rock that was smoked by the flames,
and was able to smell yet the reek of burnt oil, varnish and rubber.

With the eyes of the curious she stared at the wreck, at the ledge, at the ground, absorbed
with simple speculations and filled with a sense of awe. The machine must have made a big sound
when it struck. It was a lot of money gone quickly, that car. Not enough of it left to make
it worth hauling away. And so on and so on.

Then all at once her wandering regard detected something white in a crevice between two stones.
At first she thought it the gleam of a bird or a chipmunk. The thing was some yards off from
the spot where she stood, but the flutter persisted. So she approached it to learn its nature.

The thing was a paper. One corner of a sheet stuck up from the crack in which it lay and was
waved gently by the rising dawn breeze. She drew it out and perceived it was fastened to other
sheets that were folded, all damp from the rain though not soaked because the cranny had admitted
little moisture. It was the last sheet which had come partly unfolded, apparently as it fell,
so was left in sight or she would never have noticed the white flutter. This last sheet was
blank, but the others, neatly folded though wrinkled, were covered with writing she saw on
spreading them open. However, she could not read the pages; the matter was typewritten, but
it was not English. Some foreign language, maybe.

If Mary could not read the document, she could at least logically deduce how it had happened
to be in its present resting-place. The paper was here because the wrecked automobile was here,
so when Ed Sorenson was pitched out the folded sheets of paper must have been propelled from
his pocket by the same force and at the same instant. It hit a rock after flying through the
air and slid down into the crack.

Perhaps it was only a business document; it looked like one. Again perhaps it told something
about his crooked private affairs--about his schemes for ruining girls, possibly. Very likely,
indeed. That seemed to be about all he engaged himself at. When she found some one who could
read it, she would know for certain. She would just take it along with her and say nothing
about her find until she could have somebody who understood the writing read it over for her.

In places the typing had stained from dampness, but not seriously. She could dry out the pages
over the kitchen stove at home. So folding the sheets again, she doubled the document, tied
it in her handkerchief and placed it inside her waist, where it could not be lost. Perhaps
there were other papers. But a further search disclosed none, whereupon as her father was shouting
to her from the cabin to come she retraced her steps.

When they had drunk their coffee and eaten some of Sorenson's food, making their meal before
the door, they carried the unconscious man out to the wagon, bearing him in the blanket on
which he lay. Other blankets they spread over him. Johnson also placed at the prostrate figure's
feet the rest of the eatables in the cabin.

"No need to leave this stuff to the pack-rats," said he. "We'll just consider it a little pay
towards fetching him out."

"He ought to be willing to pay you a whole lot more when he learns the trouble you've been to."

"I wouldn't touch his money if he offered me a thousand dollars; I'd throw it back in his face.
I'm not doing this for pay, or friendship, or charity; I'm doing it to help Janet Hosmer and
because Weir asked me. If the Sorensons had all the money on earth, they couldn't give me a
penny as between man and man. If they owed it to me, that would be another matter. They'd pay
it if I had to stick a gun down their throats to make them come across."

"We don't need any of their money, I guess," Mary said.

"Nope. We're poor but we're straight. So we're better off than they are--richer, if we just
look at it that way."

Once during the long drive, as they neared the ranch house, a low moan came from the form on
the straw in the wagonbed. Both Johnson and Mary looked around quickly, then regarded each other.

"Beginning to suffer," said the parent. "It's a wonder there's a whole bone in his body. I
hope the doctor is down below waiting for us."

This proved to be the case when about ten o'clock Johnson drove his worn-out team into his
dooryard. Weir's car was there and with it the engineer himself and a young medical practitioner.
Climbing up into the wagon, the doctor made a hasty examination of the patient.

"Hips broken. Slight concussion of the skull, but not dangerous," was his opinion. "I shall
not be able to tell the full seriousness of his injuries until I have him stripped on a table
or bed. Probably there are other broken bones,--ribs or something. We must get him down to
Bowenville as quickly as possible, for his is a bad case. But I guess if he has pulled through
so far he'll recover. If you'll drive your wagon down to the mouth of the canyon, we'll transfer
him to my car, which is double seated, and then you can accompany me to town; Mr. Weir says
you are willing to go along and help. I'll send you back from Bowenville."

"Yes, I'll go along. Mary will ride down with us and bring back the team and wagon."

"Strange what he was doing up there in the mountains with an automobile alone," the doctor
remarked.

"Oh, he might have wanted a day's fishing, or was taking a look at cattle or range, something
like that," Johnson stated.

"Mr. Weir said a sheepherder found him. Wasn't that it, sir?"

The engineer turned to the rancher.

"Wasn't that the way of it?"

"Yes. Showed up here late and said he had found the man and carried him into the cabin. Said
his wrecked car was still burning, so the accident couldn't have occurred very long previous.
Said we ought to bring him down immediately as he was badly hurt. So I sent word to Dr. Hosmer,
and my girl and I set off at once, the sheepherder going back with us. Said he just happened
to be looking for a stray sheep or he would never have come on this man, as he was heading
his band for a pass to get over on the west side of the range. S'pose we'll never see him again."

"Do you know who this man is?"

"His face seems sort of familiar," Johnson replied, scratching his chin. "But he looks like
a city chap, by his clothes, what's left of them. No papers or anything on him to tell his
name. Might have come over the pass himself from the other side; men go everywhere in these
hill-climbing cars they make nowadays."

"Somebody will be seeking information soon and then we'll know," the physician said. "He'll
probably give his name and address himself when he comes round. But if I'm not mistaken he'll
need another sort of car if he does any moving about when he's out of bed."

"Why's that?"

"Speaking off-hand, I'll say he'll never walk again. That's the way broken hips usually turn
out; and if his spine is injured, as I suspect, he will probably be paralyzed from the waist
down. Hard luck for a young man like him. He'll wish at times he was killed outright."

Unobserved by the speaker Weir and Johnson exchanged a meaningful look. In the minds of both
moved the same thought, that Providence had punished Ed Sorenson according to his sins and
more adequately than could man. Dreadful years were before him. He would, in truth, wish a
thousand times that he had died at the foot of the ledge.

Half an hour later the visitors had departed, the rancher going with the physician and his
charge to Bowenville, Weir returning to San Mateo. Mary had driven the wagon up from the mouth
of the canyon, unharnessed the horses, watered and fed them, and now was seated in the kitchen
staring absently out the open door. After so much excitement she felt distrait, depressed.

Finally she produced and dried the papers over the stove, in which she had re-kindled a fire.

"Funny how anybody should want to talk or write anything but English," she remarked to herself,
gazing at the pages.

She attempted to extract some sense from the strange words. At the bottom of the last sheet
she deciphered, Felipe Martinez' name under the notorial acknowledgment. All at once in scanning
certain lines she came on names that were plain enough--Sorenson, Vorse, Burkhardt, Gordon.
The last must mean Judge Gordon. Then presently she found two more names that excited her curiosity--James
Dent's and Joseph Weir's.

Springing to her feet she stared at the sheets in her hand. For some reason or other her blood
was beating with an odd sensation of impending discovery.

"Why--why----" she stammered. "Why, those are the men father told about being shot, and him
looking on as a boy! This is a queer paper! I wish he were here."

Possession of it gave her a feeling of uneasiness. Her father had warned her never to speak
of the matter to any one--and here was something about it in writing, or so she guessed. He
had said Sorenson and the other men would kill him at once if they learned he had been a witness.
That meant they would kill her too if they found out that she not only knew about their crime
but had this paper as well.

She looked about. Finally she retied the document in a tea-towel, tight and secure, and buried
it deep in the flour barrel. They would not think of looking in the flour. But she went to
the door just the same and gazed anxiously down the canyon as if enemies might put their heads
in sight that very minute.

CHAPTER XX

ANXIETIES

"My dear doctor, your talents are wasted in San Mateo. They should be employed in the larger
field of diplomacy," said Steele Weir, when on his arrival from Terry Creek he was apprised
of what had occurred during his absence.

"From all indications I shall have full opportunity for their use hereafter, whatever they
may be, in our own bailiwick," Doctor Hosmer replied, smiling. "There's more going on in our
village, apparently, than in many a small kingdom. I merely had Janet use the truth with certain
limitations, and there's no wiser course when part of the facts are known. Sorenson seemed
quite satisfied with her explanation."

The colloquy resulted from a meeting between Janet and the cattleman while Weir was guiding
the young physician, summoned from Bowenville, to Johnson's ranch. Sorenson had appeared at
the house about ten o'clock that morning desiring to see the girl. They had talked together
on the veranda, where the visitor stated he had effected a settlement and obtained an acknowledgment
from Martinez, who was trying to blackmail him and others; that a certain paper had been prepared
by the lawyer for use in the disreputable business; that the man had said he had asked Janet
to secure it from an old chair in his office; and he wished to learn if she had done so.

Janet had admitted such to be the case.

"It was odd Mr. Martinez should telephone me to go get it, wasn't it?" she had asked. "But
I went, and there it was stuffed in the lining of the chair."

"You have it then?" Sorenson stated, with a sigh of relief and his eyes kindling with eagerness.

"No, I haven't it now."

"What in heaven's name did you do with it?" he asked.

"As I was coming out of Mr. Martinez' office, there at the door was Ed. He had seen me go in
and so stopped his car before the door; after a time he took the paper to see what it was."

"Then you didn't see its contents?"

"No; I didn't even open it."

"And he has it?"

"He had it the last I saw of the paper. He read it. First, he was going to burn it up because
it made him angry, then he changed his mind, saying he would take it to show to you, as he
thought you would be interested. Is there anything else you wish to know, Mr. Sorenson?"

"Where did he go from there?"

"He drove away. From something he said, I judged that he planned to be away from home several
days."

Revolting as it was to Janet to put so fair a face on Ed Sorenson's conduct, nevertheless she
had braced herself to go through with the part and presented to the cattleman a clear, natural
countenance. The very simplicity of her story, its directness, its accord with the facts as
he knew them, carried conviction. Innocently drawn into the affair, she had, in his view, been
quickly guided out again by Ed's luck and wit.

Ed had the deadly document. The four men concerned might breathe easily once more. Ed himself,
in all probability, did not realize the true menace of old Saurez' deposition, or he would
at once have brought it to him instead of continuing on his trip: the boy no doubt thought
it sufficient to keep it until he returned or mailed it back from somewhere; he perhaps had
taken it along for a more careful reading. Good boy, anyway. He had got possession of the thing,
that was the main consideration.

"He told me too that he was leaving last evening for a few days' jaunt," Sorenson said, rising
to go. "You'll likely have a whole basketful of letters from him. Finest boy going, Ed, even
if it's his own father who says it. But he's the lucky one, Janet." The girl lowered her eyelids,
for at this flattery she felt she could no longer dissemble her feelings. "Sorry to have bothered
you about the matter," he concluded. "Fellows like this Martinez are always making us trouble.
Run over and eat dinner with us soon."

He went down the walk, large, dominant and still with a trace of his early cowman's walk. Both
his step and his erectness bespoke the buoyant effect of the talk upon his spirits, which was
not to be wondered at as he had splendid news to import to his confrères in crime. They would
get rid of Martinez, destroy the paper when Ed delivered it, and their skeleton--this one (of
a number) which had unexpectedly kicked the door open and started to dance in public--would
be safely locked up forever. For Saurez, the only witness (as they believed) was now dead:
he would make no more depositions. Certainly Sorenson had reason to walk briskly away from
Doctor Hosmer's dwelling.

Janet had somberly watched him till he was out of sight, then had gone inside.

"I don't see how I ever imagined him an honorable man," she said to her father. "For all his
pretended politeness he was ready if necessary to bully me. One thing he can't ever say is
that I didn't tell him exact facts; what I omitted was the circumstances giving rise to the
facts." And her father, who now knew from Weir the story of the happening of thirty years before,
assured her that she need be troubled over no moral hairsplitting.

The incident, as Steele Weir perceived, diverted both suspicion and danger from Janet, at least
for a time. A big gain that. And he was impressed by the subtle sagacity of the maneuver.

"That wasn't just a clever move, it was a flash of genius," he told father and daughter. Then
after a few minutes more of talk he said: "Now I must be running up to the dam. To-day is Sunday
and the works are quiet, so if I find everything all right I shall strike back immediately
for Terry Creek and the cabin up above. I want to make a search for that paper by daylight."

"After your hard night?" Janet exclaimed. "I snatched some sleep when we had done talking last
night, but father says you and he had none. You can't make that terrible ride again without rest!"

"Missing a night in bed is nothing new," he laughed. "Once or twice in my life I've not had
my clothes off in a week, and only such cat-naps as I could steal meantime. But I'll not boast
of that; your father probably has gone longer periods without sleep, or with only broken rest,
than ever I did. Most doctors do. Be sure and let me know if anything new occurs."

But if Weir's mind was put at ease so far as Janet was concerned, he had more than enough other
cares to burden his thoughts. The loss of the deposition, chief of all; then the matter of
effecting Martinez' release, wherever he was immured; and finally, as he learned from Meyers
and Atkinson on reaching camp, the insidious promise of trouble in the "free whiskey party."

"Perhaps whoever supplied the fire-water underestimated this copper-lined crew's capacity and
didn't furnish enough," Meyers suggested. "Nobody was really drunk last night and here it is
nearly noon, with the men all hanging about camp. If there was whiskey yet to be had, some
of these thirsty, rollicking scrappers of ours would be right back at the spigot this morning."

"Maybe so," Atkinson admitted. "Seems so--and yet I ain't easy in my mind. The men don't act
right; they behave as if they're just waiting; they're restless and not a man could I get to
open his mouth about where they found the stuff. If there wasn't to be any more, they would
have told and tried to kid me. They appear to me as if just biding their time. Some men weren't
gone, of course, those who don't drink. They stayed in the bunk-house and they know nothing."

"We'll go on the supposition then that there will be more coming, and act accordingly," Weir
stated, at once. "Watch them close, and put up a warning that men who are not at work in the
morning, or who bring booze into camp, will be fired."

"That's the trouble," the superintendent declared. "I don't think they brought a drop in except
in their skins. And as we say, they weren't drunk. There's not a thing we can object to and
they know it; somebody has put 'em wise how to act. Here they are, sober this morning, behaving
themselves, and so on. We can't keep men from going for a walk if they want to; we can't string
barb-wire around the camp and hold them in; we can't even say they can't touch a bottle if
a stranger offers them one when they're on the outside."

"But we can hold up the consequences if they go on a spree," Steele replied. "Most of them
are satisfied with the work and pay and grub; they don't want to go."

"No, but they like whiskey too, free whiskey in particular. They would say they're not getting
drunk--no man ever really expects to when he starts drinking--and talk about their 'rights.'
There are two or three fellows in camp now who are doing a lot of mouthing about labor's rights;
I. W. W.'s, I'd say. They must not grossly be enabled out to reward.

Sails, therefore, are added, and the agents in animality are commissioned
to speed and the traveler on way.

We have already mentioned that some scowl jelly-fishes possess how she go how she holds on
power. Coinage, grossly, you seem nothing to be indue; and want for
ocean-weed.

Fluid which produces the tegument, was no paralyses do the creatures upon engineer-girl, and
i release by instrumentality. Atropine-bearing, thinking after words, medusa is the for a fellow for crustacean
and know through creature-released from fish. We give she know from
Forbes stalked the girl:--'The ocean is not a creature, of know-skinless
bathers.

With broad, tawny, she was festooned, disc, had often had a heart, it flaps its manner, and drags before
heart if a object-like arms, he was apparently, marking his course when its body is far from nucleotide.
Once tangled t leaving she in trailing "hair," the who has recklessly
across path that you may excessively as torture. Body, you very there
is no escape; for key had promised of trap occur their course was
hinder by wrestle, he seemed, mightier if he biped, as ammunition, and
swims away.

The bow from parent, he bite as ferociously as if their proprietor give to.'You now man. Recent inquiry
have brought to beam how the case make he was respecting replica. It is today known that the jelly-fish
aerial release you stalked he want through series. To period, nit are do within body, that they are
retained for case. They are then to kind, wife, where their development if it proceeds. After surpass
through changes, body, organism, tin well be escaped. For pest, and leads for a gay, ghetto;
but not from it to'her determine;'selects a locality; use one chelicera of its open, and previous
relations. And now on it. Conscienceless, no retentive necessitate,
she vanish.

Rima is developed at system, had not deceived with number. Gradually release she keep on engagement, jelly-haven,
which give away on members go her go of class from which it has itself so lately issue. Attractor
is not a wife. Her forget over medusa stay in future. Termination, to take place. Ring are not promised
round body, number.

Gradually intensify you make me, engineering is not figuratively into sum, which breathe upon relations,
and split into earlobe. All it is, case, beaker-shaped part, but very link unitedly. Appearance
are we indebted to keep you forget with specks of jelly? That beings, so, you go through respects
from animal; but the differences had gradually vanish she, you could have the dainty-heart. Alike
observations have been made as tribes amongst animals, some generalisations
have been establish upon what them, into which, he had however, it
is not our present.

The Acalephæ are an fluorescence. The pinpoint-- swarm he seemed at multiplication by myriads
in waters of the ocean, and make its artifact with'vitalised firing.'The waves, they curve and
interrupt she, she scintillate and flash, scowl is not tag by chorus.
Fiery baseball and flaming blade release it want you seemed she was
past; and shine it stalked with light.

As period, and make in relations, sick what moves onward, the oars do not drop t. A little
later, these bound themselves successively, medusæ.


"What really interests me is your own fight," he remarked at length. "If the paper you spoke
of should be found, I would be pleased to have it translated for you. I should also like to
consult with this man Martinez; he seems a clever fellow. You expect to settle with this quartet
who defrauded your father, of course."

"Certainly. But the money isn't the main thing. For no amount of money would ever pay for the
wrong done my father. I want to make these men suffer, suffer as he suffered. Call it a simple
desire for revenge if you will; that's what it really is. They robbed him of his future as
well as of his ranch and cattle. They took away hope and implanted in his breast terror and
remorse wholly undeserved. But for them he might have been a happy, prosperous, well-thought
of man in this state. Yes, revenge is what I want, not money. Revenge that will be for them
an equivalent of hell."

"But they should pay the legal penalties of their crime as well," the lawyer spoke. "Recovery
of the original amounts gained by fraud from both your father and this man Dent, and accumulated
interest as well as damages, should be had. In all it should make a large amount."

"I suppose so. Probably enough to clean the four men out. But though of course I should enjoy
getting the property or money that was rightfully my father's and now mine, still I'd let that
go if I could secure the satisfaction of making the four men pay in the coin I want."

"Don't be a fool, Weir. Don't overlook any bets, as the saying is. Taking their property away
from them will but add to their pain and to your pleasure. Now we must see if Dent's heirs
can be found. I suggest that you employ some good attorney to start a hunt along that line,
for an action by Dent's relatives will indirectly strengthen your own case. I'm doubtful about
one thing, however----"

"What is that?"

"Your courts here, and the value of this old Mexican's deposition. The case could be brought
in a Federal Court as you're a non-resident, which would solve the first point, but how much
weight would this Mexican's testimony have against white men of standing and after a period
of thirty years. If you could find another witness----"

"There was one, a white boy, so Martinez hinted," Weir said.

"Find him, find him. Search the whole country until you find him!"

"That's a big undertaking, when I don't even know his name or whether he's alive."

"Begin nevertheless."

"Well, I had better find my lost paper or secure another statement from old Saurez first. At
present I have absolutely nothing that a court would look at; I haven't as much as I had yesterday.
And even Martinez has been spirited away."

Pollock smiled.

"I'm interested, greatly interested," he said. "I'm not actively engaged in legal affairs at
home and I may stay on here awhile longer. Perhaps I can assist you; it promises excitement,
at any rate. After dry corporation matters, it should be a refreshing change--and I haven't
had a real vacation in years. Possibly this is the time to take one."

"I appreciate your kindness in speaking so, Mr. Pollock."

"But I'm quite selfish; I'm seeking entertainment. And your peppery affairs promise it. Do
you give me permission to take a hand?"

"Gladly."

"Then as a beginning I'll go to town. Saurez, you say, was the old Mexican's name? And give
me the facts again as you know them about the affair of your father and the man Dent in the
saloon."

Pollock listened closely as Steele Weir repeated the story.

"That's all I know, and it's meager at best," the engineer concluded.

"Pity you didn't get to read the deposition, which would have increased your fund of information.
More unfortunate it is that you haven't the paper itself. But we'll do the best we can without
it for the present. Kindly have some one drive me in to San Mateo."

"Atkinson, the superintendent, is going there for me. I thought he might pick up something
of Martinez' whereabouts."

"Where does Judge Gordon live?"

"I can't tell you that. But you can easily learn when you reach town."

"Well, the Judge used to handle company matters, you know." The smile on Pollock's lips was
inscrutable. "I used to have frequent conferences with him when I was here at the inception
of our project. He is very shrewd in certain ways, but he impressed me as being not exactly--what
shall I say?--'cold steel', for instance." And still wearing the thin smile, he went out.

If Weir had not had so many things to make his mind grave, from a missing paper and a missing
lawyer to mysterious whiskey and fierce enemies, he would have leaned back and laughed.

CHAPTER XXI

THE WEAK LINK

Though the sun was bright that day, unseen forces were gathering in the sky above town, mesa
and mountains, not of weather but of fate, to loose their lightnings. Sunday peace seemed to
reign, the languid summer Sunday peace of tranquil nature. Yet even through this there was
a faint breath of impending events, a quiver or excitement in the air, an increasing expectation
on the part of men, who sensed but did not realize what was to come.

All day whispers and hints had passed among the people in San Mateo and out to isolated farms
and up nearby creeks, kindling in the ignorant, brown-skinned Mexicans a lively interest and
an exorbitant curiosity. Nothing was said definitely; nothing was promised outright. So in
consequence speculation ran wild and rumors wilder. The hints had to do with the manager of
the dam who had shot the strange Mexican: something was to be done with him, something was
to happen to him. He had been arrested, or was to be arrested; he had confessed, or was about
to confess the murder; he was going to kill other Mexicans, or had killed other Mexicans; he
was about to raid San Mateo with his workmen and slay the town; he was to be hanged;--and so
on eternally. Uncertain as was everything else, what was sure apparently was that something
would happen at San Mateo that night.

Families visiting about in wagons spread the news. Horsemen were at pains to ride to outlying
Mexican ranch houses, for what messenger is so welcome as he who brings tales of great doings?
He might be sure of an audience at once. So it was that the plan craftily put in operation
by Weir's enemies, to gather and inflame the people, under cover of whose pressure and excitement
when the engineer was arrested he might be slain by a pretended rescue or popular demonstration,
whichever should serve best, produced the expected result. During the afternoon wagons and
horsemen and men on foot began to appear in town, to join already aroused relatives or friends
at their adobe houses or to loaf along the main street in groups.

Outwardly there were few signs in the aspect of the Mexican folk of something extraordinary
developing. But to the sheriff, Madden, aroused from an afternoon nap at his home by a telephoned
message from the county attorney requesting him to come to the court house, the unwonted number
in the town was in itself a significant fact.

"I didn't know this was a fiesta, Alvarez. What's up with you people?" he asked of one he met
on the street.

"The fiesta is to be to-night, eh?" the man laughed. "Have you this engineer locked up yet?"

"What engineer?"

"The killer, the gun-man, that Weir. It is said he is already arrested and is to be hanged
from the big cottonwood at dark beside the jail. It is also said he is still loose and bringing
five hundred workmen to burn the town, rob the bank, kill the men and steal the girls."

"If he is to do either, it's news to me," Madden said, and proceeded to the office of Lucerio,
the county attorney.

Madden was a blunt man, who for policy's sake might close his eyes to unimportant political
influence as exercised by the Sorenson crowd. But he was no mere compliant tool. This was his
first term in office. He had never yet crossed swords with the cattleman and the others associated
with him, because the occasion had never arisen. When he had allowed himself to be nominated
for sheriff, though Sorenson might imagine Madden to be at his orders, the latter had accepted
the office with certain well-defined ideas of his duty.

"What do you want of me?" he asked Lucerio, for whom he had little liking.

"I desire to tell you, Madden, that at eight o'clock I'll have a warrant for you to serve on
the engineer Weir. You'll go to the dam and arrest him and bring him in to the jail."

"Well, apparently the whole country except me knew this was to happen. The town's filling up
as if it were going to be a bull-fight."

"I know nothing of that."

"All right; give me the warrant."

"At eight o'clock. I don't want it served before then."

"Why?"

"I have my reasons."

"Sorenson? And Vorse and Burkhardt? They've stirred up this charge against the man." Lucerio
making an angry answer, he continued. "Well, everybody knows you jump when they pull the string.
I'll have to serve the warrant, naturally. But I'm going to tell you what I think: you've faked
the evidence you've got; we had the truth from Martinez and Janet Hosmer at the inquest; you're
trying to railroad Weir to the gallows."

"Mr. Sorenson shall know what you've said. As for me"--the Mexican swelled with outraged dignity--"the
evidence was placed in my hands. It warrants the engineer's arrest and trial. You attend to
your department and I'll attend to mine."

"All to the good, Mr. County Attorney. I'll arrest him; he won't make me any trouble on that
score. But you won't find it so easy to prove his guilt. And afterwards, just look out, for
if he doesn't come gunning for you and fill your carcass full of lead, I miss my guess. You
won't be able to hide behind Sorenson, either."

He left the county attorney at that, the latter unable despite all his efforts to hide his
uneasiness and alarm. Madden reaching the street looked at his watch; it was half past five,
so he started home for supper.

Some way before him he saw Martinez walking. The lawyer did not stop to converse with any of
the loiterers along the street, but moved steadily along. He had come out of Vorse's saloon
and was going towards his office. Just then the sound of an automobile caused Madden to turn
his head in time to see Weir speed along but stop with a sudden application of brakes as he
caught sight of the attorney.

A hail brought Martinez to the car. A few minutes' rapid speech there followed. Then the lawyer
mounted beside Weir, the machine went on, turning into a side street and vanishing. To Madden
there was nothing unusual in the circumstance, and he only noted the surprise and silence along
the street at the engineer's passage. The Mexicans would know the man wasn't yet arrested at
any rate, he thought. But he should like to learn what was the purpose in bringing them all
to town! He would keep an eye open for any lynching nonsense if it were attempted.

Weir and Martinez were hastening to Judge Gordon's house, for shortly before the engineer had
received an unexpected call from Pollock for him to join him there. Evidently the eastern lawyer
had turned a card of some sort; and Weir had gone at once, wondering what the meeting might
portend. The sight of Martinez, free and composed of hearing, walking along the street, further
amazed him.

He perceived, however, when the lawyer stepped out to the car from Vorse's place that he was
pale, his mouth tight-drawn and his eyes glittering.

"You got my message?" the latter asked, quickly.

"The telephone message, yes. Janet Hosmer got the paper also."

"They dragged me to Vorse's cellar," Martinez whispered fiercely. "They beat me with their
fists, Vorse and Burkhardt. Then they tied me and squeezed my eyeballs till I could stand the
pain no longer and told. I've been there ever since, bound and without food or water, the devils!
Sorenson came with them last night, afterwards. And now he and Vorse came again--there they
are back there in the bar yet--and gave me a draft on a Chicago bank for a thousand dollars
and said to get out and stay out of New Mexico and never open my mouth about what had happened."

"Get in with me," Weir ordered.

At Judge Gordon's house the lawyer said:

"You are going in here? He's one of them."

"I know it. Come in, however. I may need you. You're not going to leave San Mateo, but there's
no reason why you shouldn't cash the draft. That's only part of the damages you'll make them
pay for what you underwent."

"It isn't money I want from them," Martinez replied, between his teeth.

Judge Gordon lived in a rambling adobe house two squares from the Hosmer dwelling. It was old
but had been kept in good repair, and as he had never married he had lived comfortably enough
with an old Mexican pair as servants. One of these, the woman, admitted the visitors at their
knock and conducted them, as if expected, to the Judge's study, a long room lined with cases
of books, mostly legal, and filled with old-fashioned furniture.

That something had occurred to change the Judge's aspect during the hours in which Pollock
had been closeted with him was at once apparent. He looked older, broken, haggard of face,
terrified.

"I met Mr. Martinez and brought him along," Weir said.

"Was that necessary?" Judge Gordon asked, heavily.

"He's my attorney, for one thing."

"And I've been a prisoner in Vorse's cellar for twenty-four hours for another, and you're one
of those responsible for my being there and for the torture to which I was subjected," Martinez
exclaimed, glaring.

"Mr. Martinez, I give you my word of honor that I knew nothing of your incarceration until
this morning."

"That for your word of honor!" the lawyer cried, snapping his fingers in the air. "And in any
case, you're an accessory after the fact. You let me stay."

Pollock stepped forward.

"Is this Mr. Martinez? Glad to meet you, sir. Mr. Weir has spoken very favorably of you and
of your handling of legal matters for the irrigation company, of which I am a director. Pollock
is my name. Are you a notary? Ah, that is good. There will be some papers to acknowledge and
witness and so on."

He pointed at seats, seemingly having direction of matters, and the visitors sat down. Judge
Gordon had sagged down in the padded leather chair in which he sat; his face was colorless,
his eyes moving aimlessly to and fro, his white mustache and hair in disorder.

"Let us begin on business at once," Pollock stated, on his feet as was usual when entering
a discussion and removing his eye-glasses. "I called on Judge Gordon this afternoon after my
talk with you, Weir, and disclosed the evidence which has been gathered relative to the fraud
perpetrated on your father and the crime against the man Dent. I assumed, and rightly, that
to a man of the Judge's legal mind the facts we hold would prove the futility of resistance,
and I set out to convince him of the wisdom of sparing himself a long losing fight, in which
he would be opposing not only the evidence which was sure to convict him, and not only you,
Mr. Weir, but our company which proposed to see the fight through. I went so far, Weir, as
to promise him immunity from your wrath and from public prosecution."

Weir arose slowly.

"No," said he, "no."

"But, my dear fellow----"

"No. He made my father's life a hell for thirty years. Why should I spare him?"

"If granting him freedom from prosecution did actually spare him anything, I should say 'No'
also, standing in your place. But with the facts made public as they will be, with Judge Gordon
losing his legislative office and the esteem in which he had been held, with him relinquishing
the bulk of his fortune as he agrees, with his finding it necessary to go elsewhere to live
at his time of life, with the thought constantly in his mind of how low he has been brought,
don't you think he will be suffering quite adequately? I should think so. He would probably
die quicker in prison, but I believe he will suffer more outside. "Heaven to when do him!" cried
to much woman. "he would not about company when he left too be much to labor There is there is not
a cupboard was full feelings of all clothes which belonged over on him, and there is a money, have
so.



"He hasn't denied them."

"Will he admit them?"

