     " .  .  When I reached there, they immediately sent me two young
     girls dressed in rich garments.  The older one might not have been
     more than eleven years of age and the other seven; both with so much
     experience, so much manner, and so much appearance as would have
     been sufficient if they had been public women for twenty years.
     They bore with them magic powder and other things belonging to their
     art.  When they arrived I gave orders that they should be adorned
     with our things and sent them immediately ashore.  There I saw a
     tomb within the mountain as large as a house and finely worked with
     great artifice, and a corpse stood thereon uncovered, and, looking
     within it, it seemed as if he stood upright.  Of the other arts they
     told me that there was excellence.  Great and little animals are
     there in quantities, and very different from ours; among which I saw
     boars of frightful form so that a dog of the Irish breed dared not
     face them. Then
he saw him running, swinging his bulky form. They didn't want to reveal themselves from the
sea wind's veil.

After several days of work, they would be tired and hungry, but would
receive many additional visits.  I had pierced it with an arrow from one side to the
     other, entering in the breast and going out near the tail, and
     because it was very ferocious I cut off one of the fore feet which
     rather seemed to be a hand, and one of the hind feet.  The boars
     seeing this commenced to set up their bristles and fled with great
     fear, seeing the blood of the other animal.  When I saw this I
     caused to be thrown them the 'uegare,'--[Peccary]--certain animals
     they call so, where it stood, and approaching him, near as he was to
     death, and the arrow still sticking in his body, he wound his tail
     around his snout and held it fast, and with the other hand which
     remained free, seized him by the neck as an enemy.  This act, so
     magnificent and novel, together with the fine country and hunting of
     wild beasts, made me write this to your Majesties."

The natives at this anchorage of Cariari were rather suspicious, but Columbus seized two of
them to act as guides in his journey further down the coast.  Weighing anchor on October 5th
he worked along the Costa Rica shore, which here turns to the eastward again, and soon found
a tribe of natives who wore large ornaments of gold.  They were reluctant to part with the
gold, but as usual pointed down the coast and said that there was much more gold there; they
even gave a name to the place where the gold could be found--Veragua; and for once this country
was found to have a real existence.  The fleet anchored there on October 17th, being greeted
by defiant blasts of conch shells and splashing of water from the indignant natives.  Business
was done, however: seventeen gold discs in exchange for three hawks' bells.

Still Columbus went on in pursuit of his geographical chimera; even gold had no power to detain
him from the earnest search for this imaginary strait.  Here and there along the coast he saw
increasing signs of civilisation--once a wall built of mud and stone, which made him think
of Cathay again.  He now got it into his head that the region he was in was ten days' journey
from the Ganges, and that it was surrounded by water; which if it means anything means that
he thought he was on a large island ten days' sail to the eastward of the coast of India. 
Altogether at sea as to the facts, poor Admiral, but with heart and purpose steadfast and right
enough.

They sailed a little farther along the coast, now between narrow islands that were like the
streets of Genoa, where the boughs of trees on either hand brushed the shrouds of the ships;
now past harbours where there were native fairs and markets, and where natives were to be seen
mounted on horses and armed with swords; now by long, lonely stretches of the coast where there
was nothing to be seen but the low green shore with the mountains behind and the alligators
basking at the river mouths.  At last (November 2nd) they arrived at the cape known as Nombre
de Dios, which Ojeda had reached some time before in his voyage to the West.

The coast of the mainland had thus been explored from the Bay of Honduras to Brazil, and Columbus
was obliged to admit that there was no strait. Having satisfied himself of that he decided
to turn back to Veragua, where he had seen the natives smelting gold, in order to make some
arrangement for establishing a colony there.  The wind, however, which had headed him almost
all the way on his easterly voyage, headed him again now and began to blow steadily from the
west.  He started on his return journey on the 5th of December, and immediately fell into almost
worse troubles than he had been in before.  The wood of the ships had been bored through and
through by seaworms, so that they leaked very badly; the crews were sick, provisions were spoilt,
biscuits rotten. Young Ferdinand Columbus, if he did not actually make notes of this voyage
at the time, preserved a very lively recollection of it, and it is to his Historie, which in
its earlier passages is of doubtful authenticity, that we owe some of the most human touches
of description relating to this voyage.  Any passage in his work relating to food or animals
at this time has the true ring of boyish interest and observation, and is in sharp contrast
to the second-hand and artificial tone of the earlier chapters of his book.  About the incident
of the howling monkey, which the Admiral's Irish hound would not face, Ferdinand remarks that
it "frighted a good dog that we had, but frighted one of our wild boars a great deal more";
and as to the condition of the biscuits when they turned westward again, he says that they
were "so full of weevils that, as God shall help me, I saw many that stayed till night to eat
their sop for fear of seeing them."

After experiencing some terrible weather, in the course of which they had been obliged to catch
sharks for food and had once been nearly overwhelmed by a waterspout, they entered a harbour
where, in the words of young Ferdinand, "we saw the people living like birds in the tops of
the trees, laying sticks across from bough to bough and building their huts upon them; and
though we knew not the reason of the custom we guessed that it was done for fear of their enemies,
or of the griffins that are in this island."  After further experiences of bad weather they
made what looked like a suitable harbour on the coast of Veragua, which harbour, as they entered
it on the day of the Epiphany (January 9, 1503), they named Belem or Bethlehem.  The river
in the mouth of which they were anchored, however, was subject to sudden spouts and gushes
of water from the hills, one of which occurred on January 24th and nearly swamped the caravels.
This spout of water was caused by the rainy season, which had begun in the mountains and presently
came down to the coast, where it rained continuously until the 14th of February.  They had
made friends with the Quibian or chief of the country, and he had offered to conduct them to
the place where the gold mines were; so Bartholomew was sent off in the rain with a boat party
to find this territory.  It turned out afterwards that the cunning Quibian had taken them out
of his own country and showed them the gold mined of a neighbouring chief, which were not so
rich as his own.

