Even for a prince that, perhaps, was excessive. Nero may have felt that he had gone too far.
An emperor was omnipotent, he was not inviolable. Tiberius was suffocated, Caligula was stabbed,
Claud was poisoned. Nero, it may be, in feeling that he had gone too far, felt also that he
needed a scapegoat. Christian pyromania suggested itself. But probably it suggested itself
first to the Jews, who, Renan has intimated, denounced the Christians accordingly. Such may
have been the case. In any event, then it was that Christianity received its baptism of blood.

All antiquity was cruel, but, barring perhaps the immense Asiatic butcheries, Nero contrived
then to surpass anything that had been done. Bloated and hideous, his hair done up in a chignon,
a concave emerald for monocle, in the crowded arena he assisted at the rape of Christian girls.
Their lovers, their brothers and fathers were either eaten alive by beasts or, that night,
dressed in tunics that had been soaked in oil, were fastened to posts and set on fire, in order
that, as human torches, they might illuminate palace gardens, through which, costumed as a
jockey, Nero raced.

The spectacle in the amphitheatre, which fifty thousand people beheld; the succeeding festival
at which all Rome assembled, were two acts in the birthday of a faith.

Then, to the cradle, presently, Wise Men came with gifts--the gold, the frankincense, the myrrh,
of creeds anterior though less divine.

VIII

THE NEC PLUS ULTRA

It was after fastidious rites, the heart entirely devout and on his knees, that Angelico di
Fiesole drew a picture of the Christ. The attitude is emulative. It is with brushes dipped
in holy water that Jesus should be displayed, though more reverent still is the absence of
any delineation.

Reverence of that high character history formerly observed. There is no mention of the Saviour
in the chronicles of those who were blessed in being his contemporaries. One indiscreet remark
of Josephus has been recognized as the interpolation of a later hand, well-intentioned perhaps,
but misguided. Jesus glows in the Gospels. Yet they that awaited the day when, in a great aurora
borealis, the Son of man should appear, had passed from earth before one of the evangels was
written.

It was a hundred years later before the texts that comprise the New Testament were complete.
It was nearly two hundred before they were definitive. In the interim many gospels appeared.
Attributed indifferently to each of the Twelve, one was ascribed to Judas. There was a Gospel
to the Hebrews, a Gospel to the Egyptians. There were evangels of Childhood, of Perfection
and of Mary.

These primitive memoirs were based on oral accounts of occurrences long anterior. Into them
entered extraneous beauties, felicities of phrase and detail, which, with naïf effrontery,
were put into the mouth of one apostle or another, even into that of Jesus. The ascription
was regarded as highly commendable. It was but a way of glorifying the Lord. Besides, the scenarii
of these pious evocations the prophets had traced in advance.

That king of the poor whom Zachariah had foreseen, the stumbling block of Israel that Isaiah
had foretold, the Son, mentioned by Hosea, whom Jahveh had called out of Egypt, was the Saviour,
ascending in glory as Elijah had done. A passage incorrectly rendered by the Septuagint indicated
a virginal birth. That also was suggestive.

The little biographies in which these developments appeared were intended for circulation only
among an author's narrow circle of immediate friends, at most to be read aloud in devout reunions.
If, ultimately, of the entire collection, four only were retained, it is probably because these
best expressed existing convictions. Though, irrespective of their beauties, Irenæus said that
there had to be four and could be but four, for the reason that there are four seasons, four
winds, four corners of the earth, and the four revelations of Adam, Noah, Moses, and Jesus.

It is not on that perhaps arbitrary deduction that their validity resides, but rather because
the parables and miracles which they recite became the spiritual nourishment of a world. To
their title of eternal verities they have other and stronger claims. They have consoled and
they have ennobled. Elder creeds may have done likewise, but these lacked that of which Christianity
was the unique possessor, the marvel of a crucified god.

Saviours there had been. Mithra was a redeemer. Zoroaster was born of a virgin. Persephone
descended into hell. Osiris rose from the dead. Gotama was tempted by the devil. Moses was
transfigured. Elijah ascended into heaven. But in no belief is there a parallel for the crucifixion,
although in Hindu legend, Krishna, a divinity whose mythical infancy a mythical prototype of
Herod troubled, died, nailed by arrows to a tree.

In Oriental lore Krishna is held to have been the eighth avatar of Vishnu, of whom Gotama was
the ninth. Krishna was therefore anterior to the Buddha, at least in myth. But it would be
a grave impropriety to infer that with the legend concerning him the narrative of the crucifixion
has any other connection than the possible one of having suggested it. The Bhagavad-Purana,
in which the legend occurs, is relatively modern, though the legend itself may, like the Tripitaka,
have existed orally, for centuries, before it was finally committed to writing.

There can, however, be no impropriety in recalling analogies that exist between the Saviour
and one whom the Orient holds also divine. These analogies, set forth in the first chapter
of the present volume, are, it may be, wholly fortuitous, though Pliny stated that, centuries
before his day, disciples of Gotama were established on the Dead Sea and, from a passage in
Josephus, it seems probable that the Essenes were Buddhists, in the same degree perhaps that
the Pharisees were Parsis. But the point is also obscure. It is immaterial as well. The Gospels
were not written in Jerusalem but mainly in Rome, where crucifixions were common, as they were,
for that matter, throughout the East, but where, too, all religions were acclimated and the
supernatural was at home.

Rome had witnessed the tours de force of Apollonios of Tyana. Those of Simon the Magician had
also been beheld. Rome had seen, or, it may be, thought she believed she had seen, Vespasian
cure the halt and the blind with a touch. The atmosphere then was charged with the marvellous.

There was something superior. Rome was the depository of the legends and lore of the world.
A haunt of the Muses, the sensual city was a hermitage of philosophy as well. These things
collectively represented a great literary feast, of which not all the courses have descended
to us, though, as is not impossible, a lost dish or two, transmuted, by the alchemy of faith,
from dross into gold, the Gospels may perhaps contain.

In that case there is cause for great thankfulness. Moreover, assuming the transmutation, no
impiety can be implied. It was as usual and as indicated as were papyrus and the stylus. It
is common to-day for a poet, before spreading his own wings, to contemplate those of another.
Inspiration is infectious.

A page of verse, whether Hindu, Persian, Egyptian, Greek, or Latin, was as useful then. Dante
fed on the troubadours. They are lost and forgot. He divinely stands greater than the tallest
of them all. In a measure the same may be true of those from whom the Gospels came. Yet with
a very notable difference. The Divina Commedia was written for all time. So too were the Gospels.
But not intentionally. They were written to prepare man for the immediate termination of the
world. With the most perfect propriety, therefore, anything serviceable could have been utilized
and probably was. The devout had but to lift their eyes. In the words of Isaiah, there, before
them, were the treasures of nations; there were the camels and dromedaries bearing from every
side incense and gold; there were the sons of strangers to build up their walls.

The sons were many, the treasures as great. Even otherwise there was the Law, there too were
the Prophets. Moses fasted for forty days. Elisha performed a miracle of the loaves, if he
did not that of the fishes. Job saw the Lord walking upon the sea. Jeremiah said: "Seek and
ye shall find." Isaiah bid those that sorrowed come and be consoled. In the poem of that poet
the servant of the Lord had vinegar when he thirsted, he was spat upon and for his garments
lots were cast.

In an effort to fill in a picture of which the central figure had passed from the real to the
ideal, these things may have been suggestive. So also, perhaps, was the Talmud. The redaction
of that chaos began in the second century. But the Vedas, the Homeric poems, the Tripitaka
as well, existed in memory long before they were committed to writing. The same is true of
the Talmud. Orally it existed prior to the Christ. Considered as literature, if it may be so
considered, it is the reverse of endearing. But of the many maxims that it contains there are
some of singular charm. Among others is the Lay not up for yourselves treasures on earth.[65]
The origin of that, as already indicated, is traceable to the Tripitaka, which, parenthetically,
were so well known in Babylon that Gotama was there regarded as a Chaldean seer. That abridgement
of the Law which is called the Golden Rule is also in the Talmud,[66] as also, before the Talmud
was, it was in the Tripitaka. The injunction to love one's enemies is equally in both. So is
the very excellent suggestion that one should consider one's own faults before admonishing
a brother concerning his defects. Currently cited with multiple others they were all so many
common sayings, which, strung together in the Gospels, became a rosary of most perfect pearls.

[Footnote 65: Talmud Babli: Baba bathra, 11 a.]

[Footnote 66: Schabbath, 37 a.]

In a passage of Irenæus it is stated that the Gospel according to St. Matthew was arranged
by the Church for the benefit of the Jews who awaited a Messiah descended from David. A Syro-Chaldaic
evangel, known as the Gospel to the Hebrews, had then appeared. So also had the Gospel according
to St. Mark. But these offered no evidence that Jesus was the one they sought. Another was
then prepared. Written in Greek and bearing the authoritative name of Matthew, it traced from
David, Joseph's descent.

The prophecy mentioned occurs in Isaiah vii, 14. But the Aramaic reading is: "Behold an 'almâ
shall conceive." 'Almâ means young woman. The Septuagint, in translating it, employed the term
[Greek: parthenos], or maiden. In Matthew the term was retained.

Matthew, at the time, had long been dead. Even had he been living it is improbable that he
could write in Greek. Unfortunately there were others who could not only write Greek but read
Hebrew. In particular, there was a rabbi Aquila who retranslated Isaiah with no other purpose
than the malign object of definitely re-establishing the exact expression which the old poet
had used.[67]

[Footnote 67: Renan: Les Evangiles.]

It was presumably in these circumstances that the Evangel of Mary was advanced. Among other
elucidations, the work contained professional testimony of the immaculacy that was claimed.
Additionally, in reparation of the earlier oversight, the Virgin was genealogically descended
from the royal line.

That, however, is apocryphal, and if, regarding the other genealogy, exegesis has since obscured
the luminousness of the method adapted by the Church, the latter's intention was none the less
irreproachable, and that alone imports. Before it, before the miracle of the nativity and the
divine episodes of the transfiguration, crucifixion, resurrection, and ascension, reverently
the Occident has knelt. They are indeed divine. If they did not occur in Judea, they have occurred
ever since. Continuously, in the hearts of the devout, they are repeated.

Unhappily there were heretics then as now. To the Gnostics, Jesus was an æon that had never
been. To the Docetists, he was a phantasm. There are always brutes that can believe but in
the reality of things. There are others to whom the symbolic is dumb. In the Gospels there
is much that is figurative, there is more that is ineffable, there are suggestions sheerly ideal.

"In my Father's house are many mansions," the Saviour declared. In his own ministry there are
as many lights. He was a vagrant and he created pure sentiment. He was a nihilist and he inspired
a new conception of life. He said he had not come to destroy and he changed the face of the
earth. He remitted the sins of a harlot and condemned both marriage and love. There are other
antitheses, deeper contradictions. These perhaps are more apparent than real. Behind them there
may have been the co-ordination of a central thought. Of many gospels but few remain. Among
the lost evangels was one that Valentinian said was imparted only to the more spiritual of
the disciples. It may be that in it a main idea was elucidated and, perhaps, as a consequence,
the meaning of the esoteric proclamation: "Before Abraham was I am."

Yet though now the authoritative explanation be lacking, its significance seems to run beneath
the texts. At the first apparition of Jesus, the chief preoccupation of those that stood about
was what prophet of the old days had returned in the new. Some thought him Elijah. Others Jeremiah.
Antipas feared that he was the Baptist revived. Jesus himself asked the disciples whom he was
said to be. Later he assured them that the awaited return of Elijah had been accomplished in
John. That assurance, together with the perplexities regarding him and the esoteric announcement
which he made concerning himself, can hardly indicate anything else than a belief in reincarnation.

The belief, common to all antiquity, though not necessarily valid on that account, is not discernible
in Hebrew thought, perhaps for the reason that it is not perceptible in Babylonian. Yet the
myth of Eden barely conceals it. It is almost obvious in the allegory of Beth-el. Solomon said:
"I was set up from everlasting, from the beginning or ever earth was." If the idea contained
in that statement was not a part of the philosophy attributed to the Christ, it might have
been. The amount of beauty stored in it is more enormous than in any other.

To the materialist the beauty is meaningless. To the mathematician it has the value of a zero
from which the periphery has gone. But at the Pillars of Hercules early geographers put on
their maps: Hic deficit orbis--Here ends the world. They had no suspicion that beyond that
world there stretched another twice as great. Materialists may be equally naïf. On the other
hand, they may not be. The theory of reincarnation is one that transcends the limits of experience.

Of the many tenets of the belief there are but two with which the matter-of-fact agrees. One
of them concerns the conservation of energy, the other the negation of death. Theory and practice
unite in admitting that the supply of energy is invariable. Constantly it is transformed and
as constantly transposed, but whether it enter into fungus or star, into worm or man, the loss
of a particle never occurs. Death consequently is but the constituent of a change. When it
comes, that which was living assumes a state that has in it the potentiality of another form.
A tenement has crumbled and a tenant gone forth. Though just where is the riddle.

In the thousand and one nights that were less astronomic than our own, it was thought that
the riddle was answered. Poets had erected an edifice of verse and called it Creation. In the
strophes of the epic the earth was a flat and stationary parallelogram. About the earth, and
uniquely for its benefit, sun, moon and stars paraded. Above was a deity one or multiple. Below
were places of vivid discomfort. To the latter, or to the former, the soul of man proceeded.
There were no other resorts. Creation had its limits.

Poets younger yet more gray have presented a different conception. In the glare of a million
million of suns they have sent the earth spinning like a midge. Beyond the uttermost horizon
they have strewn other systems, other worlds; beyond the latter, more. Wherever imagination
in its weariness would set a limit, there is space begun.

There too is energy. Throughout the stretch of universes the same force pulsates that is recognizable
here. A deduction is obvious. Throughout infinity are sentient beings, perhaps our brothers,
perhaps ourselves.

The obvious, very frequently, is misleading. But the dream of precipitation into that wonderful
tornado of worlds has the merit of more colourful idealism than that which was formerly displayed.
Taken but as an hypothesis, it holds suggestions ampler than any other conveys. It intimates
that just as the butterfly rises from the chrysalis, so does the spiritual rise from the flesh.
It indicates that just as the sun cannot set, so is it impossible for death to be.

There are topics about which words hover like enchanted bees. Death is one of them. Mediævally
it was represented by a skeleton to which prose had given a rictus, poetry a scythe, and philosophy
wings. From its eyries it swooped spectral and sinister. Previously it was more gracious. In
Greece it resembled Eros. Among its attributes was beauty. It did not alarm. It beckoned and
consoled. The child of Night, the brother of Sleep, it was less funereal than narcotic. The
theory of it generally was beneficent. But not enduring. In the change of things death lost
its charm. It became a sexless nightmare-frame of bones topped by a grinning skull. That perhaps
was excessive. In epicurean Rome it was a marionette that invited you to wreathe yourself with
roses before they could fade. In the Muslim East it was represented by Azrael, who was an angel.
In Vedic India it was represented by Yama, who was a god. But mediævally in Europe the skeleton
was preferred. Since then it has changed again. It is no longer a spectral vampire. It has
acquired the serenity of a natural law. Regarding the operation of that law there are perhaps
but three valid conjectures. Rome entertained all of them. There, there was a tomb on which
was written Umbra. Before it was another on which was engraved Nihil. Between the two was a
portal behind which the Nec plus ultra stood revealed.

The portal, fashioned by the philosophy of ages, still is open, wider than before, on vaster
horizons and unsuspected skies. Through it one may see the explication of things; the reason
why men are not born equal, why some are rich and some are poor, why some are weak and some
are strong, why some are wise and many are not. One may see there too the reason of joys and
sorrows, the cause of tears and smiles. One may see also how the soul changes its raiment and
how it happens to have a raiment to change. One may see all these things, and others besides,
in the revelation that this life, being the refuse of many deaths, has acquired merits and
demerits in accordance with which are present punishments and rewards.

In proportion as these are utilized or disregarded, so perhaps is retrogression induced or
progress achieved. But not in Hades or yet in Elysium. These were the inventions of man for
his brother. So also was the very neighbourly heaven which the early Church devised. But because
that has gone from the sidereal chart, it does not follow that there is no such place. Because
there is nothing alarming under the earth, it does not follow that hell has ceased to be. On
the contrary. Both are constant, though it be but in the heart.

In the light of reincarnation it is probable that neither can occur there without anterior
cause. But probably too it is the preponderance of either that creates the mystery of life,
as it may also foreshadow the portent of death. Pending payment, there, perhaps the soul must
wait. But the bill of its past acquitted, it may be that then it shall be free to pursue on
trillions of spheres the diversified course of endless life--free to pass from world to world,
from beatitude to bliss, from transformation to transfiguration, from the transitory to the
eternal; weaving, meanwhile, a garland of migrations that stretch from sky to sky, marrying
its memoirs with those of the universe, and, finally, from some ultimate zenith, reviewing,
as it casts them aside, the masks of concluded incarnations.

The prospect, overwhelming in beauty, is really divine. The divine is always utopian. But there
is the supreme Alhambra of dream. It exceeds any other, however excessive another may be. It
is the Nec plus ultra. Into it all may wander and never weary of the wonders that are there.
It may be unrealizable, but for that very reason it must be also ideal.

FINIS HISTORIÆ DEORUM