HUNTING SKETCHES

by Anthony Trollope

Contents:

     The Man who Hunts and Doesn't Like it
     The Man who Hunts and Does Like it
     The Lady who Rides to Hounds
     The Hunting Farmer
     The Man who Hunts and Never Jumps
     The Hunting Parson
     The Master of Hounds
     How to Ride to Hounds

THE MAN WHO HUNTS AND DOESN'T LIKE IT.

It seems to be odd, at first sight, that there should be any such men as these; but their name
and number is legion. If we were to deduct from the hunting-crowd farmers, and others who hunt
because hunting is brought to their door, of the remainder we should find that the "men who
don't like it" have the preponderance. It is pretty much the same, I think, with all amusements.
How many men go to balls, to races, to the theatre, how many women to concerts and races, simply
because it is the thing to do? They have perhaps, a vague idea that they may ultimately find
some joy in the pastime; but, though they do the thing constantly, they never like it. Of all
such men, the hunting men are perhaps the most to be pitied.

They are easily recognized by any one who cares to scrutinize the men around him in the hunting
field. It is not to be supposed that all those who, in common parlance, do not ride, are to
be included among the number of hunting men who don't like it. Many a man who sticks constantly
to the roads and lines of gates, who, from principle, never looks at a fence, is much attached
to hunting. Some of those who have borne great names as Nimrods in our hunting annals would
as life have led a forlorn-hope as put a horse at a flight of hurdles. But they, too, are known;
and though the nature of their delight is a mystery to straight-going men, it is manifest enough,
that they do like it. Their theory of hunting is at any rate plain. They have an acknowledged
system, and know what they are doing. But the men who don't like it, have no system, and never
know distinctly what is their own aim. During some portion of their career they commonly try
to ride hard, and sometimes for a while they will succeed. In short spurts, while the cherry-brandy
prevails, they often have small successes; but even with the assistance of a spur in the head
they never like it.

Dear old John Leech! What an eye he had for the man who hunts and doesn't like it! But for
such, as a pictorial chronicler of the hunting field he would have had no fame. Briggs, I fancy,
in his way did like it. Briggs was a full-blooded, up-apt, awkward, sanguine man, who was able
to like anything, from gin and water upwards. But with how many a wretched companion of Briggs'
are we not familiar? men as to whom any girl of eighteen would swear from the form of his visage
and the carriage of his legs as he sits on his horse that he was seeking honour where honour
was not to be found, and looking for pleasure in places where no pleasure lay for him.

But the man who hunts and doesn't like it, has his moments of gratification, and finds a source
of pride in his penance. In the summer, hunting does much for him. He does not usually take
much personal care of his horses, as he is probably a town man and his horses are summered
by a keeper of hunting stables; but he talks of them. He talks of them freely, and the keeper
of the hunting stables is occasionally forced to write to him. And he can run down to look
at his nags, and spend a few hours eating bad mutton chops, walking about the yards and paddocks,
and, bleeding halfcrowns through the nose. In all this there is a delight which offers some
compensation for his winter misery to our friend who hunts and doesn't like it.

He finds it pleasant to talk of his horses especially to young women, with whom, perhaps, the
ascertained fact of his winter employment does give him some credit. It is still something
to be a hunting man even yet, though the multiplicity of railways and the existing plethora
of money has so increased the number of sportsmen, that to keep a nag or two near some well-known
station, is nearly as common as to die. But the delight of these martyrs is at the highest
in the presence of their tailors; or, higher still, perhaps, in that of their bootmakers. The
hunting man does receive some honour from him who makes his breeches; and, with a well-balanced
sense of justice, the tailor's foreman is, I think, more patient, more admiring, more demonstrative
in his assurances, more ready with his bit of chalk, when handling the knee of the man who
doesn't like the work, than he ever is with the customer who comes to him simply because he
wants some clothes fit for the saddle. The judicious conciliating tradesman knows that compensation
should be given, and he helps to give it. But the visits to the bootmaker are better still.
The tailor persists in telling his customer how his breeches should be made, and after what
fashion they should be worn; but the bootmaker will take his orders meekly. If not ruffled
by paltry objections as to the fit of the foot, he will accede to any amount of instructions
as to the legs and tops. And then a new pair of top boots is a pretty toy; Costly, perhaps,
if needed only as a toy, but very pretty, and more decorative in a gentleman's dressing-room
than any other kind of garment. And top boots, when multiplied in such a locality, when seen
in a phalanx tell such pleasant lies on their owner's behalf. While your breeches are as dumb
in their retirement as though you had not paid for them, your conspicuous boots are eloquent
with a thousand tongues! There is pleasure found, no doubt, in this.

As the season draws nigh the delights become vague, and still more vague; but, nevertheless,
there are delights. Getting up at six o'clock in November to go down to Bletchley by an early
train is not in itself pleasant, but on the opening morning, on the few first opening mornings,
there is a promise about the thing which invigorates and encourages the early riser. He means
to like it this year if he can. He has still some undefined notion that his period of pleasure
will now come. He has not, as yet, accepted the adverse verdict which his own nature has given
against him in this matter of hunting, and he gets into his early tub with acme glow of satisfaction.
And afterwards it is nice to find himself bright with mahogany tops, buff-tinted breeches,
and a pink coat. The ordinary habiliments of an English gentleman are so sombre that his own
eye is gratified, and he feels that he has placed himself in the vanguard of society by thus
shining in his apparel. And he will ride this year! He is fixed to that purpose. He will ride
straight; and, if possible, he will like it.

But the Ethiop cannot change his skin, nor can any man add a cubit to his stature. He doesn't
like it, and all around him in the field know how it is with him; he himself knows how it is
with others like himself, and he congregates with his brethren. The period of his penance has
come upon him. He has to pay the price of those pleasant interviews with his tradesmen. He
has to expiate the false boasts made to his female cousins. That row of boots cannot be made
to shine in his chamber for nothing. The hounds have found, and the fox is away. Men are fastening
on their flat-topped hats and feeling themselves in their stirrups. Horses are hot for the
run, and the moment for liking it has come, if only it were possible!

But at moments such as these something has to be done. The man who doesn't like it, let him
dislike it ever so much, Cannot check his horse and simply ride back to the hunting stables.
He understands that were he to do that, he must throw up his cap at once and resign. Nor can
he trot easily along the roads with the fat old country gentleman who is out on his rough cob,
and who, looking up to the wind and remembering the position of adjacent coverts, will give
a good guess as to the direction in which the field will move. No; he must make an effort.
The time of his penance has come, and the penance must be borne. There is a spark of pluck
about him, though unfortunately he has brought it to bear in a wrong direction. The blood still
runs at his heart, and he resolves that he will ride, if only he could tell which way.

The stout gentleman on the cob has taken the road to the left with a few companions; but our
friend knows that the stout gentleman has a little game of his own which will not be suitable
for one who intends to ride. Then the crowd in front has divided itself. Those to the right
rush down a hill towards a brook with a ford. One or two, men whom he hates with an intensity
of envy, have jumped the brook, and have settled to their work. Twenty or thirty others are
hustling themselves through the water. The time for a judicious start on that side is already
gone. But others, a crowd of others, are facing the big ploughed field immediately before them.
That is the straightest riding, and with them he goes. Why has the scent lain so hot over the
up-turned heavy ground? Why do they go so fast at this the very first blush of the morning?
Fortune is always against him, and the horse is pulling him through the mud as though the brute
meant to drag his arm out of the socket. At the first fence, as he is steadying himself, a
butcher passes him roughly in the jump and nearly takes away the side of his top boot. He is
knocked half out of his saddle, and in that condition scrambles through. When he has regained
his equilibrium he sees the happy butcher going into the field beyond. He means to curse the
butcher when he catches him, but the butcher is safe. A field and a half before him he still
sees the tail hounds, and renews his effort. He has meant to like it to-day, and he will. So
he rides at the next fence boldly, where the butcher has left his mark, and does it pretty
well, with a slight struggle. Why is it that he can never get over a ditch without some struggle
in his saddle, some scramble with his horse? Why does he curse the poor animal so constantly,
unless it be that he cannot catch the butcher? Now he rushes at a gate which others have opened
for him, but rushes too late and catches his leg. Mad with pain, he nearly gives it up, but
the spark of pluck is still there, and with throbbing knee he perseveres. How he hates it!
It is all detestable now. He cannot hold his horse because of his gloves, and he cannot get
them off. The sympathetic beast knows that his master is unhappy, and makes himself unhappy
and troublesome in consequence. Our friend is still going, riding wildly, but still keeping
a grain of caution for his fences. He has not been down yet, but has barely saved himself more
than once. The ploughs are very deep, and his horse, though still boring at him, pants heavily.
Oh, that there might come a check, or that the brute of a fox might happily go to ground! But
no! The ruck of the hunt is far away from him in front, and the game is running steadily straight
for some well known though still distant protection. But the man who doesn't like it still
sees a red coat before him, and perseveres in chasing the wearer of it. The solitary red coat
becomes distant, and still more distant from him, but he goes on while he can yet keep the
line in which that red coat has ridden. He must hurry himself, however, or he will be lost
to humanity, and will be alone. He must hurry himself, but his horse now desires to hurry no
more. So he puts his spurs to the brute savagely, and then at some little fence, some ignoble
ditch, they come down together in the mud, and the question of any further effort is saved
for the rider. When he arises the red coat is out of sight, and his own horse is half across
the field before him. In such a position, is it possible that a man should like it?

About four o'clock in the afternoon, when the other men are coming in, he turns up at the hunting
stables, and nobody asks him any questions. He may have been doing fairly well for what anybody
knows, and, as he says nothing of himself, his disgrace is at any rate hidden. Why should he
tell that he had been nearly an hour on foot trying to catch his horse, that he had sat himself
down on a bank and almost cried, and that he had drained his flask to the last drop before
one o'clock? No one need know the extent of his miseries. And no one does know how great is
the misery endured by those who hunt regularly, and who do not like it.

THE MAN WHO HUNTS AND DOES LIKE IT.

The man who hunts and does like it is an object of keen envy to the man who hunts and doesn't;
but he, too, has his own miseries, and I am not prepared to say that they are always less aggravating
than those endured by his less ambitious brother in the field. He, too, when he comes to make
up his account, when he brings his hunting to book and inquires whether his whistle has been
worth its price, is driven to declare that vanity and vexation of spirit have been the prevailing
characteristics of his hunting life. On how many evenings has he returned contented with his
sport? How many days has he declared to have been utterly wasted? How often have frost and
snow, drought and rain, wind and sunshine, impeded his plans? for to a hunting man frost, snow,
drought, rain, wind and sunshine, will all come amiss. Then, when the one run of the season
comes, he is not there! He has been idle and has taken a liberty with the day; or he has followed
other gods and gone with strange hounds. With sore ears and bitter heart he hears the exaggerated
boastings of his comrades, and almost swears that he will have no more of it. At the end of
the season he tells himself that the season's amusement has cost him five hundred pounds; that
he has had one good day, three days that were not bad, and that all the rest have been vanity
and vexation of spirit. After all, it may be a question whether the man who hunts and doesn't
like it does not have the best of it.

When we consider what is endured by the hunting man the wonder is that any man should like
it. In the old days of Squire Western, and in the old days too since the time of Squire Western,
the old days of thirty years since, the hunting man had his hunting near to him. He was a country
gentleman who considered himself to be energetic if he went out twice a week, and in doing
this he rarely left his house earlier for that purpose than he would leave it for others. At
certain periods of the year he if ho went out twice a he rarely left his house than he would
leave it periods of the year he would, perhaps, be out before dawn; but then the general habits
of his life conduced to early rising; and his distances were short. If he kept a couple of
horses for the purpose he was well mounted, and these horses were available for other uses.
He rode out and home, jogging slowly along the roads, and was a martyr to no ambition. All
that has been changed now. The man who hunts and likes it, either takes a small hurting seat
away from the comforts of his own home, or he locates himself miserably at an inn, or he undergoes
the purgatory of daily journeys up and down from London, doing that for his hunting which no
consideration of money-making would induce him to do for his business. His hunting requires
from him everything, his time, his money, his social hours, his rest, his sweet morning sleep;
nay, his very dinners have to be sacrificed to this Moloch!

Let us follow him on an ordinary day. His groom comes to his bed-chamber at seven o'clock,
and tells him that it has frozen during the night. If he be a London man, using the train for
his hunting, he knows nothing of the frost, and does not learn whether the day be practicable
or not till he finds himself down in the country. But we will suppose our friend to be located
in some hunting district, and accordingly his groom visits him with tidings. "Is it freezing
now?" he asks from under the bedclothes. And even the man who does like it at such moments
almost wishes that the answer should be plainly in the affirmative. Then swiftly again to the
arms of Morpheus he might take himself, and ruffle his temper no further on that morning! He
desires, at any rate, a decisive answer. To be or not to be as regards that day's hurting is
what he now wants to know. But that is exactly what the groom cannot tell him. "It's just a
thin crust of frost, sir, and the s'mometer is a standing at the pint." That is the answer
which the man makes, and on that he has to come to a decision! For half an hour he lies doubting
while his water is getting cold, and then sends for his man again. The thermometer is still
standing at the point, but the man has tried the crust with his heel and found it to be very
thin. The man who hunts and likes it scorns his ease, and resolves that he will at any rate
persevere. He tumbles into his tub, and a little before nine comes out to his breakfast, still
doubting sorely whether or no the day "will do." There he, perhaps, meets one or two others
like himself, and learns that the men who hunt and don't like it are still warm in their beds.
On such mornings as these, and such mornings are very many, the men who hunt and do not like
it certainly have the best of it. The man who hunts and does like it takes himself out to some
kitchen-garden or neighbouring paddock, and kicks at the ground himself. Certainly there is
a crust, a very manifest crust. Though he puts up in the country, he has to go sixteen miles
to the meet, and has no means of knowing whether or no the hounds will go out. "Jorrocks always
goes if there's a chance," says one fellow, speaking of the master. "I don't know," says our
friend; "he's a deal slower at it than he used to be. For my part, I wish Jorrocks would go;
he's getting too old." Then he bolts a mutton chop and a couple of eggs hurriedly, and submits
himself to be carried off in the trap.

Though he is half an hour late at the meet, no hounds have as yet come, and he begins to curse
his luck. A non-hunting day, a day that turns out to be no day for hunting purposes, begun
in this way, is of all days the most melancholy. What is a man to do with himself who has put
himself into his boots and breeches, and who then finds himself, by one o'clock, landed back
at his starting-point without employment? Who under such circumstances can apply himself to
any salutary employment? Cigars and stable-talk are all that remain to him; and it is well
for him if he can refrain from the additional excitement of brandy and water.

But on the present occasion we will not presume that our friend has fallen into so deep a bathos
of misfortune. At twelve o'clock Tom appears, with the hounds following slowly at his heels;
and a dozen men, angry with impatience, fly at him with assurances that there has been no sign
of frost since ten o'clock. "Ain't there?" says Tom; "you look at the north sides of the banks,
and see how you'd like it." Some one makes an uncivil remark as to the north sides of the banks,
and wants to know when old Jorrocks is coming. "The squire 'll be here time enough," says Tom.
And then there takes place that slow walking up and down of the hounds, which on such mornings
always continues for half an hour. Let him who envies the condition of the man who hunts and
likes it, remember that a cold thaw is going on, that our friend is already sulky with waiting,
that to ride up and down for an hour and a half at a walking pace on such a morning is not
an exhilarating pastime, and he will understand that the hunting man himself may have doubts
as to the wisdom of his course of action.

But at last Jorrocks is there, and the hounds trot off to cover. So dull has been everything
on this morning that even that is something, and men begin to make themselves happier in the
warmth of the movement. The hounds go into covert, and a period of excitement is commenced.
Our friend who likes hunting remarks to his neighbour that the ground is rideable. His neighbour
who doesn't like it quite so well says that he doesn't know. They remain standing close together
on a forest ride for twenty minutes, but conversation doesn't go beyond that. The man who doesn't
like it has lit a cigar, but the man who does like it never lights a cigar when hounds are drawing.

And now the welcome music is heard, and a fox has been found. Mr. Jorrocks, gallopping along
the ride with many oaths, implores those around him to hold their tongues and remain quiet.
Why he should trouble himself to do this, as he knows that no one will obey his orders, it
is difficult to surmise. Or why men should stand still in the middle of a large wood when they
expect a fox to break, because Mr. Jorrocks swears at them, is also not to be understood. Our
friend pays no attention to Mr. Jorrocks, but makes for the end of the ride, going with ears
erect, and listening to the distant hounds as they turn upon the turning fox. As they turn,
he returns; and, splashing through the mud of the now softened ground, through narrow tracks,
with the boughs in his face, listening always, now hoping, now despairing, speaking to no one,
but following and followed, he makes his way backwards and forwards through the wood, till
at last, weary with wishing and working, he rests himself in some open spot, and begins to
eat his luncheon. It is now past two, and it would puzzle him to say what pleasure he has as
yet had out of his day's amusement.

But now, while the flask is yet at his mouth, he hears from some distant corner a sound that
tells him that the fox is away. He ought to have persevered, and then he would have been near
them. As it is, all that labour of riding has been in vain, and he has before him the double
task of finding the line of the hounds and of catching them when he has found it. He has a
crowd of men around him; but he knows enough of hunting to be aware that the men who are wrong
at such moments are always more numerous than they who are right. He has to choose for himself,
and chooses quickly, dashing down a ride to the right, while a host of those who know that
he is one of them who like it, follow closely at his heels, too closely, as he finds at the
first fence out of the woods, when one of his young admirers almost jumps on the top of him.
"Do you want to get into my pocket, sir?" he says, angrily. The young admirer is snubbed, and,
turning away, attempts to make a line for himself.

But though he has been followed, he has great doubt as to his own course. To hesitate is to
be lost, so he goes on, on rapidly, looking as he clears every fence for the spot at which
he is to clear the next; but he is by no means certain of his course. Though he has admirers
at his heels who credit him implicitly, his mind is racked by an agony of ignorance. He has
got badly away, and the hounds are running well, and it is going to be a good thing; and he
will not see it. He has not been in for anything good this year, and now this is his luck!
His eye travels round over the horizon as he is gallopping, and though he sees men here and
there, he can catch no sign of a hound; nor can he catch the form of any man who would probably
be with them. But he perseveres, choosing his points as he goes, till the tail of his followers
becomes thinner and thinner. He comes out upon a road, and makes the pace as good as he can
along the soft edge of it. He sniffs at the wind, knowing that the fox, going at such a pace
as this, must run with it. He tells himself from outward signs where he is, and uses his dead
knowledge to direct him. He scorns to ask a question as he passes countrymen in his course,
but he would give five guineas to know exactly where the hounds are at that moment. He has
been at it now forty minutes, and is in despair. His gallant nag rolls a little under him,
and he knows that he has been going too fast. And for what; for what? What good has it all
done him? What good will it do him, though he should kill the beast? He curses between his
teeth, and everything is vanity and vexation of spirit.

"They've just run into him at Boxall Springs, Mr. Jones," says a farmer whom he passes on the
road. Boxall Springs is only a quarter of a mile before him, but he wonders how the farmer
has come to know all about it. But on reaching Boxall Springs he finds that the farmer was
right, and that Tom is already breaking up the fox. "Very good thing, Mr. Jones," says the
squire in good humour. Our friend mutters something between his teeth and rides away in dudgeon
from the triumphant master. On his road home he hears all about it from everybody. It seems
to him that he alone of all those who are anybody has missed the run, the run of the season!
"And killed him in the open as you may say," says Smith, who has already twice boasted in Jones's
hearing that he had seen every turn the hounds had made. "It wasn't in the open," says Jones,
reduced in his anger to diminish as far as may be the triumph of his rival.

Such is the fate, the too frequent fate of the man who hunts and does like it.

THE LADY WHO RIDES TO HOUNDS.

Among those who hunt there are two classes of hunting people who always like it, and these
people are hunting parsons and hunting ladies. That it should be so is natural enough. In the
life and habits of parsons and ladies there is much that is antagonistic to hunting, and they
who suppress this antagonism do so because they are Nimrods at heart. But the riding of these
horsemen under difficulties, horsemen and horsewomen, leaves a strong impression on the casual
observer of hunting; for to such an one it seems that the hardest riding is forthcoming exactly
where no hard riding should be expected. On the present occasion I will, if you please, confine
myself to the lady who rides to hounds, and will begin with an assertion, which will not be
contradicted, that the number of such ladies is very much on the increase.

Women who ride, as a rule, ride better than men. They, the women, have always been instructed;
whereas men have usually come to ride without any instruction. They are put upon ponies when
they are all boys, and put themselves upon their fathers' horses as they become hobbledehoys:
and thus they obtain the power of sticking on to the animal while he gallops and jumps, and
even while he kicks and shies; and, so progressing, they achieve an amount of horsemanship
which answers the purposes of life. But they do not acquire the art of riding with exactness,
as women do, and rarely have such hands as a woman has on a horse's mouth. The consequence
of this is that women fall less often than men, and the field is not often thrown into the
horror which would arise were a lady known to be in a ditch with a horse lying on her.

I own that I like to see three or four ladies out in a field, and I like it the better if I
am happy enough to count one or more of them among my own acquaintances. Their presence tends
to take off from hunting that character of horseyness, of both fast horseyness and slow horseyness,
which has become, not unnaturally, attached to it, and to bring it within the category of gentle
sports. There used to prevail an idea that the hunting man was of necessity loud and rough,
given to strong drinks, ill adapted for the poetries of life, and perhaps a little prone to
make money out of his softer friend. It may now be said that this idea is going out of vogue,
and that hunting men are supposed to have that same feeling with regard to their horses, the
same and no more, which ladies have for their carriage or soldiers for their swords. Horses
are valued simply for the services that they can render, and are only valued highly when they
are known to be good servants. That a man may hunt without drinking or swearing, and may possess
a nag or two without any propensity to sell it or them for double their value, is now beginning
to be understood. The oftener that women are to be seen "out," the more will such improved
feelings prevail as to hunting, and the pleasanter will be the field to men who are not horsey,
but who may nevertheless be good horsemen.

There are two classes of women who ride to hounds, or, rather, among many possible classifications,
there are two to which I will now call attention. There is the lady who rides, and demands
assistance; and there is the lady who rides, and demands none. Each always, I may say always,
receives all the assistance that she may require; but the difference between the two, to the
men who ride with them, is very great. It will, of course, be understood that, as to both these
samples of female Nimrods, I speak of ladies who really ride, not of those who grace the coverts
with, and disappear under the auspices of, their papas or their grooms when the work begins.

The lady who rides and demands assistance in truth becomes a nuisance before the run is over,
let her beauty be ever so transcendent, her horsemanship ever-so-perfect, and her battery of
general feminine artillery ever so powerful. She is like the American woman, who is always
wanting your place in a railway carriage, and demanding it, too, without the slightest idea
of paying you for it with thanks; whose study it is to treat you as though she ignored your
existence while she is appropriating your services. The hunting lady who demands assistance
is very particular about her gates, requiring that aid shall be given to her with instant speed,
but that the man who gives it shall never allow himself to be hurried as he renders it. And
she soon becomes reproachful, oh, so soon! It is marvellous to watch the manner in which a
hunting lady will become exacting, troublesome, and at last imperious, deceived and spoilt
by the attention which she receives. She teaches herself to think at last that a man is a brute
who does not ride as though he were riding as her servant, and that it becomes her to assume
indignation if every motion around her is not made with some reference to her safety, to her
comfort, or to her success. I have seen women look as Furies look, and heard them speak as
Furies are supposed to speak, because men before them could not bury themselves and their horses
out of their way at a moment's notice, or because some pulling animal would still assert himself
while they were there, and not sink into submission and dog-like obedience for their behoof.

I have now before my eyes one who was pretty, brave, and a good horse-woman; but how men did
hate her! When you were in a line with her there was no shaking her off. Indeed, you were like
enough to be shaken off yourself, and to be rid of her after that fashion. But while you were
with her you never escaped her at a single fence, and always felt that you were held to be
trespassing against her in some manner. I shall never forget her voice, "Pray, take care of
that gate." And yet it was a pretty voice, and elsewhere she was not given to domineering more
than is common to pretty women in general; but she had been taught badly from the beginning,
and she was a pest. It was the same at every gap. "Might I ask you not to come too near me?"
And yet it was impossible to escape her. Men could not ride wide of her, for she would not
ride wide of them. She had always some male escort with her, who did not ride as she rode,
and consequently, as she chose to have the advantage of an escort, of various escorts, she
was always in the company of some who did not feel as much joy in the presence of a pretty
young woman as men should do under all circumstances. "Might I ask you not to come too near
me?" If she could only have heard the remarks to which this constant little request of hers
gave rise. She is now the mother of children, and her hunting days are gone, and probably she
never makes that little request. Doubtless that look, made up partly of offence and partly
of female dignity, no longer clouds her brow. But I fancy that they who knew her of old in
the hunting field never approach her now without fancying that they hear those reproachful
words, and see that powerful look of injured feminine weakness.

But there is the hunting lady who rides hard and never asks for assistance. Perhaps I may be
allowed to explain to embryo Dianas, to the growing huntresses of the present age, that she
who rides and makes no demand receives attention as close as is ever given to her more imperious
sister. And how welcome she is! What a grace she lends to the day's sport! How pleasant it
is to see her in her pride of place, achieving her mastery over the difficulties in her way
by her own wit, as all men, and all women also, must really do who intend to ride to hounds;
and doing it all without any sign that the difficulties are too great for her!

The lady who rides like this is in truth seldom in the way. I have heard men declare that they
would never wish to see a side-saddle in the field because women are troublesome, and because
they must be treated with attention let the press of the moment be ever so instant. From this
I dissent altogether. The small amount of courtesy that is needed is more than atoned for by
the grace of her presence, and in fact produces no more impediment in the hunting-field than
in other scenes of life. But in the hunting-field, as in other scenes, let assistance never
be demanded by a woman. If the lady finds that she cannot keep a place in the first flight
without such demands on the patience of those around her, let her acknowledge to herself that
the attempt is not in her line, and that it should be abandoned. If it be the ambition of a
hunting lady to ride straight, and women have very much of this ambition, let her use her eyes
but never her voice; and let her ever have a smile for those who help her in her little difficulties.
Let her never ask any one "to take care of that gate," or look as though she expected the profane
crowd to keep aloof from her. So shall she win the hearts of those around her, and go safely
through brake and brier, over ditch and dyke, and meet with a score of knights around her who
will be willing and able to give her eager aid should the chance of any moment require it.

