On the 11th day of July, 1859, my Document, entitled: "Great News for the Friends of Progression
in Truth and Righteousness towards the promised New Era of Harmony and Peace amongst all nations"
was set in type, the proof-sheet corrected by me, and a portion of copies struck off on the
same day. We were preparing readers for the first convention which will be held in the New
Hall on the Peace Union settlement in the latter part of the next month, and requesting Editors
to publish that Document. But I think that the warlike spirit of destruction kept most of them
in the servitude of monarchs. But that document was to be set in type and printed on the same
day, on which Napoleon and Francis Joseph made their treaty of peace at Villafranca for an
important testimony, that spirits from our sphere have controlled the affairs also there, so
that if you hurry to do what is required in this book, you will prevent immense destruction
of human life and property in this country, otherwise you should know that I have done more
than from a mortal man could be expected, to move you for action. But when men become such
beasts that they have no sense for spiritual things, destruction is a necessary consequence.
At the commencement of the first treatise page 6 you see that Mr. Belly gave occasion to that
treatise. Last month he came again to Paris and remains there according to newspapers until
the 20th of the next month; and I proposed that on the same day our first convention should
commence in the New Hall. We quote from said document in which the title of this book is copied,
the close as follows: "The book with the above copied title will be published by Robert D.
Eldrige in our Convention, and then copies will be sent by him to those who send to him the
money (50 cents fur one copy, twenty dollars for 50 copies, 35 dollars for 100 copies) either
before or after or at the Convention. He being a man of property and known as our trusty fellow
labourer for improving the condition of mankind, has charge of the business department at our
Peace Union, while, I the writer of this book and of this article am bound to devote my precious
time to spiritual objects for Harmony and Peace of Nations, requesting to direct letters which
do not belong particularly to my sphere, to him under the direction: Robert D. Eldrige, Donnally's
Mill, Perry Co: Pa." This book appears small for this price; but remember the contents of page
169, and collect subscribers, and as soon as we print the second edition, we will send a large
pamphlet as supplement without additional charge. In the mean time we assure you that also
this small book contains so large an amount of most important points for you, that the oftener
you study it, the more you will learn to appreciate its value; and the enormous labour for
obtaining all the parts contained in this book cannot be paid with money, and my labour never
was paid.

On the 11th of this month, August, 1859, there came many people to Springhill. An extraordinary
medium who had been in England an Elder amongst the Baptisers wrote on the 13th Instant to
me: "I came on foot to Springhill, Peace Union Centre, a long walk of about 17 miles in hot
weather. We raised the frame work of the Large Hall. The day (11th inst.) was fine, and all
things went on well, and the work that is done, looks well and in good order. All kinds of
rumors and talk: What the house is for? What they will do? Why did they not build so as the
Hall could be seen? Some one thing, some, other things, &c."

     The Periodical, entitled: "Peace Union Message." Conventions at the
     Peace Union Centre in Springhill Toscarora Township, Perry Co: Pa.
     6 miles west of Millerstown, the stopping place for the Cars.

Our Periodical, spoken of in the plan, will be published as soon, as there will be a sufficient
number of subscribers. In the expectation that those who are versed in English, will comprehend
us first, we will publish it first in English, in Quarto, to be preserved in books and translated
in as many other languages as needed; because it will contain social, ecclesiastical and political
matters and movements of nations and daily news of importance, considered from our position,
to draw nations from the existing confusion and degradation into the new order of things. All
that will improve the condition of mankind, and what is hurtful for them, as far as we will
have opportunity[AE] to reach it, will be examined from our position. But there not being room
in this book, we will publish in the first number which will issue, when we are secured by
subscriptions, what we will find proper to draw those amongst all nations who have somewhat
new for improving mankind, to send it for publication in our Periodical. Every one who sends
somewhat of this kind, will add his full direction and occupation. If his or her communication
is found by those whom we find to be competent judges in that branch, to be such as required,
it will be published when room will be for it in our Periodical. But if it is not found such
as to be published, the writer will be named and the reason given, why it cannot be published.
If the writer should think to have been injured, our Periodical would be open to publish his
complaint with the preliminary requisites which will be made known in our first number as quite
reasonable to save time to him and us and to the readers as well as to the printers and others.
I quoted purposely some passages from the letter of our friend Peter assuring that he is ours
truly "in bonds for truth waiting for deliverance." If the talkers of nonsense had asked those
to whom we told, why we selected that place for that building, near the farm house and the
springs, they had received information. The basement of the new building is a large cellar,
the first story a large Hall, having in the midst a partition, which we remove when we use
the whole Hall, but the second story has a partition which cannot be removed and each department
has its own stairs. The farm house and the new building are in a cove. The first story of the
building will be provisionally[AF] used for our Conventions, till the substantial edifice within
the most magnificent fairview will be established. With this fairview we entreat most earnestly
every reader to collect as many subscribers for this book as well as for the Periodical, as
he or she is able to collect. The book is to be paid for at the delivery, and the Periodical
will cost $2 a year, money to be paid for half a year or a year at the delivery of the first
number.

Whoever secures us five subscribers receives six copies. And those who will act as agents,
after having comprehended by studying this book our plan and adopt it, are regarded as our
fellow-laborers, when they show practically that they belong to our Peace-Union. If the expected
exertions are made, we may be able to publish the first number of our Periodical at the commencement
of the year 1860.

Our first Convention next month at the Peace Union Centre is announced in our Circular. But
readers of this book are requested to proclaim, that on the first day of November 1859, the
second Convention will commence and continue for two weeks, and that only those persons of
both sexes are invited to attend, who after having comprehended our mission are ready to act
as missionaries or to support with their means our enterprises to establish what is needed
at the Centre. And for this purpose we intend to hold successively a number of Conventions.
The second could be attended by those who belong to the Cabinet and the Congress of Washington,
or to any legislature. Each Convention will last one or two weeks. Those who comprehend this
book will tell or write to those with whom they are acquainted, that although the contents
of this book are of importance for any body, those who belong to the Government need most to
understand them. This book will be taken as the text-book, but also those who may have read
it before many times, will receive in the Convention new light to understand it better and
to hear many things which are not mentioned in the book. There may be so many aroused to attend
the Convention that all could not be accommodated. Therefore whoever and whenever he determines
to attend one of our Conventions, he is requested to write directly, and to give an exact direction,
and put a letter stamp into his letter, and we will answer it, and tell, whether he could be
accommodated in that or in any of the following Conventions. Boarding is to be had as moderately
as we can afford it. The rule is to be observed also afterwards in this and in the next year,
that whoever wishes to attend our Convention, is requested to write directly, and he will receive
an answer when he could be accommodated. Answer may come sooner or later, because it may depend
upon circumstances, when after the receipt of his or her letter our next Convention would be
held. Probably there is in this last "form" no room, to say more than that our Post-Office
address is on the title-page and also three or four pages before this. It has been said that
the stopping place for the cars is Millerstown, Perry Co.: Pa. I desire nothing more than to
draw you into the sphere of our Heavenly abode as your sincere brother.

ANDREW B. SMOLNIKAR.

Remark. I perused 192 pages of this book while the last form was in composition, and found
a moderate number of errata as may be easily corrected by the reader; for instance, he may
connect himself in the 7th line of the "Preliminary Remarks" the two particles IN TO in one
word, and he may separate where he finds two words close together and change C and E, also
N and U and some other letters when required, or add when a letter is omitted, or cast it out
when it is superabundant. Such trifles will not trouble those who are anxious to learn to understand
this book, nor if they read sometimes CONNEXION and other times CONNECTION, I always write
CONNEXION; but I was assured, that according to the present fashion CONNECTION is more used,
although this use is irregular.

