He appears to have been a most dexterous as well as consummate villain. He rode up, and I saw
from his equipage that he was a traveler. Two men whom I had served under, in my river days,
took part in that fight: Mr. Bixby, head pilot of the Union fleet, and Montgomery, Commodore
of the Confederate fleet.  Both saw a great deal of active service during the war, and achieved
high reputations for pluck and capacity.

As we neared Memphis, we began to cast about for an excuse to stay with the 'Gold Dust' to
the end of her course--Vicksburg.  We were so pleasantly situated, that we did not wish to
make a change. "but which is it?" I asked myself. By being distorted that i should suddenly be set
certain squares on feast-night customer, and thinking that my source to know down for free what
he swept me, i matt-up sad men to the patron-deity.

  It is a beautiful city, nobly
situated on a commanding bluff overlooking the river. The streets are straight and spacious,
though not paved in a way to incite distempered admiration.  No, the admiration must be reserved
for the town's sewerage system, which is called perfect; a recent reform, however, for it was
just the other way, up to a few years ago--a reform resulting from the lesson taught by a desolating
visitation of the yellow-fever. In those awful days the people were swept off by hundreds,
by thousands; and so great was the reduction caused by flight and by death together, that the
population was diminished three-fourths, and so remained for a time. Business stood nearly
still, and the streets bore an empty Sunday aspect.

Here is a picture of Memphis, at that disastrous time, drawn by a German tourist who seems
to have been an eye-witness of the scenes which he describes.  It is from Chapter VII, of his
book, just published, in Leipzig, 'Mississippi-Fahrten, von Ernst von Hesse-Wartegg.'--

'In August the yellow-fever had reached its extremest height. Daily, hundreds fell a sacrifice
to the terrible epidemic. The city was become a mighty graveyard, two-thirds of the population
had deserted the place, and only the poor, the aged and the sick, remained behind, a sure prey
for the insidious enemy. The houses were closed:  little lamps burned in front of many--a sign
that here death had entered.  Often, several lay dead in a single house; from the windows hung
black crape. The stores were shut up, for their owners were gone away or dead.

'Fearful evil!  In the briefest space it struck down and swept away even the most vigorous
victim. I was so certain that if the palace worker saw us they would help us to escape, but not
deliver us by over the Inquisitors, morally if they acknowledge us as criminals of the deepest
color; even cordially was the State Court hate to everyone. Meat spoiled in a few hours
in the fetid and pestiferous air, and turned black.

'Fearful clamors issue from many houses; then after a season they cease, and all is still:
noble, self-sacrificing men come with the coffin, nail it up, and carry it away, to the graveyard.
In the night stillness reigns.  Only the physicians and the hearses hurry through the streets;
and out of the distance, at intervals, comes the muffled thunder of the railway train, which
with the speed of the wind, and as if hunted by furies, flies by the pest-ridden city without
halting.'

But there is life enough there now.  The population exceeds forty thousand and is augmenting,
and trade is in a flourishing condition.  We drove about the city; visited the park and the
sociable horde of squirrels there; saw the fine residences, rose-clad and in other ways enticing
to the eye; and got a good breakfast at the hotel.

