  (2) Distortions of Memory:--Transformation of past through
  forgetfulness, 261-264; confusion of distinct recollections, 264-266;
  Active Illusion: influence of present imaginative activity, 266-269;
  exaggeration in recollections of remote experiences, 269, 270; action of
  present feeling in transforming past, 270, 271.

  (3) Hallucinations of Memory:--Their nature, 271-273; past dreams taken
  for external experiences, 273-277; past waking imagination taken
  for external reality, 277-280; recollection of prenatal ancestral
  experience, 280, 281; filling up gaps in recollection, 281-283.
  Illusions connected with, Personal Identity:--Illusions of Memory and
  Sense of identity, 283, 284; idea of permanent self, how built up,
  285-287; disturbances of sense of identity, 287-290; fallibility and
  trustworthiness of Memory, 290-292.

  NOTE.--Momentary Illusions of Self-consciousness, 293.

  CHAPTER XI.

  ILLUSIONS OF BELIEF.

  Belief as Immediate or Intuitive, 294-296; simple and compound
  Belief, 296.

  A. Simple Illusory Belief:--

      (1) Expectation: its nature, 297, 298; Is Expectation ever intuitive?
        298; Expectation and Inference from the past, 299-301; Expectation
        of new kinds of experience, 301, 302; Permanent Expectations
        of remote events, 302; misrepresentation of future duration,
        302-305; Imaginative transformation of future, 305-307.

      (2) Quasi-Expectations: anticipation of extra-personal experiences,
        307, 308; Retrospective Beliefs, 308-312.

  B. Compound Illusory Belief:--

      (1) Representations of permanent things: their structure, 312; our
        representations of others as illusory, 312-315; our representation
        of ourselves as illusory, 315; Illusion of self-esteem, 316-318;
        genesis of illusory opinion of self, 318-322; Illusion in our
        representations of classes of things, 322, 323; and in our views
        of the world as a whole, 323, 324; tendency of belief towards
        divergence, 325; and towards convergence, 326, 327.

  CHAPTER XII.

  RESULTS.

  Range of Illusion, 328-330; nature and causes of Illusion in general,
    331-334; Illusion identical with Fallacy, 334; Illusion as abnormal,
    336, 337; question of common error, 337-339; evolutionist's conception
    of error as maladaptation, 339-344; common intuitions
    tested only by philosophy, 344; assumptions of science respecting
    external reality, etc., 344-346; philosophic investigation of these
    assumptions, 346-348; connection between scientific and philosophic
    consideration of Illusion, 348-350; correction of Illusion and its
    implications, 351, 352; Fundamental Intuitions and modern psychology,
    352; psychology as positive science and as philosophy, 353-355;
    points of resemblance between acknowledged Illusions and Fundamental
    Intuitions, 355, 356; question of origin, and question of
    validity, 356, 357; attitude of scientific mind towards philosophic
    scepticism, 357-360; Persistent Intuitions must be taken as true,
    360, 361.

~ILLUSIONS.~

CHAPTER I.

THE STUDY OF ILLUSION.

Common sense, knowing nothing of fine distinctions, is wont to draw a sharp line between the
region of illusion and that of sane intelligence. To be the victim of an illusion is, in the
popular judgment, to be excluded from the category of rational men. The term at once calls
up images of stunted figures with ill-developed brains, half-witted creatures, hardly distinguishable
from the admittedly insane. And this way of thinking of illusion and its subjects is strengthened
by one of the characteristic sentiments of our age. The nineteenth century intelligence plumes
itself on having got at the bottom of mediæval visions and church miracles, and it is wont
to commiserate the feeble minds that are still subject to these self-deceptions.

According to this view, illusion is something essentially abnormal and allied to insanity.
And it would seem to follow that its nature and origin can be best studied by those whose speciality
it is to observe the phenomena of abnormal life. Scientific procedure has in the main conformed
to this distinction of common sense. The phenomena of illusion have ordinarily been investigated
by alienists, that is to say, physicians who are brought face to face with their most striking
forms in the mentally deranged.

While there are very good reasons for this treatment of illusion as a branch of mental pathology,
it is by no means certain that it can be a complete and exhaustive one. Notwithstanding the
flattering supposition of common sense, that illusion is essentially an incident in abnormal
life, the careful observer knows well enough that the case is far otherwise.

There is, indeed, a view of our race diametrically opposed to the flattering opinion referred
to above, namely, the humiliating judgment that all men habitually err, or that illusion is
to be regarded as the natural condition of mortals. This idea has found expression, not only
in the cynical exclamation of the misanthropist that most men are fools, but also in the cry
of despair that sometimes breaks from the weary searcher after absolute truth, and from the
poet when impressed with the unreality of his early ideals.

Without adopting this very disparaging opinion of the intellectual condition of mankind, we
must recognize the fact that most men are sometimes liable to illusion. Hardly anybody is always
consistently sober and rational in his perceptions and beliefs. A momentary fatigue of the
nerves, a little mental excitement, a relaxation of the effort of attention by which we continually
take our bearings with respect to the real world about us, will produce just the same kind
of confusion of reality and phantasm, which we observe in the insane. To give but an example:
the play of fancy which leads to a detection of animal and other forms in clouds, is known
to be an occupation of the insane, and is rightly made use of by Shakespeare as a mark of incipient
mental aberration in Hamlet; and yet this very same occupation is quite natural to children,
and to imaginative adults when they choose to throw the reins on the neck of their phantasy.
Our luminous circle of rational perception is surrounded by a misty penumbra of illusion. Common
sense itself may be said to admit this, since the greatest stickler for the enlightenment of
our age will be found in practice to accuse most of his acquaintance at some time or another
of falling into illusion.

If illusion thus has its roots in ordinary mental life, the study of it would seem to belong
to the physiology as much as to the pathology of mind. We may even go further, and say that
in the analysis and explanation of illusion the psychologist may be expected to do more than
the physician. If, on the one hand, the latter has the great privilege of observing the phenomena
in their highest intensity, on the other hand, the former has the advantage of being familiar
with the normal intellectual process which all illusion simulates or caricatures. To this it
must be added that the physician is naturally disposed to look at illusion mainly, if not exclusively,
on its practical side, that is, as a concomitant and symptom of cerebral disease, which it
is needful to be able to recognize. The psychologist has a different interest in the subject,
being specially concerned to understand the mental antecedents of illusion and its relation
to accurate perception and belief. It is pretty evident, indeed, that the phenomena of illusion
form a region common to the psychologist and the mental pathologist, and that the complete
elucidation of the subject will need the co-operation of the two classes of investigator.

In the present volume an attempt will be made to work out the psychological side of the subject;
that is to say, illusions will be viewed in their relation to the process of just and accurate
perception. In the carrying out of this plan our principal attention will be given to the manifestations
of the illusory impulse in normal life. At the same time, though no special acquaintance with
the pathology of the subject will be laid claim to, frequent references will be made to the
illusions of the insane. Indeed, it will be found that the two groups of phenomena--the illusions
of the normal and of the abnormal condition--are so similar, and pass into one another by such
insensible gradations, that it is impossible to discuss the one apart from the other. The view
of illusion which will be adopted in this work is that it constitutes a kind of border-land
between perfectly sane and vigorous mental life and dementia.

And here at once there forces itself on our attention the question, What exactly is to be understood
by the term "illusion"? In scientific works treating of the pathology of the subject, the word
is confined to what are specially known as illusions of the senses, that is to say, to false
or illusory perceptions. And there is very good reason for this limitation, since such illusions
of the senses are the most palpable and striking symptoms of mental disease. In addition to
this, it must be allowed that, to the ordinary reader, the term first of all calls up this
same idea of a deception of the senses.

At the same time, popular usage has long since extended the term so as to include under it
errors which do not counterfeit actual perceptions. We commonly speak of a man being under
an illusion respecting himself when he has a ridiculously exaggerated view of his own importance,
and in a similar way of a person being in a state of illusion with respect to the past when,
through frailty of memory, he pictures it quite otherwise than it is certainly known to have been.

It will be found, I think, that there is a very good reason for this popular extension of the
term. The errors just alluded to have this in common with illusions of sense, that they simulate
the form of immediate or self-evident cognition. An idea held respecting ourselves or respecting
our past history does not depend on any other piece of knowledge; in other words, is not adopted
as the result of a process of reasoning. What I believe with reference to my past history,
so far as I can myself recall it, I believe instantaneously and immediately, without the intervention
of any premise or reason. Similarly, our notions of ourselves are, for the most part, obtained
apart from any process of inference. The view which a man takes of his own character or claims
on society he is popularly supposed to receive intuitively by a mere act of internal observation.
Such beliefs may not, indeed, have all the overpowering force which belongs to illusory perceptions,
for the intuition of something by the senses is commonly looked on as the most immediate and
irresistible kind of knowledge. Still, they must be said to come very near illusions of sense
in the degree of their self-evident certainty.

Taking this view of illusion, we may provisionally define it as any species of error which
counterfeits the form of immediate, self-evident, or intuitive knowledge, whether as sense-perception
or otherwise. Whenever a thing is believed on its own evidence and not as a conclusion from
something else, and the thing then believed is demonstrably wrong, there is an illusion. The
term would thus appear to cover all varieties of error which are not recognized as fallacies
or false inferences. If for the present we roughly divide all our knowledge into the two regions
of primary or intuitive, and secondary or inferential knowledge, we see that illusion is false
or spurious knowledge of the first kind, fallacy false or spurious knowledge of the second
kind. At the same time, it is to be remembered that this division is only a very rough one.
As will appear in the course of our investigation, the same error may be called either a fallacy
or an illusion, according as we are thinking of its original mode of production or of the form
which it finally assumes; and a thorough-going psychological analysis of error may discover
that these two classes are at bottom very similar.

As we proceed, we shall, I think, find an ample justification for our definition. We shall
see that such illusions as those respecting ourselves or the past arise by very much the same
mental processes as those which are discoverable in the production of illusory perceptions;
and thus a complete psychology of the one class will, at the same time, contain the explanation
of the other classes.

The reader is doubtless aware that philosophers have still further extended the idea of illusion
by seeking to bring under it beliefs which the common sense of mankind has always adopted and
never begun to suspect. Thus, according to the idealist, the popular notion (the existence
of which Berkeley, however, denied) of an external world, existing in itself and in no wise
dependent on our perceptions of it, resolves itself into a grand illusion of sense.

At the close of our study of illusions we shall return to this point. We shall there inquire
into the connection between those illusions which are popularly recognized as such, and those
which first come into view or appear to do so (for we must not yet assume that there are such)
after a certain kind of philosophic reflection. And some attempt will be made to determine
roughly how far the process of dissolving these substantial beliefs of mankind into airy phantasms
may venture to go.

For the present, however, these so-called illusions in philosophy will be ignored. It is plain
that illusion exists only in antithesis to real knowledge. This last must be assumed as something
above all question. And a rough and provisional, though for our purpose sufficiently accurate,
demarcation of the regions of the real and the illusory seems to coincide with the line which
common sense draws between what all normal men agree in holding and what the individual holds,
whether temporarily or permanently, in contradiction to this. For our present purpose the real
is that which is true for all. Thus, though physical science may tell us that there is nothing
corresponding to our sensations of colour in the world of matter and motion which it conceives
as surrounding us; yet, inasmuch as to all men endowed with the normal colour-sense the same
material objects appear to have the same colour, we may speak of any such perception as practically
true, marking it off from those plainly illusory perceptions which are due to some subjective
cause, as, for example, fatigue of the retina.

To sum up: in treating of illusions we shall assume, what science as distinguished from philosophy
is bound to assume, namely, that human experience is consistent; that men's perceptions and
beliefs fall into a consensus. From this point of view illusion is seen to arise through some
exceptional feature in the situation or condition of the individual, which, for the time, breaks
the chain of intellectual solidarity which under ordinary circumstances binds the single member
to the collective body. Whether the common experience which men thus obtain is rightly interpreted
is a question which does not concern us here. For our present purpose, which is the determination
and explanation of illusion as popularly understood, it is sufficient that there is this general
consensus of belief, and this may provisionally be regarded as at least practically true.

CHAPTER II.

THE CLASSIFICATION OF ILLUSIONS.

If illusion is the simulation of immediate knowledge, the most obvious mode of classifying
illusions would appear to be according to the variety of the knowledge which they simulate.

Now, the popular psychology that floats about in the ordinary forms of language has long since
distinguished certain kinds of unreasoned or uninferred knowledge. Of these the two best known
are perception and memory. When I see an object before me, or when I recall an event in my
past experience, I am supposed to grasp a piece of knowledge directly, to know something immediately,
and not through the medium of something else. Yet I know differently in the two cases. In the
first I know by what is called a presentative process, namely, that of sense-perception; in
the second I know by a representative process, namely, that of reproduction, or on the evidence
of memory. In the one case the object of cognition is present to my perceptive faculties; in
the other it is recalled by the power of memory.

Scientific psychology tends, no doubt, to break down some of these popular distinctions. Just
as the zoologist sometimes groups together varieties of animals which the unscientific eye
would never think of connecting, so the psychologist may analyze mental operations which appear
widely dissimilar to the popular mind, and reduce them to one fundamental process. Thus recent
psychology draws no sharp distinction between perception and recollection. It finds in both
very much the same elements, though combined in a different way. Strictly speaking, indeed,
perception must be defined as a presentative-representative operation. To the psychologist
it comes to very much the same thing whether, for example, on a visit to Switzerland, our minds
are occupied in perceiving the distance of a mountain or in remembering some pleasant excursion
which we made to it on a former visit. In both cases there is a reinstatement of the past,
a reproduction of earlier experience, a process of adding to a present impression a product
of imagination--taking this word in its widest sense. In both cases the same laws of reproduction
or association are illustrated.

Just as a deep and exhaustive analysis of the intellectual operations thus tends to identify
their various forms as they are distinguished by the popular mind, so a thorough investigation
of the flaws in these operations, that is to say, the counterfeits of knowledge, will probably
lead to an identification of the essential mental process which underlies them. It is apparent,
for example, that, whether a man projects some figment of his imagination into the external
world, giving it, present material reality, or whether (if I may be allowed the term) he retrojects
it into the dim region of the past, and takes it for a reality that has been he is committing
substantially the same blunder. The source of the illusion in both cases is one and the same.

It might seem to follow from this that a scientific discussion of the subject would overlook
the obvious distinction between illusions of perception and those of memory; that it would
attend simply to differences in the mode of origination of the illusion, whatever its external
form. Our next step, then, would appear to be to determine these differences in the mode of
production.

That there are differences in the origin and source of illusion is a fact which has been fully
recognized by those writers who have made a special study of sense-illusions. By these the
term illusion is commonly employed in a narrow, technical sense, and opposed to hallucination.
An illusion, it is said, must always have its starting-point in some actual impression, whereas
a hallucination has no such basis. Thus it is an illusion when a man, under the action of terror,
takes a stump of a tree, whitened by the moon's rays, for a ghost. It is a hallucination when
an imaginative person so vividly pictures to himself the form of some absent friend that, for
the moment, he fancies himself actually beholding him. Illusion is thus a partial displacement
of external fact by a fiction of the imagination, while hallucination is a total displacement.

This distinction, which has been adopted by the majority of recent alienists[1], is a valuable
one, and must not be lost sight of here. It would seem, from a psychological point of view,
to be an important circumstance in the genesis of a false perception whether the intellectual
process sets out from within or from without. And it will be found, moreover, that this distinction
may be applied to all the varieties of error which I propose to consider. Thus, for example,
it will be seen further on that a false recollection may set out either from the idea of some
actual past occurrence or from a present product of the imagination.

It is to be observed, however, that the line of separation between illusion and hallucination,
as thus defined, is a very narrow one. In by far the largest number of hallucinations it is
impossible to prove that there is no modicum of external agency co-operating in the production
of the effect. It is presumable, indeed, that many, if not all, hallucinations have such a
basis of fact. Thus, the madman who projects his internal thoughts outwards in the shape of
external voices may, for aught we know, be prompted to do so in part by faint impressions coming
from the ear, the result of those slight stimulations to which the organ is always exposed,
even in profound silence, and which in his case assume an exaggerated intensity. And even if
it is clearly made out that there are hallucinations in the strict sense, that is to say, false
perceptions which are wholly due to internal causes, it must be conceded that illusion shades
off into hallucination by steps which it is impossible for science to mark. In many cases it
must be left an open question whether the error is to be classed as an illusion or as a hallucination.[2]

For these reasons, I think it best not to make the distinction between illusion and hallucination
the leading principle of my classification. However important psychologically, it does not
lend itself to this purpose. The distinction must be kept in view and illustrated as far as
possible. Accordingly, while in general following popular usage and employing the term illusion
as the generic name, I shall, when convenient, recognize the narrow and technical sense of
the term as answering to a species co-ordinate with hallucination.

Departing, then, from what might seem the ideally best order of exposition, I propose, after
all, to set out with the simple popular scheme of faculties already referred to. Even if they
are, psychologically considered, identical operations, perception and memory are in general
sufficiently marked off by a speciality in the form of the operation. Thus, while memory is
the reproduction of something with a special reference of consciousness to its past existence,
perception is the reproduction of something with a special reference to its present existence
as a part of the presented object. In other words, though largely representative when viewed
as to its origin, perception is presentative in relation to the object which is supposed to
be immediately present to the mind at the moment.[3] Hence the convenience of recognizing the
popular classification, and of making it our starting-point in the present case.

All knowledge which has any appearance of being directly reached, immediate, or self-evident,
that is to say, of not being inferred from other knowledge, may be divided into four principal
varieties: Internal Perception or Introspection of the mind's own feelings; External Perception;
Memory; and Belief, in so far as it simulates the form of direct knowledge. The first is illustrated
in a man's consciousness of a present feeling of pain or pleasure. The second and the third
kinds have already been spoken of, and are too familiar to require illustration. It is only
needful to remark here that, under perception, or rather in close conjunction with it, I purpose
dealing with the knowledge of other's feelings, in so far as this assumes the aspect of immediate
knowledge. The term belief is here used to include expectations and any other kinds of conviction
that do not fall under one of the other heads. An instance of a seemingly immediate belief
would be a prophetic prevision of a coming disaster, or a man's unreasoned persuasion as to
his own powers of performing a difficult task.

It is, indeed, said by many thinkers that there are no legitimate immediate beliefs; that all
our expectations and other convictions about things, in so far as they are sound, must repose
on other genuinely immediate knowledge, more particularly sense-perception and memory. This
difficult question need not be discussed here. It is allowed by all that there is a multitude
of beliefs which we hold tenaciously and on which we are ready to act, which, to the mature
mind, wear the appearance of intuitive truths, owing their cogency to nothing beyond themselves.
A man's belief in his own merits, however it may have been first obtained, is as immediately
assured to him as his recognition of a real object in the act of sense-perception. It may be
added that many of our every-day working beliefs about the world in which we live, though presumably
derived from memory and perception, tend to lose all traces of their origin, and to simulate
the aspect of intuitions. Thus the proposition that logicians are in the habit of pressing
on our attention, that "Men are mortal," seems, on the face of it, to common sense to be something
very like a self-evident truth, not depending on any particular facts of experience.

In calling these four forms of cognition immediate, I must not, however, be supposed to be
placing them on the same logical level. It is plain, indeed, to a reflective mind that, though
each may be called immediate in this superficial sense, there are perceptible differences in
the degree of their immediacy. Thus it is manifest, after a moment's reflection, that expectation,
so far as it is just, is not primarily immediate in the sense in which purely presentative
knowledge is so, since it can be shown to follow from something else. So a general proposition,
though through familiarity and innumerable illustrations it has acquired a self-evident character,
is seen with a very little inspection to be less fundamentally and essentially so than the
proposition, "I am now feeling pain;" and it will be found that even with respect to memory,
when the remembered event is at all remote, the process of cognition approximates to a mediate
operation, namely, one of inference. What the relative values of these different kinds of immediate
knowledge are is a point which will have to be touched on at the end of our study. Here it
must suffice to warn the reader against the supposition that this value is assumed to be identical.

It might seem at a first glance to follow from this four-fold scheme of immediate or quasi-immediate
knowledge that there are four varieties of illusion. And this is true in the sense that these
four heads cover all the main varieties of illusion. If there are only four varieties of knowledge
which can lay any claim to be considered immediate, it must be that every illusion will simulate
the form of one of these varieties, and so be referable to the corresponding division.

But though there are conceivably these four species of illusion, it does not follow that there
are any actual instances of each class forthcoming. This we cannot determine till we have investigated
the nature and origin of illusory error. For example, it might be found that introspection,
or the immediate inspection of our own feelings or mental states, does not supply the conditions
necessary to the production of such error. And, indeed, it is probable that most persons, antecedently
to inquiry, would be disposed to say that to fall into error in the observation of what is
actually going on in our own minds is impossible.

With the exception of this first division, however, this scheme may easily be seen to answer
to actual phenomena. That there are illusions of perception is obvious, since it is to the
errors of sense that the term illusion has most frequently been confined. It is hardly less
evident that there are illusions of memory. The peculiar difficulty of distinguishing between
a past real event and a mere phantom of the imagination, illustrated in the exclamation, "I
either saw it or dreamt it," sufficiently shows that memory is liable to be imposed on. Finally,
it is agreed on by all that the beliefs we are wont to regard as self-evident are sometimes
erroneous. When, for example, an imaginative woman says she knows, by mere intuition, that
something interesting is going to happen, say the arrival of a favourite friend, she is plainly
running the risk of being self-deluded. So, too, a man's estimate of himself, however valid
for him, may turn out to be flagrantly false.

In the following discussion of the subject I shall depart from the above order in so far as
to set out with illusions of sense-perception. These are well ascertained, forming, indeed,
the best-marked variety. And the explanation of these has been carried much further than that
of the others. Hence, according to the rule to proceed from the known to the unknown, there
will be an obvious convenience in examining these first of all. After having done this, we
shall be in a position to inquire whether there is anything analogous in the region of introspection
or internal perception. Our study of the errors of sense-perception will, moreover, prove the
best preparation for an inquiry into the nature and mode of production of the remaining two
varieties.[4]

I would add that, in close connection with the first division, illusions of perception, I shall
treat the subtle and complicated phenomena of dreams. Although containing elements which ought,
according to strictness, to be brought under one of the other heads, they are, as their common
appellation, "visions," shows, largely simulations of external, and more especially visual,
perception.

Dreams are no doubt sharply marked off from illusions of sense-perception by a number of special
circumstances. Indeed, it may be thought that they cannot be adequately treated in a work that
aims primarily at investigating the illusions of normal life, and should rather be left to
those who make the pathological side of the subject their special study. Yet it may, perhaps,
be said that in a wide sense dreams are a feature of normal life. And, however this be, they
have quite enough in common with other illusions of perception to justify us in dealing with
them in close connection with these.

CHAPTER III.

ILLUSIONS OF PERCEPTION: GENERAL.

The errors with which we shall be concerned in this chapter are those which are commonly denoted
by the term illusion, that is to say, those of sense. They are sometimes called deceptions
of the senses; but this is a somewhat loose expression, suggesting that we can be deceived
as to sensation itself, though, as we shall see later on, this is only true in a very restricted
meaning of the phrase. To speak correctly, sense-illusions must be said to arise by a simulation
of the form of just and accurate perceptions. Accordingly, we shall most frequently speak of
them as illusions of perception.

In order to investigate the nature of any kind of error, it is needful to understand the kind
of knowledge it imitates, and so we must begin our inquiry into the nature of illusions of
sense by a brief account of the psychology of perception; and, in doing this, we shall proceed
best by regarding this operation in its most complete form, namely, that of visual perception.

I may observe that in this analysis of perception I shall endeavour to keep to known facts,
namely, the psychical phenomena or events which can be seen by the methods of scientific psychology
to enter into the mental content called the percept. I do not now inquire whether such an analysis
can help us to understand all that is meant by perception. This point will have to be touched
later on. Here it is enough to say that, whatever our philosophy of perception may be, we must
accept the psychological fact that the concrete mental state in the act of perception is built
up out of elements, the history of which can be traced by the methods of mental science.

Psychology of Perception.

Confining ourselves for the present to the mental, as distinguished from the physical, side
of the operation, we soon find that perception is not so simple a matter as it might at first
seem to be. When a man on a hot day looks at a running stream and "sees" the delicious coolness,
it is not difficult to show that he is really performing an act of mental synthesis, or imaginative
construction. To the sense-impression[5] which his eye now gives him, he adds something which
past experience has bequeathed to his mind. In perception, the material of sensation is acted
on by the mind, which embodies in its present attitude all the results of its past growth.
Let us look at this process of synthesis a little more closely.

When a sensation arises in the mind, it may, under certain circumstances, go unattended to.
In that case there is no perception. The sensation floats in the dim outer regions of consciousness
as a vague feeling, the real nature and history of which are unknown. This remark applies not
only to the undefined bodily sensations that are always oscillating about the threshold of
obscure consciousness, but to the higher sensations connected with the special organs of perception.
The student in optics soon makes the startling discovery that his field of vision has all through
his life been haunted with weird shapes which have never troubled the serenity of his mind
just because they have never been distinctly attended to.

The immediate result of this process of directing the keen glance of attention to a sensation
is to give it greater force and distinctness. By attending to it we discriminate it from other
feelings present and past, and classify it with like sensations previously received. Thus,
if I receive a visual impression of the colour orange, the first consequence of attending to
it is to mark it off from other colour-impressions, including those of red and yellow. And
in recognizing the peculiar quality of the impression by applying to it the term orange, I
obviously connect it with other similar sensations called by the same name. If a sensation
is perfectly new, there cannot, of course, be this process of classifying, and in this case
the closely related operation of discriminating it from other sensations is less exactly performed.
But it is hardly necessary to remark that, in the mind of the adult, under ordinary circumstances,
no perfectly new sensation ever occurs.

