They were impatient to overrun the land. Now the air-spies reported that but a small army had
massed to meet the intruders, and that back of their ranks the inhabitants were peacefully
at work gathering in the harvest. This seemed incredible. Then King Theophile gave his command
to the army, "March forward"; and to the air-spies, "Fly on and drop burning brands on the fields."

The army immediately set out. Far away the air-spies were seen beating the air like black rooks,
but strangely enough they always remained in sight and seemed to get no further. At last they
went high up into the clouds and disappeared.

But the soldiers pressed on joyfully, for the sweet odors of vineyard and garden grew ever
more ravishing; and now the land lay at their feet in a shimmering haze, through which the
forests rose like deep cool islands with here and there a red roof, or a white church spire
to tell of human habitation. And up through the haze like released spirits in paradise came
with soft, steady motion, phalanxes of soldiers smiling.

"By my sword that never sleeps," cried King Theophile, "their faces shall be gray ere nightfall,
and they shall smile no more."

Then all his soldiers made their swords sing and flash like waving grain of death; and they
chanted together a song without joy. Suddenly the black dam of their war fury broke and, with
the wild roar of an untamed cataract, they swept forward towards these still and smiling knights,
with King Theophile on a high dark horse at their head.

In his rage of conquest he dug his golden spurs into his horse's side, and the beast with quivering
nostrils, leaped through space, then suddenly paused, quivering; nor could cry, or whip, or
spur move him. Then King Theophile leaped down and rushed forward to see what was frightening
the animal; and all at once he crashed against something hard, and his broken right arm fell
to his side. He grew gray, not with pain but with sheer terror, for he could see nothing, yet
his arm had been broken upon a substance that felt like granite.

As he gazed wildly about him, he saw the first phalanx of his army pitch back with bleeding
foreheads; and their eyes rolled in amazement, for they could see nothing, yet they had driven
themselves against stones.

"On! Occupy seventy lb to red currants, bruised and pressed, good moist sugar forty-five symbol, water
of fill up a fifteen-gallon cask, ferment; this produces a very
pleasant red wine, rather tart, but keeps ill.-- Ibid. That
smile of the foe was like poison in the King's veins, and again he rushed forward, this time
to bruise and cut his head, so that the blood poured over his white mantle.

Then he grew faint with fear as he beheld his soldiers clawing the empty airs and turning horror-stricken
countenances to him. "Sire," they whispered, "something is holding us back. Something is here
that we do not see!"

At that moment the air-spies dropped to the ground like tired birds. "The wind holds us back,"
cried one. "No!" exclaimed another, "we broke our machines against a wall miles in the air!
This is a bewitched country."

"We will wait and try again," said King Theophile.

So they encamped on the spot, and far off in the haze they saw the other army pitch its tents,
and they heard the soldiers singing. All night their banners waved in the wind and the faint
music continued.

