The revelation came at last by accident.  In a Boer's hut out in the wide solitude of the plains,
a traveling stranger noticed a child playing with a bright object, and was told it was a piece
of glass which had been found in the veldt.  The stranger bought it for a trifle and carried
it away; and being without honor, made another stranger believe it was a diamond, and so got
$125 out of him for it, and was as pleased with himself as if he had done a righteous thing.
In Paris the wronged stranger sold it to a pawnshop for $10,000, who sold it to a countess
for $90,000, who sold it to a brewer for $800;000, who traded it to a king for a dukedom and
a pedigree, and the king "put it up the spout." --[handwritten note: "From the Greek meaning
'pawned it.'" M.T.]--I know these particulars to be correct.

The news flew around, and the South African diamond-boom began.  The original traveler--the
dishonest one--now remembered that he had once seen a Boer teamster chocking his wagon-wheel
on a steep grade with a diamond as large as a football, and he laid aside his occupations and
started out to hunt for it, but not with the intention of cheating anybody out of $125 with
it, for he had reformed.

We now come to matters more didactic.  Diamonds are not imbedded in rock ledges fifty miles
long, like the Johannesburg gold, but are distributed through the rubbish of a filled-up well,
so to speak.  The well is rich, its walls are sharply defined; outside of the walls are no
diamonds.  The well is a crater, and a large one.  Before it had been meddled with, its surface
was even with the level plain, and there was no sign to suggest that it was there.  The pasturage
covering the surface of the Kimberley crater was sufficient for the support of a cow, and the
pasturage underneath was sufficient for the support of a kingdom; but the cow did not know
it, and lost her chance.

The Kimberley crater is roomy enough to admit the Roman Coliseum; the bottom of the crater
has not been reached, and no one can tell how far down in the bowels of the earth it goes.
Originally, it was a perpendicular hole packed solidly full of blue rock or cement, and scattered
through that blue mass, like raisins in a pudding, were the diamonds.  As deep down in the
earth as the blue stuff extends, so deep will the diamonds be found.

There are three or four other celebrated craters near by a circle three miles in diameter would
enclose them all.  They are owned by the De Beers Company, a consolidation of diamond properties
arranged by Mr. Rhodes twelve or fourteen years ago.  The De Beers owns other craters; they
are under the grass, but the De Beers knows where they are, and will open them some day, if
the market should require it.

Originally, the diamond deposits were the property of the Orange Free State; but a judicious
"rectification" of the boundary line shifted them over into the British territory of Cape Colony.
A high official of the Free State told me that the sum of $4,00,000 was handed to his commonwealth
as a compromise, or indemnity, or something of the sort, and that he thought his commonwealth
did wisely to take the money and keep out of a dispute, since the power was all on the one
side and the weakness all on the other.  The De Beers Company dig out $400,000 worth of diamonds
per week, now.  The Cape got the territory, but no profit; for Mr. Rhodes and the Rothschilds
and the other De Beers people own the mines, and they pay no taxes.

In our day the mines are worked upon scientific principles, under the guidance of the ablest
mining-engineering talent procurable in America. There are elaborate works for reducing the
blue rock and passing it through one process after another until every diamond it contains
has been hunted down and secured.  I watched the "concentrators" at work big tanks containing
mud and water and invisible diamonds--and was told that each could stir and churn and properly
treat 300 car-loads of mud per day 1,600 pounds to the car-load--and reduce it to 3 car-loads
of slush.  I saw the 3 carloads of slush taken to the "pulsators" and there reduced to quarter
of a load of nice clean dark-colored sand.  Then I followed it to the sorting tables and saw
the men deftly and swiftly spread it out and brush it about and seize the diamonds as they
showed up.  I assisted, and once I found a diamond half as large as an almond.  It is an exciting
kind of fishing, and you feel a fine thrill of pleasure every time you detect the glow of one
of those limpid pebbles through the veil of dark sand.  I would like to spend my Saturday holidays
in that charming sport every now and then.  Of course there are disappointments.  Sometimes
you find a diamond which is not a diamond; it is only a quartz crystal or some such worthless
thing.  The expert can generally distinguish it from the precious stone which it is counterfeiting;
but if he is in doubt he lays it on a flatiron and hits it with a sledgehammer.  If it is a
diamond it holds its own; if it is anything else, it is reduced to powder.  I liked that experiment
very much, and did not tire of repetitions of it.  It was full of enjoyable apprehensions,
unmarred by any personal sense of risk.  The De Beers concern treats 8;000 carloads --about
6,000 tons--of blue rock per day, and the result is three pounds of diamonds.  Value, uncut,
$50,000 to $70,000.  After cutting, they will weigh considerably less than a pound, but will
be worth four or five times as much as they were before.

All the plain around that region is spread over, a foot deep, with blue rock, placed there
by the Company, and looks like a plowed field. Exposure for a length of time make the rock
easier to work than it is when it comes out of the mine.  If mining should cease now, the supply
of rock spread over those fields would furnish the usual 8,000 car-loads per day to the separating
works during three years.  The fields are fenced and watched; and at night they are under the
constant inspection of lofty electric searchlight.  They contain fifty or sixty million dollars'
worth' of diamonds, and there is an abundance of enterprising thieves around.

In the dirt of the Kimberley streets there is much hidden wealth.  Some time ago the people
were granted the privilege of a free wash-up.  There was a general rush, the work was done
with thoroughness, and a good harvest of diamonds was gathered.

The deep mining is done by natives.  There are many hundreds of them. They live in quarters
built around the inside of a great compound.  They are a jolly and good-natured lot, and accommodating.
They performed a war-dance for us, which was the wildest exhibition I have ever seen. They
are not allowed outside of the compound during their term of service three months, I think
it, is, as a rule.  They go down the shaft, stand their watch, come up again, are searched,
and go to bed or to their amusements in the compound; and this routine they repeat, day in
and day out.

