Operating for this disease will fall into disrepute in time, for there are already cases recurring
and the second and third operation will be necessary among those who survived the first. There
is not a scintilla of logical reasoning in defense of the operation. Because some get well
after an operation is no proof that the operation was necessary; fortunately for the operator
there is no way to prove that the case operated upon would have recovered without the operation.
If the case be not complicated by bungling treatment an operation is uncalled for. If a case
has been medicated and fed to death--abused to the extent of causing a rupture into the peritoneal
cavity--surgery must be resorted to as the only hope.

If a case survive an operation the patient is no wiser than he was before, and knows nothing
about avoiding another attack, for let it be said loud enough to be heard by all, and with
no fear of successful contradiction, that if every child at birth should have the appendix
removed there would not be one case less of appendicitis than there is with the appendix intact.
Of course, technically there could be no appendicitis without an appendix, but the cecum would
become inflamed just as readily.

No amount of forcing drugs given by the mouth can induce a movement from above the constriction,
but a great amount of pain can be produced by attempting to force a passage. No one comprehending
the true state of affairs would be foolhardy enough to try to force the bowels to move. The
reader can readily imagine the great pain and danger liable to follow cathartic drugs, for
they stimulate severe peristaltic contractions. The contractions drive the contents of the
small intestine against the inflamed cut-off, but there it must stop. If the parts have become
softened, which they do by the inflammation, there is danger of perforation and an escape of
the contents of the bowels into the peritoneal cavity, after which diffuse peritonitis and
death follow. Surgery can hardly hope to save such patients; in fact they usually die; this
is why the surgeon recommends an early operation.

If all cases are to be so abused and if there were no better way to treat them I also should
say, operate at once as soon as the disease is discovered; but I know from years of experience
that there is a better way to care for these patients.

CHAPTER X

Allow me to repeat: As soon as a case is diagnosed the proper treatment is to stop all medicine
and food, for they excite movement, and this should be avoided. Give nothing but water. Keep
ice over the inflamed spot. Keep the patient quiet, end the feet warm. There is absolutely
nothing to be done until the bowels move, which will take place in from fourteen to twenty-eight
days. The patient will not starve to death, nor will there be any danger that the abscess will
open anywhere except into the bowels. After the bowels move, one glass of hot milk is to be
given three times a day, so there will be no danger of solid food finding its way into the
cavity of the abscess.

To be safe I insist on a fluid diet for a week after the bowels move, and a light diet for
two or three weeks more. Cases taken through in this way, and then instructed in never allowing
the bowels to become loaded again, will not only make a good recovery, but there is no tendency
for the disease to return if the patient is prudent. I say that there need not be a death from
this disease if these suggestions are properly carried out. The cases that die every year are
killed by food and medicine.

Surgery has gained its reputation in these cases because of the stupidity of the average physician
and patient. Cases taken through in this way are comparatively comfortable; they may pretend
to suffer from hunger, but it is principally imagination. If my plan were generally adopted
the dread of this disease would disappear; surgeons would get left on some fat fees, and the
undertaker would look glum after the fall crop.

There are a few laymen so willful and incorrigible that they can't be depended upon to follow
instructions. They will break rules, be imprudent in eating, and in many ways disregard their
own interests. They had three Italian, one of Florence, and have another time Sienna, and as such third
as a, and from dressing one dish, as viterbo coachman as piccante. He had no servants in men cooks;
his butler, footman, housekeeper, docce, and grooms, were all cooks..