Yet in this time also a great advance was made, as is shown not only by the fact that Dickens
and Thackeray themselves became possible, but by the various achievements of the principal
writers mentioned in this chapter, of one or two who might have been, but are perhaps, on the
whole, best postponed to the next, such as Lever, and of the great army of minorities who have
been of necessity omitted. In every direction and from every point of view novel is growing.
Although it was abused by precisians, the gran conquesta of Scott had forced it into general
recognition and requisition. Even the still severe discipline of family life in the first half
of the nineteenth century, instead of excluding it altogether, contented itself with prescribing
that "novels should not be read in the morning." A test which may be thought vulgar by the
super-fine or the superficial, but a pretty good one, is the altered status and position of
the writers of novels. In the eighteenth, especially the earlier eighteenth, century the novelist
had not merely been looked down upon as a novelist, but had, as a rule, resorted to novel-writing
under some stress of circumstance. Even when he was by birth a "gentleman of coat armour" as
Fielding and Smollett were, he was usually a gentleman very much out at elbows: the stories,
true or false, of Rasselas and Johnson's mother's funeral expenses, of the Vicar of Wakefield
and Goldsmith's dunning landlady, have something more than mere anecdote in them. Mackenzie,
though the paternity of his famille déplorable of novels was no secret, preserved a strict
nominal incognito. Women, as having no regular professions and plenty of time at their disposal,
were allowed more latitude: and this really perhaps had something to do with their early prominence
in the novel; but it is certain that Scott's rigid, and for a long time successful, maintenance
of the mask was by no means mere prudery, and still less merely prudent commercial speculation.
Yet he, who altered so much in the novel, altered this also. Of the novelists noticed in the
early part of this chapter, one became Prime Minister of England, another rose to cabinet rank,
a baronetcy, and a peerage; a third was H.M. consul in important posts abroad; a fourth held
a great position, if not in the service directly of the crown, in what was of hardly less importance,
that of the East India Company; a fifth was a post-captain in the navy and Companion of the Bath.

And all this had been rendered possible partly by the genius of novel-writers, partly by the
appetite of the novel-reader. This latter was to continue unabated: whether the former was
to increase, to maintain itself, or slacken must be, to some extent of course, matter of opinion.
But we have still two quarter-centuries to survey, in the first of which there may perhaps
be some reason for thinking that the novel rose to its actual zenith. Nearly all the writers
mentioned in this chapter continued to write--the greater part, in genius, of Thackeray's accomplished
work, and the greater part, in bulk, of Dickens's, had still to appear. But these elders were
reinforced by fresh recruits, some of them of a prowess only inferior to the very greatest:
and a distinct development of the novel itself, in the direction of self-reliance and craftsmanlike
working on its own lines, was to be seen. In particular, the deferred influence of Miss Austen
was at last to be brought to bear with astonishing results: while, partly owing to the example
of Thackeray, the historical variety (which had for the most part been a pale and rather vulgarised
imitation of Scott), was to be revived and varied in a manner equally astonishing. More than
ever we shall have to let styles and kinds "speak by their foremen"--in fact to some extent
to let them speak for themselves with very little detailed notice even of these foremen. But
we shall still endeavour to keep the general threads in hand and to exhibit their direction,
their crossing, and their other phenomena, as clearly as possible to the reader. For only so
can we complete the picture of the course of fiction throughout English literature--with the
sole exclusion of living writers, whose work can never be satisfactorily treated in such a
book as this--first, because they are living and, secondly, because it is not done.

CHAPTER VII

THE MID-VICTORIAN NOVEL

At about the very middle of the nineteenth century--say from 1845 to 1855 in each direction,
but almost increasingly towards the actual dividing line of 1850--there came upon the English
novel a very remarkable wind of refreshment and new endeavour. Thackeray and Dickens themselves
are examples of it, with Lever and others, before this dividing line: many others yet come
to join them. A list of books written out just as they occur to the memory, and without any
attempt to marshal them in strict chronological order, would show this beyond all reasonable
possibility of gainsaying. Thackeray's own best accomplished work from Vanity Fair (1846) itself
through Pendennis (1849) and Esmond (1852) to The Newcomes (1854); the brilliant centre of
Dickens's work in David Copperfield (1850)--stand at the head and have been already noticed
by anticipation or implication, while Lever had almost completed the first division of his
work, which began with Harry Lorrequer as early as the year of Pickwick. But such books as
Yeast (1848), Westward Ho! (1855); as The Warden (1855); as Jane Eyre (1847) and its too few
successors; as Scenes of Clerical Life (1857); as Mary Barton (1848) and the novels which followed
it, with others which it is perhaps almost unfair to leave out even in this allusive summary
by sample, betokened a stirring of the waters, a rattling among the bones, such as is not common
in literature. Death removed Thackeray early and Dickens somewhat less prematurely, but after
a period rather barren in direct novel work. The others continued and were constantly reinforced:
nor was it till well on in the seventies that any distinct drop from first- to second-growth
quality could be observed in the general vintage of English fiction.

One is not quite driven, on this occasion, to the pusillanimous explanation that this remarkable
variety and number of good novels was simply due to the simultaneous existence of an equally
remarkable number of good novelists. The fact is that, by this time, the great example of Scott
and Miss Austen--the great wave of progress which exemplified itself first and most eminently
in these two writers--had had time to work upon and permeate another generation of practitioners.
The novelists who have just been cited were as a rule born in the second decade of the century,
just before, about, or after the time at which Scott and Miss Austen began to publish. They
had therefore--as their elders, even though they may have had time to read the pair, had not--time
to assimilate thoroughly and early the results which that pair had produced or which they had
first expressed. And they had even greater advantages than this. They had had time to assimilate,
likewise, the results of all the rest of that great literary generation of which Scott and
Miss Austen were themselves but members. They profited by thirty years more of constant historical
exploration and realising of former days. One need not say, for it is question-begging, that
they also profited by, but they could at least avail themselves of, the immense change of manners
and society which made 1850 differ more from 1800 than 1800 had differed, not merely from 1750
but from 1700. They had, even though all of them may not have been sufficiently grateful for
it, the stimulus of that premier position in Europe which the country had gained in the Napoleonic
wars, and which she had not yet wholly lost or even begun to lose. They had wider travel, more
extended occupations and interests, many other new things to draw upon. And, lastly, they had
some important special incidents and movements--the new arrangement of political parties, the
Oxford awakening, and others--to give suggestion and impetus to novels of the specialist kind.
Nay, they had not only the great writers, in other kinds, of the immediate past, but those
of the present, Carlyle, Tennyson, latterly Ruskin, and others still to complete their education
and the machinery of its development.

The most remarkable feature of this renouveau, as has been both directly and indirectly observed
before, is the resumption, the immense extension, and the extraordinary improvement of the
domestic novel. Not that this had not been practised during the thirty years since Miss Austen's
death. But the external advantages just enumerated had failed it: and it had enlisted none
of the chief talents which were at the service of fiction generally. A little more gift and
a good deal more taste might have enabled Mrs. Trollope to do really great things in it: but
she left them for her son to accomplish. Attempts and "tries" at it had been made constantly,
and the goal had been very nearly reached, especially, perhaps, in that now much forgotten
but remarkable Emilia Wyndham (1846) by Anne Caldwell (Mrs. Marsh), which was wickedly described
by a sister novelist as the "book where the woman breaks her desk open with her head," but
which has real power and exercised real influence for no short time.

This new domestic novel followed Miss Austen in that it did not necessarily avail itself of
anything but perfectly ordinary life, and relied chiefly on artistic presentment--on treatment
rather than on subject. It departed from her in that it admitted a much wider range and variety
of subject itself; and by no means excluded the passions and emotions which, though she had
not been so prudish as to ignore their results, she had never chosen to represent in much actual
exercise, or to make the mainsprings of her books.

The first supreme work of the kind was perhaps in Vanity Fair and Pendennis, the former admitting
exceptional and irregular developments as an integral part of its plot and general appeal,
the latter doing for the most part without them. But Pendennis exhibited in itself, and taught
to other novelists, if not an absolutely new, a hitherto little worked, and clumsily worked,
source of novel interest. We have seen how, as early as Head or Kirkman, the possibility of
making such a source out of the ways of special trades, professions, employments, and vocations
had been partly seen and utilised. Defoe did it more; Smollett more still; and since the great
war there had been naval and military novels in abundance, as well as novels political, clerical,
sporting, and what not. But these special interests had been as a rule drawn upon too onesidedly.
The eighteenth century found its mistaken fondness for episodes, inset stories, and the like,
particularly convenient here: the naval, military, sporting, and other novels of the nineteenth
were apt to rely too exclusively on these differences. Such things as the Oxbridge scenes and
the journalism scenes of Pendennis--both among the most effective and popular, perhaps the
most effective and popular, parts of the book--were almost, if not entirely, new. There had
been before, and have since been, plenty of university novels, and their record has been a
record of almost uninterrupted failure; there have since, if not before, Pendennis been several
"press" novels, and their record has certainly not been a record of unbroken success. But the
employment here, by genius, of such subjects for substantial parts of a novel was a success
pure and unmixed. So, in the earlier book, the same author had shown how the most humdrum incident
and the minutest painting of ordinary character could be combined with historic tragedy like
that furnished by Waterloo, with domestic drame of the most exciting kind like the discovery
of Lord Steyne's relations with Becky, or the at least suggested later crime of that ingenious
and rather hardly treated little person.

Most of the writers mentioned and glanced at above took--not of course always, often, or perhaps
ever in conscious following of Thackeray, but in consequence of the same "skiey influences"
which worked on him--to this mixed domestic-dramatic line. And what is still more interesting,
men who had already made their mark for years, in styles quite different, turned to it and
adopted it. We have seen this of Bulwer, and the evidences of the change in him which are given
by the "Caxton" novels. We have not yet directly dealt with another instance of almost as great
interest and distinction, Charles Lever, though we have named him and glanced at his work.

Lever, who was born as early as 1806, had, it has been said, begun to write novels as early
as his junior, Dickens, and had at once developed, in Harry Lorrequer, a pretty distinct style
of his own. This style was a kind of humour-novel with abundant incident, generally with a
somewhat "promiscuous" plot and with lively but externally drawn characters--the humours being
furnished partly by Lever's native country, Ireland, and partly by the traditions of the great
war of which he had collected a store in his capacity of physician to the Embassy at Brussels.
He had kept up this style, the capital example of which is Charles O'Malley (1840), with unabated
verve and with great popular success for a dozen years before 1850. But about that time, or
rather earlier, the general "suck" of the current towards a different kind (assisted no doubt
by the feeling that the public might be getting tired of the other style) made him change it
into studies of a less specialised kind--of foreign travel, home life, and the like--sketches
which, in his later days still, he brought even closer to actuality. It is true that in the
long run his popularity has depended, and will probably always depend, on the early "rollicking"
adventure books: not only because of their natural appeal, but because there is plenty of the
other thing elsewhere, and hardly any of this particular thing anywhere. To almost anybody,
for instance, except a very great milksop or a pedant of construction, Charles O'Malley with
its love-making and its fighting, its horsemanship and its horse-play, its "devilled kidneys"[23]
and its devil-may-care-ness, is a distinctly delectable composition; and if a reasonable interval
be allowed between the readings, may be read over and over again, at all times of life, with
satisfaction. But the fact of the author's change remains not the less historically and symptomatically
important, in connection with the larger change of which we are now taking notice, and with
the similar phenomena observable in the work of Bulwer. At the same time it has been pointed
out that the following of Miss Austen by no means excluded the following of Scott: and that
the new development included "crosses" of novel and romance, sometimes of the historical kind,
sometimes not, which are of the highest, or all but the highest, interest. Early and good examples
of these may be found in the work of the Brontës, Charlotte and Emily (the third sister Anne
is but a pale reflection of her elders), and of Charles Kingsley. Charlotte (b. 1816) and Charles
(b. 1819) were separated in their birth by but three years, Emily (b. 1818) and Kingsley by
but one.

    [23] Edgar Poe has a perfectly serious and very characteristic
    explosion at the prominence of these agreeable viands in the
    book.

The curious story of the struggles of the Brontë girls to get published hardly concerns us,
and Emily's work, Wuthering Heights,[24] is one of those isolated books which, whatever their
merit, are rather ornaments than essential parts in novel history. But this is not the case
with Jane Eyre (1847), Shirley (1849), Villette (1852), and The Professor (1857) (but written
much earlier). These are all examples of the determination to base novels on actual life and
experience. Few novelists have ever kept so close to their own part in these as Charlotte Brontë
did, though she accompanied, permeated, and to a certain extent transformed her autobiography
and observation by a strong romantic and fantastic imaginative element. Deprive Thackeray and
Dickens of nearly all their humour and geniality, take a portion only of the remaining genius
of each in the ratio of about 2 Th. to 1 D., add a certain dash of the old terror-novel and
the German fantastic tale, moisten with feminine spirit and water, and mix thoroughly: and
you have something very like Charlotte Brontë. But it is necessary to add further, and it is
her great glory, the perfume and atmosphere of the Yorkshire moors, which she had in not quite
such perfection as her sister Emily, but in combination with more general novel-gift. Her actual
course of writing was short, and it could probably in no case have been long; she wanted wider
and, perhaps, happier experience, more literature, more man-and-woman-of-the-worldliness, perhaps
a sweeter and more genial temper. But the English novel would have been incomplete without
her and her sister; they are, as wholes, unlike anybody else, and if they are not exactly great
they have the quality of greatness. Above all, they kept novel and romance together--a deed
which is great without any qualification or drawback.

    [24] Some will have it that this was really Charlotte's: but not
    with much probability.

Charles Kingsley is one of the most precious documents for the cynics who say that while, if
you please the public in only one way, you may possibly meet with only tolerable ingratitude;
if you attempt to please it in more ways than one, you are certain to be suspected, and still
more certain to have the defects of your weakest work transferred to your best. He was a novelist,
a poet, an essayist, a preacher, a historian, and a critic. His history, though less positively
inaccurate than the "dead set" against him of certain notorious persons chose to represent
it, was uncritical: and his criticism, sometimes acute and luminous, was decidedly unhistorical.
But he was a preacher of remarkable merit, a charming and original essayist, a poet of no wide
range but of true poetical quality, and a novelist of great variety and of almost the first
class. He let his weakest qualities go in with his strongest in his novels, and had also the
still more unfortunate tendency to "trail coats" of the most inconceivably different colours
for others to tread upon. Liberals, Radicals, and Tories; Roman Catholics, High Churchmen,
Low Churchmen, and No-Churchmen; sentimentalists and cynics; people who do not like literary
and historical allusion, and people who are meticulous about literary and historical accuracy--all
these and many others, if they cannot disregard flings at their own particular tastes, fancies,
and notions, are sure to lose patience with him now and then. Accordingly, he has met with
some exacerbated decriers, and with very few thorough-going defenders.

Yet almost thoroughing-going defence is, as far as the novels (our only direct business) are
concerned, far from difficult; and the present writer, though there are perhaps not a dozen
consecutive pages of Kingsley's novels to which, at some point or other, he is not prepared
to append the note, "This is Bosh," is prepared also to exalt him miles above writers whose
margins he would be quite content to leave without a single annotation of this--or any other--kind.
In particular the variety of the books, and their vividness, are both extraordinary. And perhaps
the greatest notes of the novel generally, as well as those in which the novel of this period
can most successfully challenge comparison with those of any other, are, or should be, vividness
and variety. His books in the kind are seven; and the absence of replicas among them is one
of their extraordinary features. Yeast, the first (1848), and Alton Locke, the second (next
year), are novels of the unrest of thought which caused and accompanied the revolutionary movement
of the period throughout Europe. But they are quite different in subject and treatment. The
first is a sketch of country society, uppermost and lowermost:[25] the second one of town-artisan
and lower-trade life with passages of university and other contrast. Both are young and crude
enough, intentionally or unintentionally; both, intentionally beyond all doubt, are fantastic
and extravagant; but both are full of genius. Argemone Lavington, the heroine of Yeast, is,
though not of the most elaborately drawn, one of the most fascinating and real heroines of
English fiction; an important secondary character of the second book, the bookseller Sandy
Mackaye, is one of its most successful "character-parts." Both, but especially Yeast, are full
of admirable descriptive writing, not entirely without indebtedness to Mr. Ruskin, but very
often independently carried out, and always worthy of a "place on the line" in any gallery.
There is much accurate and real dialogue, not a little firm character-drawing. Above all, both
are full of blood--of things lived and seen, not vamped up from reading or day-dreaming--and
yet full of dreams, day and other, and full of literature. Perhaps "the malt was a little above
the meal," the yeast present in more abundant quality than the substances for fermentation,
but there was no lack even of these.

    [25] It is curious to compare this (dealing as it does largely
    with sport) and the "Jorrocks" series of Robert Surtees
    (1803-1864). Kingsley was nearly as practical a sportsman as
    Surtees: but Surtees's characters and manners have the old
    artificial-picaresque quality only.

Hypatia--which succeeded after some interval (1853) and when the writer's Christian Socialist,
Churchman-Chartist excitement had somewhat clarified itself--is a more substantial, a more
ambitious, but certainly also an even more successful book. It has something of--and perhaps,
though in far transposed matter, owes something to--Esmond in its daring blend of old and new,
and it falls short of that wonderful creation. But it is almost a second to it: and, with plenty
of faults, is perhaps the only classical or semi-classical novel of much value in English.

