Upon the 9th of April--after having heard of the arrival at Macao of M. d'Entrecasteaux, who
had come from Mauritius with the contrary monsoon, and received despatches from Europe by the
frigate La Subtile, MM. Guyet, midshipman, and Le Gobien, naval officer, and a reinforcement
of eight sailors--the two vessels set out for the coast of China.

Upon the 21st La Perouse sighted Formosa, and at once entered the channel which separates that
island from China. He discovered a very dangerous bank unknown to navigators, and carefully
examined the soundings and approaches. Shortly afterwards he passed in front of the bay of
the ancient Dutch fort of Zealand, where the capital of the island, Tai-wan, is situated.

The monsoon was unfavourable for ascending the channel, and La Perouse therefore resolved to
pass to the east of the island. He rectified the position of the Pescadores Islands, a mass
of rocks which assume various shapes, reconnoitred the small island of Botol-Tabaco-Xima, where
no navigator had landed, coasted Kinin Island, which forms part of the kingdom of Liken, whose
inhabitants are neither Chinese nor Japanese, but appear to be of both races, and sighted Hoa-pinsu
and Tiaoy-su Islands. The latter form part of the Liken Archipelago, known only through the
letters of Father Goubil, a Jesuit.

The frigates then entered the Eastern Sea, and directed their course to the channel which divides
China and Japan. La Perouse there encountered fogs as thick as those which prevail upon the
coast of Labrador, with variable and violent currents. The first point of interest before entering
the Sea of Japan was Quelpaert Island, first made known to Europeans by the shipwreck of the
Sparrow Hawk upon its coast in 1635. La Perouse determined its southerly extremity, and surveyed
it for a distance of twelve leagues.

"It is scarcely possible," he says, "to find an island of pleasanter aspect. A peak of about
four thousand five hundred feet high, visible at a distance of eighteen or twenty leagues,
rises in the centre of the island; the land slopes gently from thence to the sea, so that the
houses look like an amphitheatre. The soil seemed to be highly cultivated. By the aid of our
glasses we clearly made out the divisions of the fields. They are in very small allotments,
which augurs a large population. The different shades of the various cultivated patches give
a very agreeable variety to the view."

The explorers had ample opportunity for taking the longitude and latitude, which was the more
important, as no European vessel had navigated these seas, which were only indicated upon the
maps in accordance with the Chinese and Japanese maps published by the Jesuits.

Upon the 25th of May the frigates entered the channel of Corea, which was minutely explored,
and in which soundings were taken every half hour.

As it was possible to keep close in shore, it was easy to observe some fortifications in the
European style, and to note all their details.

On the 27th an island was perceived which was not to be found upon any map, and which seemed
to be about twenty leagues distant from the coast of Corea. It received the name of Dagelet Island.

The course was now directed towards Japan, but it was very slow, on account of the contrary
winds that prevailed.

On the 6th of June Cape Noto and the island of Tsus Sima were discovered.

"Cape Noto, upon the Japanese coast," says La Perouse, "is a point on which geographers may
rely. Reckoning from it to Cape Kona on the eastern coast, the position of which was determined
by Captain King, the width of the northern half of the empire may be ascertained. Our observations
have the greater value for geographers as they determine the width of the Gulf of Tartary,
to which I now directed my course."

Upon the 11th of June La Perouse sighted Tartary. He made land precisely at the boundary between
the Corea and Manchuria. The mountains appeared to be six or seven thousand feet high. A small
quantity of snow was visible on the summits. No trace of inhabitants or cultivation could be
seen; nor was any river's mouth found upon a length of coast extending for forty leagues. A
halt would have been desirable, to enable the naturalists and lithologists to make observations.

"Up to the 14th of June the coast had run to the N.E. by N. We were now in 44 degrees lat.,
and had reached the degree which geographers assign for the so-called Strait of Tessoy, but
we were five degrees farther west than the longitude given for this spot. These five degrees
should be taken from Tartary, and added to the channel which separates it from the islands
north of Japan."

Whilst coasting along this shore no sign of habitation had been perceived--not a pirogue left
the shore. The country, although covered with magnificent trees and luxuriant vegetation, appeared
to be uninhabited.

On the 23rd of June the Boussole and the Astrolabe cast anchor in a bay situated in 45 degrees
13 minutes N. lat. and 135 degrees 9 minutes E. long. It was named Ternay Bay.

"We burned with impatience," say La Perouse, "to reconnoitre this land, which had occupied
our imagination ever since we left France. It was the only portion of the globe which had escaped
the indefatigable activity of Captain Cook; and perhaps we owe the small advantage of having
first landed there to the sad event which ended his days.

"This roadstead was formed of five little creeks, separated one from the other by hillocks
covered with trees of a more delicate and varied green than is to be seen in France in the
brightest spring. Before our boats reached the shore, our glasses had been directed to the
coast, but we perceived nothing but stags and bears, quietly grazing. Our impatience to disembark
increased at the sight. The ground was carpeted with plants similar to those of our climate,
but more vigorous and green; most of them were in flower. At every step we found roses, red
and yellow lilies, lilies of the valley, and almost all our field flowers. The summits of the
mountains were crowned with pines, and oak-trees grew half way up, decreasing in size and vigour
as they neared the sea. The rivers and streams were planted with willows, birches, and maples;
and skirting the larger woods we saw apple-trees and azaroles in full bloom, as well as clumps
of nut-trees, the fruit of which was beginning to form."

Upon returning from a fishing excursion the French met with a Tartar tomb. Curiosity induced
them to open it, and they found in it two skeletons, lying side by side. The heads were covered
with stuff caps, the bodies were wrapped in bearskins, and from the waists hung several little
Chinese coins and copper ornaments. They also found half-a-score of silver bracelets, an iron
hatchet, a knife, and other things, amongst which was a small bag of blue nankeen filled with rice.

Upon the morning of the 27th La Perouse left this solitary bay, after depositing there several
medals, with an inscription giving the date of his arrival.

A little further on, more than eight hundred cod, which were at once salted, were caught, and
an immense quantity of oysters with superb mother of pearl were also obtained.

After a stay in Saffren Bay, situated in 47 degrees 51 minutes N. lat. and 137 degrees 25 minutes
E. long., La Perouse discovered, upon the 6th of July, an island, which was no other than Saghalien.
The shore here was as wooded as that of Tartary. Lofty mountains arose in the interior, the
highest of which was called Lamanon peak. As huts and smoke were seen, M. de Langle and several
officers landed. The inhabitants had recently fled, for the ashes of their fires were scarcely
cold.

Just as the French were re-embarking, after leaving some presents for the natives, a pirogue
landed seven natives, who showed no signs of fear.

"Amongst them," says the narrative, "were two old men with long white beards, dressed in stuff
made from the bark of trees, very like the cotton drawers worn in Madagascar. Two of the seven
natives had coats of padded nankeen, differing little in shape from those of the Chinese. Others
wore long gowns, which were fastened by means of a waist-belt and some little buttons, so that
they had no need of drawers. Their heads were bare, but one or two of them wore bearskin bands.
They had their forelocks and faces shaven, but the back hair kept about eight or ten inches
long, in a different fashion from the Chinese, however, who leave only a round tuft of hair,
which they call 'pen-t-sec.' All had sealskin boots with the feet artistically worked à la
Chinoise.

"Their weapons were bows, spears, and arrows, tipped with iron. The oldest of the natives,
to whom the others showed the most respect, had his eyes in a dreadful state; he wore a shade
round his head, to protect them from the sun. These natives were grave in manner, and friendly."

M. de Langle appointed a meeting for the morrow. La Perouse and most of his officers attended.
The facts they learned about these Tartars were important, and decided La Perouse to pursue
his discoveries further north.

"We succeeded in making them understand," he says, "that we wished them to draw their country,
and that of Manchuria. One of the old men then arose, and with the point of his spear traced
the coast of Tartary westward, running nearly N. and S. To the east, vis-à-vis in the same
direction, he represented his island, and, placing his hand upon his breast, made us understand
that he had indicated his own country. He left an opening between his island and Tartary, and,
pointing to our vessels, showed us by signs that they could pass through it. At the south island
he delineated another, and left a second opening, indicating that this too was a route for
our ships.

"His quickness in understanding us was great, but not equal to that of another islander, about
thirty years of age, who, seeing that the figures traced on sand were rubbed out, took one
of our pencils and some paper. He traced out his island, which he called Tchoka, and made a
line for the little river upon the shore of which we were--placing it two-thirds of the length
of the island from north to south. He then drew Manchuria, leaving, as the old man had done,
a strait at the extreme end; and to our surprise he added the river Saghalien, the name of
which the natives pronounce like ourselves. He placed the mouth of this river a little to the
south of the northerly point of his island.

"We afterwards wished to ascertain whether this strait was very wide. We tried to make him
understand our idea. He caught at it at once, and, placing his two hands upright at a distance
of three inches one from the other, he made us understand that he meant to indicate the width
of the little river which formed our watering place; and then, holding them wider apart, he
indicated that the second width was to represent that of the river Saghalien; and, separating
them still more, he gave the breadth of the strait which divides his country from Tartary.

"M. de Langle and I thought it of the greatest importance to ascertain whether the island we
were coasting was that to which geographers had given the name of Saghalien, without guessing
its extension southwards. I ordered all hands on board, and prepared to sail in the morning.
The bay in which we had anchored received the name of Langle, from the captain who discovered
it, and was the first to put foot on land.

