"Oh, I know, I know!  There is no dearer wish in my heart--there can be none--than to share
my husband's home.  Oh, my dear, my dear, if you only knew what it would be to me to be with
you always!  But indeed I may not--not yet!  I am not free!  If you but knew how much that
which has happened to-night has cost me--or how much cost to others as well as to myself may
be yet to come--you would understand.  Rupert"--it was the first time she had ever addressed
me by name, and naturally it thrilled me through and through--"Rupert, my husband, only that
I trust you with all the faith which is in perfect love--mutual love, I dare not have done
what I have done this night.  But, dear, I know that you will bear me out; that your wife's
honour is your honour, even as your honour is mine. My honour is given to this; and you can
help me--the only help I can have at present--by trusting me.  Be patient, my beloved, be patient!
Oh, be patient for a little longer!  It shall not be for long.  So soon as ever my soul is
freed I shall come to you, my husband; and we shall never part again.  Be content for a while!
Believe me that I love you with my very soul; and to keep away from your dear side is more
bitter for me than even it can be for you!  Think, my dear one, I am not as other women are,
as some day you shall clearly understand.  I am at the present, and shall be for a little longer,
constrained by duties and obligations put upon me by others, and for others, and to which I
am pledged by the most sacred promises--given not only by myself, but by others--and which
I must not forgo.  These forbid me to do as I wish.  Oh, trust me, my beloved--my husband!"

She held out her hands appealingly.  The moonlight, falling through the thinning forest, showed
her white cerements.  Then the recollection of all she must have suffered--the awful loneliness
in that grim tomb in the Crypt, the despairing agony of one who is helpless against the unknown--swept
over me in a wave of pity.  What could I do but save her from further pain?  And this could
only be by showing her my faith and trust.  If she was to go back to that dreadful charnel-house,
she would at least take with her the remembrance that one who loved her and whom she loved--to
whom she had been lately bound in the mystery of marriage--trusted her to the full.  I loved
her more than myself--more than my own soul; and I was moved by pity so great that all possible
selfishness was merged in its depths.  I bowed my head before her--my Lady and my Wife--as I said:

"So be it, my beloved.  I trust you to the full, even as you trust me. And that has been proven
this night, even to my own doubting heart.  I shall wait; and as I know you wish it, I shall
wait as patiently as I can.  But till you come to me for good and all, let me see you or hear
from you when you can.  The time, dear wife, must go heavily with me as I think of you suffering
and lonely.  So be good to me, and let not too long a time elapse between my glimpses of hope.
And, sweetheart, when you do come to me, it shall be for ever!"  There was something in the
intonation of the last sentence--I felt its sincerity myself--some implied yearning for a promise,
that made her beautiful eyes swim.  The glorious stars in them were blurred as she answered
with a fervour which seemed to me as more than earthly:

"For ever!  I swear it!"

With one long kiss, and a straining in each others arms, which left me tingling for long after
we had lost sight of each other, we parted.  I stood and watched her as her white figure, gliding
through the deepening gloom, faded as the forest thickened.  It surely was no optical delusion
or a phantom of the mind that her shrouded arm was raised as though in blessing or farewell
before the darkness swallowed her up.

BOOK VI: THE PURSUIT IN THE FOREST

RUPERT'S JOURNAL--Continued.

                                                           July 3, 1907.

There is no anodyne but work to pain of the heart; and my pain is all of the heart.  I sometimes
feel that it is rather hard that with so much to make me happy I cannot know happiness.  How
can I be happy when my wife, whom I fondly love, and who I know loves me, is suffering in horror
and loneliness of a kind which is almost beyond human belief?  However, what is my loss is
my country's gain, for the Land of the Blue Mountains is my country now, despite the fact that
I am still a loyal subject of good King Edward.  Uncle Roger took care of that when he said
I should have the consent of the Privy Council before I might be naturalized anywhere else.

When I got home yesterday morning I naturally could not sleep.  The events of the night and
the bitter disappointment that followed my exciting joy made such a thing impossible.  When
I drew the curtain over the window, the reflection of the sunrise was just beginning to tinge
the high-sailing clouds in front of me.  I laid down and tried to rest, but without avail.
However, I schooled myself to lie still, and at last, if I did not sleep, was at least quiescent.

Disturbed by a gentle tap at the door, I sprang up at once and threw on a dressing gown.  Outside,
when I opened the door, was Aunt Janet.  She was holding a lighted candle in her hand, for
though it was getting light in the open, the passages were still dark.  When she saw me she
seemed to breathe more freely, and asked if she might come in.

Whilst she sat on the edge of my bed, in her old-time way, she said in a hushed voice:

"Oh, laddie, laddie, I trust yer burden is no too heavy to bear."

"My burden!  What on earth do you mean, Aunt Janet?" I said in reply.  I did not wish to commit
myself by a definite answer, for it was evident that she had been dreaming or Second Sighting
again.  She replied with the grim seriousness usual to her when she touched on occult matters:

"I saw your hairt bleeding, laddie.  I kent it was yours, though how I kent it I don't know.
It lay on a stone floor in the dark, save for a dim blue light such as corpse-lights are. 
On it was placed a great book, and close around were scattered many strange things, amongst
them two crowns o' flowers--the one bound wi' silver, the other wi' gold.  There was also a
golden cup, like a chalice, o'erturned.  The red wine trickled from it an' mingled wi' yer
hairt's bluid; for on the great book was some vast dim weight wrapped up in black, and on it
stepped in turn many men all swathed in black.  An' as the weight of each came on it the bluid
gushed out afresh.  And oh, yer puir hairt, my laddie, was quick and leaping, so that at every
beat it raised the black-clad weight!  An' yet that was not all, for hard by stood a tall imperial
shape o' a woman, all arrayed in white, wi' a great veil o' finest lace worn o'er a shrood.
An' she was whiter than the snow, an' fairer than the morn for beauty; though a dark woman
she was, wi' hair like the raven, an' eyes black as the sea at nicht, an' there was stars in
them.  An' at each beat o' yer puir bleeding hairt she wrung her white hands, an' the manin'
o' her sweet voice rent my hairt in twain.  Oh, laddie, laddie! what does it mean?"

I managed to murmur: "I'm sure I don't know, Aunt Janet.  I suppose it was all a dream!"

"A dream it was, my dear.  A dream or a veesion, whilka matters nane, for a' such are warnin's
sent frae God . . . "  Suddenly she said in a different voice:

"Laddie, hae ye been fause to any lassie?  I'm no blamin' ye.  For ye men are different frae
us women, an' yer regard on recht and wrang differs from oors.  But oh, laddie, a woman's tears
fa' heavy when her hairt is for sair wi' the yieldin' to fause words.  'Tis a heavy burden
for ony man to carry wi' him as he goes, an' may well cause pain to ithers that he fain would
spare."  She stopped, and in dead silence waited for me to speak.  I thought it would be best
to set her poor loving heart at rest, and as I could not divulge my special secret, spoke in
general terms:

"Aunt Janet, I am a man, and have led a man's life, such as it is.  But I can tell you, who
have always loved me and taught me to be true, that in all the world there is no woman who
must weep for any falsity of mine. If close there be any who, sleeping or waking, in dreams
or visions or in reality, weeps because of me, it is surely not for my doing, but because of
something outside me.  It may be that her heart is sore because I must suffer, as all men must
in some degree; but she does not weep for or through any act of mine."

She sighed happily at my assurance, and looked up through her tears, for she was much moved;
and after tenderly kissing my forehead and blessing me, stole away.  She was more sweet and
tender than I have words to say, and the only regret that I have in all that is gone is that
I have not been able to bring my wife to her, and let her share in the love she has for me.
But that, too, will come, please God!

In the morning I sent a message to Rooke at Otranto, instructing him by code to bring the yacht
to Vissarion in the coming night.

All day I spent in going about amongst the mountaineers, drilling them and looking after their
arms.  I could not stay still.  My only chance of peace was to work, my only chance of sleep
to tire myself out. Unhappily, I am very strong, so even when I came home at dark I was quite
fresh.  However, I found a cable message from Rooke that the yacht would arrive at midnight.

There was no need to summon the mountaineers, as the men in the Castle would be sufficient
to make preparations for the yacht's coming.

                                                                  Later.

The yacht has come.  At half-past eleven the lookout signalled that a steamer without lights
was creeping in towards the Creek.  I ran out to the Flagstaff, and saw her steal in like a
ghost.  She is painted a steely blue-grey, and it is almost impossible to see her at any distance.
She certainly goes wonderfully.  Although there was not enough throb from the engines to mar
the absolute stillness, she came on at a fine speed, and within a few minutes was close to
the boom.  I had only time to run down to give orders to draw back the boom when she glided
in and stopped dead at the harbour wall.  Rooke steered her himself, and he says he never was
on a boat that so well or so quickly answered her helm.  She is certainly a beauty, and so
far as I can see at night perfect in every detail.  I promise myself a few pleasant hours over
her in the daylight. The men seem a splendid lot.

But I do not feel sleepy; I despair of sleep to-night.  But work demands that I be fit for
whatever may come, and so I shall try to sleep--to rest, at any rate.

RUPERT'S JOURNAL.--Continued.

                                                           July 4, 1907.

I was up with the first ray of sunrise, so by the time I had my bath and was dressed there
was ample light.  I went down to the dock at once, and spent the morning looking over the vessel,
which fully justifies Rooke's enthusiasm about her.  She is built on lovely lines, and I can
quite understand that she is enormously fast.  Her armour I can only take on the specifications,
but her armament is really wonderful.  And there are not only all the very newest devices of
aggressive warfare--indeed, she has the newest up-to-date torpedoes and torpedo-guns--but also
the old-fashioned rocket-tubes, which in certain occasions are so useful. She has electric
guns and the latest Massillon water-guns, and Reinhardt electro-pneumatic "deliverers" for
pyroxiline shells.  She is even equipped with war-balloons easy of expansion, and with compressible
Kitson aeroplanes.  I don't suppose that there is anything quite like her in the world.

The crew are worthy of her.  I can't imagine where Rooke picked up such a splendid lot of men.
They are nearly all man-of-warsmen; of various nationalities, but mostly British.  All young
men--the oldest of them hasn't got into the forties--and, so far as I can learn, all experts
of one kind or another in some special subject of warfare.  It will go hard with me, but I
shall keep them together.

How I got through the rest of the day I know not.  I tried hard not to create any domestic
trouble by my manner, lest Aunt Janet should, after her lurid dream or vision of last night,
attach some new importance to it.  I think I succeeded, for she did not, so far as I could
tell, take any special notice of me.  We parted as usual at half-past ten, and I came here
and made this entry in my journal.  I am more restless than ever to-night, and no wonder. 
I would give anything to be able to pay a visit to St. Sava's, and see my wife again--if it
were only sleeping in her tomb.  But I dare not do even that, lest she should come to see me
here, and I should miss her.  So I have done what I can.  The glass door to the Terrace is
open, so that she can enter at once if she comes.  The fire is lit, and the room is warm. 
There is food ready in case she should care for it.  I have plenty of light in the room, so
that through the aperture where I have not fully drawn the curtain there may be light to guide her.

Oh, how the time drags!  The clock has struck midnight.  One, two!  Thank goodness, it will
shortly be dawn, and the activity of the day may begin! Work may again prove, in a way, to
be an anodyne.  In the meantime I must write on, lest despair overwhelm me.

Once during the night I thought I heard a footstep outside.  I rushed to the window and looked
out, but there was nothing to see, no sound to hear.  That was a little after one o'clock.
I feared to go outside, lest that should alarm her; so I came back to my table.  I could not
write, but I sat as if writing for a while.  But I could not stand it, so rose and walked about
the room.  As I walked I felt that my Lady--it gives me a pang every time I remember that I
do not know even her name--was not quite so far away from me.  It made my heart beat to think
that it might mean that she was coming to me.  Could not I as well as Aunt Janet have a little
Second Sight!  I went towards the window, and, standing behind the curtain, listened.  Far
away I thought I heard a cry, and ran out on the Terrace; but there was no sound to be heard,
and no sign of any living thing anywhere; so I took it for granted that it was the cry of some
night bird, and came back to my room, and wrote at my journal till I was calm.  I think my
nerves must be getting out of order, when every sound of the night seems to have a special
meaning for me.

RUPERT'S JOURNAL--Continued.

                                                            July 7, 1907

When the grey of the morning came, I gave up hope of my wife appearing, and made up my mind
that, so soon as I could get away without exciting Aunt Janet's attention, I would go to St.
Sava's.  I always eat a good breakfast, and did I forgo it altogether, it would be sure to
excite her curiosity--a thing I do not wish at present.  As there was still time to wait, I
lay down on my bed as I was, and--such is the way of Fate--shortly fell asleep.

I was awakened by a terrific clattering at my door.  When I opened it I found a little group
of servants, very apologetic at awaking me without instructions.  The chief of them explained
that a young priest had come from the Vladika with a message so urgent that he insisted on
seeing me immediately at all hazards.  I came out at once, and found him in the hall of the
Castle, standing before the great fire, which was always lit in the early morning.  He had
a letter in his hand, but before giving it to me he said:

"I am sent by the Vladika, who pressed on me that I was not to lose a single instant in seeing
you; that time is of golden price--nay, beyond price.  This letter, amongst other things, vouches
for me.  A terrible misfortune has occurred.  The daughter of our leader has disappeared during
last night--the same, he commanded me to remind you, that he spoke of at the meeting when he
would not let the mountaineers fire their guns. No sign of her can be found, and it is believed
that she has been carried off by the emissaries of the Sultan of Turkey, who once before brought
our nations to the verge of war by demanding her as a wife.  I was also to say that the Vladika
Plamenac would have come himself, but that it was necessary that he should at once consult
with the Archbishop, Stevan Palealogue, as to what step is best to take in this dire calamity.
He has sent out a search-party under the Archimandrite of Spazac, Petrof Vlastimir, who is
to come on here with any news he can get, as you have command of the signalling, and can best
spread the news.  He knows that you, Gospodar, are in your great heart one of our compatriots,
and that you have already proved your friendship by many efforts to strengthen our hands for
war.  And as a great compatriot, he calls on you to aid us in our need."  He then handed me
the letter, and stood by respectfully whilst I broke the seal and read it.  It was written
in great haste, and signed by the Vladika.

"Come with us now in our nation's peril.  Help us to rescue what we most adore, and henceforth
we shall hold you in our hearts.  You shall learn how the men of the Blue Mountains can love
faith and valour.  Come!"

This was a task indeed--a duty worthy of any man.  It thrilled me to the core to know that
the men of the Blue Mountains had called on me in their dire need.  It woke all the fighting
instinct of my Viking forbears, and I vowed in my heart that they should be satisfied with
my work.  I called to me the corps of signallers who were in the house, and led them to the
Castle roof, taking with me the young messenger-priest.

"Come with me," I said to him, "and see how I answer the Vladika's command."

The National flag was run up--the established signal that the nation was in need.  Instantly
on every summit near and far was seen the flutter of an answering flag.  Quickly followed the
signal that commanded the call to arms.

One by one I gave the signallers orders in quick succession, for the plan of search unfolded
itself to me as I went on.  The arms of the semaphore whirled in a way that made the young
priest stare.  One by one, as they took their orders, the signallers seemed to catch fire.
Instinctively they understood the plan, and worked like demigods.  They knew that so widespread
a movement had its best chance in rapidity and in unity of action.

From the forest which lay in sight of the Castle came a wild cheering, which seemed to interpret
the former stillness of the hills.  It was good to feel that those who saw the signals--types
of many--were ready.  I saw the look of expectation on the face of the messenger-priest, and
rejoiced at the glow that came as I turned to him to speak.  Of course, he wanted to know something
of what was going on.  I saw the flashing of my own eyes reflected in his as I spoke:

"Tell the Vladika that within a minute of his message being read the Land of the Blue Mountains
was awake.  The mountaineers are already marching, and before the sun is high there will be
a line of guards within hail of each other round the whole frontier--from Angusa to Ilsin;
from Ilsin to Bajana; from Bajana to Ispazar; from Ispazar to Volok; from Volok to Tatra; from
Tatra to Domitan; from Domitan to Gravaja; and from Gravaja back to Angusa.  The line is double.
The old men keep guard on the line, and the young men advance.  These will close in at the
advancing line, so that nothing can escape them.  They will cover mountain-top and forest depth,
and will close in finally on the Castle here, which they can behold from afar.  My own yacht
is here, and will sweep the coast from end to end.  It is the fastest boat afloat, and armed
against a squadron. Here will all signals come.  In an hour where we stand will be a signal
bureau, where trained eyes will watch night and day till the lost one has been found and the
outrage has been avenged.  The robbers are even now within a ring of steel, and cannot escape."

The young priest, all on fire, sprang on the battlements and shouted to the crowd, which was
massing round the Castle in the gardens far below. The forest was giving up its units till
they seemed like the nucleus of an army.  The men cheered lustily, till the sound swung high
up to us like the roaring of a winter sea.  With bared heads they were crying:

"God and the Blue Mountains!  God and the Blue Mountains!"

I ran down to them as quickly as I could, and began to issue their instructions.  Within a
time to be computed by minutes the whole number, organized by sections, had started to scour
the neighbouring mountains. At first they had only understood the call to arms for general
safety. But when they learned that the daughter of a chief had been captured, they simply went
mad.  From something which the messenger first said, but which I could not catch or did not
understand, the blow seemed to have for them some sort of personal significance which wrought
them to a frenzy.

When the bulk of the men had disappeared, I took with me a few of my own men and several of
the mountaineers whom I had asked to remain, and together we went to the hidden ravine which
I knew.  We found the place empty; but there were unmistakable signs that a party of men had
been encamped there for several days.  Some of our men, who were skilled in woodcraft and in
signs generally, agreed that there must have been some twenty of them.  As they could not find
any trail either coming to or going from the place, they came to the conclusion that they must
have come separately from different directions and gathered there, and that they must have
departed in something of the same mysterious way.

However, this was, at any rate, some sort of a beginning, and the men separated, having agreed
amongst themselves to make a wide cast round the place in the search for tracks.  Whoever should
find a trail was to follow with at least one comrade, and when there was any definite news,
it was to be signalled to the Castle.

I myself returned at once, and set the signallers to work to spread amongst our own people
such news as we had.

When presently such discoveries as had been made were signalled with flags to the Castle, it
was found that the marauders had, in their flight, followed a strangely zigzag course.  It
was evident that, in trying to baffle pursuit, they had tried to avoid places which they thought
might be dangerous to them.  This may have been simply a method to disconcert pursuit.  If
so, it was, in a measure, excellent, for none of those immediately following could possibly
tell in what direction they were heading.  It was only when we worked the course on the great
map in the signaller's room (which was the old guard room of the Castle) that we could get
an inkling of the general direction of their flight.  This gave added trouble to the pursuit;
for the men who followed, being ignorant of their general intent, could not ever take chance
to head them off, but had to be ready to follow in any or every direction.  In this manner
the pursuit was altogether a stern chase, and therefore bound to be a long one.

As at present we could not do anything till the intended route was more marked, I left the
signalling corps to the task of receiving and giving information to the moving bands, so that,
if occasion served, they might head off the marauders.  I myself took Rooke, as captain of
the yacht, and swept out of the creek.  We ran up north to Dalairi, then down south to Olesso,
and came back to Vissarion.  We saw nothing suspicious except, far off to the extreme southward,
one warship which flew no flag.  Rooke, however, who seemed to know ships by instinct, said
she was a Turk; so on our return we signalled along the whole shore to watch her.  Rooke held
The Lady--which was the name I had given the armoured yacht--in readiness to dart out in case
anything suspicious was reported.  He was not to stand on any ceremony, but if necessary to
attack.  We did not intend to lose a point in this desperate struggle which we had undertaken.
We had placed in different likely spots a couple of our own men to look after the signalling.

When I got back I found that the route of the fugitives, who had now joined into one party,
had been definitely ascertained.  They had gone south, but manifestly taking alarm from the
advancing line of guards, had headed up again to the north-east, where the country was broader
and the mountains wilder and less inhabited.

Forthwith, leaving the signalling altogether in the hands of the fighting priests, I took a
small chosen band of the mountaineers of our own district, and made, with all the speed we
could, to cut across the track of the fugitives a little ahead of them.  The Archimandrite
(Abbot) of Spazac, who had just arrived, came with us.  He is a splendid man--a real fighter
as well as a holy cleric, as good with his handjar as with his Bible, and a runner to beat
the band.  The marauders were going at a fearful pace, considering that they were all afoot;
so we had to go fast also!  Amongst these mountains there is no other means of progressing.
Our own men were so aflame with ardour that I could not but notice that they, more than any
of the others whom I had seen, had some special cause for concern.

When I mentioned it to the Archimandrite, who moved by my side, he answered:

"All natural enough; they are not only fighting for their country, but for their own!"  I did
not quite understand his answer, and so began to ask him some questions, to the effect that
I soon began to understand a good deal more than he did.

Letter from Archbishop Stevan Palealogue, Head of the Eastern Church of the Blue Mountains,
to the Lady Janet MacKelpie, Vissarion.

                                                   Written July 9, 1907.

    HONOURED LADY,

    As you wish for an understanding regarding the late lamentable
    occurrence in which so much danger was incurred to this our Land of
    the Blue Mountains, and one dear to us, I send these words by request
    of the Gospodar Rupert, beloved of our mountaineers.

    When the Voivode Peter Vissarion made his journey to the great nation
    to whom we looked in our hour of need, it was necessary that he
    should go in secret.  The Turk was at our gates, and full of the
    malice of baffled greed.  Already he had tried to arrange a marriage
    with the Voivodin, so that in time to come he, as her husband, might
    have established a claim to the inheritance of the land.  Well he
    knew, as do all men, that the Blue Mountaineers owe allegiance to
    none that they themselves do not appoint to rulership.  This has been
    the history in the past.  But now and again an individual has arisen
    or come to the front adapted personally for such government as this
    land requires.  And so the Lady Teuta, Voivodin of the Blue
    Mountains, was put for her proper guarding in the charge of myself as
    Head of the Eastern Church in the Land of the Blue Mountains, steps
    being taken in such wise that no capture of her could be effected by
    unscrupulous enemies of this our Land.  This task and guardianship
    was gladly held as an honour by all concerned.  For the Voivodin
    Teuta of Vissarion must be taken as representing in her own person
    the glory of the old Serb race, inasmuch as being the only child of
    the Voivode Vissarion, last male of his princely race--the race which
    ever, during the ten centuries of our history, unflinchingly gave
    life and all they held for the protection, safety, and well-being of
    the Land of the Blue Mountains.  Never during those centuries had any
    one of the race been known to fail in patriotism, or to draw back
    from any loss or hardship enjoined by high duty or stress of need.
    Moreover, this was the race of that first Voivode Vissarion, of whom,
    in legend, it was prophesied that he--once known as "The Sword of
    Freedom," a giant amongst men--would some day, when the nation had
    need of him, come forth from his water-tomb in the lost Lake of Reo,
    and lead once more the men of the Blue Mountains to lasting victory.
    This noble race, then, had come to be known as the last hope of the
    Land.  So that when the Voivode was away on his country's service,
    his daughter should be closely guarded.  Soon after the Voivode had
    gone, it was reported that he might be long delayed in his
    diplomacies, and also in studying the system of Constitutional
    Monarchy, for which it had been hoped to exchange our imperfect
    political system.  I may say inter alia that he was mentioned as to
    be the first king when the new constitution should have been
    arranged.

    Then a great misfortune came on us; a terrible grief overshadowed the
    land.  After a short illness, the Voivodin Teuta Vissarion died
    mysteriously of a mysterious ailment.  The grief of the mountaineers
    was so great that it became necessary for the governing Council to
    warn them not to allow their sorrow to be seen.  It was imperatively
    necessary that the fact of her death should be kept secret.  For
    there were dangers and difficulties of several kinds.  In the first
    place it was advisable that even her father should be kept in
    ignorance of his terrible loss.  It was well known that he held her
    as the very core of his heart and that if he should hear of her
    death, he would be too much prostrated to be able to do the intricate
    and delicate work which he had undertaken.  Nay, more: he would never
    remain afar off, under the sad circumstances, but would straightway
    return, so as to be in the land where she lay.  Then suspicions would
    crop up, and the truth must shortly be known afield, with the
    inevitable result that the Land would become the very centre of a war
    of many nations.

    In the second place, if the Turks were to know that the race of
    Vissarion was becoming extinct, this would encourage them to further
    aggression, which would become immediate should they find out that
    the Voivode was himself away.  It was well known that they were
    already only suspending hostilities until a fitting opportunity
    should arise.  Their desire for aggression had become acute after the
    refusal of the nation, and of the girl herself, that she should
    become a wife of the Sultan.

    The dead girl had been buried in the Crypt of the church of St. Sava,
    and day after day and night after night, singly and in parties, the
    sorrowing mountaineers had come to pay devotion and reverence at her
    tomb.  So many had wished to have a last glimpse of her face that the
    Vladika had, with my own consent as Archbishop, arranged for a glass
    cover to be put over the stone coffin wherein her body lay.

    After a little time, however, there came a belief to all concerned in
    the guarding of the body--these, of course, being the priests of
    various degrees of dignity appointed to the task--that the Voivodin
    was not really dead, but only in a strangely-prolonged trance.
    Thereupon a new complication arose.  Our mountaineers are, as perhaps
    you know, by nature deeply suspicious--a characteristic of all brave
    and self-sacrificing people who are jealous of their noble heritage.
    Having, as they believed, seen the girl dead, they might not be
    willing to accept the fact of her being alive.  They might even
    imagine that there was on foot some deep, dark plot which was, or
    might be, a menace, now or hereafter, to their independence.  In any
    case, there would be certain to be two parties on the subject, a
    dangerous and deplorable thing in the present condition of affairs.

    As the trance, or catalepsy, whatever it was, continued for many
    days, there had been ample time for the leaders of the Council, the
    Vladika, the priesthood represented by the Archimandrite of Spazac,
    myself as Archbishop and guardian of the Voivodin in her father's
    absence, to consult as to a policy to be observed in case of the girl
    awaking.  For in such case the difficulty of the situation would be
    multiplied indefinitely.  In the secret chambers of St. Sava's we had
    many secret meetings, and were finally converging on agreement when
    the end of the trance came.

    The girl awoke!

    She was, of course, terribly frightened when she found herself in a
    tomb in the Crypt.  It was truly fortunate that the great candles
    around her tomb had been kept lighted, for their light mitigated the
    horror of the place.  Had she waked in darkness, her reason might
    have become unseated.

    She was, however, a very noble girl; brave, with extraordinary will,
    and resolution, and self-command, and power of endurance.  When she
    had been taken into one of the secret chambers of the church, where
    she was warmed and cared for, a hurried meeting was held by the
    Vladika, myself, and the chiefs of the National Council.  Word had
    been at once sent to me of the joyful news of her recovery; and with
    the utmost haste I came, arriving in time to take a part in the
    Council.

    At the meeting the Voivodin was herself present, and full confidence
    of the situation was made to her.  She herself proposed that the
    belief in her death should be allowed to prevail until the return of
    her father, when all could be effectively made clear.  To this end
    she undertook to submit to the terrific strain which such a
    proceeding would involve.  At first we men could not believe that any
    woman could go through with such a task, and some of us did not
    hesitate to voice our doubts--our disbelief.  But she stood to her
    guns, and actually down-faced us.  At the last we, remembering things
    that had been done, though long ages ago, by others of her race, came
    to believe not merely in her self-belief and intention, but even in
    the feasibility of her plan.  She took the most solemn oaths not to
    betray the secret under any possible stress.

    The priesthood undertook through the Vladika and myself to further a
    ghostly belief amongst the mountaineers which would tend to prevent a
    too close or too persistent observation.  The Vampire legend was
    spread as a protection against partial discovery by any mischance,
    and other weird beliefs were set afoot and fostered.  Arrangements
    were made that only on certain days were the mountaineers to be
    admitted to the Crypt, she agreeing that for these occasions she was
    to take opiates or carry out any other aid to the preservation of the
    secret.  She was willing, she impressed upon us, to make any personal
    sacrifice which might be deemed necessary for the carrying out her
    father's task for the good of the nation.

    Of course, she had at first terrible frights lying alone in the
    horror of the Crypt.  But after a time the terrors of the situation,
    if they did not cease, were mitigated.  There are secret caverns off
    the Crypt, wherein in troublous times the priests and others of high
    place have found safe retreat.  One of these was prepared for the
    Voivodin, and there she remained, except for such times as she was on
    show--and certain other times of which I shall tell you.  Provision
    was made for the possibility of any accidental visit to the church.
    At such times, warned by an automatic signal from the opening door,
    she was to take her place in the tomb.  The mechanism was so arranged
    that the means to replace the glass cover, and to take the opiate,
    were there ready to her hand.  There was to be always a watch of
    priests at night in the church, to guard her from ghostly fears as
    well as from more physical dangers; and if she was actually in her
    tomb, it was to be visited at certain intervals.  Even the draperies
    which covered her in the sarcophagus were rested on a bridge placed
    from side to side just above her, so as to hide the rising and
    falling of her bosom as she slept under the narcotic.

    After a while the prolonged strain began to tell so much on her that
    it was decided that she should take now and again exercise out of
    doors.  This was not difficult, for when the Vampire story which we
    had spread began to be widely known, her being seen would be accepted
    as a proof of its truth.  Still, as there was a certain danger in her
    being seen at all, we thought it necessary to exact from her a solemn
    oath that so long as her sad task lasted she should under no
    circumstances ever wear any dress but her shroud--this being the only
    way to insure secrecy and to prevail against accident.

    There is a secret way from the Crypt to a sea cavern, whose entrance
    is at high-tide under the water-line at the base of the cliff on
    which the church is built.  A boat, shaped like a coffin, was
    provided for her; and in this she was accustomed to pass across the
    creek whenever she wished to make excursion.  It was an excellent
    device, and most efficacious in disseminating the Vampire belief.

    This state of things had now lasted from before the time when the
    Gospodar Rupert came to Vissarion up to the day of the arrival of the
    armoured yacht.

    That night the priest on duty, on going his round of the Crypt just
    before dawn, found the tomb empty.  He called the others, and they
    made full search.  The boat was gone from the cavern, but on making
    search they found it on the farther side of the creek, close to the
    garden stairs.  Beyond this they could discover nothing.  She seemed
    to have disappeared without leaving a trace.

    Straightway they went to the Vladika, and signalled to me by the
    fire-signal at the monastery at Astrag, where I then was.  I took a
    band of mountaineers with me, and set out to scour the country.  But
    before going I sent an urgent message to the Gospodar Rupert, asking
    him, who showed so much interest and love to our Land, to help us in
    our trouble.  He, of course, knew nothing then of all have now told
    you.  Nevertheless, he devoted himself whole-heartedly to our
    needs--as doubtless you know.

    But the time had now come close when the Voivode Vissarion was about
    to return from his mission; and we of the council of his daughter's
    guardianship were beginning to arrange matters so that at his return
    the good news of her being still alive could be made public.  With
    her father present to vouch for her, no question as to truth could
    arise.

    But by some means the Turkish "Bureau of Spies" must have got
    knowledge of the fact already.  To steal a dead body for the purpose
    of later establishing a fictitious claim would have been an
    enterprise even more desperate than that already undertaken.  We
    inferred from many signs, made known to us in an investigation, that
    a daring party of the Sultan's emissaries had made a secret incursion
    with the object of kidnapping the Voivodin.  They must have been bold
    of heart and strong of resource to enter the Land of the Blue
    Mountains on any errand, let alone such a desperate one as this.  For
    centuries we have been teaching the Turk through bitter lessons that
    it is neither a safe task nor an easy one to make incursion here.

    How they did it we know not--at present; but enter they did, and,
    after waiting in some secret hiding-place for a favourable
    opportunity, secured their prey.  We know not even now whether they
    had found entrance to the Crypt and stole, as they thought, the dead
    body, or whether, by some dire mischance, they found her
    abroad--under her disguise as a ghost.  At any rate, they had
    captured her, and through devious ways amongst the mountains were
    bearing her back to Turkey.  It was manifest that when she was on
    Turkish soil the Sultan would force a marriage on her so as
    eventually to secure for himself or his successors as against all
    other nations a claim for the suzerainty or guardianship of the Blue
    Mountains.

    Such was the state of affairs when the Gospodar Rupert threw himself
    into the pursuit with fiery zeal and the Berserk passion which he
    inherited from Viking ancestors, whence of old came "The Sword of
    Freedom" himself.

    But at that very time was another possibility which the Gospodar was
    himself the first to realize.  Failing the getting the Voivodin safe
    to Turkish soil, the ravishers might kill her!  This would be
    entirely in accord with the base traditions and history of the
    Moslems.  So, too, it would accord with Turkish customs and the
    Sultan's present desires.  It would, in its way, benefit the ultimate
    strategetic ends of Turkey.  For were once the Vissarion race at an
    end, the subjection of the Land of the Blue Mountains might, in their
    view, be an easier task than it had yet been found to be.

    Such, illustrious lady, were the conditions of affairs when the
    Gospodar Rupert first drew his handjar for the Blue Mountains and
    what it held most dear.

                                                               PALEALOGUE,
              Archbishop of the Eastern Church, in the Land of the Blue
                                                               Mountains.

RUPERT'S JOURNAL--Continued.

                                                           July 8, 1907.

I wonder if ever in the long, strange history of the world had there come to any other such
glad tidings as came to me--and even then rather inferentially than directly--from the Archimandrite's
answers to my questioning.  Happily I was able to restrain myself, or I should have created
some strange confusion which might have evoked distrust, and would certainly have hampered
us in our pursuit.  For a little I could hardly accept the truth which wove itself through
my brain as the true inwardness of each fact came home to me and took its place in the whole
fabric.  But even the most welcome truth has to be accepted some time by even a doubting heart.
My heart, whatever it may have been, was not then a doubting heart, but a very, very grateful
one.  It was only the splendid magnitude of the truth which forbade its immediate acceptance.
I could have shouted for joy, and only stilled myself by keeping my thoughts fixed on the danger
which my wife was in.  My wife!  My wife! Not a Vampire; not a poor harassed creature doomed
to terrible woe, but a splendid woman, brave beyond belief, patriotic in a way which has but
few peers even in the wide history of bravery!  I began to understand the true meaning of the
strange occurrences that have come into my life. Even the origin and purpose of that first
strange visit to my room became clear.  No wonder that the girl could move about the Castle
in so mysterious a manner.  She had lived there all her life, and was familiar with the secret
ways of entrance and exit.  I had always believed that the place must have been honeycombed
with secret passages.  No wonder that she could find a way to the battlements, mysterious to
everybody else.  No wonder that she could meet me at the Flagstaff when she so desired.

To say that I was in a tumult would be to but faintly express my condition.  I was rapt into
a heaven of delight which had no measure in all my adventurous life--the lifting of the veil
which showed that my wife--mine--won in all sincerity in the very teeth of appalling difficulties
and dangers--was no Vampire, no corpse, no ghost or phantom, but a real woman of flesh and
blood, of affection, and love, and passion. Now at last would my love be crowned indeed when,
having rescued her from the marauders, I should bear her to my own home, where she would live
and reign in peace and comfort and honour, and in love and wifely happiness if I could achieve
such a blessing for her--and for myself.

But here a dreadful thought flashed across me, which in an instant turned my joy to despair,
my throbbing heart to ice:

"As she is a real woman, she is in greater danger than ever in the hands of Turkish ruffians.
To them a woman is in any case no more than a sheep; and if they cannot bring her to the harem
of the Sultan, they may deem it the next wisest step to kill her.  In that way, too, they might
find a better chance of escape.  Once rid of her the party could separate, and there might
be a chance of some of them finding escape as individuals that would not exist for a party.
But even if they did not kill her, to escape with her would be to condemn her to the worst
fate of all the harem of the Turk!  Lifelong misery and despair--however long that life might
be--must be the lot of a Christian woman doomed to such a lot.  And to her, just happily wedded,
and after she had served her country in such a noble way as she had done, that dreadful life
of shameful slavery would be a misery beyond belief.

"She must be rescued--and quickly!  The marauders must be caught soon, and suddenly, so that
they may have neither time nor opportunity to harm her, as they would be certain to do if they
have warning of immediate danger.

"On! on!"

And "on" it was all through that terrible night as well as we could through the forest.

It was a race between the mountaineers and myself as to who should be first.  I understood
now the feeling that animated them, and which singled them out even from amongst their fiery
comrades, when the danger of the Voivodin became known.  These men were no mean contestants
even in such a race, and, strong as I am, it took my utmost effort to keep ahead of them. 
They were keen as leopards, and as swift.  Their lives had been spent among the mountains,
and their hearts and souls on were in the chase.  I doubt not that if the death of any one
of us could have through any means effected my wife's release, we should, if necessary, have
fought amongst ourselves for the honour.

From the nature of the work before us our party had to keep to the top of the hills.  We had
not only to keep observation on the flying party whom we followed, and to prevent them making
discovery of us, but we had to be always in a position to receive and answer signals made to
us from the Castle, or sent to us from other eminences.

Letter from Petrof Vlastimir, Archimandrite of Spazac, to the Lady Janet MacKelpie, of Vissarion.

                                                   Written July 8, 1907.

    GREAT LADY,

    I am asked to write by the Vladika, and have permission of the
    Archbishop.  I have the honour of transmitting to you the record of
    the pursuit of the Turkish spies who carried off the Voivodin Teuta,
    of the noble House of Vissarion.  The pursuit was undertaken by the
    Gospodar Rupert, who asked that I would come with his party, since
    what he was so good as to call my "great knowledge of the country and
    its people" might serve much.  It is true that I have had much
    knowledge of the Land of the Blue Mountains and its people, amongst
    which and whom my whole life has been passed.  But in such a cause no
    reason was required.  There was not a man in the Blue Mountains who
    would not have given his life for the Voivodin Teuta, and when they
    heard that she had not been dead, as they thought, but only in a
    trance, and that it was she whom the marauders had carried off, they
    were in a frenzy.  So why should I--to whom has been given the great
    trust of the Monastery of Spazac--hesitate at such a time?  For
    myself, I wanted to hurry on, and to come at once to the fight with
    my country's foes; and well I knew that the Gospodar Rupert, with a
    lion's heart meet for his giant body, would press on with a matchless
    speed.  We of the Blue Mountains do not lag when our foes are in
    front of us; most of all do we of the Eastern Church press on when
    the Crescent wars against the Cross!

    We took with us no gear or hamper of any kind; no coverings except
    what we stood in; no food--nothing but our handjars and our rifles,
    with a sufficiency of ammunition.  Before starting, the Gospodar gave
    hurried orders by signal from the Castle to have food and ammunition
    sent to us (as we might signal) by the nearest hamlet.

    It was high noon when we started, only ten strong--for our leader
    would take none but approved runners who could shoot straight and use
    the handjar as it should be used.  So as we went light, we expected
    to go fast.  By this time we knew from the reports signalled to
    Vissarion that the enemies were chosen men of no despicable prowess.

    The Keeper of the Green Flag of Islam is well served, and as though
    the Turk is an infidel and a dog, he is sometimes brave and strong.
    Indeed, except when he passes the confines of the Blue Mountains, he
    has been known to do stirring deeds.  But as none who have dared to
    wander in amongst our hills ever return to their own land, we may not
    know of how they speak at home of their battles here.  Still, these
    men were evidently not to be despised; and our Gospodar, who is a
    wise man as well as a valiant, warned us to be prudent, and not to
    despise our foes over much.  We did as he counselled, and in proof we
    only took ten men, as we had only twenty against us.  But then there
    was at stake much beyond life, and we took no risks.  So, as the
    great clock at Vissarion clanged of noon, the eight fastest runners
    of the Blue Mountains, together with the Gospodar Rupert and myself,
    swept out on our journey.  It had been signalled to us that the
    course which the marauders had as yet taken in their flight was a
    zigzag one, running eccentrically at all sorts of angles in all sorts
    of directions.  But our leader had marked out a course where we might
    intercept our foes across the main line of their flight; and till we
    had reached that region we paused not a second, but went as fast as
    we could all night long.  Indeed, it was amongst us a race as was the
    Olympic race of old Greece, each one vying with his fellows, though
    not in jealous emulation, but in high spirit, to best serve his
    country and the Voivodin Teuta.  Foremost amongst us went the
    Gospodar, bearing himself as a Paladin of old, his mighty form
    pausing for no obstacle.  Perpetually did he urge us on.  He would
    not stop or pause for a moment, but often as he and I ran
    together--for, lady, in my youth I was the fleetest of all in the
    race, and even that now can head a battalion when duty calls--he
    would ask me certain questions as to the Lady Teuta and of the
    strange manner of her reputed death, as it was gradually unfolded in
    my answers to his questioning.  And as each new phase of knowledge
    came to him, he would rush on as one possessed of fiends: whereat our
    mountaineers, who seem to respect even fiends for their thoroughness,
    would strive to keep pace with him till they too seemed worked into
    diabolic possession.  And I myself, left alone in the calmness of
    sacerdotal office, forgot even that.  With surging ears and eyes that
    saw blood, I rushed along with best of them.

    Then truly the spirit of a great captain showed itself in the
    Gospodar, for when others were charged with fury he began to force
    himself into calm, so that out of his present self-command and the
    memory of his exalted position came a worthy strategy and thought for
    every contingency that might arise.  So that when some new direction
    was required for our guidance, there was no hesitation in its coming.
    We, nine men of varying kinds, all felt that we had a master; and so,
    being willing to limit ourselves to strict obedience, we were free to
    use such thoughts as well as such powers as we had to the best
    advantage of the doing.

    We came across the trail of the flying marauders on the second
    morning after the abduction, a little before noon.  It was easy
    enough to see, for by this time the miscreants were all together, and
    our people, who were woodlanders, were able to tell much of the party
    that passed.  These were evidently in a terrified hurry, for they had
    taken no precautions such as are necessary baffle pursuit, and all of
    which take time.  Our foresters said that two went ahead and two
    behind.  In the centre went the mass, moving close together, as
    though surrounding their prisoner.  We caught not even a single
    glimpse her--could not have, they encompassed her so closely.  But
    our foresters saw other than the mass; the ground that had been
    passed was before them.  They knew that the prisoner had gone
    unwillingly--nay, more: one of them said as he rose from his knees,
    where he had been examining of the ground:

    "The misbegotten dogs have been urging her on with their yataghans!
    There are drops of blood, though there are no blood-marks on her
    feet."

    Whereupon the Gospodar flamed with passion.  His teeth ground
    together, and with a deep-breathed "On, on!" he sprang off again,
    handjar in hand, on the track.

    Before long we saw the party in the distance.  They this were far
    below us in a deep valley, although the track of their going passed
    away to the right hand.  They were making for the base of the great
    cliff, which rose before us all.  Their reason was twofold, as we
    soon knew.  Far off down the valley which they were crossing we saw
    signs of persons coming in haste, who must be of the search party
    coming from the north.  Though the trees hid them, we could not
    mistake the signs.  I was myself forester enough to have no doubt.
    Again, it was evident that the young Voivodin could travel no longer
    at the dreadful pace at which they had been going.  Those blood-marks
    told their own tale!  They meant to make a last stand here in case
    they should be discovered.

    Then it was that he, who amongst us all had been most fierce and most
    bent on rapid pursuit, became the most the calm.  Raising his hand
    for silence--though, God knows, we were and had been silent enough
    during that long rush through the forest--he said, in a low, keen
    whisper which cut the silence like a knife:

    "My friends, the time is come for action.  God be thanked, who has
    now brought us face to face with our foes!  But we must be careful
    here--not on our own account, for we wish nothing more than to rush
    on and conquer or die--but for the sake of her whom you love, and
    whom I, too, love.  She is in danger from anything which may give
    warning to those fiends.  If they know or even suspect for an instant
    that we are near, they will murder her . . . "

    Here his voice broke for an instant with the extremity of his passion
    or the depth of his feeling--I hardly know which; I think both acted
    on him.

    "We know from those blood-marks what they can do--even to her."  His
    teeth ground together again, but he went on without stopping further:

    "Let us arrange the battle.  Though we are but little distance from
    them as the crow flies, the way is far to travel.  There is, I can
    see, but one path down to the valley from this side.  That they have
    gone by, and that they will sure to guard--to watch, at any rate.
    Let us divide, as to surround them.  The cliff towards which they
    make runs far to the left without a break.  That to the right we
    cannot see from this spot; but from the nature of the ground it is
    not unlikely that it turns round in this direction, making the hither
    end of the valley like a vast pocket or amphitheatre.  As they have
    studied the ground in other places, they may have done so in this,
    and have come hither as to a known refuge.  Let one man, a marksman,
    stay here."

    As he spoke a man stepped to the front.  He was, I knew, an excellent
    shot.

    "Let two others go to the left and try to find a way down the cliff
    before us.  When they have descended to the level of the valley--path
    or no path--let them advance cautiously and secretly, keeping their
    guns in readiness.  But they must not fire till need.  Remember, my
    brothers," said, turning to those who stepped out a pace or two to
    the left, "that the first shot gives the warning which will be the
    signal for the Voivodin's death.  These men will not hesitate.  You
    must judge yourselves of the time to shoot.  The others of us will
    move to the right and try to find a path on that side.  If the valley
    be indeed a pocket between the cliffs, we must find a way down that
    is not a path!"

    As he spoke thus there was a blaze in his eyes that betokened no good
    to aught that might stand in his way.  I ran by his side as we moved
    to the right.

    It was as he surmised about the cliff.  When we got a little on our
    way we saw how the rocky formation trended to our right, till,
    finally, with a wide curve, it came round to the other side.

    It was a fearful valley that, with its narrow girth and its towering
    walls that seemed to topple over.  On the farther side from us the
    great trees that clothed the slope of the mountain over it grew down
    to the very edge of the rock, so that their spreading branches hung
    far over the chasm.  And, so far as we could understand, the same
    condition existed on our own side.  Below us the valley was dark even
    in the daylight.  We could best tell the movement of the flying
    marauders by the flashes of the white shroud of their captive in the
    midst of them.

    From where we were grouped, amid the great tree-trunks on the very
    brow of the cliff, we could, when our eyes were accustomed to the
    shadow, see them quite well.  In great haste, and half dragging, half
    carrying the Voivodin, they crossed the open space and took refuge in
    a little grassy alcove surrounded, save for its tortuous entrance, by
    undergrowth.  From the valley level it was manifestly impossible to
    see them, though we from our altitude could see over the stunted
    undergrowth.  When within the glade, they took their hands from her.
    She, shuddering instinctively, withdrew to a remote corner of the
    dell.

    And then, oh, shame on their manhood!--Turks and heathens though they
    were--we could see that they had submitted her to the indignity of
    gagging her and binding her hands!

    Our Voivodin Teuta bound!  To one and all of us it was like lashing
    us across the face.  I heard the Gospodar's teeth grind again.  But
    once more he schooled himself to calmness ere he said:

    "It is, perhaps, as well, great though the indignity be.  They are
    seeking their own doom, which is coming quickly . . . Moreover, they
    are thwarting their own base plans.  Now that she is bound they will
    trust to their binding, so that they will delay their murderous
    alternative to the very last moment.  Such is our chance of rescuing
    her alive!"

    For a few moments he stood as still as a stone, as though revolving
    something in his mind whilst he watched.  I could see that some grim
    resolution was forming in his mind, for his eyes ranged to the top of
    the trees above cliff, and down again, very slowly this time, as
    though measuring and studying the detail of what was in front of him.
    Then he spoke:

    "They are in hopes that the other pursuing party may not come across
    them.  To know that, they are waiting.  If those others do not come
    up the valley, they will proceed on their way.  They will return up
    the path the way they came.  There we can wait them, charge into the
    middle of them when she is opposite, and cut down those around her.
    Then the others will open fire, and we shall be rid of them!

    Whilst he was speaking, two of the men of our party, who I knew to be
    good sharpshooters, and who had just before lain on their faces and
    had steadied their rifles to shoot, rose to their feet.

    "Command us, Gospodar!" they said simply, as they stood to attention.
    "Shall we go to the head of the ravine road and there take hiding?"
    He thought for perhaps a minute, whilst we all stood as silent as
    images.  I could hear our hearts beating.  Then he said:

    "No, not yet.  There is time for that yet.  They will not--cannot
    stir or make plans in any way till they know whether the other party
    is coming towards them or not.  From our height here we can see what
    course the others are taking long before those villains do.  Then we
    can make our plans and be ready in time."

    We waited many minutes, but could see no further signs the other
    pursuing party.  These had evidently adopted greater caution in their
    movements as they came closer to where they expected to find the
    enemy.  The marauders began to grow anxious.  Even at our distance we
    could gather as much from their attitude and movements.

    Presently, when the suspense of their ignorance grew too much for
    them, they drew to the entrance of the glade, which was the farthest
    place to which, without exposing themselves to anyone who might come
    to the valley, they could withdraw from their captive.  Here they
    consulted together.  We could follow from their gestures what they
    were saying, for as they did not wish their prisoner to hear, their
    gesticulation was enlightening to us as to each other.  Our people,
    like all mountaineers, have good eyes, and the Gospodar is himself an
    eagle in this as in other ways.  Three men stood back from the rest.
    They stacked their rifles so that they could seize them easily.  Then
    they drew their scimitars, and stood ready, as though on guard.

    These were evidently the appointed murderers.  Well they knew their
    work; for though they stood in a desert place with none within long
    distance except the pursuing party, of whose approach they would have
    good notice, they stood so close to their prisoner that no marksman
    in the world--now or that ever had been; not William Tell
    himself--could have harmed any of them without at least endangering
    her.  Two of them turned the Voivodin round so that her face was
    towards the precipice--in which position she could not see what was
    going on--whilst he who was evidently leader of the gang explained,
    in gesture, that the others were going to spy upon the pursuing
    party.  When they had located them he, or one of his men, would come
    out of the opening of the wood wherein they had had evidence of them,
    and hold up his hand.

    That was to be the signal for the cutting of the victim's
    throat--such being the chosen method (villainous even for heathen
    murderers) of her death.  There was not one of our men who did not
    grind his teeth when we witnessed the grim action, only too
    expressive, of the Turk as he drew his right hand, clenched as though
    he held a yataghan in it, across his throat.

    At the opening of the glade all the spying party halted whilst the
    leader appointed to each his place of entry of the wood, the front of
    which extended in an almost straight across the valley from cliff to
    cliff.

    The men, stooping low when in the open, and taking instant advantage
    of every little obstacle on the ground, seemed to fade like spectres
    with incredible swiftness across the level mead, and were swallowed
    up in the wood.

    When they had disappeared the Gospodar Rupert revealed to us the
    details of the plan of action which he had revolving in his mind.  He
    motioned us to follow him: we threaded a way between the tree-trunks,
    keeping all the while on the very edge of the cliff, so that the
    space below was all visible to us.  When we had got round the curve
    sufficiently to see the whole of the wood on the valley level,
    without losing sight of the Voivodin and her appointed assassins, we
    halted under his direction.  There was an added advantage of this
    point over the other, for we could see directly the rising of the
    hill-road, up which farther side ran the continuation of the mountain
    path which the marauders had followed.  It was somewhere on that path
    that the other pursuing party had hoped to intercept the fugitives.
    The Gospodar spoke quickly, though in a voice of command which true
    soldiers love to hear:

    "Brothers, the time has come when we can strike a blow for Teuta and
    the Land.  Do you two, marksmen, take position here facing the wood."
    The two men here lay down and got their rifles ready.  "Divide the
    frontage of the wood between you; arrange between yourselves the
    limits of your positions.  The very instant one of the marauders
    appears, cover him; drop him before he emerges from the wood.  Even
    then still watch and treat similarly whoever else may take his place.
    Do this if they come singly till not a man is left.  Remember,
    brothers, that brave hearts alone will not suffice at this grim
    crisis.  In this hour the best safety of the Voivodin is in the calm
    spirit and the steady eye!"  Then he turned to the rest of us, and
    spoke to me:

    "Archimandrite of Plazac, you who are interpreter to God of the
    prayers of so many souls, my own hour has come.  If I do not return,
    convey my love to my Aunt Janet--Miss MacKelpie, at Vissarion.  There
    is but one thing left to us if we wish to save the Voivodin.  Do you,
    when the time comes, take these men and join the watcher at the top
    of the ravine road.  When the shots are fired, do you out handjar,
    and rush the ravine and across the valley.  Brothers, you may be in
    time to avenge the Voivodin, if you cannot save her.  For me there
    must be a quicker way, and to it I go.  As there is not, and will not
    be, time to traverse the path, I must take a quicker way.  Nature
    finds me a path that man has made it necessary for me to travel.  See
    that giant beech-tree that towers above the glade where the Voivodin
    is held?  There is my path!  When you from here have marked the
    return of the spies, give me a signal with your hat--do not use a
    handkerchief, as others might see its white, and take warning.  Then
    rush that ravine.  I shall take that as the signal for my descent by
    the leafy road.  If I can do naught else, I can crush the murderers
    with my falling weight, even if I have to kill her too.  At least we
    shall die together--and free.  Lay us together in the tomb at St.
    Sava's.  Farewell, if it be the last!"

    He threw down the scabbard in which he carried his handjar, adjusted
    the naked weapon in his belt behind his back, and was gone!

    We who were not watching the wood kept our eyes fixed on the great
    beech-tree, and with new interest noticed the long trailing branches
    which hung low, and swayed even in the gentle breeze.  For a few
    minutes, which seemed amazingly long, we saw no sign of him.  Then,
    high up on one of the great branches which stood clear of obscuring
    leaves, we saw something crawling flat against the bark.  He was well
    out on the branch, hanging far over the precipice.  He was looking
    over at us, and I waved my hand so that he should know we saw him.
    He was clad in green--his usual forest dress--so that there was not
    any likelihood of any other eyes noticing him.  I took off my hat,
    and held it ready to signal with when the time should come.  I
    glanced down at the glade and saw the Voivodin standing, still safe,
    with her guards so close to her as to touch.  Then I, too, fixed my
    eyes on the wood.

    Suddenly the man standing beside me seized my arm and pointed.  I
    could just see through the trees, which were lower than elsewhere in
    the front of the wood, a Turk moving stealthily; so I waved my hat.
    At the same time a rifle underneath me cracked.  A second or two
    later the spy pitched forward on his face and lay still.  At the same
    instant my eyes sought the beech-tree, and I saw the close-lying
    figure raise itself and slide forward to a joint of the branch.  Then
    the Gospodar, as he rose, hurled himself forward amid the mass of the
    trailing branches.  He dropped like a stone, and my heart sank.

    But an instant later he seemed in poise.  He had clutched the thin,
    trailing branches as he fell; and as he sank a number of leaves which
    his motion had torn off floated out round him.

    Again the rifle below me cracked, and then again, and again, and
    again.  The marauders had taken warning, and were coming out in mass.
    But my own eyes were fixed on the tree.  Almost as a thunderbolt
    falls fell the giant body of the Gospodar, his size lost in the
    immensity of his surroundings.  He fell in a series of jerks, as he
    kept clutching the trailing beech-branches whilst they lasted, and
    then other lesser verdure growing out from the fissures in the rock
    after the lengthening branches had with all their elasticity reached
    their last point.

    At length--for though this all took place in a very few seconds the
    gravity of the crisis prolonged them immeasurably--there came a large
    space of rock some three times his own length.  He did not pause, but
    swung himself to one side, so that he should fall close to the
    Voivodin and her guards.  These men did not seem to notice, for their
    attention was fixed on the wood whence they expected their messenger
    to signal.  But they raised their yataghans in readiness.  The shots
    had alarmed them; and they meant to do the murder now--messenger or
    no messenger

    But though the men did not see the danger from above, the Voivodin
    did.  She raised her eyes quickly at the first sound, and even from
    where we were, before we began to run towards the ravine path, I
    could see the triumphant look in her glorious eyes when she
    recognized the identity of the man who was seemingly coming straight
    down from Heaven itself to help her--as, indeed, she, and we too, can
    very well imagine that he did; for if ever heaven had a hand in a
    rescue on earth, it was now.

    Even during the last drop from the rocky foliage the Gospodar kept
    his head.  As he fell he pulled his handjar free, and almost as he
    was falling its sweep took off the head of one of the assassins.  As
    he touched ground he stumbled for an instant, but it was towards his
    enemies.  Twice with lightning rapidity the handjar swept the air,
    and at each sweep a head rolled on the sward.

    The Voivodin held up her tied hands.  Again the handjar flashed, this
    time downwards, and the lady was free.  Without an instant's pause
    the Gospodar tore off the gag, and with his left arm round her and
    handjar in right hand, stood face toward his living foes.  The
    Voivodin stooped suddenly, and then, raising the yataghan which had
    fallen from the hand of one of the dead marauders, stood armed beside
    him.

    The rifles were now cracking fast, as the marauders--those that were
    left of them--came rushing out into the open.  But well the marksmen
    knew their work.  Well they bore in mind the Gospodar's command
    regarding calmness.  They kept picking off the foremost men only, so
    that the onward rush never seemed to get more forward.

    As we rushed down the ravine we could see clearly all before us.  But
    now, just as we were beginning to fear lest some mischance might
    allow some of them to reach the glade, there was another cause of
    surprise--of rejoicing.

    From the face of the wood seemed to burst all at once a body of men,
    all wearing the national cap, so we knew them as our own.  They were
    all armed with the handjar only, and they came like tigers.  They
    swept on the rushing Turks as though, for all their swiftness, they
    were standing still--literally wiping them out as a child wipes a
    lesson from its slate.

    A few seconds later these were followed by a tall figure with long
    hair and beard of black mingled with grey.  Instinctively we all, as
    did those in the valley, shouted with joy.  For this was the Vladika
    Milosh Plamenac himself.

    I confess that, knowing what I knew, I was for a short space of time
    anxious lest, in the terrific excitement in which we were all lapped,
    someone might say or do something which might make for trouble later
    on.  The Gospodar's splendid achievement, which was worthy of any
    hero of old romance, had set us all on fire.  He himself must have
    been wrought to a high pitch of excitement to dare such an act; and
    it is not at such a time that discretion must be expected from any
    man.  Most of all did I fear danger from the womanhood of the
    Voivodin.  Had I not assisted at her marriage, I might not have
    understood then what it must have been to her to be saved from such a
    doom at such a time by such a man, who was so much to her, and in
    such a way.  It would have been only natural if at such a moment of
    gratitude and triumph she had proclaimed the secret which we of the
    Council of the Nation and her father's Commissioners had so
    religiously kept.  But none of us knew then either the Voivodin or
    the Gospodar Rupert as we do now.  It was well that they were as they
    are, for the jealousy and suspicion of our mountaineers might, even
    at such a moment, and even whilst they throbbed at such a deed, have
    so manifested themselves as to have left a legacy of distrust.  The
    Vladika and I, who of all (save the two immediately concerned) alone
    knew, looked at each other apprehensively.  But at that instant the
    Voivodin, with a swift glance at her husband, laid a finger on her
    lip; and he, with quick understanding, gave assurance by a similar
    sign.  Then she sank before him on one knee, and, raising his hand to
    her lips, kissed it, and spoke:

    "Gospodar Rupert, I owe you all that a woman may owe, except to God.
    You have given me life and honour!  I cannot thank you adequately for
    what you have done; my father will try to do so when he returns.  But
    I am right sure that the men of the Blue Mountains, who so value
    honour, and freedom, and liberty, and bravery, will hold you in their
    hearts for ever!"

    This was so sweetly spoken, with lips that trembled and eyes that
    swam in tears, so truly womanly and so in accord with the custom of
    our nation regarding the reverence that women owe to men, that the
    hearts of our mountaineers were touched to the quick.  Their noble
    simplicity found expression in tears.  But if the gallant Gospodar
    could have for a moment thought that so to weep was unmanly, his
    error would have had instant correction.  When the Voivodin had risen
    to her feet, which she did with queenly dignity, the men around
    closed in on the Gospodar like a wave of the sea, and in a second
    held him above their heads, tossing on their lifted hands as if on
    stormy breakers.  It was as though the old Vikings of whom we have
    heard, and whose blood flows in Rupert's veins, were choosing a chief
    in old fashion.  I was myself glad that the men were so taken up with
    the Gospodar that they did not see the glory of the moment in the
    Voivodin's starry eyes; for else they might have guessed the secret.
    I knew from the Vladika's look that he shared my own satisfaction,
    even as he had shared my anxiety.

    As the Gospodar Rupert was tossed high on the lifted hands of the
    mountaineers, their shouts rose to such a sudden volume that around
    us, as far as I could see, the frightened birds rose from the forest,
    and their noisy alarm swelled the tumult.

    The Gospodar, ever thoughtful for others, was the first to calm
    himself.

    "Come, brothers," he said, "let us gain the hilltop, where we can
    signal to the Castle.  It is right that the whole nation should share
    in the glad tidings that the Voivodin Teuta of Vissarion is free.
    But before we go, let us remove the arms and clothing of these
    carrion marauders.  We may have use for them later on."

    The mountaineers set him down, gently enough.  And he, taking the
    Voivodin by the hand, and calling the Vladika and myself close to
    them, led the way up the ravine path which the marauders had
    descended, and thence through the forest to the top of the hill that
    dominated the valley.  Here we could, from an opening amongst the
    trees, catch a glimpse far off of the battlements of Vissarion.
    Forthwith the Gospodar signalled; and on the moment a reply of their
    awaiting was given.  Then the Gospodar signalled the glad news.  It
    was received with manifest rejoicing.  We could not hear any sound so
    far away, but we could see the movement of lifted faces and waving
    hands, and knew that it was well.  But an instant after came a calm
    so dread that we knew before the semaphore had begun to work that
    there was bad news in store for us.  When the news did come, a bitter
    wailing arose amongst us; for the news that was signalled ran:

    "The Voivode has been captured by the Turks on his return, and is
    held by them at Ilsin."

    In an instant the temper of the mountaineers changed.  It was as
    though by a flash summer had changed to winter, as though the yellow
    glory of the standing corn had been obliterated by the dreary waste
    of snow.  Nay, more: it was as when one beholds the track of the
    whirlwind when the giants of the forest are levelled with the sward.
    For a few seconds there was silence; and then, with an angry roar, as
    when God speaks in the thunder, came the fierce determination of the
    men of the Blue Mountains:

    "To Ilsin!  To Ilsin!" and a stampede in the direction of the south
    began.  For, Illustrious Lady, you, perhaps, who have been for so
    short a time at Vissarion, may not know that at the extreme southern
    point of the Land of the Blue Mountains lies the little port of
    Ilsin, which long ago we wrested from the Turk.

    The stampede was checked by the command, "Halt!" spoken in a
    thunderous voice by the Gospodar.  Instinctively all stopped.  The
    Gospodar Rupert spoke again:

    "Had we not better know a little more before we start on our journey?
    I shall get by semaphore what details are known.  Do you all proceed
    in silence and as swiftly as possible.  The Vladika and I will wait
    here till we have received the news and have sent some instructions,
    when we shall follow, and, if we can, overtake you.  One thing: be
    absolutely silent on what has been.  Be secret of every detail--even
    as to the rescue of the Voivodin--except what I send."

    Without a word--thus showing immeasurable trust--the whole body--not
    a very large one, it is true--moved on, and the Gospodar began
    signalling.  As I was myself expert in the code, I did not require
    any explanation, but followed question and answer on either side.
    The first words the Gospodar Rupert signalled were:

    "Silence, absolute and profound, as to everything which has been."
    Then he asked for details of the capture of the Voivode.  The answer
    ran:

    "He was followed from Flushing, and his enemies advised by the spies
    all along the route.  At Ragusa quite a number of
    strangers--travellers seemingly--went on board the packet.  When he
    got out, the strangers debarked too, and evidently followed him,
    though, as yet, we have no details.  He disappeared at Ilsin from the
    Hotel Reo, whither he had gone.  All possible steps are being taken
    to trace his movements, and strictest silence and secrecy are
    observed."

    His answer was:

    "Good!  Keep silent and secret.  Am hurrying back.  Signal request to
    Archbishop and all members of National Council to come to Gadaar with
    all speed.  There the yacht will meet him.  Tell Rooke take yacht all
    speed to Gadaar; there meet Archbishop and Council--give him list of
    names--and return full speed.  Have ready plenty arms, six flying
    artillery.  Two hundred men, provisions three days.  Silence,
    silence.  All depends on that.  All to go on as usual at Castle,
    except to those in secret."

    When the receipt of his message had been signalled, we three--for, of
    course, the Voivodin was with us; she had refused to leave the
    Gospodar--set out hot-foot after our comrades.  But by the time we
    had descended the hill it was evident that the Voivodin could not
    keep up the terrific pace at which we were going.  She struggled
    heroically, but the long journey she had already taken, and the
    hardship and anxiety she had suffered, had told on her.  The Gospodar
    stopped, and said that it would be better that he should press on--it
    was, perhaps, her father's life--and said he would carry her.

    "No, no!" she answered.  "Go on!  I shall follow with the Vladika.
    And then you can have things ready to get on soon after the
    Archbishop and Council arrive."  They kissed each other after, on her
    part, a shy glance at me; and he went on the track of our comrades at
    a great pace.  I could see him shortly after catch them up,--though
    they, too, were going fast.  For a few minutes they ran together, he
    speaking--I could note it from the way they kept turning their heads
    towards him.  Then he broke away from them hurriedly.  He went like a
    stag breaking covert, and was soon out of sight.  They halted a
    moment or two.  Then some few ran on, and all the rest came back
    towards us.  Quickly they improvised a litter with cords and
    branches, and insisted that the Voivodin should use it.  In an
    incredibly short time we were under way again, and proceeding with
    great rapidity towards Vissarion.  The men took it in turns to help
    with the litter; I had the honour of taking a hand in the work
    myself.

    About a third of the way out from Vissarion a number of our people
    met us.  They were fresh, and as they carried the litter, we who were
    relieved were free for speed.  So we soon arrived at the Castle.

    Here we found all humming like a hive of bees.  The yacht, which
    Captain Rooke had kept fired ever since the pursuing party under the
    Gospodar had left Vissarion, was already away, and tearing up the
    coast at a fearful rate.  The rifles and ammunition were stacked on
    the quay.  The field-guns, too, were equipped, and the cases of
    ammunition ready to ship.  The men, two hundred of them, were paraded
    in full kit, ready to start at a moment's notice.  The provision for
    three days was all ready to put aboard, and barrels of fresh water to
    trundle aboard when the yacht should return.  At one end of the quay,
    ready to lift on board, stood also the Gospodar's aeroplane, fully
    equipped, and ready, if need were, for immediate flight.

    I was glad to see that the Voivodin seemed none the worse for her
    terrible experience.  She still wore her shroud; but no one seemed to
    notice it as anything strange.  The whisper had evidently gone round
    of what had been.  But discretion ruled the day.  She and the
    Gospodar met as two who had served and suffered in common; but I was
    glad to notice that both kept themselves under such control that none
    of those not already in the secret even suspected that there was any
    love between them, let alone marriage.

    We all waited with what patience we could till word was signalled
    from the Castle tower that the yacht had appeared over the northern
    horizon, and was coming down fast, keeping inshore as she came.

    When she arrived, we heard to our joy that all concerned had done
    their work well.  The Archbishop was aboard, and of the National
    Council not one was missing.  The Gospodar hurried them all into the
    great hall of the Castle, which had in the meantime been got ready.
    I, too, went with him, but the Voivodin remained without.

    When all were seated, he rose and said:

    "My Lord Archbishop, Vladika, and Lords of the Council all, I have
    dared to summon you in this way because time presses, and the life of
    one you all love--the Voivode Vissarion--is at stake.  This audacious
    attempt of the Turk is the old aggression under a new form.  It is a
    new and more daring step than ever to try to capture your chief and
    his daughter, the Voivodin, whom you love.  Happily, the latter part
    of the scheme is frustrated.  The Voivodin is safe and amongst us.
    But the Voivode is held prisoner--if, indeed, he be still alive.  He
    must be somewhere near Ilsin--but where exactly we know not as yet.
    We have an expedition ready to start the moment we receive your
    sanction--your commands.  We shall obey your wishes with our lives.
    But as the matter is instant, I would venture to ask one question,
    and one only: 'Shall we rescue the Voivode at any cost that may
    present itself?'  I ask this, for the matter has now become an
    international one, and, if our enemies are as earnest as we are, the
    issue is war!"

    Having so spoken, and with a dignity and force which is
    inexpressible, he withdrew; and the Council, having appointed a
    scribe--the monk Cristoferos, whom I had suggested--began its work.

    The Archbishop spoke:

    "Lords of the Council of the Blue Mountains, I venture to ask you
    that the answer to the Gospodar Rupert be an instant 'Yes!' together
    with thanks and honour to that gallant Englisher, who has made our
    cause his own, and who has so valiantly rescued our beloved Voivodin
    from the ruthless hands of our enemies."  Forthwith the oldest member
    of the Council--Nicolos of Volok--rose, and, after throwing a
    searching look round the faces of all, and seeing grave nods of
    assent--for not a word was spoken--said to him who held the door:
    "Summon the Gospodar Rupert forthwith!"  When Rupert entered, he
    spoke to him:

    "Gospodar Rupert, the Council of the Blue Mountains has only one
    answer to give: Proceed!  Rescue the Voivode Vissarion, whatever the
    cost may be!  You hold henceforth in your hand the handjar of our
    nation, as already, for what you have done in your valiant rescue of
    our beloved Voivodin, your breast holds the heart of our people.
    Proceed at once!  We give you, I fear, little time; but we know that
    such is your own wish.  Later, we shall issue formal authorization,
    so that if war may ensue, our allies may understand that you have
    acted for the nation, and also such letters credential as may be
    required by you in this exceptional service.  These shall follow you
    within an hour.  For our enemies we take no account.  See, we draw
    the handjar that we offer you."  As one man all in the hall drew
    their handjars, which flashed as a blaze of lightning.

    There did not seem to be an instant's delay.  The Council broke up,
    and its members, mingling with the people without, took active part
    in the preparations.  Not many minutes had elapsed when the yacht,
    manned and armed and stored as arranged, was rushing out of the
    creek.  On the bridge, beside Captain Rooke, stood the Gospodar
    Rupert and the still-shrouded form of the Voivodin Teuta.  I myself
    was on the lower deck with the soldiers, explaining to certain of
    them the special duties which they might be called on to fulfil.  I
    held the list which the Gospodar Rupert had prepared whilst we were
    waiting for the yacht to arrive from Gadaar.

                                                         PETROF VLASTIMIR.

FROM RUPERT'S JOURNAL--Continued.

                                                           July 9, 1907.

We went at a terrific pace down the coast, keeping well inshore so as to avoid, if possible,
being seen from the south.  Just north of Ilsin a rocky headland juts out, and that was our
cover.  On the north of the peninsula is a small land-locked bay, with deep water.  It is large
enough to take the yacht, though a much larger vessel could not safely enter.  We ran in, and
anchored close to the shore, which has a rocky frontage--a natural shelf of rock, which is
practically the same as a quay.  Here we met the men who had come from Ilsin and the neighbourhood
in answer to our signalling earlier in the day.  They gave us the latest information regarding
the kidnapping of the Voivode, and informed us that every man in that section of the country
was simply aflame about it. They assured us that we could rely on them, not merely to fight
to the death, but to keep silence absolutely.  Whilst the seamen, under the direction of Rooke,
took the aeroplane on shore and found a suitable place for it, where it was hidden from casual
view, but from which it could be easily launched, the Vladika and I--and, of course, my wife--were
hearing such details as were known of the disappearance of her father.

It seems that he travelled secretly in order to avoid just such a possibility as has happened.
No one knew of his coming till he came to Fiume, whence he sent a guarded message to the Archbishop,
which the latter alone would understand.  But this Turkish agents were evidently on his track
all the time, and doubtless the Bureau of Spies was kept well advised.  He landed at Ilsin
from a coasting steamer from Ragusa to the Levant.

For two days before his coming there had been quite an unusual number of arrivals at the little
port, at which arrivals are rare.  And it turned out that the little hotel--the only fairly
good one in Ilsin--was almost filled up.  Indeed, only one room was left, which the Voivode
took for the night.  The innkeeper did not know the Voivode in his disguise, but suspected
who it was from the description.  He dined quietly, and went to bed.  His room was at the back,
on the ground-floor, looking out on the bank of the little River Silva, which here runs into
the harbour.  No disturbance was heard in the night.  Late in the morning, when the elderly
stranger had not made his appearance, inquiry was made at his door.  He did not answer, so
presently the landlord forced the door, and found the room empty.  His luggage was seemingly
intact, only the clothes which he had worn were gone.  A strange thing was that, though the
bed had been slept in and his clothes were gone, his night-clothes were not to be found, from
which it was argued by the local authorities, when they came to make inquiry, that he had gone
or been taken from the room in his night-gear, and that his clothes had been taken with him.
There was evidently some grim suspicion on the part of the authorities, for they had commanded
absolute silence on all in the house.  When they came to make inquiry as to the other guests,
it was found that one and all had gone in the course of the morning, after paying their bills.
None of them had any heavy luggage, and there was nothing remaining by which they might be
traced or which would afford any clue to their identity.  The authorities, having sent a confidential
report to the seat of government, continued their inquiries, and even now all available hands
were at work on the investigation.  When I had signalled to Vissarion, before my arrival there,
word had been sent through the priesthood to enlist in the investigation the services of all
good men, so that every foot of ground in that section of the Blue Mountains was being investigated.
The port-master was assured by his watchmen that no vessel, large or small, had heft the harbour
during the night.  The inference, therefore, was that the Voivode's captors had made inland
with him--if, indeed, they were not already secreted in or near the town.

Whilst we were receiving the various reports, a hurried message came that it was now believed
that the whole party were in the Silent Tower.  This was a well-chosen place for such an enterprise.
It was a massive tower of immense strength, built as a memorial--and also as a "keep"--after
one of the massacres of the invading Turks.

It stood on the summit of a rocky knoll some ten miles inland from the Port of Ilsin.  It was
a place shunned as a rule, and the country all around it was so arid and desolate that there
were no residents near it. As it was kept for state use, and might be serviceable in time of
war, it was closed with massive iron doors, which were kept locked except upon certain occasions.
The keys were at the seat of government at Plazac. If, therefore, it had been possible to the
Turkish marauders to gain entrance and exit, it might be a difficult as well as a dangerous
task to try to cut the Voivode out.  His presence with them was a dangerous menace to any force
attacking them, for they would hold his life as a threat.

I consulted with the Vladika at once as to what was best to be done.  And we decided that,
though we should put a cordon of guards around it at a safe distance to prevent them receiving
warning, we should at present make no attack.

We made further inquiry as to whether there had been any vessel seen in the neighbourhood during
the past few days, and were informed that once or twice a warship had been seen on the near
side of the southern horizon.  This was evidently the ship which Rooke had seen on his rush
down the coast after the abduction of the Voivodin, and which he had identified as a Turkish
vessel.  The glimpses of her which had been had were all in full daylight--there was no proof
that she had not stolen up during the night-time without lights.  But the Vladika and I were
satisfied that the Turkish vessel was watching--was in league with both parties of marauders--and
was intended to take off any of the strangers, or their prey, who might reach Ilsin undetected.
It was evidently with this view that the kidnappers of Teuta had, in the first instance, made
with all speed for the south.  It was only when disappointed there that they headed up north,
seeking in desperation for some chance of crossing the border.  That ring of steel had so far
well served its purpose.

I sent for Rooke, and put the matter before him.  He had thought it out for himself to the
same end as we had.  His deduction was:

"Let us keep the cordon, and watch for any signal from the Silent Tower. The Turks will tire
before we shall.  I undertake to watch the Turkish warship.  During the night I shall run down
south, without lights, and have a look at her, even if I have to wait till the grey of the
dawn to do so.  She may see us; but if she does I shall crawl away at such pace that she shall
not get any idea of our speed.  She will certainly come nearer before a day is over, for be
sure the bureau of spies is kept advised, and they know that when the country is awake each
day increases the hazard of them and their plans being discovered.  From their caution I gather
that they do not court discovery; and from that that they do not wish for an open declaration
of war.  If this be so, why should we not come out to them and force an issue if need be?"

When Teuta and I got a chance to be alone, we discussed the situation in every phase.  The
poor girl was in a dreadful state of anxiety regarding her father's safety.  At first she was
hardly able to speak, or even to think, coherently.  Her utterance was choked, and her reasoning
palsied with indignation.  But presently the fighting blood of her race restored her faculties,
and then her woman's quick wit was worth the reasoning of a camp full of men.  Seeing that
she was all on fire with the subject, I sat still and waited, taking care not to interrupt
her.  For quite a long time she sat still, whilst the coming night thickened.  When she spoke,
the whole plan of action, based on subtle thinking, had mapped itself out in her mind:

"We must act quickly.  Every hour increases the risk to my father."  Here her voice broke for
an instant; but she recovered herself and went on:

"If you go to the ship, I must not go with you.  It would not do for me to be seen.  The Captain
doubtless knows of both attempts: that to carry me off as well as that against my father. 
As yet he is in ignorance of what has happened.  You and your party of brave, loyal men did
their work so well that no news could go forth.  So long, therefore, as the naval Captain is
ignorant, he must delay till the last.  But if he saw me he would know that that branch of
the venture had miscarried.  He would gather from our being here that we had news of my father's
capture, and as he would know that the marauders would fail unless they were relieved by force,
he would order the captive to be slain."

"Yes, dear, to-morrow you had, perhaps, better see the Captain, but to-night we must try to
rescue my father.  Here I think I see a way.  You have your aeroplane.  Please take me with
you into the Silent Tower."

"Not for a world of chrysolite!" said I, horrified.  She took my hand and held it tight whilst
she went on:

"Dear, I know, I know!  Be satisfied.  But it is the only way.  You can, I know, get there,
and in the dark.  But if you were to go in it, it would give warning to the enemies, and besides,
my father would not understand.  Remember, he does not know you; he has never seen you, and
does not, I suppose, even know as yet of your existence.  But he would know me at once, and
in any dress.  You can manage to lower me into the Tower by a rope from the aeroplane.  The
Turks as yet do not know of our pursuit, and doubtless rely, at all events in part, on the
strength and security of the Tower.  Therefore their guard will be less active than it would
at first or later on.  I shall post father in all details, and we shall be ready quickly. 
Now, dear, let us think out the scheme together. Let your man's wit and experience help my
ignorance, and we shall save my father!"

How could I have resisted such pleading--even had it not seemed wise? But wise it was; and
I, who knew what the aeroplane could do under my own guidance, saw at once the practicalities
of the scheme.  Of course there was a dreadful risk in case anything should go wrong.  But
we are at present living in a world of risks--and her father's life was at stake. So I took
my dear wife in my arms, and told her that my mind was hers for this, as my soul and body already
were.  And I cheered her by saying that I thought it might be done.

I sent for Rooke, and told him of the new adventure, and he quite agreed with me in the wisdom
of it.  I then told him that he would have to go and interview the Captain of the Turkish warship
in the morning, if I did not turn up.  "I am going to see the Vladika," I said.  "He will lead
our own troops in the attack on the Silent Tower.  But it will rest with you to deal with the
warship.  Ask the Captain to whom or what nation the ship belongs.  He is sure to refuse to
tell.  In such case mention to him that if he flies no nation's flag, his vessel is a pirate
ship, and that you, who are in command of the navy of the Blue Mountains, will deal with him
as a pirate is dealt with--no quarter, no mercy.  He will temporize, and perhaps try a bluff;
but when things get serious with him he will land a force, or try to, and may even prepare
to shell the town.  He will threaten to, at any rate.  In such case deal with him as you think
best, or as near to it as you can."  He answered:

"I shall carry out your wishes with my life.  It is a righteous task. Not that anything of
that sort would ever stand in my way.  If he attacks our nation, either as a Turk or a pirate,
I shall wipe him out.  We shall see what our own little packet can do.  Moreover, any of the
marauders who have entered the Blue Mountains, from sea or otherwise, shall never get out by
sea!  I take it that we of my contingent shall cover the attacking party.  It will be a sorry
time for us all if that happens without our seeing you and the Voivodin; for in such case we
shall understand the worst!"  Iron as he was, the man trembled.

"That is so, Rooke," I said.  "We are taking a desperate chance, we know. But the case is desperate!
But we all have our duty to do, whatever happens.  Ours and yours is stern; but when we have
done it, the result will be that life will be easier for others--for those that are left."

Before he left, I asked him to send up to me three suits of the Masterman bullet-proof clothes
of which we had a supply on the yacht.

"Two are for the Voivodin and myself," I said; "the third is for the Voivode to put on.  The
Voivodin will take it with her when she descends from the aeroplane into the Tower."

Whilst any daylight was left I went out to survey the ground.  My wife wanted to come with
me, but I would not let her.  "No," said I; "you will have at the best a fearful tax on your
strength and your nerves.  You will want to be as fresh as is possible when you get on the
aeroplane." Like a good wife, she obeyed, and lay down to rest in the little tent provided for her.

I took with me a local man who knew the ground, and who was trusted to be silent.  We made
a long detour when we had got as near the Silent Tower as we could without being noticed. 
I made notes from my compass as to directions, and took good notice of anything that could
possibly serve as a landmark.  By the time we got home I was pretty well satisfied that if
all should go well I could easily sail over the Tower in the dark.  Then I had a talk with
my wife, and gave her full instructions:

"When we arrive over the Tower," I said, "I shall lower you with a long rope.  You will have
a parcel of food and spirit for your father in case he is fatigued or faint; and, of course,
the bullet-proof suit, which he must put on at once.  You will also have a short rope with
a belt at either end--one for your father, the other for you.  When I turn the aeroplane and
come back again, you will have ready the ring which lies midway between the belts.  This you
will catch into the hook at the end of the lowered rope.  When all is secure, and I have pulled
you both up by the windlass so as to clear the top, I shall throw out ballast which we shall
carry on purpose, and away we go!  I am sorry it must be so uncomfortable for you both, but
there is no other way.  When we get well clear of the Tower, I shall take you both up on the
platform.  If necessary, I shall descend to do it--and then we shall steer for Ilsin."

"When all is safe, our men will attack the Tower.  We must let them do it, for they expect
it.  A few men in the clothes and arms which we took from your captors will be pursued by some
of ours.  It is all arranged. They will ask the Turks to admit them, and if the latter have
not learned of your father's escape, perhaps they will do so.  Once in, our men will try to
open the gate.  The chances are against them, poor fellows! but they are all volunteers, and
will die fighting.  If they win out, great glory will be theirs."

"The moon does not rise to-night till just before midnight, so we have plenty of time.  We
shall start from here at ten.  If all be well, I shall place you in the Tower with your father
in less than a quarter-hour from that.  A few minutes will suffice to clothe him in bullet-proof
and get on his belt.  I shall not be away from the Tower more than a very few minutes, and,
please God, long before eleven we shall be safe.  Then the Tower can be won in an attack by
our mountaineers.  Perhaps, when the guns are heard on the ship of war--for there is sure to
be firing--the Captain may try to land a shore party.  But Rooke will stand in the way, and
if I know the man and The Lady, we shall not be troubled with many Turks to-night.  By midnight
you and your father can be on the way to Vissarion.  I can interview the naval Captain in the
morning."

My wife's marvellous courage and self-possession stood to her.  At half an hour before the
time fixed she was ready for our adventure.  She had improved the scheme in one detail.  She
had put on her own belt and coiled the rope round her waist, so the only delay would be in
bringing her father's belt.  She would keep the bullet-proof dress intended to be his strapped
in a packet on her back, so that if occasion should be favourable he would not want to put
it on till he and she should have reached the platform of the aeroplane.  In such case, I should
not steer away from the Tower at all, but would pass slowly across it and take up the captive
and his brave daughter before leaving.  I had learned from local sources that the Tower was
in several stories.  Entrance was by the foot, where the great iron-clad door was; then came
living-rooms and storage, and an open space at the top.  This would probably be thought the
best place for the prisoner, for it was deep-sunk within the massive walls, wherein was no
loophole of any kind.  This, if it should so happen, would be the disposition of things best
for our plan.  The guards would at this time be all inside the Tower--probably resting, most
of them--so that it was possible that no one might notice the coming of the airship.  I was
afraid to think that all might turn out so well, for in such case our task would be a simple
enough one, and would in all human probability be crowned with success.

At ten o'clock we started.  Teuta did not show the smallest sign of fear or even uneasiness,
though this was the first time she had even seen an aeroplane at work.  She proved to be an
admirable passenger for an airship.  She stayed quite still, holding herself rigidly in the
position arranged, by the cords which I had fixed for her.

When I had trued my course by the landmarks and with the compass lit by the Tiny my electric
light in the dark box, I had time to look about me. All seemed quite dark wherever I looked--to
land, or sea, or sky.  But darkness is relative, and though each quarter and spot looked dark
in turn, there was not such absolute darkness as a whole.  I could tell the difference, for
instance, between land and sea, no matter how far off we might be from either.  Looking upward,
the sky was dark; yet there was light enough to see, and even distinguish broad effects.  I
had no difficulty in distinguishing the Tower towards which we were moving, and that, after
all, was the main thing.  We drifted slowly, very slowly, as the air was still, and I only
used the minimum pressure necessary for the engine.  I think I now understood for the first
time the extraordinary value of the engine with which my Kitson was equipped.  It was noiseless,
it was practically of no weight, and it allowed the machine to progress as easily as the old-fashioned
balloon used to drift before a breeze. Teuta, who had naturally very fine sight, seemed to
see even better than I did, for as we drew nearer to the Tower, and its round, open top began
to articulate itself, she commenced to prepare for her part of the task. She it was who uncoiled
the long drag-rope ready for her lowering.  We were proceeding so gently that she as well as
I had hopes that I might be able to actually balance the machine on the top of the curving
wall--a thing manifestly impossible on a straight surface, though it might have been possible
on an angle.

On we crept--on, and on!  There was no sign of light about the Tower, and not the faintest
sound to be heard till we were almost close to the line of the rising wall; then we heard a
sound of something like mirth, but muffled by distance and thick walls.  From it we took fresh
heart, for it told us that our enemies were gathered in the lower chambers.  If only the Voivode
should be on the upper stage, all would be well.

Slowly, almost inch by inch, and with a suspense that was agonizing, we crossed some twenty
or thirty feet above the top of the wall.  I could see as we came near the jagged line of white
patches where the heads of the massacred Turks placed there on spikes in old days seemed to
give still their grim warning.  Seeing that they made in themselves a difficulty of landing
on the wall, I deflected the plane so that, as we crept over the wall, we might, if they became
displaced, brush them to the outside of the wall.  A few seconds more, and I was able to bring
the machine to rest with the front of the platform jutting out beyond the Tower wall.  Here
I anchored her fore and aft with clamps which had been already prepared.

Whilst I was doing so Teuta had leaned over the inner edge of the platform, and whispered as
softly as the sigh of a gentle breeze:

"Hist! hist!"  The answer came in a similar sound from some twenty feet below us, and we knew
that the prisoner was alone.  Forthwith, having fixed the hook of the rope in the ring to which
was attached her belt, I lowered my wife.  Her father evidently knew her whisper, and was ready.
The hollow Tower--a smooth cylinder within--sent up the voices from it faint as were the whispers:

"Father, it is I--Teuta!"

"My child, my brave daughter!"

"Quick, father; strap the belt round you.  See that it is secure.  We have to be lifted into
the air if necessary.  Hold together.  It will be easier for Rupert to lift us to the airship."

"Rupert?"

"Yes; I shall explain later.  Quick, quick!  There is not a moment to lose.  He is enormously
strong, and can lift us together; but we must help him by being still, so he won't have to
use the windlass, which might creak."  As she spoke she jerked slightly at the rope, which
was our preconcerted signal that I was to lift.  I was afraid the windlass might creak, and
her thoughtful hint decided me.  I bent my back to the task, and in a few seconds they were
on the platform on which they, at Teuta's suggestion, lay flat, one at each side of my seat,
so as to keep the best balance possible.

I took off the clamps, lifted the bags of ballast to the top of the wall, so that there should
be no sound of falling, and started the engine.  The machine moved forward a few inches, so
that it tilted towards the outside of the wall.  I threw my weight on the front part of the
platform, and we commenced our downward fall at a sharp angle.  A second enlarged the angle,
and without further ado we slid away into the darkness.  Then, ascending as we went, when the
engine began to work at its strength, we turned, and presently made straight for Ilsin.

The journey was short--not many minutes.  It almost seemed as if no time whatever had elapsed
till we saw below us the gleam of lights, and by them saw a great body of men gathered in military
array.  We slackened and descended.  The crowd kept deathly silence, but when we were amongst
them we needed no telling that it was not due to lack of heart or absence of joy.  The pressure
of their hands as they surrounded us, and the devotion with which they kissed the hands and
feet of both the Voivode and his daughter, were evidence enough for me, even had I not had
my own share of their grateful rejoicing.

In the midst of it all the low, stern voice of Rooke, who had burst a way to the front beside
the Vladika, said:

"Now is the time to attack the Tower.  Forward, brothers, but in silence. Let there not be
a sound till you are near the gate; then play your little comedy of the escaping marauders.
And 'twill be no comedy for them in the Tower.  The yacht is all ready for the morning, Mr.
Sent Leger, in case I do not come out of the scrimmage if the bluejackets arrive.  In such
case you will have to handle her yourself.  God keep you, my Lady; and you, too, Voivode! 
Forward!"

In a ghostly silence the grim little army moved forwards.  Rooke and the men with him disappeared
into the darkness in the direction of the harbour of Ilsin.

FROM THE SCRIPT OF THE VOIVODE, PETER VISSARION,

                                                           July 7, 1907.

I had little idea, when I started on my homeward journey, that it would have such a strange
termination.  Even I, who ever since my boyhood have lived in a whirl of adventure, intrigue,
or diplomacy--whichever it may be called--statecraft, and war, had reason to be surprised.
I certainly thought that when I locked myself into my room in the hotel at Ilsin that I would
have at last a spell, however short, of quiet.  All the time of my prolonged negotiations with
the various nationalities I had to be at tension; so, too, on my homeward journey, lest something
at the last moment should happen adversely to my mission.  But when I was safe on my own Land
of the Blue Mountains, and laid my head on my pillow, where only friends could be around me,
I thought I might forget care.

But to wake with a rude hand over my mouth, and to feel myself grasped tight by so many hands
that I could not move a limb, was a dreadful shock.  All after that was like a dreadful dream.
I was rolled in a great rug so tightly that I could hardly breathe, let alone cry out. Lifted
by many hands through the window, which I could hear was softly opened and shut for the purpose,
and carried to a boat.  Again lifted into some sort of litter, on which I was borne a long
distance, but with considerable rapidity.  Again lifted out and dragged through a doorway opened
on purpose--I could hear the clang as it was shut behind me.  Then the rug was removed, and
I found myself, still in my night-gear, in the midst of a ring of men.  There were two score
of them, all Turks, all strong-looking, resolute men, armed to the teeth.  My clothes, which
had been taken from my room, were thrown down beside me, and I was told to dress.  As the Turks
were going from the room--shaped like a vault--where we then were, the last of them, who seemed
to be some sort of officer, said:

"If you cry out or make any noise whatever whilst you are in this Tower, you shall die before
your time!"  Presently some food and water were brought me, and a couple of blankets.  I wrapped
myself up and slept till early in the morning.  Breakfast was brought, and the same men filed
in. In the presence of them all the same officer said:

"I have given instructions that if you make any noise or betray your presence to anyone outside
this Tower, the nearest man is to restore you to immediate quiet with his yataghan.  It you
promise me that you will remain quiet whilst you are within the Tower, I can enlarge your liberties
somewhat.  Do you promise?"  I promised as he wished; there was no need to make necessary any
stricter measure of confinement.  Any chance of escape lay in having the utmost freedom allowed
to me. Although I had been taken away with such secrecy, I knew that before long there would
be pursuit.  So I waited with what patience I could.  I was allowed to go on the upper platform--a
consideration due, I am convinced, to my captors' wish for their own comfort rather than for mine.

It was not very cheering, for during the daytime I had satisfied myself that it would be quite
impossible for even a younger and more active man than I am to climb the walls.  They were
built for prison purposes, and a cat could not find entry for its claws between the stones.
I resigned myself to my fate as well as I could.  Wrapping my blanket round me, I lay down
and looked up at the sky.  I wished to see it whilst I could.  I was just dropping to sleep--the
unutterable silence of the place broken only now and again by some remark by my captors in
the rooms below me--when there was a strange appearance just over me--an appearance so strange
that I sat up, and gazed with distended eyes.

Across the top of the tower, some height above, drifted, slowly and silently, a great platform.
Although the night was dark, it was so much darker where I was within the hollow of the Tower
that I could actually see what was above me.  I knew it was an aeroplane--one of which I had
seen in Washington.  A man was seated in the centre, steering; and beside him was a silent
figure of a woman all wrapped in white.  It made my heart beat to see her, for she was figured
something like my Teuta, but broader, less shapely.  She leaned over, and a whispered "Ssh!"
crept down to me.  I answered in similar way.  Whereupon she rose, and the man lowered her
down into the Tower.  Then I saw that it was my dear daughter who had come in this wonderful
way to save me.  With infinite haste she helped me to fasten round my waist a belt attached
to a rope, which was coiled round her; and then the man, who was a giant in strength as well
as stature, raised us both to the platform of the aeroplane, which he set in motion without
an instant's delay.

Within a few seconds, and without any discovery being made of my escape, we were speeding towards
the sea.  The lights of Ilsin were in front of us.  Before reaching the town, however, we descended
in the midst of a little army of my own people, who were gathered ready to advance upon the
Silent Tower, there to effect, if necessary, my rescue by force.  Small chance would there
have been of my life in case of such a struggle. Happily, however, the devotion and courage
of my dear daughter and of her gallant companion prevented such a necessity.  It was strange
to me to find such joyous reception amongst my friends expressed in such a whispered silence.
There was no time for comment or understanding or the asking of questions--I was fain to take
things as they stood, and wait for fuller explanation.

This came later, when my daughter and I were able to converse alone.

When the expedition went out against the Silent Tower, Teuta and I went to her tent, and with
us came her gigantic companion, who seemed not wearied, but almost overcome with sleep.  When
we came into the tent, over which at a little distance a cordon of our mountaineers stood on
guard, he said to me:

"May I ask you, sir, to pardon me for a time, and allow the Voivodin to explain matters to
you?  She will, I know, so far assist me, for there is so much work still to be done before
we are free of the present peril. For myself, I am almost overcome with sleep.  For three nights
I have had no sleep, but all during that time much labour and more anxiety.  I could hold on
longer; but at daybreak I must go out to the Turkish warship that lies in the offing.  She
is a Turk, though she does not confess to it; and she it is who has brought hither the marauders
who captured both your daughter and yourself.  It is needful that I go, for I hold a personal
authority from the National Council to take whatever step may be necessary for our protection.
And when I go I should be clear-headed, for war may rest on that meeting.  I shall be in the
adjoining tent, and shall come at once if I am summoned, in case you wish for me before dawn."
Here my daughter struck in:

"Father, ask him to remain here.  We shall not disturb him, I am sure, in our talking.  And,
moreover, if you knew how much I owe to him--to his own bravery and his strength--you would
understand how much safer I feel when he is close to me, though we are surrounded by an army
of our brave mountaineers."

"But, my daughter," I said, for I was as yet all in ignorance, "there are confidences between
father and daughter which none other may share.  Some of what has been I know, but I want to
know all, and it might be better that no stranger--however valiant he may be, or no matter
in what measure we are bound to him--should be present."  To my astonishment, she who had always
been amenable to my lightest wish actually argued with me:

"Father, there are other confidences which have to be respected in like wise.  Bear with me,
dear, till I have told you all, and I am right sure that you will agree with me.  I ask it,
father."

That settled the matter, and as I could see that the gallant gentleman who had rescued me was
swaying on his feet as he waited respectfully, I said to him:

"Rest with us, sir.  We shall watch over your sleep."

Then I had to help him, for almost on the instant he sank down, and I had to guide him to the
rugs spread on the ground.  In a few seconds he was in a deep sleep.  As I stood looking at
him, till I had realized that he vas really asleep, I could not help marvelling at the bounty
of Nature that could uphold even such a man as this to the last moment of work to be done,
and then allow so swift a collapse when all was over, and he could rest peacefully.

He was certainly a splendid fellow.  I think I never saw so fine a man physically in my life.
And if the lesson of his physiognomy be true, he is as sterling inwardly as his external is
fair.  "Now," said I to Teuta, "we are to all intents quite alone.  Tell me all that has been,
so that I may understand."

Whereupon my daughter, making me sit down, knelt beside me, and told me from end to end the
most marvellous story I had ever heard or read of. Something of it I had already known from
the Archbishop Paleologue's later letters, but of all else I was ignorant.  Far away in the
great West beyond the Atlantic, and again on the fringe of the Eastern seas, I had been thrilled
to my heart's core by the heroic devotion and fortitude of my daughter in yielding herself
for her country's sake to that fearful ordeal of the Crypt; of the grief of the nation at her
reported death, news of which was so mercifully and wisely withheld from me as long as possible;
of the supernatural rumours that took root so deep; but no word or hint had come to me of a
man who had come across the orbit of her life, much less of all that has resulted from it.
Neither had I known of her being carried off, or of the thrice gallant rescue of her by Rupert.
Little wonder that I thought so highly of him even at the first moment I had a clear view of
him when he sank down to sleep before me.  Why, the man must be a marvel.  Even our mountaineers
could not match such endurance as his.  In the course of her narrative my daughter told me
of how, being wearied with her long waiting in the tomb, and waking to find herself alone when
the floods were out, and even the Crypt submerged, she sought safety and warmth elsewhere;
and how she came to the Castle in the night, and found the strange man alone.  I said: "That
was dangerous, daughter, if not wrong.  The man, brave and devoted as he is, must answer me--your
father."  At that she was greatly upset, and before going on with her narrative, drew me close
in her arms, and whispered to me:

"Be gentle to me, father, for I have had much to bear.  And be good to him, for he holds my
heart in his breast!"  I reassured her with a gentle pressure--there was no need to speak.
She then went on to tell me about her marriage, and how her husband, who had fallen into the
belief that she was a Vampire, had determined to give even his soul for her; and how she had
on the night of the marriage left him and gone back to the tomb to play to the end the grim
comedy which she had undertaken to perform till my return; and how, on the second night after
her marriage, as she was in the garden of the Castle--going, as she shyly told me, to see if
all was well with her husband--she was seized secretly, muffled up, bound, and carried off.
Here she made a pause and a digression. Evidently some fear lest her husband and myself should
quarrel assailed her, for she said:

"Do understand, father, that Rupert's marriage to me was in all ways regular, and quite in
accord with our customs.  Before we were married I told the Archbishop of my wish.  He, as
your representative during your absence, consented himself, and brought the matter to the notice
of the Vladika and the Archimandrites.  All these concurred, having exacted from me--very properly,
I think--a sacred promise to adhere to my self-appointed task.  The marriage itself was orthodox
in all ways--though so far unusual that it was held at night, and in darkness, save for the
lights appointed by the ritual.  As to that, the Archbishop himself, or the Archimandrite of
Spazac, who assisted him, or the Vladika, who acted as Paranymph, will, all or any of them,
give you full details.  Your representative made all inquiries as to Rupert Sent Leger, who
lived in Vissarion, though he did not know who I was, or from his point of view who I had been.
But I must tell you of my rescue."

And so she went on to tell me of that unavailing journey south by her captors; of their bafflement
by the cordon which Rupert had established at the first word of danger to "the daughter of
our leader," though he little knew who the "leader" was, or who was his "daughter"; of how
the brutal marauders tortured her to speed with their daggers; and how her wounds left blood-marks
on the ground as she passed along; then of the halt in the valley, when the marauders came
to know that their road north was menaced, if not already blocked; of the choosing of the murderers,
and their keeping ward over her whilst their companions went to survey the situation; and of
her gallant rescue by that noble fellow, her husband--my son I shall call him henceforth, and
thank God that I may have that happiness and that honour!

Then my daughter went on to tell me of the race back to Vissarion, when Rupert went ahead of
all--as a leader should do; of the summoning of the Archbishop and the National Council; and
of their placing the nation's handjar in Rupert's hand; of the journey to Ilsin, and the flight
of my daughter--and my son--on the aeroplane.

The rest I knew.

As she finished, the sleeping man stirred and woke--broad awake in a second--sure sign of a
man accustomed to campaign and adventure.  At a glance he recalled everything that had been,
and sprang to his feet.  He stood respectfully before me for a few seconds before speaking.
Then he said, with an open, engaging smile:

"I see, sir, you know all.  Am I forgiven--for Teuta's sake as well as my own?"  By this time
I was also on my feet.  A man like that walks straight into my heart.  My daughter, too, had
risen, and stood by my side.  I put out my hand and grasped his, which seemed to leap to meet
me--as only the hand of a swordsman can do.

"I am glad you are my son!" I said.  It was all I could say, and I meant it and all it implied.
We shook hands warmly.  Teuta was pleased; she kissed me, and then stood holding my arm with
one hand, whilst she linked her other hand in the arm of her husband.

He summoned one of the sentries without, and told him to ask Captain Rooke to come to him.
The latter had been ready for a call, and came at once.  When through the open flap of the
tent we saw him coming, Rupert--as I must call him now, because Teuta wishes it; and I like
to do it myself--said:

"I must be off to board the Turkish vessel before it comes inshore. Good-bye, sir, in case
we do not meet again."  He said the last few words in so low a voice that I only could hear
them.  Then he kissed his wife, and told her he expected to be back in time for breakfast,
and was gone. He met Rooke--I am hardly accustomed to call him Captain as yet, though, indeed,
he well deserves it--at the edge of the cordon of sentries, and they went quickly together
towards the port, where the yacht was lying with steam up.

BOOK VII: THE EMPIRE OF THE AIR

FROM THE REPORT OF CRISTOFEROS, WAR-SCRIBE TO THE NATIONAL COUNCIL.

                                                           July 7, 1907.

When the Gospodar Rupert and Captain Rooke came within hailing distance of the strange ship,
the former hailed her, using one after another the languages of England, Germany, France, Russia,
Turkey, Greece, Spain, Portugal, and another which I did not know; I think it must have been
American.  By this time the whole line of the bulwark was covered by a row of Turkish faces.
When, in Turkish, the Gospodar asked for the Captain, the latter came to the gangway, which
had been opened, and stood there.  His uniform was that of the Turkish navy--of that I am prepared
to swear--but he made signs of not understanding what had been said; whereupon the Gospodar
spoke again, but in French this time.  I append the exact conversation which took place, none
other joining in it.  I took down in shorthand the words of both as they were spoken:

THE GOSPODAR.  "Are you the Captain of this ship?"

THE CAPTAIN.  "I am."

GOSPODAR.  "To what nationality do you belong?"

CAPTAIN.  "It matters not.  I am Captain of this ship."

GOSPODAR.  "I alluded to your ship.  What national flag is she under?"

CAPTAIN (throwing his eye over the top-hamper).  "I do not see that any flag is flying."

GOSPODAR.  "I take it that, as commander, you can allow me on board with my two companions?"

CAPTAIN.  "I can, upon proper request being made!"

GOSPODAR (taking off his cap).  "I ask your courtesy, Captain.  I am the representative and
accredited officer of the National Council of the Land of the Blue Mountains, in whose waters
you now are; and on their account I ask for a formal interview on urgent matters."

The Turk, who was, I am bound to say, in manner most courteous as yet, gave some command to
his officers, whereupon the companion-ladders and stage were lowered and the gangway manned,
as is usual for the reception on a ship of war of an honoured guest.

CAPTAIN.  "You are welcome, sir--you and your two companions--as you request."

The Gospodar bowed.  Our companion-ladder was rigged on the instant, and a launch lowered.
The Gospodar and Captain Rooke--taking me with them--entered, and rowed to the warship, where
we were all honourably received.  There were an immense number of men on board, soldiers as
well as seamen.  It looked more like a warlike expedition than a fighting-ship in time of peace.
As we stepped on the deck, the seamen and marines, who were all armed as at drill, presented
arms.  The Gospodar went first towards the Captain, and Captain Rooke and I followed close
behind him. The Gospodar spoke:

"I am Rupert Sent Leger, a subject of his Britannic Majesty, presently residing at Vissarion,
in the Land of the Blue Mountains.  I am at present empowered to act for the National Council
in all matters.  Here is my credential!"  As he spoke he handed to the Captain a letter.  It
was written in five different languages--Balkan, Turkish, Greek, English, and French.  The
Captain read it carefully all through, forgetful for the moment that he had seemingly been
unable to understand the Gospodar's question spoken in the Turkish tongue.  Then he answered:

"I see the document is complete.  May I ask on what subject you wish to see me?"

GOSPODAR.  "You are here in a ship of war in Blue Mountain waters, yet you fly no flag of any
nation.  You have sent armed men ashore in your boats, thus committing an act of war.  The
National Council of the Land of the Blue Mountains requires to know what nation you serve,
and why the obligations of international law are thus broken."

The Captain seemed to wait for further speech, but the Gospodar remained silent; whereupon
the former spoke.

CAPTAIN.  "I am responsible to my own--chiefs.  I refuse to answer your question."

The Gospodar spoke at once in reply.

GOSPODAR.  "Then, sir, you, as commander of a ship--and especially a ship of war--must know
that in thus violating national and maritime laws you, and all on board this ship, are guilty
of an act of piracy.  This is not even piracy on the high seas.  You are not merely within
territorial waters, but you have invaded a national port.  As you refuse to disclose the nationality
of your ship, I accept, as you seem to do, your status as that of a pirate, and shall in due
season act accordingly."

CAPTAIN (with manifest hostility).  "I accept the responsibility of my own acts.  Without admitting
your contention, I tell you now that whatever action you take shall be at your own peril and
that of your National Council.  Moreover, I have reason to believe that my men who were sent
ashore on special service have been beleaguered in a tower which can be seen from the ship.
Before dawn this morning firing was heard from that direction, from which I gather that attack
was made on them.  They, being only a small party, may have been murdered.  If such be so,
I tell you that you and your miserable little nation, as you call it, shall pay such blood-money
as you never thought of.  I am responsible for this, and, by Allah! there shall be a great
revenge.  You have not in all your navy--if navy you have at all--power to cope with even one
ship like this, which is but one of many.  My guns shall be trained on Ilsin, to which end
I have come inshore.  You and your companions have free conduct back to port; such is due to
the white flag which you fly. Fifteen minutes will bring you back whence you came.  Go!  And
remember that whatever you may do amongst your mountain defiles, at sea you cannot even defend
yourselves."

GOSPODAR (slowly and in a ringing voice).  "The Land of the Blue Mountains has its own defences
on sea and land.  Its people know how to defend themselves."

CAPTAIN (taking out his watch).  "It is now close on five bells.  At the first stroke of six
bells our guns shall open fire."

GOSPODAR (calmly).  "It is my last duty to warn you, sir--and to warn all on this ship--that
much may happen before even the first stroke of six bells.  Be warned in time, and give over
this piratical attack, the very threat of which may be the cause of much bloodshed."

CAPTAIN (violently).  "Do you dare to threaten me, and, moreover, my ship's company?  We are
one, I tell you, in this ship; and the last man shall perish like the first ere this enterprise
fail.  Go!"

With a bow, the Gospodar turned and went down the ladder, we following him.  In a couple of
minutes the yacht was on her way to the port.

FROM RUPERT'S JOURNAL.

                                                          July 10, 1907.

When we turned shoreward after my stormy interview with the pirate Captain--I can call him
nothing else at present, Rooke gave orders to a quartermaster on the bridge, and The Lady began
to make to a little northward of Ilsin port.  Rooke himself went aft to the wheel-house, taking
several men with him.

When we were quite near the rocks--the water is so deep here that there is no danger--we slowed
down, merely drifting along southwards towards the port.  I was myself on the bridge, and could
see all over the decks. I could also see preparations going on upon the warship.  Ports were
opened, and the great guns on the turrets were lowered for action.  When we were starboard
broadside on to the warship, I saw the port side of the steering-house open, and Rooke's men
sliding out what looked like a huge grey crab, which by tackle from within the wheel-house
was lowered softly into the sea.  The position of the yacht hid the operation from sight of
the warship.   The doors were shut again, and the yacht's pace began to quicken.  We ran into
the port.  I had a vague idea that Rooke had some desperate project on hand.  Not for nothing
had he kept the wheel-house locked on that mysterious crab.

All along the frontage was a great crowd of eager men.  But they had considerately left the
little mole at the southern entrance, whereon was a little tower, on whose round top a signal-gun
was placed, free for my own use.  When I was landed on this pier I went along to the end, and,
climbing the narrow stair within, went out on the sloping roof.  I stood up, for I was determined
to show the Turks that I was not afraid for myself, as they would understand when the bombardment
should begin.  It was now but a very few minutes before the fatal hour--six bells.  But all
the same I was almost in a state of despair.  It was terrible to think of all those poor souls
in the town who had done nothing wrong, and who were to be wiped out in the coming blood-thirsty,
wanton attack.  I raised my glasses to see how preparations were going on upon the warship.

As I looked I had a momentary fear that my eyesight was giving way.  At one moment I had the
deck of the warship focussed with my glasses, and could see every detail as the gunners waited
for the word to begin the bombardment with the great guns of the barbettes.  The next I saw
nothing but the empty sea.  Then in another instant there was the ship as before, but the details
were blurred.  I steadied myself against the signal-gun, and looked again.  Not more than two,
or at the most three, seconds had elapsed.  The ship was, for the moment, full in view.  As
I looked, she gave a queer kind of quick shiver, prow and stern, and then sideways.  It was
for all the world like a rat shaken in the mouth of a skilled terrier.  Then she remained still,
the one placid thing to be seen, for all around her the sea seemed to shiver in little independent
eddies, as when water is broken without a current to guide it.

I continued to look, and when the deck was, or seemed, quite still--for the shivering water
round the ship kept catching my eyes through the outer rays of the lenses--I noticed that nothing
was stirring.  The men who had been at the guns were all lying down; the men in the fighting-tops
had leaned forward or backward, and their arms hung down helplessly.  Everywhere was desolation--in
so far as life was concerned. Even a little brown bear, which had been seated on the cannon
which was being put into range position, had jumped or fallen on deck, and lay there stretched
out--and still.  It was evident that some terrible shock had been given to the mighty war-vessel.
Without a doubt or a thought why I did so, I turned my eyes towards where The Lady lay, port
broadside now to the inside, in the harbour mouth.  I had the key now to the mystery of Rooke's
proceedings with the great grey crab.

As I looked I saw just outside the harbour a thin line of cleaving water. This became more
marked each instant, till a steel disc with glass eyes that shone in the light of the sun rose
above the water.  It was about the size of a beehive, and was shaped like one.  It made a straight
line for the aft of the yacht.  At the same moment, in obedience to some command, given so
quietly that I did not hear it, the men went below--all save some few, who began to open out
doors in the port side of the wheel-house.  The tackle was run out through an opened gangway
on that side, and a man stood on the great hook at the lower end, balancing himself by hanging
on the chain.  In a few seconds he came up again.  The chain tightened and the great grey crab
rose over the edge of the deck, and was drawn into the wheel-house, the doors of which were
closed, shutting in a few only of the men.

I waited, quite quiet.  After a space of a few minutes, Captain Rooke in his uniform walked
out of the wheel-house.  He entered a small boat, which had been in the meantime lowered for
the purpose, and was rowed to the steps on the mole.  Ascending these, he came directly towards
the signal-tower.  When he had ascended and stood beside me, he saluted.

"Well?" I asked.

"All well, sir," he answered.  "We shan't have any more trouble with that lot, I think.  You
warned that pirate--I wish he had been in truth a clean, honest, straightforward pirate, instead
of the measly Turkish swab he was--that something might occur before the first stroke of six
bells. Well, something has occurred, and for him and all his crew that six bells will never
sound.  So the Lord fights for the Cross against the Crescent! Bismillah.  Amen!"  He said
this in a manifestly formal way, as though declaiming a ritual.  The next instant he went on
in the thoroughly practical conventional way which was usual to him:

"May I ask a favour, Mr. Sent Leger?"

"A thousand, my dear Rooke," I said.  "You can't ask me anything which I shall not freely grant.
And I speak within my brief from the National Council.  You have saved Ilsin this day, and
the Council will thank you for it in due time."

"Me, sir?" he said, with a look of surprise on his face which seemed quite genuine.  "If you
think that, I am well out of it.  I was afraid, when I woke, that you might court-martial me!"

"Court-martial you!  What for?" I asked, surprised in my turn.

"For going to sleep on duty, sir!  And the fact is, I was worn out in the attack on the Silent
Tower last night, and when you had your interview with the pirate--all good pirates forgive
me for the blasphemy! Amen!--and I knew that everything was going smoothly, I went into the
wheel-house and took forty winks."  He said all this without moving so much as an eyelid, from
which I gathered that he wished absolute silence to be observed on my part.  Whilst I was revolving
this in my mind he went on:

"Touching that request, sir.  When I have left you and the Voivode--and the Voivodin, of course--at
Vissarion, together with such others as you may choose to bring there with you, may I bring
the yacht back here for a spell?  I rather think that there is a good deal of cleaning up to
be done, and the crew of The Lady with myself are the men to do it.  We shall be back by nightfall
at the creek."

"Do as you think best, Admiral Rooke," I said.

"Admiral?"

"Yes, Admiral.  At present I can only say that tentatively, but by to-morrow I am sure the
National Council will have confirmed it.  I am afraid, old friend, that your squadron will
be only your flagship for the present; but later we may do better."

"So long as I am Admiral, your honour, I shall have no other flagship than The Lady.  I am
not a young man, but, young or old, my pennon shall float over no other deck.  Now, one other
favour, Mr. Sent Leger? It is a corollary of the first, so I do not hesitate to ask.  May I
appoint Lieutenant Desmond, my present First Officer, to the command of the battleship?  Of
course, he will at first only command the prize crew; but in such case he will fairly expect
the confirmation of his rank later.  I had better, perhaps, tell you, sir, that he is a very
capable seaman, learned in all the sciences that pertain to a battleship, and bred in the first
navy in the world."

"By all means, Admiral.  Your nomination shall, I think I may promise you, be confirmed."

Not another word we spoke.  I returned with him in his boat to The Lady, which was brought
to the dock wall, where we were received with tumultuous cheering.

I hurried off to my Wife and the Voivode.  Rooke, calling Desmond to him, went on the bridge
of The Lady, which turned, and went out at terrific speed to the battleship, which was already
drifting up northward on the tide.

FROM THE REPORT OF CRISTOFEROS, SCRIBE OF THE NATIONAL COUNCIL OF THE LAND OF THE BLUE MOUNTAINS.

                                                           July 8, 1907.

The meeting of the National Council, July 6, was but a continuation of that held before the
rescue of the Voivodin Vissarion, the members of the Council having been during the intervening
night housed in the Castle of Vissarion.   When, in the early morning, they met, all were jubilant;
for late at night the fire-signal had flamed up from Ilsin with the glad news that the Voivode
Peter Vissarion was safe, having been rescued with great daring on an aeroplane by his daughter
and the Gospodar Rupert, as the people call him--Mister Rupert Sent Leger, as he is in his
British name and degree.

Whilst the Council was sitting, word came that a great peril to the town of Ilsin had been
averted.  A war-vessel acknowledging to no nationality, and therefore to be deemed a pirate,
had threatened to bombard the town; but just before the time fixed for the fulfilment of her
threat, she was shaken to such an extent by some sub-aqueous means that, though she herself
was seemingly uninjured, nothing was left alive on board.  Thus the Lord preserves His own!
The consideration of this, as well as the other incident, was postponed until the coming Voivode
and the Gospodar Rupert, together with who were already on their way hither.

THE SAME (LATER IN THE SAME DAY).

The Council resumed its sitting at four o'clock.  The Voivode Peter Vissarion and the Voivodin
Teuta had arrived with the "Gospodar Rupert," as the mountaineers call him (Mr. Rupert Sent
Leger) on the armoured yacht he calls The Lady.  The National Council showed great pleasure
when the Voivode entered the hall in which the Council met.  He seemed much gratified by the
reception given to him.  Mr. Rupert Sent Leger, by the express desire of the Council, was asked
to be present at the meeting.  He took a seat at the bottom of the hall, and seemed to prefer
to remain there, though asked by the President of the Council to sit at the top of the table
with himself and the Voivode.

When the formalities of such Councils had been completed, the Voivode handed to the President
a memorandum of his report on his secret mission to foreign Courts on behalf of the National
Council.  He then explained at length, for the benefit of the various members of the Council,
the broad results of his mission.  The result was, he said, absolutely satisfactory.  Everywhere
he had been received with distinguished courtesy, and given a sympathetic hearing.  Several
of the Powers consulted had made delay in giving final answers, but this, he explained, was
necessarily due to new considerations arising from the international complications which were
universally dealt with throughout the world as "the Balkan Crisis."  In time, however (the
Voivode went on), these matters became so far declared as to allow the waiting Powers to form
definite judgment--which, of course, they did not declare to him--as to their own ultimate
action.  The final result--if at this initial stage such tentative setting forth of their own
attitude in each case can be so named--was that he returned full of hope (founded, he might
say, upon a justifiable personal belief) that the Great Powers throughout the world--North,
South, East, and West--were in thorough sympathy with the Land of the Blue Mountains in its
aspirations for the continuance of its freedom.  "I also am honoured," he continued, "to bring
to you, the Great Council of the nation, the assurance of protection against unworthy aggression
on the part of neighbouring nations of present greater strength."

Whilst he was speaking, the Gospodar Rupert was writing a few words on a strip of paper, which
he sent up to the President.  When the Voivode had finished speaking, there was a prolonged
silence.  The President rose, and in a hush said that the Council would like to hear Mr. Rupert
Sent Leger, who had a communication to make regarding certain recent events.

Mr. Rupert Sent Leger rose, and reported how, since he had been entrusted by the Council with
the rescue of the Voivode Peter of Vissarion, he had, by aid of the Voivodin, effected the
escape of the Voivode from the Silent Tower; also that, following this happy event, the mountaineers,
who had made a great cordon round the Tower so soon as it was known that the Voivode had been
imprisoned within it, had stormed it in the night. As a determined resistance was offered by
the marauders, who had used it as a place of refuge, none of these escaped.  He then went on
to tell how he sought interview with the Captain of the strange warship, which, without flying
any flag, invaded our waters.  He asked the President to call on me to read the report of that
meeting.  This, in obedience to his direction, I did.  The acquiescent murmuring of the Council
showed how thoroughly they endorsed Mr. Sent Leger's words and acts.

When I resumed my seat, Mr. Sent Leger described how, just before the time fixed by the "pirate
Captain"--so he designated him, as did every speaker thereafter--the warship met with some
under-sea accident, which had a destructive effect on all on board her.  Then he added certain
words, which I give verbatim, as I am sure that others will some time wish to remember them
in their exactness:

"By the way, President and Lords of the Council, I trust I may ask you to confirm Captain Rooke,
of the armoured yacht The Lady, to be Admiral of the Squadron of the Land of the Blue Mountains,
and also Captain (tentatively) Desmond, late First-Lieutenant of The Lady, to the command of
the second warship of our fleet--the as yet unnamed vessel, whose former Captain threatened
to bombard Ilsin.  My Lords, Admiral Rooke has done great service to the Land of the Blue Mountains,
and deserves well at your hands.  You will have in him, I am sure, a great official.  One who
will till his last breath give you good and loyal service."

He had sat down, the President put to the Council resolutions, which were passed by acclamation.
Admiral Rooke was given command of the navy, and Captain Desmond confirmed in his appointment
to the captaincy of the new ship, which was, by a further resolution, named The Gospodar Rupert.

In thanking the Council for acceding to his request, and for the great honour done him in the
naming of the ship, Mr. Sent Leger said:

"May I ask that the armoured yacht The Lady be accepted by you, the National Council, on behalf
of the nation, as a gift on behalf of the cause of freedom from the Voivodin Teuta?"

In response to the mighty cheer of the Council with which the splendid gift was accepted the
Gospodar Rupert--Mr. Sent Leger--bowed, and went quietly out of the room.

As no agenda of the meeting had been prepared, there was for a time, not silence, but much
individual conversation.  In the midst of it the Voivode rose up, whereupon there was a strict
silence.  All listened with an intensity of eagerness whilst he spoke.

"President and Lords of the Council, Archbishop, and Vladika, I should but ill show my respect
did I hesitate to tell you at this the first opportunity I have had of certain matters personal
primarily to myself, but which, in the progress of recent events, have come to impinge on the
affairs of the nation.  Until I have done so, I shall not feel that I have done a duty, long
due to you or your predecessors in office, and which I hope you will allow me to say that I
have only kept back for purposes of statecraft.  May I ask that you will come back with me
in memory to the year 1890, when our struggle against Ottoman aggression, later on so successfully
brought to a close, was begun.  We were then in a desperate condition.  Our finances had run
so low that we could not purchase even the bread which we required.  Nay, more, we could not
procure through the National Exchequer what we wanted more than bread--arms of modern effectiveness;
for men may endure hunger and yet fight well, as the glorious past of our country has proved
again and again and again.  But when our foes are better armed than we are, the penalty is
dreadful to a nation small as our own is in number, no matter how brave their hearts.  In this
strait I myself had to secretly raise a sufficient sum of money to procure the weapons we needed.
To this end I sought the assistance of a great merchant-prince, to whom our nation as well
as myself was known.  He met me in the same generous spirit which he had shown to other struggling
nationalities throughout a long and honourable career.  When I pledged to him as security my
own estates, he wished to tear up the bond, and only under pressure would he meet my wishes
in this respect.  Lords of the Council, it was his money, thus generously advanced, which procured
for us the arms with which we hewed out our freedom.

"Not long ago that noble merchant--and here I trust you will pardon me that I am so moved as
to perhaps appear to suffer in want of respect to this great Council--this noble merchant passed
to his account--leaving to a near kinsman of his own the royal fortune which he had amassed.
Only a few hours ago that worthy kinsman of the benefactor of our nation made it known to me
that in his last will he had bequeathed to me, by secret trust, the whole of those estates
which long ago I had forfeited by effluxion of time, inasmuch as I had been unable to fulfil
the terms of my voluntary bond.  It grieves me to think that I have had to keep you so long
in ignorance of the good thought and wishes and acts of this great man.

"But it was by his wise counsel, fortified by my own judgment, that I was silent; for, indeed,
I feared, as he did, lest in our troublous times some doubting spirit without our boundaries,
or even within it, might mistrust the honesty of my purposes for public good, because I was
no longer one whose whole fortune was invested within our confines.  This prince-merchant,
the great English Roger Melton--let his name be for ever graven on the hearts of our people!--kept
silent during his own life, and enjoined on others to come after him to keep secret from the
men of the Blue Mountains that secret loan made to me on their behalf, lest in their eyes I,
who had striven to be their friend and helper, should suffer wrong repute.  But, happily, he
has left me free to clear myself in your eyes.  Moreover, by arranging to have--under certain
contingencies, which have come to pass--the estates which were originally my own retransferred
to me, I have no longer the honour of having given what I could to the national cause.  All
such now belongs to him; for it was his money--and his only--which purchased our national armament.

"His worthy kinsman you already know, for he has not only been amongst you for many months,
but has already done you good service in his own person.  He it was who, as a mighty warrior,
answered the summons of the Vladika when misfortune came upon my house in the capture by enemies
of my dear daughter, the Voivodin Teuta, whom you hold in your hearts; who, with a chosen band
of our brothers, pursued the marauders, and himself, by a deed of daring and prowess, of which
poets shall hereafter sing, saved her, when hope itself seemed to be dead, from their ruthless
hands, and brought her back to us; who administered condign punishment to the miscreants who
had dared to so wrong her.  He it was who later took me, your servant, out of the prison wherein
another band of Turkish miscreants held me captive; rescued me, with the help of my dear daughter,
whom he had already freed, whilst I had on my person the documents of international secrecy
of which I have already advised you--rescued me whilst I had been as yet unsubjected to the
indignity of search.

"Beyond this you know now that of which I was in partial ignorance: how he had, through the
skill and devotion of your new Admiral, wrought destruction on a hecatomb of our malignant
foes.  You who have received for the nation the splendid gift of the little warship, which
already represents a new era in naval armament, can understand the great-souled generosity
of the man who has restored the vast possessions of my House. On our way hither from Ilsin,
Rupert Sent Leger made known to me the terms of the trust of his noble uncle, Roger Melton,
and--believe me that he did so generously, with a joy that transcended my own--restored to
the last male of the Vissarion race the whole inheritance of a noble line.

"And now, my Lords of the Council, I come to another matter, in which I find myself in something
of a difficulty, for I am aware that in certain ways you actually know more of it than even
I myself do.  It is regarding the marriage of my daughter to Rupert Sent Leger.  It is known
to me that the matter has been brought before you by the Archbishop, who, as guardian of my
daughter during my absence on the service of the nation, wished to obtain your sanction, as
till my return he held her safety in trust.  This was so, not from any merit of mine, but because
she, in her own person, had undertaken for the service of our nation a task of almost incredible
difficulty.  My Lords, were she child of another father, I should extol to the skies her bravery,
her self-devotion, her loyalty to the land she loves.  Why, then, should I hesitate to speak
of her deeds in fitting terms, since it is my duty, my glory, to hold them in higher honour
than can any in this land?  I shall not shame her--or even myself--by being silent when such
a duty urges me to speak, as Voivode, as trusted envoy of our nation, as father.  Ages hence
loyal men and women of our Land of the Blue Mountains will sing her deeds in song and tell
them in story.  Her name, Teuta, already sacred in these regions, where it was held by a great
Queen, and honoured by all men, will hereafter be held as a symbol and type of woman's devotion.
Oh, my Lords, we pass along the path of life, the best of us but a little time marching in
the sunlight between gloom and gloom, and it is during that march that we must be judged for
the future.  This brave woman has won knightly spurs as well as any Paladin of old.  So is
it meet that ere she might mate with one worthy of her you, who hold in your hands the safety
and honour of the State, should give your approval.  To you was it given to sit in judgment
on the worth of this gallant Englisher, now my son. You judged him then, before you had seen
his valour, his strength, and skill exercised on behalf of a national cause.  You judged wisely,
oh, my brothers, and out of a grateful heart I thank you one and all for it. Well has he justified
your trust by his later acts.  When, in obedience to the summons of the Vladika, he put the
nation in a blaze and ranged our boundaries with a ring of steel, he did so unknowing that
what was dearest to him in the world was at stake.  He saved my daughter's honour and happiness,
and won her safety by an act of valour that outvies any told in history.  He took my daughter
with him to bring me out from the Silent Tower on the wings of the air, when earth had for
me no possibility of freedom--I, that had even then in my possession the documents involving
other nations which the Soldan would fain have purchased with the half of his empire.

"Henceforth to me, Lords of the Council, this brave man must ever be as a son of my heart,
and I trust that in his name grandsons of my own may keep in bright honour the name which in
glorious days of old my fathers made illustrious.  Did I know how adequately to thank you for
your interest in my child, I would yield up to you my very soul in thanks."

The speech of the Voivode was received with the honour of the Blue Mountains--the drawing and
raising of handjars.

FROM RUPERT'S JOURNAL.

                                                          July 14, 1907.

For nearly a week we waited for some message from Constantinople, fully expecting either a
declaration of war, or else some inquiry so couched as to make war an inevitable result.  The
National Council remained on at Vissarion as the guests of the Voivode, to whom, in accordance
with my uncle's will, I had prepared to re-transfer all his estates.  He was, by the way, unwilling
at first to accept, and it was only when I showed him Uncle Roger's letter, and made him read
the Deed of Transfer prepared in anticipation by Mr. Trent, that he allowed me to persuade
him.  Finally he said:

"As you, my good friends, have so arranged, I must accept, be it only in honour to the wishes
of the dead.  But remember, I only do so but for the present, reserving to myself the freedom
to withdraw later if I so desire."

But Constantinople was silent.  The whole nefarious scheme was one of the "put-up jobs" which
are part of the dirty work of a certain order of statecraft--to be accepted if successful;
to be denied in case of failure.

The matter stood thus: Turkey had thrown the dice--and lost.  Her men were dead; her ship was
forfeit.  It was only some ten days after the warship was left derelict with every living thing--that
is, everything that had been living--with its neck broken, as Rooke informed me, when he brought
the ship down the creek, and housed it in the dock behind the armoured gates--that we saw an
item in The Roma copied from The Constantinople Journal of July 9:

    "LOSS OF AN OTTOMAN IRONCLAD WITH ALL HANDS.

    "News has been received at Constantinople of the total loss, with all
    hands, of one of the newest and finest warships in the Turkish
    fleet--The Mahmoud, Captain Ali Ali--which foundered in a storm on
    the night of July 5, some distance off Cabrera, in the Balearic
    Isles.  There were no survivors, and no wreckage was discovered by
    the ships which went in relief--the Pera and the Mustapha--or
    reported from anywhere along the shores of the islands, of which
    exhaustive search was made.  The Mahmoud was double-manned, as she
    carried a full extra crew sent on an educational cruise on the most
    perfectly scientifically equipped warship on service in the
    Mediterranean waters."

When the Voivode and I talked over the matter, he said:

"After all, Turkey is a shrewd Power.  She certainly seems to know when she is beaten, and
does not intend to make a bad thing seem worse in the eyes of the world."

Well, 'tis a bad wind that blows good to nobody.  As The Mahmoud was lost off the Balearics,
it cannot have been her that put the marauders on shore and trained her big guns on Ilsin.
We take it, therefore, that the latter must have been a pirate, and as we have taken her derelict
in our waters, she is now ours in all ways.  Anyhow, she is ours, and is the first ship of
her class in the navy of the Blue Mountains.  I am inclined to think that even if she was--or
is still--a Turkish ship, Admiral Rooke would not be inclined to let her go.  As for Captain
Desmond, I think he would go straight out of his mind if such a thing was to be even suggested
to him.

It will be a pity if we have any more trouble, for life here is very happy with us all now.
The Voivode is, I think, like a man in a dream. Teuta is ideally happy, and the real affection
which sprang up between them when she and Aunt Janet met is a joy to think of.  I had posted
Teuta about her, so that when they should meet my wife might not, by any inadvertence, receive
or cause any pain.  But the moment Teuta saw her she ran straight over to her and lifted her
in her strong young arms, and, raising her up as one would lift a child, kissed her.  Then,
when she had put her sitting in the chair from which she had arisen when we entered the room,
she knelt down before her, and put her face down in her lap.  Aunt Janet's face was a study;
I myself could hardly say whether at the first moment surprise or joy predominated.  But there
could be no doubt about it the instant after.  She seemed to beam with happiness. When Teuta
knelt to her, she could only say:

"My dear, my dear, I am glad!  Rupert's wife, you and I must love each other very much."  Seeing
that they were laughing and crying in each other's arms, I thought it best to come away and
leave them alone.  And I didn't feel a bit lonely either when I was out of sight of them. 
I knew that where those two dear women were there was a place for my own heart.

When I came back, Teuta was sitting on Aunt Janet's knee.  It seemed rather stupendous for
the old lady, for Teuta is such a splendid creature that even when she sits on my own knee
and I catch a glimpse of us in some mirror, I cannot but notice what a nobly-built girl she is.

My wife was jumping up as soon as I was seen, but Aunt Janet held her tight to her, and said:

"Don't stir, dear.  It is such happiness to me to have you there.  Rupert has always been my
'little boy,' and, in spite of all his being such a giant, he is so still.  And so you, that
he loves, must be my little girl--in spite of all your beauty and your strength--and sit on
my knee, till you can place there a little one that shall be dear to us all, and that shall
let me feel my youth again.  When first I saw you I was surprised, for, somehow, though I had
never seen you nor even heard of you, I seemed to know your face.  Sit where you are, dear.
It is only Rupert--and we both love him."

Teuta looked at me, flushing rosily; but she sat quiet, and drew the old lady's white head
on her young breast.

JANET MACKELPIE'S NOTES.

                                                           July 8, 1907.

I used to think that whenever Rupert should get married or start on the way to it by getting
engaged--I would meet his future wife with something of the same affection that I have always
had for himself.  But I know now that what was really in my mind was jealousy, and that I was
really fighting against my own instincts, and pretending to myself that I was not jealous.
Had I ever had the faintest idea that she would be anything the least like Teuta, that sort
of feeling should never have had even a foothold.  No wonder my dear boy is in love with her,
for, truth to tell, I am in love with her myself.  I don't think I ever met a creature--a woman
creature, of course, I mean--with so many splendid qualities.  I almost fear to say it, lest
it should seem to myself wrong; but I think she is as good as a woman as Rupert is as a man.
And what more than that can I say?  I thought I loved her and trusted her, and knew her all
I could, until this morning.

I was in my own room, as it is still called.  For, though Rupert tells me in confidence that
under his uncle's will the whole estate of Vissarion, Castle and all, really belongs to the
Voivode, and though the Voivode has been persuaded to accept the position, he (the Voivode)
will not allow anything to be changed.  He will not even hear a word of my going, or changing
my room, or anything.  And Rupert backs him up in it, and Teuta too.  So what am I to do but
let the dears have their way?

Well, this morning, when Rupert was with the Voivode at a meeting of the National Council in
the Great Hall, Teuta came to me, and (after closing the door and bolting it, which surprised
me a little) came and knelt down beside me, and put her face in my lap.  I stroked her beautiful
black hair, and said:

"What is it, Teuta darling?  Is there any trouble?  And why did you bolt the door?  Has anything
happened to Rupert?"  When she looked up I saw that her beautiful black eyes, with the stars
in them, were overflowing with tears not yet shed.  But she smiled through them, and the tears
did not fall.  When I saw her smile my heart was eased, and I said without thinking: "Thank
God, darling, Rupert is all right."

"I thank God, too, dear Aunt Janet!" she said softly; and I took her in my arms and laid her
head on my breast.

"Go on, dear," I said; "tell me what it is that troubles you?"  This time I saw the tears drop,
as she lowered her head and hid her face from me.

"I'm afraid I have deceived you, Aunt Janet, and that you will not--cannot--forgive me."

"Lord save you, child!" I said, "there's nothing that you could do that I could not and would
not forgive.  Not that you would ever do anything base, for that is the only thing that is
hard to forgive.  Tell me now what troubles you."

She looked up in my eyes fearlessly, this time with only the signs of tears that had been,
and said proudly:

"Nothing base, Aunt Janet.  My father's daughter would not willingly be base.  I do not think
she could.  Moreover, had I ever done anything base I should not be here, for--for--I should
never have been Rupert's wife!"

"Then what is it?  Tell your old Aunt Janet, dearie."  She answered me with another question:

"Aunt Janet, do you know who I am, and how I first met Rupert?"

"You are the Voivodin Teuta Vissarion--the daughter of the Voivode--Or, rather, you were; you
are now Mrs. Rupert Sent Leger.  For he is still an Englishman, and a good subject of our noble
King."

"Yes, Aunt Janet," she said, "I am that, and proud to be it--prouder than I would be were I
my namesake, who was Queen in the old days.  But how and where did I see Rupert first?"  I
did not know, and frankly told her so.  So she answered her question herself:

"I saw him first in his own room at night."  I knew in my heart that in whatever she did had
been nothing wrong, so I sat silent waiting for her to go on:

"I was in danger, and in deadly fear.  I was afraid I might die--not that I fear death--and
I wanted help and warmth.  I was not dressed as I am now!"

On the instant it came to me how I knew her face, even the first time I had seen it.  I wished
to help her out of the embarrassing part of her confidence, so I said:

"Dearie, I think I know.  Tell me, child, will you put on the frock . . . the dress . . . costume
you wore that night, and let me see you in it? It is not mere idle curiosity, my child, but
something far, far above such idle folly."

"Wait for me a minute, Aunt Janet," she said, as she rose up; "I shall not be long."  Then
she left the room.

In a very few minutes she was back.  Her appearance might have frightened some people, for
she was clad only in a shroud.  Her feet were bare, and she walked across the room with the
gait of an empress, and stood before me with her eyes modestly cast down.  But when presently
she looked up and caught my eyes, a smile rippled over her face.  She threw herself once more
before me on her knees, and embraced me as she said:

"I was afraid I might frighten you, dear."  I knew I could truthfully reassure her as to that,
so I proceeded to do so:

"Do not worry yourself, my dear.  I am not by nature timid.  I come of a fighting stock which
has sent out heroes, and I belong to a family wherein is the gift of Second Sight.  Why should
we fear?  We know! Moreover, I saw you in that dress before.  Teuta, I saw you and Rupert married!"
This time she herself it was that seemed disconcerted.

"Saw us married!  How on earth did you manage to be there?"

"I was not there.  My Seeing was long before!  Tell me, dear, what day, or rather what night,
was it that you first saw Rupert?"  She answered sadly:

"I do not know.  Alas!  I lost count of the days as I lay in the tomb in that dreary Crypt."

"Was your--your clothing wet that night?" I asked.

"Yes.  I had to leave the Crypt, for a great flood was out, and the church was flooded.  I
had to seek help--warmth--for I feared I might die.  Oh, I was not, as I have told you, afraid
of death.  But I had undertaken a terrible task to which I had pledged myself.  It was for
my father's sake, and the sake of the Land, and I felt that it was a part of my duty to live.
And so I lived on, when death would have been relief. It was to tell you all about this that
I came to your room to-day.  But how did you see me--us--married?"

"Ah, my child!" I answered, "that was before the marriage took place. The morn after the night
that you came in the wet, when, having been troubled in uncanny dreaming, I came to see if
Rupert was a'richt, I lost remembrance o' my dreaming, for the floor was all wet, and that
took off my attention.  But later, the morn after Rupert used his fire in his room for the
first time, I told him what I had dreamt; for, lassie, my dear, I saw ye as bride at that weddin'
in fine lace o'er yer shrood, and orange-flowers and ithers in yer black hair; an' I saw the
stars in yer bonny een--the een I love.  But oh, my dear, when I saw the shrood, and kent what
it might mean, I expeckit to see the worms crawl round yer feet.  But do ye ask yer man to
tell ye what I tell't him that morn. 'Twill interest ye to know how the hairt o' men can learn
by dreams.  Has he ever tellt ye aught o' this?"

"No, dear," she said simply.  "I think that perhaps he was afraid that one or other of us,
if not both, might be upset by it if he did.  You see, he did not tell you anything at all
of our meeting, though I am sure that he will be glad when he knows that we both know all about
it, and have told each other everything."

That was very sweet of her, and very thoughtful in all ways, so I said that which I thought
would please her best--that is, the truth:

"Ah, lassie, that is what a wife should be--what a wife should do. Rupert is blessed and happy
to have his heart in your keeping."

I knew from the added warmth of her kiss what I had said had pleased her.

Letter from Ernest Roger Halbard Melton, Humcroft, Salop, to Rupert Sent Leger, Vissarion,
Land of the Blue Mountains.

                                                          July 29, 1907.

    MY DEAR COUSIN RUPERT,

    We have heard such glowing accounts of Vissarion that I am coming out
    to see you.  As you are yourself now a landowner, you will understand
    that my coming is not altogether a pleasure.  Indeed, it is a duty
    first.  When my father dies I shall be head of the family--the family
    of which Uncle Roger, to whom we were related, was a member.  It is
    therefore meet and fitting that I should know something of our family
    branches and of their Seats.  I am not giving you time for much
    warning, so am coming on immediately--in fact, I shall arrive almost
    as soon as this letter.  But I want to catch you in the middle of
    your tricks.  I hear that the Blue Mountaineer girls are peaches, so
    don't send them all away when you hear I'm coming!

    Do send a yacht up to Fiume to meet me.  I hear you have all sorts of
    craft at Vissarion.  The MacSkelpie, I hear, said you received her as
    a Queen; so I hope you will do the decent by one of your own flesh
    and blood, and the future Head of the House at that.  I shan't bring
    much of a retinue with me.  I wasn't made a billionaire by old
    Roger, so can only take my modest "man Friday"--whose name is
    Jenkinson, and a Cockney at that.  So don't have too much gold lace
    and diamond-hilted scimitars about, like a good chap, or else he'll
    want the very worst--his wyges ryzed.  That old image Rooke that came
    over for Miss McS., and whom by chance I saw at the attorney man's,
    might pilot me down from Fiume.  The old
    gentleman-by-Act-of-Parliament Mr. Bingham Trent (I suppose he has
    hyphened it by this time) told me that Miss McS. said he "did her
    proud" when she went over under his charge.  I shall be at Fiume on
    the evening of Wednesday, and shall stay at the Europa, which is, I
    am told, the least indecent hotel in the place.  So you know where to
    find me, or any of your attendant demons can know, in case I am to
    suffer "substituted service."

                                                 Your affectionate Cousin,
                                              ERNEST ROGER HALBARD MELTON.

Letter from Admiral Rooke to the Gospodar Rupert.

                                                         August 1, 1907.

    SIR,

    In obedience to your explicit direction that I should meet Mr. Ernest
    R. H. Melton at Fiume, and report to you exactly what occurred,
    "without keeping anything back,"--as you will remember you said, I
    beg to report.

    I brought the steam-yacht Trent to Fiume, arriving there on the
    morning of Thursday.  At 11.30 p.m.  I went to meet the train from
    St. Peter, due 11.40.  It was something late, arriving just as the
    clock was beginning to strike midnight.  Mr. Melton was on board, and
    with him his valet Jenkinson.  I am bound to say that he did not seem
    very pleased with his journey, and expressed much disappointment at
    not seeing Your Honour awaiting him.  I explained, as you directed,
    that you had to attend with the Voivode Vissarion and the Vladika the
    National Council, which met at Plazac, or that otherwise you would
    have done yourself the pleasure of coming to meet him.  I had, of
    course, reserved rooms (the Prince of Wales's suite), for him at the
    Re d'Ungheria, and had waiting the carriage which the proprietor had
    provided for the Prince of Wales when he stayed there.  Mr. Melton
    took his valet with him (on the box-seat), and I followed in a
    Stadtwagen with the luggage.  When I arrived, I found the maitre
    d'hotel in a stupor of concern.  The English nobleman, he said, had
    found fault with everything, and used to him language to which he was
    not accustomed.  I quieted him, telling him that the stranger was
    probably unused to foreign ways, and assuring him that Your Honour
    had every faith in him.  He announced himself satisfied and happy at
    the assurance.  But I noticed that he promptly put everything in the
    hands of the headwaiter, telling him to satisfy the milor at any
    cost, and then went away to some urgent business in Vienna.  Clever
    man!

    I took Mr. Melton's orders for our journey in the morning, and asked
    if there was anything for which he wished.  He simply said to me:

    "Everything is rotten.  Go to hell, and shut the door after you!"
    His man, who seems a very decent little fellow, though he is as vain
    as a peacock, and speaks with a Cockney accent which is simply
    terrible, came down the passage after me, and explained "on his own,"
    as he expressed it, that his master, "Mr. Ernest," was upset by the
    long journey, and that I was not to mind.  I did not wish to make him
    uncomfortable, so I explained that I minded nothing except what Your
    Honour wished; that the steam-yacht would be ready at 7 a.m.; and
    that I should be waiting in the hotel from that time on till Mr.
    Melton cared to start, to bring him aboard.

    In the morning I waited till the man Jenkinson came and told me that
    Mr. Ernest would start at ten.  I asked if he would breakfast on
    board; he answered that he would take his cafe-complet at the
    hotel, but breakfast on board.

    We left at ten, and took the electric pinnace out to the Trent,
    which lay, with steam up, in the roads.  Breakfast was served on
    board, by his orders, and presently he came up on the bridge, where I
    was in command.  He brought his man Jenkinson with him.  Seeing me
    there, and not (I suppose) understanding that I was in command, he
    unceremoniously ordered me to go on the deck.  Indeed, he named a
    place much lower.  I made a sign of silence to the quartermaster at
    the wheel, who had released the spokes, and was going, I feared, to
    make some impertinent remark.  Jenkinson joined me presently, and
    said, as some sort of explanation of his master's discourtesy (of
    which he was manifestly ashamed), if not as an amende:

    "The governor is in a hell of a wax this morning."

    When we got in sight of Meleda, Mr. Melton sent for me and asked me
    where we were to land.  I told him that, unless he wished to the
    contrary, we were to run to Vissarion; but that my instructions were
    to land at whatever port he wished.  Whereupon he told me that he
    wished to stay the night at some place where he might be able to see
    some "life."  He was pleased to add something, which I presume he
    thought jocular, about my being able to "coach" him in such matters,
    as doubtless even "an old has-been like you" had still some sort of
    an eye for a pretty girl.  I told him as respectfully as I could that
    I had no knowledge whatever on such subjects, which were possibly of
    some interest to younger men, but of none to me.  He said no more; so
    after waiting for further orders, but without receiving any, I said:

    "I suppose, sir, we shall run to Vissarion?"

    "Run to the devil, if you like!" was his reply, as he turned away.
    When we arrived in the creek at Vissarion, he seemed much
    milder--less aggressive in his manner; but when he heard that you
    were detained at Plazac, he got rather "fresh"--I use the American
    term--again.  I greatly feared there would be a serious misfortune
    before we got into the Castle, for on the dock was Julia, the wife of
    Michael, the Master of the Wine, who is, as you know, very beautiful.
    Mr. Melton seemed much taken with her; and she, being flattered by
    the attention of a strange gentleman and Your Honour's kinsman, put
    aside the stand-offishness of most of the Blue Mountain women.
    Whereupon Mr. Melton, forgetting himself, took her in his arms and
    kissed her.  Instantly there was a hubbub.  The mountaineers present
    drew their handjars, and almost on the instant sudden death appeared
    to be amongst us.  Happily the men waited as Michael, who had just
    arrived on the quay-wall as the outrage took place, ran forward,
    wheeling his handjar round his head, and manifestly intending to
    decapitate Mr. Melton.  On the instant--I am sorry to say it, for it
    created a terribly bad effect--Mr. Melton dropped on his knees in a
    state of panic.  There was just this good use in it--that there was a
    pause of a few seconds.  During that time the little Cockney valet,
    who has the heart of a man in him, literally burst his way forward,
    and stood in front of his master in boxing attitude, calling out:

    "'Ere, come on, the 'ole lot of ye! 'E ain't done no 'arm.  He honly
    kissed the gal, as any man would.  If ye want to cut off somebody's
    'ed, cut off mine.  I ain't afride!"  There was such genuine pluck in
    this, and it formed so fine a contrast to the other's craven attitude
    (forgive me, Your Honour; but you want the truth!), that I was glad
    he was an Englishman, too.  The mountaineers recognized his spirit,
    and saluted with their handjars, even Michael amongst the number.
    Half turning his head, the little man said in a fierce whisper:

    "Buck up, guv'nor!  Get up, or they'll slice ye!  'Ere's Mr. Rooke;
    'e'll see ye through it."

    By this time the men were amenable to reason, and when I reminded
    them that Mr. Melton was Your Honour's cousin, they put aside their
    handjars and went about their work.  I asked Mr. Melton to follow,
    and led the way to the Castle.

    When we got close to the great entrance within the walled courtyard,
    we found a large number of the servants gathered, and with them many
    of the mountaineers, who have kept an organized guard all round the
    Castle ever since the abducting of the Voivodin.  As both Your Honour
    and the Voivode were away at Plazac, the guard had for the time been
    doubled.  When the steward came and stood in the doorway, the
    servants stood off somewhat, and the mountaineers drew back to the
    farther sides and angles of the courtyard.  The Voivodin had, of
    course, been informed of the guest's (your cousin) coming, and came
    to meet him in the old custom of the Blue Mountains.  As Your Honour
    only came to the Blue Mountains recently, and as no occasion has been
    since then of illustrating the custom since the Voivode was away, and
    the Voivodin then believed to be dead, perhaps I, who have lived here
    so long, may explain:

    When to an old Blue Mountain house a guest comes whom it is wished to
    do honour, the Lady, as in the vernacular the mistress of the house
    is called, comes herself to meet the guest at the door--or, rather,
    outside the door--so that she can herself conduct him within.  It
    is a pretty ceremony, and it is said that of old in kingly days the
    monarch always set much store by it.  The custom is that, when she
    approaches the honoured guest (he need not be royal), she bends--or
    more properly kneels--before him and kisses his hand.  It has been
    explained by historians that the symbolism is that the woman, showing
    obedience to her husband, as the married woman of the Blue Mountains
    always does, emphasizes that obedience to her husband's guest.  The
    custom is always observed in its largest formality when a young wife
    receives for the first time a guest, and especially one whom her
    husband wishes to honour.  The Voivodin was, of course, aware that
    Mr. Melton was your kinsman, and naturally wished to make the
    ceremony of honour as marked as possible, so as to show overtly her
    sense of her husband's worth.

    When we came into the courtyard, I held back, of course, for the
    honour is entirely individual, and is never extended to any other, no
    matter how worthy he may be.  Naturally Mr. Melton did not know the
    etiquette of the situation, and so for that is not to be blamed.  He
    took his valet with him when, seeing someone coming to the door, he
    went forward.  I thought he was going to rush to his welcomer.  Such,
    though not in the ritual, would have been natural in a young kinsman
    wishing to do honour to the bride of his host, and would to anyone
    have been both understandable and forgivable.  It did not occur to me
    at the time, but I have since thought that perhaps he had not then
    heard of Your Honour's marriage, which I trust you will, in justice
    to the young gentleman, bear in mind when considering the matter.
    Unhappily, however, he did not show any such eagerness.  On the
    contrary, he seemed to make a point of showing indifference.  It
    seemed to me myself that he, seeing somebody wishing to make much of
    him, took what he considered a safe opportunity of restoring to
    himself his own good opinion, which must have been considerably
    lowered in the episode of the Wine Master's wife.

    The Voivodin, thinking, doubtless, Your Honour, to add a fresh lustre
    to her welcome, had donned the costume which all her nation has now
    come to love and to accept as a dress of ceremonial honour.  She wore
    her shroud.  It moved the hearts of all of us who looked on to see
    it, and we appreciated its being worn for such a cause.  But Mr.
    Melton did not seem to care.  As he had been approaching she had
    begun to kneel, and was already on her knees whilst he was several
    yards away.  There he stopped and turned to speak to his valet, put a
    glass in his eye, and looked all round him and up and down--indeed,
    everywhere except at the Great Lady, who was on her knees before him,
    waiting to bid him welcome.  I could see in the eyes of such of the
    mountaineers as were within my range of vision a growing animosity;
    so, hoping to keep down any such expression, which I knew would cause
    harm to Your Honour and the Voivodin, I looked all round them
    straight in their faces with a fixed frown, which, indeed, they
    seemed to understand, for they regained, and for the time maintained,
    their usual dignified calm.  The Voivodin, may I say, bore the trial
    wonderfully.  No human being could see that she was in any degree
    pained or even surprised.  Mr. Melton stood looking round him so long
    that I had full time to regain my own attitude of calm.  At last he
    seemed to come back to the knowledge that someone was waiting for
    him, and sauntered leisurely forward.  There was so much
    insolence--mind you, not insolence that was intended to appear as
    such--in his movement that the mountaineers began to steal forward.
    When he was close up to the Voivodin, and she put out her hand to
    take his, he put forward one finger!  I could hear the intake of
    the breath of the men, now close around, for I had moved forward,
    too.  I thought it would be as well to be close to your guest, lest
    something should happen to him.  The Voivodin still kept her splendid
    self-control.  Raising the finger put forward by the guest with the
    same deference as though it had been the hand of a King, she bent her
    head down and kissed it.  Her duty of courtesy now done, she was
    preparing to rise, when he put his hand into his pocket, and, pulling
    out a sovereign, offered it to her.  His valet moved his hand
    forward, as if to pull back his arm, but it was too late.  I am sure,
    Your Honour, that no affront was intended.  He doubtless thought that
    he was doing a kindness of the sort usual in England when one "tips"
    a housekeeper.  But all the same, to one in her position, it was an
    affront, an insult, open and unmistakable.  So it was received by the
    mountaineers, whose handjars flashed out as one.  For a second it was
    so received even by the Voivodin, who, with face flushing scarlet,
    and the stars in her eves flaming red, sprang to her feet.  But in
    that second she had regained herself, and to all appearances her
    righteous anger passed away.  Stooping, she took the hand of her
    guest and raised it--you know how strong she is--and, holding it in
    hers, led him into the doorway, saying:

    "You are welcome, kinsman of my husband, to the house of my father,
    which is presently my husband's also.  Both are grieved that, duty
    having called them away for the time, they are unable to be here to
    help me to greet you."

    I tell you, Your Honour, that it was a lesson in self-respect which
    anyone who saw it can never forget.  As to me, it makes my flesh
    quiver, old as I am, with delight, and my heart leap.

    May I, as a faithful servant who has had many years of experience,
    suggest that Your Honour should seem--for the present, at any
    rate--not to know any of these things which I have reported, as you
    wished me to do.  Be sure that the Voivodin will tell you her
    gracious self aught that she would wish you to know.  And such
    reticence on your part must make for her happiness, even if it did
    not for your own.

    So that you may know all, as you desired, and that you may have time
    to school yourself to whatever attitude you think best to adopt, I
    send this off to you at once by fleet messenger.  Were the aeroplane
    here, I should take it myself.  I leave here shortly to await the
    arrival of Sir Colin at Otranto.

                                           Your Honour's faithful servant,
                                                                    ROOKE.

JANET MACKELPIE'S NOTES.

                                                         August 9, 1907.

To me it seems very providential that Rupert was not at home when that dreadful young man Ernest
Melton arrived, though it is possible that if Rupert had been present he would not have dared
to conduct himself so badly.  Of course, I heard all about it from the maids; Teuta never opened
her lips to me on the subject.  It was bad enough and stupid enough for him to try to kiss
a decent young woman like Julia, who is really as good as gold and as modest as one of our
own Highland lassies; but to think of him insulting Teuta!  The little beast!  One would think
that a champion idiot out of an Equatorial asylum would know better!  If Michael, the Wine
Master, wanted to kill him, I wonder what my Rupert and hers would have done?  I am truly thankful
that he was not present.  And I am thankful, too, that I was not present either, for I should
have made an exhibition of myself, and Rupert would not have liked that.  He--the little beast!
might have seen from the very dress that the dear girl wore that there was something exceptional
about her.  But on one account I should have liked to see her.  They tell me that she was,
in her true dignity, like a Queen, and that her humility in receiving her husband's kinsman
was a lesson to every woman in the Land.  I must be careful not to let Rupert know that I have
heard of the incident.  Later on, when it is all blown over and the young man has been got
safely away, I shall tell him of it.  Mr. Rooke--Lord High Admiral Rooke, I should say--must
be a really wonderful man to have so held himself in check; for, from what I have heard of
him, he must in his younger days have been worse than Old Morgan of Panama.  Mr. Ernest Roger
Halbard Melton, of Humcroft, Salop, little knows how near he was to being "cleft to the chine"
also.

Fortunately, I had heard of his meeting with Teuta before he came to see me, for I did not
get back from my walk till after he had arrived. Teuta's noble example was before me, and I
determined that I, too, would show good manners under any circumstances.  But I didn't know
how mean he is.  Think of his saying to me that Rupert's position here must be a great source
of pride to me, who had been his nursery governess.  He said "nursemaid" first, but then stumbled
in his words, seeming to remember something.  I did not turn a hair, I am glad to say.  It
is a mercy Uncle Colin was not here, for I honestly believe that, if he had been, he would
have done the "cleaving to the chine" himself.  It has been a narrow escape for Master Ernest,
for only this morning Rupert had a message, sent on from Gibraltar, saying that he was arriving
with his clansmen, and that they would not be far behind his letter.  He would call at Otranto
in case someone should come across to pilot him to Vissarion. Uncle told me all about that
young cad having offered him one finger in Mr. Trent's office, though, of course, he didn't
let the cad see that he noticed it.  I have no doubt that, when he does arrive, that young
man, if he is here still, will find that he will have to behave himself, if it be only on Sir
Colin's account alone.

THE SAME (LATER).

I had hardly finished writing when the lookout on the tower announced that the Teuta, as Rupert
calls his aeroplane, was sighted crossing the mountains from Plazac.  I hurried up to see him
arrive, for I had not as yet seen him on his "aero."  Mr. Ernest Melton came up, too.  Teuta
was, of course, before any of us.  She seems to know by instinct when Rupert is coming.

It was certainly a wonderful sight to see the little aeroplane, with outspread wings like a
bird in flight, come sailing high over the mountains.  There was a head-wind, and they were
beating against it; otherwise we should not have had time to get to the tower before the arrival.

When once the "aero" had begun to drop on the near side of the mountains, however, and had
got a measure of shelter from them, her pace was extraordinary.  We could not tell, of course,
what sort of pace she came at from looking at herself.  But we gathered some idea from the
rate at which the mountains and hills seemed to slide away from under her.  When she got over
the foot-hills, which are about ten miles away, she came on at a swift glide that seemed to
throw the distance behind her.  When quite close, she rose up a little till she was something
higher than the Tower, to which she came as straight as an arrow from the bow, and glided to
her moorings, stopping dead as Rupert pulled a lever, which seemed to turn a barrier to the
wind.  The Voivode sat beside Rupert, but I must say that he seemed to hold on to the bar in
front of him even more firmly than Rupert held to his steering-gear.

When they had alighted, Rupert greeted his cousin with the utmost kindness, and bade him welcome
to Vissarion.

"I see," he said, "you have met Teuta.  Now you may congratulate me, if you wish."

Mr. Melton made a long rodomontade about her beauty, but presently, stumbling about in his
speech, said something regarding it being unlucky to appear in grave-clothes.  Rupert laughed,
and clapped him on the shoulder as he answered:

"That pattern of frock is likely to become a national dress for loyal women of the Blue Mountains.
When you know something of what that dress means to us all at present you will understand.
In the meantime, take it that there is not a soul in the nation that does not love it and honour
her for wearing it."  To which the cad replied:

"Oh, indeed!  I thought it was some preparation for a fancy-dress ball." Rupert's comment on
this ill-natured speech was (for him) quite grumpily given:

"I should not advise you to think such things whilst you are in this part of the world, Ernest.
They bury men here for much less."

The cad seemed struck with something--either what Rupert had said or his manner of saying it--for
he was silent for several seconds before he spoke.

"I'm very tired with that long journey, Rupert.  Would you and Mrs. Sent Leger mind if I go
to my own room and turn in?  My man can ask for a cup of tea and a sandwich for me."

RUPERT'S JOURNAL.

                                                        August 10, 1907.

When Ernest said he wished to retire it was about the wisest thing he could have said or done,
and it suited Teuta and me down to the ground. I could see that the dear girl was agitated
about something, so thought it would be best for her to be quiet, and not worried with being
civil to the Bounder.  Though he is my cousin, I can't think of him as anything else.  The
Voivode and I had certain matters to attend to arising out of the meeting of the Council, and
when we were through the night was closing in.  When I saw Teuta in our own rooms she said at once:

"Do you mind, dear, if I stay with Aunt Janet to-night?  She is very upset and nervous, and
when I offered to come to her she clung to me and cried with relief."

So when I had had some supper, which I took with the Voivode, I came down to my old quarters
in the Garden Room, and turned in early.

I was awakened a little before dawn by the coming of the fighting monk Theophrastos, a notable
runner, who had an urgent message for me.  This was the letter to me given to him by Rooke.
He had been cautioned to give it into no other hand, but to find me wherever I might be, and
convey it personally.  When he had arrived at Plazac I had left on the aeroplane, so he had
turned back to Vissarion.

When I read Rooke's report of Ernest Melton's abominable conduct I was more angry with him
than I can say.  Indeed, I did not think before that that I could be angry with him, for I
have always despised him.  But this was too much.  However, I realized the wisdom of Rooke's
advice, and went away by myself to get over my anger and reacquire my self-mastery.  The aeroplane
Teuta was still housed on the tower, so I went up alone and took it out.

When I had had a spin of about a hundred miles I felt better.  The bracing of the wind and
the quick, exhilarating motion restored me to myself, and I felt able to cope with Master Ernest,
or whatever else chagrinable might come along, without giving myself away.  As Teuta had thought
it better to keep silence as to Ernest's affront, I felt I must not acknowledge it; but, all
the same, I determined to get rid of him before the day was much older.

When I had had my breakfast I sent word to him by a servant that I was coming to his rooms,
and followed not long behind the messenger.

He was in a suit of silk pyjamas, such as not even Solomon in all his glory was arrayed in.
I closed the door behind me before I began to speak.  He listened, at first amazed, then disconcerted,
then angry, and then cowering down like a whipped hound.  I felt that it was a case for speaking
out.  A bumptious ass like him, who deliberately insulted everyone he came across--for if all
or any of his efforts in that way were due to mere elemental ignorance he was not fit to live,
but should be silenced on sight as a modern Caliban--deserved neither pity nor mercy.  To extend
to him fine feeling, tolerance, and such-like gentlenesses would be to deprive the world of
them without benefit to any.  So well as I can remember, what I said was something like this:

"Ernest, as you say, you've got to go, and to go quick, you understand. I dare say you look
on this as a land of barbarians, and think that any of your high-toned refinements are thrown
away on people here.  Well, perhaps it is so.  Undoubtedly, the structure of the country is
rough; the mountains may only represent the glacial epoch; but so far as I can gather from
some of your exploits--for I have only learned a small part as yet--you represent a period
a good deal farther back.  You seem to have given our folk here an exhibition of the playfulness
of the hooligan of the Saurian stage of development; but the Blue Mountains, rough as they
are, have come up out of the primeval slime, and even now the people aim at better manners.
They may be rough, primitive, barbarian, elemental, if you will, but they are not low down
enough to tolerate either your ethics or your taste.  My dear cousin, your life is not safe
here!  I am told that yesterday, only for the restraint exercised by certain offended mountaineers
on other grounds than your own worth, you would have been abbreviated by the head.  Another
day of your fascinating presence would do away with this restraint, and then we should have
a scandal.  I am a new-comer here myself--too new a comer to be able to afford a scandal of
that kind--and so I shall not delay your going. Believe me, my dear cousin, Ernest Roger Halbard
Melton, of Humcroft, Salop, that I am inconsolable about your resolution of immediate departure,
but I cannot shut my eyes to its wisdom.  At present the matter is altogether amongst ourselves,
and when you have gone--if it be immediately--silence will be observed on all hands for the
sake of the house wherein you are a guest; but if there be time for scandal to spread, you
will be made, whether you be alive or dead, a European laughing-stock.  Accordingly, I have
anticipated your wishes, and have ordered a fast steam yacht to take you to Ancona, or to whatever
other port you may desire.  The yacht will be under the command of Captain Desmond, of one
of our battleships--a most determined officer, who will carry out any directions which may
be given to him.  This will insure your safety so far as Italian territory.  Some of his officials
will arrange a special carriage for you up to Flushing, and a cabin on the steamer to Queenboro'.
A man of mine will travel on the train and steamer with you, and will see that whatever you
may wish in the way of food or comfort will be provided.  Of course, you understand, my dear
cousin, that you are my guest until you arrive in London.  I have not asked Rooke to accompany
you, as when he went to meet you, it was a mistake.  Indeed, there might have been a danger
to you which I never contemplated--a quite unnecessary danger, I assure you.  But happily Admiral
Rooke, though a man of strong passions, has wonderful self-control."

"Admiral Rooke?" he queried.  "Admiral?"

"Admiral, certainly," I replied, "but not an ordinary Admiral--one of many.  He is the Admiral--the
Lord High Admiral of the Land of the Blue Mountains, with sole control of its expanding navy.
When such a man is treated as a valet, there may be . . . But why go into this?  It is all
over.  I only mention it lest anything of a similar kind should occur with Captain Desmond,
who is a younger man, and therefore with probably less self-repression."

I saw that he had learned his lesson, and so said no more on the subject.

There was another reason for his going which I did not speak of.  Sir Colin MacKelpie was coming
with his clansmen, and I knew he did not like Ernest Melton.  I well remembered that episode
of his offering one finger to the old gentleman in Mr. Trent's office, and, moreover, I had
my suspicions that Aunt Janet's being upset was probably in some measure due to some rudeness
of his that she did not wish to speak about.  He is really an impossible young man, and is
far better out of this country than in it.  If he remained here, there would be some sort of
a tragedy for certain.

I must say that it was with a feeling of considerable relief that I saw the yacht steam out
of the creek, with Captain Desmond on the bridge and my cousin beside him.

Quite other were my feelings when, an hour after, The Lady came flying into the creek with
the Lord High Admiral on the bridge, and beside him, more splendid and soldier-like than ever,
Sir Colin MacKelpie.  Mr. Bingham Trent was also on the bridge.

The General was full of enthusiasm regarding his regiment, for in all, those he brought with
him and those finishing their training at home, the force is near the number of a full regiment.
When we were alone he explained to me that all was arranged regarding the non-commissioned
officers, but that he had held over the question of officers until we should have had a suitable
opportunity of talking the matter over together.  He explained to me his reasons, which were
certainly simple and cogent.  Officers, according to him, are a different class, and accustomed
to a different standard altogether of life and living, of duties and pleasures.  They are harder
to deal with and more difficult to obtain.  "There was no use," he said, "in getting a lot
of failures, with old-crusted ways of their own importance.  We must have young men for our
purpose--that is, men not old, but with some experience--men, of course, who know how to behave
themselves, or else, from what little I have seen of the Blue Mountaineers, they wouldn't last
long here if they went on as some of them do elsewhere.  I shall start things here as you wish
me to, for I am here, my dear boy, to stay with you and Janet, and we shall, if it be given
to us by the Almighty, help to build up together a new 'nation'--an ally of Britain, who will
stand at least as an outpost of our own nation, and a guardian of our eastern road.  When things
are organized here on the military side, and are going strong, I shall, if you can spare me,
run back to London for a few weeks.  Whilst I am there I shall pick up a lot of the sort of
officers we want.  I know that there are loads of them to be had.  I shall go slowly, however,
and carefully, too, and every man I bring back will be recommended to me by some old soldier
whom I know, and who knows the man he recommends, and has seen him work.  We shall have, I
dare say, an army for its size second to none in the world, and the day may come when your
old country will be proud of your new one.  Now I'm off to see that all is ready for my people--your
people now."

I had had arrangements made for the comfort of the clansmen and the women, but I knew that
the good old soldier would see for himself that his men were to be comfortable.  It was not
for nothing that he was--is--looked on as perhaps the General most beloved by his men in the
whole British Army.

When he had gone, and I was alone, Mr. Trent, who had evidently been waiting for the opportunity,
came to me.  When we had spoken of my marriage and of Teuta, who seems to have made an immense
impression on him, he said suddenly:

"I suppose we are quite alone, and that we shall not be interrupted?"  I summoned the man outside--there
is always a sentry on guard outside my door or near me, wherever I may be--and gave orders
that I was not to be disturbed until I gave fresh orders.  "If," I said, "there be anything
pressing or important, let the Voivodin or Miss MacKelpie know.  If either of them brings anyone
to me, it will be all right."

When we were quite alone Mr. Trent took a slip of paper and some documents from the bag which
was beside him.  He then read out items from the slip, placing as he did so the documents so
checked over before him.

1.  New Will made on marriage, to be signed presently.

2.  Copy of the Re-conveyance of Vissarion estates to Peter Vissarion, as directed by Will
of Roger Melton.

3.  Report of Correspondence with Privy Council, and proceedings following.

Taking up the last named, he untied the red tape, and, holding the bundle in his hand, went on:

"As you may, later on, wish to examine the details of the Proceedings, I have copied out the
various letters, the originals of which are put safely away in my strong-room where, of course,
they are always available in case you may want them.  For your present information I shall
give you a rough synopsis of the Proceedings, referring where advisable to this paper.

"On receipt of your letter of instructions regarding the Consent of the Privy Council to your
changing your nationality in accordance with the terms of Roger Melton's Will, I put myself
in communication with the Clerk of the Privy Council, informing him of your wish to be naturalized
in due time to the Land of the Blue Mountains.  After some letters between us, I got a summons
to attend a meeting of the Council.

"I attended, as required, taking with me all necessary documents, and such as I conceived might
be advisable to produce, if wanted.

"The Lord President informed me that the present meeting of the Council was specially summoned
in obedience to the suggestion of the King, who had been consulted as to his personal wishes
on the subject--should he have any.  The President then proceeded to inform me officially that
all Proceedings of the Privy Council were altogether confidential, and were not to be made
public under any circumstances.  He was gracious enough to add:

"'The circumstances of this case, however, are unique; and as you act for another, we have
thought it advisable to enlarge your permission in the matter, so as to allow you to communicate
freely with your principal.  As that gentleman is settling himself in a part of the world which
has been in the past, and may be again, united to this nation by some common interest, His
Majesty wishes Mr. Sent Leger to feel assured of the good-will of Great Britain to the Land
of the Blue Mountains, and even of his own personal satisfaction that a gentleman of so distinguished
a lineage and such approved personal character is about to be--within his own scope--a connecting-link
between the nations.  To which end he has graciously announced that, should the Privy Council
acquiesce in the request of Denaturalization, he will himself sign the Patent therefor.

"'The Privy Council has therefore held private session, at which the matter has been discussed
in its many bearings; and it is content that the change can do no harm, but may be of some
service to the two nations. We have, therefore, agreed to grant the prayer of the Applicant;
and the officials of the Council have the matter of the form of Grant in hand. So you, sir,
may rest satisfied that as soon as the formalities--which will, of course, require the formal
signing of certain documents by the Applicant--can be complied with, the Grant and Patent will
obtain.'"

Having made this statement in formal style, my old friend went on in more familiar way:

"And so, my dear Rupert, all is in hand; and before very long you will have the freedom required
under the Will, and will be at liberty to take whatever steps may be necessary to be naturalized
in your new country.

"I may tell you, by the way, that several members of the Council made very complimentary remarks
regarding you.  I am forbidden to give names, but I may tell you facts.  One old Field-Marshal,
whose name is familiar to the whole world, said that he had served in many places with your
father, who was a very valiant soldier, and that he was glad that Great Britain was to have
in the future the benefit of your father's son in a friendly land now beyond the outposts of
our Empire, but which had been one with her in the past, and might be again.

"So much for the Privy Council.  We can do no more at present until you sign and have attested
the documents which I have brought with me.

"We can now formally complete the settlement of the Vissarion estates, which must be done whilst
you are a British citizen.  So, too, with the Will, the more formal and complete document,
which is to take the place of that short one which you forwarded to me the day after your marriage.
It may be, perhaps, necessary or advisable that, later on, when you are naturalized here, you
shall make a new Will in strictest accordance with local law."

TEUTA SENT LEGER'S DIARY.

                                                        August 19, 1907.

We had a journey to-day that was simply glorious.  We had been waiting to take it for more
than a week.  Rupert not only wanted the weather suitable, but he had to wait till the new
aeroplane came home.  It is more than twice as big as our biggest up to now.  None of the others
could take all the party which Rupert wanted to go.  When he heard that the aero was coming
from Whitby, where it was sent from Leeds, he directed by cable that it should be unshipped
at Otranto, whence he took it here all by himself.  I wanted to come with him, but he thought
it better not.  He says that Brindisi is too busy a place to keep anything quiet--if not secret--and
he wants to be very dark indeed about this, as it is worked by the new radium engine.  Ever
since they found radium in our own hills he has been obsessed by the idea of an aerial navy
for our protection.  And after to-day's experiences I think he is right.  As he wanted to survey
the whole country at a glimpse, so that the general scheme of defence might be put in hand,
we had to have an aero big enough to take the party as well as fast enough to do it rapidly,
and all at once.  We had, in addition to Rupert, my father, and myself, Sir Colin and Lord
High Admiral Rooke (I do like to give that splendid old fellow his full title!).  The military
and naval experts had with them scientific apparatus of various kinds, also cameras and range-finders,
so that they could mark their maps as they required.  Rupert, of course, drove, and I acted
as his assistant.  Father, who has not yet become accustomed to aerial travel, took a seat
in the centre (which Rupert had thoughtfully prepared for him), where there is very little
motion.  I must say I was amazed to see the way that splendid old soldier Sir Colin bore himself.
He had never been on an aeroplane before, but, all the same, he was as calm as if he was on
a rock.  Height or motion did not trouble him.  Indeed, he seemed to enjoy himself all the
time.  The Admiral is himself almost an expert, but in any case I am sure he would have been
unconcerned, just as he was in the Crab as Rupert has told me.

We left just after daylight, and ran down south.  When we got to the east of Ilsin, we kept
slightly within the border-line, and went north or east as it ran, making occasional loops
inland over the mountains and back again.  When we got up to our farthest point north, we began
to go much slower.  Sir Colin explained that for the rest all would be comparatively plain-sailing
in the way of defence; but that as any foreign Power other than the Turk must attack from seaward,
he would like to examine the seaboard very carefully in conjunction with the Admiral, whose
advice as to sea defence would be invaluable.

Rupert was fine.  No one could help admiring him as he sat working his lever and making the
great machine obey every touch.  He was wrapped up in his work.  I don't believe that whilst
he was working he ever thought of even me.  He is splendid!

We got back just as the sun was dropping down over the Calabrian Mountains.  It is quite wonderful
how the horizon changes when you are sailing away up high on an aeroplane.  Rupert is going
to teach me how to manage one all by myself, and when I am fit he will give me one, which he
is to have specially built for me.

I think I, too, have done some good work--at least, I have got some good ideas--from our journey
to-day.  Mine are not of war, but of peace, and I think I see a way by which we shall be able
to develop our country in a wonderful way.  I shall talk the idea over with Rupert to-night,
when we are alone.  In the meantime Sir Colin and Admiral Rooke will think their plans over
individually, and to-morrow morning together.  Then the next day they, too, are to go over
their idea with Rupert and my father, and something may be decided then.

RUPERT'S JOURNAL--Continued.

                                                        August 21, 1907.

Our meeting on the subject of National Defence, held this afternoon, went off well.  We were
five in all, for with permission of the Voivode and the two fighting-men, naval and military,
I brought Teuta with me.  She sat beside me quite quietly, and never made a remark of any kind
till the Defence business had been gone through.  Both Sir Colin and Admiral Rooke were in
perfect agreement as to the immediate steps to be taken for defence.  In the first instance,
the seaboard was to be properly fortified in the necessary places, and the navy largely strengthened.
When we had got thus far I asked Rooke to tell of the navy increase already in hand.  Whereupon
he explained that, as we had found the small battleship The Lady of an excellent type for coast
defence, acting only in home waters, and of a size to take cover where necessary at many places
on our own shores, we had ordered nine others of the same pattern. Of these the first four
were already in hand, and were proceeding with the greatest expedition.  The General then supplemented
this by saying that big guns could be used from points judiciously chosen on the seaboard,
which was in all so short a length that no very great quantity of armament would be required.

"We can have," he said, "the biggest guns of the most perfect kind yet accomplished, and use
them from land batteries of the most up-to-date pattern.  The one serious proposition we have
to deal with is the defence of the harbour--as yet quite undeveloped--which is known as the
'Blue Mouth.'  Since our aerial journey I have been to it by sea with Admiral Rooke in The
Lady, and then on land with the Vladika, who was born on its shores, and who knows every inch
of it.

"It is worth fortifying--and fortifying well, for as a port it is peerless in Mediterranean
seas.  The navies of the world might ride in it, land-locked, and even hidden from view seawards.
The mountains which enclose it are in themselves absolute protection.  In addition, these can
only be assailed from our own territory.  Of course, Voivode, you understand when I say 'our'
I mean the Land of the Blue Mountains, for whose safety and well-being I am alone concerned.
Any ship anchoring in the roads of the Blue Mouth would have only one need--sufficient length
of cable for its magnificent depth.

"When proper guns are properly placed on the steep cliffs to north and south of the entrance,
and when the rock islet between has been armoured and armed as will be necessary, the Mouth
will be impregnable.  But we should not depend on the aiming of the entrance alone.  At certain
salient points--which I have marked upon this map--armour-plated sunken forts within earthworks
should be established.  There should be covering forts on the hillsides, and, of course, the
final summits protected. Thus we could resist attack on any side or all sides--from sea or
land. That port will yet mean the wealth as well as the strength of this nation, so it will
be well to have it properly protected.  This should be done soon, and the utmost secrecy observed
in the doing of it, lest the so doing should become a matter of international concern."

Here Rooke smote the table hard.

"By God, that is true!  It has been the dream of my own life for this many a year."

In the silence which followed the sweet, gentle voice of Teuta came clear as a bell:

"May I say a word?  I am emboldened to, as Sir Colin has spoken so splendidly, and as the Lord
High Admiral has not hesitated to mention his dreaming.  I, too, have had a dream--a day-dream--which
came in a flash, but no less a dream, for all that.  It was when we hung on the aeroplane over
the Blue Mouth.  It seemed to me in an instant that I saw that beautiful spot as it will some
time be--typical, as Sir Colin said, of the wealth as well as the strength of this nation;
a mart for the world whence will come for barter some of the great wealth of the Blue Mountains.
That wealth is as yet undeveloped.  But the day is at hand when we may begin to use it, and
through that very port.  Our mountains and their valleys are clad with trees of splendid growth,
virgin forests of priceless worth; hard woods of all kinds, which have no superior throughout
the world.  In the rocks, though hidden as yet, is vast mineral wealth of many kinds.  I have
been looking through the reports of the geological exports of the Commission of Investigation
which my husband organized soon after he came to live here, and, according to them, our whole
mountain ranges simply teem with vast quantities of minerals, almost more precious for industry
than gold and silver are for commerce--though, indeed, gold is not altogether lacking as a
mineral. When once our work on the harbour is done, and the place has been made secure against
any attempt at foreign aggression, we must try to find a way to bring this wealth of woods
and ores down to the sea.

"And then, perhaps, may begin the great prosperity of our Land, of which we have all dreamt."

She stopped, all vibrating, almost choked with emotion.  We were all moved.  For myself, I
was thrilled to the core.  Her enthusiasm was all-sweeping, and under its influence I found
my own imagination expanding.  Out of its experiences I spoke:

"And there is a way.  I can see it.  Whilst our dear Voivodin was speaking, the way seemed
to clear.  I saw at the back of the Blue Mouth, where it goes deepest into the heart of the
cliffs, the opening of a great tunnel, which ran upward over a steep slope till it debouched
on the first plateau beyond the range of the encompassing cliffs.  Thither came by various
rails of steep gradient, by timber-shoots and cable-rails, by aerial cables and precipitating
tubes, wealth from over ground and under it; for as our Land is all mountains, and as these
tower up to the clouds, transport to the sea shall be easy and of little cost when once the
machinery is established.  As everything of much weight goes downward, the cars of the main
tunnel of the port shall return upward without cost.  We can have from the mountains a head
of water under good control, which will allow of endless hydraulic power, so that the whole
port and the mechanism of the town to which it will grow can be worked by it.

"This work can be put in hand at once.  So soon as the place shall be perfectly surveyed and
the engineering plans got ready, we can start on the main tunnel, working from the sea-level
up, so that the cost of the transport of material will be almost nil.  This work can go on
whilst the forts are building; no time need be lost.

"Moreover, may I add a word on National Defence?  We are, though old in honour, a young nation
as to our place amongst Great Powers.  And so we must show the courage and energy of a young
nation.  The Empire of the Air is not yet won.  Why should not we make a bid for it?  As our
mountains are lofty, so shall we have initial power of attack or defence. We can have, in chosen
spots amongst the clouds, depots of war aeroplanes, with which we can descend and smite our
enemies quickly on land or sea.  We shall hope to live for Peace; but woe to those who drive
us to War!"

There is no doubt that the Vissarions are a warlike race.  As I spoke, Teuta took one of my
hands and held it hard.  The old Voivode, his eyes blazing, rose and stood beside me and took
the other.  The two old fighting-men of the land and the sea stood up and saluted.

This was the beginning of what ultimately became "The National Committee of Defence and Development."

I had other, and perhaps greater, plans for the future in my mind; but the time had not come
for their utterance.

To me it seems not only advisable, but necessary, that the utmost discretion be observed by
all our little group, at all events for the present.  There seems to be some new uneasiness
in the Blue Mountains. There are constant meetings of members of the Council, but no formal
meeting of the Council, as such, since the last one at which I was present.  There is constant
coming and going amongst the mountaineers, always in groups, small or large.  Teuta and I,
who have been about very much on the aeroplane, have both noticed it.  But somehow we--that
is, the Voivode and myself--are left out of everything; but we have not said as yet a word
on the subject to any of the others.  The Voivode notices, but he says nothing; so I am silent,
and Teuta does whatever I ask.  Sir Colin does not notice anything except the work he is engaged
on--the planning the defences of the Blue Mouth.  His old scientific training as an engineer,
and his enormous experience of wars and sieges--for he was for nearly fifty years sent as military
representative to all the great wars--seem to have become directed on that point.  He is certainly
planning it all out in a wonderful way.  He consults Rooke almost hourly on the maritime side
of the question.  The Lord High Admiral has been a watcher all his life, and very few important
points have ever escaped him, so that he can add greatly to the wisdom of the defensive construction.
He notices, I think, that something is going on outside ourselves; but he keeps a resolute silence.

What the movement going on is I cannot guess.  It is not like the uneasiness that went before
the abduction of Teuta and the Voivode, but it is even more pronounced.  That was an uneasiness
founded on some suspicion.  This is a positive thing, and has definite meaning--of some sort.
We shall, I suppose, know all about it in good time.  In the meantime we go on with our work.
Happily the whole Blue Mouth and the mountains round it are on my own property, the portion
acquired long ago by Uncle Roger, exclusive of the Vissarion estate.  I asked the Voivode to
allow me to transfer it to him, but he sternly refused and forbade me, quite peremptorily,
to ever open the subject to him again.  "You have done enough already," he said.  "Were I to
allow you to go further, I should feel mean.  And I do not think you would like your wife's
father to suffer that feeling after a long life, which he has tried to live in honour."

I bowed, and said no more.  So there the matter rests, and I have to take my own course.  I
have had a survey made, and on the head of it the Tunnel to the harbour is begun.

BOOK VIII: THE FLASHING OF THE HANDJAR

PRIVATE MEMORANDUM OF THE MEETING OF VARIOUS MEMBERS OF THE NATIONAL COUNCIL, HELD AT THE STATE
HOUSE OF THE BLUE MOUNTAINS AT PLAZAC ON MONDAY, AUGUST 26, 1907.

(Written by Cristoferos, Scribe of the Council, by instruction of those present.)

When the private meeting of various Members of the National Council had assembled in the Council
Hall of the State House at Plazac, it was as a preliminary decided unanimously that now or
hereafter no names of those present were to be mentioned, and that officials appointed for
the purposes of this meeting should be designated by office only, the names of all being withheld.

The proceedings assumed the shape of a general conversation, quite informal, and therefore
not to be recorded.  The nett outcome was the unanimous expression of an opinion that the time,
long contemplated by very many persons throughout the nation, had now come when the Constitution
and machinery of the State should be changed; that the present form of ruling by an Irregular
Council was not sufficient, and that a method more in accord with the spirit of the times should
be adopted.  To this end Constitutional Monarchy, such as that holding in Great Britain, seemed
best adapted.  Finally, it was decided that each Member of the Council should make a personal
canvass of his district, talk over the matter with his electors, and bring back to another
meeting--or, rather, as it was amended, to this meeting postponed for a week, until September
2nd--the opinions and wishes received.  Before separating, the individual to be appointed King,
in case the new idea should prove grateful to the nation, was discussed.  The consensus of
opinion was entirely to the effect that the Voivode Peter Vissarion should, if he would accept
the high office, be appointed.  It was urged that, as his daughter, the Voivodin Teuta, was
now married to the Englishman, Rupert Sent Leger--called generally by the mountaineers "the
Gospodar Rupert"--a successor to follow the Voivode when God should call him would be at hand--a
successor worthy in every way to succeed to so illustrious a post.  It was urged by several
speakers, with general acquiescence, that already Mr. Sent Leger's services to the State were
such that he would be in himself a worthy person to begin the new Dynasty; but that, as he
was now allied to the Voivode Peter Vissarion, it was becoming that the elder, born of the
nation, should receive the first honour.

THE SAME--Continued.

The adjourned meeting of certain members of the National Council was resumed in the Hall of
the State House at Plazac on Monday, September 2nd, 1907.  By motion the same chairman was
appointed, and the rule regarding the record renewed.

Reports were made by the various members of the Council in turn, according to the State Roll.
Every district was represented.  The reports were unanimously in favour of the New Constitution,
and it was reported by each and all of the Councillors that the utmost enthusiasm marked in
every case the suggestion of the Voivode Peter Vissarion as the first King to be crowned under
the new Constitution, and that remainder should be settled on the Gospodar Rupert (the mountaineers
would only receive his lawful name as an alternative; one and all said that he would be "Rupert"
to them and to the nation--for ever).

The above matter having been satisfactorily settled, it was decided that a formal meeting of
the National Council should be held at the State House, Plazac, in one week from to-day, and
that the Voivode Peter Vissarion should be asked to be in the State House in readiness to attend.
It was also decided that instruction should be given to the High Court of National Law to prepare
and have ready, in skeleton form, a rescript of the New Constitution to be adopted, the same
to be founded on the Constitution and Procedure of Great Britain, so far as the same may be
applicable to the traditional ideas of free Government in the Land of the Blue Mountains.

By unanimous vote this private and irregular meeting of "Various National Councillors" was
then dissolved.

RECORD OF THE FIRST MEETING OF THE NATIONAL COUNCIL OF THE LAND OF THE BLUE MOUNTAINS, HELD
AT PLAZAC ON MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 9TH, 1907, TO CONSIDER THE ADOPTION OF A NEW CONSTITUTION, AND
TO GIVE PERMANENT EFFECT TO THE SAME IF, AND WHEN, DECIDED UPON.

(Kept by the Monk Cristoferos, Scribe to the National Council.)

The adjourned meeting duly took place as arranged.  There was a full attendance of Members
of the Council, together with the Vladika, the Archbishop, the Archimandrites of Spazac, of
Ispazar, of Domitan, and Astrag; the Chancellor; the Lord of the Exchequer; the President of
the High Court of National Law; the President of the Council of Justice; and such other high
officials as it is customary to summon to meetings of the National Council on occasions of
great importance.  The names of all present will be found in the full report, wherein are given
the ipsissima verba of the various utterances made during the consideration of the questions
discussed, the same having been taken down in shorthand by the humble scribe of this precis,
which has been made for the convenience of Members of the Council and others.

The Voivode Peter Vissarion, obedient to the request of the Council, was in attendance at the
State House, waiting in the "Chamber of the High Officers" until such time as he should be
asked to come before the Council.

The President put before the National Council the matter of the new Constitution, outlining
the headings of it as drawn up by the High Court of National Law, and the Constitution having
been formally accepted nem. con. by the National Council on behalf of the people, he proposed
that the Crown should be offered to the Voivode Peter Vissarion, with remainder to the "Gospodar
Rupert" (legally, Rupert Sent Leger), husband of his only child, the Voivodin Teuta.  This
also was received with enthusiasm, and passed nem. con.

Thereupon the President of Council, the Archbishop, and the Vladika, acting together as a deputation,
went to pray the attention of the Voivode Peter Vassarion.

When the Voivode entered, the whole Council and officials stood up, and for a few seconds waited
in respectful silence with heads bowed down. Then, as if by a common impulse--for no word was
spoken nor any signal given--they all drew their handjars, and stood to attention--with points
raised and edges of the handjars to the front.

The Voivode stood very still.  He seemed much moved, but controlled himself admirably.  The
only time when be seemed to lose his self-control was when, once again with a strange simultaneity,
all present raised their handjars on high, and shouted: "Hail, Peter, King!"  Then lowering
their points till these almost touched the ground, they once again stood with bowed heads.

When he had quite mastered himself, the Voivode Peter Vissarion spoke:

"How can I, my brothers, sufficiently thank you, and, through you, the people of the Blue Mountains,
for the honour done to me this day?  In very truth it is not possible, and therefore I pray
you to consider it as done, measuring my gratitude in the greatness of your own hearts.  Such
honour as you offer to me is not contemplated by any man in whose mind a wholesome sanity rules,
nor is it even the dream of fervent imagination. So great is it, that I pray you, men with
hearts and minds like my own, to extend to me, as a further measure of your generosity, a little
time to think it over.  I shall not want long, for even already, with the blaze of honour fresh
upon me, I see the cool shadow of Duty, though his substance is yet hardly visible.  Give me
but an hour of solitude--an hour at most--if it do not prolong this your session unduly.  It
may be that a lesser time will serve, but in any case I promise you that, when I can see a
just and fitting issue to my thought, I shall at once return."

The President of the Council looked around him, and, seeing everywhere the bowing heads of
acquiescence, spoke with a reverent gravity:

"We shall wait in patience whatsoever time you will, and may the God who rules all worthy hearts
guide you to His Will!"

And so in silence the Voivode passed out of the hall.

From my seat near a window I could watch him go, as with measured steps he passed up the hill
which rises behind the State House, and disappeared into the shadow of the forest.  Then my
work claimed me, for I wished to record the proceedings so far whilst all was fresh in my mind.
In silence, as of the dead, the Council waited, no man challenging opinion of his neighbour
even by a glance.

Almost a full hour had elapsed when the Voivode came again to the Council, moving with slow
and stately gravity, as has always been his wont since age began to hamper the movement which
in youth had been so notable.  The Members of the Council all stood up uncovered, and so remained
while he made announcement of his conclusion.  He spoke slowly; and as his answer was to be
a valued record of this Land and its Race, I wrote down every word as uttered, leaving here
and there space for description or comment, which spaces I have since then filled in.

"Lords of the National Council, Archbishop, Vladika, Lords of the Council of Justice and of
National Law, Archimandrites, and my brothers all, I have, since I left you, held in the solitude
of the forest counsel with myself--and with God; and He, in His gracious wisdom, has led my
thinking to that conclusion which was from the first moment of knowledge of your intent presaged
in my heart.  Brothers, you know--or else a long life has been spent in vain--that my heart
and mind are all for the nation--my experience, my life, my handjar.  And when all is for her,
why should I shrink to exercise on her behalf my riper judgment though the same should have
to combat my own ambition?  For ten centuries my race has not failed in its duty.  Ages ago
the men of that time trusted in the hands of my ancestors the Kingship, even as now you, their
children, trust me.  But to me it would be base to betray that trust, even by the smallest
tittle. That would I do were I to take the honour of the crown which you have tendered to me,
so long as there is another more worthy to wear it.  Were there none other, I should place
myself in your hands, and yield myself over to blind obedience of your desires.  But such an
one there is; dear to you already by his own deeds, now doubly dear to me, since he is my son
by my daughter's love.  He is young, whereas I am old.  He is strong and brave and true; but
my days of the usefulness of strength and bravery are over.  For myself, I have long contemplated
as the crown of my later years a quiet life in one of our monasteries, where I can still watch
the whirl of the world around us on your behalf, and be a counsellor of younger men of more
active minds.  Brothers, we are entering on stirring times.  I can see the signs of their coming
all around us.  North and South--the Old Order and the New, are about to clash, and we lie
between the opposing forces.  True it is that the Turk, after warring for a thousand years,
is fading into insignificance.  But from the North where conquests spring, have crept towards
our Balkans the men of a mightier composite Power.  Their march has been steady; and as they
came, they fortified every step of the way.  Now they are hard upon us, and are already beginning
to swallow up the regions that we have helped to win from the dominion of Mahound.  The Austrian
is at our very gates.  Beaten back by the Irredentists of Italy, she has so enmeshed herself
with the Great Powers of Europe that she seems for the moment to be impregnable to a foe of
our stature.  There is but one hope for us--the uniting of the Balkan forces to turn a masterly
front to North and West as well as to South and East.  Is that a task for old hands to undertake?
No; the hands must be young and supple; and the brain subtle, as well as the heart be strong,
of whomsoever would dare such an accomplishment.  Should I accept the crown, it would only
postpone the doing of that which must ultimately be done.  What avail would it be if, when
the darkness closes over me, my daughter should be Queen Consort to the first King of a new
dynasty?  You know this man, and from your record I learn that you are already willing to have
him as King to follow me.  Why not begin with him?  He comes of a great nation, wherein the
principle of freedom is a vital principle that quickens all things.  That nation has more than
once shown to us its friendliness; and doubtless the very fact that an Englishman would become
our King, and could carry into our Government the spirit and customs which have made his own
country great, would do much to restore the old friendship, and even to create a new one, which
would in times of trouble bring British fleets to our waters, and British bayonets to support
our own handjars.  It is within my own knowledge, though as yet unannounced to you, that Rupert
Sent Leger has already obtained a patent, signed by the King of England himself, allowing him
to be denaturalized in England, so that he can at once apply for naturalization here.  I know
also that he has brought hither a vast fortune, by aid of which he is beginning to strengthen
our hands for war, in case that sad eventuality should arise.  Witness his late ordering to
be built nine other warships of the class that has already done such effective service in overthrowing
the Turk--or the pirate, whichever he may have been.  He has undertaken the defence of the
Blue Mouth at his own cost in a way which will make it stronger than Gibraltar, and secure
us against whatever use to which the Austrian may apply the vast forces already gathered in
the Bocche di Cattaro.  He is already founding aerial stations on our highest peaks for use
of the war aeroplanes which are being built for him.