We saw the three companies of Engineers moving off, each followed by those mysterious pontoons
which followed them wherever they went and suggested the bridging of the Rhine and our advance
to Berlin. Someone called out, "What are those boats?" and a voice replied, "That's the Canadian
Navy." We had a pleasant trip in the train to Quebec, enlivened by jokes and songs. On our
arrival at the docks, we were taken to the custom-house wharf and marched on board the fine
(p. 024) Cunard liner "Andania", which now rests, her troubles over, at the bottom of the Irish
Sea. On the vessel, besides half of the 14th Battalion, there was the 16th (Canadian Scottish)
Battalion, chiefly from Vancouver, and the Signal Company. Thus we had a ship full to overflowing
of some of the noblest young fellows to whom the world has given birth. So ended our war experience
in Valcartier Camp.

Nearly five years passed before I saw that sacred spot again. It was in August 1919. The war
was ended, peace had been signed, and the great force of brother knights had been dispersed.
Little crosses by the highways and byways of France and Belgium now marked the resting-place
of thousands of those whose eager hearts took flame among these autumn hills. As I motored
past the deserted camp after sunset, my heart thrilled with strange memories and the sense
of an abiding presence of something weird and ghostly. Here were the old roads, there were
the vacant hutments. Here were the worn paths across the fields where the men had gone. The
evening breeze whispered fitfully across the untrodden grass and one by one the strong mountains,
as though fixing themselves more firmly in iron resolve, cast off the radiant hues of evening
and stood out black and grim against the starlit sky.

CHAPTER II.                                                        (p. 025)

THE VOYAGE TO ENGLAND.

September 29th to October 18th, 1914.

The "Andania" moved out to mid-stream and anchored off Cape Diamond. The harbour was full of
liners, crowded with men in khaki. It was a great sensation to feel oneself at last merged
into the great army life and no longer free to come and go. I looked at the City and saw the
familiar outline of the Terrace and Château Frontenac and, over all, the Citadel, one of my
favourite haunts in times past. A great gulf separated us now from the life we had known. We
began to realize that the individual was submerged in the great flood of corporate life, and
the words of the text came to me, "He that loseth his life for My sake shall find it."

The evening was spent in settling down to our new quarters in what was, especially after the
camp at Valcartier, a luxurious home. Dinner at night became the regimental mess, and the saloon
with its sumptuous furnishings made a fine setting for the nightly gathering of officers. We
lay stationary all that night and on the next evening, Sept. the 29th, at six o'clock we weighed
anchor and went at slow speed down the stream. Several other vessels had preceded us, the orders
to move being sent by wireless. We passed the Terrace where cheer after cheer went up from
the black line of spectators crowded against the railing. Our men climbed up into the rigging
and their cheers went forth to the land that they were leaving. It was a glorious evening.
The sun had set and the great golden light, fast deepening into crimson, burnt behind the northern
hills and lit up the windows of the houses on the cliffs of Levis opposite. We moved down past
the Custom House. We saw the St. Charles Valley and the Beauport shore, but ever our eyes turned
to the grim outline of Cape Diamond and the city set upon the hill. Beside me on the upper
deck stood a young officer. We were talking together and wondering if we should ever see that
rock again. He never did. He and his only brother were killed in the war. We reached the end
of the Island of Orleans, and looking back saw a deeper crimson flood the sky, till the purple
mists of evening hid Quebec from our view.

We had a lovely sail down the St. Lawrence in superb weather and   (p. 026) three days later
entered the great harbour of Gaspé Basin. Here the green arms of the hills encompassed us,
as though Canada were reluctant to let us go. Gaspé Basin has historical memories for Canada,
for it was there that Wolfe assembled his fleet on his voyage to the capture of Quebec. We
lay at anchor all day, and at night the moon came up and flooded the great water with light,
against which stood out the black outline of thirty ships, so full of eager and vigorous life.
About midnight I went on deck to contemplate the scene. The night was calm and still. The vessels
lay dark and silent with all lights screened. The effect was one of lonely grandeur. What was
it going to mean to us? What did fate hold in store? Among those hills, the outline of which
I could now but faintly see, were the lakes and salmon rivers in the heart of the great forests
which make our Canadian wild life so fascinating. We were being torn from that life and sent
headlong into the seething militarism of a decadent European feudalism. I was leaning on the
rail looking at the track of moonlight, when a young lad came up to me and said, "Excuse me,
Sir, but may I talk to you for a while? It is such a weird sight that it has got on my nerves."
He was a young boy of seventeen who had come from Vancouver. Many times afterwards I met him
in France and Belgium, when big things were being done in the war, and we talked together over
that night in Gaspé Basin and the strange thoughts that crowded upon us then. He was not the
only one in that great fleet of transports who felt the significance of the enterprise.

On Saturday afternoon we resumed our journey and steamed out of the narrows. Outside the bay
the ships formed into a column of three abreast, making a line nine miles in length. Several
cruisers, and later a battleship and battle cruiser, mounted guard over the expedition. Off
Cape Race, the steamship "Florizel" joined us, bringing the Newfoundland troops. Our family
party was now complete.

It was indeed a family party. On every ship we had friends. It seemed as if Canada herself
were steaming across the ocean. Day after day, in perfect weather, keeping our relative positions
in absolute order, we sped over the deep. There was none of the usual sense of loneliness which
characterizes the ocean voyage. We looked at the line of vessels and we felt that one spirit
and one determination quickened the whole fleet into individual life.

On board the "Andania" the spirit of the men was excellent. There  (p. 027) was physical drill
daily to keep them fit. There was the gymnasium for the officers. We had boxing matches for
all, and sword dances also for the Highlanders. In the early morning at five-thirty, the pipers
used to play reveille down the passages. Not being a Scotsman, the music always woke me up.
At such moments I considered it my duty to try to understand the music of the pipes. But in
the early hours of the morning I made what I thought were discoveries. First I found out that
all pipe melodies have the same bass. Secondly I found out that all pipe melodies have the
same treble. On one occasion the pipers left the security of the Highlanders' quarters and
invaded the precincts of the 14th Battalion, who retaliated by turning the hose on them. A
genuine battle between the contending factions was only averted by the diplomacy of the O.C.

I had made friends with the wireless operators on board the ship, and every night I used to
go up to their cabin on the upper deck and they would give me reports of the news which had
been flashed out to the leading cruiser. They told me of the continued German successes and
of the fall of Antwerp. The news was not calculated to act as a soothing nightcap before going
to bed. I was sworn to secrecy and so I did not let the men know what was happening at the
front. I used to look round at the bright faces of the young officers in the saloon and think
of all that those young fellows might have to endure before the world was saved. It gave everyone
on board a special sacredness in my eyes, and one felt strangely inadequate and unworthy to
be with them.

The men lived below decks and some of them were packed in pretty tightly. Had the weather been
rough there would have been a good deal of suffering. During the voyage our supply of flour
gave out, but as we had a lot of wheat on board, the men were set to grind it in a coffee mill.
More than fifty per cent of the men, I found, were members of the Church of England, and so
I determined to have a celebration of Holy Communion, for all who cared to attend, at five
o'clock every morning. I always had a certain number present, and very delightful were these
services at that early hour. Outside on deck we could hear the tramp and orders of those engaged
in physical drill, and inside the saloon where I had arranged the altar there knelt a small
gathering of young fellows from various parts of Canada, who were pleased to find that the
old Church was going with them on    (p. 028) their strange pilgrimage. Now and then vessels
would be sighted on the horizon and there was always much excitement and speculation as to
what they might be. We could see the cruisers making off in the direction of the strangers
and taking a survey of the ocean at long range.

One day a man on the "Royal George" fell overboard, and a boat was instantly lowered to pick
him up. The whole fleet came to a standstill and all our glasses were turned towards the scene
of rescue. Often in our battles when we saw the hideous slaughter of human beings, I have thought
of the care for the individual life which stopped that great fleet in order to save one man.

Our destination, of course, was not known to us. Some thought we might go directly to France,
others that we should land in England. When at last, skirting the south coast of Ireland, we
got into the English Channel, we felt more than ever the reality of our adventure. I believe
we were destined for Southampton; but rumour had it that a German submarine was waiting for
us in the Channel, so we turned into the harbour of Plymouth. It was night when we arrived.
A low cloud and mist hung over the dark choppy waves of the Channel. From the forts at Plymouth
and from vessels in the harbour, long searchlights moved like the fingers of a great ghostly
hand that longed to clutch at something. We saw the small patrol boats darting about in all
directions and we felt with a secret thrill that we had got into that part of the world which
was at war. We arrived at Plymouth on the evening of October 14th, our voyage having lasted
more than a fortnight. Surely no expedition, ancient or modern, save that perhaps which Columbus
led towards the undiscovered continent of his dreams, was ever fraught with greater significance
to the world at large. We are still too close to the event to be able to measure its true import.
Its real meaning was that the American continent with all its huge resources, its potential
value in the ages to come, had entered upon the sphere of world politics, and ultimately would
hold in its hands the sceptre of world dominion. Even the British thought that we had come
(p. 029) merely to assist the Mother Country in her difficulties. Those who were at the helm
in Canada, however, knew that we were not fighting for the security of the Mother Country only,
but for the security of Canadian nationalism itself. Whatever the ages hold in store for us
in this great and rich Dominion which stretches from sea to sea and from the river unto the
world's end, depended upon our coming out victors in the great European struggle.

CHAPTER III.

On Sunday the 18th, our men entrained and travelled to Patney, and from thence marched to Westdown
South, Salisbury Plain. There tents had been prepared and we settled down to life in our new
English home. At first the situation was very pleasant. Around us on all sides spread the lines
of tents. The weather was delightful. A ride over the mysterious plain was something never
to be forgotten. The little villages around were lovely and quaint. The old town of Salisbury,
with its wonderful Cathedral and memories of old England, threw the glamour of romance and
chivalry over the new soldiers in the new crusade. But winter drew on, and such a winter it
was. The rains descended, the floods came and the storms beat upon our tents, and the tents
which were old and thin allowed a fine sprinkling of moisture to fall upon our faces. The green
sward was soon trampled into deep and clinging mud. There was nothing for the men to do. Ammunition
was short, there was little rifle practice. The weather was so bad that a route march meant
a lot of wet soldiers with nowhere to dry their clothes upon their return. In some places the
mud went over my long rubber boots. The gales of heaven swept over the plain unimpeded. Tents
were blown down. On one particularly gloomy night, I met a chaplain friend of mine in the big
Y.M.C.A. marquee. I said to him, "For goodness sake let us do something for the men. Let us
have a sing-song." He agreed, and we stood in the middle of the marquee with our backs to the
pole and began to sing a hymn. I do not know what it was. I started the air and was going on
so beautifully that the men were beginning to be attracted and were coming around us. Suddenly
my friend struck in with a high tenor note. Hardly had the sound gone forth when, like the
fall of the walls of Jericho at the sound of Joshua's trumpets, a mighty gale struck the building,
and with a ripping sound the whole thing collapsed. In the rain and darkness we rushed to the
assistance of the attendants and extinguished the lamps, which had been upset, while the men
made their way to the counters and put the cigarettes and other dainties into their pockets,
lest they should get wet. On another occasion, the Paymaster's tent blew     (p. 031) away
as he was paying off the battalion. Five shilling notes flew over the plain like white birds
over the sea. The men quickly chased them and gathered them up, and on finding them stained
with mud thought it unnecessary to return them. On another night the huge marquee where Harrod's
ran the mess for a large number of officers, blew down just as we were going to dinner, and
we had to forage in the various canteens for tinned salmon and packages of biscuits.

Still, in spite of all, the spirits of our men never failed. One night when a heavy rain had
turned every hollow into a lake, and every gully into a rushing cataract, I went down to some
tents on a lower level than my own. I waded through water nearly a foot deep and came to a
tent from which I saw a faint light emerging. I looked inside and there with their backs to
the pole stood some stalwart young Canadians. On an island in the tent, was a pile of blankets,
on which burnt a solitary candle. "Hello, boys, how are you getting on?" "Fine, Sir, fine,"
was their ready response. "Well, boys, keep that spirit up," I said, "and we'll win the war."

