My expedition was all the talk that day and that night, and the boys were very good to me,
and made much of me, and seemed to have forgotten their vexation and disappointment, and come
to be as anxious for me to hive those ogres and set those ripe old virgins loose as if it were
themselves that had the contract.  Well, they were good children--but just children, that is
all.  And they gave me no end of points about how to scout for giants, and how to scoop them
in; and they told me all sorts of charms against enchantments, and gave me salves and other
rubbish to put on my wounds.  But it never occurred to one of them to reflect that if I was
such a wonderful necromancer as I was pretending to be, I ought not to need salves or instructions,
or charms against enchantments, and, least of all, arms and armor, on a foray of any kind--even
against fire-spouting dragons, and devils hot from perdition, let alone such poor adversaries
as these I was after, these commonplace ogres of the back settlements.

I was to have an early breakfast, and start at dawn, for that was the usual way; but I had
the demon's own time with my armor, and this delayed me a little.  It is troublesome to get
into, and there is so much detail.  First you wrap a layer or two of blanket around your body,
for a sort of cushion and to keep off the cold iron; then you put on your sleeves and shirt
of chain mail--these are made of small steel links woven together, and they form a fabric so
flexible that if you toss your shirt onto the floor, it slumps into a pile like a peck of wet
fish-net; it is very heavy and is nearly the uncomfortablest material in the world for a night
shirt, yet plenty used it for that--tax collectors, and reformers, and one-horse kings with
a defective title, and those sorts of people; then you put on your shoes--flat-boats roofed
over with interleaving bands of steel--and screw your clumsy spurs into the heels.  Next you
buckle your greaves on your legs, and your cuisses on your thighs; then come your backplate
and your breastplate, and you begin to feel crowded; then you hitch onto the breastplate the
half-petticoat of broad overlapping bands of steel which hangs down in front but is scolloped
out behind so you can sit down, and isn't any real improvement on an inverted coal scuttle,
either for looks or for wear, or to wipe your hands on; next you belt on your sword; then you
put your stove-pipe joints onto your arms, your iron gauntlets onto your hands, your iron rat-trap
onto your head, with a rag of steel web hitched onto it to hang over the back of your neck--and
there you are, snug as a candle in a candle-mould. This is no time to dance.  Well, a man that
is packed away like that is a nut that isn't worth the cracking, there is so little of the
meat, when you get down to it, by comparison with the shell.

The boys helped me, or I never could have got in.  Just as we finished, Sir Bedivere happened
in, and I saw that as like as not I hadn't chosen the most convenient outfit for a long trip.
How stately he looked; and tall and broad and grand.  He had on his head a conical steel casque
that only came down to his ears, and for visor had only a narrow steel bar that extended down
to his upper lip and protected his nose; and all the rest of him, from neck to heel, was flexible
chain mail, trousers and all.  But pretty much all of him was hidden under his outside garment,
which of course was of chain mail, as I said, and hung straight from his shoulders to his ankles;
and from his middle to the bottom, both before and behind, was divided, so that he could ride
and let the skirts hang down on each side.  He was going grailing, and it was just the outfit
for it, too.  I would have given a good deal for that ulster, but it was too late now to be
fooling around.