Savagely cursing, Luke Fenton reeled backward from the porthole, his great hairy paws clapped
over his eyes. No one had warned him, and he did not know that total blindness might result
from gazing too earnestly into the sun's unscreened flaming orb, especially with that body
not more than twenty million miles distant in space.

[Sidenote: Mighty Luke Fenton swaggers defiantly in Vulcan's Workshop, most frightful of Martian
prisons.]

He did not know, in fact, that the ethership was that close: Luke had not the faintest notion
of the vast distances of the universe or of the absence of air in space which permitted the
full intensity of the dazzling rays to strike into his optics unfiltered save by the thick
but clear glass which covered the port. He knew only that the sun, evidently very near, was
many times its usual size and of infinitely greater brilliance. And he was painfully aware
of the fact that the fantastically enlarged and blazing body had seared his eyeballs and caused
the floating black spots which now completely obscured his vision.

Stumbling in his blindness, he fell across the hard cot that was the sole article of furniture
in the cell he had occupied for more than two weeks. Lying there half dazed and with splitting
head, he cursed the guard who had opened the inner cover of the port; cursed anew the fish-eyed
Martian judge who had sentenced him to a term in Vulcan's Workshop.

Several of Luke's thirty-eight years had been spent in jails and sundry other penal institutions
devised by Earthman and Martian for the punishment of offenders against the laws of organized
society. And yet they had failed to break his defiant spirit or to convince him of the infallibility
of his creed that might makes right. Nor had they taken from him the gorillalike strength that
was in his broad squat body, the magnificent brute lustihood that made him a terror to police
and citizen alike. Instead, the many periods of incarceration had only served to increase his
hatred of mankind and his contempt of the forces of law and order. Especially was he contemptuous
of the book-learning that gave the authorities their power.

As the pain back of his eyes abated, Luke could see dimly the shaft of light that slanted down
from the porthole to the bare steel floor. His sight was returning, yet he lay there still,
growling in his throat, his mind occupied with thoughts of his checkered past.

                     *      *      *      *      *

Steel-worker, mechanic, roustabout, he had worked in most of the populous cities of Earth and
had managed to get into serious trouble wherever he went. It was his boast that he had never
killed a man except in fair fight. And yet, at thirty, finding himself wanted by the police
of a half dozen cities of Earth, he had signed up in the black gang of a tramp ethership bound
for Mars, knowing he would never return and caring not at all.

At first, he had been riotously happy in the changed life on the new world. There had been
plenty of soul-satisfying brawls and plenty of chulco, the fiery Martian distillate. On his
many and frequent jobs there were excellent opportunities to rebel against authority, and he
had fomented numerous mutinies in which he was always victorious but which usually landed him
in one of the malodorous Martian jails for a more or less extended stay.

Then had come that final fracas in the Copau foundry on the bank of Canal Pyramus. Overly optimistic,
Luke's new boss had struck out at the chunky, red-headed Earthman during an inconsequential
argument and had promptly measured his length in a sand pile as a hamlike fist crashed home
in return. They had picked up the foreman and taken him to the infirmary where it was found
that his skull was fractured and that he had little chance for life. There were the red police
after that, and Luke, single-handed, trounced four of them so soundly and thoroughly that someone
sent in a riot call. It had taken a dozen of the reserves to club him into submission at the last.

That was too much for Martian justice. In pronouncing sentence the judge had termed Luke an
incurably vicious character and a menace to society such as the planet had never harbored.
And Luke, his head swathed in bandages from which his wiry red hair bristled like the comb
of a gamecock, had grinned evilly and snarled his defiance.

And so they were taking him to the dread prison camp known as Vulcan's Workshop, a mysterious
place of horror and hardship from which no convict had ever returned. Vaguely Luke knew that
it was located on still another world, away off somewhere in the heavens. He had seen the lips
of men go white when they were condemned to its reputed torture, had heard them plead for death
in preference. Yet its terrors had not awed him; they did not awe him now. He had beaten the
law before; he'd beat it again--even in Vulcan's Workshop.

                     *      *      *      *      *

A key rattled in the lock and Luke Fenton leaped to his feet, facing the barred door with feet
spread wide and with his massive shoulders hunched expectantly. He could see now, with much
blinking and watering of his still aching eyes, and he looked out with sneering disapproval
at the three guards in the corridor. They were afraid of him, singly, these Martian cops, even
though armed with the deadly dart guns and with shot-loaded billies. So afraid, Luke chuckled
inwardly, that they had kept him from the other prisoners throughout the trip, kept him in
solitary confinement.

The door was opening and it came to Luke that the ethership was strangely and hollowly silent.
The rocket tubes were stilled, that was it, and even the motors that drove the great ventilating
fans had been stopped. They had arrived.

No time now to start anything. He would have to submit tamely to whatever they might mete out
to him in the way of punishment--until he got the lay of the land. It would require some time
to study things out and to plan. But plan he would, and act; they'd never hold him here until
he died of whatever it was that killed men quickly in Vulcan's Workshop. Not Luke Fenton.

Sullenly docile, he was prodded forward to the air-lock. A draft of hot fetid air swept through
the corridor, carrying with it the forewarning of unspeakable things to come. And a shriek
of mortal terror wafted in from outside by the stinking breeze, told of some poor devil already
demoralized. The thick muscles of Luke's biceps tightened to hard knots under his black prison
jacket.

                     *      *      *      *      *

They were outside then and Luke essayed a deep breath, a breath that was chokingly acrid in
his throat.

"Waugh!" he coughed, and spat. One of the guards laughed.

Any foul epithet that might have formed on Fenton's lips was forgotten in the sight that met
his eyes. A barren and rugged terrain stretched out from the landing stage, a land utterly
desolate of vegetation and incapable of supporting life. Pockmarked with craters and seamed
with yawning fissures from which dense vapors curled, it was seemingly devoid of habitation.
And the scene was visible only in the lurid half light of flame-shot mists that hung low over
all. In the all too near distance, awesomely vast and ruddy columns of fire rose and fell with
monotonous regularity. For the first time, Luke experienced something of the superstitious
fear exhibited by even the most hardened criminals when faced with a term at Vulcan's Workshop.
That term, to them, meant horror and misery, torture and swift death. And he, too, was ready
to believe it now.

He was prodded down an incline that led from the landing stage to the rocks below. The guards
from the ethership, he saw, remained behind on the platform and there were new guards awaiting
him below. Husky fellows, these were, in strange bulky clothing and armed with the highest
powered dart guns. The other prisoners from the vessel were already down there, a huddled and
frightened mass--a squashed pile, almost--silent now and watchful of their jailers.

                     *      *      *      *      *

"Come on, show some speed, tough guy!" a guard yelled from the foot of the runway. "Think this
is a reception?"

Another of the guards guffawed hoarsely, and Luke choked back the blasting retort that rose
in his throat. Plenty of time yet before he'd be ready to make things hot for those birds.

The runway, he observed, was a strip of yielding metal that glowed faintly with an unnatural
greenish light. He was nearing its lower end when the siren of the ethership shrieked and he
heard the clang of the outer door of its air-lock as it swung to its seat.

Then he stepped out to the smooth stone slab on which the nearest of the guards was standing.
Immediately it was as if a tremendous weight was flung upon him, bearing him down until his
knees buckled beneath him. He was rooted to the spot by an enormous force which dragged at
his vitals and weighted his limbs to leaden uselessness. With a mighty effort he raised his
head to look up into the grinning yellow face of the guard, and his thick neck muscles were
taut gnarled ridges under the strain.

"Damn your hide!" he howled. "It's a trick. I'll break you in two for this, you slob!"

His huge biceps tensed and his fists came up. But they came up slowly and ineffectually, ponderous
things he could scarcely lift. A great roaring of rocket tubes was in his ears then, and the
ethership screamed off through the red mists while he dabbed futilely at the leering yellow
face. And vile curses rasped from between his set teeth at the laughter of the guards.

                     *      *      *      *      *

Luke Fenton never had taken the trouble to learn or he would have known something about this
planet Vulcan on which he was a prisoner. As far back as 1859, by Earth chronology, its existence
within the orbit of Mercury had been reported by one Lescarbault, a French physician. But other
astronomers had failed to confirm, in fact had ridiculed his discovery, and it was not until
some years after the establishing of interplanetary travel in the first decade of the twenty-first
century that the body was definitely located.

Vulcan, the smallest and innermost of the planets, circles the sun with great rapidity at a
mean distance of twenty million miles. Its periods of rotation and revolution are equal, so
that it always presents the same face toward the solar system's great center of heat and light--for
which reason one side is terrifically hot and the other, that facing into outer space, unbearably
cold.

There is no life native to the body, and mankind has found it possible to exist only in the
narrow belt immediately on the dark side of the terminator, the line of demarcation between
night and day. Here there are the dense vapors, illuminated perpetually by refracted light
from the daylight side and by the internal fires of the planet itself, fires which erupt at
regular intervals through many fissures and craters. And it is only under greatest hardship
that man can exist even here, what with the noxious gases and the extremes of heat and cold
to which his body it subjected. There is no natural source of water or of food, so these essentials
must of necessity be conveyed from Mars or Earth by ethership.

In spite of all this, man has persisted in establishing himself in the vapor belt of Vulcan
for the sake of wresting from the rocky soil its vast deposits of rare ores, and a great number
of mining operations are continually in progress. All of these are commercial projects and
are worked by adventurous seekers of fortune, save only the penal colony known as Vulcan's
Workshop: But no Terrestrial or Martian, however greedy for riches, would dare to remain longer
than two lunar months, which is the average time limit of human endurance. Only the condemned
remain, and these remain to die.

                     *      *      *      *      *

Though hardly more than two hundred miles in diameter, Vulcan is possessed of a surface gravity
almost six times greater than that on Earth. This is due to the planet's core of neutronium,
the densest known substance of the universe, a little understood concentration of matter whose
atoms comprise only nuclei from which all negative electrons have been stripped by some stupendous
cataclysm of nature.

And so it was that Luke Fenton, uninsulated from the tremendous gravity pull when he stepped
from the charged metal of the runway, was struggling against his own bodily weight, suddenly
increased to more than twelve hundred pounds.

Doggedly, the Earthman pitted his mighty sinews against the force he could not understand.
Here was an intangible thing, yet it was a power that challenged his own brute strength, and
he exerted himself to the limit in accepting the challenge. With legs spread wide and with
sweat oozing from every pore, he heaved himself erect, straightening knees and spine and standing
there firmly on his two feet.

"He's carrying it!" came the husky whisper of a guard. "This bird is tough."

Craftily, Luke bared his white, even teeth in a good-humored grin. He had seen what they were
doing with the other prisoners, fitting them one by one with the strange bulky breeches--garments
that gave forth a faint greenish glow like that of the runway. And each of the men, so attired,
was enabled somehow to get to his feet easily and walk about as if unhampered by the force
which had flattened him to the rocks and which still held Luke's straining body in its grip.

                     *      *      *      *      *

The yellow-skinned guard, a Terrestrial of Asiatic origin, was solemnly engaged now in lacing
the slitted legs of a similar garment to Luke's rigid nether limbs. Yet there was no cessation
of that awful weight when the thing was done. The guard stepped back and leered wickedly. He
had slung his dart gun over his shoulder and now produced a slender black tube which he leveled
at Luke's midsection.

"You walk now, Fenton," he snarled.

The Earthman rose upward as if he would leave the ground. Two or three inches seemed added
to his stature, and his muscles trembled from the sudden release. He stepped a pace forward.

Then a light beam flashed forth from the black tube and Luke sagged down with an astonished
oath squeezed grunting from his throat. The swift renewal of the inexplicable force had caught
him off balance and he dropped ignominiously to his knees.

"Ha!" gloated the Oriental. "It is thus we control the tough ones, Fenton. I've given you a
warning; now get up--and march!"

On the last word came blessed release and the return of Luke's strength. He marched, meekly
falling in with the file of new prisoners. He even smiled through the red stubble of his beard.
But black hatred was in his heart, and renewed determination that he'd get away from this place
somehow--alive.

Time would show him the way.

                     *      *      *      *      *

Fenton's slow but retentive mind absorbed many things during the succeeding few days. There
was neither day nor night in this hellish place--only the flame-lit mists; but they had clocks
like those of Earth, and you worked fourteen hours on the slope or in the smelter and had the
rest of each so-called day of twenty-four hours in which to eat and sleep.

The food was coarse, but there was plenty of it. There was only water to drink, lukewarm stinking
stuff, doled out sparingly in rusty tin cups. And, during the sleeping periods, you were required
to take off the gravity-insulated garments and sleep in huts with insulated floor coverings.
The charged floor, of course, allowed you to sleep without being smashed flat on the uncomfortable
cots. But they had you safe in these sleeping huts; they took away your clothes and you couldn't
step out of the door without taking on the weight of a half a dozen men.

The Workshop itself was in a vast excavation from whose slopes a silvery-veined ore was being
removed. There were the blast furnace and reduction plant on the one side and the convicts'
huts and more pretentious houses of the guards on the other. And the choking mists, and the
lurid flame behind. The stifling heat, Luke learned, too, that every ninth day, with what they
called the libration of Vulcan, there came an equal period of raw and biting cold to replace
the heat. As bad or worse, that would be.

There were perhaps three hundred prisoners here, Luke guessed, and a guard allotted to each
squad of fifteen men. Not many guards for so large a number of convicts--but enough. The weird
gravity of Vulcan had taken care of that, and the flashlight things they always carried--queer
lights that would instantly neutralize the insulating property of his clothing and render a
man helpless.

                     *      *      *      *      *

Luke was working high up on the slope, with rock drill and pick. The group to which he had
been assigned was composed entirely of new prisoners, mostly white men, but with a few blacks
and one coppery-skinned drylander of Mars. Whimpering, hopeless creatures, all of them; not
worth his notice. All day he labored without speaking to any of them and the quantities of
ore he removed gave mute evidence of his tireless vigor. If Kulan, the giant Martian guard,
took any notice of it he gave no sign.

During the sleeping period, which they persisted in calling night, things were different. No
guards were needed in the escape-proof huts and there was some surreptitious fraternizing among
the prisoners. As long as they made no undue noise, they were left to their own devices. But
for the most part they went to sleep heavily and wordlessly as soon as they flung into their
bunks. A broken-spirited lot.

Luke saw men suffering from some horrible malady that made them cough and scream and bleed
from nose and mouth. Old-timers, these were, men who had survived for as many as three of four
months. He saw them, in their agony, beg the guards for merciful death; heard the brutal laughter
of their tormentors. Only when they were no longer able to rise from their bunks were they
put out of their misery by one of the singing darts from the senior guard's gun.

Novak had it, this malady known as X.C.--Novak, the scar-faced, yellow-fanged rat who occupied
the bunk beneath Luke's and who talked to him in hoarse whispers long after the others had
gone to sleep. It was from Novak that Luke was learning, and the knowledge he gained by listening
to the doomed man served only to intensify the flame of hate that smoldered deep in his barrel-like
chest.

After three red-lit days of grueling labor and three similarly red-lit nights of listening
to Novak, he reached the grudging conclusion that escape from this place was impossible. With
this conviction there came to him a deeper bitterness and the resolve that he, Luke Fenton,
would have his revenge before he went the way of the rest.

Perhaps the law had him for keeps this time--it certainly seemed so; but he'd leave his mark
on its representatives yet.

                     *      *      *      *      *

At inspection preceding the next labor period, Luke began doing things.

The prisoners were lined up and the guards were parading the line, reassigning them to new
working squads, which were shifted and rearranged every third day. Kulan, the big Martian,
selected Luke.

"You, Fenton," he snapped, "ten paces forward."

Luke grinned but made no move.

Amazed, the guard stepped closer. "You heard me!" he roared. "I'm keepin' you in my squad,
tough guy."

A ripple of astonished comment ran along the line and the other guards bellowed for silence.
Kulan fingered the black tube of his neutro-beam and his broad face was chalky white.

Luke advanced two paces, still grinning. And he looked up sneeringly into the grim face that
was a foot above his own.

"That's right, you big ape," he grated, "you ain't man enough to fight the way men fight. Gotta
use dart guns, or gravity."

It was sheer baiting of the big Martian. Fenton was shrewd and he knew the fellow's kind, quick
to resent insult and prouder of their physical size and prowess than of any other possession.
He saw the flush that rose to replace the guard's pallor, saw the huge lithe body go tense.
Laughing derisively, he completed his ten paces with leisurely aplomb.

Speechless with rage, Kulan stood rigid. Furtive boos and a few hoarse cheers came from somewhere
in the long line of convicts, and Luke saw several men flattened to the ground by swift darting
neutro-beams.

And then the head guard came running from the small bastion. "What the hell?" he demanded of
Kulan. "Any trouble?"

Kulan saluted, and his eyes were narrow slits. "No sir," he returned stiffly, "no trouble."

Eyeing Luke suspiciously, the senior guard grunted, then moved on along the line. And the work
of reallotting squads went on.

                     *      *      *      *      *

It was exactly as Fenton had expected. This Kulan, a head over him in stature and broad in
proportion, was sure in his mind that he could handle the red-headed Earthman without resort
to weapons. And the taunt as to his physical ability had struck home. In some way that guard
would maneuver matters so the encounter could come about. Besides, he would endeavor to keep
Luke in his squad where he would be able to drive him to the utmost. The guards, Novak had
said, were on the job only a month when they were replaced by fresh recruits--and their pay
was based on the productivity of the squads they commanded. Kulan had seen that the Earthman
was a real sapper; worth three of the others. And he'd try to keep it so.

That working period was a highly gratifying one to Luke. With the rankling hatred concentrated
and directed at Kulan, he was positively gleeful. And yet he was content to bide his time.
He swung his pick and wielded his rock drill with joyful abandon, so that three men were kept
busy loading the ore he removed.

Kulan, he saw with satisfaction, was sullen and watchful. But no word passed between the two.
And the Earthman knew he had planted a seed that was bound to sprout and grow until it bore fruit.

                     *      *      *      *      *

At the midday mess it happened. The shifting of men had brought Novak in the same squad with
Luke and they came in to sit at the long table together. Kulan eyed them narrowly from the
head of the board.

"Say," Novak whispered, "yuh got under Kuley's skin, know it? He'll run yuh ragged."

"Yes?" Luke looked up at the guard, saw he was scowling darkly in their direction, and grinned
evilly. "I'll run him, you mean. I'll bust him in two if I get my hands on him."

"Yuh ain't got a chance, I tell yuh. I seen a guy once, take a poke at a guard, and what they
done to him was plenty. They----"

With that, the wasted body of Novak bent double and he dropped to the ground screaming. Blood
gushed from his nostrils. Luke had seen the same thing happen to several others and he knew
what to expect. It was all over for Novak, or nearly over.

Kulan came running and turned the stricken man face up.

"You'll last another period," he snarled. "Get up and eat."

