"Joel, when you happen to pass young Mis' Thompson's I want you to stop and tell her that I've
got a piece of goods here that maybe belongs to her.  Ask her if she'll come in the first time
she's by.  You might say, Joel, that I'd be much obliged if she'd make a point of coming soon,
as I have a general cleaning up along about this season, and I like to get rid of all the odds
and ends that are cluttering up things."

Nothing in Joel's expression indicated that he had even heard the commission, but his look
of gloomy abstraction did not deceive his sister who was perfectly aware that he understood
her request and would take a certain satisfaction in executing it.  She returned to her mail,
making short work of an advertisement of a new substitute for silk linings and another which
offered a fashion periodical at bargain prices.  The last letter in the pile again aroused
her curiosity, for the upper left-hand corner bore the legend, "Delaney and Briggs, Attorneys
at Law."

"Lawyers, too.  Well, I don't blame Joel for feeling exercised."  She recalled the implied
threat in a recent communication from Mr. Washington Thompson regarding the return of his property,
and the thought crossed her mind that possibly he had invoked legal aid for its recovery.

She was standing as she began to read.  Half-way down the page she uttered an exclamation and
staggered to a chair.  She finished the letter, laid it down, took it up again and reread it.
Then rising, she busied herself with various tasks about the room, doing over several things
she had already completed and ignoring some obvious needs.  This accomplished, she read the
letter for a third time and brought out her sewing.  After five minutes of desultory work,
she folded the garment and laid it away.  For the next two hours she might have served as a
study of contemplation.  Her chin upon her hands, her eyes musing, she sat motionless, almost
rigid, as the big clock ticked off the seconds.

Joel shuffled into the room on the stroke of twelve.  "Mis' Thompson says she'll likely go
by sometime to-day or to-morrow and she'll stop in."

Persis did not reply, and for the first time Joel noticed his sister's unusual attitude.  He
looked at her and then at the clock.

"Ain't dinner ready?"

"Dinner?"

"Yes, dinner!  What ails you?  You act as if you'd never heard of such a thing as meal-time."

"I didn't think it was time for dinner yet," Persis answered, rousing herself.  Again Joel
inspected her sharply.

"Haven't you been sewing this morning?"

"No, I did start, but I didn't feel like keeping it up."

Joel's face expressed mingled concern and amazement.  That Persis should sit idle a morning
from choice was extraordinary enough to be alarming.  "Don't you feel well?"

"Me?  Oh, yes, I'm all right."  Persis went into the next room and began her preparations for
the meal.  It took her longer than usual. Joel watched the clock with frowning vexation, but
some quality abnormal and vaguely disquieting in his sister's manner kept him from putting
into words the impression that a man who is kept waiting a full hour for his dinner is hardly used.

His mood softened when at length appetizing odors diffusing themselves through the house, indicated
that the pot roast of day before yesterday which under Persis' thrifty management had as many
final appearances as a prima donna, was soon to grace the table as an Irish stew.  Joel dearly
loved that savory concoction, and though he was on his guard against allowing her to suspect
the fact, he privately placed his sister's dumplings on a par with Addison's poems.  Forgetting
both his grievance of the morning and his later anxiety, due to Persis' singular conduct, he
gave himself up to cheerful anticipation.

The problem which for generations has exercised the wits of amateur debaters was settled satisfactorily
in this instance, at least.  The joys of anticipation far exceeded the pleasure of realization.
Joel took one swallow of the stew and dropped his spoon with a splash.

"What in Sam Hill!  What kind of a mess do you call this?"

Persis took a hasty sip, looked incredulous and sipped again.  Slowly the shamed blood crept
to the roots of her hair.  Yet she spoke with a self-control fairly brazen.

"Looks as if I'd made a mistake and put in sugar instead of salt."

Joel's gaze swept the table, hawk-like in its searching eagerness.

"Where's the dumplings?"

"I--well, I declare, I forgot the dumplings."

He experienced a chill of actual terror.  This was his sister Persis, Persis the practical
and reliable, this woman who sugared the stew, and allowed the chef-d'oeuvre of the dinner
to slip her mind.  He was immediately aware of a singular flush staining her cheeks, a feverish
glitter in her eye.

The gentleness of his comment took her by surprise.  "I guess, Persis, it was only that you
was thinking of something else."

"That was it, Joel."  She hesitated, then moved by his forbearance spoke out plainly.  "I was
thinking, Joel, how it would seem to be rich."

Again his heart jumped.  Such vague vain wishing, so characteristic of many women, was absolutely
foreign to his sister's temperament.  He could not remember the time when she had overlooked
the present satisfaction, however poor and meager, in favor of some joy of fancy.

"I wouldn't let my mind stray off to such things," he said uneasily.

"Well, Joel, I guess I'll have to face it.  The fact is, you see, I am rich."

Her words fell like a thunderbolt, confirming his worst fears.  He sat aghast, unable to decide
whether Persis had lost her mind, or this was the delirium incident to some acute seizure.
In tones of such unnatural gentleness that his sister started as they fell on her ears, he
offered the only suggestion which occurred to him at the moment.

"Hadn't you better go lie down, Persis?"

"Me?  Why, I feel all right."

"Well, even if you do, lying down won't hurt you.  It's the best thing known to lengthen life.
You'd ought to take better care of yourself, Persis.  Half an hour a day--"

His sister interrupted him with a burst of laughter in which his preternaturally acute senses
detected the wildness of mania.

"Joel, I know what ails you.  You think I'm taking leave of my senses. It does sound that way,
I own, for a Dale to be talking about being rich.  I don't mean the Vanderbilt kind of riches,
you know, but a nice little income so I can keep a servant girl and never do any more sewing
and maybe buy an automobile."

"Persis Dale," exclaimed Joel, "you're as crazy as a June bug."

"Look for yourself, then."  Persis turned to the secretary where she had placed the letter
she had received that morning.  She felt more like herself than at any time since she had perused
the contents of that final astonishing communication.  In combatting Joel's incredulity, she
was able to set at rest certain disquieting doubts of her own as to her sanity.

Joel's jaw dropped as he read.  "Mrs. Persis Ann Crawford.  Why, that must mean Aunt Persis."

"Sure.  The one I was named for.  And I guess it's a good twenty-five years since we've had
a line from her."  She laughed a little hysterically, dabbing her eyes with her handkerchief.
"I don't s'pose I'm crying because she's dead, seeing I took it for granted that she'd passed
away years ago.  And yet all the time to leave me her money. Ain't life the funniest mix-up.
Yesterday I couldn't have afforded so much as a sick-headache.  And now if I want a run of
typhoid fever or my appendix cut out, it's nobody's business."

Joel laid down the letter with a gulp.  The impression uppermost in his mind was the singular
blindness of fortune in selecting the recipients of its bounty.

"It's a good deal of a responsibility for a woman," he said ruefully. "Seeing I'm the oldest,
it's rather odd Aunt Persis Ann didn't realize that I was the proper one to inherit.  But I
guess she thought it was all in the family, and you'd be guided by my advice."

Persis' answer was irrelevant.  "Joel, seems to me that so far my life's been for all the world
like a checked gingham, if you know what I mean."

But Joel did not know.  "Checked gingham!  I never heard such crazy talk."

"Made up of the same little things, all just alike," Persis explained patiently.  "And nothing
especially bright or cheerful about any of 'em.  I've a feeling as if I'd like a splash of
color now, velvet as green as grass and fire-red satin."

"Sounds as if you had the Scarlet Woman in mind," Joel said disapprovingly, and before Persis
had time to explain, young Mrs. Thompson had knocked.  She was a sorry figure for a wife of
less than a year's standing, a drooping little woman, pale, listless and heavy-eyed.

"Mr. Dale said something about your having a piece of my goods," she explained with such an
effect of indifference that Persis wondered she had taken the trouble to call.  Then her gaze
went to the table and the untouched meal.  "I'm afraid I've interrupted you."

"Not a mite, Mis' Thompson.  Walk right in!  Joel!"  Persis' authoritative glance in her brother's
direction indicated the propriety of his withdrawal.  Joel rose reluctantly.  It was not a
fitting that was in prospect nor even a discussion of styles where questions might arise which
could not suitably be debated before one of the opposite sex. Words were impossible. He would not be found. Only his eyes to his mouth was blooming
all the love he felt in those seconds. On tiptoe he went out.

       * * * * * A week later he came back Rolfers in the bog, the forest
edge sketching.

He squatted on his painting stool, awkwardly strange.

On closer Rolfers noticed that the boy had been bound with twine to the right arm on the back. He left
the sketch pad fall, when he saw Rolf on the narrow road near and wanted to run away. But he
threw the Malschemel to it and the footstool, which he had dragged
for paints and brushes, and stood abashed, tugging at his restraint.

"Boy - twisted, wonderful kid" I do not want anything better than
you, "he cried passionately, and tears sprang forth like flashes
of the bright eyes.

Rolfers had put his left arm around the neck and held him so that he may not like him ran. And
his cheek laid on the boy's head, hard to brush his hair.

"My boy, my dear boy," Nothing more was said about the case between
them.

       * * * * * Martha had nothing to fill with writing and cataloging
and bills of lading. Luetje had to nail down boxes, large and small,
and take it to the next station.

The whim of the professor was not the best. Surly he went about the house, was to blame and
to blame if something was not carried out as he wished.

A large art gallery in Berlin wanted to organize an exhibition of
his work, an overview of his work through various eras, from teenage
years on.

A tribute to the heroes who died for his country - wrote the owner.

Initially, Rolfers refused.

"Why - no one today has meaning for images. When we have concluded an honorable peace - yes, I liked
it let me. Then they can arrange for all I care honors the dead - with the laurel wreath and
the Florschleife under the largest ham. Now it's a flop. I will not.
"Finally he was persuaded yet.

Practical
considerations were decisive. With further merit for the future was not expected, because you
had to see, what exists as favorable as possible to recycle. Now his name was still in the minds
of art lovers, the museum director.

In two or three years he was forgotten, and sank the market price
of his paintings mean.

So he said to himself, with hard sincerity. And thought of Richard. He was ready to study what
is needed.

Even to go to Berlin to oversee the hanging of pictures, plus he could not decide. He shuddered at
the world, before the public.

A thousand times already he had been glad to have the remote homestead between meadow and mud -
a shelter here for the time to have the dream away, he still on earth to suffer, was forced.
hole up to a weidwund animal, before the compassion, the sentiment
of the people were already lucky.

He thought of sending Martha did, but that plan fall right back. You need not be drawn by the
artist gossip of the capital. Richard ...? Very young he was such a mission. In matters of art won
by a maturity of understanding, which was not related to his age.

One of the eternal mysteries in the world of natural events: this surpassing
of those called to the laws of time and downright development ... "Richard
- you pack a suitcase. You must be the day after the opening of my exhibition
in Berlin. I give you with a letter that introduces you as my representative.
What do you think - happy's up? You've got to tidy your eyes open, to
give me report!

Woe
to you, man, if you forget something important, "Richard stood with
open mouth - quite stupid with astonishment

.
  Better wait till the money's in your hand before you run
into extravagance piling up debts for us to work off later.  I guess it's a true saying that
if you put a beggar on horseback, he'll ride to the devil."

Within a week the innovations had reduced him to a condition of disapproving dumbness.  Paperhangers
and plasterers had taken possession of the old house.  The roof was being reshingled.  The
new electric lights gave to each successive evening an air of festive brilliancy.  The sagging
porch was in process of reconstruction.  It was the dull season from the builder's standpoint,
and Persis had no difficulty in securing workmen in sufficient numbers to hurry the work with
what seemed to herself, as well as to Joel, almost magical despatch.  A generous check deposited
to her credit in the Clematis Savings Bank had relieved Joel's earlier apprehensions.  The
bequest was no hoax.  But his constitutional parsimony rebelled against the outlay as if each
expenditure had meant want in the future.  While his dignity demanded that he should cease
the protests that were disregarded, his air of patient martyrdom expressed his sentiments with
all the plainness of speech.

The feminine half of the population of Clematis was in despair. 

"You - you want me but only kid - it's not true, Professor?"

Rolfers smiled.

Something like the boy's face to see now, that was adorable ...

"You
see - you laugh -.

But it is not true '

This came with an infinitely disappointed tone.

"Ask your mother!"

"Well, yes, Richard, the professor will give you confidence. The day after tomorrow with the morning train
you shall go. I ironed your good suit. "

Richard let out a scream that could have an Indian cries of joy called, and made jumps in the air
as his beloved foal in the pasture.

He raced upstairs and downstairs and it filled the whole house with
the roar of his stormy and Gesause Youth bliss.

Rolfers like Martha got a moment of silence to feel more until the small suitcase to the basket
cart, stood up to Richard in the eerily cool air border of the gray morning, taking leave of his
mother threw around his neck and Rolf, who also stood was to him
solemnly handed over the letter to the art dealer, his old friend,
his hand shook.

Rolf had in the letter made no secret of the fact that the young Messenger of his son was and
hopefully even his artistic heritage.

Thoughtfully, he looked like a rolling cart to, from which the boy passionately the cap waved back
as he rounded the corner. Martha was struck by how calm and serene
Rolfers three, looked at his face was a shining peace.

She sighed. It was not peaceful at mind, and she had all those nights her pillow moistened
with many tears. But the two that were keeping each other busy, had It ignored, however much
they complained of pain and grief associated walked beside them.

With two orders Richard next to the main purpose of his trip had
been considered. The Professor had him in the evening taken up with
the studio and showed him a fine old gold chain.

"Look, I want to
give your mother. She has had a lot of effort and work of the matter.
And I wish that you mitbrächtest her a beautiful dress material. A
soft wool, which gentle, flowing folds is the color I thought to myself
in a dark purple like ripe Plums. That must be well with her blond
hair and the chain. We want our mother but look pretty. It gives too
little attention to her appearance. "

"Yes, I have often told her,"
said Richard eagerly.

"Friends the same as carpets," Thomas thought with a little bitterness for which he at once
reproached himself.  For, after all, Persis' friendship had been stanch and steadfast till
his own confession had disclosed his unworthiness.  He atoned for his momentary lapse by making
her a substantial discount on the linoleum she wanted for the kitchen.

The seal of silence Joel had placed upon his lips was broken when the question of engaging
a servant girl came to the fore.  "Ain't you going to leave yourself nothing to do?" he demanded
wildly.  Then with a cunning for which few would have given him credit.  "You'll get as fat
as Etta West sitting around all day and being waited on."

Persis listened unmoved, her rather enigmatic smile suggesting that she clearly foresaw a way
out of that difficulty.

"I'm not afraid but what I can find enough to keep me busy.  Besides, I need a servant girl
to look after things when I'm away."

"Away?  Are you going away?"

"I'm going whenever I happen to feel like it.  And the first time'll be next week, Monday."

"Persis, where are you going?"

"To the city for a week or so."

Joel deliberated.  He rose and paced the room, halting at length in a dramatic posture, face
to face with his sister.

"Persis, I've got no love for the city as you well know.  As the poet says, 'God the first
garden made and the first city, Cain.'  But I'm ready to sacrifice myself for what's best for
you.  I'll go along."

Persis regarded him without any indication of fervent gratitude for the sacrifice so nobly
announced.

"It's good of you, Joel, but it won't be necessary."

He waved her protest away with a dominating gesture.

"It is necessary.  It won't do to turn a woman like you loose in a city like Boston.  As long
as you didn't have any money, it wasn't so much matter.  But now there'll be folks to sell
you gold bricks, and when you unwrap 'em, they won't be nothing but plain ordinary bricks after
all."

"They can't sell me bricks if I won't buy 'em, Joel."

"You don't know what they can do.  You never went up against a professional sharper.  Women
ain't any match for that kind.  They'll probably give me a bed at the hotel that hasn't been
used since sometime last winter, but never mind.  I'm going along to protect you."

"Joel!"  Persis' tone for all its gentleness showed plenty of decision. "Thank you, but this
time I don't want you."

"What's that?"

"Some other time when you feel like running up to the city for a few days, we'll go together.
But just now I've got some business to attend to."

"You mean I'd be in the way?"

"Yes."

"Persis."  Joel spoke in heart-broken accents.  "I guess the Good Book ain't far wrong in calling
money the root of all evil.  Up till you come into this prop'ty, you was all a man could ask
for in a sister." Like many another, Joel found his blessings brightest in retrospect. "But
now you're as set as a post and as stubborn as a mule.  It's pretty dangerous, Persis, when
a woman gets the idea she knows all that's worth knowing.  As the poet says, 'A little learning
is a dangerous thing.'  I feel in my bones that there's trouble coming out of this wild-goose
chase of yours."

It was not characteristic of Joel to keep his grievances secret. Wherever he went for the next
few days, he fairly oozed reproach and resentment.  And on the Monday when Persis took the
ten o'clock train for Boston it was generally understood that she had declined the pleasure
of her brother's company and was bent on an errand whose nature she alone knew.

"She'll put up at a hotel, I suppose," said Mrs. Hornblower.  "She'll have to, for there's
nobody in Boston she knows well enough to visit. A single woman staying alone at a hotel sounds
dreadful improper to me. Robert would never allow me to do such a thing, never for a minute.
And nobody even knows what she's gone for."

But Annabel Sinclair thought she knew.  "I shouldn't wonder," she told Diantha, "if when Persis
Dale gets back we'd see startling changes."

Her confidential tone was balm to Diantha's spirit.  For since the daughter's sudden leap into
maturity, the relations between the two had been strained, the instinct of sex rivalry overmastering
such shadowy maternal impulses as had outlived Diantha's babyhood.  The girl responded eagerly
to the advance.

"Yes, I shouldn't wonder if she'd have lots of new clothes."

"She'll need more than clothes to make her presentable, and she knows it, too."  Annabel's
voice was rasping.  "They have beauty-shops in the cities, you know, where they fix over old
women who want to look young, skin off the wrinkles and all sorts of things."  She flashed
a glance at the mirror--there was always a mirror convenient in the Sinclair establishment--and
smiled with malicious enjoyment.  Annabel did not need skinning.

Diantha edged away with sudden distaste.  "I don't think Miss Persis would do anything like
that, mama."

"Why not?"  Her mother spoke fiercely.  "It's the sensible thing to do when you need it.  After
her good looks are gone, there's nothing left for a woman."  The bitterness of a participant
in a losing fight flung a black shadow across her fairness.  For defy Time as she would, the
day must come when he would triumph.  She looked again at herself in the mirror as if already
he had stolen the bloom from her cheek and the gold from her hair and shuddered at the thought
of what must be. "Why have you came here and disturbed me?"

"I just thought that this night is so beautiful, you might want to
come out?" he said "I have things to do, leave me be."

Rolfers took off his glasses, laid them infront of him, and looked
back towards him.



He stood staring at the sinister brown envelope with its black lettering, and a chilly fear
clutched his heart.  One catastrophe after another suggested itself, each to be discarded in
favor of another more appalling.  Persis had lost her money.  She had met with an accident.
She was dead.  His bony hand shook till the envelope rattled, and the small boy who had brought
the message eyed him with curiosity.

"Any answer?"

