My mother earth sits to-day in the cornfields by the river-side, in her raiment of sunlit gold;
and near her feet, her knees, her lap, I roll about and play. Mother of a multitude of children,
she attends but absently to their constant calls on her, with an immense patience, but also
with a certain aloofness. She is seated there, with her far-away look fastened on the verge
of the afternoon sky, while I keep chattering on untiringly.

BALJA,

Tuesday, February 1893.

I do not want to wander about any more. I am pining for a corner in which to nestle down snugly,
away from the crowd.

India has two aspects--in one she is a householder, in the other a wandering ascetic. The former
refuses to budge from the home corner, the latter has no home at all. I find both these within
me. I want to roam about and see all the wide world, yet I also yearn for a little sheltered
nook; like a bird with its tiny nest for a dwelling, and the vast sky for flight.

I hanker after a corner because it serves to bring calmness to my mind. My mind really wants
to be busy, but in making the attempt it knocks so repeatedly against the crowd as to become
utterly frenzied and to keep buffeting me, its cage, from within. If only it is allowed a little
leisurely solitude, and can look about and think to its heart's content, it will express its
feelings to its own satisfaction.

This freedom of solitude is what my mind is fretting for; it would be alone with its imaginings,
as the Creator broods over His own creation.

CUTTACK,

February 1893.

Till we can achieve something, let us live incognito, say I. So long as we are only fit to
be looked down upon, on what shall we base our claim to respect? When we have acquired a foothold
of our own in the world, when we have had some share in shaping its course, then we can meet
others smilingly. Till then let us keep in the background, attending to our own affairs.

But our countrymen seem to hold the opposite opinion. They set no store by our more modest,
intimate wants which have to be met behind the scenes,--the whole of their attention is directed
to momentary attitudinising and display.

Ours is truly a God-forsaken country. Difficult, indeed, is it for us to maintain the strength
of will to do. We get no help in any real sense. There is no one, within miles of us, in converse
with whom we might gain an accession of vitality. No one near seems to be thinking, or feeling,
or working. Not a soul has any experience of big striving, or of really and truly living. They
all eat and drink, do their office work, smoke and sleep, and chatter nonsensically. When they
touch upon emotion they grow sentimental, when they reason they are childish. One yearns for
a full-blooded, sturdy, and capable personality; these are all so many shadows, flitting about,
out of touch with the world.

CUTTACK,

10th February 1893.

He was a fully developed John Bull of the outrageous type--with a huge beak of a nose, cunning
eyes, and a yard-long chin. The curtailment of our right to be tried by jury is now under consideration
by the Government. The fellow dragged in the subject by the ears and insisted on arguing it
out with our host, poor B---- Babu. He said the moral standard of the people of this country
was low; that they had no real belief in the sacredness of life; so that they were unfit to
serve on juries.

The utter contempt with which we are regarded by these people was brought home to me when I
saw how they can accept a Bengali's hospitality and talk thus, seated at his table, without
a quiver of compunction.

As I sat in a corner of the drawing-room after dinner, everything round me looked blurred to
my eyes. I seemed to be seated by the head of my great, insulted Motherland, who lay there
in the dust before me, disconsolate, shorn of her glory.