A great comet streamed through the sky "like a horsetail," and it was well known that that
meant pestilence or war. Then came tens of thousands of pigeons, stretching across the sky
as far as the eye could see. They were followed by vast swarms of what seem to have been cicadas,
which rose out of the ground, ate the fresh leaves of the trees, and then disappeared. So those
who believed in omens were not surprised when the year was marked by the greatest catastrophe
in the history of the colony.

But to understand what happened it is necessary to go back thirty-five years to the appointment
by Charles I of Sir William Berkeley as Governor of Virginia. No doubt the King considered
this an especial act of grace to the colony, for Berkeley was a member of the Privy Chamber,
and as such lived in the royal palace. It was this, perhaps, which fired him with an intense
loyalty for the House of Stuart which endured to the day of his death. To dispute the omnipotence
of the king was in his eyes the darkest of crimes. A Master of Arts at Oxford, a writer of
some merit, polished in manner, he seemed out of place in the forests of Virginia. Perhaps
it was his passion to rule which brought him to the colony, perhaps it was cupidity, for he
accumulated there a fortune of considerable size.

He had been in Virginia but a few months when word reached him of the outbreak of the Civil
War in England. He must have been horrified that anyone should dare to take up arms against
the sacred person of the King, and he sought permission to return to England to defend him.
So, in the summer of 1644, when Charles was bearing down on the Parliamentary forces under
Essex in Cornwall, Berkeley was with him. And he looked on with deep satisfaction as Sir Richard
Grenville ransacked Lord Roberts' house at Lanhydrock, eight miles north of Fowey, and made
off with silver plate worth £2000.

It was probably soon after this that word came of the terrible Indian massacre of April 18,
1644, for Berkeley was back in Virginia on June 7, 1645. Placing himself at the head of the
forces which had been bringing fire and destruction to the Indian villages, he soon forced
the savages to seek refuge in the woods and swamps. After he had captured their aged chief
Opechancanough, they sued for peace.

Upon receiving news of the execution of Charles I, Sir William proclaimed Charles II King.
And when, in 1652, a Parliamentary fleet sailed up the James to reduce the colony, he summoned
the militia and prepared for a stubborn resistance. It was only when his Council pointed out
the folly of defying the might of Britain that he reluctantly agreed to surrender. But his
soul was filled with bitterness. So, with the restoration of Charles II to the throne, when
once more he was governor of Virginia, he was determined to permit no more of representative
government than his commission and instructions made necessary.

This he did by corrupting the Burgesses and continuing them by prorogations for many years.
He took on himself "the sole nominating" of all civil and military officers, picking out such
persons as he thought would further his designs. Collectors', sheriffs', justices' places were
handed out to the Burgesses with a lavish hand. The list of Burgesses in the so-called Long
Assembly sounds like a military roll call, for of the thirty members in 1666, six were colonels
of militia, two lieutenant-colonels, one a major, and fourteen captains. Philip Alexander Bruce
states that "a large proportion of the justices were also members of the House of Burgesses."
In this way he "gained upon and obliged" the "men of parts and estates" in the Burgesses, and
made them subservient to his will. "He has so fortified his power over us as of himself without
respect to our laws to do what so ever he pleased," it was said.

