1922

The Sweet and Touching Tale of

FLEUR & BLANCHEFLEUR

Chapter I

It is recorded by ancient chronicles that in the year of grace 624 a certain heathen King of
Spain, Fenis by name, whose Queen was also a heathen, crossed over the sea with a mighty host
into Christendom, and there, in the space of three days, made such havoc of the land, with
destruction of towns, churches, and cloisters, that for full thirty miles from the shore where
he had landed, not a human being or habitation was left to show where happy homes had been.
Moreover, this King Fenis, while lading his ships with the booty thus ill-got, posted forty
of his men in ambush over against the highway, there to lie in wait for any pilgrims who might
pass by; and when presently a weary pilgrim band was seen toiling down the steep slope of a
mountain nigh at hand, the forty thieves rushed out upon the pilgrims and threatened them with
death, to escape which they readily parted with their goods; one only of the band showed fight,
and he was a Count of France, conducting his daughter, a new-made widow, to the shrine of St.
James at Compostella, where she had vowed to offer up prayer for her lord, lately slain in battle.

Bravely this Count fought, but all in vain, for, overborne by numbers, he was killed, and his
daughter carried a captive to the heathen King Fenis, who, straightway taking ship, sailed
back to Spain, and, when King Fenis was come home again, he divided the spoil among his soldiery,
giving a portion to each man according to his rank; but the Christian lady he bestowed upon
his Queen, who, long desirous of such an attendant, received her gladly into the royal apartments,
suffering her to retain her Christian creed: in return for this kindness, the captive lady
did good service, waiting faithfully both late and early on the Queen, and giving her instruction
in the French tongue. Moreover, by her gentleness, wisdom, and discretion, this Christian captive
won all hearts in the heathen court.

Now it happened that on Palm Sunday after these things the Queen gave birth to a lovely boy,
whom the learned heathen masters, because he was born in the season of flowers, named Fleur;
[more correctly 'Floire.'] and on that same Palm Sunday the Christian captive lady bore a daughter,
whom with her own hands she baptized, giving her the name of Blanchefleur.

At the birth of his son, King Fenis rejoiced, and made great festivities; also he commanded
that the infant should be nursed by a heathen, but brought up by the Christian captive, who,
thus being charged with both children, tended them with such loving care that she scarce knew
which was dearest to her, the King's son or her own daughter. So tended, the two children grew
to be the sweetest and loveliest ever seen, and such was the love that they bore each one to
the other that they could not endure to be parted. 

"Bunkum!"

"How could he?"

"Very convenient guessing, I'm sure!"

"It's no use telling us such utter fibs!"

"They're not fibs! How dare you say so!" flamed Merle.

"It's the absolute truth!" endorsed Mavis.

"Do you stick to that?"

"Of course we do."

"Then I shall have to call on Sybil to tell us something she saw
yesterday."

Sybil, who was red, nervous, and even more uncomfortable than Iva,
rose from her seat to make her accusation.

"I was in the garden yesterday after school, and I saw Merle come
back, hurry among the bushes, and climb in at the study window.

I
waited, and presently she came out again and scooted off as if she didn't want to meet anybody."
"O-- o-- oh! You didn't see me! I wasn't there! Was I, Mavis?" "Most certainly not. You were at
home all the time. I can prove that!"

"I think the thing proves itself!" said Iva.

"First of all, you're seen by a witness entering the study, where,
no doubt, the exam papers were spread out on the table, and then you
come to school primed with the questions.

There isn't a shadow of doubt." "Wait a minute!" said Mavis, rising with a very white face. "To
begin with, you've got to prove that it was Merle. One witness isn't enough." "Catie and Peggie
saw her down the drive. They told me so." "What time was it?"

"About five o'clock." "She was practising at home then. I can bring witnesses to prove that. Besides,
if she had really seen the questions, do you think she'd have been
silly enough to tell them to you before the exam?"

The girls looked puzzled at that, but Nesta murmured that Merle was
silly enough for anything.

"As she's one of the monitresses, we thought we ought to give her
a chance to clear herself before we told Miss Mitchell," said Iva.

"She can clear herself and she will.

It's not fair to condemn her like this. You must give her time to bring her own witnesses. I ask
you all, is it like Merle to do such a thing?" "Well, no, it certainly
isn't like either of you.

That's
what's surprised us so much." "You feel you can't be sure of anybody,"
added Aubrey.

The boarders'tea-gong, sounding at that moment, brought the meeting to an unsatisfactory conclusion.
The Ramsays hurried home, bubbling over with indignation, to pour
their woes into Mother's sympathetic ear, and were highly put out
to find the drawing-room full of callers, and to be expected to hand
tea-cups and make pleasant conversation instead of retailing their
grievances.

They beat a retreat as soon as they possibly could, and, for fear
of being asked to play or sing for the benefit of visitors, deemed
it wise to escape into the garden.

"We'll sit in the summer-house, only I must have my jersey," declared Merle, catching up the
garment in question from its peg in the hall, and pulling it on.

"I want some place where I can explode. This is just the beastliest
thing that's ever happened to me in all my life."

"I can't understand it!" puzzled Mavis, with her forehead in wrinkles.

Merle was stumping along the path with her hands in the pockets of her jersey. "Why should they accuse
me, of all people in the world, of climbing in through the study window? Sybil must have been
dreaming. She's an idiot of a girl. She'd imagine anything from a ghost to a burglar. What
are we going to do about it? I wish to goodness they would tell Miss
Mitchell! I'd rather she knew.

I've a jolly good mind to go and tell her myself. Then I should have first innings and she'd
hear our side of it. Hello! There's Clive."

It was that lively young gentleman who came walking along the garden wall and took a flying
leap on to the path, just avoiding one of Tom's best flower-beds. "There's a whole tribe of ladies in the
drawing-room!" he volunteered. "I carried my tea into the summer-house!

You won't catch me'doing the polite'if I can help it. Rather not!

Have you bunked too? I don't blame you. You're looking down in the
mouth, both of you!

Exams gone wrong this afternoon? Shall I tell your fortunes again?"
"Your precious fortune has got us into a great deal of trouble,"
answered Merle.

"How did you manage to guess those questions?

They were actually in our papers!" Clive pulled his face into a variety of grimaces. "Ah! Wouldn't
you just like to know!" he retorted. "Perhaps I keep a familiar spirit, or perhaps I read things in
the stars. I prophesy you'll fail in all the rest of your exams! There!" "You young wretch!"
cried Merle, chasing him down the path as he fled.

She took her hands from her pockets to catch hold of him, and as she did so out flew a penknife
on to the grass. Clive pounced upon it immediately and picked it up.

"I've been looking for this everywhere!" he declared. "How did it get inside my pocket?" asked
Merle. "I never put it there!" "Clive!" exclaimed Mavis, with a sudden flash of intuition.
"Did you wear Merle's jersey yesterday? I remember she found it wet. I verily believe you dressed
up in her clothes and went to school."

For answer Clive burst into fits of laughter.

"Oh, it was topping!" he hinnied. "I stuck on her skirt and jersey and tam
o'shanter and took in everybody.

  I walked down the street, and up the drive to
  the school door, and prowled round the garden.

There was a window open, so in I went and found exam questions all
over the table.

I thought I'd rag you about them!" "You atrocious imp! Look here! You don't know what a scrape you've
got us into.

You'll just have to own up and get us out of it again, that's all!"

Irresponsible Clive was full of thoughtless mischief, and it was
a long time before the girls could get him to see the serious side
of his escapade, and realise what an exceedingly grave charge had
been brought against their honour.

In the end, by dint of scolding, entreaty, coercion, and even bribery, they succeeded in persuading
him to come along with them to'The Moorings,'where they asked for Miss Mitchell, and told her
the whole story.

"I'm extremely glad to know," she said, looking hard at Clive.

"The fact is I was deceived myself.

He's very like you, Merle!

I happened to see him climbing out of the window, and I certainly thought I recognised you. I've felt
upset all day about it. I couldn't understand your doing such a thing."
"Will you explain to the boarders, please!

I hate
them to think me a sneak." "I'll make that all right."

"And about those exam questions-- Mavis and I wouldn't have dreamt of looking them up beforehand,
and I don't suppose we should have known them. Wouldn't it be fairer just to cross them off in
our papers and not count them? We'd much rather you did." "Yes, it's the only thing to be done."
Clive, much subdued, blurted out a kind of apology before he left,
which Miss Mitchell accepted with dignity.

Perhaps she did not think it good for him to forgive him too easily. His evil prophecies about the
exams were fortunately not fulfilled, for his cousins, though they
did not score brilliant successes, just managed to scrape through
without any failures.

The Fifth form, when they heard the true facts of the story, repented their hasty court of justice
and made handsome amends. "It doesn't matter!" said Merle. "You were quite right if you thought we'd
been cheating. I should pull anybody else up myself, fast enough. It must have been the acting
we did at Christmas that put the idea into Clive's idiotic young head. He was dressed up as a
girl then, and rather fancied himself. He really is the limit."

"We shall always be a little uncertain now which is you and which is your cousin!" laughed
Iva. "Oh, he won't do it again! We've put him on his honour, and I don't think he'd break his word."
CHAPTER XIII The Kittiwake The great Easter secret, which Merle had
surprised and preserved with so much difficulty, was out at last.

Clive's father and mother were coming to Devonshire for a holiday;
they had taken rooms at a farm in Chagmouth, and they had not only
arranged for their own son to join them, but they had also asked Mavis
and Merle to be their visitors.

The girls thought that no invitation could have been more delightfully
acceptable.

They adored Chagmouth, and the Saturdays they managed to spend there
were always red-letter days, so the prospect of three whole weeks
in this El Dorado sent their spirits up to fizzing-over point.

"Bevis will be at Grimbal's Farm!" "And Tudor will be at home!" "The Castletons are expecting Morland
and Claudia!"

"And, of course, Fay will be there, and Tattie, and the Colvilles!"
"Goody!

What a lovely tribe of us to go out picnics!"

"We'll have the time of our lives!"

Burswood Farm, where Mr. and Mrs. Percy Tremayne had taken rooms, was on the hillside above Chagmouth.
It was a delightful spot, with that airy feeling about it that comes
from looking down upon your neighbours'chimneys.

"I wouldn't live in Chagmouth, not if you paid me hundreds a year!"
declared Mrs. Treasure, their landlady.

"Once I'm up here, here I stay! I've not been in the town for over six months. I go on Sundays to
the little chapel close by, and if I want shops we get out the gig
and drive into Kilvan or Durracombe.

It isn't worth the climb back from Chagmouth. I carried William up when he was a baby, and
it nearly killed me.

I set him down in his cradle and I said:'There, my boy! I don't go down to Chagmouth again till you
can walk back yourself!'And I didn't! He was three years old before I went-- even to the post office.
How do I manage about stamps?

Why, the postman brings them for me and takes my letters.

The grocers'carts come round from Kilvan, and the butcher calls once
a week, and what can you want more?

I say
when I've got a nice place like this to live in I'll stay here, and
not worry myself with climbing up and down hill."

Though Mavis and Merle might not hold with Mrs. Treasure's depreciation
of Chagmouth, they thoroughly agreed with her eulogy of Burswood.

There was a view of the sea from the farm, and it had an old-fashioned
garden with beehives and hedges of fuchsia and blue veronica, and
at the back there was a small fir wood, with clumps of primroses and
opening bluebells.

The girls christened it'Elfland.'"You can almost see the fairies here," said Mavis. "Why is it
that some places feel so much more romantic than others?" "Because you're in the right mood, I
suppose. This is almost as nice as Blackthorn Bower." "Not quite. Nothing can ever come up to that!
When Bevis gets The Warren he's going to build up the Bower again." "Why doesn't he do it now?
The Glyn Williams would let him if he wanted. It's his property." "He wouldn't care to ask them; especially
after what happened there between him and Tudor." "They've forgotten that, surely!" "Well, I sympathise
with Bevis.

He doesn't care to interfere with anything until The Warren is really
his own.

I think he feels they'd laugh at the Bower, and so they would!"

"It's not in their line, of course."

However much we may love old and familiar scenes, there is always
a novelty in something new, and the bird's-eye aspect of Chagmouth
was attractive, especially to those whose young limbs did not mind
the climb.

Mr. and Mrs. Percy Tremayne were most enthusiastic about their quarters.

They were charming people, and ready to fall in with the young folk's
plans and give them a thoroughly happy holiday.

They had brought a motor-bicycle and side-car, and took some excursions round the neighbourhood,
going over often to Durracombe to see Dr. and Mrs. Tremayne, glad to have the opportunity of a private
chat with them while their lively son was safely picnicking with
Mavis and Merle.

Picnics were the established order of the day. The girls declared that Society at Chagmouth this
Easter began with a big S. The Castletons were a host in themselves. They were all at home, and
all equally fascinating. Musical Mavis attached herself to Claudia with a great admiration, and
Merle found a devoted knight in ten-year-old Madox, who clung to her with the persistency of
a chestnut burr, chiefly because she had the charity to answer his perpetual
questions.

"The interrogation mark," as he was called by his own family, was a typical Castleton, and most
cherubic of countenance, though his curls had been sheared in deference
to school, spoiling him, so his father declared, for artistic purposes.

He was a mixture of mischief and romance, and Merle, who accepted
his temporary allegiance, never quite knew whether his embraces were
marks of genuine affection or were designed for the chance of dropping
pebbles down her back.

Some delightful friends of the Castletons were also spending a holiday in rooms at Chagmouth--
Miss Lindsay, an artist, and Lorraine Forrester, a chum of Claudia's, both of whom were sketching
the quaint streets and the quay and the harbour with the wildest
enthusiasm.

Morland had also taken a sudden fancy for painting, and insisted upon going out with them daily, producing
some quite pretty little impressionistic pictures, with a touch of his father's style about
them. In Morland the family talent ran high but never rose to genius. His touch on the piano
was perfect. He scribbled poems in private. His achievements, however, in either music, art, or
poetry were insufficient to justify taking one of them for a vocation.

"I'd rather make him a chimney-sweep!" declared Mr. Castleton eloquently. "The public nowadays
don't appreciate pictures!

They'll look at them in galleries, especially when the admission
is free, but you can't get them to buy.

They hang their drawing-rooms with cheap prints instead of water-colours, and go to the photographers
instead of the portrait-painter.

If you can design something to advertise mustard or cocoa you may
make a little money, but not by pure art!

It's
as dead as the ancient Greeks. This is a commercial age. Music's
as bad.

Your pianists are glad to take posts to play at the cinemas!

I wish Claudia success; but her training is the business of the college, not mine, and they'll
have to bring her out.

I've nothing to do with it.

No; Morland must realise he's living in the twentieth century, and
has to earn his bread and butter.

Art doesn't pay, and that's the fact! Have it as a hobby if you wish, but don't depend upon it!"
So Morland, who, like many young fellows of artistic calibre, had
a general affection for the muses but no very marked vocation for
anything, had been pitchforked into engineering, and was making quite
tolerable progress, and would possibly support himself later on, but
always with the feeling that life was commonplace and unromantic,
and that a splendid vision had been somewhere just round the corner,
only unfortunately missed.

He allowed his artistic temperament to run loose during the holidays. He would go up to Bella Vista
and play for hours on the Macleods'new grand piano, improvising beautiful airs, and sending
Fay into raptures. "Why don't you write them down right away?" she demanded.
"What's the use? No one would publish them if I did. The publishers
are fed up with young composers wanting a hearing. I've made up my
mind to be just an amateur-- nothing more." "I'm not sure," ventured
Mrs. Macleod, "whether you won't have the best of it.

After all,'amateur'means'lover,'and the art and the music that you
pursue for pure pleasure will be more to you than what you might have
had to produce for the sake of bread and butter.

Why must our standard in these things always be the commercial one,'does it pay?'The fact of making
it pay often degrades it. My theory is that a man can have his business, and love his hobby just
as he loves his wife, without turning it into L s. d. Look at my husband!
In his own office there isn't any one in America knows more about motor
fittings, but once outside the office his heart and soul is in painting.
I believe he's a happier man for doing both!"

"Do you really think so? It cheers me up! When I'm a full-blown engineer, perhaps I'll make enough
to buy a grand piano at any rate. That's one way of looking at it. It's awfully kind of you
to let me come here and thump away on yours." "We enjoy having you, so use it whenever you like.
It's always absolutely at your disposal." Morland was not the only one of the party who was amusing
his leisure hours. Bevis also had hobbies.

He had taken up photography, had turned an attic at Grimbal's Farm into
a dark room, and was trying many experiments. Moreover, his lawyers had
at last yielded to his urgent entreaties and had allowed him to buy
a small sailing yacht.

She was not a racing craft, or remarkably smart in any way, but she was his own, and the joy of
possession was supreme. He rechristened her The Kittiwake, painting in her new name with much satisfaction,
and he made trial trips in her along the coast as far as Port Sennen.
He was extremely anxious to take Mavis and Merle and Clive with him,
but that was strictly prohibited by Mrs. Tremayne, who would not allow
either her son or her visitors to venture.

"It's too big a risk, and I know what Clive is! Young Talland can swim like a fish if he upsets
his yacht, but you can't!" "We can swim!" protested Merle.

"A little,
close by the shore, I daresay, but that's nothing if you're plunged
into deep water.

I can't take the responsibility of letting you go.

Never mind! We'll make up a party one day and take a motor-boat with a proper experienced boatman.
Young Talland can join us then if he likes." Mavis and Merle were disappointed almost to
the point of tears. They had duly admired The Kittiwake in the harbour, and they simply longed
to go on board. It seemed so particularly tempting when they had such a cordial invitation, and
so aggravating to be obliged to decline.

"Cousin Nora's very nervous," urged Mavis in extenuation. "She'd be afraid of our being drowned
if we went on a duck-pond." Bevis passed over the slur on his seamanship.
"It's all right!" he answered quietly, but there was a certain set
obstinate look about his mouth which the girls knew well, and which
meant that he intended if possible to get his own way, though he said
nothing more at the time.

It was perhaps
as well for everybody's peace of mind that he should not take Clive boating,
for the boy was venturesome and mischievous, and rather out of hand except when
his father was by. He often made the girls'hair almost stand on end
by his pranks at the verge of the cliffs, and was sometimes the cause
of considerable bad language among the sailors when he interfered with
their nets or tar-pots down on the quay. It was a relief to Mavis and
Merle when Mr. Tremayne took him out in the side-car, and they knew
that for some hours at least they need not be responsible for his
behaviour. They were both fond of botany, and were enthusiastically
making collections of wild flowers to press for their holiday task.

Bevis was a good ally in this respect, and would often call in at
Burswood Farm with some uncommon specimen which he thought they had
not yet found for themselves.

He had
come on this errand one morning, and was helping Mavis to screw up
her pressing boards, when Mrs. Tremayne happened to mention the scarcity
of shells in the neighbourhood of Chagmouth.

"I've hardly found any!" she
remarked. "And I'm so annoyed, because it happens to be my particular
hobby. I'm collecting them. I suppose the coast is too rocky and
they get broken. They're always very local things." "There's just one
place I know where you might find some," said Bevis. "It's a particular
patch of sand near Gurgan Point. I saw some beauties there a while
ago. I'll show you where it is with pleasure if you like." "Oh, thanks!
That would be delightful," beamed Mrs. Tremayne. "The girls and I could
go to-day if you can take us. My husband and Clive are out with the
motor-bike, so it's a splendid opportunity." "Let me see! The tide should
be just right this afternoon," agreed Bevis cheerfully. "Mavis and
Merle know the way to Gurgan Point.

If they'll take you there and down the path to the cove,
I'll come round in the yacht and meet you. Shall we say at three o'clock?"
"That would be exactly nice time after lunch." "Very well, I'll be
there."

Bevis went back
to Grimbal's Farm chuckling to himself, though he did not betray
the cause of his amusement to anybody.

He hunted
out a hamper and packed it with cups and saucers, a methylated spirit-lamp,
and other picnic requisites. On his way to the quay he stopped at
the confectioner's and bought cakes and fancy biscuits. He placed these comestibles
inside the hamper, and stowed it away in the locker of The Kittiwake.
At two o'clock he was out of the harbour, and was off in the direction
of Gurgan Point. Mavis and Merle and Cousin Nora, bearing baskets in
which to place shells, had a pleasant walk along the cliffs, and
descended the path to the trysting-place. They found Bevis waiting
for them in the cove. He had moored The Kittiwake to a buoy, and now
led the way over the sands to a sort of little peninsula that jutted out
into the sea. Here he had beached his dinghy. "This is the shell-bank.
You'll find heaps of them here!" he said.

Undoubtedly he had brought them to the right
place. There were shells in abundance, and of many different kinds,
delicate pink ones, tiny cowries, twisted wentletraps, scallops,
screw-shells, and some like mother-of-pearl. But said Lycoris again: 'Sir, so far as I can judge
by his mien and bearing, I deem that this youth grieves for the maiden Blanchefleur, who, now
shut up in the Admiral's high tower, spent two weeks with us in grievous sorrow of heart, bewailing
her sad fate in being thus sold away far from the youth she loved, and for whose sake she shed
many a tear and heaved many a sigh; and, as you may remember, sir, on leaving us this Blanchefleur
was bought by the Admiral for ten times her weight in gold. Now, to my thinking, this youth
is brother or lover to the maiden Blanchefleur.'

'No brother but her lover am I!' cried Fleur in glad surprise; then bethinking him how by such
heedless speech his life was put in peril, he cried again: 'No! no! I don't mean that; I am
brother and not lover to Blanchefleur. We are children of the same parents.'

'With all respect for your word, young sir, you contradict yourself in one breath,' said Daries
the host. 'Best speak the truth out plainly as, forsooth, I now do in declaring that it were
madness to come in quest of the maiden Blanchefleur; for, if the Admiral but hears of you,
you are a dead man.'

'Sir,' said Fleur, 'hear the whole truth--I am son to the King of Spain, and seek my stolen
Blanchefleur, without whom I cannot live; help me to her, and I will give you gold to your
heart's content, for ere another moon has waxed and waned, find her I must or die.'

'Life,' replied Daries, 'were ill lost for sake of a maiden, whom no aid of mine can make your
own, seeing that not, were the whole world to help you, could Blanchefleur be taken from the
Admiral, Lord of a hundred kings, whose city Babylon is a four-square of twenty miles, and
has for its defence walls full seventy feet in height, built of a stone so hard that no engine
of war from enemies without can pierce their stony front, and in these walls are three-and-thirty
doors of solid steel let in with cunning art, and high uplifted are seven hundred towers, the
loftiest ever seen by mortal eye, and these towers are guarded by seven hundred great lords,
each one of whom is great as any king; and if all these suffice not to prove the madness of
your quest, know that in the heart of the city a mighty castle stands; four stories high is
the castle, and on the fourth and topmost dwells your Blanchefleur, together with four other
noble damsels in a fair chamber, whose windows are cased in wood of the sweet-scented myrtle
tree, while its doors are formed of ebony that never yields to fire, and this ebony is overlaid
with beaten gold, on which are graven strange devices of words and scroll and flower-work,
and, because none but maidens dwell there, this tower is called the Maidens' Tower. In its
midst stands a crystal pillar, and from the pillar gushes forth a fountain, whose waters are
led on arches into every room, and so back into the pillar; and from the maidens' chamber a
winding stair leads to that wherein dwells the Admiral himself, and whither, for fourteen days'
service at a time, two maidens must wait morning and evening on their Lord, one with a fair
linen towel, the other with water in a golden bowl. Fierce and cruel beyond words is the watchman
of this tower, and any man who, without good and lawful cause, approaches it, he slays. Besides
all this, the tower day and night is guarded by sixteen furious men, who never close their
eyes in sleep; and there is yet another strange thing which you shall hear.

'Every springtide the Admiral takes to him a wife; and when the year is out, he calls to him
all the lords, kings, and princes of his realm, and in their presence casts off his wife, and
causes a knight to behead her, that no man may wed her after him; thus with the bitterness
of an early death does she pay for the fleeting honour of royal wedlock; and when his wife
is dead, the Admiral, with intent to replace her with another, summons the maidens who are
within the tower to appear before him in a garden, which trembling they enter, none coveting
the fatal honour of his choice. This garden, which walls of gold and lapis-lazuli enclose,
contains noble trees of every kind, so that in it may be found at all seasons every fruit known
to mankind; precious spices also abound, such as ginger, cinnamon, balm, cloves, nutmeg, and
mace; all which, together with the scent of flowers and the song of birds, makes of this garden
a very earthly paradise. Nam si pietatem respicias, it is to be feared that, considering she is
a Frenchwoman, a nun, and moreover a fugitive nun, about whose chastity there has been considerable
question, the Prince has got out of the frying-pan into the fire.

'Beneath this tree the Admiral, surrounded by his lords, takes his seat; and when seated, he
causes the maidens one by one to cross the stream before him; if they be good maidens and true
the water remains clear as crystal, but if it turn dark and turbid they may prepare for death.
This ordeal passed, the Admiral calls the maidens before him beneath the blooming tree, which
by magic art drops one of its rosy blossoms on her whom its Lord loves best, and who accordingly
becomes Queen for one fleeting year. Now, dear youth, bethink you what wise man would cheer
you on in the quest of Blanchefleur, seeing that, ere this very month be out, the Admiral will
hold this marriage feast with a new-made wife, who all say will be this Blanchefleur, whose
loveliness has won his heart? Moreover, for some time past, it is she and Clarissa, her companion,
who have been called to wait on their Lord, morning and evening, with the linen towel and the
golden bowl; for which cause they live in daily terror of being chosen, the one or other, to
be his crowned victim.'

'Oh good mine host!' cried Fleur, goaded to madness by what he heard, 'help me with your counsel
how to act. My Blanchefleur will I claim within that garden, for she is mine, and mine alone.
What if I die? Death for her sake is sweet, as it but sends me on before to that fair paradise
whither her soul will follow mine, to dwell for ever amid the flowers.'

'Young man,' said the host, 'by your readiness to brave all perils--nay, even death itself--for
sake of your dear love, I see that you are steadfast of purpose; and therefore, though perilling
my own life thereby, I will give you counsel which, if followed, shall not turn to your hurt.'
So saying, Daries took Fleur aside, and in secret unfolded to him a plan, which Fleur accepting
with grateful heart followed out in such wise as the coming chapter will record.

Chapter VI

Arising betimes next day, Fleur, as instructed by his host, arrayed himself with great magnificence,
and in this bravery of attire started for the Maidens' Tower. When come there, he set with
great seeming earnestness and diligence to measuring the tower's dimensions of height, depth,
length, and breadth; soon, however, his business was rudely interrupted by the watchman, who,
catching sight of this measuring stranger, shouted at him for a spy, asking by what right or
by whose leave he came there to meddle with the tower of the Lord High Admiral of Babylon.

Unabashed by this rough reception, Fleur replied in easy, careless phrase: 'Friend, the shape
and form of your tower please me so well that I am taking their dimensions, with intent, on
returning to my own land, of building me such a tower to be my treasure-house; and taking this
one of yours to be used for the like purpose, I would fain seek admittance to examine it within
as well as without, which admittance might indeed be granted to me without fear by you and
your Lord, seeing that I am wealthier than the two of you put together.'

'In mistrusting this man I erred,' thought the watchman; 'for, indeed, such rich attire would
ill become a spy.' So, after putting some searching questions to test his quality, the watchman,
eased of doubt by the ready answers he received, invited the stranger to step into his house
and play a game of chess; and when Fleur, accepting the challenge and invitation, was come
in, his host and opponent said, 'Now, sir, say what shall be the stakes?'

'A hundred byzants a side,' said Fleur.

'Done with you!' cried the host; and when, at his call, a chess-board of ebony and ivory was
brought, the two sate down to play.

Now Fleur wore upon his finger that priceless ring, his mother's parting gift, and in playing
took heed to keep its gem turned outwards towards his opponent, who, seeing, coveted the jewel;
and by keeping his eye on it and off the board, speedily lost the game, and with it, to his
fury, the double stakes; but Fleur, forewarned by the friendly Daries that his antagonist's
greed of gain equalled his love of chess, refused to take the winnings, and was accordingly
invited by the grateful loser to come and play a return match on the morrow. Fleur accepted
the challenge, and next day staking two hundred byzants against as many on the watchman's side,
he again contrived, by help of the ring, to win the game and stakes, and as before handed over
the latter to his antagonist, who, equally amazed and delighted by such unwonted liberality,
declared himself ready to perform any service for so generous a player. Next day the stakes
rose to four hundred byzants on either side, and were won by Fleur, who promptly relieved the
horror of his host at such heavy loss by handing over to him the entire eight hundred. Overcome
by such liberality, the watchman invited his noble opponent to a collation in his chamber on
the following day; and when Fleur thus bidden appeared, he brought with him his splendid drinking-cup,
and placed it on the board before him.

The watchman, unable to keep his eyes off the cup, so greatly did he admire it, offered, if
his guest would play him for it, to stake a thousand byzants on his side.

'Sell or game away the cup I may not,' replied Fleur; 'but for help in the time of need I will
freely give it.'

Then, overcome by greed of so goodly a gift, the watchman swore to Fleur that he would be his
man, and do service good and true, whensoever and howsoever he might be called on. 

Once arrived at Duiveland, they could more easily cross the intervening creek to Schouwen, which
was not so deep and only half as wide, so that a force thus, sent
through these dangerous shallows, might take possession of Duiveland
and lay siege to Zierickzee, in the very teeth of the Zealand fleet,
which would be unable to sail near enough to intercept their passage.

The Commander determined that the enterprise should be attempted. It was not a novelty, because
Mondragon, as we have seen, had already most brilliantly conducted a very similar expedition.
The present was, however, a much more daring scheme.

The other exploit, although sufficiently hazardous, and entirely,
successful, had been a victory gained over the sea alone.

It had been a surprise, and had been effected without any opposition from human enemies. Here,
however, they were to deal, not only with the ocean and darkness, but with a watchful and determined
foe. The Zealanders were aware that the enterprise was in contemplation, and their vessels lay about
the contiguous waters in considerable force. Nevertheless, the determination of the Grand Commander
was hailed with enthusiasm by his troops. Having satisfied himself by personal experiment
that the enterprise was possible, and that therefore his brave soldiers
could accomplish it, he decided that the glory of the achievement
should be fairly shared, as before, among the different nations which
served the King.

After completing his preparations, Requesens came to Tholen, at which rendezvous were assembled
three thousand infantry, partly Spaniards, partly Germans, partly Walloons. Besides these,
a picked corps of two hundred sappers and miners was to accompany
the expedition, in order that no time might be lost in fortifying
themselves as soon as they had seized possession of Schouwen.

Four hundred mounted troopers were, moreover, stationed in the town of Tholen, while the little
fleet, which had been prepared at Antwerp; lay near that city ready to co-operate with the
land force as soon as they, should complete their enterprise. The Grand Commander now divided
the whole force into two parts: One half was to remain in the boats, under the command of Mondragon;
the other half, accompanied by the two hundred pioneers, were to
wade through the sea from Philipsland to Duiveland and Schouwen.

Each soldier of this detachment was provided with a pair of shoes, two pounds of powder, and
rations for three days in a canvas bag suspended at his neck. The leader of this expedition
was Don Osorio d'Ulloa, an officer distinguished for his experience
and bravery.

On the night selected for the enterprise, that of the 27th September, the moon was a day old
in its fourth quarter, and rose a little before twelve. It was low water at between four and
five in the morning. The Grand Commander, at the appointed hour of midnight, crossed to Philipsland,
and stood on the shore to watch the setting forth of the little army. He addressed a short harangue
to them, in which he skillfully struck the chords of Spanish chivalry, and the national love of
glory, and was answered with loud and enthusiastic cheers. Don Osorio d'Ulloa then stripped
and plunged into the sea immediately after the guides. He was followed by the Spaniards, after
whom came the Germans and then the Walloons. The two hundred sappers and miners came next,
and Don Gabriel Peralta, with his Spanish company; brought up the rear. It was a wild night.
Incessant lightning, alternately revealed and obscured the progress of the midnight march through
the black waters, as the anxious Commander watched the expedition from the shore, but the soldiers
were quickly swallowed up in the gloom.

As they advanced cautiously, two by two, the daring adventurers found themselves soon nearly up
to their necks in the waves, while so narrow was the submerged bank along which they were
marching, that a misstep to the right or left was fatal. Luckless
individuals repeatedly sank to rise no more.

Meantime, as the sickly light, of the waning moon came forth at intervals through the stormy
clouds the soldiers could plainly perceive the files of Zealand vessels
through which they were to march, and which were anchored as close
to the flat as the water would allow.

Some had recklessly stranded themselves, in their eagerness to interrupt the passage, of the
troops, and the artillery played unceasingly from the larger vessels.

Discharges of musketry came continually from all, but the fitful lightning rendered the aim difficult
and the fire comparatively harmless while the Spaniards were, moreover,
protected, as to a large part of their bodies, by the water in which
they were immersed.

At times; they halted for breath, or to engage in fierce skirmishes with their nearest assailants.
Standing breast-high in the waves, and surrounded at intervals by total darkness, they were yet
able to pour an occasional well-directed volley into the hostile ranks. The Zealanders, however,
did, not assail them with fire-arms alone. They transfixed some with their fatal harpoons;
they dragged others from the path with boathooks; they beat out the
brains of others with heavy flails.

Many were the mortal duels thus fought in the darkness, and, as it were, in the bottom of the
sea; many were the deeds of audacity which no eye was to mark save
those by whom they were achieved.

Still, in spite of all impediments and losses, the Spaniards steadily advanced. If other arms proved
less available, they were attached by the fierce taunts and invectives of their often invisible
foes who reviled them as water-dogs, fetching and carrying for a
master who despised them; as mercenaries who coined their blood for
gold, and were employed by tyrants for the basest uses.

If stung by these mocking voices, they turned in the darkness to
chastise their unseen tormentors, they were certain to be trampled
upon by their comrades, and to be pushed from their narrow pathway
into the depths of the sea.

Thus many perished.

The night wore on, and the adventurers still fought it out manfully,
but very slowly, the main body of Spaniards, Germans, and Walloons,
soon after daylight, reaching the opposite shore, having sustained
considerable losses, but in perfect order.

The pioneers were not so fortunate. The tide rose over them before they could effect their passage,
and swept nearly every one away. The rearguard, under Peralta, not surprised, like the pioneers,
in the middle of their passage, by the rising tide, but prevented, before it was too late; from
advancing far beyond the shore from which they had departed were fortunately enabled to retrace
their steps.

Don Osorio, at the head of the successful adventurers, now effected
his landing upon Duiveland.

Reposing themselves but for an instant after this unparalleled march through the water, of more
than six hours, they took a slight refreshment, prayed to the Virgin Mary and to Saint James,
and then prepared to meet their new enemies on land. Ten companies of French, Scotch, and English
auxiliaries lay in Duiveland, under the command of Charles Van Boisot.

Strange to relate, by an inexplicable accident, or by treason, that
general was slain by his own soldiers, at the moment when the royal
troops landed.

The panic created by this event became intense, as the enemy rose suddenly, as it were, out
of the depths of the ocean to attack them.

They magnified the numbers of their assailants, and fled terror-stricken in every direction.
Same swam to the Zealand vessels which lay in the neighbourhood;
others took refuge in the forts which had been constructed on the
island; but these were soon carried by the Spaniards, and the conquest
of Duiveland was effected.

The enterprise was not yet completed, but the remainder was less difficult and not nearly so hazardous,
for the creek which separated Duiveland from Schouwen was much narrower than the estuary which
they had just traversed.

It was less than a league in width, but so encumbered by rushes and
briers that, although difficult to wade, it was not navigable for
vessels of any kind.

This part of the expedition was accomplished with equal resolution, so that, after a few hours'delay,
the soldiers stood upon the much-coveted island of Schouwen.

Five companies of states'troops, placed to oppose their landing, fled in the most cowardly
manner at the first discharge of the Spanish muskets, and took refuge in the city of Zierickzee,
which was soon afterwards beleaguered.

The troops has been disembarked upon Duiveland from the armada, which had made its way to the
scene of action, after having received, by signal, information that
the expedition through the water had been successful.

Brouwershaven, on the northern side of Schouwen, was immediately
reduced, but Bommenede resisted till the 25th of October, when it
was at last carried by assault, and delivered over to fire and sword.

Of the whole population and garrison not twenty were left alive.

Siege was then laid to Zierickzee, and Colonel Mondragon was left in charge of the operations. Requesens
himself came to Schouwen to give directions concerning this important
enterprise.

Chiapin Vitelli also came thither in the middle of the winter, and was so much injured by a fall
from his litter, while making the tour of the island, that he died on shipboard during his return
to Antwerp. This officer had gained his laurels upon more than one occasion, his conduct in the
important action near Mons, in which the Huguenot force under Genlis was defeated, having been
particularly creditable. He was of a distinguished Umbrian family, and had passed his life
in camps, few of the generals who had accompanied Alva to the Netherlands
being better known or more odious to the inhabitants.

He was equally distinguished for his courage, his cruelty, and his corpulence. The last characteristic
was so remarkable that he was almost monstrous in his personal appearance.

His protuberant stomach was always supported in a bandage suspended from his neck, yet in spite
of this enormous impediment, he was personally active on the battle-field,
and performed more service, not only as a commander but as a subaltern,
than many a younger and lighter man.

The siege of Zierickzee was protracted till the following June, the city holding out with firmness.
Want of funds caused the operations to be, conducted with languor, but the same cause prevented
the Prince from accomplishing its relief. Thus the expedition from Philipsland, the most brilliant
military exploit of the whole war, was attended with important results. The communication between
Walcheren and the rest of Zealand was interrupted; the province cut in two; a foothold on the
ocean; for a brief interval at least, acquired by Spain.

The Prince was inexpressibly chagrined by these circumstances, and felt that the moment had arrived
when all honorable means were to be employed to obtain foreign assistance. The Hollanders and
Zealanders had fought the battles of freedom alone hitherto, and had fought them well, but
poverty was fast rendering them incapable of sustaining much longer the unequal conflict. Offers
of men, whose wages the states were to furnish, were refused; as worse than fruitless. Henry
of Navarre, who perhaps deemed it possible to acquire the sovereignty of the provinces by so barren
a benefit, was willing to send two or three thousand men, but not at his own expense. The proposition
was respectfully declined.

The Prince and his little country, were all alone.

"Even if we should not only see ourselves deserted by all the world, but also all the world against
us," he said, "we should not cease to defend ourselves even to the last man. Knowing the justice
of our cause, we repose, entirely in the mercy of God." He determined, however, once more to have
recourse to the powerful of the earth, being disposed to test the truth of his celebrated observation,
that "there would be no lack of suitors for the bride that he had to bestow." It was necessary,
in short, to look the great question of formally renouncing Philip
directly in the face.

Hitherto the fiction of allegiance had been preserved, and, even by the enemies of the Prince,
it, was admitted: that it had been retained with no disloyal intent.

The time however, had come when it was necessary. to throw off allegiance, provided another
could be found strong enough and frank enough to accept the authority which Philip had forfeited.
The question was, naturally, between France and England; unless the
provinces could effect their re-admission into the body of the Germanic
Empire.

Already in June the Prince had laid the proposition formally before the states, "whether they
should not negotiate with the Empire on the subject of their admission,
with maintenance of their own constitutions," but it was understood
that this plan was not to be carried out, if the protection of the
Empire could be obtained under easier conditions.

Nothing came of the proposition at that time. The nobles and the deputies of South Holland now voted,
in the beginning of the ensuing month, "that it was their duty to abandon the King, as a tyrant
who sought to oppress and destroy his subjects; and that it behooved
them to seek another protector."

This was while the Breda negotiations were still pending, but when
their inevitable result was very visible.

There was still a reluctance at taking the last and decisive step in the rebellion, so that
the semblance of loyalty was still retained; that ancient scabbard, in which the sword might
yet one day be sheathed. The proposition was not adopted at the diet. A committee of nine was
merely appointed to deliberate with the Prince upon the "means of obtaining foreign assistance,
without accepting foreign authority, or severing their connexion with his Majesty." The estates
were, however, summoned a few months later, by the Prince, to deliberate on this important
matter at Rotterdam. On the 1st of October he then formally proposed, either to make terms with
their enemy, and that the sooner the better, or else, once for all, to separate entirely from
the King of Spain, and to change their sovereign, in order, with
the assistance and under protection of another Christian potentate,
to maintain the provinces against their enemies.

Orange, moreover, expressed the opinion that upon so important a subject it was decidedly
incumbent upon them all to take the sense of the city governments. The members for the various
municipalities acquiesced in the propriety of this suggestion, and resolved to consult their
constituents, while the deputies of the nobility also desired to consult with their whole body.
After an adjournment of a few days, the diet again assembled at Delft,
and it was then unanimously resolved by the nobles and the cities,
"that they would forsake the King and seek foreign assistance; referring
the choice to the Prince, who, in regard to the government, was to
take the opinion of the estates."

Thus, the great step was taken, by which two little provinces declared
themselves independent of their ancient master.

That declaration, although taken in the midst of doubt and darkness,
was not destined to be cancelled, and the germ of a new and powerful
commonwealth was planted.

So little, however, did these republican fathers foresee their coming republic, that the resolution
to renounce one king was combined with a proposition to ask for the
authority of another.

It was not imagined that those two slender columns, which were all that had yet been raised.
of the future stately peristyle, would be strong enough to stand alone. The question now arose,
to what foreign power application should be made. But little hope was to be entertained from
Germany, a state which existed only in name, and France was still in a condition of religious
and intestine discord. The attitude of revolt maintained by the Duc d'Alencon seemed to make
it difficult and dangerous to enter into negotiations with a country where the civil wars
had assumed so complicated a character, that loyal and useful alliance could hardly be made with
any party. The Queen of England, on the other hand; dreaded the wrath of Philip, by which her
perpetual dangers from the side of Scotland would be aggravated, while she feared equally the
extension of French authority in the Netherlands, by which increase her neighbour would acquire
an overshadowing power. She was also ashamed openly to abandon the provinces to their fate, for
her realm was supposed to be a bulwark of the Protestant religion.

Afraid to affront Philip, afraid to refuse the suit of the Netherlands, afraid to concede as
aggrandizement to France, what course was open to the English Queen. That which, politically and
personally, she loved the best-- a course of barren coquetry. This the Prince of Orange foresaw;
and although not disposed to leave a stone unturned in his efforts
to find assistance for his country, he on the whole rather inclined
for France.

He, however, better than any man, knew how little cause there was for sanguine expectation from
either source. Thus did
Fleur and Blanchefleur take their journey back again to Spain, and when they were come the
people received them with great joy, and crowned Fleur King in the place of his father Fenis,
and Blanchefleur they crowned as Queen, and so this happy pair lived on united in tender love
together to their hundredth year, and when Fleur was made King he embraced the Christian faith
of his Blanchefleur, and caused all his people to become Christians and receive baptism, and
soon after these things Fleur inherited the land of Hungary from his uncle, who died childless;
but to Fleur and his Queen Blanchefleur was born a daughter, Bertha by name, who became wife
to King Pepin of France, and mother of Charles, that great Emperor whose fame is known throughout
the world. They fixed upon a play, shared the cast among them, and held rehearsals
in the evenings. Mavis, Merle, and Muriel, the only day-girls on the
Committee, were furious.

"Where do we come in?" demanded Merle.

"It's
too cool to settle everything without consulting u