They had been stripped of all moral authority by persistent efforts to procure their indirect
repeal through contradictory enactments. They had been practically abrogated by the legislation
attending the organization of Utah, New Mexico, and Washington. If any vitality remained in
them it would have been taken away, in effect, by the new Territorial acts in the form originally
proposed to the Senate at the first session of the last Congress. It was manly and ingenuous,
as well as patriotic and just, to do this directly and plainly, and thus relieve the statute
book of an act which might be of possible future injury, but of no possible future benefit;
and the measure of its repeal was the final consummation and complete recognition of the principle
that no portion of the United States shall undertake through assumption of the powers of the
General Government to dictate the social institutions of any other portion.

The scope and effect of the language of repeal were not left in doubt. It was declared in terms
to be "the true intent and meaning of this act not to legislate slavery into any Territory
or State, nor to exclude it therefrom, but to leave the people thereof perfectly free to form
and regulate their domestic institutions in their own way, subject only to the Constitution
of the United States."

The measure could not be withstood upon its merits alone. It was attacked with violence on
the false or delusive pretext that it constituted a breach of faith. Never was objection more
utterly destitute of substantial justification. When before was it imagined by sensible men
that a regulative or declarative statute, whether enacted ten or forty years ago, is irrepealable;
that an act of Congress is above the Constitution? If, indeed, there were in the facts any
cause to impute bad faith, it would attach to those only who have never ceased, from the time
of the enactment of the restrictive provision to the present day, to denounce and condemn it;
who have constantly refused to complete it by needful supplementary legislation; who have spared
no exertion to deprive it of moral force; who have themselves again and again attempted its
repeal by the enactment of incompatible provisions, and who, by the inevitable reactionary
effect of their own violence on the subject, awakened the country to perception of the true
constitutional principle of leaving the matter involved to the discretion of the people of
the respective existing or incipient States.

It is not pretended that this principle or any other precludes the possibility of evils in
practice, disturbed, as political action is liable to be, by human passions. No form of government
is exempt from inconveniences; but in this case they are the result of the abuse, and not of
the legitimate exercise, of the powers reserved or conferred in the organization of a Territory.
They are not to be charged to the great principle of popular sovereignty. On the contrary,
they disappear before the intelligence and patriotism of the people, exerting through the ballot
box their peaceful and silent but irresistible power.

If the friends of the Constitution are to have another struggle, its enemies could not present
a more acceptable issue than that of a State whose constitution clearly embraces "a republican
form of government" being excluded from the Union because its domestic institutions may not
in all respects comport with the ideas of what is wise and expedient entertained in some other
State. Fresh from groundless imputations of breach of faith against others, men will commence
the agitation of this new question with indubitable violation of an express compact between
the independent sovereign powers of the United States and of the Republic of Texas, as well
as of the older and equally solemn compacts which assure the equality of all the States.

But deplorable as would be such a violation of compact in itself and in all its direct consequences,
that is the very least of the evils involved. When sectional agitators shall have succeeded
in forcing on this issue, can their pretensions fail to be met by counter pretensions? Will
not different States be compelled, respectively, to meet extremes with extremes? And if either
extreme carry its point, what is that so far forth but dissolution of the Union? If a new State,
formed from the territory of the United States, be absolutely excluded from admission therein,
that fact of itself constitutes the disruption of union between it and the other States. But
the process of dissolution could not stop there. Would not a sectional decision producing such
result by a majority of votes, either Northern or Southern, of necessity drive out the oppressed
and aggrieved minority and place in presence of each other two irreconcilably hostile confederations?

It is necessary to speak thus plainly of projects the offspring of that sectional agitation
now prevailing in some of the States, which are as impracticable as they are unconstitutional,
and which if persevered in must and will end calamitously. It is either disunion and civil
war or it is mere angry, idle, aimless disturbance of public peace and tranquillity. Disunion
for what? If the passionate rage of fanaticism and partisan spirit did not force the fact upon
our attention, it would be difficult to believe that any considerable portion of the people
of this enlightened country could have so surrendered themselves to a fanatical devotion to
the supposed interests of the relatively few Africans in the United States as totally to abandon
and disregard the interests of the 25,000,000 Americans; to trample under foot the injunctions
of moral and constitutional obligation, and to engage in plans of vindictive hostility against
those who are associated with them in the enjoyment of the common heritage of our national
institutions.

Nor is it hostility against their fellow-citizens of one section of the Union alone. The interests,
the honor, the duty, the peace, and the prosperity of the people of all sections are equally
involved and imperiled in this question. And are patriotic men in any part of the Union prepared
on such issue thus madly to invite all the consequences of the forfeiture of their constitutional
engagements? It is impossible. The storm of frenzy and faction must inevitably dash itself
in vain against the unshaken rock of the Constitution. I shall never doubt it. I know that
the Union is stronger a thousand times than all the wild and chimerical schemes of social change
which are generated one after another in the unstable minds of visionary sophists and interested
agitators. I rely confidently on the patriotism of the people, on the dignity and self-respect
of the States, on the wisdom of Congress, and, above all, on the continued gracious favor of
Almighty God to maintain against all enemies, whether at home or abroad, the sanctity of the
Constitution and the integrity of the Union.

***

State of the Union Address Franklin Pierce December 2, 1856

Fellow-Citizens of the Senate and of the House of Representatives:

The Constitution requires that the President shall from time to time not only recommend to
the consideration of Congress such measures as he may judge necessary and expedient, but also
that he shall give information to them of the state of the Union. To do this fully involves
exposition of all matters in the actual condition of the country, domestic or foreign, which
essentially concern the general welfare. While performing his constitutional duty in this respect,
the President does not speak merely to express personal convictions, but as the executive minister
of the Government, enabled by his position and called upon by his official obligations to scan
with an impartial eye the interests of the whole and of every part of the United States.

Of the condition of the domestic interests of the Union--its agriculture, mines, manufactures,
navigation, and commerce--it is necessary only to say that the internal prosperity of the country,
its continuous and steady advancement in wealth and population and in private as well as public
well-being, attest the wisdom of our institutions and the predominant spirit of intelligence
and patriotism which, notwithstanding occasional irregularities of opinion or action resulting
from popular freedom, has distinguished and characterized the people of America. In the brief
interval between the termination of the last and the commencement of the present session of
Congress the public mind has been occupied with the care of selecting for another constitutional
term the President and Vice-President of the United States.

The determination of the persons who are of right, or contingently, to preside over the administration
of the Government is under our system committed to the States and the people. We appeal to
them, by their voice pronounced in the forms of law, to call whomsoever they will to the high
post of Chief Magistrate.

And thus it is that as the Senators represent the respective States of the Union and the members
of the House of Representatives the several constituencies of each State, so the President
represents the aggregate population of the United States. Their election of him is the explicit
and solemn act of the sole sovereign authority of the Union.

It is impossible to misapprehend the great principles which by their recent political action
the people of the United States have sanctioned and announced.

They have asserted the constitutional equality of each and all of the States of the Union as
States: they have affirmed the constitutional equality of each and all of the citizens of the
United States as citizens, whatever their religion, wherever their birth or their residence;
they have maintained the inviolability of the constitutional rights of the different sections
of the Union, and they have proclaimed their devoted and unalterable attachment to the Union
and to the Constitution, as objects of interest superior to all subjects of local or sectional
controversy, as the safeguard of the rights of all, as the spirit and the essence of the liberty,
peace, and greatness of the Republic. In doing this they have at the same time emphatically
condemned the idea of organizing in these United States mere geographical parties, of marshaling
in hostile array toward each other the different parts of the country, North or South, East
or West.

Schemes of this nature, fraught with incalculable mischief, and which the considerate sense
of the people has rejected, could have had countenance in no part of the country had they not
been disguised by suggestions plausible in appearance, acting upon an excited state of the
public mind, induced by causes temporary in their character and, it is to be hoped, transient
in their influence.

Perfect liberty of association for political objects and the widest scope of discussion are
the received and ordinary conditions of government in our country. Our institutions, framed
in the spirit of confidence in the intelligence and integrity of the people, do not forbid
citizens, either individually or associated together, to attack by writing, speech, or any
other methods short of physical force the Constitution and the very existence of the Union.
Under the shelter of this great liberty, and protected by the laws and usages of the Government
they assail, associations have been formed in some of the States of individuals who, pretending
to seek only to prevent the spread of the institution of slavery into the present or future
inchoate States of the Union, are really inflamed with desire to change the domestic institutions
of existing States. To accomplish their objects they dedicate themselves to the odious task
of depreciating the government organization which stands in their way and of calumniating with
indiscriminate invective not only the citizens of particular States with whose laws they find
fault, but all others of their fellow citizens throughout the country who do not participate
with them in their assaults upon the Constitution, framed and adopted by our fathers, and claiming
for the privileges it has secured and the blessings it has conferred the steady support and
grateful reverence of their children. They seek an object which they well know to be a revolutionary
one. They are perfectly aware that the change in the relative condition of the white and black
races in the slaveholding States which they would promote is beyond their lawful authority;
that to them it is a foreign object; that it can not be effected by any peaceful instrumentality
of theirs; that for them and the States of which they are citizens the only path to its accomplishment
is through burning cities, and ravaged fields, and slaughtered populations, and all there is
most terrible in foreign complicated with civil and servile war; and that the first step in
the attempt is the forcible disruption of a country embracing in its broad bosom a degree of
liberty and an amount of individual and public prosperity to which there is no parallel in
history, and substituting in its place hostile governments, driven at once and inevitably into
mutual devastation and fratricidal carnage, transforming the now peaceful and felicitous brotherhood
into a vast permanent camp of armed men like the rival monarchies of Europe and Asia. Well
knowing that such, and such only, are the means and the consequences of their plans and purposes,
they endeavor to prepare the people of the United States for civil war by doing everything
in their power to deprive the Constitution and the laws of moral authority and to undermine
the fabric of the Union by appeals to passion and sectional prejudice, by indoctrinating its
people with reciprocal hatred, and by educating them to stand face to face as enemies, rather
than shoulder to shoulder as friends.

It is by the agency of such unwarrantable interference, foreign and domestic, that the minds
of many otherwise good citizens have been so inflamed into the passionate condemnation of the
domestic institutions of the Southern States as at length to pass insensibly to almost equally
passion late hostility toward their fellow-citizens of those States, and thus finally to fall
into temporary fellowship with the avowed and active enemies of the Constitution. Ardently
attached to liberty in the abstract, they do not stop to consider practically how the objects
they would attain can be accomplished, nor to reflect that, even if the evil were as great
as they deem it, they have no remedy to apply, and that it can be only aggravated by their
violence and unconstitutional action. A question which is one of the most difficult of all
the problems of social institution, political economy, and statesmanship they treat with unreasoning
intemperance of thought and language. Extremes beget extremes. Violent attack from the North
finds its inevitable consequence in the growth of a spirit of angry defiance at the South.
Thus in the progress of events we had reached that consummation, which the voice of the people
has now so pointedly rebuked, of the attempt of a portion of the States, by a sectional organization
and movement, to usurp the control of the Government of the United States.

I confidently believe that the great body of those who inconsiderately took this fatal step
are sincerely attached to the Constitution and the Union. They would upon deliberation shrink
with unaffected horror from any conscious act of disunion or civil war. But they have entered
into a path which leads nowhere unless it be to civil war and disunion, and which has no other
possible outlet. They have proceeded thus far in that direction in consequence of the successive
stages of their progress having consisted of a series of secondary issues, each of which professed
to be confined within constitutional and peaceful limits, but which attempted indirectly what
few men were willing to do directly; that is, to act aggressively against the constitutional
rights of nearly one-half of the thirty-one States.

In the long series of acts of indirect aggression, the first was the strenuous agitation by
citizens of the Northern States, in Congress and out of it, of the question of Negro emancipation
in the Southern States.

The second step in this path of evil consisted of acts of the people of the Northern States,
and in several instances of their governments, aimed to facilitate the escape of persons held
to service in the Southern States and to prevent their extradition when reclaimed according
to law and in virtue of express provisions of the Constitution. To promote this object, legislative
enactments and other means were adopted to take away or defeat rights which the Constitution
solemnly guaranteed. In order to nullify the then existing act of Congress concerning the extradition
of fugitives from service, laws were enacted in many States forbidding their officers, under
the severest penalties, to participate in the execution of any act of Congress whatever. In
this way that system of harmonious cooperation between the authorities of the United States
and of the several States, for the maintenance of their common institutions, which existed
in the early years of the Republic was destroyed; conflicts of jurisdiction came to be frequent,
and Congress found itself compelled, for the support of the Constitution and the vindication
of its power, to authorize the appointment of new officers charged with the execution of its
acts, as if they and the officers of the States were the ministers, respectively, of foreign
governments in a state of mutual hostility rather than fellow-magistrates of a common country
peacefully subsisting under the protection of one well-constituted Union. Thus here also aggression
was followed by reaction, and the attacks upon the Constitution at this point did but serve
to raise up new barriers for its defense and security.

The third stage of this unhappy sectional controversy was in connection with the organization
of Territorial governments and the admission of new States into the Union. When it was proposed
to admit the State of Maine, by separation of territory from that of Massachusetts, and the
State of Missouri, formed of a portion of the territory ceded by France to the United States,
representatives in Congress objected to the admission of the latter unless with conditions
suited to particular views of public policy. The imposition of such a condition was successfully
resisted; but at the same period the question was presented of imposing restrictions upon the
residue of the territory ceded by France. That question was for the time disposed of by the
adoption of a geographical line of limitation.

