Two blocks below he found one comparatively clear, but in terrible proximity to the conflagration.
Indeed, the houses were burning on each side, but the street seemed clear of flame. He thought
that by swiftly running they could get through. But Christine's strength was fast failing her,
and just as they reached the middle of the block a tall brick building fell across the street
before them! Thus their only path of escape was blocked by a blazing mass of ruins that it
would have been death to cross.

They seemed hemmed in on every side, and Dennis groaned in agony.

Christine looked for a moment at the impassable fiery barrier, then at Dennis, in whose face
and manner she read unutterable sympathy for herself, and the truth flashed upon her.

With a piercing shriek she fainted dead away in his arms.

CHAPTER XLIV

ON THE BEACH

In the situation of supreme peril described in the last chapter, Dennis stood a second helpless
and hopeless. Christine rested a heavy burden in his arms, happily unconscious.  Breathing
an agonized prayer to heaven, he looked around for any possibility of escape.  Just then an
express-wagon was driven furiously toward them, its driver seeking his way out by the same
path that Dennis had chosen.  As he reached them the man saw the hopeless obstruction, and
wheeled his horses.  As he did so, quick as thought, Dennis threw Christine into the bottom
of the wagon, and, clinging to it, climbed into it himself.  He turned her face downward from
the fire, and, covering his own, he crouched beside her, trusting all now to God.

The driver urged his horses toward the lake, believing that his only chance.  They tore away
through the blazing streets.  The poor man was soon swept from his seat and perished, but his
horses rushed madly on till they plunged into the lake.

At the sound of water Dennis lifted his head and gave a cry of joy. It seemed that the hand
of God had snatched them from death.  Gently he lifted Christine out upon the sands and commenced
bathing her face from the water that broke in spray at his feet.  She soon revived and looked
around.  In a voice full of awe and wonder she whispered, "Ah! there is another world and another
life, after all."

"Indeed there is, Miss Ludolph," said Dennis, supporting her on his arm and bending over her,
"but, thanks to a merciful Providence, you are still in this one."

"How is it?" she said, with a bewildered air. "I do not understand. The last I remember, we
were surrounded by fire, you were despairing, and it seemed that I died."

"You fainted, Miss Ludolph. But God as by a miracle brought us out of the furnace, and for
the present we are safe." After she had sufficiently rallied from her excessive exhaustion
and terror, he told her how they escaped.

"I see no God in it all," she said; "only a most fortunate opportunity, of which you, with
great nerve and presence of mind, availed yourself. To you alone, again and again this dreadful
night, I owe my life."

"God uses us as His instruments to do His will. The light will come to you by and by, and you
will learn a better wisdom."

"In this awful conflagration the light has come. On every side I see as in letters of fire,
'There is no God.' If it were otherwise these scenes would be impossible. And any being permitting
or causing the evils and crimes this dreadful night has witnessed, I shall fear and hate beyond
the power of language to express."

She uttered these words sitting on the sands with multitudes of others, her face (from which
Dennis had washed the dust and smoke) looking in the glare so wan and white that he feared,
with a sickening dread, that through exposure, terror, or some of the many dangers by which
they were surrounded, she might pass into the future world with all her unbelief and spiritual
darkness. He yearned over her with a solicitude and pity that he could not express. She seemed
so near--indeed he could feel her form tremble, as she kneeled beside her, and supported her
by his arm--and yet, in view of her faithless state, how widely were they separated! Should
any one of the many perils about them quench the little candle of her life, which even now
flickered faintly, where in the wide universe could he hope to meet her again? God can no doubt
console His children and make up to them every loss, but the passionate heart, with its intense
human love, clings to its idol none the less. Dennis saw that the fire would probably hem them
in on the beach for the remainder of the night and the following day. He determined therefore
in every way possible to beguile the weary, perilous hours, and, if she would permit it, to
lead her thoughts heavenward. Hence arose from time to time conversations, to which, with joy,
he found Christine no longer averse. Indeed, she often introduced them.

Chafing her hands, he said in accents of the deepest sympathy, "How I pity you, Miss Ludolph!
It must indeed be terrible to possess your thoughtful mind, to realize these scenes so keenly,
and yet have no faith in a Divine Friend. I cannot explain to you the mystery of evil--why
it came, or why it exists. Who can? I am but one of God's little children, and only know with
certainty that my Heavenly Father loves and will take care of me."

"How do you know it?" she asked, eagerly.

"In several ways. Mainly because I feel it."

"It all seems so vague and unreal," she sighed, dreamily. "There is nothing certain, assured.
There is no test by which I can at once know the truth."

"That does not prevent the truth from existing. That some are blind is no proof that color
does not exist."

"But how can you be sure there is a God? You never saw Him."

"I do not see the heat that scorches us, but I feel it, and know it exists."

"But I feel the heat the same as yourself, and I have no consciousness of a Divine Being."

"That does not take away my consciousness that He is my Saviour and Friend. As yet you are
spiritually dead. If you were physically dead, you would not feel the heat of this fire."

"Oh, it is all mystery--darkness," she cried, piteously.

The sun had now risen quite above the waters of the lake, but seen through the lurid smoke
which swept over its face, it seemed like one of the great red cinders that were continually
sailing over their heads. In the frightful glare, the transition from night to day had scarcely
been noted. The long, narrow beach was occupied by thousands of fugitives, who were hemmed
in on every side. On the south was the river, skirted with fire, while opposite, on the west,
the heat was almost intolerable; on the east were the cold waves of the lake, and on the north
a burning pier that they could not cross. Their only hope was to cling to that narrow line
where fire and water mingled, and with one element to fight the other. Here again was seen
the mingling of all classes which the streets and every place of refuge witnessed. Judges,
physicians, statesmen, clergymen, bankers, were jostled by roughs and thieves. The laborer
sat on the sand with his family, side by side with the millionaire and his household. The poor
debauched woman of the town moaned and shivered in her scant clothing, at a slight remove from
the most refined Christian lady. In the unparalleled disaster, all social distinctions were
lost, levelled like the beach on which the fugitives cowered. From some groups was heard the
voice of prayer; from others, bitter wailings and passionate cries for lost members of the
family; others had saved quantities of vile whiskey, if nothing else, and made the scene more
ghastly by orgies that seemed not of earth. Added to the liquor were the mad excitement and
recklessness which often seize the depraved classes on such occasions. They committed excesses
that cannot be mentioned-these drunken, howling, fighting wretches. Obscene epithets and words
fell around like blows. And yet all were so occupied with their own misfortunes, sufferings,
and danger, as scarcely to heed their neighbors, unless these became very violent.

Upon this heterogeneous mass of humanity the fire rained down almost as we imagine it to have
fallen upon the doomed cities of the plain, and the hot breath of the flames scorched the exposed
cheek and crisped even eyebrows and hair. Sparks, flakes, cinders, pieces of roof, and fiery
pebbles seemed to fill the air, and often cries and shrieks announced that furniture and bedding
which had been dragged thither, and even the clothing of women and children, were burning.
Added to all the other terrors of the scene was the presence of large numbers of horses and
cattle, snorting and plunging in their fright and pain.

But the sound that smote Dennis's heart with the deepest commiseration was the continuous wail
of helpless little children, many of them utterly separated from parents and friends, and in
the very agony of fear.

He greatly dreaded the effect of these upon Christine, knowing how, in the luxurious past,
she had been shielded from every rough experience. But she at length rallied into something
like composure. Her constitution was elastic and full of vitality, and after escaping from
immediate danger she again began to hope. Moreover, to a degree that even she could not understand,
his presence was a source of strength and courage, and her heart clung to him with desperate
earnestness, believing him the sole barrier against immediate death, and (what she dreaded
scarcely less) a lonely, wretched existence, should her life be spared.

Though he never lost sight of her for a moment, and kept continually wetting her hair and person,
he found time to render assistance to others, and, by carrying his hat full of water here and
there, extinguished many a dangerous spark. He also, again and again, snatched up little children
from under the trampling hoofs of frightened horses.

As she watched him, so self-forgetful and fearless, she realized more and more vividly that
he was sustained and animated by some mighty principle that she knew nothing of, and could
not understand. The impression grew upon her that he was right and she wrong. Though it all
remained in mystery and doubt, she could not resist the logic of true Christian action.

But as the day advanced the flames grew hotter, and their breath more withering. About noon
Dennis noticed that some shanties on the sand near them were in danger of catching fire and
perilling all in that vicinity. Therefore he said, "Miss Ludolph, stay here where I leave you
for a little time, so that I may know just where to find you."

"Oh, do not leave me!" she pleaded: "I have no one in the wide world to help me except you."

"I shall not be beyond call. You see those shanties there; if possible we must keep them from
burning, or the fire will come too near for safety." Then, starting forward, he cried, "Who
will volunteer to keep the fire back? All must see that if those buildings burn we shall be
in danger."

Several men stepped forward, and with hats and anything that would hold water they began to
wet the old rookeries. But the fiery storm swooped steadily down on them, and their efforts
were as futile as if they had tried to beat back the wind. Suddenly a mass of flame leaped
upon the buildings, and in a moment they were all ablaze.

"Into the lake, quick!" cried Dennis, and all rushed for the cool waters.

Lifting Christine from the sand, and passing his arm around her trembling, shivering form,
he plunged through the breakers, and the crowd pressed after him. Indeed they pushed him so
far out in the cold waves that he nearly lost his footing, and for a few moments Christine
lost hers altogether, and added her cries to those of the terror-stricken multitude. But pushing
in a little nearer the shore, he held her firmly and said with the confidence that again inspired
hope: "Courage, Miss Ludolph. With God's help I will save you yet."

Even as she clung to him in the water, she looked into his face. He was regarding her so kindly,
so pitifully, that a great and generous impulse, the richest, ripest fruit of her human love,
throbbed at her heart, and faltered from her lips--"Mr. Fleet, I am not worthy of this risk
on your part. If you will leave me you can save your own life, and your life is worth so much
more than mine!"

True and deep must have been the affection that could lead Christine Ludolph to say such words
to any human being. There was a time when, in her creed, all the world existed but to minister
to her. But she was not sorry to see the look of pained surprise which came into Dennis's face
and to hear him say, very sadly: "Miss Ludolph, I did not imagine that you could think me capable
of that. I had the good fortune to rescue Miss Brown last night, at greater peril than this,
and do you think I would leave you?"

"You are a true knight, Mr. Fleet," she said, humbly, "and the need or danger of every defenceless
woman is alike a sacred claim upon you."

Dennis was about to intimate that, though this was true in knightly creed, still among all
the women in the world there might be a preference, when a score of horses, driven before the
fire, and goaded by the burning cinders, rushed down the beach, into the water, right among
the human fugitives.

Again went up the cry of agony and terror. Some were no doubt stricken down not to rise again.
In the melee Dennis pushed out into deeper water, where the frantic animals could not plunge
upon him. A child floated near, and he snatched it up. As soon as the poor brutes became quiet,
clasping Christine with his right arm and holding up the child with the other, he waded into
shallow water.

The peril was now perhaps at its height, and all were obliged to wet their heads, to keep even
their hair from singeing. Those on the beach threw water on each other without cessation. Many
a choice bit of property--it might be a piano, or an express-wagon loaded with the richest
furs and driven to the beach as a place of fancied security--now caught fire, and added to
the heat and consternation.

Voice after voice joined in, some loud and strong, but others weak and trembling--the pitiful
cry of poor terror-stricken women to the only One who it seemed could help them in their bitter
extremity. Never before were those beautiful words sung in such accents of clinging, touching
faith. Its sweet cadence was heard above the roar of the flames and the breakers.

Christine could only cling weeping to Dennis.

When the hymn ceased, in harshest discord the voice of a half-drunken man grated on their ears.

"An' what in bloody blazes does yer Jasus burn us all up for, I'd like to know. Sure an' he's
no right to send us to hell before our time."

"Oh, hush! hush!" cried a dozen voices, shocked and pained.

"Divil a bit will I hush, sure; an' haven't I as good a right to have me say as that singin'
parson!"

"You are an Irishman, are you not?" said Dennis, now venturing out of the water.

"Yis! what have ye got to say agin it?" asked the man, belligerent at once.

"Did you ever know an Irishman refuse to do what a lady asked of him?"

"Faith no, and I niver will."

"Then this lady, who is sick and suffering, asks you to please keep still, and I will be still
also; so that's fair."

The Irishman scratched his head a moment, and said in a quieter tone, "Since ye spake so civil
and dacent, I'll do as ye sez; and here's to the leddy's health;" and he finished a bottle
of whiskey, which he soon laid him out on the beach.

"Thank you! Thank you!" said grateful voices on every side.

Dennis found the mother of the child and gave it to her; and then causing Christine to sit
down near the water, where he could easily throw it on her, he stood at her side, vigilant
and almost tender in his solicitude.  Her tears were falling very fast, and he presently stooped
down and said, gently, "Miss Ludolph, I think the worst of the danger is over."

"Oh, Mr. Fleet!" she whispered, "dreadful as it may seem to you, the words of that drunken
brute there are nearer the language of my heart than those of your sweet hymn. How can a good
God permit such creatures and evils to exist?"

"Again I must say to you," said Dennis, "that I cannot explain the mystery of evil. But I know
this, God is superior to it; He will at last triumph over it. The Bible reveals Him to us as
able and as seeking to deliver all who will trust Him and work with Him, and those who venture
out upon His promises find them true. Miss Ludolph, this is not merely a matter of theory,
argument, and belief. It is more truly a matter of experience. The Bible invites, 'Oh, taste
and see that the Lord is good.' I have tasted and know He is. I have trusted Him for years,
and He never failed me."

"You certainly have been sustained throughout this dreadful scene by a principle that I cannot
understand, but I would give all the world to possess it."

"You may possess it, Miss Ludolph."

"How? how?" she asked, eagerly.

"Do you wish to believe as I do?"

"Yes, indeed; and yet my heart rebels against a God who permits, even if He does not cause,
all this evil."

"Does it rebel against a Being who from first to last tries to save men from evil?"

"Tries! tries! what an expression to apply to a God! Why does He not do it in every case?"

"Because multitudes will not let Him."

"Oh, that is worse still! Surely, Mr. Fleet, you let your reason have nothing to do with your
faith. How can a poor and weak being like myself prevent an Almighty one from doing what He
pleases?"

"I am stronger than you, Miss Ludolph, and yet I could not have saved you to-night unless you
had first trusted me, and then done everything in your power to further my efforts."

"But your power is human and limited, and you say God is all-powerful."

"Yes, but it is His plan and purpose never to save us against our will. He has made us in His
own image and endowed us with reason, conscience, and a will to choose between good and evil.
He appeals to these noble faculties from first to last.  He has given us hearts, and seeks
to win them by revealing His love to us.  More than all, His Spirit, present in the world,
uses every form of truth in persuading and making us willing to become His true children. So
you see that neither on the one hand does God gather us up like drift-wood nor does He on the
other drag us at His chariot wheels, unwilling captives, as did those who, at various times,
have sought to overrun the world by force. God seeks to conquer the world by the might of the
truth, by the might of love."

Christine was hanging with the most eager interest on his words. Suddenly his eyes, which had
expressed such a kindly and almost tender interest in her, blazed with indignation, and he
darted up the beach. Turning around she saw, at some little distance, a young woman most scantily
clad, clinging desperately to a bundle which a large, coarse man was trying to wrench from
her. The wretch, finding that he could not loosen her hold, struck her in the face with such
force that she fell stunned upon the ground, and the bundle flew out of her hand. He eagerly
snatched it up, believing it to contain jewelry.  Before he could escape he was confronted
by an unexpected enemy.  But Dennis was in a passion, and withal weak and exhausted, while
his adversary was cool, and an adept in the pugilistic art.  The two men fought savagely, and
Christine, forgetting herself in her instinctive desire to help Dennis, was rushing to his
side, crying, "If there is a man here worthy of the name, let him strike for the right!" but
before she and others could reach the combatants the thief had planted his fist on Dennis's
temple. Though the latter partially parried the blow, it fell with such force as to extend
him senseless on the earth. The villain, with a shout of derision, snatched up the bundle and
dashed off apparently toward the fire. There was but a feeble attempt made to follow him. Few
understood the case, and indeed scenes of violence and terror had become so common that the
majority had grown apathetic, save in respect to their personal well-being.

Christine lifted the pale face, down which the blood was trickling, into her lap, and cried,
in a tone of indescribable anguish, "Oh, he is dead! he is dead!"

"Oh, no, miss; he is not dead, I guess," said a good-natured voice near. "Let me bring a hatful
of water from the lake, and that'll bring him to."

And so it did. Dennis opened his eyes, put his hand to his head, and then looked around. But
when he saw Christine bending over him with tearful eyes, and realized how tenderly she had
pillowed his aching head, he started up with a deep flush of pleasure, and said: "Do not be
alarmed, Miss Ludolph; I was only stunned for a moment. Where is the thief?"

"Oh, they let him escape," said Christine, indignantly.

"Shame!" cried Dennis, regaining his feet rather unsteadily.

"Wal, stranger, a good many wrongs to-night must go unrighted."

The poor girl who had been robbed sat on the sands swaying backing and forth, wringing her
hands, and crying that she had lost everything.

"Well, my poor friend, that is about the case with the most of us. We may be thankful that
we have our lives. Here is my coat," for her shoulders and neck were bare; "and if you will
come down to the lake this lady," pointing to Christine, "will bathe the place where the brute
struck you."

"Shall I not give up my shawl to some of these poor creatures?" asked Christine.

"No, Miss Ludolph, I do not know how long we may be kept here; but I fear we shall suffer as
much from cold as from heat, and your life might depend upon keeping warm."

"I will do whatever you bid me," she said, looking gratefully at him.

"That is the way to feel and act toward God," he said, gently.

But with sudden impetuosity she answered: "I cannot see what He has just permitted to happen
before my eyes. Right has not triumphed, but the foulest wrong."

"You do not see the end, Miss Ludolph."

"But I must judge from what I see."

After she had bathed the poor girl's face, comforted and reassured her, Dennis took up the
conversation again and found Christine eager to listen. Pausing every few moments to throw
water over his companion, he said: "Faith is beyond reason, beyond knowledge, though not contrary
to them. You are judging as we do not judge about the commonest affairs--from a few isolated,
mysterious facts, instead of carefully looking the subject all over. You pass by what is plain
and well understood to what is obscure, and from that point seek to understand Christianity.
Every science has its obscure points and mysteries, but who begins with those to learn the
science? Can you ignore the fact that millions of highly intelligent people, with every motive
to know the truth, have satisfied themselves as to the reality of our faith? Our Bible system
of truth may contain much that is obscure, even as the starry vault has distances that no eye
or telescope can penetrate, and as this little earth has mysteries that science cannot solve,
but there is enough known and understood to satisfy us perfectly. Let me assure you, Miss Ludolph,
that Christianity rests on broad truths, and is sustained by arguments that no candid mind
can resist after patiently considering them."

She shook her head, silenced perhaps, but not satisfied.

CHAPTER XLV

"PRAYER IS MIGHTY"--CHRISTINE A CHRISTIAN

The day was now declining, and the fire in that part of the city opposite them had so spent
itself that they were beginning to have a little respite from immediate danger. The fiery storm
of sparks and cinders was falling mostly to the northward.

Dennis now ventured to sit down almost for the first time, for he was wearied beyond endurance.
The tremendous danger and excitements, and the consciousness of peril to the one most dear
to him, had kept him alert long after he ought to have had rest, but overtaxed nature now asserted
its rights, and the moment the sharp spur of danger was removed he was overpowered by sleep.

Christine spoke to him as he sat near, but even to her (a thing he could not have imagined
possible) he returned an incoherent reply.

"My poor friend, you do indeed need rest," said she, in kindest accents.

He heard her voice like a sweet and distant harmony in a dream, swayed a moment, and would
have fallen over in utter unconsciousness on the sands, had she not glided to his side and
caught his head upon her lap.

In the heavy stupor that follows the utmost exhaustion, Dennis slept hour after hour. The rest
of the day was a perfect blank to him. But Christine, partially covering and shading his face
with the edge of her shawl, bent over him as patient in watching as he had been brave in her
deliverance. It was beautiful to see the features once so cold and haughty, now sweet with
more than womanly tenderness. There upon that desolate beach, cold, hungry, homeless, shelterless,
she was happier than she had been for months. But she trembled as she thought of the future;
everything was so uncertain. She seemed involved in a labyrinth of dangers and difficulties
from which she could see no escape. She knew that both store and home had gone, and probably
most, if not all, of her father's fortune. She felt that these losses might greatly modify
his plans, and really hoped that they would lead him to remain in this country. She felt almost
sure that he would not go back to Germany a poor man, and to remain in America was to give
her a chance of happiness, and happiness now meant life with him over whom she bent. For a
long time she had felt that she could give up all the world for him, but now existence would
scarcely be endurable without him. In proportion to the slowness with which her love had been
kindled was its intensity--the steady, concentrated passion of a strong, resolute nature, for
the first time fully aroused. All indecision passed from her mind, and she was ready to respond
whenever he should speak; but woman's silence sealed her lips, and more than maiden delicacy
masked her heart. While she bent over him with an expression that, had he opened his eyes,
might have caused him to imagine for a moment that his sleep had been death, and he had wakened
in heaven, yet he must needs awake to find that the look and manner of earth had returned.
Her sensitive pride made her guarded even in expressing her gratitude, and she purposed to
slip his head off upon her shawl whenever he showed signs of awakening, so that he might believe
that the earth only had been his resting-place.

But now in his unconsciousness, and unnoted by all around, indeed more completely isolated
by the universal misery and apathy about her than she could have been in her own home, with
a delicious sense of security, she bent her eyes upon him, and toyed daintily with the curling
locks on his brow. Whatever the future might be, nothing should rob her of the strange, unexpected
happiness of this opportunity to be near him, purchased at such cost.

As she sat there and saw the fire rush and roar away to the northward, and the sun decline
over the ruins of her earthly fortune, she thought more deeply and earnestly of life than ever
before. The long, heavy sleep induced by the opiate had now taken away all sense of drowsiness,
and never had her mind been clearer. In the light of the terrible conflagration many things
stood out with a distinctness that impressed her as nothing had ever done before. Wealth and
rank had shrivelled to their true proportions, and she said, half aloud:--

"That which can vanish in a night in flame and smoke cannot belong to us, is not a part of
us. All that has come out of the crucible of this fire is my character, myself. It is the same
with Mr. Fleet; but comparing his character with mine, how much richer he is! What if there
is a future life, and we enter into it with no other possession than our character? and that
which is called soul or spirit is driven forth from earth and the body as we have just been
from our wealth and homes? I can no longer coolly and contemptuously ignore as superstition
what he believes. He is not superstitious, but calm, fearless, and seemingly assured of something
that as yet I cannot understand. One would think that there must be reality in his belief,
for it sustains him and others in the greatest of trials. The hymn he sang was like a magnet
introduced among steel filings mingled with this sand. The mere earth cannot move, but the
steel is instinct with life. So, while many of us could not respond, others seemed inspired
at the name of Jesus with new hope and courage, and cried to the Nazarene as if He could hear
them. Why don't people cry for help to other good men who lived in the dim past, and whose
lives and deeds are half myth and half truth? why to this one man only? for educated Catholics
no longer pray to the saints."

Then her thoughts reverted to Mr. Ludolph.

"Poor father!" said she; "how will he endure these changes? We have not felt and acted toward
each other as we ought. He is now probably anxious beyond measure, fearing that I perished
in my sleep, and so I should have done, had it not been for this more than friend that I have
so wronged. Oh, that I could make amends! I wonder--oh, I wonder if he has any spark of love
left for me? He seems kind, even tender, but he is so to every one--he saved Miss Brown--"

But here a most violent interruption took place. Christine, in the complete absorption of her
thoughts, had not noticed that a group of rough men and women near by, who had been drinking
all day, had now become intoxicated and violent. They were pushing and staggering, howling
and fighting, in reckless disregard of the comfort of others, and before she knew it she was
in the midst of a drunken brawl. One rough fellow struck against her, and another trod on Dennis,
who started up with a cry of pain. In a moment he comprehended the situation, and, snatching
up Christine and the shawl, he pushed his way out of the melee with his right arm, the wretches
striking at him and one another aimlessly in their fury; while both men and women used language
that was worse than their blows. After a brief struggle, Dennis and Christine extricated themselves,
and made their way northward up the beach till they found a place where the people seemed quiet.

Dennis's sudden awakening had revealed to him that his head had been pillowed, and it seemed
such a kind and thoughtful act on Christine's part that he could scarcely believe it; at the
same time he was full of shame and self-reproach that by his sleep he had left her unguarded,
and he said: "Miss Ludolph, I hope you will pardon you recreant knight, who slept while you
were in danger; but really I could not help it."

"It is I who must ask pardon," replied Christine, warmly. "After your superhuman exertions,
your very life depended on rest. But I made a wretched watcher--indeed I have lost confidence
in myself every way. To tell the truth, Mr. Fleet, I was lost in thought, and with your permission
I would like to ask you further about two things you said this morning. You asserted that you
knew God loved you, and that Christianity was sustained by arguments that no candid mind could
resist. What are those arguments? and how can you know such a comforting thing as the love of God?"

His eyes lighted up in his intense delight that she should again voluntarily recur to this
subject, and he hoped that God was leading her to a knowledge of Him, and that he, in answer
to his own and his mother's prayers, might be partially instrumental in bringing the light.
Therefore he said, earnestly: "Miss Ludolph, this is scarcely the time and place to go over
the evidences of Christianity. When in happy security I hope you may do this at your leisure,
and am sure you will be convinced, for I believe that you honestly wish the truth. But there
is no need that you should wait and look forward into the uncertain future for this priceless
knowledge. The father will not keep his child waiting who tries to find him. God is not far
from any one of us. When our Lord was on earth, He never repulsed those who sought Him in sincerity,
and He is the true manifestation of God.

"Moreover," he continued, reverently, "God is now on earth as truly as when Christ walked the
waves of Galilee, or stood with the life-giving word upon His lips at the grave of His friend
Lazarus. The mighty Spirit of God now dwells among men to persuade, help, and lead them into
all truth, and I believe He is guiding you. This Divine Spirit can act as directly on your
mind as did Christ's healing hand when He touched blind eyes and they saw, and palsied bodies
and they sprung into joyous activity."

Under his eager, earnest words, Christine's eyes also lighted up with hope, but after a moment
her face became very sad, and she said, wearily, "Mystery! mystery! you are speaking a language
that I do not understand."

"Yes, yes, I know that the Bible seems to teach all that, but there must be some mistake about
it. Why should an all-powerful God take such a costly, indirect way of accomplishing His purpose
when a word would suffice?"

"We will not discuss God's reasons; I think they are beyond us. But imagining the Bible story
to be true, even though you do not believe it, is not the love of God revealed to us through
His son, Jesus Christ?"

"Yes, it is the very extravagance of disinterested love, So much so that my reason revolts
at it. It is contrary to all my ideas of Deity and power."

"Pardon me, Miss Ludolph, for saying it, but I think your ideas of Deity are borrowed more
from mythology and human greatness than from the Bible. Let your reason stand aside a moment;
this is not contrary to it, but beyond it. Imagining the Bible story true, can you not wish
it true? If the man who died on Calvary out of love for you I and for us all is also God, would
you fear to trust yourself to Him? Could you distrust One who loved you well enough to die
for you?"

"No! no, indeed! if I only could believe it, no! But how can I ever be sure it is true? I am
sure of nothing. I am not sure there is a God. I am not sure the Bible is more than human in
its character. I feel as if my feet stood out upon those shifting waves, and as if there were
nothing certain or stable."

"But in part you know the truth, Miss Ludolph, though you do not believe it, and I believe
that the God of whom we have spoken can directly reveal Himself to you and make His truth as
real to you as it is to me."

"Mr. Fleet," cried Christine, "if I could believe as you do, I should be the happiest of the
happy, for I should feel that, however much I suffered in this brief life, in the existence
beyond I should be more than compensated;" and covering her tearful face with her hands she
moaned, as if it were wrung from her, "I have suffered so much, and there seemed no remedy!"

Dennis's feelings were also deeply touched, and the dew of sympathy gathered in his own eyes.
In the gentlest accents be said, "Oh, that you could trust that merciful, mighty One who invites
all the heavy laden to come to Him for rest!"

She looked up and saw his sympathy, and was greatly moved. In faltering tones she said: "You
feel for me, Mr. Fleet. You do not condemn me in my blindness and unbelief. I cannot trust
Him, because I am not sure He exists. If there was such a God I would gladly devote my whole
being to Him; but I trust you, and will do anything you say."

"Will you kneel on these sands with me in prayer to Him?" he asked, earnestly.

She hesitated, trembled, but at last said, "Yes."

He took her hand as if they were brother and sister, and they kneeled together on the desolate
beach. The glow of sunset was lost in the redder glow of the fire that smouldered all over
the ruins, and still raged in the northwest, and the smoke and gathering gloom involved them
in obscurity.

Though the weary, apathetic fugitives regarded them not, we believe that angelic forms gathered
round, and that the heart of the Divine Father yearned toward His children.

When they rose, after a simple prayer from Dennis, in which he pleaded almost as a child might
with an earthly father, Christine trembled like a leaf, and was very pale, but her face grew
tearless, quiet, and very sad. Dennis still held her hand in the warm, strong grasp of sympathy.
Gently she withdrew it, and said, in a low, despairing tone: "It is all in vain. There is no
answer. Your voice has been lost in the winds and waves."

"Wait the King's time," said he, reverently.

"You addressed him as Father. Would a good father keep his child waiting?"

"Yes, sometimes He does; He is also King."

After a moment she turned to him the saddest face he ever looked upon, and said, gently, again
giving him her hand, "Mr. Fleet, you have done your best for me, and I thank you all the same."

He was obliged to turn away to hide his feelings. Silently they again sat down on the beach
together. Weariness and something like despair began to tell on Christine, and Dennis trembled
when he thought of the long night of exposure before her. He bent his face into his hands and
prayed as he had never prayed before. She looked at him wistfully, and knew he was pleading
for her; but she now believed it was all in vain. The feeling grew upon her that belief or
unbelief was a matter of education and temperament, and that the feelings of which Dennis spoke
were but the deceptive emotions of our agitated hearts. To that degree that the Divine love
seemed visionary and hopeless, she longed for him to speak of his own, if in truth it still
existed, that she could understand and believe in. If during what remained of life she could
only drink the sweetness of that, she felt it was the best she could hope for--and then the
blank of nothingness.

But he prayed on, and with something of his mother's faith seemed at last, as it were, in the
personal presence of Christ. With an importunity that would not be denied, he entreated for
her who despaired at his side.

At last, putting her hand lightly on his arm, she said: "Mr. Fleet, waste no more time on me.
From the groans I hear, some poor woman is sick or hurt. Perhaps you can do some real good
by seeing to her needs."

He rose quietly, feeling that in some way God would answer, and that he must patiently wait.

Going up the beach a short distance he found a German woman lying just on the edge of the water.
In answer to his questions, he learned from her broken English that she was sick and in pain.
A sudden thought struck him. In seeking to help another, might not Christine find help herself,
and in the performance of a good deed, might not the Author of all good reveal Himself? Returning
to her, he said: "Miss Ludolph, the poor woman you have heard is sick and alone. She is German,
and you can speak to her and comfort her as only a woman can."

Christine went at once, though with little confidence in her powers. Indeed it was, perhaps,
the first visit of charity and mercy she had ever made. But she would have done anything he
asked, and determined to do her best. She helped the poor creature further up from the water,
and then, taking her hands, spoke to her soothingly and gently in her native tongue.

"Heaven and all the angels bless your sweet face for taking pity on a poor lone body, and so
they will too," is the free rendering of her grateful German.

"Would you please say a little prayer for a lone, sick body?" she asked, after a little while.

Christine hesitated a moment, and then thought: "Why not? if it will be of any comfort to the
poor thing. It can do neither of us harm."

Dennis saw her kneel at the woman's side, lift her white face to heaven, and her lips move.
Her attitude was unmistakably that of prayer. He could scarcely believe his eyes.

Her petition was brief and characteristic: "O God--if there is a God--help this poor creature!"

Then Dennis saw her start up and glance around in a strange, bewildered manner. Suddenly she
clasped her hands and looked up with an ecstatic, thrilling cry: "There is! there is! God lives
and loves me, I feel, I know, and therefore I may hope and live." Turning to the still raging
flames, she exclaimed: "Burn on with your fiery billows, I do not fear you now! I am safe,
safe forever! Oh, how can I ever love and praise Thee enough!"

Then, springing to Dennis's side, she took both his hands in hers, and said: "Mr. Fleet, you
have saved my life again and again, and I am, oh, how grateful! but in leading me to this knowledge
you have made me your debtor for evermore. God does live, and I believe now He loves even me."

As the glare of the fire fell on her face, he was awed and speechless at its expression. From
its ecstatic joy and purity it seemed that the light of heaven, instead of her burning home,
was illumining it.

At last he said, brokenly, "Thank God! thank God! my many, many prayers are answered!"

The look of love and gratitude she gave him will only find its counterpart in heaven, when
the saved beam upon those who led them to the Saviour. The whole of her strong womanly soul,
thoroughly aroused, was in her face, and it shone like that of an angel.

To Dennis, with the force of fulfilled prophecy, recurred his mother's words, and unconsciously
he spoke them aloud: "PRAYER is MIGHTY."

CHAPTER XLVI

CHRISTINE'S GRAVE

After a moment Christine returned to her charge and said, gently, "I think I can take better
care of you now."

The poor woman looked at her in a bewildered way, half fearing she had lost her senses. But
there was that in Christine's tone and manner now that went like sunlight and warmth to the
heart, and in broadest German the grateful creature was soon blessing her again and again,
and Christine felt that she was blessed beyond even her wildest dreams.

Dennis now felt that she must have food and rest. She appeared, in the ghostly light of the
distant flames, so pale and spirit-like, that he almost feared she would slip away to heaven
at once, and he began looking for some one stronger, older, and more suitable, to take her
place. At a little distance further north he at last found a stout German woman sitting with
her two children on a large feather bed, the sole relic of her household goods. Dennis acquainted
her with the case, and she soon took the matter out of his and Christine's hands in a very
satisfactory way.

To the south and west opportunity of escape was utterly cut off; eastward were the waters of
the lake, so that their only chance was to push northward. After making their way slowly for
a short distance among the thickly scattered groups and the varied articles that had been dragged
to the shore for safety, Dennis thought he heard a familiar voice.

"Dr. Arten!" he cried.

"Hallo! who wants me?" answered the good old physician, bustling up in rather incongruous costume,
consisting of a dress coat, white vest, red flannel drawers, and a very soiled pair of slippers.

"Oh, doctor! the very sight of you inspires hope and courage."

"Surely a young fellow like you can be in no want of those articles?"

"If he is lacking," cried Christine, "it must be for the reason that he has given hope and
courage to every one he has met, and so has robbed himself."

"Heigho!" exclaimed the doctor, "you here?"

"Yes, thanks to the heroism of Mr. Fleet."

"Fleet, is that all you have saved from the fire?" asked the doctor, with a humorous twinkle,
pointing to Christine.

"I am well satisfied," said Dennis, quietly, but with rising color.

"I should have perished, had not Mr. Fleet come to my rescue," continued Christine, warmly,
glad of an opportunity to express a little of her gratitude.

The doctor turned his genial, humorous eye on her and said: "Don't be too grateful, Miss Ludolph;
he is a young man, and only did his duty. Now if I had been so fortunate you might have been
as grateful as you pleased."

It was Christine's turn to grow rather rosier than even the red fire warranted, but she said,
"You would have your joke, doctor, if the world were burning up."

"Yes, and after it burned up," he replied. "What do you think of that, Miss Ludolph, with your
German scepticism?"

Tears came in Christine's eyes, and she said, in a low tone, "I am glad to say that I have
lost my German scepticism in the fire also."

"What!" cried the doctor, seizing both her hands in his hearty way. "Will you accept of our
Christian superstition?"

"I think I have accepted your glorious Christian truth, and the thought makes me very happy."

"Well, now I can almost say, Praise God for the fire, though old Dr. Arten must commence again
where the youngsters are who kick up their heels in their office all day."

With professional instinct he slipped his finger on Christine's pulse, then rummaged in his
pocket and soon drew out some powders, and in his brusque way made her take one.

"Oh, how bitter!" she exclaimed.

"That is the way the ladies treat me," began the merry bachelor: "not an ounce of gratitude
when I save their lives. But let a young fellow like Fleet come along and get them out of danger
by mere brute strength, instead of my delicate, skilful way, and language breaks down with
their thanks. Very well, I shall have compensation--I shall present my bill before long. And
now, young man, since you have set out to rescue my little friend here, you had better carry
the matter through, for several reasons which I need not urge. Your best chance is to make
your way northward, and then continue around the west, where you can find food and shelter;"
and with a hearty grasp of the hand, the brave, genial old man wished them "God speed!"

Dennis told him of the poor German woman, and then pushed on in the direction indicated. But
Christine was growing weak and exhausted. At last they reached the Catholic cemetery. It was
crowded with fugitives and the fire to the northwest still cut off all escape, even if Christine's
strength had permitted further exertion. It was now approaching midnight, and she said, wearily:
"Mr. Fleet, I am very sorry, but I fear I cannot take another step. The powder Dr. Arten gave
me strengthened me for a time, but its effect is passing away, and I feel almost paralyzed
with fatigue. I am not afraid to stay here, or indeed anywhere now."

"It seems a very hard necessity that you should have to remain in such a place, Miss Ludolph,
but I see no help for it. We are certainly as well off as thousands of others, and so I suppose
ought not to complain."

"I feel as if I could never complain again, Mr. Fleet. I only hope my father is as safe and
as well as we are. I cannot tell you how my heart goes out toward him now that I see everything
in a different light. I have not been a true daughter, and I do long to make amends. He surely
has escaped, don't you think?"

"Mr. Ludolph was possessed of unusual sagacity and prudence," said Dennis, evasively. "What
any man could do, he could. And now, Miss Ludolph, I will try to find you a resting-place.
There are such crowds here that I think we had better go nearer that side, where early in the
evening the fire drove people away."

The cemetery had not been used of late years, and many of the bodies had been removed. This
caused excavations here and there, and one of these from which the gathered leaves and grass
had been burned, Dennis thought might answer for Christine's couch, as in the hollow of this
vacant and nearly filled grave she would be quite sheltered from the wind, and the sand was
still warm from the effects of the fire. To his surprise she made no objection.

"I am so weary that I can rest anywhere," she said, "and a grave is not to me what it was once."

He arranged her shawl so that it might be mattress, pillow, and covering, and wrapped her up.

"And how will you endure the long, cold hours, my friend?" she asked, looking up most sympathetically.

"Thanks to your kindness, I had such a good sleep this afternoon that I feel strong and rested,"
he replied, with a smile.

"I fear you say so to put my mind at rest;" but even as she spoke her eyes closed and she went
to sleep like a tired and trusting child. As with Dennis a few hours before, the limit of nature's
endurance had been reached, and the wealthy, high-born Miss Ludolph, who on Sabbath night had
slept in the midst of artistic elegance and luxury, now, on Monday night, rested in a vacant
grave under the open and storm-gathering sky. Soon--to be accurate, at two o'clock on the morning
of Tuesday--rain began to fall. But, with all the discomfort it brought, never had rain been
more welcome.

Christine shivered in her sleep, and Dennis looked around vainly for some additional covering.
The thronging fugitives were all in a similar plight, and their only course was simply to endure
till some path of escape opened.

The night was indeed a long one to him. At first excitement and happiness kept him awake and
unconscious of time and discomfort. But he soon felt how weary and hungry he was, for he had
eaten nothing since his slight supper on Sabbath evening. The heat of the fire perceptibly
lessened as the rain began falling, and without his coat Dennis was soon chilled to the bone.
On every side he heard moans of discomfort, and he knew that he had far more reason to endure
patiently than many near him. He tried to keep himself warm by walking around, but at last
he grew too weary for that, and sat, a patient, cowering watcher, at the head of Christine's
weird couch, listening sadly at times to the pitiful crying of little children and the sighs
and groans of older sufferers.

At last the light of welcome day streaked the eastern horizon, and Christine opened her eyes
in a bewildered way, but, on seeing him swaying backward and forward with half-closed eyes,
sprang up and said, "And have you sat and watched there all the long night?"

"I hope you feel rested and better, Miss Ludolph," he replied, startled from drowsiness by
her voice.

"It has been raining, too. I fear you are wet through. Oh, how much you must have suffered
on my account!"

"I imagine you are as wet as I am, Miss Ludolph. This has been a very democratic experience
for you. We are all about alike in this strange camping-ground."

"No; your kindness made me quite comfortable. Indeed, I never slept better. And you, without
any coat or shelter, have watched patiently hour after hour."

"Well, you did as much for me yesterday afternoon, so we are quits."

"I think there is a great difference," she said. "And remember what a watcher I made; I let
those drunken creatures run over you."

"I don't see how you could have helped it," said he, laughing. "That you should have cared
for me as you did was a favor that I never expected," he added, blushing.

She blushed too, but made no reply; at the same time she was vexed with herself that she did
not. Dennis, with a lover's blindness, misunderstood her silence, and thought that, as a friend,
she was more grateful than he could wish, but he must speak in no other character.

Then he remembered that it would be dishonorable to urge his suit under the circumstances;
it would be a source of inexpressible pain to her, with her strong sense of obligation, to
put aside expressions of his deeper regard, and he resolved to avoid if possible any manifestations
of his feelings. While she was dependent upon him he would act the part of a brother toward
her, and if his human love could never find its consummation, he would bear his loss as patiently
as possible. But in spite of himself a tinge of sadness and restraint came into his manner,
and Christine sighed to herself, "If he only knew, and I only knew, just the truth, how much
happier we might be!" There was a general movement now in the strangely assorted multitude.
The fire had swept everything away so completely on the north side that there were not hot
blazing ruins to prevent crossing. Accordingly men came pouring over, looking for their families.
On every side were cries of joy on recognition of those whom fear and terrible forebodings
had buried under the blackened remains of once happy homes. But mingled with exclamations of
joy were sobs and wails of anguish, as some now realized in the lapsing hours that absent members
of the household were lost.

Christine looked in vain for her father; at last Dennis said: "Miss Ludolph, do you feel equal
to the effort of crossing to the west side? You must be faint with hunger, and there only can
we hope for help."

"Oh, yes! let us go at once, for your sake as well as mine;" for she saw that his long fasting
and great fatigue had made him very haggard.

They urged their way across the burned district as fast as their exhausted state would permit,
carefully avoiding burning brands that still lay in the street.

"I hope you will have patience with me in my slow progress," said Christine, "for I feel as
I imagine Rip Van Winkle must have done, after his twenty years' nap."

"I think you have borne up heroically, Miss Ludolph," said Dennis, warmly.

"Oh, no! I am not in the least heroic, but I confess that I am very hungry.  I never knew what
hunger was before. Well, I can now appreciate what must often be the condition of the poor,
and hope not to be so forgetful of them hereafter."

"I am glad to hear you say that you are hungry, Miss Ludolph, for it proves that with care
you will rally after this dreadful exposure, and be your former self."

"Ah! Mr. Fleet, I hope I shall never be my old self again.  I shudder when I think what I was
when you awakened me that dreadful night."

"But I have feared," said he, ever avoiding any reference to his own services, "that, though
you might escape the fire, the exposure would be greater than you could endure. I trembled
for you last night when it began to rain, but could find no additional covering."

"No brother could be kinder or more thoughtful of me," she said, turning upon him a glad, grateful
face.

"That is it," thought Dennis.  "She hints to me what must be our relationship.  She is the
Baroness Ludolph, and is pledged to a future that I cannot share."

But as he saw her gratitude, he resolved all the more resolutely not to put it to the hard
test of refusing his love. A little later he unconsciously sighed wearily, and she looked at
him wistfully.

"Oh, that I knew if he felt toward me as he once did!" she said to herself.

They now reached the unscathed streets of the west side, which were already thronged with fugitives
as hungry and gaunt as themselves. Mingling with this great strange tide of weak, begrimed,
hollow-eyed humanity, they at last reached Dr. Goodwin's beautiful church. Here already had
begun the noble charity dispensed from that place during the days of want and suffering that
followed.

CHAPTER XLVII

SUSIE WINTHROP

Waiting with multitudes of others, Christine and Dennis at last received an army biscuit (hardtack
in the soldier's vernacular) and a tin-cup of what resembled coffee. To him it was very touching
to see how eagerly she received this coarse fare, proving that she was indeed almost famished.
Too weak to stand, they sat down near the door on the sidewalk. A kind lady presently came
and said, "If you have no place to go you will find it more comfortable in the church."

They gladly availed themselves of her permission, as the thronged street was anything but pleasant.

"Mr. Fleet," said Christine, "I am now going to take care of you in return for your care last
night," and she led him up to a secluded part of the church by the organ, arranged some cushions
on a seat, and then continued: "As I have obeyed you, so you must now be equally docile. Don't
you dare move from that place till I call you;" and she left him.

He was indeed wearied beyond expression, and most grateful for a chance to rest. This refuge
and the way it was secured seemed almost a heavenly experience, and he thought with deepest
longing, "If we could always take care of each other, I should be perhaps too well satisfied
with this earthly life."

When after a little time Christine returned he was sleeping as heavily as he had done before
upon the beach, but the smile his last thought occasioned still rested on his face.

For some little time she also sat near and rested, and her eyes sought his face as if a story
were written there that she never could finish. Then she went to make inquiries after her father.
But no one to whom she spoke knew anything about him.

Bread and other provisions were constantly arriving, but not fast enough to meet the needs
of famishing thousands. Though not feeling very strong she offered her services, and was soon
busily engaged. All present were strangers to her, but, when they learned from the inquiries
for her father that she was Miss Ludolph, she was treated with deference and sympathy. But
she assumed nothing, and as her strength permitted, during the day, she was ready for any task,
even the humblest. She handed food around among the hungry, eager applicants, with such a sweet
and pitying face that she heard many a murmured blessing. Her efforts were all the more appreciated
as all saw that she too had passed through the fire and had suffered deeply. At last a kind,
motherly lady said: "My dear, you look ready to drop. Here, take this," and she poured out
a glass of wine and gave her a sandwich; "now, go and find some quiet nook and rest. It's your
duty."

"I have a friend who has suffered almost everything in saving me. He is asleep now, but he
has had scarcely anything to eat for nearly three days, and I know he will be very hungry when
he wakes."

"Nothing to eat for three days! Why, you must take him a whole loaf, and this, and this," cried
the good lady, about to provision Dennis for a month.

"Oh, no," said Christine, with a smile, "so much would not be good for him. If you will give
me three or four sandwiches, and let me come for some coffee when he wakes, it will be sufficient;"
and she carried what now seemed treasures to where Dennis was sleeping, and sat down with a
happy look in her face.

The day had been full of sweet, trustful thoughts. She was conscious of a presence within her
heart and all around that she knew was Divine, and in spite of her anxiety about her father
and the uncertainty of the future, she had a rest and contentment of mind that she had never
experienced before. Then she felt such a genuine sympathy for the sufferers about her, and
found them so grateful when she spoke to them gently and kindly, that she wondered she had
never before discovered the joy of ministering to others. She was entering a new world, and,
though there might be suffering in it, the antidote was ever near, and the pleasures promised
to grow richer, fuller, more satisfying, till they developed into the perfect happiness of
heaven. But every Christian joy that was like a sweet surprise--every thrilling hope that pointed
to endless progress in all that is best and noblest in life, instead of the sudden blank and
nothingness that threatened but yesterday--and, above all, the animating consciousness of the
Divine love which kept her murmuring, "My Saviour, my good, kind Heavenly Father," all reminded
her of him who had been instrumental in bringing about the wondrous change. Often during the
day she would go and look at him, and could Dennis only have opened his eyes at such a moment,
and caught her expression, no words would have been needed to assure him of his happiness.

The low afternoon sun shone in gold and crimson on his brow and face through the stained windows
before he gave signs of waking, and then she hurried away to get the coffee hot from the urn.

She had hardly gone before he arose greatly refreshed and strengthened, but so famished that
a roast ox would have seemed but a comfortable meal. His eye at once caught the sandwiches
placed temptingly near.

"That is Miss Ludolph's work," he said; "I wonder if she has saved any for herself." He was
about to go and geek her when she met him with the coffee.

"Go back," she said; "how dare you disobey orders?"

"I was coming to find you."

"Well, that is the best excuse you could have made, but I am here; so sit down and drink this
coffee and devour these sandwiches."

"Not unless you share them with me."

"Insubordinate! See here," and she took out her more dainty provision from behind a seat and
sat down opposite, in such a pretty, companionable way that he in his admiration and pleasure
forgot his sandwiches.

"What is the matter?" she asked. "You are to eat the sandwiches, not me."

"A very proper hint, Miss Ludolph; one might well be inclined to make the mistake."

"Now that is a compliment worthy of the king of the Cannibal Islands."

"Miss Ludolph," said Dennis, looking at her earnestly, "you do indeed seem happy."

A ray of light slanting through a yellow diamond of glass fell with a sudden glory upon her
face, and in a tone of almost ecstasy she said: "Oh, I am so glad and grateful, when I realize
what might have been, and what is! It seems that I have lost so little in this fire in comparison
with what I have gained. And but for you I might have lost everything. How rich this first
day of life, real, true life, has been! My Heavenly Father has been so kind to me that I cannot
express it. And then to think how I have wronged Him all these years!"

"You have indeed learned the secret of true eternal happiness, Miss Ludolph."

"I believe it--I feel sure of it. All trouble, all pain will one day pass away forever; and
sometimes I feel as if I must sing for joy. I do so long to see my father and tell him. I fear
he won't believe it at first, but I can pray as you did, and it seems as if my Saviour would
not deny me anything. And now, Mr. Fleet, when you have finished your lunch, I am going to
ask one more favor, and then will dub you truest knight that ever served defenceless woman.
You will find my father for me, for I believe you can do anything."

Even in the shadow where he sat she caught the pained expression of his face.

She started up and grasped his arm.

"You know something," she said; then added: "Do not be afraid to find my father now. When he
knows what services you have rendered me, all estrangement, if any existed, will pass away."

But he averted his face, and she saw tears gathering in his eyes.

"Mr. Fleet," she gasped, "do you know anything I do not?"

He could hide the truth no longer. Indeed it was time she should learn it. Turning and taking
her trembling hand, he looked at her so sadly and kindly that she at once knew her father was dead.

"Oh, my father!" she cried, in a tone of anguish that he could never forget, "you will never,
never know. All day I have been longing to prove to you the truth of Christianity by my loving,
patient tenderness, but you have died, and will never know," she moaned, shudderingly.

He still held her hand--indeed she clung to his as to something that might help sustain her
in the dark, bitter hour.

"Poor, poor father!" she cried; "I never treated him as I ought, and now he will never know
the wealth of love I was hoping to lavish on him." Then, looking at Dennis almost reproachfully,
she said: "Could you not save him? You saved so many others."

"Indeed I could not, Miss Ludolph; I tried, and nearly lost my life in the effort. The great
hotel behind the store fell and crushed all in a moment."

She shuddered, but at last whispered, "Why have you kept this so long from me?"

"How could I tell you when the blow would have been death? Even now you can scarcely bear it."

"My little beginning of faith is sorely tried. Heavenly Spirit," she cried, "guide me through
this darkness, and let not doubt and unbelief cloud my mind again."

"Such prayer will be answered," said Dennis, in a deep, low tone.

They sat in the twilight in silence. He still held her hand, and she was sobbing more gently
and quietly. Suddenly she asked, "Is it wrong thus to grieve over the breaking of an earthly tie?"

"No, not if you will say as did your Lord in His agony, 'Oh, my Father, Thy will be done.'"

"I will try," she said, softly, "but it is hard."

"Do you know that I think my change in feeling makes me grieve all the more deeply? Until to-day
I never loved my father as I ought. It is the curse of unbelief to deaden everything good in
the heart. Oh, I do feel such a great, unspeakable pity for him!"

"Like as a father pitieth his children, so the Lord pitieth them that fear Him."

"Is that in the Bible?" she asked.

"Yes."

"It is very sweet. He indeed must be my refuge now, for I am alone in the world."

"He has said, 'I will never leave thee nor forsake thee.' I have passed through this sorrow
so recently myself that I can sympathize with you as a fellow-sufferer."

"True, true, you have," she answered. "Is that the reason that Christ suffered with us--that
we might know He sympathized with us?"

"Yes."

"How unspeakably comforting is such sympathy, both human and divine! Tell me about your mother."

"I fear I cannot without being unmanned. She was one of Heaven's favorites, and I owe everything
to her. I can tell you one thing, though, she prayed for you continually--even with her dying
lips, when my faith had broken down."

This touched Christine very deeply. At last she said, "I shall see her some day."

"I wish you had seen her," he continued very sadly, looking as if at a scene far away.

"You cannot wish it more than I. Indeed I would have called on her, had it not been for an
unfortunate accident."

He looked at her with some surprise, as if not understanding her remark, but said, "She greatly
wished to see you before she died."

"Oh, I wish I had known it!"

"Did you not know it?" he asked, in a startled manner.

"No, but I felt grateful to her, for I understood that she offered to take care of me in case
I had the smallpox. I wanted to visit her very much, and at last thought I would venture to
do so, but just then I sprained my ankle. I sent my maid to inquire, but fear she didn't do
my errand very well," added Christine, looking down.

"She never came, Miss Ludolph." Then he continued, eagerly: "I fear I have done you a great
wrong. A little time before my mother died, she wrote you a line saying that she was dying
and would like to see you. I did not know you could not come--I thought you would not."

Crimson with shame and humiliation, Christine buried her burning cheeks in her hands and murmured,
"I never received it."

"And did you send the exquisite flowers and fruit?" he asked. "Ah, I see that you did. I am
so glad--so very glad that I was mistaken! I sincerely ask your pardon for my unjust thoughts."

"It is I who should ask pardon, and for a long time I have earnestly wished that I might find
opportunity to do so. My conduct has been simply monstrous, but of late it has seemed worse
than the reality. Everything has been against me. If you only knew--but--" (and her head bowed
lower). Then she added, hastily, "My maid has been false, and I must have appeared more heartless
than ever." But, with biter shame and sorrow, she remembered who must have been the inspirer
of the treachery, and, though she never spoke of it again, she feared that Dennis suspected
it also. It was one of those painful things that must be buried, even as the grave closes over
the frail, perishing body.

Let those who are tempted to a wicked, dishonorable deed remember that, even after they are
gone, the knowledge of it may come to those who loved them, like an incurable wound.

Dennis's resolution not to speak till Christine should be no longer dependent on him was fast
melting away, as he learned that she had not been so callous and forgetful as she had seemed.
But before he could add another word, a wild, sweet, mournful voice was heard singing:

                  "O fiery storm, wilt never cease?
                     Thy burning hail falls on my heart;
                   Bury me deep, that I in peace
                     May rest where death no more can part."

In awed, startled tones they both exclaimed, "SUSIE WINTHROP!"

CHAPTER XLVIII

DOCTOR ARTEN STRUCK BY LIGHTNING

Hastening down into the body of the church, Dennis and Christine found Mrs. Leonard lying on
some cushions in a pew. She was scantily clad, her sweet face scorched and blackened, and her
beautiful hair almost crisped away.

Her husband was bending over her in an agony of mingled grief and joy. She had just been brought
in from wandering aimlessly and alone quite out upon the prairie, singing in a low, plaintive
way to herself words suggested by the sudden disaster that had temporarily robbed her of husband,
of reason, and almost of life.

Dennis afterward learned from Professor Leonard that when first aroused they had escaped from
the hotel, but, not realizing the danger, he had stepped back a moment at her request to get
something she valued very much, and they had become separated.

"And thus at last I find the poor child," he cried, with a look of agony.

Mrs. Leonard did not know any of them, but continued her low, plaintive singing.

Dr. Arten, who had found his way to the church as one of the centres, was soon in attendance,
his benevolent face becoming the very embodiment of pity. The crowd were pushed back, and with
other kind ladies Christine took charge of her poor unconscious friend, and all was done that
skill and tender love could suggest. At last, under the doctor's opiates, her low, weird singing
ceased, and she slept, her husband holding her hand. The thronging fugitives were kept a little
away, and Dr. Arten slept near, to be within call.

A lady asked Christine to go home with her, but she thanked her and said, "No, I would rather
remain in the church near my friends."

Dennis saw that she was greatly wearied. Taking her hand, he said: "Miss Ludolph, it is my
turn to take care of you again. See, our friends are preparing a place there for the ladies
to sleep. Please go to rest at once, for you do indeed need it."

"I am very tired, but I know I could not sleep. How strange this life is! All day, the world,
in spite of what has happened, seemed growing brighter. Now with the night has come the deeper
darkness of sorrow. On every side pain and suffering seem to predominate, and to me there will
ever be so much mystery in events like my father's death and my friend Susie's experience,
that I know it will be hard to maintain a childlike faith."

"God will help you to trust; you will not be left to struggle alone. Then remember you are
His child, and earthly parents do much that little children cannot understand."

With a faint smile she answered: "I fear I shall be one of those troublesome children that
are ever asking why. All day it has seemed so easy to be a Christian, but already I learn that
there will be times when I shall have to cling to my Saviour, instead of being carried forward
in His arms. Indeed, I almost fear that I shall lose Him in the darkness."

"But He will not lose you," replied Dennis. "Since you are not sleepy, let me tell you a short
Bible story."

"Oh, do, please do, just as if I were a little child."

"It is in the New Testament. Jesus had sent His disciples in a boat across the sea of Galilee,
while He should go up alone on a mountain to pray. The night came, and with it a storm swept
down against the disciples. The smooth sea was lashed into great foam-crested waves which broke
over their little ship.  They tugged hour after hour at the oars, but in vain.  The night grew
darker, the wind more contrary, the waves higher and more threatening, their arms wearied,
and they may have feared that they would perish alone and without remedy in the black midnight.
But we read that 'He saw them toiling in rowing,' though they knew it not.  From the distant
mountain side 'He saw them'--marked every weary stroke of the oar, and every throb of fear.
But at last, when they were most ready to welcome Him, when none could say, 'We should have
rowed through the storm alone,' He came to them walking safely on the dark waves that threatened
them with death, and said, 'Be of good cheer, it is I; be not afraid.'  Then they gladly received
Him into the ship, and immediately the rough waves were hushed, and the keel of the boat grated
on the beach toward which they had vainly rowed. Then they that were in the ship came and worshipped
Him, saying, 'Of a truth thou art the Son of God.'

"Now it was on the evening of that very night that these same disciples had engaged in a scene
of festivity.  They had stood in the sunset on the mountain slope, and seen their Lord feed
many thousand.  Then all was peace, safety, and good cheer.  Life changed as quickly for them
as for you, but did not their Divine Master see them as truly in the stormy night as in the
sunlight? Did He leave them to perish?

"He is watching you, Miss Ludolph, for He is ever the same; and before this stormy night of
your sorrow passes away you will hear His voice, saying, 'Be of good cheer, it is I; be not
afraid.'"

"Already I hear it," she said, in a low, glad voice, smiling through her tears.  "I can, I
do trust Him, and the conflicting winds of doubt and fear are becoming still. Among all these
homeless people there must be many sad, discouraged hearts.  You have helped me so much; can
you not say a word or sing something that will help them?"

Dennis thought a moment, and then, in a sweet, clear voice that penetrated every part of the
large building, sang:

    "Father in Heaven, the night is around us,
     Terror and danger our portion have been;
     We cry unto Thee, oh, save and defend us,
     Comfort the trembling, and pardon our sin.

    "Hearts that are heavy, look onward and upward;
     Though wild was the storm that wrecked your loved homes,
     Faith lifts your sad glances hopefully heavenward,
     To mansions prepared with glory-crowned domes.

    "Hearts that are breaking, whose lov'd ones have vanished,
     Swept down in the seething ocean of fire,
     E'en now they may rest where pain is all banished,
     And join their glad songs with the heavenly choir.

    "Hearts that are groaning with life's weary burden,
     Who fear to go forward, to sorrow a prey;
     Jesus invites you--'Oh, come, heavy laden';
     Leave sin at His feet, bear mercy away."

After the first line there was a breathless hush; but, when he closed, low sobbings might be
heard from many of the women, and in the dim light not a few tears shone in the eyes of manhood.
Dennis's voice was sympathetic in its character, and he had the power of throwing into it much
feeling.

Christine was weeping quietly, but her tears now were like the warm spring rain as it falls
on the precious seed. At last she said, "You have done these people much good."

"To you belongs all the credit, for it was at your suggestion I sang."

She shook her head, and then said, "Good-night, my friend, I shall never forget this day with
its mingled experience; but I think, I hope, I shall never doubt God again;" and she went to
her rest.

The light of the next day brought to view many hard realities, and chief among these was the
bread question. Dennis was up with the dawn, and by eager inquiries sought to comprehend the
situation. Some were gloomy and discouraged, some apathetic, and some determined, courageous,
and hopeful; and to this last class he belonged.

Most thankful that he had come out of the fiery ordeal unscathed, he resolved to contribute
his quota toward a new and better Chicago. Young, and sanguine in temperament, he already saw
the city rise from its ashes in statelier proportions and richer prosperity. With a thrill
of exultation he heard the report that some Napoleonic business men had already telegraphed
for building material, and were even now excavating the hot ruins.

Christine had hardly joined him as he stood at the door when a gentleman entered and asked,
"Who here are willing and able to work for fair wages?"

"I am at your service," said Dennis, stepping forward promptly.

"You are a gentleman, sir," said the speaker, impressed with the fact by Dennis's bearing,
though his hat and coat were gone; "I need laborers who can handle the pick and shovel."

"I will work for less, then, till I can handle these tools as well as a laborer. There is no
reason why I should eat the bread of charity a day longer, especially when so many need it
more than I."

"I said you were a gentleman; I now say you are a man, and that to me means a great deal more,"
said the energetic stranger. "You shall have two dollars a day with the rest."

He turned to Christine and said, almost proudly, "The supper you have to-night shall be yours
also."

"That is," she replied, with a smile, "I shall live on your charity instead of that of some
one else."

His face grew sad at once, but he answered, as he went away, "I could not give you charity,
Miss Ludolph."

Christine saw that she had pained him, and was much vexed with herself. But his remark added
to the hope and almost belief that she still held her old place in his heart, and she resolved
to make amends in the evening for her unlucky speech.

With a smile she said to herself: "If he only knew that I would prefer the coarsest, scantiest
fare provided by him to the most costly banquet, he would not have gone away with that long
face. How rich life would be if I could commence it with him, and we struggle up together!
Oh, Heaven, grant," she sighed, looking earnestly upward, "that through these wonderful, terrible
changes, I may climb the mountain at his side, as he so graphically portrayed it in his picture!"

Mrs. Leonard still slept, and her husband in an agony of anxiety watched at her side. At last,
a little before midday, she opened her eyes and said, in her natural tone: "Why, John, I must
have greatly overslept. Where am I?" and then, as her husband fairly sobbed for joy, she started
up and said, hurriedly: "What is the matter? What has happened?"

"Oh, be calm!" whispered Christine to the professor. "Everything depends on keeping her quiet."
Then she bent over her friend, and said: "Do not be alarmed, Susie; you are now safe and well,
and so is your husband. But you have been ill, and for his sake and your own you must keep quiet."

She turned inquiringly to her husband, who said, more calmly, "It is all true, and if you can
only be careful we can go back to Boston as well as ever."

"I will do anything you say, John; but why am I in a church?"

"You were taken sick in the street, and this was the nearest place to bring you."

"Oh, dear! I have had such strange, dreadful dreams. I am so glad they were only dreams, and
you are here with me;" and she lay quietly holding her husband's hands and looking contentedly
in his face. It was evident she was herself again, and much better.

Dr. Arten soon after came and said, cheerily, "All right! all right! will have you out in a
day or two as good as new, and then, Miss Ludolph, you will see how much more grateful she
is to the old doctor than you were."

"You must present your bill," replied Christine, with a smile.

"May I?" retorted the doctor, wiping his lips.

"Oh, I don't know about that," cried Christine; adding, quickly, "when I welcome you to my
own home you may."

"An old maid's hall, I suppose."

"It will be an orphan's home, at least," said Christine, softly and sadly.

Tears filled the old man's eyes, and putting his arm around her he drew her to him, saying,
as he stroked her drooping head: "Poor child! poor child! I did not know. But you shall never
want a protector while the old doctor is above ground. As far as possible I will be a father
to you;" and Christine knew she had found a friend as true and strong as steel, and she buried
her face on his shoulder and cried as trustingly as his own child might have done.

"Oh, Christine!" cried Mrs. Leonard, "I am so sorry for you!"

At the voice of her old friend she at once rallied, and, trying to smile through her tears,
said, "God has been so much better to me than I deserved that I have only gratitude when I
think of myself; but my poor father--" and again she covered her face and wept.

"Christine, come here," said Mrs. Leonard, softly, and she put her arms around the weeping
girl. "You spoke of God's being good to you. Have you in truth found and learned to trust Him?"

"Yes," she replied, eagerly, joy and peace coming out in her face like the sun shining through
clouds and rain. Then with bowed head she whispered low: "The one I wronged on earth led me
to the One I wronged in heaven, and both have forgiven me. Oh, I am so glad, so happy!"

"Then you have seen Mr. Fleet."

"Yes, he saved my life again and again, but in teaching me how to find my Saviour, he has done
far more for me."

"And you will not wrong him any more, will you, Christine? He has loved you so long and faithfully."

In reply she lifted an eager face to her friend and said, "Do you think he can love me still
after my treatment of him?"

"Give him a chance to tell you," said Mrs. Leonard, with a half-mischievous smile. "Has he
not shown his feelings?"

"He has treated me more as a brother might have done, and yet he is so very respectful and
deferential--I hope--but I am not perfectly sure--and then he seems under some restraint."

