"Egbert's ten, and I'm nine, and Ethel's seven," replied the little chubby-faced hero, digging
his hands deep into his trousers, and jingling all the sovereigns there. I advised him to let
me be his banker; and, keeping one out of his many gold pieces, he handed over the others,
on which he drew with great liberality till his whole stock was expended. The school hours
of the upper and under boys were different at that time; the little fellows coming out of their
hall half an hour before the Fifth and Sixth Forms; and many a time I used to find my little
blue-jacket in waiting, with his honest square face, and white hair, and bright blue eyes,
and I knew that he was come to draw on his bank. Ere long one of the pretty blue eyes was shut
up, and a fine black one substituted in its place. He had been engaged, it appeared, in a pugilistic
encounter with a giant of his own form whom he had worsted in the combat. "Didn't I pitch into
him, that's all?" says he in the elation of victory; and, when I asked whence the quarrel arose,
he stoutly informed me that "Wolf Minor, his opponent, had been bullying a little boy, and
that he, the gigantic Newcome, wouldn't stand it." 

As before long as he has got what he wishes for, and taken from me, what's now my only Boast my
Maiden-head, my Honour and his Love will both be lost together: and then I will have none left me
but too late Repentance. This so effectually wrought upon him, That he made all the Protestations
in the World, Nothing shou'd ever part em, if she'd but condescend
to accept of him for a Gallant: For tho he had a Wife, 'twas one he
cou'd not love, and didn't nurture her; where he observed those Charms
in her, that would constrain him to be perpetually constant.

And that if she would agree to be as accurate to him as she shou'd perpetually find him accurate
to her, it wou'd be all the cheerfulness he'd ask.--And now, to make the Bargain firm, the Bawd
retains services for both Parties, that they will each be accurate to one another.
 

The small river was white with the waves moving over the bar: there were no leaves on the ground,
the bare trees were waving madly back and forth, and the pines were covered in ice. A little
ways to the west a child pointed out some drift wood floating in the surf. "That's the sailboat
that came ashore last night," he related. "This beach is a dangerous place in bad weather. All
of the crew drowned: I suppose the remains will wash ashore in a
few days." We turned away with a shiver. There are some things, speaking frankly, that just don't
pull me in, and most drama is like that. The affair of "the glass of water", for example,
simply isn't a big deal (it was boring). If I had to be involved in that sort of thing, I'd
run, maybe settle in central Europe. No matter how hard I try, I can't hock my wares in this
financial climate. The state of the arts here is far from state of the art and nowhere near the cutting
edge -- it would take someone with a deft hand and a very, very sharp implement to divide
the crud from the rest here. The whole thing is a matter of politics. Not much develops here
under the current administration. We're in a lull between the time of the rebellion against
authority and the time when the rebels become authorities, and there's not much we do right now other
than be cautious and wait. I do plan to write something tomorrow. It's an in-depth study of the
art of theater as it may come to exist sometime in the days that follow today - not tomorrow,
but years, maybe centuries, after tomorrow. There is a place for it in a politics-themed publication
I won't name, but I don't plan to include much along political lines. So your secrets, such as they
are, are safe.

I have to, though, set down my thoughts about the stage and what happens on it. I have to
be passionate and fixated on my goals, to embody the virtues that our color, red, represents.
It's the only wise course of action. I'm not the only one who thinks so. He who speaks for you,
B., agrees. He's listened to my rants about desires for financial gains. He knows I am committed
to seeing my income matches M.'s, or, preferably, exceeds that sum by a long shot. And he also knows
that if I don't get what I want, I'll express myself in some frightening, if art-related, ways.
In fact, that's probably what I'll do no matter what: scare people with art. Tell me you think
it's a good idea. Or just help me do it, because that'd be better. In1701
Catherine Trotter brought out her first comedy dedicated to Lady Piers . The name of the comedy
was 'love at loss'The ideas of the work was pirated from an old tragedy
which failed to get acted.The show was not accepted by the public
and Catherine give up her career at the age of twenty-two and gone
for higher studies.

After publishing Love at loss Catherine left the town and settled in Salisbury with her sister.
Her friendship with Bishop Burnet was another reason for her choosing Salisbury as her hometown.The
poetess has a strong friendship with the Bishop's second lady who was a theologian . Catherine
described her as 'such a perfection in any of our sex. She visited the Wiltshire society She was
fascinated by the famous singer John Albert who performed a concert at the palace. She even rode
six miles after him to see him performing at Lord Arundell of Wardour's house.She also admired the
Bishop's "volatile aactivity"

.
 Now Mr. William Sidney, the younger brother, who has five children, including his fortune was divided,
these cousins had each only one-fifth of the confidence of Charles, and, of course, the wife
of William Sidney was obliged to restrict many of its current indulgences
in due proportion to their income.

And yet, I have need to say that William, the eldest son, who was about the age of Charles,
and their younger brothers and sisters, were a thousand times happier than his cousin, and, despite
their limited means did more good to others in a month that Carlos did in a year.
First, they were kind and generous to each other. A book, a toy, any source of gratification
that he opened one, it was always the property of the whole family, so a gift or kindness of one of
these children, it was as given in five. So girls, Fanny and Lucy, were so smart and industrious,
they would make clothes for the poor, either by buying thick materials, but warm, with their
own money, or get rid of his own clothes, your Mom gave them permission to use. Like all those
who think more people than themselves, and they are constantly enjoy the pleasure of doing good,
they are joyful and happy, while his cousin Charles, who thought
only of their selfish interests, he spent three days out of four at
the evil spirits and bad humor.

"How I wish to stir the closet," said William one day his cousin, when he by chance have a look into
its socket than it had accumulated.  
"Could you, by the way,"
said Charles, "I can tell you there is nothing there that are of lower
profits. " 

He flew in the door with his grey hair streaming behind him, his face passionate. He takes off
his top hat and uses it to collect all his papers in a flurry of activity.
 In December he was fully recovered because lucky for him
his illness was not of long continuance. At that time an English expedition, commanded by Major
Peddie, (8) went from Senegal to the interior past of Africa. This gentleman had given great assistance
to the unfortunate people in Medusa. We sincerely lamented him dying
soon after his departure. 
(Footnote 8: Vide Note B.) 
On January,
the first 1817, the French took over the colony of Senegal.