With wonderful calmness Beatrice answered that she was quite ready. A little knot of spectators
had gathered outside to see the bride depart. Two or three carriages were there, and into the
first, with the splendid pair of bays, Lord Rashborough handed Beatrice. They drove along the
familiar streets that seemed to Beatrice as though she was seeing them for the last time. She
felt like a doomed woman with the deadly virus of consumption in her blood when she is being
ordered abroad with the uncertain chance that she might never see England again. It almost
seemed to Beatrice that she was asleep, and that the whole thing was being enacted in a dream.

"Here we are at last," Rashborough exclaimed. "What a mob of women! What a lot of flowers!
Why anybody wants to make all this fuss over getting married beats me. Come along."

It was a society wedding in the highest sense of the word, and the church was crowded. There
was a rustle and a stir as the bride swept up the aisle, and the organ boomed out. There was
a little delay at the altar, for the father of the bride had not yet arrived, and there was
a disposition to give him a little latitude. Only Lord Rashborough rebelled.

"Let's get on," he said. "Darryll may be half an hour late. One can never tell. And I've got
a most important appointment at Tattersall's at half-past two."

Beatrice had no objection to make--she would have objected to nothing at that moment. In the
same dreamy way, presently she found herself kneeling at the altar, and a clergyman was saying
something that conveyed absolutely nothing to her intelligence. Presently somebody was fumbling
unsteadily at her left hand, whereon somebody a great deal more nervous than she was trying
to fix a plain gold ring. Someone at the back of the church was making a disturbance.

The officiating clergyman raised his head in protest. Except the exhortation, the ceremony
was practically finished. A policeman appeared out of somewhere and seemed to be expostulating
with the intruder. Just for a minute it looked as if there was going to be an open brawl.

"I tell you I must go up," somebody was saying, and just for a moment it seemed to Beatrice
that she was listening to the voice of Mark Ventmore. "It is a matter of life and death."

Beatrice glanced up languidly at the silly society faces, the frocks and the flowers. Did she
dream, or was that really the pale face of Mark that she saw? Mark had burst from the policeman--he
was standing now hatless before the altar.

"The ceremony must not go on," he said, breathlessly. There was a nameless horror in his white
face. "I--I feel that I am strangely out of place, but it is all too dreadful."

Beatrice rose to her feet. There was some tragedy here, a tragedy reflected in the ghastly
face of her groom. And yet on his face was a suggestion of relief, of vulgar triumph.

"What is it?" Beatrice asked. "Tell me. I could bear anything--now!"

"Your father!" Mark gasped. "We had to burst open his door. Sir Charles was found in his bed
quite dead. He had been dead for some hours when they found him."

CHAPTER V

Mark Ventmore repeated his statement three times before anybody seemed to comprehend the dread
meaning of his words. The shock was so sudden, so utterly unexpected by the majority of the
people there. Of course nobody in that brilliant throng had the least idea of the bride's feelings
in the matter, most of them were privileged guests for the reception. They had been bidden
to a festive afternoon, a theatre had been specially chartered for the evening, with a dance
to follow. This was one of the smart functions of the season.

And now death had stepped in and swept everything away at one breath. People looked at one
another as if unable to take in what had happened. There was a strange uneasiness that might
have been taken for disappointment rather than regret. Perhaps it partook of both. Somebody
a little more thoughtful than the rest gave a sign to the organist who had begun to fill the
church with a volume of triumphal music. The silence that followed was almost painful.

Then as if by common consent, every eye was fixed upon the bride. Beatrice had turned and walked
down the altar steps in the direction of Mark, who advanced now without further opposition.
Beatrice stood there with her hand to her head as if trying to understand it all. She was terribly
white, but absolutely composed.

"Did you say that my father was dead?" she asked.

"I am afraid so," Mark stammered. "He--he has been dead for hours. I came on here as fast as
I could, hoping to be in time to----"

He paused, conscious of the fact that he was about to say something terribly out of place.
Just for an instant Mark had forgotten that he and Beatrice were not alone. He was looking
into her beautiful, dilated eyes, oblivious to the fact of the spectators. He was going to
say that he had hurried there in the hopes of being in time to stop the ceremony. And Beatrice
had divined it, for she flushed slightly. It seemed a terrible thing, but already she had asked
herself the same question. The shock of her father's death had not quite gone home to her yet,
and she could still think about herself. Was she really married to Stephen Richford? Was the
ceremony legally completed? The thought was out of place, but there it was. A mist rose before
the girl's eyes, her heart beat painfully fast.

"Don't you think we ought to do something?" Mark asked.

The question startled Beatrice out of her stupor. She was ready for action. It was as if a
stream of cold water had been poured over her.

"Of course," she cried. "It is wrong to stand here. Take me home at once, Mark."

It was a strange scene strangely carried out. The bridegroom stood irresolute by the altar,
feeling nervously at his gloves, whilst Beatrice, with all her wedding finery about her, clutched
Mark by the arm and hurried him down the aisle. The whole thing was done, and the strangely
assorted pair had vanished before the congregation recovered from their surprise.

"Come back!" Richford exclaimed. "Surely it is my place to----"

Long before Richford could reach the porch, his wife and Mark had entered a hansom and were
on their way to the Royal Palace Hotel. The story had got about by this time; people stopped
to stare at the man in tweeds and the bride in her full array in the hansom. To those two it
did not seem in the least strange.

"Did you manage to see my father, after all?" Beatrice asked.

"No, I tried to do so; you see, I had to wait for him. He was very late, so I fell asleep.
It was after eleven to-day when I awoke to find Sir Charles had not left his room. I ventured
to suggest that he had better be roused or he would be too late for your wedding. Nobody could
make him hear, so the door was broken in. He was quite dead."

Beatrice listened in a dull kind of way. There was no trace of tears in her eyes. She had suffered
so terribly, lately, that she could not cry. The horrible doubt as to whether she was free
or not could not be kept out of her mind. Yet it seemed so dreadfully unnatural.

"He died in his sleep, I suppose?" Beatrice asked.

"That nobody can say yet," Mark said. "The doctor we called in was very guarded. Nobody seems
to have been in the bedroom, though the sitting-room adjoining is not locked, and last night
I saw a lady come out of it, a lady in grey."

"A lady in grey!" Beatrice cried. "What a singular thing, Mark! Do you mean to say it was the
same lady who sat next to you in the Paris theatre?"

"Well, yes," Mark admitted. "It was the same. I have not told anybody but you, and it seems
to me that nothing will be gained by mentioning the fact."

Beatrice nodded thoughtfully. She could not identify the grey lady, the Slave of Silence, with
anything that was wrong. And yet it was strange how that silent woman had come into her life.
She must have been known to Sir Charles or she would never have ventured into his sitting-room.
If she was still staying in the hotel, Beatrice made up her mind to seek her out. There was
some strange mystery here that must be explained. It was uppermost in Beatrice's mind as she
descended from the hansom and passed through the curious group of servants into the hall.

The fine suite of rooms was ready for the festive throng; in the dining-room a banquet had
been spread out. The scarlet flush of red roses gave a warm note to the room; the sun came
streaming through the stained-glass windows, and shone upon the silver and glass and red glow
of wine, and on the gold foil of the champagne bottles. In the centre of the table stood a
great white tower that Beatrice regarded vaguely as her wedding cake. A shudder passed over
her as she looked at it. She longed for something dark and sombre, to hide her diamonds and
the sheen of her ivory satin dress.

The place was silent now; the very bareness and desolation of the scene sickened Beatrice to
the soul. No guests were here now--they were not likely to be. A polite manager was saying
something to the bride, but she did not seem to heed.

"Mr. Marius is talking to you," Mark said. "He wants to know if he can do anything."

"Mr. Marius is very kind," Beatrice said wearily. "I should like to see the doctor. I suppose
that he is still here? May I see him at once?"

The doctor had not gone yet. Mark procured a small plate of dainty sandwiches and a glass of
port wine which he forced Beatrice to take. To her great surprise she found that she was hungry.
Breakfast she had had none; now that the crisis had passed, her natural healthy appetite had
returned. The feeling of faintness that she had struggled against for so long passed away.

The doctor came in, rubbing his hands softly together. He regretted the unfortunate occasion,
but when he had been called in, Sir Charles was long past mortal aid. Evidently he had been
dead for some hours.

"You are in a position to be quite sure of that?" Beatrice asked.

"Oh, quite," Dr. Andrews replied. "One's experience tells that. Sir Charles was quite stiff
and cold. I should say that he had been dead quite four hours when the door was broken down."

Just for an instant the doctor hesitated and his easy manner deserted him.

"I must see Sir Charles's regular medical man before I can be quite definite on that point,"
he said. "I have no doubt that death was caused by natural means, at least I see no reason
at present to believe anything to the contrary. Indeed, if any doubt remains after that, there
must be a post mortem, of course. But still I hope that such a course will not be necessary."

In a vague way Beatrice felt uneasy. If this gentleman was not actually concealing something,
he was not quite so satisfied as he assumed to be.

"I should like to see my father, if I may," Beatrice said quietly.

The doctor led the way to the bedroom and closed the door softly behind the girl. His face
was a little grave and anxious as he walked down the stairs.

"You appear to be a friend of the family," he said to Mark as he stood in the hall. "There
are symptoms about the case which frankly I don't like. There was no occasion to lacerate Miss
Darryll's feelings unduly, but I must see the family doctor at once. It is just possible that
you may happen to know who he is."

Mark was in a position to supply the desired information, and Dr. Andrews drove off, his face
still very grave and thoughtful. Meanwhile Beatrice found herself alone with the dead body
of her father. He was only partially undressed; he lay on the bed as if he had been overcome
with a sudden illness or fatigue. The handsome boyish features were quite composed; there was
a smile on the lips, and yet the expression on the face was one of pain. Sir Charles appeared
to have died as he had lived--gay, careless, and easy to the last. Always neat, he had placed
his studs and tie on the dressing-table; by them stood a little pile of letters which had evidently
come by a recent post. They had been carefully cut open with a penknife, so that Beatrice could
see they had been read.

There were tears in the girl's eyes now, for Beatrice recalled the time when Sir Charles had
been a good father to her in the days before he had dissipated his fortune and started out
with the intention of winning it back in the city. Those had been happy hours, Beatrice reflected.

There was nothing further in the room to call for notice. On the carpet, in contrast to the
crimson ground, lay what looked like a telegram. It was half folded, but there was no mistaking
the grey paper. If there was anything wrong here, perhaps the telegram would throw a light
on it. Beatrice picked up the message and flattened it on her hand. Then she read it with a
puzzled face. Suddenly a flash of illumination came upon her. Her hand clenched the paper passionately.

"Is it possible," she muttered, "that he could have known? And yet the date and the day! Why,
that coward must have known all the time."

A glance at the dead, placid face there recalled Beatrice to herself. Hastily she thrust the
message in her corsage and quietly left the room. Some time had elapsed since Beatrice entered
the hotel, but as yet the man she called her husband had not returned. It seemed strange, but
Beatrice said nothing. She stood regarding her wedding finery with some feeling of disgust.

"I must have a room somewhere and change," she said; "it seems horrible to be walking about
like this when my father is lying dead upstairs. Mark, my woman is here somewhere. Will you
try and find her and send her to Lady Rashborough for something black and quite plain? Meanwhile,
I'll go to a bedroom and get some of this finery off. The mere touch of it fills me with loathing."

Beatrice's maid was discovered at length, and despatched in hot haste to Lady Rashborough's.
Beatrice had scarcely entered before Stephen Richford drove up. He looked anxious and white
and sullen withal, and he favoured Mark with a particularly malevolent scowl. Richford knew
the relationship that had existed at one time between Mark and Beatrice.

"I suppose you must be excused under the circumstances for racing off with my wife in this
fashion," he said hoarsely. It seemed to Mark that he had found time to drink somewhere, though,
as a rule, that was not one of Richford's failings. "Where is she?"

"She has gone to change," Mark said. "This is a very unfortunate business, Mr. Richford."

Richford shrugged his shoulders with an assumption of indifference. His hand trembled slightly.

"Sir Charles was getting on in years," he said; "and Sir Charles had not troubled to give very
great attention to the question of his health. In fact, Sir Charles had gone it steadily. But
it seems now to me that so long as the doctors are satisfied as to the cause of death----"

"I am not at all sure the doctor is satisfied," Mark said significantly. "What's the matter?"

"Nothing, nothing," Richford stammered. "Nothing more than a twinge of that confounded neuralgia
of mine."

CHAPTER VI

Beatrice came down from her room presently, dressed in quiet black. In her hand she carried
not only the telegram but a letter she had taken from the dressing-table of the dead man.

The little group in the hall had by this time been augmented by the presence of Colonel Berrington;
Stephen Richford had slipped off somewhere. Mark had not failed to notice the restlessness
and agitation of his manner.

"I think I have got rid of everybody," Berrington said. "It has been a most distressing business,
and I am afraid that there is worse to come. Dr. Andrews has just telephoned. He has seen Sir
Charles's medical man, and they have decided that there must be an inquest. I don't suggest
that anything is wrong, but there you are."

"I am not surprised," Beatrice said coldly, "I have been to my father's room looking over his
papers. And I found a letter that puzzles me. It was written last night as the date shows,
in the hotel, on hotel paper, and evidently delivered by hand, as the envelope proves. Look
at this."

Colonel Berrington held out his hand for the envelope. He started slightly as he looked at
the neat, clear handwriting. Something was evidently wrong here, Mark thought. The Colonel
was a man of courage, as he very well knew, and yet his fingers trembled as he glanced interrogatively
at Beatrice before he drew the letter from the envelope.

"Yes," Beatrice said; "I want you to read it. I brought it down on purpose."

"There does not seem to be much," Berrington said. "As there is no heading and signature, the
letter may be intended for anybody."

"Only my father's name happens to be on the envelope," Beatrice said quietly. "Pray read it aloud."

Berrington proceeded to do so. There were only two or three lines in which the writer said
that she must see the recipient of the letter without delay, and that it was of no use to try
and keep out of the way. There was nothing more; no threat or sign of anger, nothing to signify
that there was any feeling at all. And yet so much might have been concealed behind those simple
lines. Berrington looked grave, and trembled as he handed the letter back to Beatrice.

"Clearly it is our duty to find out who wrote that letter," Mark observed. "It was written
in the hotel, probably by somebody dining here last night. It is just possible that it was
written by someone who was staying in the hotel. In that case we can easily ascertain the name
of the writer."

"How is that possible?" Berrington demanded. He asked the question quite nervously. "In a place
so large as this, with so many visitors continually going and coming----"

"There is a rigid rule here," Mark proceeded to explain. "Every guest, even if only passing
a single night under the roof, has to sign the visitors' book. With this letter in my hand
I can compare signatures. If there is no signature like this characteristic handwriting, then
our task is no easy one. On the other hand, if there is----"

The speaker paused significantly. Berrington's agitation deepened. With all her distress and
sorrow, Beatrice did not fail to notice it.

"Perhaps you will go down to the office and see at once, Mark," Beatrice suggested.

Ventmore went off obediently enough. Berrington stood watching him for a moment, then he turned
to Beatrice and laid his hand gently on her arm.

"Believe me, this is not going to help anybody," he said in a low voice. "Unless I am greatly
mistaken, I know who wrote that letter. What connection she had with your father and what the
secret was between them I shall perhaps never know. But the lady who wrote that letter----"

"Ah," Beatrice cried, with a flash of sudden inspiration, "it was the grey lady, I am sure of it."

"You have guessed correctly," Berrington went on. "It was the person whom you have elected
to call the grey lady. It was a great shock to me to recognize that handwriting. The secret
is not wholly mine to tell, but for a long time I have been seeking the grey lady. I had not
the remotest idea that she and Sir Charles had anything in common; little did I dream that
she was here in this hotel last night. But whatever may be the meaning of this mystery, if
there has been foul play here, the grey lady is quite innocent of it. Don't ask me to say any
more, because I cannot, I dare not."

Beatrice nodded in sympathy. The brave, grave soldier by her side was terribly agitated; indeed
Beatrice could not have recognized him as being capable of such a display of emotion.

"I am going to believe in you both," she said. "Probably the grey lady was the last person
to see my father alive. She may have told him some terrible news; she may have given him the
shock that killed him. But there was another who knew----"

"What do you mean by that?" Berrington asked.

"Nothing. I have said too much. That is quite between myself and--and could possibly have had
nothing to do with my father's death. Oh, if only Mark had arrived five minutes sooner!"

Berrington knew exactly what was passing through Beatrice's mind.

"A great pity, indeed," he said quietly. "What a difference moments make in our lives. Still----"

"Still there is always the doubt," Beatrice whispered eagerly. A constant throng of people
passed through the great hall where the death of Sir Charles was already forgotten. "I am living
on the doubt, Colonel Berrington; am I or am I not married to Stephen Richford?"

"I could not say," Berrington replied. "I have very little knowledge of these matters. As far
as I could see, the marriage ceremony was completed, the ring was placed on your finger, therefore----"

"Therefore you think that I am married," Beatrice said. She was twisting the gold badge of
servitude on her finger nervously. "I am going to find out for certain. The service was not
quite finished; there was no exhortation, there was no signing of the register. Surely I am
free if it is my desire to be free. After what I found to-day----"

Again Beatrice paused as if aware of the fact that she was saying too much. There was a certain
expression of relief on her face as she saw the figure of Mark approaching.

"Well, have you done anything?" she asked eagerly. "Have you made any great discovery?"

"I have only been partially successful," Mark said. "I have identified the writing with a signature
of a guest in the visitors' book. The lady came only yesterday, as the date is opposite her
writing. She came without a maid and with very little luggage, and she called herself Mrs.
Beacon Light."

"Beacon Light," Beatrice said reflectively. "It sounds like a nom de plume; it suggests the
kind of name a lady novelist would assume. Too singular to be real. And are you quite sure
that the lady wrote that letter to my father?"

"I should say there is very little doubt about it," Mark replied. "The handwritings are identical.
It seems that Mrs. Beacon Light stayed here last night and dined in the red salon. She had
breakfast here very early, and then she paid her bill and departed. The clerk cannot say where
she went, for her small amount of baggage was placed in a hansom and the driver was told to
go in the first instance to Peter Robinson's. That is everything that I could ascertain."

There was no more to be said for the present, and very little to be done. A tall, stiff man,
with an air of Scotland Yard indelibly impressed upon him, came presently, and asked to be
allowed to see Sir Charles's suite of rooms. He had been waited upon at his office, he explained,
by the deceased baronet's medical man, who had suggested the necessity for an inquest, which
had been fixed upon for ten o'clock the following day. Under the circumstances the suite of
rooms would be locked up and the seal of authority placed on them. The inspector was sincerely
sorry to cause all this trouble and worry to Miss Darryll, but she would quite see that he
was doing no more than his duty.

"But why all this fuss?" Stephen Richford demanded. He had come up at the same moment. Troubled
and dazed as Beatrice was, she could not help noticing that Richford had been drinking. The
thing was so unusual that it stood out all the more glaringly. "There's no occasion for an
inquest. Dr. Oswin has told me more than once lately that Sir Charles was giving his heart
a great deal too much to do. This thing has got to be prevented, I tell you."

"Very sorry, sir," the inspector said politely; "but it is already out of private hands. Both
Dr. Oswin and Dr. Andrews have suggested an inquest; they have notified us, and, if they wished
to change their minds now, I doubt if my chief would permit them."

Richford seemed to be on the point of some passionate outburst, but he checked himself. He
laid his hand more or less familiarly on Beatrice's arm, and she could feel his fingers trembling.

"Very well," he said sulkily. "If you have made up your minds as to this course, I have no
more to say. But there is nothing to gain by standing here all day. Beatrice, I have something
to say to you."

"I am quite ready," Beatrice said. "I have also something to say to you. We will go on as far
as my sitting-room. Please don't leave the hotel, Colonel Berrington; I may want you again."

The hard corners of Richford's mouth trembled, but he said nothing. He did not utter a word
until the door of the sitting-room had closed upon Beatrice and himself. He motioned the girl
to a chair, but she ignored the suggestion.

"It is a very awkward situation," Richford began. "As my wife----"

"I am glad you have come so quickly to the point," Beatrice said eagerly. "Am I your wife?
I doubt it. I do not think I am your wife, because the ceremony was not quite completed and
we did not sign the register. You know what my feelings have been all along; I have never made
the slightest attempt to disguise them. If I had known that my father was dead--that he had
died on the way to church, I should never have become Mrs. Stephen Richford. To save my father's
good name I had consented to this sacrifice. My father is dead beyond the reach of trouble.
If I had only known. If I had only known!"

The words came with a fierce whisper. They stung the listener as no outburst of contempt or
scorn could. They told him clearly how the speaker loathed and despised him.

"Nobody did know," he sneered. "Nobody could possibly have known."

"That is not true," Beatrice cried. She had come a little closer to Richford; her cheeks were
blazing with anger, her eyes flamed passionately. "It is a cowardly lie. There was one man
who saw my father after his death, and I am going to prove the fact in a way that cannot possibly
be disputed. One man was in my father's room after his death. That man saw my father lying
there, and he crept away without giving the slightest alarm. You may sneer, you may say that
such a thing is impossible, that the man I allude to would have nothing to gain by such a course;
but as I said before, I am going to prove it. Look at this telegram I hold in my hand. It was
sent before ten o'clock to-day to the person to whom it is addressed. It evidently relates
to some Stock Exchange business. The address is quite clear; the time the telegram was delivered
is quite clear, too; and by the side of my father's body I found the telegram, which could
only have been dropped there by the party to whom it was addressed. So that party knew that
my father was dead, and that party made no alarm. Why?"

"Why," Richford stammered. "Why, because,--well, you see it is quite possible to explain----"

"It is not," Beatrice cried. "The telegram is addressed to you. It was you who called on my
father; you who found him dead. And in your agitation you dropped that message. Then you grasped
the fact that if the marriage was postponed it would never take place, that I was in a position
to defy you. You locked my father's door; you said nothing; you made up your mind to let the
ceremony go on. That accounts for your agitation, for the fact that you have been drinking.
Cowardly scoundrel, what have you to say to this!"

"What are you going to do?" Richford asked sullenly.

"Unless you release me here and now," Beatrice cried, "I swear by Heaven that I am going to
tell the truth!"

CHAPTER VII

Richford stood there shaking and quivering with passion, and yet not free from the vague terror
that Beatrice had noticed all along. Beatrice could not repress a shudder as she looked at
that evil, scowling face. To be with that man always, to share his home and his company, seemed
to her a most impossible thing. She had lost her father; the future was black and hopeless
before her, but she felt a strength and courage now, that she had been a stranger to for a
long time. There was hope, too, which is a fine thing when allied with youth and vitality.

She need not live with this man; she had every excuse for not doing so. Beatrice cared very
little, for the moment, whether she was married or not. It might possibly be that in the eyes
of the law she was this man's wife; the law might compel her to share his home. But now Beatrice
had a weapon in her hand and she knew how to use it.

"Give me that telegram," Richford said hoarsely. "Hand it over to me at once."

He advanced in a manner that was distinctly threatening. Certainly he would not have stopped
at violence if violence would serve his end. But Beatrice was not afraid.

"I shall do nothing of the kind," she said. "You may as well strike me as look at me like that.
If you use violence you may obtain possession of the telegram. But I warn you that I shall
not yield without a struggle that will arouse the whole hotel. I am not coming with you, and
we part here and now. Oh, I am not in the least afraid."

Just at that moment it looked as if the scene of violence would take place. With an oath Richford
grasped the girl by the wrist and drew her to him. A blow full in the face would have laid
her senseless at his feet, then he could have helped himself to that priceless telegram. But
Richford had been in the world long enough to knew how to control his temper when it suited
him to do so. He forced something in the semblance of a smile to his lips.

"Don't let us discuss this question like two silly children," he said. "You have fairly caught
me out. I did go to your father this morning--there was an urgent reason why I should see him.
We need not go into that now, for it was purely on matters of business. If you ask me how I
got into that room when the door was locked, I will tell you. Before I thought of marrying
you and setting up a house of my own, I had that suite of rooms."

"Is all this material to our discussion?" Beatrice asked coldly.

"Yes, I think so. At any rate I never gave up the suite of rooms, and the keys are still in
my possession. That is how I got in to see your father without anybody being the wiser. I was
going to show him the very telegram which has fallen into your hands. But I found that Sir
Charles was dead, and it was a great shock to me. I must have dropped that telegram in my agitation
and forgotten it. So far you follow me, do you not?"

"I follow you," Beatrice said bitterly. "I quite understand; I admire your restraint and your
cunning. You reasoned it all out in a flash. If you raised the alarm everybody would have known
the truth in a few minutes. And, that being so, there would have been no marriage. You took
all the risks, and fortune favoured the bold as fortune always does. Nothing happened until
it was too late, and I was married to you. But there is one thing you failed to reckon upon--that
my father is no longer a pawn in the game."

Beatrice was speaking quietly and steadily enough; she felt that the victory was in her hands
now. And Richford had never coveted her so passionately as he did at this moment when he realized
that she was lost to him for ever.

"My father's death leaves me free," the girl went on. "He is dead and nobody can touch him.
If he had died yesterday the match would have been broken off, as you know. I was prepared
to take my chance. If this vile thing had not happened, then I should have respected my wedding
vows and made you as good a wife as I could. I should have hated and loathed it, but I should
have become accustomed to it in time. But this vile action of yours makes all the difference.
When you and I part after this painful conversation, we part for good. We shall be talked about;
there will be a lot of idle gossip, but I care nothing for that. And if you raise a hand, if
you try to use the law on your side, I produce that telegram and tell my story."

Again the look of mingled rage and terror came into Richford's eyes.

"You talk like a fool," he said hoarsely. "What can you possibly do to get a living? You are
my wife; you can never marry anybody so long as I am alive. You are very pretty, but you have
been brought up to be utterly useless."

"I have strength and courage," Beatrice replied, "and they are worth a good deal. I can go
into a shop if the worst comes to the worst. My relatives, the Rashboroughs----"

"Lady Rashborough will turn her back on you if you do this. She will be furious."

"Well, then, I must depend upon myself. But you are not going to say anything--for some reason
you are too frightened to say anything."

"And all the wedding presents, the diamonds and the like?" Richford asked feebly.

"The wedding presents will go back to the senders. There is a plain clothes policeman keeping
guard over them now--your diamonds are amongst the lot. I will see that they are safely sent
to you. And I do not know that I need say any more."

Beatrice had reached the corridor by this time. She was passing Richford with her head in the
air. It came to him suddenly that he had lost everything, that he was baffled and beaten. In
a sudden spasm of rage he caught the girl by the shoulders in a savage grip. She gave a little
moan of pain as she looked around for assistance. It came quite unexpectedly.

At the same moment Mark Ventmore was coming from his room. He took in the situation at a glance.
With one bound he was by Richford's side, and he had wrenched his hands away. With a snarl
Richford turned upon the man whom he knew to be his successful rival, and aimed a blow at him.
Then Mark's fist shot out, and Richford crashed to the ground with a livid red spot on his
forehead. Sick and dizzy he scrambled to his feet.

"You are more than a match for me that way," he panted. "But there are other ways, my friend,
of wiping that blow out. Look to yourself."

There was a deadly menace in the threat, so that Beatrice shuddered as she watched the retreating
figure. She knew perfectly well that that blow would not be forgotten. Mark laughed as he heard,
then his face changed and he sighed.

"What does it all mean, Beatrice?" he asked. "For that man to lay hands upon you and so soon
after you are--but I cannot bring myself to say the word."

"He was not altogether without excuse, Mark," Beatrice said. "We have come to an understanding.
Never shall I stay under the same roof with Stephen Richford."

"Well, thank God for that," Mark said fervently. "Something unexpected has happened!"

In a few words Beatrice told the story to which Mark listened with vivid interest. An expression
of the deepest disgust came over his face as Beatrice finished her story and handed over the
telegram. At the same time the feeling nearest her heart was one of relief.

"It was the act of a scoundrel, darling," he said. "And yet things might have been worse. For
instance, you might not have found that telegram. But since you have done so, the game is all
in your hands. You are quite right to defy that fellow and refuse to live with him. He dare
not oppose you, Beatrice. Thank Heaven, I shall be able to think of you as pure and free from
contamination. But what are you going to do?"

"I have not thought of that yet," Beatrice said with a faint smile. "For a day or two I shall
get the Rashboroughs to give me a home. When my father's affairs come to be settled up there
will be a little less than nothing for me to have. Still, I have some jewels which may bring
me in a few hundred pounds. But I shall find something to do."

Mark shut his teeth tightly together to keep back the protestations of love that rose to his
lips. It was no time to speak of that kind of thing. He felt that he had been tricked out of
the only girl for whom he had ever cared, but, thank goodness, he would not have to think of
her as dragging out a lengthening chain by the side of Stephen Richford. And Beatrice would
find something to do--of that he felt certain.

"I will come and see you in a few days, dearest," he said. "Though you are bound to that man
by the cruel sport of chance, you still belong to me. There can be no harm in my helping you.
And may God bless and keep you wherever you go, darling."

Mark bent and kissed Beatrice's hand tenderly, and made his way down the stairs. There was
nothing now to stay for; Beatrice would go to her friends, and the strange ending of the Richford-Darryll
marriage would be food for the scandal-mongers for many a day to come. All these thoughts crowded
into Mark's mind as he made his way down into the big dining-room for luncheon. He was sad
and sick at heart, but man must eat, all the same. He did not look as if he could eat here
at present, for every table was filled. The last seat had fallen to Richford, who found himself
seated opposite to Colonel Berrington. Richford would far rather have been anywhere else, but
there was no help for it.

The Colonel bowed coldly to the other's surly nod. Richford belonged to a class that the gallant
soldier frankly detested. He expressed no surprise at seeing Richford here; it was natural
under the circumstances that Beatrice should keep to her own room. And Berrington had heard
nothing of the matter of the telegram.

"Oh, never mind all that rubbish," Richford said testily, as the waiter passed the elaborate
menu with its imposing array of dishes. "What's the good of all that foreign cat's meat to
an honest Englishman? Give me a steak and plain potatoes and a decanter of brandy."

The brandy came before the steak, and Richford helped himself liberally to the liquid. Berrington
was a little astonished. He had more than once heard Richford boast that he was positively
a teetotaller. He usually held in contempt those who called themselves merely moderate drinkers.

"What a time they keep you here," Richford growled. "If I'd gone to one of those City places
I should have got my steak in half the time. Oh, here the fellow comes. Now, then, I----"

Richford paused in his growling, and contemplated the red hot plate on which the steak was
displayed with a queer gleam in his eyes and a clicking of the corners of his mouth. Just for
the moment it seemed to Berrington as if his vis a vis was going to have a fit of some kind.

"There is salt in the plate," Richford gasped. "Who has taken the liberty of putting----"

He said no more; he seemed to be incapable of further speech. The waiter looked sympathetic;
it was no fault of his. And the salt was there, sure enough.

"It certainly is salt," the waiter said. "I did not notice it before. It's a lot of salt, and
it is exactly in the shape of a rifle bullet; it's----When I was in South Africa----"

Berrington's glass clicked as he raised it to his lips. Just for an instant his face was as
pale as that of the man opposite him. With a gesture Richford motioned the waiter away. Then
he rose unsteadily from the table, and finished the rest of his brandy without any water at
all. He crossed the room like a ghost. Directly he had passed the swinging doors Berrington
rose and followed. He saw Richford in the distance entering a hansom; he called one himself.
Evidently he had no desire for Richford to see him.

"Where shall I drive, sir?" the cabman asked.

"Keep that cab in sight without being seen," Berrington said hastily. "Do your work well, and
it will be a sovereign in your pocket. Now drive on."

CHAPTER VIII

The cabman gave a knowing wink and touched his hat. Berrington lay back inside the hansom abstractedly,
smoking a cigarette that he had lighted. His bronzed face was unusually pale and thoughtful;
it was evident that he felt himself on no ordinary errand, though the situation appeared to
be perfectly prosaic. One does not usually attach a romantic interest to a well-dressed military
man in a hansom cab during broad daylight in London. But Berrington could have told otherwise.

"Poor little girl," he muttered to himself. "Sad as her fate is, I did not think it was quite
so sad as this. We must do something to save her. What a fortunate thing it is that I have
always had a love for the study of underground human nature, and that I should have found out
so much that appears only normal to the average eye. That innocent patch of salt in the shape
of a bullet, for instance. Thank goodness, I am on my long leave and have plenty of time on
my hands. My dear little grey lady, even your affairs must remain in abeyance for the present."

The drive promised to be a long one, for half London seemed to have been traversed before the
cabman looked down through the little peep-hole and asked for instructions, as the hansom in
front had stopped.

"The gentleman inside is getting out, sir," he said. "He's stopped at the corner house."

"Go by it at a walk," Berrington commanded, "and see what house our man enters. After that
I will tell you exactly what to do, driver. Only be careful as to the right house."

The cab pulled up at length once more, and the house was indicated. Berrington proceeded a
little further, and then sent his own driver away rejoicing, a sovereign the richer for his
task. Turning up his collar and pulling down his hat, Berrington retraced his steps.

He was enabled to take pretty good stock of the house Richford had entered, and without exciting
suspicion, because there were trees on the opposite side of the road and seats beneath them.
It was a fairly open part of London, with detached houses on the one side looking on to a kind
of park. They were expensive houses, Berrington decided, houses that could not have been less
than two hundred and fifty a year. They looked prosperous with their marble steps and conservatories
on the right side of the wide doorways; there were good gardens behind and no basements. Berrington
could see, too, by the hanging opals in the upper windows that these houses had electric lights.

"This is unusual, very unusual indeed," Berrington muttered to himself, as he sat as if tired
on one of the seats under the trees. "The gentry who cultivate the doctrine that has for its
cult a piece of salt in the shape of a bullet, don't as a rule favour desirable family mansions
like these. Still, fortune might have favoured one of them. No. 100, Audley Place. And No.
100 is the recognized number of the clan. By the way, where am I?"

A passing policeman was in a position to answer the question. Audley Place was somewhat at
the back of Wandsworth Common, so that it was really a good way out of town. The policeman
was friendly, mainly owing to the fact that he was an old soldier, and that he recognized Berrington
as an officer immediately. He was full of information, too.

"Mostly rich City gents live in Audley Place, sir," he said. "There is one colonel, too--Colonel
Foley of the East Shropshire Regiment."

"An old college chum and messmate of mine," Berrington said. "I followed Colonel Foley in the
command of that very regiment. What house does he live in?"

"That's No. 14, sir," the delighted officer grinned. "Excuse the liberty, sir, but you must
be Colonel Berrington, sir. I was with you all through the first Egyptian campaign."

Berrington blessed his own good fortune. Here was the very thing that he wanted.

"We'll fight our battles over again some other day," he said. "I am pretty sure that I shall
see a great deal more of you--by the way, what is your name? Macklin. Thank you. Now tell me
something as to who lives yonder at No. 100. I am not asking out of idle curiosity."

"I can't tell you the gentleman's name, sir," Macklin replied. "But I can find out. The people
have not been there very long. A few good servants, but no men, no ladies so far as I can tell,
and the master what you might call a confirmed invalid. Goes about in a bath chair which he
hires from a regular keeper of this class of thing. Not a very old gent, but you can't quite
tell, seeing that he is muffled up to his eyes. Very pale and feeble he looks."

Berrington muttered something to himself and his eyebrows contracted. Evidently he was a good
deal puzzled by what he had heard.

"That is very strange," he said, "very strange indeed. I will not disguise from you, Macklin,
that I have a very strong reason for wishing to know everything about No. 100, Audley Place.
Keep your eyes open and glean all the information you possibly can. Talk to the servants and
try to pump them. And write to me as soon as you have found out anything worth sending. Here
is my card. I shall do no good by staying here any longer at present."

The policeman touched his helmet and strode on his way. Berrington strolled along under the
friendly shadow of the trees till he had left Audley Place behind him. Once clear of the terrace
he called a cab and was whirled back to town again.

Meanwhile, absolutely unconscious of the fact that he was being so closely shadowed, Richford
had been driven out Wandsworth way. He did not look in the least like a modern millionaire
of good health and enviable prospects as he drove along. His moody face was pale, his lips
trembled, his eyes were red and bloodshot with the brandy that he had been drinking. The hand
that controlled the market so frequently shook strangely as Richford pressed the bell of No.
100 Audley Place. There was no suggestion of tragedy or mystery about the neat parlourmaid
who opened the door.

"Mr. Sartoris desires to see me," Richford said. "He sent me a messenger--a message to the
Royal Palace Hotel. Will you please tell him I am here."

The neat parlourmaid opened the drawing-room door and ushered Richford in. It was a big room
looking on the street, but there was nothing about it to give the place the least touch of
originality. The furniture was neat and substantial, as might have befitted the residence of
a prosperous City man, the pictures were by well-known artists, the carpet gave to the feet
like moss. There was nothing here to cause Richford to turn pale, and his lips to quiver.

He paced up and down the room uneasily, starting at every sound until the maid returned and
asked if the gentleman would be good enough to step this way. Richford followed down a passage
leading to the back of the house into a room that gave on to a great conservatory. It was a
fine room, most exquisitely furnished; flowers were everywhere, the big dome-roofed conservatory
was a vast blaze of them. The room was so warm, too, that Richford felt the moisture coming
out on his face. By the fire a figure sat huddled up in a great invalid chair.

"So you have come," a thin voice said. "Most excellent Richford, you are here. I was loath
to send for you on this auspicious occasion, but it could not be helped."

There was the faintest suggestion of a sneer in the thin voice. Richford crossed the room and
took another chair by the side of the invalid. The face of the man who called himself Carl
Sartoris was as pale as marble and as drawn as parchment, the forehead was hard and tangled
with a mass of fair hair upon it, the lips were a little suggestive of cruelty. It was the
dark eyes that gave an expression of life and vitality, surprising in so weak a frame. Those
eyes held the spectator, they fascinated people by their marvellous vitality.

"What devil's work are you upon now?" Richford growled.

"My dear sir, you must not speak to an invalid like that," Sartoris said. "Do you not know
that I am sensitive as to my own beloved flowers? It was my flowers that I asked you to come
and see. Since you were here last, the room has been entirely redecorated. It seemed to me
to be good that I should share my artistic joy with so congenial a companion."

"Damn your flowers!" Richford burst out passionately. "What a cruel, unfeeling fellow you are!
Always the same, and will be the same till the devil comes for you."

"Which sad event you would regard with philosophic equanimity," Sartoris laughed. "So, we will
get to business as soon as possible. I see that Sir Charles Darryll is dead. I want to know
all about that affair without delay. What did he die of?"

"How should I know? Old age and too much pleasure. And that's all I can tell you. I found him
first."

"Oh, indeed. The evening paper says nothing about that."

"For the simple reason that the evening papers don't know everything," Richford growled. "Quite
early to-day I found Sir Charles dead in his bed. I dared not say a word about it, because,
as you know, I was going to marry his daughter. But, of course, you all knew about that, too.
You see if I had made my little discovery public, Beatrice would have known that death had
freed her and her father from certain very unpleasant consequences that you and I wot of, and
would have refused to meet me at the altar. So I locked the door and discreetly said nothing,
my good Sartoris."

The little man in the invalid chair rolled about horribly and silently.

"Good boy," he said. "You are a credit to your parents and the country you belong to. What next?"

"Why, the wedding, of course. Lord Rashborough, as head of the family, was giving Beatrice
away. Sir Charles did not turn up, but nobody wondered, as he had never been known to attend
to an appointment in his life. And so we were married."

Once more the little man shook with unholy mirth.

"And the girl knows nothing about it?" he asked. "I suppose you'll tell her some day when she
is not quite so loving as she might be? Ho, ho; it is a joke after my own heart."

Richford laughed in his turn, then his face grew dark. He proceeded to tell the rest of the
story. The little man in the chair became quieter and quieter, his face more like parchment
than ever. His eyes blazed with a curious electric fire.

"So you have lost your wife before you have found her?" he asked. "You fool! you double-dyed
fool! If that girl chooses to tell her story, suspicion falls on you. And if anybody makes
a fuss and demands an inquest or anything of that kind----"

"They are going to hold an inquest, anyway," Richford said sulkily. "Dr. Andrews was in favour
of it from the first, and the family doctor, Oswin, has agreed. The police came around and
sealed up that suite of rooms before I left the hotel. But why this fuss?"

"Silence, fool!" came from the chair in a hissing whisper. "Let me have time to think. That
senseless act of folly of yours over the telegram bids fair to ruin us all. You will say so
yourself when you hear all that I have to tell you. Oh, you idiot!"

"Why?" Richford protested. "How did I know Sir Charles was going to die? And if his death took
place in a perfectly natural manner and there was no foul play----"

"Oh, if it did. Perhaps it was wrong on my part not to take you more fully into my confidence.
But there is one thing certain. Listen to me, Richford. Whatever happens between now and this
time to-morrow there must be no inquest on the body of Sir Charles Darryll!"

The words came with a fierce hissing indrawing of the speaker's breath. He tried to get up
from his chair, and fell back with a curse of impotence.

"Push me along to the door," he said. "Take me to that little room behind the library where
you have been before. I am going to show you something, and I'm going to reveal a plot to you.
We shall want all your brutal bulldog courage to-night."

The chair slid along on its cushioned wheels, the door closed with a gentle spring, and, as
it did, a female figure emerged from behind a great bank of flowers just inside the conservatory.
She crossed on tip-toe to the door and as gently closed it. As the light fell it lit up the
pale sad features of the grey lady--the Slave of Silence.

CHAPTER IX

It was with a sigh of relief that Beatrice found herself at length alone. There was nothing
for her to do now but to get her belongings together and leave the hotel. There would be an
inquest on the body of Sir Charles at ten o'clock the following morning, as the authorities
had already informed her, but Beatrice had looked upon this as merely a formal affair. She
would pack her things and leave them in Sir Charles's dressing-room--the door of which had
not been sealed--and send for everything on the morrow. All her costly presents, including
the wonderful diamonds from Stephen Richford, she had entirely forgotten. A somewhat tired
detective was still watching the jewels in a room off the hall where the wedding breakfast
was laid out. But the fact had escaped Beatrice's attention.

Lady Rashborough was having tea alone in her boudoir when Beatrice arrived. Her pretty little
ladyship was not looking quite so amiable as usual and there was the suggestion of a frown
on her face. She had been losing a great deal at bridge lately, and that was not the kind of
pastime that Rashborough approved. He was very fond of his empty, hard, selfish, little wife,
but he had put his foot down on gambling, and Lady Rashborough had been forced to give her
promise to discontinue it. The little woman cared nothing for anyone but herself, and she had
small sympathy for Beatrice.

"What are you doing here?" she asked pettishly. "Where is your husband?"

"That I cannot tell you," Beatrice replied. "You hardly expected that I should have started
on my honeymoon under such circumstances, did you?"

"My dear child, don't talk nonsense! Of course not. The proper thing is to go to some very
quiet hotel and dine respectably--to lie low till the funeral is over. Of course this is all
very annoying, especially as you have such a lovely lot of new frocks and all the rest of it,
but I dare say they will come in later on. Not that it matters, seeing that you have a husband
who could stifle you in pretty frocks and never miss the money. What a funny girl you are,
Bee. You don't seem to appreciate your good luck at all."

"You regard me as exceedingly lucky, then?" Beatrice asked quietly.

"My dear girl, lucky is not the word for it. Of course Stephen Richford is not what I call
an ideal husband, but with his amazing riches----"

"Which are nothing to me, Adela," Beatrice said. "I have discovered the man to be a degraded
and abandoned scoundrel. From the first I always hated and detested him; I only consented to
marry him for the sake of my father. Adela, I am going to tell you the discovery that I made
in my father's bedroom this morning."

In a few words Beatrice told her story. But if she expected any outburst of indignation from
her listener, she was doomed to disappointment. The little figure in the big arm chair didn't
move--there was a smile of contempt on her face.

"Good gracious, what a little thing to fuss about!" she cried. "It seems to me that the man
was paying you a compliment. If I had been in your place I should have said nothing till I
wanted to get the whip hand of my husband. My dear child, you don't mean to say that you are
going to take the matter seriously!"

Beatrice felt the unbidden tears gathering in her eyes. She had been sorely taxed and shaken
to-day, and she was longing more than she knew for a little sympathy. People had told her before
that Lady Rashborough had no heart, and she was beginning to believe it.

"Do you mean to say," Beatrice stammered, "do you really want me to believe--that----"

"Of course I do, you goose. Money is everything. I married Rashborough because it was the best
thing that offered, and I did not want to overstay my market. It was all a question of money.
I would have married a satyr if he had been rich enough. And you sit there telling me that
you are going to leave Stephen Richford."

"I shall never speak to him again. He and I have finished. I have no money, no prospects, no
anything. But I decline to return to Stephen Richford."

"And so you are going to have a fine scandal," Lady Rashborough cried, really angry at last.
"You think you are going to hang about here posing as a victim till something turns up. I dare
say that Rashborough would be on your side because he is of that peculiar class of silly billy,
but you may be sure that I shall not stand it. As a matter of fact, you can't stay here, Beatrice.
I rather like Richford; he gives me little tips, and he has helped me over my bridge account
more than once. If he should come here to dinner----"

Beatrice rose, her pride in arms at once. It was put pretty well, but it was cold, and hard,
and heartless, and the gist of it was that Beatrice was practically ordered out of the house.
She had hoped to remain here a few weeks, at any rate until she could find rooms. She was pleased
to recall that she had not sent her things.

"You need not trouble to put it any more plainly," she said coldly. "In the eyes of your Smart
Set, I have done a foolish thing, and you decline to have me here for the present. Very well,
I shall not appeal to Frank, though I am quite sure what he would say if I did. All the same,
I could not tax the hospitality of one who tells me plainly that she does not want me."

Beatrice rose and moved towards the door. With a little toss of her head, Lady Rashborough
took up the French novel she had been reading as Beatrice entered. Thus she wiped her hands
of the whole affair; thus in a way she pronounced the verdict of Society upon Bee's foolish
conduct. But the girl's heart was very heavy within her as she walked back to the Royal Palace
Hotel. It was only an earnest of the hard things that were going to happen.

And she had no money, nothing beyond a stray sovereign or two in her purse. She had taken off
most of her jewellery with the exception of an old diamond bangle of quaint design. She hated
the sight of it now as she hated the sight of anything that suggested wealth and money. With
a firm resolve in her mind, Beatrice turned into a large jeweller's shop in Bond Street. The
firm was very well known to her; they had supplied the family for years with the costly trifles
that women love. The head of the house would see her at once, and to him Beatrice told her
story. A little later, and with a comfortably lighter heart, she made her way back to the Royal
Palace Hotel with a sum of money considerably over two hundred pounds in her purse.

The manager of the hotel was sympathetic. Unfortunately the house was full, but Beatrice could
have Sir Charles's sitting-room and the dressing-room where a bed could be put up. And would
Mrs. Richford--Beatrice started at the name--give instructions as to those presents?

"I had quite forgotten them," Beatrice said. "Will you please have everything, except some
jewels that I will take care of, locked up in your safe. There are some diamonds which I am
going to give into the hands of Mr. Richford at once. I am so sorry to trouble you."

But it was no trouble at all to the polite manager. He begged that Mrs. Richford would let
him take everything off her hands. Wearily Beatrice crept down to dinner with a feeling that
she would never want to eat anything again. She watched that brilliant throng about her sadly;
she sat in the drawing-room after dinner, a thing apart from the rest. A handsome, foreign-looking
woman came up to her and sat down on the same settee.

"I hope you will not think that I am intruding," the lady said. "Such a sad, sad time for you,
dear. Did you ever hear your father speak of Countess de la Moray?"

Beatrice remembered the name perfectly well. She had often heard her father speak of the Countess
in terms of praise. The lady smiled in a sad, retrospective way.

"We were very good friends," she said. "I recollect you in Paris when you were quite a little
thing. It was just before your dear mother died. You used to be terribly fond of chocolates,
I remember."

The lady rambled on in a pleasing way that Beatrice found to be soothing. Gradually and by
slow degrees she began to draw out the girl's confidence. Beatrice was a little surprised to
find that she was telling the Countess everything.

"You are quite right, my dear," she said quietly. "The heart first--always the heart first.
It is the only way to happiness. Your father was a dear friend of mine, and I am going to be
a friend of yours. I have no children; I had a daughter who would have been about your age
had she lived."

The Countess sighed heavily.

"I would never have allowed a fate like yours to be hers. I go back home in a few days to my
chateau near Paris. It is quiet and dull perhaps, but very soothing to the nerves. It would
give me great pleasure for you to accompany me."

Beatrice thanked the kind speaker almost tearfully. It was the first touch of womanly sympathy
she had received since her troubles had begun, and it went to her heart.

"It is very, very good of you," she said. "A friend is what I sorely need at present. When
I think of your goodness to a comparative stranger like me----"

"Then don't think of it," the Countess said almost gaily. "Let us get rid of that horrible
man first. You must return those fine diamonds to him. Oh, I know about the diamonds, because
I read an account of them in the papers. Perhaps you have already done so?"

"No," Beatrice said, "they are in my dressing-room at the present moment."

"Oh, the careless girl! But that shows how little you value that kind of thing. Well, General,
and what do you want with me at this time of the evening?"

A tall, military man had lounged up to them. He was exquisitely preserved. He bowed over Beatrice's
hand as he was introduced as General Gastang.

"Delighted to meet you," he said. "I knew your father slightly. Countess, your maid is wandering
in a desolate way about the corridor, looking for you, with some story of a dressmaker."

"Ma foi, I had quite forgotten!" the Countess exclaimed. "Do not go from here, chérie; talk
to the General till I return, which will not be long. Those dressmakers are the plague of one's
life. I will be back as soon as possible."

The General's manner was easy and his tongue fluent. Beatrice had only to lean her head back
and smile faintly from time to time. The General suddenly paused--so suddenly that Beatrice
looked up and noticed the sudden pallor of his face, his air of agitation.

"You are not well?" the girl asked. "The heat of the room has been too much for you."

The General gasped something; with his head down he seemed to be avoiding the gaze of a man
who had just come into the drawing-room. As the newcomer turned to speak to a lady, the General
shot away from Beatrice's side, muttering something about a telegram. He had hardly vanished
before Beatrice was conscious of a cold thrill.

After all she knew nothing of these people. Such scraps of her history as they had gleaned
might have come from anybody. Then Beatrice had another thrill as she recollected the fact
that she had told this strange Countess that the diamonds were in her dressing-room. Suppose
those two were in league to----

Beatrice waited to speculate on this point no longer. She hurried from the room and up the
stairs to her bedroom. The corridors were practically deserted at this time in the evening.
Beatrice gave a sigh of relief to see that her door was shut. She placed her hand gently on
the handle, but the door did not give.

It was locked on the inside! From within came whispering voices. In amaze, the girl recognized
the fact that one of the voices belonged to Countess de la Moray, and the other to the man
who called himself her husband, Stephen Richford.

There was nothing for it now but to stay and wait developments.

CHAPTER X

Beatrice had not long to wait. Only a few minutes elapsed before the door flew open and Richford
came out so gently that Beatrice had barely time to step into a friendly doorway. Her senses
were quick and alert now in the face of this unknown danger, and the girl did not fail to note
the pale face and agitated features of the man who had so grievously harmed her. Evidently
Richford had been drinking no more, but certainly he had had some great shock, the effects
of which had not passed away. He muttered something as he passed Beatrice, and looked at his
watch. Directly he had disappeared down the corridor, Beatrice stepped into her room.

The Countess was standing by the dressing-table picking up the odds and ends there in a careless
kind of way, but evidently in an attitude of deep attention. Beatrice's feeling of alarm became
somewhat less as she saw that the case of diamonds on the dressing-table had not been touched.
If anything like a robbery had been contemplated she was in time to prevent it. Just for the
moment it occurred to Beatrice to demand coldly the reason for the intrusion, but she thought
the better of that. Clearly there was some conspiracy on foot here, and it would be bad policy
to suggest that she suspected anything. So Beatrice forced a little smile on her lips as she
crossed the room.

"I shall have to give you in charge as being a suspicious character," she said. "I shall begin
to believe that your dressmaker only existed in your imagination."

The Countess gave a little scream, and her face paled somewhat under her rouge. But she recovered
herself with marvellous quickness. Her lips had ceased to tremble, she smiled gaily.

"I am fairly caught," she said. "There is nothing for it but to plead guilty and throw myself
on the mercy of the court. You see, I have not taken the diamonds, though I have looked at them."

It was all so admirably and coolly said, that it might have deceived anybody who did not know
quite so much as Beatrice. But she had made up her mind that no suspicion of the truth should
come out. Quite carelessly she opened the lid of the jewel cases so that she might see for
herself that she was not the victim of this magnificent adventuress.

But the gems were there right enough. Their marvellous rays seemed to fill the room with livid
fire. Beatrice glanced at her companion; the latter had caught her underlip fiercely between
her teeth, her hands were clenched. And Beatrice knew that but for the intervention of that
stranger in the drawing-room and the sudden flight of the General, she would never have seen
those diamonds again. And yet Stephen Richford had been in the same room with this brilliant
adventuress! Beatrice would have given a great deal to see to the bottom of the mystery.

"Oh, it is indeed a narrow escape that you have had," the Countess said. "I was not feeling
very well, so I sent my maid to ask you to come to my room. She said you had already gone,
so I took the liberty of coming here. Is not that so?"

"Then we had perhaps better stay and talk here," Beatrice suggested. "Adeline, will you take
this case down to the office and ask the manager to place it with my other valuables in the
safe? Be very careful, because they are diamonds."

Adeline, who had just come in, took the case in her hand. The Countess had turned her back,
but Beatrice caught sight of her face in the cheval glass. It was livid with fury, and all
wrinkled up with greed and baffled cupidity. The girl was afraid to trust her voice for a moment.
She knew now that unless she had taken this course, the diamonds would not have been hers much
longer. A woman who could look like that was capable of anything. Some cunning plan, perhaps
some plan that took violence within its grasp, would have been carried out before the evening
was over. So alarmed was Beatrice that she followed Adeline to the door. She wanted to see
the jewels safe and regain her lost self-possession at the same time. It seemed to be a critical
moment.

"If you will excuse me," she said, "I had forgotten to give my maid another message."

The Countess nodded and smiled gaily. She was master of herself once more. Beatrice stepped
out of the room and followed Adeline at a safe distance to the end of the stairs. So far as
she knew to the contrary a confederate might be lingering about waiting for a signal. Surely
enough, General Gastang was loitering in the hall smoking a cigarette. But he seemed to be
powerless now, for he made no sign, and with a sigh of relief Beatrice saw Adeline emerge presently
from the office minus the cases which she had previously carried.

"Now, I fancy I have finished my business for the evening," Beatrice said. "I have been thinking
over the very kind offer you made to me a little time ago. You can hardly understand how anybody
as lonely as myself appreciates such kindness as yours."

The Countess raised her hands as if to ward off the gratitude. They were slim hands with many
rings upon them, as Beatrice did not fail to notice.

And on the finger of the left hand something was hanging that looked like a wisp of silk thread.

"Excuse me," Beatrice said, "you have something attached to one of your rings. Let me remove
it for you. That is all right. It seems very strange, but----"

Beatrice checked herself suddenly and walked rapidly across the room. She had made what in
the light of recent events was a startling discovery. At first she had imagined that the long
silken fluff was attached to one of the rings, but this her quick eyes had proved to be a mistake.
On one of the slim fingers of the Countess was a thick smear of wax.

Beatrice could see a little of it sticking to the palm of the hand now. She understood what
this meant. That neat little woman was by no means the sort of person to dabble habitually
in tricks of that kind, and Beatrice suddenly recollected that wax was used for taking impressions
of locks and keys and the like. But surely there could be nothing worth all that trouble in
this room, she thought. Nor would anything of that kind have been necessary to get possession
of the jewels. Besides, if any waxen impression of anything had been taken, Stephen Richford
would have done it. Just for a moment it occurred to Beatrice that it would be a good idea
to change her room, but she dismissed the impulse as cowardly, and besides, the manager had
advised her that he had not another room at his disposal in the hotel.

Still, she was on her guard now, and she made up her mind to slumber lightly to-night. After
all the exciting events of the day, it was not likely that she would sleep at all. And yet
she felt very dull and heavy; she could think of nothing to say, so that the Countess rose
presently and proclaimed the fact that she was quite ready for bed herself.

"I am selfish," she said. "I am keeping you up, for which I should be ashamed of myself. Good-night,
my dear, and pleasant dreams to you."

The speaker flitted away with a smile and a kiss of her jewelled fingers. Beatrice drew a long
sigh of relief to find herself alone once more.

She locked the door carefully and commenced a thorough examination of the room. It was some
time before her quick eyes gave her any clue to the meaning of the wax on the Countess's hands.
Then she found it at last. There was another of the silken threads hanging on the lock of the
door leading to the room where Sir Charles lay. On the official seal placed there by the police
officers was a tiny thread of silk. It was not attached to the seal in any way. It came away
in Beatrice's hands when she pulled it, as if it had been fixed there by gum. Beatrice knew
better than that. On the silk was wax, as she discovered when her hand touched it. A piece
of soft white wax had been pressed on the seal, and had left strong traces behind.

Now, what did this strange mystery mean? Beatrice asked herself. Why did anybody require an
impression of that seal? What object could anyone have in getting into the room where the dead
man lay? The more Beatrice asked herself this question the more puzzled did she become. She
thought it over till her head ached and her eyes grew heavy. So engrossed was she that she
quite failed to notice several little impatient knocks at the door. Then the girl came to herself
with a start, and opened the door to admit her maid, as she expected.

But it was not Adeline come back, but the Countess with a dazzling white silk wrap over her
shoulders. She was profoundly apologetic, but what was she to do? Her maid had been taken ill
and she had been commanded to bed by a doctor. The Countess was very sorry for Marie, but she
had a little sympathy left for herself. It was impossible for her to unhook the back of her
dress. Would Beatrice be so kind as to do it for her?

"Of course I will," Beatrice said. "It is awkward being without a maid. Let me shut the door."

It was no great task that Beatrice had set herself, but it was not rendered any more easy because
the Countess pranced about the room as if unable to keep still. She held in her hand a smelling
bottle with a powerful perfume that Beatrice had never smelt before. It was sweet yet pungent,
and carried just a suggestion of a tonic perfume with it. But the task was accomplished at length.

"I fancy that is all you require," Beatrice said. "What scent is that you are using?"

"It is some new stuff from Paris," the Countess said carelessly. "It is supposed to be the
most marvellous thing for headaches in the wide world. Personally, I find it a little too strong.
Do you like perfumes?"

"I am afraid they are a weakness of mine," Beatrice confessed. "It is very silly, I know, but
it is so."

The Countess removed the glass stopper from the bottle.

"Try it, if you like," she said. "Only you must not take too much of it at first."

Beatrice placed the bottle to her nostrils. A delicious thrill passed through her veins. All
sense of fatigue had gone; she felt conscious of only one thing, and that was the desire to
lie down and sleep. In a dreamy way she watched the Countess depart and close the door behind
her; then she crossed over to the bed and lay on it just as she was--her thoughts seemed to
be steeped in sunshine.

When Beatrice awoke at length, it was broad daylight, and Adeline was leaning over her. The
girl's face was white and her lips unsteady.

"I am glad you have come round, Miss," she said. "You wouldn't believe the trouble I have had
to arouse you, and you such a light sleeper as a rule. Don't you feel well?"

"I never felt better in my life," Beatrice said. "I have slept for hours and hours. But it
is for me to ask if you don't feel well, Adeline. Your face is so curiously white and your
lips tremble. What is it? Has something happened? But that is quite out of the question. All
the dreadful things came together yesterday. Tell me, what time is it, Adeline?"

"It's a little past ten, Miss," Adeline said in a low voice that shook a little. "On and off,
I have been trying to wake you since eight o'clock. And there is a gentleman to see you in
the sitting-room as soon as you have time--two gentlemen, in fact."

Beatrice asked no further questions, though she could see from Adeline's manner that something
out of the common had taken place. But Beatrice felt curiously strong and steady to-day. It
seemed impossible that fate could have anything worse in store than had already befallen her.
With a firm step she went into the sitting-room where two men rose and bowed gravely. One she
recognized as the inspector of police who had come after the tragedy yesterday, the other was
Dr. Andrews.

"You sent for me, gentlemen?" she said quietly. "It is a matter of the inquest, of course?
Will you have to call me? I am afraid I can give you no information--my father never had anything
the matter with him as far as I know. If you could spare me the pain----"

Dr. Andrews nodded gravely; he seemed unable to speak for the moment.

"It is not that," he said quietly. "If we spare you one pain we give you another. Miss Darryll,
I should say Mrs. Richford, a terrible thing has happened, a strange, weird thing. As you know,
the inquest was to have been to-day. Events have rendered that utterly impossible. Please be
brave."

"You will not have to complain of me on that score," Beatrice whispered.

"Then it is this. By some strange means, certain people entered Sir Charles's room last night
and carried him away. It is amazing, but the body of Sir Charles has disappeared!"

CHAPTER XI

Beatrice reached out a hand and steadied herself against a chair. Just for a moment the whole
world seemed to be spinning around her. Brave and courageous as she was, these shocks, coming
one after the other, had been too much for her. When she opened her eyes again she found that
Mark Ventmore was standing by her side.

"Courage, darling," he whispered. "We seem to have come to the worst of everything. Whatever
may be the result and meaning of this dastardly outrage, nothing can hurt your father."

The colour was slowly coming back into the girl's pallid lips. With an effort she struggled
for the possession of herself. She was alone in the world, she had a position that would cause
most of her women friends to turn coldly from her, but Mark remained. And there was always
the feeling that she had nothing further to fear from Stephen Richford.

"I can bear it all now," she said. "Tell me everything, please."

"Up to the present there is very little to say," Inspector Field observed. "I came here a little
before ten this morning to open Sir Charles's bedroom so as to be prepared for the visit of
the jury and the coroner. After the decision arrived at by both doctors, of course the inquest
to-day would have been quite formal. It would have been deferred for a few days pending the
post-mortem examination. I am putting it as delicately as possible."

"Oh, I know, I know," Beatrice said with a shudder. "Only it is a dreadful thing for a daughter
to listen to. Will you go on, please?"

"In the course of my duty I have to see that the seals have not been tampered with. Of course
in a large hotel like this, where guests are in the corridor all day and night, I never for
a moment anticipated anything wrong. Still, I examined the seals carefully and they appeared
to me to be absolutely intact. With my sergeant we broke the seals and entered the room, the
door of which was locked. Imagine our astonishment when we found that the body of the poor
gentleman had vanished. In all the extraordinary cases that have ever come under my notice,
I never recollect anything so amazing as this."

It was amazing, stupendous--so much so, that nobody spoke for a little time. Beatrice had taken
a seat and sat waiting for somebody to ask questions. She was no longer dazed and frightened;
her brain was working rapidly. It seemed to her that she would be able to throw a light on
this mysterious disappearance presently.

"Are you quite sure that the seals are intact?" Mark asked.

"If you had asked me that question half an hour ago, I should have said most assuredly so,
sir," Field replied. "I looked carefully to see. We always do. How on earth a body could have
been spirited away like this with people about till late, to say nothing of the night watchman
going his rounds, and the night porter down below--but we need not go into that yet. My seals
appeared to be in perfect order."

"But that really could not have been the fact," Mark persisted. "I fancy we can dispense with
the idea that Sir Charles was removed by spiritual agency. Now, would it not have been possible
for anyone to have taken an impression of the seals?"

"Just possible," Field admitted. "But what would have been the use of----"

"A great deal of use, it seems to me," Mark went on. "But I will come to that presently. Let
us take one thing at a time. For some reason or other, those scoundrels have found it imperatively
necessary to spirit away the body of Sir Charles. Perhaps they are afraid of the result of
a post-mortem. That is another point we need not bother about for the present. Did you give
any orders to the watchman here to keep an eye on that door?"

"Well, I did," Field admitted. "I particularly mentioned the seals, in case any very zealous
housemaid, imagining that somebody had been disfiguring the doors, should remove them."

"Then if the seals had been broken, the night watchman would have noticed it?"

"I should say that such a thing was highly possible," Field admitted with an admiring glance
in the direction of his questioner. "Really, sir, you would make an admirable detective. You
mean that the scoundrels might require some little time in the next room and that any interruption----"

"Precisely," Mark proceeded. "Let us admit, for the sake of argument, that these men were staying
in the hotel last night. Where so many people come and go, they would not be noticed, and,
on the whole, that plan would be safer. If they were seen, even in the dead of night, in the
corridor--possibly in slippers and pajamas--by the watchman, no suspicion would have been aroused.
Previously they had managed to get an impression of the seal and made one like it. They then
broke the seal and entered the room by means of a master key. The confederate outside immediately
clapped on another seal, and those inside were quite safe until they were ready. After the
body was stolen, another seal was affixed which gave them plenty of time and prevented discovery
by the night watchman, to say nothing of the addition of mystery to the thing."

The inspector nodded approvingly. So far as he could see, the reasoning was perfectly clear.
But then it did not tend to throw any light on the strange disappearance of the body.

"So far I follow you perfectly, sir," Field said. "Nothing could be clearer or more logical.
In that way it would be comparatively easy to enter the bedroom and make preparations for the
removal of the body without any chance of being interrupted. At this part the real trouble
begins. The body is a bulky thing, and has to be removed from the hotel. How was that to be
done? How could it be done without somebody knowing? That is where I am at fault."

"It could be done in this way," Mark said. "The body might have been removed to a bedroom close
by and packed in a large trunk by somebody who ostensibly was going by a very early train."

"Pardon me," the inspector interrupted, "nobody went by an early train. We have gone into that
most carefully. Of course a lot of people have left early to-day--as they do every day--but,
so far as I can hear, nobody in the least suspicious."

"Then it was done in another manner. It is not quite clear to me how, at present, although
I have my idea on the subject. Before I could speak definitely on that point I should like
to see the night watchman and the hall porter."

But neither of these officials was present. They had gone off duty at seven o'clock, and they
did not return again till late in the afternoon. It seemed a pity to disturb their rest, but
Field decided that they must be sent for--and indeed he had already dispatched a messenger
for that purpose. Till the two men came to the hotel, nothing further could be done in that
direction. There was a little pause here.

"I fancy I can throw some light on this," Beatrice said. "In the first place, will somebody
ascertain for me whether the Countess de la Moray and General Gastang are still staying in
the hotel? I feel pretty sure they are gone, but it is just possible that such may not be the
case. Let this inquiry be made delicately, please."

Inspector Field departed to ask the question himself. He came back presently with the information
that the General and the Countess had already gone, in fact they had not really been staying
in the hotel at all--their luggage was elsewhere, as the hotel they generally favoured was
full--they had only come to the Royal Palace Hotel for the night, and it had been their intention
to proceed to Paris in the morning.

"Then it is General Gastang and the Countess de la Moray that we have to look after," Beatrice
cried. "The Countess came to me last night in the drawing-room. She professed to be an old
friend of my father, and, indeed, I must confess that she knew a great deal about the family.
She was very nice indeed, and asked me to go and stay with her near Paris. Being a little lonely
just at present, I quite took to her. Subsequently the General was introduced to me. He brought
a message to the Countess, who excused herself. Then some stranger came in and the General
vanished. He was quite taken aback for a moment, and evidently went in deadly fear of being
recognized. Of course this aroused my suspicions. I had heard of these well-dressed, good-class
swindlers in hotels before, and immediately I thought of my jewels. I went straight to my room
and the door was locked. People were talking inside and I waited. Then the door opened and
a man came out and walked away."

"Would you recognize that man again, Miss?" Field asked eagerly.

"I should certainly be able to recognize him again," Beatrice said quietly. She passed the
point over rapidly. Something prevented her--shame, perhaps--from saying it was the man who
called himself her husband. "After that I entered my room. The Countess was taken aback, but
very quickly she recovered herself. Then I noticed that there was a thread of silk sticking
to her hands, and after that I further noticed that her hand was covered with wax. Even then
the truth did not dawn upon me till I saw a similar thread sticking to the seal on the door
leading to my father's room. And then I knew that the Countess had taken an impression of the
seal. They did not dare to take the impression in the corridor, I suppose, and that was why
they hit upon the clever expedient of using the privacy of my room for the purpose."

"Excellent!" Field said. "Nothing could be better. Beyond the shadow of a doubt these people
are at the bottom of the whole business. Did you frighten the lady, Miss?"

"Not in the least," Beatrice replied. "I was particularly careful not to arouse suspicions
that I had noticed anything out of the common. But I knew perfectly well that I was just in
time to save my diamonds. However, that has nothing to do with the question. The Countess came
back very late, under the pretence that she required my services as her maid. She managed to
drug me with some very powerful scent, I presume, with a view of using my room whilst I was
unconscious, if any hitch took place. But you may be sure that these people are under the impression
that nobody could possibly identify them with the outrage. There will not be any great difficulty
in tracing them."

"Thanks to your skill and courage," Field said admiringly. "We can do nothing further till
we hear from the night porter and his colleague. I will make a few inquiries in the hotel,
and I shall be very glad, Miss, if you will write down for me as clear and as accurate a description
as possible of the General and the Countess."

A little time later Beatrice found herself alone with Mark. Colonel Berrington was waiting
down in the hall. Mark looked tenderly into Beatrice's pallid, beautiful face, and he gently
stroked her head.

"This is a very dreadful business for you, darling," he said. "Your courage----"

"My courage can stand any strain so long as I know that I am free of my husband," the girl
said. "When I think of my troubles, and they begin to overcome me, I always go back to that
reflection. It seems to lift me up and strengthen me. Mark, I believe I should have died, or
killed myself, had I been compelled to be with that man."

"You have not seen any more of him, I suppose?" Mark asked.

"Last night," Beatrice whispered. "Mark, I did not tell the detective one thing--I felt that
I really could not. I spoke of the man who was closeted in my room with the Countess. I said
I would recognize him again. It was my husband, Stephen Richford."

Mark's face expressed his amazement. Before he could reply the door opened and Inspector Field
came in again. His face was grave and stern.

"This is a fouler business than ever I imagined," he said. "Both hall porter and night watchman
are missing. Neither has been seen at their lodgings since they left duty to-day."

CHAPTER XII

The story had gone abroad by this time. All London knew of the strange disappearance of the
body of Sir Charles Darryll. Of course the wildest rumours were afloat, the cheaper newspapers
had details that had been evolved from the brilliant imagination of creative reporters; a score
of them had already besieged the manager of the Royal Palace Hotel and were making his life
a burden to him. The thing was bad enough as it stood; enough damage had been done to the prestige
of the hotel without making matters worse in this fashion.

There was nothing further to say at present except that the news was true, and that the police
had no clue whatsoever for the moment.

"Not that it is the slightest use telling them anything of the kind," Field muttered. "Whenever
there is a mystery the press always gives us the credit for the possession of a clue. In that
way they very often succeed in scaring our game away altogether. I don't say that the papers
are useless to us, but they do more harm than good."

All the same, Field was not quite at a loss to know what to do. Beatrice had given him a full
and accurate description of the two adventurers who had vanished, leaving no trace behind them.
They had suggested that all their belongings were at the European Hotel, but a question or
two asked there had proved that such was not the case.

"And yet they have gone and covered up their tracks behind them," Field said. "Why? Miss Darryll--I
should say, Mrs. Richford--is quite sure that she did not alarm either of them. Then why did
they disappear like this? Perhaps they were spotted by somebody else over another matter. Perhaps
the gentleman who so scared our 'General' in the drawing-room of this hotel had something to
do with the matter. We shan't get much further on the track of this interesting pair until
I have had a talk with some of the foreign detectives."

"You can, at any rate, look after the missing hotel servants," Mark suggested.

But that was already being done, as Field proceeded to explain. It was just possible that they
had been the victims of foul play. Most of the newspaper men had been cleared out by this time,
and there being nothing further to learn, the hotel resumed its normal condition. People came
and went as they usually do in such huge concerns; the mystery was discussed fitfully, but
the many visitors had their own business to attend to, so that they did not heed the half score
of quiet and sternfaced men who were searching the hotel everywhere. At the end of an hour
there was no kind of trace of anything that would lead to the whereabouts of the missing men.
Colonel Berrington came to the head of the grand stairway presently holding a little round
object in his hand.

"I have found this," he said. "It is a button with the initials R. P. H. on it, evidently a
button from the uniform of one of the servants. As there is a scrap of cloth attached to it,
the button has evidently been wrenched off, which points to a struggle having taken place.
Don't you feel inclined to agree with me, Inspector?"

On the whole Inspector Field was inclined to agree. Would Colonel Berrington be so good as
to take him to the exact spot where the button was found? The button had been discovered on
the first landing, and had lodged on the edge of the parquet flooring on the red carpet. They
were very thick carpets, as befitted the character of the hotel.

Inspector Field bent down and fumbled on the floor. He had touched a patch of something wet.
When he rose his fingers were red as if the dye had come out of the carpet.

"Blood," he said, as if in answer to Berrington's interrogative glance. "Very stupid of us
not to think of something like this before. But these carpets are so thick and of so dark a
colour. Beyond doubt some deed of violence has taken place here. See."

The inspector smeared his hand further along the carpet. The red patch was very large. A little
further along the wall there were other patches, and there was the mark of a blood-stained
hand on the handle of a door which proved to be locked.

"Is anybody occupying this room at present?" Field asked a hotel servant.

"Not exactly, sir," the man replied. "That door gives on to one of the finest suites in the
hotel. It is rented by the Rajah of Ahbad. His Highness is not here at present, but he comes
and goes as he likes. He keeps the keys himself, and the door is only opened by his steward,
who comes along a day or two before his royal master."

"All the same they are going to be opened now," said Field grimly. "Go and tell the manager
that I want him here at once. I suppose there are master keys to this."

But there were no master keys to the Royal suite; the locks had been selected by the Rajah
himself. It was an hour or more later before a locksmith from Milner's managed to open the
door. They were thick doors, sheet lined, and locked top and bottom. Field switched up the
electric lights and made a survey of the rooms. The blinds were all down and the shutters up.
Suddenly Inspector Field gave a grunt of satisfaction.

"We've got something here, at any rate," he said. "And the poor chap seems to be badly hurt.
Carry him out gently and see if the doctor is still here."

A body lay on the floor; the hands and arms were secured to the sides by straps; a tightly
rolled pad of black cloth was fixed in the poor fellow's mouth. There was a ghastly wound on
the side of his head from which the blood was still oozing; a great deal of it had congealed
on his collar. A slight groan proved that the victim was still alive. "It's the hall porter,"
the manager cried. "It's poor Benwort. What a horrible thing!"

"Looks like concussion of the brain," Field said. "Thank goodness, here's Dr. Andrews. We will
make a further search of these rooms, for it's pretty certain that the other fellow is here
also. Ah, I felt very sure that we should find him."

A second man, also in the livery of the hotel, lay by a sofa. He seemed to have fared better,
for there was no blood on his face, though a great swelling over his right ear testified to
the fact that he had been severely handled. He was not insensible, but he hardly knew what
he was talking about as he was placed on his feet.

"Tell us all about it," the inspector said encouragingly. "What really happened?"

"Don't ask me," Catton, the night watchman said, as he held his hands to his head. "My brain
feels as if it had been squeezed dry. Somebody hit me on the head after a lady in grey came
and fetched me. A little lady in grey, with a sad face and grey eyes."

Berrington started violently, and Mark looked up in surprise. The grey lady--Beatrice's Slave
of Silence--seemed to run through this mystery like the thread of a story. It was an entirely
interesting moment, but unhappily the night watchman could say no more.

"Don't worry me so," he whined. "Put some ice on my head and let me sleep. I dare say I shall
be able to puzzle it out in time. Somebody carried something down the stairs; then the big
door opened and the night porter whistled for a cab. That's all."

The speaker lurched forward and appeared to fall into a comatose state. There was nothing for
it but to put him to bed without delay. Field looked puzzled.

"I suppose that poor fellow was talking coherently in snatches," he said. "No doubt just after
he got that crack on the head he did see a bulky package taken downstairs. But then he says
he heard the door open and a cab whistled for by the night porter. Now that's impossible, seeing
that the night porter got his quietus also. Now who called up that cab? Evidently somebody
did, and no doubt the cab came. Well, we shall find that cab. Saunders, go at once and see
what you can do in the direction of finding that cab."

The mystery seemed to get deeper and deeper the more Field got on the track. He could quite
understand how it was that both of these hotel servants had been put out of action, so to speak,
but who was the grey lady who had given the note of warning, and why had those two men been
placed in the suite of rooms belonging to the Rajah of Ahbad? The gagging and the hiding were
all right, and that line of policy gave all the more time to the ruffians who had done this
thing. Also it was possible on reflection to understand why the Rajah's room had been chosen,
as no search, but for the bloody door handle, would have been made there. But where had those
people procured those patent Brahma lock keys from?

The wild supposition that the Rajah himself was in the business was absurd. That idea might
be dismissed on the spot. The more Field thought of it the more was he puzzled. He would take
an early opportunity of seeing the Rajah.

"He's a quiet sort of man," the hotel manager explained. "I should fancy that he has an English
mother, by the look of him. Anyway, he is English to all intents and purposes, having been
educated at Eton and Oxford. He only took these rooms a few months ago; he was brought here
after a bad illness, and when he went away he was carried to his carriage. But they say he's
all right now. But, Mr. Inspector, you don't mean to say that you think that the Rajah----"

"Has any hand in this business? Of course I don't," Field said testily. "I'm just a little
put out this morning, so you must forgive my bad temper. The more one digs into the thing,
the more black and misty it becomes. I think I'll go as far as the Yard and have a talk to
one or two of our foreign men. Well, Saunders?"

"Well, I've done some good," Saunders said. "I have not found the cabman we want, but I've
got on the track of another who can tell me something useful. He's a night man, and he is waiting
down in the hall for you at this moment, sir."

"I think I'll go along, if you don't mind," Berrington suggested.

Field had no objection to make, and together the two descended to the hall. A little, apple-faced,
shrivelled-looking man was waiting for them. There was no reason to ask his occupation--London
cabman was written all over him in large letters.

"I can't tell you much, sir," he said. "It was just past two when I heard the whistle here.
I was waiting with my cab at the corner of Shepherd Street. It's out of my line a bit, but
I pulled up there in the hopes of getting a return fare. When I heard the whistle I came up
with my cab, but I was just a shade too late. There was another cab before me, a black cab
with a black horse, a rather swell affair. The driver was wearing a fur coat and a very shiny
top hat. We had a few words, but the hotel porter told me to be off, and I went back to the
stand where I stayed till just daylight. Nobody else left the hotel in a cab."

"This is important," Field muttered. "By the way, would you recognize the hall porter again?
You would! Then come this way and we will see if you can."

But the cabman was quite sure that the damaged man lying on the bed at the top of the hotel
was not the same one who had ordered him away a few hours before. He was quite sure because
the lights in the hotel portico were still full on, and he had seen the hall porter's face
quite distinctly.

"A regular plant," Field exclaimed. "A clever thing indeed. Was the black cab empty when it
came up, or was there anybody inside it?"

"Somebody was inside it," was the prompt reply. "A pale gentleman, very lame he was. He tried
to get out of the cab but the driver pushed him back, and he and the hall porter hoisted the
big trunk on top of the cab. And that's all, sir."

Berrington listened intently. He was struggling with some confused memory in which the grey
lady and Stephen Richford were all mixed up together. Suddenly the flash of illumination came.
He smote his hand on his knee.

"I've got it," he cried. "I've got it. The lame man of No. 100 Audley Place!"

CHAPTER XIII

Berrington's exclamation of surprise was not lost upon Inspector Field. He stood obviously
waiting for the gallant officer to say something. As there was a somewhat long pause, the inspector
took up the parable for himself.

"In a great many cases that come under our hands, so many give us a chance," he said. "We allow
something for luck. More than once in looking up one business I have come across a burning
clue of another."

"What is the meaning of all this philosophy, Mr. Field?" Berrington asked.

"Well, I think it is pretty obvious, if you care to see it. We are engaged, just for the present,
on looking for a private hansom, painted black, in which is seated a lame gentleman. The rest
of our investigation does not matter just now, because we have beyond doubt actually traced
the parties who conveyed the body of Sir Charles from the hotel. When the lame gentleman is
spoken of you say something about No. 100, Audley Place. It is quite obvious that you know
something of the man, or at any rate you think you do. May I point out that it is your duty
to help us if you can."

Berrington looked uncomfortable. As a matter of fact he had made up his mind to say nothing
as to Audley Place.

"There are several Audley Places in the Directory," Field went on. "I am sure you would not
put us to the trouble of looking them all up, sir. Tell me all you know. Anything that you
may say will be treated as confidential."

"I quite see your reasoning," Berrington replied. "Let me tell you that I should have said
nothing--for the present, at any rate--had I not betrayed myself. Look here, Field, I might
just as well inform you that we are treading on very delicate ground here. As soon as I begin
to speak, Sir Charles's daughter comes into the business."

"You mean Miss Darryll--Mrs. Richford, I should say. How, Colonel?"

"Because I am quite sure that she knows something of the matter. In the first place you must
understand that the marriage was the reverse of a love match. Sir Charles's affairs were in
anything but a prosperous condition at the time of his death."

"In fact he was on the point of being arrested in connection with a certain company," Field
said coolly. "I got that information from the City Police. It was a mere piece of gossip, but
I did not identify it as in any way connected with the subsequent tragedy."

"Well, I should not be surprised to hear that it had an important bearing on the mystery. As
far as I could judge after the wedding there was a quarrel between Mr. and Mrs. Richford----"

"Ah!" Field exclaimed. His face was shrewd and eager. "Can you tell me what about?"

"Indeed, I cannot. I cannot even guess. But I can't see what that has to do with it."

"Can't you indeed, sir?" Field asked drily. "Mrs. Richford shall tell me herself, presently.
But we are getting no nearer to the lame gentleman in Audley Place."

"Oh, yes we are. Let us admit that quarrel. I am certain of it because yesterday Mr. Richford
had luncheon at the same table as myself. He ordered a steak and potatoes. When it came, he
asked the waiter who had been putting salt on his plate. Sure enough there was salt on the
plate and in the shape of a bullet. Directly Richford saw that, his whole aspect changed. He
was like one beside himself with terror. He did not know that I was watching him, he knew nothing
beyond the horror of the moment."

"You mean that shaped salt had some hidden meaning, sir?" Field asked.

"I am certain of it. Now don't run your head up against the idea that you are on the track
of some political society, or that Anarchism has anything to do with it. It so happens that
I have seen that salt sign before in India under strange circumstances that we need not go
into at the present moment. The man who pointed it out to me disappeared and was never heard
of again. The sign was in his own plate at dinner. A little later I was enabled to get to the
bottom of the whole thing; the story shall be told you in due course.

"Well, I wanted to see what Mr. Richford would do next. Was the sign an imperative one or not?
Evidently it was, for he got up, finished his brandy, and left the table without having had
a single mouthful of food. Under ordinary conditions I should have taken no action, but you
see Mrs. Richford is a great friend of mine, and I was anxious to see how far her husband was
in with these people. To make a long story short, I followed Richford's cab and traced him
to No. 100, Audley Place, which is somewhat at the back of Wandsworth Common. There I was so
fortunate as to find a policeman who had been in my regiment, and he gave me all the information
he could as to the inhabitants of the house. The gist of that information was that the owner
of the house was a lame gentleman who sometimes went out in a bath chair. Now you do see why
I cried out when the cabman finished his story to-day?"

Field nodded thoughtfully. He saw perfectly well. For a little time he was silent, piecing
the puzzle together. On the whole he was more than satisfied with the morning's work.

"I see," he said at length. "The lame gentleman, of course, sent the message to Mr. Richford.
Within a few hours the body of Sir Charles disappears. Why, then, was this message sent? So
that the lame man could get posted in all his facts with a view to stealing the body. In other
words, Mrs. Richford's husband was a party to that daring crime. Why that body was fetched
away we cannot inquire into, at present. What I want to know, and what I must know, is what
Mrs. Richford and her husband quarrelled about."

Berrington winced. He had no pleasant vision of Beatrice being cross-examined by this sharp,
shrewd policeman. And yet the thing was inevitable. Field's eyes asked a question.

"All right, Inspector," Berrington said, not without some irritation. "I'll go and see the
lady, and let her know what you have already found out. I suppose it is fatal to try and conceal
anything. This comes of a lady marrying such a sweep as that."

Beatrice listened calmly enough to all Berrington had to say. It was not nice to have to tell
her story over again, but she decided to conceal nothing. She had done a foolish thing, a wrong
thing to save her father, and the world was going to know the whole sordid truth. But so long
as Mark stood by her, what did the opinion of the world matter?

"Ask Inspector Field in here," she said. "No, I do not blame you, my dear old friend. Is it
not far better that everything should come out? A dreadful crime has been committed and the
guilty should be punished, whoever they are."

Inspector Field came in, very sorry and very apologetic for the trouble he was causing. He
was quite different from the hard man who had been cross-examining Berrington outside.

"I fancy you can give me certain information," he said. "I have some little hesitation in saying
anything personal as to the character of Mr. Richford----"

"You need not hesitate," Beatrice said bitterly, "on my account. I am going to speak freely,
and all the more so because I see the possibility of having to repeat it all in the witness
box. I married my husband with the sole idea of saving my father from dis----"

"Unpleasantness," Field said swiftly. "There is no occasion for anything of that kind to come
out in the witness box. For family reasons you became Mrs. Richford. There is no reason why
your sacrifice should have been altogether in vain."

"That is very good of you," Beatrice said gratefully. "Let me say that I am not in love with
the man whose name I am supposed to bear. Had anything happened to my father before yesterday,
my marriage would never have taken place. My quarrel with my husband was that he knew my father
was dead two hours before the ceremony was fixed to take place."

Hardened as he was, Field started. This information was unexpected as it was dramatic.

"I am not speaking idly," Beatrice went on. "I came back here, directly my father's death came
to my ears. In his room I found a telegram. It was dated yesterday, the hour was clearly marked
upon it--about ten o'clock yesterday morning. That telegram was addressed to my husband; it
was found by me close to my father's body. The doctor said that Sir Charles had been dead some
hours before he was discovered. Therefore I had conclusive proof in my hands that my husband
had seen my father's corpse and that he had stolen out of the room and said nothing, knowing
that I should never be his wife if he spoke the truth."

"It seems almost incredible," Field muttered. "What did Mr. Richford say?"

"What could he do or say beyond admitting the truth of my accusation? Even his cunning failed
before the production of that fateful telegram. He had to admit everything, he had to admit
that the telegram belonged to him, that he had occasion to see my father very early on pressing
business, and that he had not raised the alarm because he knew if he did so he would lose me.
At one time the suite of rooms in which we stand was rented by Mr. Richford; indeed his term
has not expired yet, and that is why my father came here. I can tell you little if any more.
What I said to my husband does not matter in the least. I told him plainly that I had done
with him, and I hope that I may never see him again."

Field had few questions to ask further. A hundred theories were flying through his nimble brain.
Beatrice seemed to divine something of this.

"In common fairness I am bound to say that Mr. Richford could have had nothing to do with my
father's death," she said. "In the first place he had everything to gain by Sir Charles keeping
his health. I know the doctors are suspicious that there is foul play somewhere, but recollect
that they are prepared to swear to my father's death some hours before his body was found.
A little before ten, Mr. Richford must have been at home or he could never have had that telegram.
Therefore it was after ten before he sought out my father, who, according to the medical view
of the cause, had passed away hours before."

"That is very cleverly and logically reasoned," Field said, not without admiration. "And in
any case Mr. Richford would be able to give a really convincing account of the reason why he
remained silent--especially after a jury had seen you in the witness box."

It was a pretty compliment and a tribute to Field's sound judgment as to human nature, but
Beatrice did not appear to heed his words.

"I had better finish and tell you everything," she said. "I have said everything I can, in
common fairness to my husband. I feel convinced that if there was foul play he had no hand
in it, no actual hand, that is. But there is another side to the question. I have already told
you all about the Countess and the General. I told you how my suspicions were aroused, and
when I came up to my room as quickly as possible--the door was shut and two people were talking
inside. You asked me just now, Inspector Field, if I could recognize the man again--the man
who was in the room when the Countess was actually taking impressions of the seals on the door,
and I said I could. Can you guess who that man was?"

The inspector looked puzzled for a moment, then the light of illumination came over his face.
He glanced up eagerly; his dark eyes were dancing.

"You don't mean to say that it was Mr. Richford?" he asked.

"Indeed I do," Beatrice said quietly, "I had intended to keep that piece of information to
myself, but you have forced my hand. Of actual crime, of actual murder, I am quite sure that
Stephen Richford is innocent. But as to the rest I cannot say. At any rate I have concealed
nothing that is likely to injure the course of justice."

CHAPTER XIV

Inspector Field took up his hat and gloves from the chair where he had deposited them. He was
satisfied, and more than satisfied with the interview. In a short time he had achieved excellent
results.

"We will not trouble Mrs. Richford any more at present," he said. "It may be some consolation
to her to know that I agree with all her reasonings. But there is plenty of work to do."

Field bowed himself out, followed by Berrington. The latter asked what the inspector was going
to do.

"In the first place I am going down to the Yard," Field explained. "I am then going to get
rid of my correspondence and have my dinner. After that till it gets dark I propose to pursue
what Lord Beaconsfield called a policy of masterly inactivity for a time. Once it is really
dark, I intend to go as far as Wandsworth Common, and learn something of the gentleman who
is lame and has a private hansom painted black. You see, sir, the scene of the story is changed.
The next act must be played out at Wandsworth."

"You have some settled plan in your mind?" Berrington asked.

"Indeed I have not, sir. I may make no more than a few simple inquiries and come home again.
On the other hand, before morning I may find myself inside the house. I may even return with
the lame gentleman as my prisoner. It is all in the air."

"By Jove," Berrington cried. "I should like to go with you. As an old campaigner, and one with
some little knowledge of strategy I may be useful. Anything is better than sitting here doing
nothing. Would you very much mind, Inspector?"

Field regarded the brown, eager, clever face and steadfast eyes of the questioner shrewdly.

"I shall be delighted, sir," he said heartily, "with one proviso--that you regard me as your
senior officer and commander in this business. Military strategy is one thing, the hunting
of criminals quite a different thing. I shall start from the Yard before ten o'clock, and even
then I shall not make my way to Wandsworth direct. We are dealing with an exceedingly clever
lot, and it is just possible that I may be watched. Therefore I shall disguise myself, and
you had better do the same. Then you can meet me at eleven o'clock where you like."

"That's a bargain," Berrington said eagerly. "I'll go over to Wandsworth pretty early and try
to see my police friend, Macklin. At eleven o'clock I shall be under the trees opposite Audley
Place, waiting for you. Probably I shall assume the disguise of a sailor."

"Um, not a bad idea," Field remarked. "We will both be sailors just paid off from a ship and
with money in our pockets. Sailors, in that condition who have assimilated a fair amount of
liquid refreshment, do strange things. Oh, we shall be all right. Merchant seamen let us be,
from the ship Severn, just home from South America. Good afternoon, sir."

It was nearly ten before Berrington reached the rendezvous. He was perfectly disguised as a
sailor fresh from a tramp steamer, his clothes were dirty and grimy, and the cap in his hand
had a decided naval cock. So far as he could judge there were no lights visible at No. 100,
opposite. He waited for Macklin to come along, which presently he did. The police officer looked
suspiciously at the figure in a slumbering attitude on the seat, and passed before him.

"Now, then," he said sharply. "What are you doing here? Come out of that."

Berrington came unsteadily to his feet and blinked into the lane of light made by the policeman's
lantern. He was rather proud of his disguise and the way in which it was passing scrutiny.

"All right, Macklin," he said in his natural voice. "It's Colonel Berrington. Not quite the
same sort of disguise that I tried to pass into the Madi Halfa camp with when you were on guard
that night. Still it took you in, didn't it?"

"It did indeed, sir," Macklin said, not without admiration. "And might I beg to ask what manner
of game the Colonel of my old regiment is up to in London at this hour?"

"We need not go into details, Macklin," Berrington said. "Regard me as your senior officer
for a moment, and answer my questions without comment. As I told you yesterday, I am interested
in that house opposite. Have you found out anything?"

"Nothing worth speaking about, sir," Macklin replied. "They seem to be just respectable people
who have plenty of money and very few visitors. Last night about half past eleven the old gentleman
went out in a cab, and came back about half past two with a friend who had a big box on the
top of the cab. That's all I can tell you."

"Ah, perhaps that is more important than it seems," Berrington muttered. "Anything to-day?"

"Nothing to-day, sir. Oh, yes, there is. The parlourmaid reported to the man who is doing day
duty here this week that the house would be closed till Saturday, and that the police were
to keep an eye on the place at night. Looks as if they've gone, sir."

Berrington swore quietly and under his breath. It seemed to him as if he and Field were going
to have their trouble for their pains. No. 100 was not the kind of house where people are unduly
economical on the score of lights, and there was not one to be seen.

"I should like to go and have a prowl around," Berrington said, after a pause. "I suppose if
I did, I shouldn't have any officious policeman to reckon with."

"Well, sir, I'm not quite sure," Macklin said dubiously. "Of course I know you to be a gentleman
as wouldn't do anything in the least wrong, but there's my sergeant to consider. Still, as
this is on my beat, no other officer is likely to see you."

"Good," Berrington exclaimed. "What time will you be back here again?"

Macklin calculated that he would reach the same spot again an hour or so later,--about eleven
o'clock, to be exact. The hour tallied precisely with the coming of Field, and in the meantime
Berrington was free to make what he could of the house opposite.

But there was precious little to be gained in that respect. The house was all fastened up,
there were shutters to the windows on the ground floor; the garden was tried next, but there
was no litter anywhere such as might have been caused by a hasty removal. Clearly if the house
was closed up it was only for a day or two, as the parlourmaid had told the policeman.

At the end of an hour Berrington was not a whit wiser than before.

He crossed over the road and there on a seat under the trees was a sailor like himself. Field
did not assume to be asleep but was pulling at a short clay pipe.

"Come and sit down, sir," he said. "I've just come. As I anticipated, I am being watched. But
I managed to give my shadowers quite a wrong impression and I passed from the house, where
I keep a few stock disguises, under their very noses. They imagine that they are following
me up West by this time."

"I am afraid all the trouble has been wasted," Berrington said irritably. "The birds have flown."

"Indeed, sir. And who did you get that valuable piece of information from?"

"From my friend the policeman that I told you about. The house is shut up for a few days and
the authorities have been informed of the fact. I have been all around the house and it is
as silent as the grave."

"Well, that might be merely a blind, after all," Field said cheerfully. "When did they go?"

"So far as I can gather from Macklin, they departed early this morning."

Field chuckled but said nothing. A little while later there was a thud of heavy boots on the
pavement, and Macklin and his sergeant came, together. The latter was about to say something
but Field produced his card and the effect was instantaneous.

"No, we don't want any assistance at all," the Scotland Yard official said. "All you can do
is to go about your work as if nothing was taking place. You may notice something suspicious
presently at No. 100, across the road, but you are to ignore it. You understand?"

The sergeant nodded and touched his helmet; he understood perfectly well. The two passed on
together and the sham sailors crossed the road. Very quietly Field proceeded to the back of
the house. It was a little dark here, and he guided himself by pressing his fingers to the
walls. Presently he stopped, and a low chuckle came from his lips.

"Discovery the first, sir," he said. "Press your hand on the wall here. What do you notice?"

But Berrington noticed nothing beyond the fact that the wall was quite warm. He said so, and
the inspector chuckled once more. He seemed to be pleased about something.

"That should tell you a story, sir," he said. "That house is supposed to be empty; nobody has
been here since early this morning. If you will look up, you will see that the blank wall terminates
in a high chimney--obviously the kitchen chimney. This wall is quite hot, it is the back of
the kitchen fireplace--so obviously, if those people went early to-day there would be very
little fire, in fact the range would have been out long ago. And what do we find? A hot wall
that tells of a good fire all day, a good fire at this moment, or these bricks would have cooled
down before now. If you listen you will hear the boiler gently simmering."

It was all exactly as Field had said. Perhaps the servants had been sent away for a day or
two, indeed, it was very probable that they had. But there was the big fire testifying to the
fact that somebody was in the house at that very moment.

"We are going to take risks," Field whispered. "If we are discovered we shall be given into
custody as two drunken sailors, given into the custody of your friend Macklin and his sergeant,
from whom we shall probably escape. You may be very sure that we shall not be charged, for
the simple reason that the people here don't want their names or anything about them to get
into the papers; in fact, the less they see of the police the better they will be pleased.
Come along."

Field strode around to the kitchen window. The shutters were up, but not so in the larder,
which had no bars, and was only protected by a square of perforated zinc. The inspector took
a tool from his pocket and with great care and dexterity, and without making the least noise,
removed the zinc from its place. Then a lantern flamed out.

"Come along," said Field, "we can easily get through here. We shall be safe in the kitchen,
for we know that the maids are not in the house."

For the present everything was absolutely plain sailing. And as Field had anticipated there
was nobody in the kitchen and nobody in the corridor leading to the better part of the house.
All the same, a big fire, recently made up, was roaring in the range, showing that the place
was not quite deserted. And yet it was as silent as the grave.

It was the same in the hall, and the same in the living-rooms, where no lights gleamed. From
somewhere upstairs came a sound as if somebody was gently filing some soft metal. The noise
ceased presently to be followed by the rattle of a typewriter, or so it seemed. The two adventurers
stood in the darkness of the dining-room listening; it seemed to them as if that rattle was
getting closer. Field flashed a light into the room, but it was quite empty; the polished mahogany
of the table reflected the flowers on it.

Then suddenly the rattle grew louder, and Field hid his light under the slide. As suddenly
as his light had faded out, the dining-room glowed in a perfect bank of shaded yellow light,
as if by magic the table stood with a perfect meal, a dainty cold supper with glass and silver
and crystal and gold-topped bottles upon it; the whole thing seemed a most wonderful piece
of conjuring. At the same instant there was the rattle of a latch-key in the front door. Field
pulled his companion into the darkness of the drawing-room doorway. A man came in, peeled off
his coat, and entered the dining-room. Field gasped.

"What is the matter?" Berrington asked. "Do you know who it is?"

"Rather," Field replied, "I should say that I do. Why! that's no other than the Rajah of Ahbad!
Well, if this doesn't beat all!"

CHAPTER XV

Used as he was to quick scenes and dramatic changes, Berrington was surprised for the moment.
The thing was like some bewildering Eastern vision. A moment ago the place had been dull and
dark, and now like a flash, warmth and light were there, to say nothing of the tasteful extravagance
of the supper-table. Berrington could see the fruit and the flowers, the dainty confections
and the costly wines. How had the thing been managed?

But it was no moment to speculate about that. So far it merely tended to prove the almost diabolical
cleverness of the people with whom the police had to deal. The Rajah himself could be seen
standing moodily in the doorway chewing a cigar between his strong, yellow teeth. Berrington
observed him very carefully.

As one who knew India, Berrington was in a position to judge the man fairly well. As a matter
of fact, the newcomer did not look in the least like an Eastern potentate. True, his skin was
dark, but not more sallow than that of many a European. His hair was thick, but his eyes were
dark blue, and his dress was eminently that of a man about town. With his public school and
University education, the Rajah had passed for an Englishman.

"What sort of a reputation does he bear?" Berrington asked in a whisper.

"Shady," Field replied briefly. "What you call a renegade, I should say. Has all the vices
of both hemispheres, without the redeeming features of either. Low-class music halls, ballet
dancers, prize-fighters and the like. At the same time he's got the good sense not to flaunt
these vices before the public, and he knows how to conduct himself with dignity when there
is any necessity for it. Despite his handsome income, he is frequently in dire need of money.
Still, I should never have identified him with this business had I not seen him here. I had
no idea that he even knew Sir Charles Darryll and Mr. Richford."

The Rajah stood there biting his nails impatiently, as if waiting for somebody. He crossed
over to the table and opened a bottle of champagne to which he helped himself liberally. The
fizz of the wine could be distinctly heard in the drawing-room.

"I'd give half my pension to know how that thing is worked," said Berrington. "A moment ago
there was nothing on that table, and now look at it! It would have taken the staff of a large
hotel half an hour to arrange a meal like that. The flowers alone would have occupied the time.
The servants here----"

"You may bet your life that the servants know nothing about it," Field said. "They have been
sent away right enough. I feel quite sure that they are innocent of everything. It would never
do to let domestics talk of these matters."

The Rajah was pacing up and down the dining-room talking to himself. A moment later there was
a rattle of a latchkey and two people came in. The first was a young man with the unmistakable
stamp of the actor on him, smart, well groomed, clean shaven, the society actor of to-day.
He was followed by an exceedingly pretty, fair-haired woman, who might have belonged to the
same profession. Just for the moment it occurred to Field that these were ordinary guests who
knew nothing of the mystery of the house. There was nothing about either of them to connect
them with crime or mystery.

They pitched their wraps carelessly on the hall table as if they had been there before, and
made their way to the dining-room. The Rajah's face grew eager.

"Well, my children," he said in excellent English, "have you had any luck? Cora, dear, tell
me that you have succeeded in our little counterplot."

The woman's pretty face grew hard. She pulled a chair up to the table and sat down.

"Give me some of that pâté and open a bottle of champagne," she said. "What with this doubling
about and covering up one's tracks, I've had no time to think of food. The same remark applies
to poor Reggie here. Haven't we succeeded well enough for you?"

"Well, yes, you managed the big thing all right, but that's not everything. You managed the
big thing so well that the police are utterly baffled and don't know which way to look. But
the stones, carissima, the sparkling stones. What of them?"

The woman gave a shrug of her ivory shoulders. She could be plainly seen by the watchers lost
in the darkness of the drawing-room.

"The deplorable luck was against us," she said. "I actually had my hands upon the stones and
nearly snatched them away under the very eyes of the adorable Richford. I said to myself we
are not going to do his work for nothing. He followed me to the room where the stones were
and we talked. You see I had business in the room as you know. And Reggie here was downstairs,
making himself agreeable to the fair owner of the stones, so that I had a free hand in the
matter. If Reggie had not been so indiscreet as to leave the poor child----"

"But what could I do?" the man called Reggie protested. "Never was so cruel a piece of bad
luck in the history of war. Who should come down but Langford?"

"But you were so carefully disguised that Langford could not possibly have known you," the
woman said.

"I admit it. I positively had forgotten the fact for the moment. The sight of Langford was
such a shock to me. On the spur of the moment I made my excuses and departed."

"Leaving the little girl uneasy and suspicious," said the woman, "so that she came up to her
room where I was and walked off with the gems. I was very near to taking her by the throat
and half strangling her. But there were greater issues at stake and I had to restrain my feelings.
I had to smile and nod and play my part whilst the little lady was sending the jewels off to
the safe custody of the hotel clerk. I could have danced with fury, I could have wept with
rage. But what was the good?"

The Rajah swore roundly and passionately. He could be seen from the drawing-room, striding
about the place and muttering as he went.

"It is more than unfortunate," he said. "If we could have got hold of those jewels we should
have had a fortune in our grasp. We were quite justified in robbing Richford, who only serves
me for his own ends. He is a bully and a coward and he must pay the price. He says that he
has no ready money, that his affairs are more desperate than we imagine. And yet he could find
the cash to buy those diamonds."

"They always mean cash," the woman said. "It is a good thing for the wife of a speculator to
be in possession of a lot of fine diamonds. It would have been a precious good thing for us,
too, if Reggie had not lost his nerve last night."

"Have you any idea who those people are?" asked Berrington of his companion.

"Not personally," Field replied, "but I have a pretty shrewd idea. It is very good of them
to come here, just as nature made them, and without disguises. Surely you know what they are
talking about? The discussion is over Mrs. Richford's diamonds which she nearly lost, as she
told me. Unless I am greatly mistaken, we are listening to a confession of the way in which
that robbery had been planned. Stripped of their very clever disguises, these two people yonder
are no other than Countess de la Moray and General Gastang."

Berrington nodded, wondering why he had not found them out before. From the dining-room came
the sound of a match, as the Rajah lighted another cigar.

"We shall have to go back to our original scheme," he was saying. "There was never anything
better. We must get the other man into this. He must be frightened. Send him the salt."

There was another rattle of the latchkey, and the watchers were not in the least surprised
to see Richford come in, with the air of a man who is quite at home. He was looking white and
anxious and a little annoyed as he took off his coat and entered the dining-room. Unhappily
he closed the door behind him, so that no more conversation could be heard.

"That's unlucky," Field said in a vexed tone. "What does that salt allusion mean? You recollect
telling me that Richford was frightened by finding that salt on his plate?"

"It's a kind of Indian dodge," Berrington proceeded to explain. "It has to do with caste and
religious observances and all that sort of thing. Don't be deceived with the idea that you
are on the track of an Anarchist society or anything of that kind."

"Is it something more or less on the line of freemasonry, then?" Field asked.

"Well, yes, you can put it that way if you like," Berrington said thoughtfully. "I made a special
study of that kind of thing in India, though I only came across the salt fetich a few times.
It seemed to me to be more religious than anything else, though in one or two instances it
was attended by tragedy. There was a young native prince who was a great friend of mine and
he was about to be married to a princess who was as bright and intelligent as himself. She
had been educated like himself in Europe, so that they were free from a deal of superstition
and prejudice. The prince was dining at my bungalow one night when I noticed a little bullet
of salt on his plate. It was useless to ask him how it got there for one could never have elicited
the truth from any of the native servants. My friend got dreadfully pale for a moment, but
he turned it off and he thought no more about the matter. But the next day the prince was found
dead in his bed; he had shot himself with a revolver."

"And you never got to the bottom of it?" Field asked with pardonable curiosity.

"Never. There are mysteries in India that puzzle us as much as they did in the good old days
of John Company. What's that noise?"

There was a sound like the rumble of wheels along the hall, and presently appeared a kind of
invalid chair, self-propelled by its occupant, a little man with a pale face and dark eyes.
He paused before the dining-room door and rattled the handle.

"Evidently the master of the house," Berrington suggested. "The lame man who can't walk. It
was he who sent the message to Richford."

"Sure enough," Field exclaimed. "Must have been in the abduction business. Evidently the same
gentleman who was waiting in the black cab outside the Royal Palace. Rather a nice looking
man, with by no means unpleasant face. Hope they won't shut the door upon him."

Somebody opened the dining-room door at this moment and the lame man steered himself in. Where
he had come from was a mystery, as the house had appeared to be quite empty when Berrington
and his companion entered it. Clearly the man could not have come from the upper part of the
premises, for his physical condition disposed of that suggestion.

"Well, my friends," the newcomer cried gaily, "very glad to see you all safe and sound again.
So our little scheme has not been a failure. Richford, judging from the gloom on your brow,
you have not had the luck you desire. You must be content with the knowledge that virtue brings
its own reward. And yet if you only knew it you are the most fortunate of men. For your sweet
sake we have undertaken difficulties and dangers that----"

"Oh, shut up," Richford growled. "I don't understand what you are driving at. Anybody would
think that you were no more than a silly child who had nothing to do but to attend to your
flowers and stick your postage stamps in your album. And yet----"

"And yet I can give my attention to more serious matters," the cripple said with a sudden stern
expression and in a voice that had a metallic ring in it. "You are right. And if you two have
eaten and drunk enough we will get to business."

There was a little stir amongst the listeners, the Rajah pitching his cigar into the grate
and coming forward eagerly. Evidently something was going to happen.

CHAPTER XVI

Cool and collected as he usually was, even Field was excited now. He crept as near to the drawing
room door as he dared, and peeped into the ring of light, eagerly. He popped back hurriedly
as the man called Reggie and the Rajah came into the hall and proceeded to enter a room opposite,
under the direction of the little cripple. Richford seemed to be vague and irritated.

"What the deuce is the good of all this mystery?" he asked. "Why don't you come to the point,
Sartoris? But no, you must always be so infernally close, just as if you were the only one
of us who rejoices in the possession of brains."

"Well, so I am," Sartoris said, without the least display of temper. "You don't delude yourself
that you are a person of intellect, surely? Cunning you have of a low order, the mean, vulgar
cunning that enables people to make money in the city. But that is not intellect, my dear friend--intellect
is quite another matter. We very nearly landed ourselves in a serious mess because I did not
care to trust you too far. And when we were face to face with that mess, what good were you?
What good was anybody besides myself? Where was the brain that schemed out everything and made
success certain? True, I had allies upon whom I could depend--Reggie and Cora, for example.
But they could have done nothing without me. And now we have the thing in our hands again.
Come along, then."

Richford subsided, muttering to himself. From the room opposite came the sound of somebody
moving a heavy package of some kind, and presently the man called Reggie and the Rajah appeared
shuffling a big case between them. The box scraped over the polished parquet floor, leaving
deep scratches as it went; amidst a strained, breathing silence it was pushed into the dining-room.
Sartoris watched these proceedings with a curious gleam in his eyes.

"So far, so good," he said. "All we want now is Bentwood. He's very late. Go out and see if
you can make anything of him, Reggie. If that fellow has dared to get drunk to-night, I'll
give him a lesson that will last him for the rest of his life."

The little man's voice grew harsh and grating. Evidently he was a man that it would be dangerous
to trifle with. A curious silence fell over the little group; the whole room grew so still
that Field could hear his companion breathing. They were perfectly safe up to now, but if anybody
happened to go into the drawing-room for anything, and they were discovered, each knew that
his life was not worth a minute's purchase. Very steadily Sartoris steered his chair to the
side of the big case on the floor, and his hands began to fumble with the strings.

The front door opened with a bang that startled everybody, for nerves were strung up to high
tension and the least noise came with a startling force. The door burst open, only to be as
quietly closed, and a big man, with a red face and small red eyes, reeled across the hall and
almost collapsed in a heap on the floor.

"Night," he said unsteadily, "night, all of you. You may say that I've been drinking. Nothing
of the kind. The man who says I've been drinking lies. Experiment. Nothing in the world but
a lot of experiments which a braver man than I would shrink from. Sartoris, if you say I am
drunk, then I say that you are a liar."

"I should be a liar if I agreed with you," Sartoris said. "The whole place reeks of drink."

"So it does," the newcomer said with amiability. "Upon my word, you yourselves seem to be doing
remarkably well while I've been working for the good of the community. Give me a bottle of
champagne, to begin with. Poor stuff, champagne, only fit for women. But then, there appears
to be nothing else--why----"

The big red-faced man reached his hand out and Sartoris caught him a savage blow on the knuckles.
The little man's face was livid with fury, his eyes flashed like electric points.

"Pig, beast, drunken hound," he screamed. "Have you no sense of shame or duty? After to-night
I will give you a lesson. After to-night you shall know what it is to play with me."

The man called Bentwood lapsed into sudden dignity.

"Very well," he said. "Have it your own way. When you say that I am drunk you outrage my feelings.
You don't seem to understand that you can't get on without me. If I like to snap my fingers
in your face you are powerless. But I do nothing of the kind--such is not my nature. Give me
a glass of brandy and I shall be myself again."

Just for a moment Sartoris seemed to be fighting down the rage that consumed him. It was evidently
a big struggle, but the mastery came.

"Very well," he said. "I'll do as you want. Wait a moment."

The invalid carriage rolled rapidly across the room and down a long passage to the back of
the house. When Sartoris came back again he had a glass in his hand and a cup of black coffee
balanced on the chair before him. Bentwood snatched eagerly at the glass and drained it at
a gulp. Then he pressed his hand to his heart and staggered back.

"My God, you have poisoned me," he gasped. "The pain! The pain! I can't breathe."

"You'll be all right in a moment," Sartoris said. "I don't profess to your wonderful medical
knowledge, but some things I know, and one of them is how to treat a man in your condition.
What you regard as poison is a strong dose of sal-volatile--as strong a dose as I dare venture
to give even to a powerful man like you. Now drink this coffee."

There was a ring of command in the tone which was not to be disobeyed. As soon as Bentwood
had regained his power of speech, he drank his coffee. After the harsh, astringent drug, the
flavour was soothing and gratifying. In a marvellously short space of time the big man grew
quiet and a little ashamed of himself. His face was less red, he became more quiet and subdued
in his manner.

"I am truly sorry, Sartoris," he said. "I'm afraid I was very drunk and rude just now. But
I was not entirely to blame. Would any man be entirely to blame who had led a life like mine!
The things that I have seen, the things that I should like to find out! Then the madness comes
on me and I must drink or destroy myself. I fought for the possession of myself to-day until
I was a mere nervous rag of a man, if I had fought much longer I should have blown my brains
out. And what would you have done then?"

The man's tone was eager, almost passionate. Sartoris bent his head down so that the expression
of his face could not be seen by anyone.

"Say no more about it," he said. "You are quite sober now, which is the important part of the
case. I will discuss the other matter with you on a future occasion."

The speaker's tones were smooth enough, but his eyes gleamed like coals of fire. He was bending
again and fumbling with the straps of the great packing case. Field, watching everything intently,
asked Berrington what he thought of it all.

"I hardly know what to think," the latter whispered. "This has been a night of surprises--therefore
you will be prepared to hear that I know the man Bentwood well."

"You mean that you knew him in India?" Field asked.

"Yes, years ago. He was an army surgeon, and quite the cleverest man at his profession that
I ever had the privilege to meet. He might have made a large fortune in England, but he got
into some trouble and had to leave the country. It was much the same in India. Bentwood had
a positive genius for the occult and underground. After a time very few white people cared
to associate with him and he became the companion of the dervishes and the mullahs and all
that class, whose secrets he learned. I believe he is the only European who ever went through
the process of being buried alive. That secret was never betrayed before, and yet yonder fellow
got to the bottom of it. Also he learned all the secret poisons that they use out yonder, and
we were pretty sure that he was mixed up in the great scandal that followed the sad death of
the Rajah of Abgalli. You recollect that?"

Field nodded. He had a fine memory for all stories of that kind.

"We always said that Bentwood was the actual culprit, and that he experimented with certain
poisons that produced quite new results. Some said that the Rajah committed suicide. Perhaps
the poison administered to him took that form. Anyway, Bentwood disappeared, and it was generally
understood that he met his death by falling out of a boat when shooting sea fowl. That was
the story that one of his servants brought back, but we could never ascertain how far that
fellow was in his master's pay. Anyway, a year later one of our men came back from his long
leave, saying that he had seen Bentwood at Monte Carlo, and that he appeared to be bursting
with money. Another of ours was reported to have seen him after that, almost in rags, in London.
Anyway, he is an amazingly clever man, and perhaps one of the greatest scamps that ever lived.
Still, if we get any luck to-night, he will almost have shot his bolt."

"I think you may safely reckon upon that," Field said drily. "It's exceedingly lucky for me
that I ran up against you in this way, Colonel. But for that accident I should have been utterly
at fault. Anyway, I should not be here at this moment."

There was no chance for further talk, for by this time Sartoris had released the straps of
the packing case and raised the lid. The others stood around him, looking white and anxious,
with the exception of Bentwood, who was smoking a cigarette quite carelessly. With an impatient
gesture, Sartoris pointed to the case by his side.

"Now, then," he said curtly, "are you people going to keep me waiting all night? Do you think
that a cripple like me can do everything? Give a hand here, you men, whilst one of the others
clears the table. Pull the cloth off."

There was a clatter of china and glass and a clink of bottles, at the sound of which Bentwood
looked around with a sudden spasmodic grin on his face. But Sartoris scowled at him furiously,
and he turned his watery gaze in another direction. The table was clear now, and the Rajah,
with the help of the man called Reggie, and Richford, raised some inanimate object from the
trunk. It was limp and heavy, it was swathed in sheets, like a lay figure or a mummy. As the
strange thing was opened out it took the outlines of a human body, a dread object, full of
the suggestion of crime and murder and violence. Berrington breathed hard as he watched.

"If we only dared to do something," he muttered. "I suppose it is easy to guess what they have
there?"

"Easy enough, indeed, sir," Field said between his teeth. "It's the body of Sir Charles Darryll.
There is a deeper mystery here than we are as yet aware of. They are laying the body out on
that table as if for some operation. I don't know what to think; I----"

"Shut that door," Sartoris commanded in a hard high voice. "There is a deuce of a draught coming
in from somewhere. You don't want that, eh, Bentwood!"

Bentwood muttered that it was the last thing he did desire. The door closed with a bang, there
was a long silence, broken at last by a feeble cry of pain, a cry something like that of a
child who suffers under some drug. Berrington leaped to his feet. As he would have crossed
the hall a figure came along--the figure of a woman in a grey dress. It was the grey lady that
Beatrice had seen on that fateful evening, the woman who had sat by the side of Mark Ventmore
in the Paris theatre. She wrung her hands in silent grief.

"Oh, if only there was somebody to help me," she said. "If God would only give to me and send
to me a friend at this moment, I would pray----"

Berrington stepped out into the light of the hall.

"Your prayer has been answered," he said quietly. "I am here to help you, Mary."

CHAPTER XVII

The grey lady stood there, with her hands pressed to her heart, her great pathetic eyes dilated
with a curious fear. It was a long time before she spoke, though it was easy to see that she
had penetrated Berrington's disguise. But then, he had spoken in his natural voice, which made
all the difference. It seemed to him that the grey lady would have fallen had he not put out
his hand and supported her slender frame.

"Wait a bit," Berrington whispered. "Don't try to talk yet. You are surprised to see me here,
Mary. And yet it is natural enough--you must know that I have been seeking you for years. Why
have you carefully avoided me all this time?"

A little colour crept into the cheeks of the grey lady. Field had drawn into the background
with a feeling that he was not wanted here. Yet he was not pleased at the unexpected contretemps.
The detective had mapped out a line for himself, and he desired now to bring it to a successful
conclusion. And yet the interruption might not altogether be without its good results. Field
had, of course, already heard a great deal about the grey lady, and he did not doubt that the
pathetic figure standing there in the doorway was the same person.

"You will not forget to be cautious," he whispered.

The grey lady started. She had not anticipated that anybody else was there.

"Who is that?" she asked. "And how did you get here?"

"Well, we got into the house by the pantry window," Berrington explained. He had himself well
in hand again by this time. "I am afraid that we must have some kind of an understanding, Mary.
Would you mind, Inspector?"

Field was understood to say that he had no objection so long as it did not lead to anything
rash. He began to wish that he had half a dozen or so of his most trusted men with him. Meanwhile
his hands were tied and he could do no more than wait developments. He had naturally a keen
desire to know what was going on behind the closed door of the dining-room, but on that score
he would have to possess his soul in patience for the time. He had the comfortable assurance
that he could bag his birds, one by one, later on.

"Don't go out of earshot and don't betray yourself, sir," he said. Berrington gave the desired
assurances and he and his companion passed quietly across the hall to a morning room beyond.
This was at the back of the house, with a French window that gave on to the lawn. The grey
lady softly undid the catch.

"That will be an easy way out for you, if necessary," she said. "If anybody comes in here you
can slip out into the garden. And now, Philip, how did you find me?"

Berrington made no reply for the moment. He was looking at the pale features of his companion
with something like a lovelight in his eyes. Looked at closely it was a beautiful face, despite
its sorrow and the grey hair that crowned it. Berrington recollected the grey lady as a merry
laughing girl, who seemed not to have a single care in the world. His mind was very far away
from Audley Place at that moment.

"How long since we last met, Mary!" he said.

The woman sighed and her eyes filled with tears. Berrington had struck a tender cord.

"Four months, four years, four centuries!" she said with a passionate catch of her voice. "You
are not angry with me, Phil? I can see you are not angry with me."

"My dearest, no. When I look at you I can feel no anger in my heart against you. My God, what
you must have suffered! The same and yet so different. All your colour has gone, the laughter
from your eyes, the tender lines of your mouth. And yet at the outside your years cannot be
more than thirty."

"Thirty-one," the other said mournfully. "And yet I seem to have lived such a long, long life.
You think that I treated you very badly, Phil?"

"My dear Mary, how could I come to any other conclusion? You were engaged to me, we were going
to be married, the very hour was fixed. Then you disappeared utterly, leaving nothing more
than a note to say that I was to forget you and not seek you. I was to think of you as being
utterly unworthy to become a good man's wife."

"If you had done so a great deal of trouble and anxiety would have been saved, Phil."

"Yes, but I declined to do anything of the kind," Berrington said eagerly. "I knew that in
some way you were sacrificing yourself for others. And when I found that your brother had gone,
I felt absolutely certain of it."

"Did you discover anything about him?" the grey lady asked anxiously.

"Dear Mary, there was nothing fresh to discover. Your love for Carl made you blind to his faults.
Did we not all know what he was! Every man in India who knew him could have told you. It is
a painful thing to say, but he was an utter blackguard. But for influence, he had been expelled
the Civil Service long before he chose to vanish. It used to madden me to see the way in which
he traded upon your affection for him. Oh, he was a bad man."

The red blood flamed into the cheeks of the listener. Berrington could see her hands clasped
together.

"You are wrong," she said, "oh, I am sure you are wrong. Carl was a little selfish, perhaps,
but then he was so brilliantly clever, so much sought after. And when he fell in love with--with
the right woman, I was entirely happy. He was passionately in love, Philip."

Berrington gave a dissenting gesture. There was a bitter smile on his lips.

"Carl never cared for anyone but himself," he said. "It was a physical impossibility."

"Indeed you do him wrong, Phil. He was very much in earnest with Sir Charles Darryll's ward
who came out with her brother and his wife to Simla. All was going brilliantly when a rival
came on the scene. You were not in Simla at the time, and I daresay if you had been you would
never have heard anything about that unhappy business. Whether the rival used his power unscrupulously
or not I never knew, but there was a quarrel one day, out riding. Even Carl refused to speak
of it. But his rival was never seen again, and from that day to this Carl has been a physical
wreck. He----"

"You don't mean to say," Berrington burst out, "you don't mean to say your brother is the Carl
Sartoris who is master of this house?"

The woman hesitated, stammered, her face had grown very pale.

"You seem to know more than I imagined," she said. "Perhaps I shall understand better when
I know what brings you here. But Carl Sartoris is my brother."

"So he has gone back to his mother's maiden name! Does an honest man want to do anything of
that kind? But for the expression of your face, which is sweet and fair as ever, I should say
that you were in this business. But I have only to glance at you to feel assured on that point.
You say that your brother is more sinned against than sinning. Can you look me in the face
and say that he has no past behind him, that he is not making a mystery now?"

The girl's face grew pale and she cast down her eyes. Berrington kept down his rising passion.

"You cannot answer me," he went on. "You find it impossible to do so. You are running great
risks for a worthless creature who is as crooked in mind as he is in body."

"Oh, don't," Mary Sartoris said. "Don't say such terrible things, please; they hurt me."

"My dear girl, I am sorry, but it is best to state these things plainly. You may not know everything,
but you can guess a great deal. Otherwise, why did you try and see Sir Charles Darryll the
night before his death, why did you write him the note that was found in his bedroom? And again,
why did you stay in the hotel that night and try to warn the servants on night duty? You see,
Mary, it is quite useless to try to keep the secret from me."

Mary Sartoris looked at the speaker with dilated eyes. For a moment she could not speak. And
yet there were no signs of guilty terror on her face.

"I did not imagine that you knew so much," she said.

"I know more, but I would far rather know a great deal more," Berrington admitted. "Mind you,
matters are out of my hands and the police are hot on the track. Why do you not confess everything
and save yourself, Mary? For instance, you stand a chance of being placed in the dock on a
charge of being concerned in the disappearance of Sir Charles Darryll's body."

"I am as innocent of that as the grave, Phil. I only did my best to try to prevent----"

"Oh, I know, I know," Berrington said impatiently. "But the fact remains that the body of Sir
Charles Darryll was stolen for some vile purpose, and that the culprits are in grave danger.
Your brother is at the bottom of this affair; he it was who drove up to the Royal Palace Hotel
in that black hansom that took the body away. And yet you say that that man----"

"Is more sinned against than sinning," Mary Sartoris cried. "I say it still. Of course you
regard me as blind and foolish, but then you do not know everything."

"It is not a matter of what I know," Berrington protested. "Of course I should believe every
word that you tell me. But the police will take another view of the matter altogether. Do you
know what is going on behind that closed door yonder?"

The girl shuddered and hid her face in her hands. She seemed afraid to say anything. Berrington
asked the question twice before he could get any reply.

"Indeed I don't," she said. "I am not altogether in my brother's confidence. I ventured to
say something to him to-day and he was dreadfully angry. He locked me in my bedroom, but I
managed to get the door of the dressing-room open and escaped that way. I was going to interfere
when I saw you. There seem to be other people there."

"Oh, there are," Berrington said bitterly. "There are two adventurers, called Reggie and Cora,
who very recently passed at the Royal Palace Hotel for General Gastang and Countess de la Moray.
There is the scoundrel Stephen Richford who tricked Beatrice Darryll into marrying him, and
then there is also a ruffian called Dr. James Bentwood. What was that?"

"It seemed to me like a cry of pain," Mary Sartoris said in a frozen whisper.

It was very like a cry of pain indeed, a fluttering, feeble cry ending in a moaning protest.
Acting on the impulse of the moment, and forgetting Inspector Field altogether, Berrington
crossed the hall and laid his hand on the knob of the door. Mary Sartoris darted after him,
her face white with fear, and terror and anxiety in her accent.

"Don't do it," she said, "pray restrain yourself. There are mysteries here, strange, horrible
mysteries that come from the East, of which you know nothing, despite the years you have passed
in India. Oh, the danger that lies there!"

In spite of his courage, Berrington hesitated. He might have recovered his self-possession
and returned to the drawing-room, only the strange feeble cry of pain was raised again. It
was more than flesh and blood could stand, and in a sudden passion Berrington opened the door.
He would have entered resolutely, but Mary pulled him back.

"The mischief has been done," she said hurriedly. "If anyone has to suffer let it be me. I
have brought you to this pass and I must get you out as best I can. Carl, what is this?"

The girl thrust herself past Berrington who stood in the shade of the doorway. There was a
sudden snarling, with a cry from the girl, as a blow tingled on her cheek. Somebody laughed
as if approving this cowardly business.

With a cry of rage Berrington darted into the room. Instantly a pair of strong hands were laid
on him and he was borne backwards. Just for a moment he lashed out freely and successfully
and then the weight of numbers was too much for him. The dining-room door was closed again.

CHAPTER XVIII

Inspector Field swore a good round oath under his breath. He had not looked for an insane folly
like this from a well-trained officer who might have been expected to keep his feelings in
check. But, as Field sadly reflected, it was useless to anticipate anything rational when a
woman came into the case.

Everything had been going beautifully and smoothly a few minutes ago, and now the plot was
ruined. Field was anything but a timid man, he had been in too many tight places in his life
to know the meaning of the word timidity, but then he had to exercise a certain discretion.

At the same time he was not blind to the fact that his military ally was in considerable danger.
The only thing now would be to bluff the whole thing through, to pretend that the game was
up and that the house was surrounded with police.

With this intention in his mind, Field crossed the hall and tried the dining-room door. He
was not altogether surprised to find the door locked. He listened at the keyhole, but he could
not hear anything whatever. Furthermore, the application of an eye to the keyhole disclosed
the fact that the room was in darkness. Despite his courage a thrill ran down the spine of
the inspector. There was some more than usually devilish work going on here.

"Well, it can't be helped," Field muttered. "It's the fortune of war. One of us has come to
grief, and if I stay here I may share the same fate, and I the only one left who knows anything
of the secrets of the prison house. I'll run over and get assistance and we'll search the house.
After all, my friend the Colonel has only himself to blame."

Without waiting for anything further, Field slipped out by the way he had come. Once in the
road, he glanced back at the house, but the whole place seemed to be in pitchy darkness. There
was nothing for it now but to make his way to the nearest police station, and get all the assistance
possible. There was no trouble at the station across the Common, the mere mention of Field's
name being sufficient. A few minutes later half a dozen constables in silent shoes were on
their way to the scene of action. There was to be no fuss and bother; they decided to enter
quietly and unostentatiously by the larder window, which was done without any noise whatever.

Once the exits were guarded, there was no necessity for further concealment. But though the
lights were turned up all over the house and the most careful search made, not a sign of human
life could be seen. Everybody had vanished, as if the whole thing had been a dream. Field,
standing in the hall and biting his nails, was fain to admit that he was beaten.

How on earth had those people managed to efface themselves in that amazing manner? They had
all apparently vanished off the face of the earth. And there was that bulky package too, that
Field believed contained the body of Sir Charles. It was long past midnight before Field left
the house, having taken precautions not to disturb anything, but even those precautions might
have been in vain. For all he knew to the contrary, the place might be watched by its late
occupants who were laughing in their sleeves.

"No use staying here any longer, Macklin," he said disgustedly. "I shall have to go back on
my tracks once more. Never do I take an amateur into my business plans again. But it looks
as if he has paid for his indiscretion. Good night."

It was late into the following afternoon before Field saw Beatrice Darryll again. When he did
so, he had nothing to report save failure. Beatrice listened with the greatest interest to
what had taken place the night before, but her interest gave place to grave anxiety when she
heard what had been the result of Colonel Berrington's daring action.

"Do you suppose that he is in real danger?" Beatrice asked.

"Well, I'm afraid he is," Field admitted. "You see we are dealing with the most daring and
clever and unscrupulous gang of scoundrels that I ever encountered. They would not stick at
murder or anything else if anybody crossed them. Mind you, it was a most foolish thing for
the Colonel to do. Still, he is a soldier and a very resourceful man and he may pull through.
Again these people may not have designs on his life; it is just possible that they might keep
him a prisoner until their plans had been successfully carried out. Of course when the Colonel
was talking to the grey lady to-night I was not supposed to listen. But I have very good ears,
and they spoke loudly at times. I gathered that the scoundrel Sartoris was once engaged to
a young lady who threw him over. Now it occurred to me that the young lady might give me an
idea or two, provided that she is in England at the present moment."

"Why should you think that she is not here?" Beatrice asked.

"Because the engagement took place at Simla. This young lady was staying with her brother and
his wife; unfortunately I did not catch the name. The curious part of the affair is that she
is a ward of your late father."

Beatrice looked puzzled for a moment. She did not quite understand.

"You mean that my father was guardian under a will or something of that kind?" she asked.

"That's it, miss," Field exclaimed. "We ought to be able to identify the young lady between
us, especially as the affair only took place three years ago or so, as I understand. If you
will pardon me for saying so, Sir Charles was a very careless gentleman, and hardly the man
that a careful parent would choose as a guardian. The young lady's father must have known yours
very intimately indeed, or very little, it does not matter which. Still, I don't suppose that
Sir Charles had many of these affairs on hand. Now, see if you can recollect anything of the
kind happening during the last three or four years, Miss Darryll."

Beatrice thought the matter over carefully for a moment. Her face lighted up presently.

"I fancy that I have it," she said. "Lord Edward Decié, who was a great friend of my father,
died about three years ago. The two men did a lot of speculating together, and indeed Lord
Edward passed for a shrewd and successful man. When he died I know my father was executor under
the will and that he had some control over the Hon. Violet Decié. I never saw the girl, because
she went to India with a married brother, and, for all I know she is there still. I understood
that she was rather an impulsive kind of girl who did wild things on the spur of the moment.
But you can easily inquire."

Field's face expressed a guarded satisfaction. So far he was not very much out.

"That is the young lady, miss," he cried. "I'll put the inquiries on foot at once. And I don't
think that I need detain you any longer."

"One minute," Beatrice said. "What about Colonel Berrington? What steps have you taken to find
him? Are you going to have that house at Wandsworth watched?"

Field intimated that he was, though in his opinion it was time wasted.

"They will expect something of the kind, you see," he said. "Of course it is a help to me that
my presence in the house was not suspected. They may conclude that Berrington was alone in
the business, and on the other hand they may not conclude anything of the kind. But, all the
same, I am going to have the house carefully watched."

Before the day was out the disappearance of Sir Charles's body was obscured by the strange
absence of Colonel Berrington. Field would have kept this latter fact concealed as far as possible,
but then Berrington's landlady had been his old nurse, and she was not rational in the matter
at all. The authorities had promised to do all they could, though the press accused them of
being exceedingly lax in the business. As a matter of fact, Field had given his chiefs an inkling
of the situation, so that they were really doing their best all the time. A carefully planned
watch on the Wandsworth Common house had come to nothing, but the people there had not yet
returned; indeed very little could have been done if they had.

And Field was turning in another direction. He had to trace the young lady who at one time
had been engaged to Carl Sartoris, and he had found it a more difficult business than he had
anticipated. It was a delicate business, too, calling for tactful manipulation. A somewhat
talkative aunt of the young lady was found at length. She took Field for a lawyer who was seeking
the Honorable Violet for her own advantage.

"Oh, yes. She has been back from India a long time," Lady Parkstone said. "Violet is a very
strange and clever girl. Yes, she has been engaged more than once. But the engagements are
always broken off. Violet was always in love with herself. But very clever, as I said before.
At one time she bade fair to become quite a famous artist, and she has had stories in the magazines.
Her last fad was the stage and that has lasted quite a long time. In fact she is on the stage now."

"In London, my lady?" Field asked. "She is not acting under her own name, of course?"

"No," Lady Parkstone explained. "She is Miss Adela Vane; at present she is playing at the Comedy
Opera House. It is just possible that you know the name."

Field knew the name very well. He departed presently well satisfied with the progress that
he had made. It was getting quite late by the time he had found out where Miss Vane lodged,
but he had time to go back to Scotland Yard again. There, a note from the superintendent of
the Wandsworth Police was awaiting him, asking him to go down as soon as possible. The note
was vague but it suggested possibilities.

The Wandsworth authorities had not much to say, but they had one detail. Last night one of
the men who was told to watch No. 100 had seen something. The windows were all shuttered from
top to bottom, each shutter having a little ventilator in it. Field nodded, for he had noticed
this himself.

"Very well, then," the superintendent went on. "So far as we know the house is empty. But is
it? If so why should a light have been seen last night, behind the little round ventilator?
The light came and went, and in a great flashing, dazzling kind of way for half an hour, and
then stopped. It was as if a child was playing with the switch of the electric light."

Field nodded and smiled. He looked exceedingly pleased with himself.

"Guess I understand," he said. "Especially as we are seeking for a military gentleman. We'll
go as far as Audley Place at once, and investigate. Only we shall have to call at the Post
Office and borrow a clerk out of the telegraph department. Come along."

Field volunteered no explanation, and his puzzled colleague followed him out of the office.
The telegraph operator and the others stood opposite the house in Audley Place till the patience
of all was pretty well exhausted. Then suddenly the light began to flicker in the upper part
of the house.

"Isn't that a message of some kind?" Field asked of the telegraph clerk.

"Right," the other said promptly. "That's a kind of telegraph dash and dot system. Whistle
a bar from 'when we are married.' Thank you, sir. That's what the gentleman who is sending
out those flash signals is asking somebody to do who happens to understand. That last lot of
flashes means 'Thank the Lord!' Now he's getting to business. He wants to know who we are before
he goes on."

"Can't you give it back again in any way?" Field asked. "Say it's me."

Very loudly the telegraphic operator tapped the pavement with his stick. It sounded quite meaningless,
but the light in the house flared up and down in a triumphant kind of way. The flickering began
once more and then stopped.

"It's Colonel Berrington," the clerk said presently. "He says you are not to bother about him
in the least, as he is quite safe, and so long as he is in there the men are not likely to
do anything rash. And here comes the gist of the message. You are to go to Edward Street in
the Borough and keep an eye on one of the houses there,--the Colonel doesn't know which. And
you are to go at once, he says."

CHAPTER XIX

Something had been accomplished, at any rate. It was good to know that Berrington was safe
and as satisfied with his surroundings as it was possible to be under the circumstances. Though
he was a prisoner, he seemed to have been able to obtain important information which he had
managed to convey to the outside world without alarming his captors.

"It's not so bad altogether," Field said. "Though I am by no means pleased with the gallant
Colonel, who has only himself to blame for the position in which he finds himself. You can
all go back to the station, and I shall not want the telegraph gentleman, whose services have
been so valuable. Of course, you will say nothing of what you have seen, sir."

The little telegraph clerk gave the desired assurance and went his way. But Field did not turn
his steps in the direction of London all at once. For a long time he stood looking thoughtfully
at the house in Audley Place. He was just about to turn away finally when the light began to
flash and flicker again. It went on a little time and finally ceased.

"Now, has he forgotten something?" Field asked himself. "I wonder if it is possible----"

Field crept quietly towards the house, across the lawn, and made his way to the back by which
he had entered the place on a previous occasion. As he expected, the glass removed by him had
not been replaced, so that he was free to enter if he pleased. It was a very risky proceeding
under the circumstances, but Field decided to try it. He would be much better satisfied to
gain speech with Berrington, though the latter's escape might have alarmed the criminals and
sent them to cover again.

Field was inside the house again before he had made up his mind what to do. The place was very
quiet, and it was evident that the servants had not returned. Perhaps there was nobody there
besides Berrington, who was a prisoner in one of the upper rooms. That being the case it was
by no means impossible to gain speech with him. Very carefully Field crept along the passages,
listening with all his ears.

He had not gone far before he heard a sound as of somebody moving. That somebody was coming
in his direction was certain. Field began to blame himself for his folly. If he fell into a
trap now, everything would be ruined. He turned down a side passage, without the remotest idea
where he was going, and came at length to a lighted room, at the end of which was a conservatory
full of flowers. The conservatory was open to the room, so that the whole place was a veritable
bower of blooms. On one side was a large bank of azaleas, behind which Field proceeded to hide
himself. He had hardly done this when there was a kind of creaking sound, the door was pushed
open, and Carl Sartoris entered in his chair. With great difficulty the cripple proceeded to
crawl into a big arm-chair, after which he took from his pocket a wig and a pair of spectacles.
He seemed to be expecting somebody. He gave a little cough, and immediately somebody in the
hall began to talk.

"Mr. Sartoris is in the conservatory room, miss," a voice said, and Field had no difficulty
in recognising the voice of the doctor, Bentwood. "Will you come this way, please?"

Field congratulated himself upon the line that he had taken. From behind the bank of flowers
he could see pretty well himself, without being discovered. A pretty girl, with wonderfully
beautiful fair hair and dark vivacious eyes, came into the room. She was not in the least timid;
there was an air of eager expectation about her.

"This is very good of you," she said. "I understand that you sent for me. If you are not in
a proper state of health to talk to me I can call again, Mr. Sartoris."

Just for the moment Sartoris made no reply. It seemed to Field that he was not altogether free
from physical pain. He shaded his spectacled eyes with a trembling hand, as if the light proved
a little too strong for him.

"It is not in the least inconvenient," he said. "I sent for you at this somewhat late hour
because I may have to leave England to-morrow. If I do so it will be for some considerable time."

In his mind, Field differed. He had other views for the speaker. He was puzzled, too, at all
these quick changes, and because there were so many threads in the plot.

"I can give you an hour," the girl said. "I must be in London by ten o'clock."

"Very well, I dare say we can manage it by that time. As I told you in my letter, I am a very
old friend of your father. We were in one or two ventures together, and some of them turned
out to be very successful indeed. Did he ever mention my name?"

"I cannot call it to mind," the girl said. "And yet it is not a common name."

"It is not in the least common," Sartoris smiled. "Perhaps your father did not speak of me
because we were not quite friends towards the last. At one time I was to be your guardian if
anything happened to your father. But we need not go into that, because it is not material
to the case at all." The girl nodded brightly, and her eyes expressed admiration of the beauty
of the surroundings.

"I believe my guardian was Sir Charles Darryll," she said.

"So I understand," Sartoris proceeded in the same grave way. "It was a most extraordinary selection
for a man with a keen business head like your father."

"But you are greatly mistaken," the girl exclaimed. "My father was a perfect child in business
matters. Even I was capable of advising him for his good. I should say that there never lived
a man who was so easily befooled as my father."

"Is that so?" Sartoris blurted out. "I'm--I mean, of course, yes, as to mere money, but he
was clever enough in some ways. Still, the fact remains that he made Sir Charles Darryll your
guardian. Did you ever trouble him at all?"

"I never so much as saw him, at least in a business sense."

"Ah," Sartoris cried. There was a deep ring in his voice. "Is that really a fact? You don't
know then that certain papers and documents belonging to your father passed to Sir Charles?
Your father told you nothing of this?"

"Not a word, except in a joking way. He spoke of securities and mortgages and the like that
were to be my fortune when he died. He told me to ask Sir Charles about them."

"Did you take the trouble to do so?"

The girl thought a moment before she replied.

"Once," she said. "Once I did say something to Sir Charles. He told me that every paper in
his possession had been deposited with his lawyers."

Once more Sartoris shaded his eyes with his hand. Field could see his fingers shaking. In a
hard voice Sartoris asked if the girl meant the family solicitor.

"No, I don't," she said without the slightest hesitation. "As a matter of fact the family solicitor
would have nothing to do with Sir Charles--he found him too expensive. It was some little man
in one of the Inns, Gray's Inn or Clement's Inn, who kept his creditors at bay. But more than
that I am afraid I cannot tell you."

Sartoris muttered something that might have been the strangling of an oath. Field began to
understand. Papers, and probably valuable papers, belonging to Sir Charles were necessary;
and the gang of thieves was at a loss what to do without them.

"I dare say I can find out," Sartoris said. "If I do, I fancy you will benefit considerably.
More than that I dare not venture for the present, my dear young lady, because so frequently
these things turn out very differently. If you could think of the name of that solicitor----"

"Perhaps I might," the girl said. "I have a good memory, especially for trifles. If I do recollect
the name I will write you here. Do you know you remind me of a man I knew in India. He was
much younger than you, of course, and different in many ways. And yet every time I look at
you and hear your voice I think of him."

"As a matter of fact I never was in India at all," Sartoris said hastily. There was a nasty
ring in his voice that caused the girl to look up, whereon Sartoris laughed, seeing that he
had made a mistake. "Excuse me, but this neuralgia of mine is very troublesome to-night. And
I am afraid that I am detaining you."

The girl muttered something soothing and sympathetic; at the same time she rose and crossed
to the bell. But Sartoris merely reached out a hand and asked her to help him into his chair.
He sank back into the wheeled contrivance at length with a sigh that might have been pain.

"I'll go as far as the door with you," he said. "No, I can move myself along. And I hope that
you will come here again; I'll let you know when it is quite convenient. Don't forget that
I may be the indirect means of bringing you a fortune. I am a very old gentleman, my dear;
won't you give me a kiss? Are you very much offended?"

The girl laughed and blushed as she bent down and touched Sartoris's cheek with her lips. A
moment later they were gone, and Field had emerged from his hiding-place. He had discovered
all that he required, for the present, and he decided not to take any further risks. The confused
pieces of the puzzle were beginning to fit together in his mind, but they were by no means
complete yet. Without further adventure the inspector crept back to the pantry and found himself
at length in the road. He looked at the upstairs window whence the flickering signals had come,
but it was all dark and still now, though it was not as yet late.

"So far, so good," Field muttered to himself. "It strikes me that that young lady is likely
to be of service to me. I'll find out who she is and whence she comes. And now to go off to
the Comedy and see if I can get in touch with the little actress who must play her part in
more dramas than one. I wonder if I had better see her at the theatre or follow her to her
rooms. I'll be guided by circumstances."

It was not more than half-past ten when Field reached the theatre. It was a popular house for
the moment, where the management was running a kind of triple bill, consisting of one-act musical
comedies, each of which contained the particular star artist. Two of the shows were already
over, and the curtain was about to rise on the third, when Field reached the stage door. The
inquiry for Miss Adela Vane was met by a surly request to know what was wanted. If the inquirer
thought that he was going into the theatre he was jolly well mistaken.

"So you just be off, or I'll call the police," the crusty doorkeeper said. "One way or another,
I'm pestered out of my life by you chaps. Oh, you can leave a message or a bouquet or something
of that kind, but it's long odds it's shoved into the dusthole."

Field smiled as he produced his card and handed it over. The effect of the little square of
shining pasteboard was marked and instantaneous. The man behind the bar was at once cringing
and ready to do anything.

"I'm sure I beg your pardon, sir," he said, "but we are pestered out of our lives from morning
till night. I dare say I can get you a few words with Miss Vane, who does not come on the stage
till the third piece. And from the bottom of my heart, I hope that there is nothing wrong,
for a nicer young lady than Miss Vane----"

"There is nothing wrong at all," Field hastened to say. "On the whole I've changed my mind.
Don't say a word to Miss Vane about me, it may alarm her. Give me a programme; I'll just slip
into the house and see Miss Vane from the stalls. Thank you."

Field made his way round to the front of the house, and presenting his card at the box office,
desired to have a seat for half an hour or so.

CHAPTER XX

The immaculately dressed young man in the office turned Field's card over doubtfully. He had
every desire to oblige, he said, but really the house was packed to its utmost capacity. Also
the well-dressed young man hoped that there would be nothing to disturb the harmony of the
proceedings.

"You may make your mind quite easy on that score," said Field with a reassuring smile. "There
will be no disturbance as far as I am concerned. I want to identify somebody whom I believe
is in the house, and when that is done my work is finished. Never mind about a seat--let me
stand by the side of the stalls so that I can pass for an official."

There was no difficulty whatever about this, and therefore Field stepped into the house as
the curtain was going up on the last of the brilliant trifles of the evening. The house was
packed to its utmost capacity with an audience that seemed decidedly to appreciate the bill
of fare that had been prepared for their delectation.

Field glanced round the house with his usual blank way that nevertheless took in everything.
Most of the people in the stalls were known by sight to him. In an upper box on the prompt
side he saw the dark face and eager eyes of the Rajah of Ahbad. He seemed to be looking for
somebody, for his glasses were constantly in use. There was a restless air, too, about the
Rajah, that showed that he was not altogether at his ease.

"We live and learn," Field told himself. "I wonder what yonder wily oriental would think if
he knew all that I have discovered lately. I suppose one of his favourite ballet girls is in
the piece. Pretty piece, too, and pretty music."

Field laid himself out for enjoyment for the next quarter of an hour. The heroine of the piece
in the form of Miss Adela Vane was late in appearing. The thing was dragging, too, or so it
seemed to Field. All at once there were voices at the back of the stage as if somebody was
quarrelling. Suddenly the bright tuneful chorus broke off altogether and a female voice screamed.
A little puff of smoke came from the stage.

In the twinkling of an eye the whole house rose and shuddered. There was a sharp crack-crackle,
followed by smoke, and forked tongues of flame licked the imitation forest, and with a swish
all the chorus fled from the stage. Far away up in the gallery somebody was roaring "Fire!"
A rush to the doors was already taking place.

From the stalls rose a tall man with a military air, who commanded everybody to wait. There
was no danger, he cried, if the audience only kept their heads. On the stage a manager, with
a white face and a perspiring forehead, announced the fact that the appliances for dealing
with the fire were of the finest possible description, and that there was no danger at all.

But it was all too late. The panic had already gripped the audience, and a yelling, frightened
crowd pressed to the exits. The smoke was getting thicker and blacker; the flames were making
the place unpleasantly warm. Field could feel the heat on his face. He had been close to the
stalls exit, and might have slipped away at once, but he had held his ground. It was he who
stood with his back to the door now.

"I'll knock down the first man who tries to pass me," he cried. "There is plenty of time. For
God's sake, control yourselves. Come quietly. Don't you know that the whole theatre can be
emptied in three minutes if people will only go quietly? Now come along and don't press." The
stern, hard tones were not without their effect. Field looked so calm and collected and confident
himself, that the feeling spread quickly all over the stalls. The fireproof curtain had not
been dropped for the simple reason that it would not work, as is often the case with appliances
of the kind. The stage was burning furiously.

But in the pit and dress circles and in the higher parts of the house other cool and collected
men had risen to the occasion. Women were crying and sobbing, and more than one had fainted,
but the mad panic was over, and something like order had been restored. The stalls were moving
quietly along now, and it was marvellous to see how quickly the place was being deserted. In
the vestibule a long queue of police had gathered and stood to prevent people huddling together.
In less time than it takes to tell, everybody was outside. Like magic an engine had appeared,
and men in helmets were jumping nimbly over the stalls laying their hose down. As Field turned
to go a little cry from the stage attracted his attention.

A girl stood there, dressed as a Watteau shepherdess. She seemed absolutely dazed and frightened,
a pretty and pathetic little figure in her great golden wig.

"Go back," Field yelled. "You'll have that blazing scenery on top of you. Why don't you go
back to the stage door?"

The actress turned at last and shook her head. Tears were rolling down her face.

"I can't," she said. "The fire is too great. I was in my dressing-room, and I did not know.
Oh, why doesn't somebody save me?"

It was quite clear that the little girl was too dazed and frightened to do anything. Without
any further loss of time Field jumped into the orchestra and scrambled onto the stage. The
hot flames drove him back for the moment; he could see already that the wig of the pretty little
shepherdess was being scorched by the hot fiery breath. He lifted the girl in his arms and
made a bold leap over the orchestra into the stalls. Then he carried her out into the street
and called for a cab. The air of the night was not without effect on the frightened actress.

"Where shall I tell the man to drive?" Field asked.

"I shall remember presently," the girl said. "I am altogether dazed and stupid for the moment.
I can see nothing but fire and smoke. Let me think. Oh, yes, it is coming back to me. Yes,
Mrs. Marsh, 124, Copeland Avenue, Regent's Park. Oh, it is very good and kind of you. Will
you let me tender my thanks when I am better?"

"I have done nothing," Field said modestly. A sudden idea occurred to him, accustomed as he
was to think matters out quickly and in all kinds of startling surroundings. "If I may, I will
call upon you to-morrow morning. Good-night."

The cab was whirled away, and Field went thoughtfully down the Strand. It seemed to him that
he had seen the pretty little actress before, but then such queer sensations are frequent in
times of danger and excitement, Field reflected. At the same time he could not quite rid himself
of the idea that he had seen the girl before. He pondered over the matter until another idea
filled his mind.

"By Jove," he exclaimed, "I had quite forgotten the Colonel's message. I was to go to Edward
Street near the Borough and wait to see what I should see. I'll just go and hang about there
for half an hour or so on the off chance, though I am as tired as a dog already. It seems to
me that I can't do better than take a cab."

A cab accordingly whirled Inspector Field to the upper end of Edward Street, which is by no
means a bad type of street for the Borough. The houses are of a respectable class for the most
part, the class of houses that let lodgings to medical students and the like. It is not the
sort of thoroughfare that is generally given over to adventures, and Field loitered about there
for a long time before his search was rewarded.

He was chatting to a policeman on the beat, seeing that he could not loaf there without arousing
the suspicions of the intelligent officer on duty, without disclosing his identity, when a
couple passed him. The man wore a long fawn overcoat and a silk hat; he was a well-dressed
man, as Field could see by his smartly cut trousers and patent leather boots. He was not alone,
for he had a lady with him, a lady with a handsome wrap. There was a genuine West End air about
these people that did not tally at all with Edward Street, as Field did not fail to notice.
People of that stamp generally had a cab when there was any outing to be done at that time
of night.

"Pull those people up and ask them some question," Field whispered to the officer. "I want
to get a good look at their faces."

The matter was managed quite easily, though the man in the fawn coat was short and inclined
to be curt in his replies. But it sufficed for Field, who expressed no astonishment as he recognized
the features of the man called "Reggie," and the woman called "Cora," whom he had seen the
night before at No. 100, Audley Place. In other words, he was once more hot upon the scent
of Countess de la Moray and General Gastang.

"Very good, indeed, Watson," he said. "That's a bit of luck I hardly expected. I'll just follow
these people and make certain. Good night."

Field had not far to go, seeing that the man in the fawn coat produced a latchkey and let himself
into a house a little farther down the road. The house was an ordinary looking one enough,
with plain green venetian blinds and muslin curtains below. In the drawing-room window there
was a card to the effect that lodgings were to be let there. It was pretty late still, but
a light in the basement testified to the fact that the housekeeper, or landlady, or whoever
she was, had not yet gone to bed.

"It's late, but I'll try it," Field said to himself. "So here goes."

The inspector walked up the steps and rang the bell. After a little time a tall slatternly
woman came to the door and looked sleepily out. She seemed by no means pleased to be disturbed,
and the way she wiped her mouth with the back of her hand suggested the fact that she had been
taking some of a pleasing and not altogether unintoxicating fluid with her supper.

"And what may you want at this time of night?" she asked suspiciously.

"Lodgings," Field said promptly. "I've just come to London, and I find the hotels so expensive.
I'm prepared to pay an advance--a matter of five and twenty shillings a week or a little more,
as it's only for so short a time. You see I am at the hospital."

"Well, if you are at the hospital you'd better stay there," the woman said with a laugh. "We
don't let lodgings at this time of night, and besides, I settled with a party to-day. I'm not
going to stand gossiping here all night. Be off with you."

The door closed, but not before Field had got a glimpse of the inside. The house was most beautifully
furnished, as he could see. There was an atmosphere of hothouse flowers and fruit, and the
like; a suggestion of exquisite cigars. A man in evening dress, with a diamond flashing in
his shirt, crossed the hall; somebody was laughing in a well-bred voice. All of this Field
did not omit to note as the door closed on him.

"That card about lodgings is a blind," he said. "That place must be watched. I'll get to bed,
for I'm dead tired. In the morning I'll go and see my actress friend. Probably she can tell
me all about Miss Adela Vane."

It was a little after eleven the next day before Field found time to visit the little actress.
He had stupidly forgotten to ask her name, but he seemed to be expected. He waited for some
time in a small prettily furnished room till the lady of the last night's adventure came down.
She arrived presently, bright and pretty and smiling, her hand outstretched--words of gratitude
on her lips.

"But I shall never be able to thank you properly," she said. "The public came very near last
night to losing their dear, dear Adela Vane."

"You are Adela Vane?" Field gasped. "Really you are Adela Vane?"

For Adela Vane was the girl who had been closeted the night before with Carl Sartoris!

CHAPTER XXI

To go back for a space to Berrington. Heedless of his promise, he had burst headlong into the
dining-room whence the cry came. He had forgotten altogether about Field. The fact half crossed
his mind that nobody knew of the presence of the inspector in the house, so that anyway the
latter's personal safety was not jeopardized.

It had been a foolish thing to do, as Berrington realised almost as soon as his mind cleared.
He had been somewhat badly mauled in the preliminaries, and now it seemed to him that he was
a prisoner in the hands of these people. The only consolation that was left to him was the
fact that Field would come to his rescue in good time.

But Berrington was by no means done for yet. To begin with, there was not the slightest trace
of fear in his heart. He had been in too many tight places before to have any emotion of that
kind. He fell back against the wall, panting for breath; he looked around him again for some
avenue of escape, but he could see none.

It was a curious scene, altogether, the elegantly furnished room, the litter of glasses and
china and crystal in one corner, the mysterious outlined figure on the table. The glare of
electric lights shone on the faces of the men there, on the impudent features of the woman
who had posed as the Countess de la Moray, and on the pale, supplicating face of Mary Sartoris.
For a little time nobody said anything.

It was Mary Sartoris who was the first to speak. She crossed over to her brother and held out
her hand with a gesture of passionate supplication.

"It is all a mistake," she cried. "Colonel Berrington is under a misapprehension. He imagines
that something wrong is taking place here; he has acted on the spur of the moment. He did not
come to the house to see anybody but me."

Sartoris grinned in evil fashion. Just for the moment he looked half convinced.

"He comes in strange fashion," he said. "All the same, I have not the least doubt of the value
of Colonel Berrington's friendship so far as you are concerned. But that is not the point.
Did you admit your friend Colonel Berrington to the house?"

For the fraction of a second a bold lie trembled on Mary's lips. But she could not utter it.
She looked down in confusion, and her face trembled. Sartoris grinned in the same wicked fashion.
A black rage was rising in his heart.

"Good girl," he sneered. "Always tell the truth. It is the proper thing to do, and it will
bring its own reward in the end. Only it is attended with personal inconvenience at times,
such as the present, for instance. How did Colonel Berrington get here?"

"I will save your sister the trouble of replying," Berrington cried. "I came here, acting on
certain information that had come to my knowledge. I came here to discover if I could learn
some facts bearing on the disappearance of Sir Charles Darryll's body. And I am not disposed
to think that my efforts are altogether in vain."

It was a bold speech and not without its effect. The woman called Cora turned a shade paler,
and the clean-shaven man by her side winced. The only one who seemed disposed to a mild course
of policy was Bentwood.

"For heaven's sake don't let us have any violence," he said hoarsely. "There has been too much
of that already. I mean there is no necessity for anything of the kind. If Colonel Berrington
knows anything of any of us----"

"I know everything," Berrington replied. It seemed to him that a bold course of action was
the best to be taken under the circumstances. "For instance, I have a pretty accurate knowledge
of the checkered past of Dr. Bentwood and the malignant scoundrel who calls himself Carl Sartoris.
Of Miss Mary Sartoris I will say nothing. There are others here, too, whose past is not altogether
wrapped in mystery. There are General Gastang and Countess de la Moray, for instance. And once
I am outside these walls----"

Sartoris pushed his chair close to the speaker. He was seething with passionate rage, his face
was livid with anger. For the moment he could do nothing; he only thirsted for the blood of
the bold Berrington.

"You are not outside these walls," he said. "You are not likely to be outside these walls for
some time to come. You have described us in language that you have spared no trouble to render
abusive. You know too much. And we have our own way here of dealing with enemies of ours who
know too much."

There was no mistaking the dreadful threat that underlay the hoarse speech. There was underground
murder in the eyes of Sartoris. Berrington smiled scornfully.

"I know exactly what you mean," he said; "indeed, I know more than you give me credit for.
And I will make my suspicions certainties."

Berrington advanced swiftly to the table and laid a hand on the sheet that covered the still,
silent form there. Another instant, and the whole mystery would have been exposed. But Sartoris
propelled his chair forward and grabbed Berrington by the arm.

"You cowards," he yelled. "If I were not cursed by these crippled bones of mine, I would have
plucked that fellow's heart from his body. Don't stand there like a lot of mummies. Pull him
back, I say, pull him back."

The harsh, ringing command seemed to restore the other listeners to a sense of what they owed
to themselves. With a cry, the man called Reggie was on Berrington, though Mary Sartoris had
fallen and clasped him around the knees. With an oath, Bentwood darted forward and flung himself
upon Berrington's shoulders. The struggle was a hot one, for the Colonel fought well, but the
odds were too many for him, and he was borne at length heavily to the ground. His head came
in contact with the floor, and he lay there just a minute dazed and giddy.

He had failed, too, which was the most humiliating part of the business. He had, at any cost,
resolved to make assurance doubly sure. He could see the grinning triumph on the face of Sartoris,
as he scrambled to his feet; he could see the tears in Mary's eyes. For the personal danger
to himself he cared nothing.

"Let's make an end of it," Sartoris cried. "He's too dangerous to live. Let us make an end
of him. Dead men tell no tales."

"No, no," Mary cried. "You shall not do it. No, no."

"Then go and fetch the police," Sartoris said with a little laugh. "Fetch them in, I say. Let
them come here and investigate, and after that you can stand in the dock and give evidence
against your own brother. My child, you are free to depart as soon as you like. Go now!"

Mary Sartoris stood there trembling and hesitating. Sartoris wheeled his chair rapidly and
dexterously across to her, and then raised his fist in a threatening manner. For a moment it
seemed as if he meant to strike the girl.

"Go now!" He repeated his command harshly. "Go at once! Go out of my house and never come back
again, you white-faced mewling cat. Pah, you dare not do anything. You are not to stay in the
room. Go!"

The girl seemed dazed and unable to exercise her own will. She crept with faltering steps to
the door. As she was going out, she turned an eye of affection on Berrington.

"If you will only promise me that there will be no violence," she said, "I----"

"I promise that," Bentwood said in a cringing voice. He was the only man there who seemed to
be restless and uneasy and anxious. "There is going to be no violence so long as I am here.
Why should there be any violence at all?"

The man asked the question with an eye on Berrington. For some reason or other he seemed very
desirous of pleasing the soldier, and yet not offending his comrades. Sartoris laughed.

"Cautious man," he said. "Always be on the safe side. Hang the girl, is she going to stay here
all night? Go, I tell you; take your white face from me. Go."

The door closed behind Mary Sartoris, and something like a sob came from the hall. With a sudden
fury and new strength Berrington darted to the table again. Once more he might have been successful,
but the keen eye of Sartoris was upon him; the cripple seemed to read his thoughts. Like a
flash the invalid chair caught Berrington on the shin, and sent him sprawling across the floor;
the chair sped on and there was a sudden click and the room was in darkness. Berrington had
a quick mental picture of where different objects were--and he made a dash for the switch.
Some great force seemed to grip him by the hands, he was powerless to move; he heard what seemed
to him to be the swing and jolt of machinery. Somebody was laughing much as if a funny play
was being performed before delighted eyes, with Berrington for the third man of the company,
and then the light came up again.

Angry and baffled and disappointed as Berrington was, all these feelings gave way to amazement
as he looked around the room. Every sign of a body had disappeared, the room was empty save
for Sartoris, who sat smoking a cigarette, with a sardonic smile on his face. All the others
had gone, and the body was gone from the table; on the latter was a dark crimson cloth surmounted
by a mass of flowers arranged tastefully around an electric stand. Sartoris laughed in an easy,
mocking way.

"Miracles whilst you wait," he said. "I just press a button and there you are. You say that
you saw a lot of people here and some object on the table. You would swear to that?"

"Being in full possession of my faculties, I would," Berrington said grimly.

"And where are they? There was no lady, there were no people, only my humble, sweet self always
glad to see my distinguished friend Colonel Berrington."

Berrington made no reply for a moment. It seemed hopeless to try to cope with the little fiend
who appeared to have all the powers of hell behind him. He looked down at the floor as if to
find evidence of magic there, but the pattern of the turkey carpet was intact, the big brass-headed
nails were in the corners and along the fireplace.

"'There are more things in Heaven and earth, Horatio, than are dreamt of in your philosophy,'"
Sartoris quoted. "As a rule your soldier is a dull man and not gifted with much imagination.
And so you have taken this matter up on the principle that Satan finds some mischief still
for idle hands to do. You see that I am in a mood to quote to-night. But on the whole you are
not what the world calls a bad fellow. On the contrary, I am. And that being the case, and
as I am not supposed to be in the least scrupulous in my methods, it stands to reason that
I am likely to get the better of you. Now you are a man of honour, and if you give your word
it is as good as your bond. Give me your word that not one suggestion of what has taken place
here to-night shall be spoken, and you are free to go."

Berrington laughed as he looked around him.

"Who is going to stop me?" he asked. "You seem to be sure of your ground. If you were not a
cripple I would give you the most perfect specimen of a thrashing that you ever had in your
life. My word will be passed to worthier stuff than you."

"So you are going to take advantage of my weakness and walk out of the house?" Sartoris asked.

"That is part of the programme," Berrington said. "I feel perfectly sure that a bold front
would dismay your friends. I wish you good night."

CHAPTER XXII

Sartoris sat in his chair without expressing any opinion or emotion of any kind. There was
just a faint suggestion of a smile on his face as if he were getting a little more pleasure
than usual out of his cigarette. He glanced quite casually in the direction of the doorway,
and he moved his chair just a little. Then his left hand stole quietly to his side.

"The battle is not always to the strong," he said in quite a gentle tone of voice. "But since
you will not give me your word, I must do without it. If you want to go, there is no reason
why I should detain you any longer. Good night, sir, and pleasant dreams to you."

Though the words were uttered in quite a simple fashion, there was a ring about them that Berrington
did not altogether like. He wanted to flatter himself that he had conquered this murderous
ruffian by sheer force of will, as he had done more than once with certain native tribes that
he had been sent out against.

But he could not think that he had any kind of right to the feeling. These people had really
got the best of him, for they had spirited away that mysterious parcel, and what was more to
the point, he had betrayed the fact that he had a pretty good idea of what that parcel was.
Why, then, was there this sudden change of front on the part of Carl Sartoris? The thought
was uppermost in Berrington's mind as he laid a hand on the door.

Then he reeled back as if struck by some stupendous unseen force. A great pain gripped him
from head to foot, his brain seemed to be on fire. In vain he strove to release his hand on
the door knob; it seemed welded to the metal. From head to foot the shooting agony went on.
With his teeth ripping his lower lip till the blood came, Berrington tried to fight down the
yell of pain that filled his throat, but the effort was beyond human power. A long piteous
wail of agony and entreaty came from him. It was only when the third or fourth cry was torn
from him and he felt the oppression of a hideous death, that the thing suddenly ceased and
Sartoris's gentle, mocking laughter took the place of the agony.

"You are not feeling very well," Sartoris called out. "If you are not altogether in a state
of physical collapse, will you kindly walk this way. A little brandy will about fit the case."

Berrington was past protest and past flight, for the moment. He seemed to be sick to the soul.
There came back to him the vivid recollection of the time when he had lain out in the jungle
all night, with a bullet through his lungs, waiting wearily for death in the morning. He flung
himself exhaustedly into a chair and gasped for breath. Sartoris watched him as some cold-blooded
scientist might have watched the flaying of a live animal.

"Your heart is not nearly so bad as you think," he said. "When the pressure goes from your
lungs you will be much better. That is a little dodge of mine which is built upon a pretty
full knowledge of electricity. Up to now I have not had an opportunity of giving it a good
trial. Are you feeling any better?"

Berrington nodded. The colour was coming back to his cheeks now, the painful feeling at his
chest was abating. The brandy was going to the right place.

"You malignant little fiend," he gasped. "I should be doing the world a service if I took you
by the throat and squeezed the life out of you."

"Well, the remedy is in your hands, though I doubt whether or not a judge and jury would take
the same sanguine view of the case. But you are free to try if you like. I am only a mere miserable
bag of bones, and you are a strong man. Get to work."

The cackling challenge passed unheeded. Actually there was something about the strange little
man to be afraid of. He took up the thread of conversation again.

"You will find that every exit is guarded in the same way," he said. "I have only to set the
whole machinery in motion and you are powerless. You are in my hands. If you had touched me
when I asked you just now, you would have been dead at my feet. But strange as it may seem,
I have a heart hidden in this crooked little body of mine somewhere. I was not always bad,
as you know. There was a time when I was another man."

"Never," Berrington said dispassionately. "The seeds of evil were always there."

"Well, let that pass, if you like. A bad man and a bad woman and a dreadful accident have reduced
me to what you see. What took place here to-night is beside the mark. The fact remains that
you know too much. You stand between us and a scheme that I have been plotting for years. Whether
that scheme is connected with Sir Charles Darryll matters nothing. The great point, as I said
before, is that you know too much. What are you going to do?"

"Wait my chance and publish my knowledge to the world," Berrington cried.

"And lose Mary for ever? Oh, I know that you are still in love with her, I know that you will
never be happy till she is your wife. But you seem to lose sight of the fact that she is strongly
attached to me. And if harm comes to me through you, Mary will never become Mrs. Berrington.
She will love you and leave you as they do in the stories."

"You cannot detain me here for any length of time," Berrington said coldly.

"I can keep you here till I have finished my campaign," Sartoris replied. "I could murder you,
and nobody be any the wiser."

Berrington thought of Field, and smiled. Hitherto he had not tried diplomacy. His contempt
and hatred for this man, his knowledge of his own strength and courage, had sufficed for the
present. Now it seemed time to resort to strategy.

"You are quite correct, so far," he said. "I know much, I know a great deal more than you imagine.
But in taking the risks I took to-night I did not do so blindly. I had my own reasons for attending
to the work privately. But I recognized my danger and the man I had to deal with. So, indeed,
I would proceed to make my retreat safe. Did you ever hear of sealed orders?"

"Naturally I have. But what have they to do with the present case?"

"Everything. When an admiral detaches a part of his fleet in war time, he sends the detached
part away with sealed orders which are to be opened under certain circumstances. If those said
circumstances do not arise, then the sealed orders are destroyed. As I do not desire my second
in command to know too much, I gave him sealed orders. If I do not return by a certain time,
those orders are to be opened. I should say that they are being opened about now. You understand
me?"

Sartoris nodded; it was quite clear that he understood perfectly well. But his dry little face
did not change in the slightest.

"That was clever," he said; "but not quite clever enough. I should have gone a little further
if I had been in your position. What you say merely induces me to get rid of you altogether.
But let us go into my room and discuss the matter quietly. Kindly turn my chair around, no,
not that way. Grip the handle at the back and push me----"

Berrington heard no more. As his hands came in contact with the brass rail at the back of the
chair there came a tremendous blow at the base of the brain, a cold feeling of sudden death,
and the crisis was past. When Berrington came to himself again he was lying on a bed in a small
room; there was a lamp on a table by his side. He had no feeling whatever that he had suffered
from violence of any kind, his head was clear and bright, his limbs felt as elastic and virile
as ever. He was like a man who had suddenly awakened from a long sleep; he was just as fresh
and vigorous. The bed on which he was lying completed the illusion.

"What new devil's work is this?" Berrington muttered. "Oh, I recollect."

The room was small but comfortably furnished. There was a fire ready laid in the grate; on
the ceiling was a three-branch electrolier, but the switch by the door had been removed for
some reason or other.

On the table by the bed was a very liberal supper, flanked by a decanter of whisky and a syphon
of soda water, also a box of cigarettes and another of cigars. A silver match-box invited the
prisoner to smoke. He took a cigarette.

Clearly he was a prisoner. The window was shuttered with iron, and a small round ventilator;
high up, inside the door, was another sheet of iron. There was perhaps a little consolation
in the fact that no personal violence was intended. For a long time Berrington reviewed the
situation. At any rate he could see no way out of the mess for the present. He smoked his cigarette
and ate his supper, and that being done, a feeling of fatigue stole over him. Looking at his
watch, he saw that it was past one o'clock in the morning, a very late hour for him.

"I'll go to bed," Berrington told himself. "Perhaps I shall be able to see a way out in the
morning. On the whole my diplomacy does not seem to have been a success. It would have been
much better if I had not hinted that I had taken somebody else into my confidence."

Despite his danger Berrington slept soundly. Bright sunshine was pouring into the room through
the little porthole in the iron shutter as he came to himself. By his side was a cold breakfast,
with a spirit lamp for the purpose of making coffee. Berrington had hardly finished and applied
a match to a cigarette before he was startled by the scream of a whistle. Looking around to
see whence the sound came, his eyes fell upon a speaking tube. His heart gave a great leap
as it occurred to the prisoner that perhaps Mary Sartoris was calling him. He crossed over
and pulled out the whistle at his end and answered promptly.

"Glad to hear that you have had a good night's rest," came the dry voice of Sartoris. "The
bed is comfortable, the sheets well aired, and I can vouch for the quality of the cigars. By
the way, as I have seen nothing of your confederate I am confirmed in my previous judgment
that you were trying to bluff me. Is not that so?"

Berrington said nothing, silence giving consent. On the whole it occurred to him it would be
far better to let Sartoris conclude that he was alone in the business.

"Very good," the dry voice went on; "you are like the curly-headed boy in the song who never--or
hardly ever--told a lie. Now there is one little thing that I am going to ask you to do. And
if you refuse I shall be under the painful necessity of causing you a great deal of physical
suffering. On the table by the side of your bed you will find writing paper, pen and ink. You
will be so good as to write a letter to Miss Beatrice Darryll or to Mrs. Richford--whatever
you prefer to style her--asking her to call upon you at the address which is stamped on the
head of the paper. You are to tell Miss Darryll that she is not to say anything to anybody
about the visit--that she is to come at ten o'clock to-night or later. Tell her also that she
is to bring the little bunch of keys that she will find in her father's dressing-case. You
may take it from me that no harm whatever is intended to the young lady. When the letter is
finished you will be so good as to push it under the door of your room."

"It is an excellent programme for you," Berrington said drily. "There is only one flaw in the
little arrangement that I can see--I decline to do anything of the kind. You may do whatever
you like and treat me in any way you please, but I shall decline to write that letter. And
you may whistle up the tube all day, so far as I am concerned."

An oath came up the tube, then the voice of Sartoris, as if talking to somebody else. The whistle
was clapped on, but almost immediately it was removed and another voice whispered the name
of Berrington. His heart gave a great leap. Mary was speaking.

"For heaven's sake, write that letter," came the agonized whisper. "I pledge you my word----"

The voice stopped and the whistle was clapped into the tube again.

CHAPTER XXIII

The request was a strange one, Berrington thought.

Not that he failed to trust Mary Sartoris. In spite of everything, he had faith in her. Whatever
she was doing in that queer household, no shadow of shame or disgrace could possibly lie on her.

And yet what could she want that letter for? Again, what was the need to drag Beatrice Darryll
into this black business? The more Berrington thought it over, the more puzzled he became.
Only one thing was tolerably clear--Sir Charles Darryll had valuable interests somewhere, interests
of which he had been in utter ignorance, and which these ruffians had determined to obtain
and apply to their own ends.

Still, Berrington hesitated. He did not know what would be for the best. If he declined to
write that letter it might be the worse for him and everybody else in the long run; if he did
write the letter it might possibly prove harmful to Beatrice. Certainly Carl Sartoris had that
end in view. Then there was another thing to take into consideration. Had Inspector Field got
safely away?

Berrington could not be absolutely certain, for the reason that there had been no attempt to
rescue him which was Field's obvious duty when he escaped. Yet a great many hours had passed
and there had been no attempt of the kind.

Very thoughtfully Berrington took paper and pen and ink from the drawer in the table. He was
not surprised to see that the paper bore the address "100, Audley Place." So Beatrice was to
be lured there for some reason, or other, and Berrington was to be used for the purpose. He
threw the pen down and determined that he would do nothing in the matter. He had barely come
to this conclusion when the whistle in the tube sounded very faintly. It might have been no
more than the wind in the pipe, and yet on the other hand it might have been meant for a cautious
message. Berrington crossed over and asked a question in a low voice. Immediately a reply came
in the faintest possible whisper.

"It is I who speak," the voice said. "Mary, you know. By accident I have a chance of a few
words with you again. My brother thinks that I am in ignorance of everything. He told me that
you had left the house and that everybody had gone. At the same time he declined to have the
servants back yet, and that aroused my suspicions. You can hear me?"

"My dearest girl, I can hear you perfectly well," Berrington replied. "Where is your brother
now? Can you speak freely to me for a time?"

"For a minute or two perhaps, certainly not more. Carl has gone into the conservatory for something;
he may be back almost at once. He told me that you had gone. I did not believe it for a minute,
so I watched and listened. Then I found out that you were a prisoner here; I found out all
about the letter."

"The letter to Beatrice Darryll, you mean?"

"Yes, yes. Don't ask me why they desire to get her here, because I can't tell you,--I don't
know. But there is something about Burmah and ruby mines that I fail to understand. It has
something to do with Sir Charles Darryll and Miss Violet Decié's father."

"Shall we ever get to the bottom of this business!" Berrington exclaimed. "But why should you
particularly want me to write that letter?"

"Because I shall be chosen as the messenger," the girl said eagerly. "There are no servants
here; the rest of my brother's friends are busy elsewhere. I gather that the letter is urgent;
that being the case, I shall be chosen to take it. You see, I am supposed to know nothing whatever
about it. I shall be able to see Miss Darryll myself."

Berrington expressed his appreciation of the suggestion. Perhaps Mary might find herself in
a position to do more than that.

"Very well," he said. "Under the circumstances I am to write that letter with the understanding
that you are going to convey it to its destination and warn Miss Darryll. But you must do more
than that, Mary. It is impossible that I can remain a prisoner here like this. The thing is
a daring outrage in the middle of London; it sounds more like a page from a romance than anything
else. At all risks, even to the brother by whom you are standing so nobly, you must do this
thing for me. After you have seen Miss Darryll you are to go down to Scotland Yard and ask
for an interview with Inspector Field. Tell him where I am to be found and----"

"Oh, I cannot, Philip, dearest," came the trembling whisper. "My own brother----"

"Who has been the curse of your life and mine," Berrington said sternly. "What do you suppose
you gain by standing by him in this fashion? Sooner or later he must come within grip of the
law, and so all your sufferings will be futile. If there was anything to gain by this self-sacrifice
I would say nothing. But to spoil your life for a scoundrel like that----"

"Don't say it, Phil," Mary's voice pleaded. "Please don't say it. If you love me as you once
seemed to do, have a little patience."

All the anger melted out of Berrington's heart. He had intended to be hard and stern, but that
gentle, pleading voice softened him at once. Knowing Mary as he did, he could imagine what
her life had been these last three years. Her sense of duty was a mistaken one, perhaps, but
it was nobly carried out, all the same. Sooner or later the effort must be lost, and it occurred
to Berrington that it would be cruel to hurry the end. Besides, there would be a greater satisfaction
to him to feel that he had beaten Sartoris at his own game.

"I love you now as I loved you in the happy years gone by," he said. "Indeed, I love you more,
for I know how you have suffered, dearest. Mind you, I am not afraid. I do not regard myself
as being in any great danger here--that is not the point. So I will write the letter and you
shall deliver it when you please. What is that?"

There was a sudden commotion at the far end of the speaking tube, and something like the sound
of wheels. Berrington bent his head eagerly to listen.

"Is there anybody there?" he asked.

"My brother is coming back," Mary said in a voice so faint that Berrington could hardly catch
the words. "I must fly. If he knows that I have been here he will have his suspicions. I will
speak to you again as soon as possible."

The whistle was clapped to, and the conversation ended. There was nothing for it now but patience.
Berrington took the pen and began to write the letter. He wondered if he could possibly warn
Beatrice between the lines. There was yet a chance that Mary might not be the messenger.

Berrington racked his brains, but all to no purpose. He must leave the matter to chance, after
all. The speaking tube was going again, for the whistle trilled shrilly. Sartoris was at the
other end again; he seemed to be on very good terms with himself.

"What about that letter?" he asked. "Have you changed your mind yet? Solitary confinement worked
sufficiently on your nerves yet? Not that there's any hurry."

"What shall I gain if I write the letter?" Berrington asked.

"Gain! Why, nothing. The cards are all in my hands, and I play them as I please. 'Yours not
to reason why, yours not to make reply,' as Tennyson says. For the present you are a prisoner,
and for the present you stay where you are. But one thing for your comfort. The sooner that
letter is written and dispatched, the sooner you will be free. We are not taking all these
risks for nothing, and our reward is close at hand now, I may tell you. If you don't write
that letter I shall have to forge it, and that takes time. Also a longer detention of your
handsome person. If you consent to write that letter you will be free in eight and forty hours.
Don't address the envelope."

Berrington checked a desire to fling the suggestion back in the speaker's teeth. It angered
him to feel that he was in the power of this little cripple, and that events in which he should
have taken a hand were proceeding without him. But it was no time for feeling of that kind.

"I admit the defeat of the moment," he said. "I will write that letter at once. But look to
yourself when my time comes."

Sartoris laughed scornfully, as he could afford to do. Berrington could hear him humming as
he clapped in the whistle, and then silence fell again. The letter was finished and sealed
at length, and pushed under the door as Sartoris had directed. A little later and there came
the sound of a footstep outside and a gentle scratching on the door panel.

"Is that you, Mary?" Berrington asked, instantly guessing who it was. "Have you come for the
letter?"

"Yes, I have," was the whispered reply. "My brother could not manage to get up the stairs.
He has one of his very bad attacks to-day. He has not the least idea that I know anything.
He said he dropped an unaddressed letter on this landing last night, and he asked me to fetch
it. I dare not stay a minute."

"Don't go quite yet," Berrington pleaded. "I have had a brilliant idea. I can't stop to tell
you what it is just now. The switch of the electric light has been removed from here. Can you
tell me where I can find it?"

"You want more light?" Mary asked. "Well, it is a little dreary in there with only a lamp.
The switch was taken off some time ago when the walls were being done, and the electricians
forgot to replace it. It is somewhere in the room, for I recollect seeing it. But unless you
understand that kind of work----"

"Oh, soldiers understand something of everything," said Berrington cheerfully. "I shall be
able to manage, no doubt. I won't detain you any longer."

Mary slipped away, and Berrington commenced to make a careful search of the room. He found
what he wanted presently, in a little blue cup on the overmantel, and in a few minutes he had
fixed the switch to the wall. As he pressed the little brass stud down, the room was flooded
with a brilliant light.

"There's some comfort in being able to see, at any rate," Berrington reflected. "It's ten chances
to one that my little scheme does not come off, yet the tenth chance may work in my favour.
I'll wait till it gets dark--no use trying it before."

Berrington dozed off in his chair, and soon fell into a profound sleep. When he came to himself
again, a clock somewhere was striking the hour of eleven. There was no stream of light through
the little round ventilator in the shutter, so that Berrington did not need to be told that
the hour was eleven o'clock at night.

"By Jove, what a time I've slept," the soldier muttered. "What's that?"

Loud voices downstairs, voices of men quarrelling. Berrington pulled the whistle out of the
tube and listened. Someone had removed the whistle from the other end, or else it had been
left out by accident, for the sound came quite clear and distinct.

It was the voice of Sartoris that was speaking, a voice like a snarling dog.

"I tell you you are wrong," Sartoris said. "You tried to fool me, and when we make use of you
and get the better of you, then you whine like a cur that is whipped. Don't imagine that you
have your poor misguided wife to deal with."

"My wife has nothing to do with the case," the other man said, "so leave her out."

Berrington's heart was beating a little faster as he glued his ear to the tube. He did not
want to miss a single word of the conversation.

"This grows interesting," he said softly. "A quarrel between Sartoris and Stephen Richford.
Evidently I am going to learn something."

CHAPTER XXIV

Every word of the conversation was quite plain and distinct. Richford seemed to be very vexed
about something, but on the other hand Sartoris appeared to be on the best of terms with himself.

"You tried to get the better of us," he was saying. "You thought that clever people like ourselves
were going to be mere puppets in the play, that we were going to pull your chestnuts for you.
You with the brains of a rabbit, and the intelligence of a tom cat! That low cunning of yours
is all very well in the City, but it is of no use with me. Where are those diamonds?"

"Those diamonds are so safe that we can't touch them," Richford sneered.

"Very well, my friend. Believe me, we shall know how to act when the time comes. But you are
wasting time here. You should be in Edward Street long ago. Edward Street in the Borough; you
know the place I mean. The others are there, Reggie and Cora and the rest, to say nothing of
the object of our solicitous desires. You follow me?"

"Oh, yes, I follow everything, confound you," Richford growled. "You are trying to frighten
me with your cry of danger. As if I was fool enough to believe that story."

"You can just please yourself whether you believe it or not," Sartoris replied. "But the danger
is real enough. I have had the salt two days now in succession. It is true that it came by
post and was not addressed to me here, but it is proof positive of the fact that our yellow
friends are on the right track at last. They may even be outside now. That is why I want you
to go as far as Edward Street without delay."

Richford seemed to be convinced at last, for he made no reply.

"And you need not worry about your wife for the present," Sartoris went on. "So long as she
is your wife you come in for your share of the plunder when the division takes place. Nor need
you let her know that you married her for her fortune, and not for her pretty face. People
will be surprised to discover what a rich man Sir Charles really was."

Berrington started with surprise. A great flood of light had been let in on the scene in the
last few words of this overheard conversation. So there was a large fortune somewhere, and
this was at the bottom of this dark conspiracy. The conversation trailed off presently, and
Berrington heard no more. But his heart was beating now with fierce exultation, for he had
heard enough. Without knowing it, Sir Charles Darryll had been a rich man. But those miscreants
knew it, and that was the reason why they were working in this strange way. A door closed somewhere
and then there was silence. It was quite evident that Richford had left the house.

A minute or two later and Berrington got his flash signal at work. He used it over and over
again for an hour or so in the hope that the house was being watched. A great sigh of satisfaction
broke from him presently when he knew the signal was being answered. Once more there was an
irritating delay and then the quick tapping of the reply. Field was not far off, and Field
had grasped the scheme. Also he had to send for somebody to translate the flashing signs. Berrington
understood it now as well as if he had been outside with the police.

He sent his messages through quickly now, and received his replies as regularly. Nor did he
forget to impart the information he had discovered relative to the house in Edward Street,
Borough. On the whole it had not been a bad night's work.

A restless desire to be up and doing something gripped Berrington. He wandered impatiently
about the room, listening at the tube from time to time, in the hope of getting something fresh.
Down below he could hear the sharp purring of the electric bell and the shuffle of Sartoris's
chair over the floor of the hall. Then there was a quick cry which stopped with startling suddenness,
as if a hand had gripped the throat of somebody who called out with fear.

For a little time after that, silence. Then voices began to boom downstairs, voices in strange
accents that seemed to be demanding something. Evidently foreigners of some kind, Berrington
thought, as he strained his ears to catch something definite. Sartoris seemed to be pleading
for somebody, and the others were stern and determined. It was some time before Berrington
began to understand what nationality the newcomers were. A liquid voice was upraised.

"Burmah," Berrington cried. "I thought I knew the tongue. Burmese beyond a doubt. I wish those
fellows would not speak quite so quickly. I wish that I had learned a little more of the language
when I had the opportunity. Ah, what was that?"

A familiar phrase had struck home to the old campaigner. One of the newcomers was saying something
about rubies. There were ruby mines in Burmah, some of which had never been explored by white
men. Sir Charles Darryll had been out there in his younger days and so had his friend, the
Honourable Edward Decié. Suppose that rubies had something to do with the papers that Sartoris
declared Sir Charles possessed. Berrington was feeling now that his weary hours of imprisonment
had by no means been wasted. He heard Sartoris's sullen negative, a sound of a blow, and a
moan of pain, then silence again.

Perhaps those strangers downstairs were applying torture. Berrington had heard blood-curdling
stories of what the Burmese could do in that way. Bad as he was, Sartoris had never lacked
pluck and courage, and he was not the man to cry out unless the pain was past endurance. The
guttural language returned; it was quite evident that Sartoris was being forced to do something
against his will.

"You shall have it," he said at last. "I'll ask my secretary to bring the papers down."

There was a shuffling of Sartoris's chair across the floor, and then a puff of wind came up
the tube. Very quickly Berrington replaced the whistle. It flashed across him that Sartoris
was going to call him to assist to get rid of those yellow friends downstairs. But how was
that going to be done so long as the door was locked?

"Are you there?" Sartoris asked in French, and in a whisper, so low that Berrington could hardly
hear. "Speak to me, Colonel, and use the same language that I am using."

"All right," Berrington replied. "Anything wrong downstairs? What can I do to help you?"

"Come down as quickly as possible. Take your boots off, and creep into my study. I am in the
hands of two Burmese, members of a society to which I belonged at one time. They have come
to have my life or certain information that I decline to give them. You know enough of the
East to be able to appreciate my danger."

The story was more or less of a lie, as Berrington was perfectly well aware, but there was
a large amount of truth in it, nevertheless. Berrington smiled to himself.

"There is one little hitch in the programme," he said. "You seem to forget that I am a prisoner
here, behind a door that is protected by steel."

"I had forgotten that for the moment," Sartoris proceeded rapidly. "But it is quite possible
to open the door from the inside, if you know the secret. Turn the handle four times to the
right quickly and firmly, and then three times to the left, and the door will open. I dare
not say any more, as these fellows are beginning to look at me suspiciously. One minute more,
and I have finished. There is an old Dutch bureau at the top of the stairs by your door. In
the second drawer on the right is a loaded revolver. You may want to use it----"

The voice suddenly ceased, and a cry of pain floated up again. All the old fighting spirit
raged in Berrington's veins now. He was going to be free, he would have a weapon that he well
knew how to use in his hands, and he had obtained information of the most valuable kind. With
his hand on the knob of the door he followed directions. Four times to the right and three
to the left! A pull, and the door came open.

Berrington was free at last. As soon as he realised that fact his professional caution came
back to him. He kicked off his boots, and finding the Webley revolver, loaded in all chambers,
he crept like a cat down the stairs, and looked into the study.

Sartoris lay back in his chair with his hands bound to his sides. Round his head the two strangers
had strung a piece of knotted whipcord which one of them was drawing tighter and tighter with
the aid of a penknife twisted in the bandage. The face of the victim was ghastly white, his
eyes rolled, and the great beads poured down his cheeks. Berrington had heard of that kind
of torture before. His blood was boiling now, not that he had any cause for sympathy with the
little man in the chair.

"My God, I can't stand this much longer," Sartoris moaned. "Will that fellow never come! Or
has he failed to understand my instructions? My brain is blazing. Help, help."

Berrington strode into the room, resolutely but softly. The little yellow man who was administering
the torture seemed to have his whole heart in his work; he graduated the torture to a nicety.
He seemed to understand exactly how much the victim could stand without losing life and reason
altogether. He was like a doctor with an interesting patient.

"I think you will tell me where to find what we desire?" he said smoothly.

"And then we can depart and trouble the gentleman no more," said the other man, who was looking
on as coolly as if at some landscape. "Why put us to all this trouble?"

"I'll tell you," Sartoris moaned. "If you will look in the----God be praised!"

The last words came with a yell, for the startled eyes had caught sight of Berrington standing
grimly in the background. The latter's left hand shot out and the Burmese who held the penknife
in the cord staggered across the room from the force of a blow on the temple, which, had it
taken full effect, would have felled him like an ox.

Before he could recover from the full impact of the blow, Berrington was on the other man.
Then the two closed on him as he backed to the wall and raised his revolver.

"You see that I am too many for you," he said. "Put down those knives."

For two long cutting knives were gleaming in the light of the electrics. Nothing daunted, the
pair made a rush at Berrington, who fired right and left. He had no intention that the shots
should be fatal, but they both took effect, one in the shoulder and the other in the arm. When
the smoke cleared away Berrington and Sartoris were alone. A cold stream of air pouring into
the room testified to the fact that the front door had not been closed by the miscreants in
their escape. Berrington cut the cord around the victim's head and bathed his forehead with
water. A little brandy seemed to effect something in the way of a cure.

"My God, that was awful, awful," Sartoris moaned. "A second more and I should have died. Would
you mind shutting the front door? The cold air makes me feel like death. That's better. I dare
say you wonder what those fellows were doing here?"

There was just a touch of slyness in the question. Berrington smiled to himself. He wondered
what Sartoris would say if he only knew how much the listener had overheard.

"I suppose your sins are finding you out," he said. "They generally do. Personally, I have
no curiosity on the subject at all. And I have not the slightest doubt that your punishment,
though pretty severe, was at the same time well deserved. And now, sir, as fate has given me
the whip hand of you, have you any reason to urge why I should stay in this house any longer?
I take it that you are not quite in a position to place your electric battery at work from
this room as you did from the other. If you like to----"

Berrington paused, as there was a loud knocking at the door. Sartoris's pale face grew still
paler as he listened. Then he forced a smile to his pallid lips.

"Don't take any heed," he said eagerly. "Let them go away again under the impression that nobody
is at the house. Let them knock all night if they like."

But Berrington was already half-way to the door.

CHAPTER XXV

With the letter to Beatrice safe in her pocket, Mary made her way to the Royal Palace Hotel.
She had her own idea as to what she was going to do, and that certainly was not to invite Beatrice
to go to Wandsworth. For the girl had a difficult and dangerous task before her. Rightly or
wrongly, it seemed to her that her place was by the side of the brother who had treated her
so badly. Many a good woman before had sacrificed herself to a scoundrel, and many a good woman
will do so again. Mary had always clung to the idea that Sartoris might be brought back to
the fold again. She knew pretty well how far he had fallen, but she did not quite understand
the deep depravity of the man's nature. After all, he was an object to be pitied; after all,
he had been the victim of a woman's cruelty, or so Mary thought. But Mary did not know everything;
had she done so she would have been forced to leave her brother to his own devices.

She came at length to the Royal Palace Hotel, and asked for Beatrice. The latter was in her
room, she was told, and Mary went up. But Beatrice was not there, her place for the time being
occupied by Adeline, the maid.

"My mistress is out," the maid explained; "but if you will leave any message I can deliver
it. She will not be very long, in any case."

Mary hesitated. She had many things to do and no time to waste. It was not altogether imperative
that she should see Beatrice just at the moment. She turned the matter over in her mind before
she replied to Adeline's suggestion.

"I rather wanted to see your mistress," she said. "Perhaps I may make it convenient to return
in about half an hour or so. Meanwhile, will you please give her this letter. Will you be very
careful to say that Mrs. Richford is to do nothing till she has seen me? I mean that she is
not to take any steps in the matter of the letter till I come back. Will you be especially
careful about that?"

Adeline promised, in a vague kind of way. She did not express the usual curiosity of her class;
her mind seemed to be elsewhere. She showed Mary out with an alacrity that would have aroused
her suspicions had she had less to occupy her mind. But Adeline had affairs of her own to think
of. There was a very striking-looking valet on the same floor who had shown himself not insensible
to the girl's attractions. Adeline laid the note on the table and promptly forgot all about it.

In the full assurance that no harm was possible for the present, Mary went her way. It was
getting late in the evening now, and the hotel was full of people; a strange excitement seemed
to be in the air; outside, the newsboys were particularly busy, and there seemed to be a more
than usually heavy run on their wares.

Surely they were shouting a familiar name, Mary thought. She came out of her brown study and
listened. It was something to do with Stephen Richford. Surely there could not be two men of
the same name. No; it must be the same.

"Startling disclosures in the City. Collapse of a great firm. Richford & Co. go down. Warrant
out for the arrest of the senior partner. Flight of Stephen Richford."

Mary listened in amazement. Her brother knew a great deal about this man; he had always been
spoken of as a wealthy individual. And here was Beatrice Darryll's husband a criminal and a
fugitive from justice. Nobody appeared to be talking about anything else; the name was on the
streets. Mary could hear it everywhere. A bent man, with a clerical hat and glasses and an
Inverness cape, hurried by the girl as she came out of the hotel. Even this elderly gentleman
seemed interested.

He pushed his way into the hotel and feebly ascended the stairs as if he had business there.
In so large a place every respectably dressed man could pass in and out without incurring suspicion.
No hall porter would stop any visitor and ask his business, so that the elderly clergyman passed
unchallenged. As he came to the door of Beatrice's room he hesitated for a moment, and then
passed in and closed the door behind him.

"Nobody here!" he muttered. "Maid gone off on her own business, I suppose. Well, I can sit
down here and wait till Beatrice comes back. What's this? A letter addressed by some unknown
correspondent to Mrs. Richford. By Jove! Sartoris's address on the flap. Now, what does this
little game mean? And who wrote the letter? My dear Sartoris, if I only had you here for the
next five minutes!"

The man's face suddenly convulsed with rage, his fists were clenched passionately. He paced
up and down the room with the letter in his hand.

"This may tell me something," he said; "this may be a clue. I'll open it."

As frequently happens with thick envelopes, the gum was defective, and the back of a penknife
served to open the cover without in any way betraying the fact that the cover had been tampered
with. A puzzled frown crossed the face of the thief.

"Berrington!" he muttered; "Berrington! Oh, I know. That beast, eh? Now considering that he
is more or less of a prisoner in the house of my dear friend Sartoris, why does he write like
this to Beatrice? Damn Sartoris; there is no getting to the bottom of him, with his wily brain.
On the whole Beatrice shall be allowed to go. It's a horrible position for a girl like her;
but at the present moment I have no choice--perhaps I'll join the party later on. Hang those
newsboys, too--why can't they stop their silly clatter?"

The intruder replaced the letter, and a moment later Beatrice came in. She started at the sight
of the stranger, who made some apology for the intrusion. The man looked old and respectable
and harmless, so that the girl smiled at him. But she did not smile when the shovel hat was
removed, together with the wig and the glasses.

"Stephen!" Beatrice gasped. "What is the meaning of this?"

"Well, I can conclude that my disguise is a pretty good one," Richford grinned, "seeing that
you did not recognize me at all. And as to what this means, I should say that your own common
sense would tell you. Did you hear anything?"

"I heard the boys with the papers," Beatrice said; "but I did not connect ... do you mean to
say that you are, you are----"

Beatrice could not say the word. But there was no reason for her to ask the question.

"Why be so delicate about it in the presence of a mere husband?" Richford sneered. "Do you
suppose I came here in disguise just to give you a pleasant surprise? The bubble has been pricked,
and all the rest of it. I went for too much, and I failed, as many a better man has failed
before me. I have Carl Sartoris to thank for this; I should have pulled through but for him.
This is his revenge because I would not do as he desired. Whatever you do, beware of that man!
Don't go near him under any circumstances."

"I am not likely to go near him," Beatrice said coldly; "but tell me, why did you come here?
It is not possible that I can help you in any way!"

"Oh, yes it is," Richford said, with a certain good humour that caused Beatrice to turn suspicious
at once. "You can do a great deal for me if you only will. I am going to leave you a desolate
and disconsolate widow. A grass widow, if you like; but you will have your freedom. I am going
to leave my country for my country's good; I shall never come back again. But the crash has
come at a time when I least expected it, which is a habit that crashes have. I had barely time
to procure this disguise before the wolves were after me. They are hot on my track now, and
I have no time to spare. What I come for is money."

"Money! Surely you made a sorry mistake then!"

"Oh, no; I'm not asking for cash, seeing that you have practically none of your own. As you
refuse to consider yourself my wife, in future you must also decline to take anything from
me. Therefore those diamonds are not your property. If you will hand them over to me, we will
shake hands and part for ever."

Beatrice drew a long deep breath of something like relief. It was good to know that this man
was going to rid her of his hateful presence for ever, but this was too big a price to pay
for her freedom.

"Let us quite understand one another," she said. "Your business is ruined; there is nothing
left. What about your creditors, the people who trusted you?"

"Burn and blister my creditors," Richford burst out furiously. "What do they matter? Of course
the fools who trusted me with their money will cry out. But they only trusted it with me, because
they thought that I was slaving and scheming to pay them big dividends. It will not be the
welfare of my creditors that keeps me awake at night."

"Always cold and callous and indifferent to the feelings of others," Beatrice said. "Not even
one single thought for the poor people that you have ruined. What are those diamonds worth?"

"Well, I gave £40,000 for them. I dare say I can get, say £30,000 for them. But we are wasting
time in idle discourse like this."

"Indeed, we are," Beatrice said coldly. "So you think that in the face of what you have just
told me, I am going to hand those stones over to you! Nothing of the kind. I shall keep them
in trust for your creditors. When the right time comes I shall hand them over to the proper
authorities. Nothing will turn me from my decision."

A snarling oath burst from Richford's lips. He stretched out his hand as if he would have fain
taken Beatrice by the throat and strangled her.

"Don't fool with me," he said hoarsely; "don't play with me, or I may forget myself. Give me
those diamonds if you have any respect for your skin."

But Beatrice made not the slightest attempt to move. Her face had grown very pale, still she
was quite resolute.

"If you think to frighten me by threats, you are merely wasting your time," she said coldly.
"The stones are in safe keeping, and there they remain till I can give them to your trustees."

"But I am powerless," Richford said. "How am I to get away? In a few hours all my resources
will be exhausted, and I shall fall into the hands of the police. And a nice thing that would
be. Your husband a felon, with a long term of imprisonment before him!"

"I see no dissimilarity," Beatrice said, "between the deed and the punishment that fits it.
After all I have gone through, a little thing like that would make no difference to me."

"Then you are not going to part with those diamonds?"

Beatrice shook her head. Richford stood before her with one of his hands on her arm and his
other about her white slender throat. There was a murderous look on his face, but the eyes
that Beatrice turned upon him did not for a moment droop. Then Richford pushed the girl away
brutally from him and walked as far as the door.

"You don't want for pluck," he growled. "I believe that if you had flinched just now I should
have killed you. And I was going to save you from a danger. I shall do nothing of the kind.
Go your own way, and I will go mine."

Richford glanced at the letter on the table, then he passed out, banging the door behind him.
In the foyer of the hotel he sat down as if waiting for somebody. In reality he was trying
to collect his scattered thoughts. But it was hard work in that chattering, laughing mob, with
his own name on the lips of a hundred people there.

CHAPTER XXVI

The venerable-looking old cleric sat there for the better part of an hour in the patient attitude
of one who waits for a friend, but though he puzzled his cunning brain he could see no way
out of the difficulty. He had no money, and the police were after him. He recognised only too
well that he had to thank Sartoris for this--he had measured his cunning against that of the
little cripple, and he had failed. He had played for the greater part of the stake that was
at the bottom of the mystery, and he had paid the penalty. Bitterly he regretted his folly now.

Presently, his humming brain began to clear. He saw one or two people there whom he knew; he
saw Beatrice come down to the office and go out presently, with a little flat case under her
arm. Richford's eyes gleamed, and a glow of inspiration thrilled him.

"As sure as fate she has the diamonds," he told himself. "She is afraid that I should hit upon
some scheme for getting them, and she is going to dispose of them in some hiding-place. I'll
follow her. Courage, my boy--the game is not up yet."

As a matter of fact, Richford had summed up the situation correctly. In some vague way Beatrice
was a little alarmed. She had heard of such things as injunctions and the like. Suppose the
law stepped in to protect the rogue, as the law does sometimes. And Beatrice had something
else to do, for she had read Berrington's letter, and she had made up her mind to go to Wandsworth
without delay. But first of all she would walk as far as the old family jewellers in Bond Street
and deposit the stones there. She had every faith in the head of the firm, whom the family
had dealt with for so many years.

No sooner had Beatrice stepped out of the hotel than Mary Sartoris came back. She proceeded
quietly up the stairs to find Adeline alone in the room of her mistress. The girl blushed as
Mary put the question that rose naturally to her lips.

"I'm very sorry, miss," the girl stammered; "but I forgot all about your message and the letter.
I left the letter on the table, and my mistress has just gone out."

"Did she get the letter before she went?" Mary asked quickly.

"Well, yes, I suppose so, miss," was the reply, "seeing that the letter is no longer on the
table. I suppose that my mistress has got it. She must have done so, for the envelope is in
the grate."

Sure enough, the envelope with the forged handwriting of Berrington upon it lay in the grate.
Mary was too mortified to speak for the moment, besides there was no occasion to tell the maid
anything.

"I'm sorry you were so careless," she said. "Did your mistress go out alone?"

"I believe so," the contrite Adeline said. "She had a visitor, an old clergyman who----"

But Mary was not listening, she was only thinking of Beatrice's danger. At the same time she
had a clear recollection of the old clergyman, for he had pushed past her into the hotel at
the moment when she was leaving the building for the first time.

She went out into the street which was dark by this time. She would take a cab to Wandsworth
at once and get there before Beatrice came. But there was no cab in sight, so that Mary had
to walk some little way. At the corner of the road she stopped and hesitated for a moment.
Close by stood the well-dressed couple who had imposed themselves upon Beatrice under the guise
of Countess de la Moray and General Gastang.

Whatever were they doing here, just now, Mary wondered? Just for the moment it flashed across
her mind that they were prying upon her movements. But another idea occurred to her, as the
two were accosted by the old clergyman that Mary had seen before, and who had been a visitor
to Beatrice Richford such a little time previously.

She saw the man raise his hat politely at some question from the clergyman, then she saw his
face change to a startled expression, and instantly Mary understood.

"I know who it is," she said half aloud. "It is Stephen Richford in disguise. He has been to
see his wife. I should like to know what they are talking about."

The trio were talking very earnestly indeed now. Just for the moment it had looked as if the
man called Reggie and the woman called Cora had decided to give Richford the cold shoulder.
But he had said a few words, and the scene was suddenly changed. The three walked off together
and turned into a small restaurant a little way down the street.

Moved by a feeling which she would have had some trouble to explain, Mary followed. In some
vague way she felt that Beatrice was in danger. The restaurant was by no means a fashionable
one, and few people were there. Mary noticed, too, that the inside was divided into compartments
in the old-fashioned way. She stepped into the box next the one where the three conspirators
were seated and ordered a cup of tea. It was a satisfaction to the girl to know that she could
hear all that was being said in the other box. She heard the popping of a champagne cork, speedily
followed by another. She had only to sit there and listen. She had forgotten all about Beatrice
by this time.

"Wine like that puts life into a man," she heard Richford say.

"And gives him a tongue too," the man called Reggie laughed. "Deadly expensive stuff unless
you can see some reasonable return for your outlay in the near future. Come, Richford, we are
both eager to know how you propose to put money into our pockets."

"And yet I can put a lot," Richford said. "Oh, you need not be afraid of that crooked little
devil at Wandsworth, for he shall not know anything about it. What do you say to £10,000 apiece
and nobody any the wiser? Doesn't that make your mouth water?"

"It would if you could show me the way," Reggie said. "But in the most delicate way possible,
my dear Richford, let me put it to you--that you are under a cloud at present. And why do you
offer to divide the plunder in this very irrational way?"

"Simply because I am under a cloud," Richford growled. "I'm powerless and desperate. I don't
even know where to turn for a night's lodging. Now look here, the matter may take a day or
two, and in the meantime I've got to put up somewhere. And as a warrant of my good faith, I'm
not going to ask you for any money. All I require is food and a bed and shelter, and that you
may very well give me at Edward Street. Sartoris never goes there."

"Make it worth while and the thing's done," Reggie said. "Give it a name."

"Well, suppose we call it diamonds?" Richford suggested. "Have you forgotten those magnificent
diamonds that I gave my wife, bless her, for a wedding present?"

A little gasp came from the listeners. It was evident to Richford that he had struck the right
chord, for he proceeded with more confidence.

"I gave my dear wife stones worth nearly, if not quite, £40,000," he said. "I didn't hand over
that little lot altogether out of disinterested affection. A man who takes risks, as I do,
is pretty sure to come up against a financial crisis sooner or later, only it has been sooner
in this case. Though my wife chose to ignore me, I left the stones in her possession because,
being my wife, no creditor could lay hands upon those gems. I went to her to-day and asked
for them. Of course I did not anticipate any difficulty whatever; I expected that she would
cock that imperially haughty nose of hers in the air and hand them over to me as if I were
dirt beneath her feet. To my astonishment she utterly refused to do anything of the kind."

"Unkind," the woman Cora laughed; "and yet so like a modern wife. Had she pawned them?"

"Not she! I was fool enough to say something that was not quite complimentary of my creditors,
and she refused to part with the stones anyhow. Said that they would go to pay my debts. I
threatened violence and all kinds of things, but it was no good. I said that unless I had money
in forty-eight hours I should be in jail, but it was all to no effect. Did you ever hear anything
so maddening in all your life?"

"You have my deepest sympathy," Reggie said; "but you did not bring us here to listen to a
story that has no point to it like yours. You have got some scheme in your head for getting
hold of the stones. But you can't do it alone."

"If I could should I be such a cursed fool as to bring you two in?" Richford growled. "But
I--but I can't appear. All I can do is to show you the way and trust to your honour to give
me a third of the plunder when it is turned into cash."

"Hadn't you better get to the point?" Reggie suggested with undisguised eagerness.

"I'm coming to that. After my interview with my wife I sat in the hall trying to pull myself
together. Presently I saw her ladyship come down and go to the office. Those diamonds had been
deposited in the hotel safe for obvious reasons. My wife came out of the office presently with
the case in her hand. Then I recognized what had happened. She was afraid of some move of mine,
and she was going to deposit the stones elsewhere. It did not take me long to make up my mind
where she was going. She was about to take the plunder to Hilton in Bond Street."

"How long ago?" the woman called Cora asked eagerly. "This is important."

"Well, not more than an hour, anyway," Richford replied. "Why do you ask?"

"Because Hilton closes at five," the woman said. "I know that, because the firm has done several
little jobs for me lately. You may be pretty sure that your wife did not deposit those stones
at Hilton's to-day; therefore she still has them in her pocket. That being so, what we have
to do now is to discover where she has gone. If you like I'll go round to the Royal Palace
Hotel at once and see if she has returned. I'll ask the clerk in the office, and if he says
she has returned, you may safely bet that those stones are back in the hotel safe again. If
she has not returned, they are still on her person."

"It's just as well to make sure," Reggie said reflectively.

The woman flitted away and came back soon with a smile on her face.

"So far, so good," she said. "The lady has not returned to the hotel. Now, Mr. Richford, if
you can only put us on the track of the timid little hare, then----"

"Done with the greatest possible ease," Richford replied. "She's gone to Wandsworth. I can't
make the thing out at all, and in any case it does not in the least matter. When I was waiting
for my wife just now I saw a letter to her from Berrington,--Colonel Berrington. As you know,
he is a prisoner in Audley Place, and why he should have written that letter, or how Sartoris
persuaded the warrior to write it, I don't know any more than Adam. But that's where she has
gone. If you can intercept her before she gets there, or waylay her when she leaves, why there
you are. I don't suppose my wife will tell Sartoris that she has all that stuff in her pocket."

"Do you think that she took a cab?" Reggie asked.

"I should say not. Cabs cost money, and Beatrice has not much of that. Wandsworth is not a
place you can get to in ten minutes, especially after the business trains have ceased running
for the evening; so that if you took a cab----"

Reggie jumped to his feet excitedly.

"No use wasting time here," he said. "Come along, Cora. I'll just scribble a few lines on one
of my cards, so that you can be safe at Edward Street. There you are. And if I don't get those
stones before bedtime, why I'm a bigger fool than the police take me for."

Thrilling with excitement, Mary followed the others into the street. She saw the two get into
a cab, and she proceeded to take one herself. The cabman looked at her dubiously as he asked
where he was to go to.

"No. 100, Audley Place, Wandsworth Common," Mary said. "If you get there ten minutes before
the cab in front, I'll give you an extra half-sovereign."

CHAPTER XXVII

Meanwhile the fates were working in another direction. Field had stumbled, more or less by
accident, upon a startling discovery. He had, it will be remembered, called upon the little
actress to whom he had rendered so signal a service on the night of the theatre panic, and
whom in the heat and confusion of the moment he had failed to recognize, but now he knew that
he was face to face with the lady whom he had seen with Sartoris at Audley Place.

Field was not often astonished, but he gave full rein to that emotion now. For he had made
more than one discovery at the same time. In the first place he had found Miss Violet Decié,
Sir Charles Darryll's ward, who proved at the same time to be the actress known as Adela Vane.
But that was a minor discovery compared to the rest. Here was the girl who at one time had
been engaged to Carl Sartoris, and who was supposed to be connected more or less with his misfortunes.

Here was the girl, too, who might be in a position to supply the key to the mystery. Undoubtedly,
the backbone of the whole thing was the desire for money. Sir Charles Darryll and his friend
Lord Edward Decié had been engaged in some adventurous speculation together in Burmah. They
had doubtless deemed that speculation to be worthless, but Carl Sartoris had found that they
were mistaken. Therefore, trusting to his changed appearance and his disguise, he had asked
his old sweetheart to call upon him. The conversation that Field had overheard in the conservatory
was going to be useful.

The curious questioning look in the girl's eyes recalled Field to himself. He had instantly
to make up his mind as to his line of action. Miss Decié, to give her her proper name, gave
the inspector a little time to decide what to do.

"How can I ever sufficiently thank you?" she asked. "Really, I could not sleep all night for
thinking about the horror of the thing and your brave action. It was splendid!"

"Not at all," Field said modestly. "I am accustomed to danger. You see I am a police officer,
a detective inspector from Scotland Yard. It is a little strange that I should have been able
to do you a service, seeing that I came to the theatre on purpose to see you."

The girl's eyes opened a little wider, but she said nothing.

"Perhaps I had better be quite candid," Field went on. "I want you to help me if you can."

"Most assuredly. After last night, I will do anything you like. Pray go on."

"Thank you very much," Field replied. "It is very good of you to make my task easier. You see
I am closely connected with the inquiry into the sudden death of Sir Charles Darryll and the
subsequent startling disappearance of his body. Were not your father and Sir Charles great
friends in India long ago? Do you recollect that?"

The girl nodded; her eyes were dilated with curiosity. Field could not find it in his heart
to believe that she was a bad girl.

"They had adventures together," she said. "They were going to make a fortune over some mine
or something of that kind. But it never came to anything."

"You are absolutely sure of that?" Field asked.

"Well, so far as I know, the thing came to nothing. Some man was employed to make certain investigations,
and he reported badly of the scheme. I only heard all this talk as a child, and I was not particularly
interested. You see, I knew very little of Sir Charles, though he was my guardian. There were
certain papers that he deposited with a solicitor who used to get him out of messes from time
to time, but really I am as ignorant as you are."

"You don't even know the name of the solicitor?" Field asked.

"I do now," the girl said. "I found it among some letters. Do you know that a Mr. Sartoris,
who claims to know my father and Sir Charles, also wrote me on the same matter? He asked me
to go and see him at Wandsworth. He is a crippled gentleman, and very nice. He has a lovely
conservatory-room full of flowers. I was at his house only last night, and he talked to me
very much the same way as you are doing."

"I know that," Field said calmly. "I was hiding in the conservatory and listened."

Miss Decié gave a little cry of astonishment.

"Our profession leads us into strange places," Field said. "I heard all that conversation,
so there is no occasion to ask you to repeat it. You will recollect saying that Mr. Sartoris
reminded you of somebody that you knew years ago in India. Have you made up your mind who the
gentleman in question does resemble?"

The girl's face grew white, and then the red blood flamed into her cheeks ago.

"I have a fancy," she said. "But are not these idle questions?"

"I assure you that they are vital to this strange investigation," Field said earnestly.

"Then I had better confess to you that Mr. Sartoris reminded me of a gentleman to whom I was
once engaged in India; I was greatly deceived in the man to whom I was engaged; indeed it was
a tragic time altogether. I don't like to speak of it."

"Loth as I am to give you pain, I must proceed," Field said. "Was the gentleman you speak of
known as a Mr. Carl Grey, by any chance."

"Yes, that was the name. I see you know a great deal more than I anticipated. I suppose you
have been making investigations. But I cannot possibly see what----"

"What this has to do with the death of Sir Charles Darryll? My dear young lady, this is a very
complicated case; at least it looks like one at present, and its ramifications go a long way.
I want to know all you can tell me about Carl Grey."

"I can tell you nothing that is good," the girl said. She had risen from the chair and was
pacing up and down the room in a state of considerable agitation. "There was a tragedy behind
it all. I don't think that I really and truly loved Carl Grey; I fancy that he fascinated me.
There was another man that I cared more for. He died trying to save my life."

Field nodded encouragement; a good deal of this he knew already.

"Let me make it easy for you if I can," he said. "I have found out a great deal from a little
conversation, part of which I overheard between Colonel Berrington and Miss Mary Grey, or Miss
Mary Sartoris, which you like. There was a mysterious affair, but it resulted in the death
or disappearance of the other man and the permanent crippling of Carl Grey. Am I misinformed,
or is this practically the case?"

"I cannot see what this has to do with Sir Charles Darryll," Violet Decié said slowly.

"Pardon me, but it has a great deal to do with the case," Field replied. "If you knew all that
I do you would not hesitate for a moment. If you care to write it down----"

The girl stopped in her restless walk; her eyes were heavy with tears.

"I'll tell you," she said. "I must not forget that I owe my life to your bravery. As I said
before, I was engaged to Carl Grey. But for his sister I don't think that I should ever have
consented. But there it was, and I loved another man at the time. And the other man loved me.
There was a deal of jealousy between the two, and I was frightened. Carl Grey was always queer
and mysterious; he was ever seeking to penetrate the mysteries of the East. Strange men would
come to his bungalow late at night, and I heard of weird orgies there. But I did not see anything
of this till one day when I was riding on the hills with Mr. Grey. We had a kind of quarrel
on the way, and he was very difficult that day. We came presently to a kind of temple in ruins,
which we explored. There was a vault underneath, and Mr. Grey pressed me to enter. It all seems
like a dream now; but there were natives there and some kind of ceremony progressing. The air
of the place seemed to intoxicate me; I seemed to be dragged into the ceremony, Mr. Grey and
I together. Somebody dressed me in long white robes. Even to this day I don't know whether
it was a dream or a reality. Then there was a disturbance, and the other man came in; I do
not recollect anything after but blows and pistol shots; when I came to myself I was in the
jungle with my horse by my side. From that day to this I have never seen or heard of Mr. Grey,
and I never again beheld the man I loved, and who gave his life to save me."

Field listened patiently enough to the strange story. He had yet a few questions to ask.

"You think that Mr. Grey had been initiated into the mysteries of those rites?" he asked. "And
that his idea was to initiate you into them also?"

"I think so," Violet Decié said with a shudder. "There are such strange and weird things in
the East that even the cleverest of our scholars know nothing of them. An old nurse used to
tell the most dreadful tales. Perhaps the man who died for me could have explained. I presume
that he followed me, expecting mischief of some kind."

"I dare say he did," Field replied. "Did an explanation follow?"

"No. I declined to see Mr. Grey again. I heard that he had met with an accident; they said
that he was maimed for life. And people blamed me for being callous and heartless. As if they
knew! Even Mr. Grey's sister was angry with me. But nothing could induce me to look upon the
face of that man again, and I left Simla soon afterwards."

"And that is all you have to tell me?" Field asked.

"I don't think there is any more. It is rather strange that this thing should crop up again
like this, so soon after I have been to see Mr. Sartoris, who reminded me so strangely of Carl
Grey. Only of course, Mr. Sartoris is much older."

"I fancy there is not so much difference between their ages," Field said grimly. "You see,
a clever disguise goes a long way. And you say that you never saw Mr. Grey after that supposed
accident. A thing like that changes people dreadfully."

The girl looked up with a startled expression in her eyes.

"You don't mean to say," she faltered. "You don't mean to suggest that----"

"That Mr. Grey and Mr. Sartoris are one and the same person," Field said quietly. "My dear
young lady, that is actually the fact. Mr. Sartoris knew or thought that you could give him
certain information. It was necessary to see you. The name of Sartoris would convey nothing
to you, and in that interview the man was right. But you might have recognised him, and so
he disguised himself. I saw the disguise assumed; I saw you come into the room amongst the
flowers. And long before you had finished what you had to say I began to see the motive for
what looked like a purposeless and cruel crime. But you were certainly talking to Carl Grey
last night."

The girl shuddered violently and covered her face with her hands. The whole thing had come
back to her now; she blushed to the roots of her hair as she realised that she had kissed the
man that she only thought of with horror and detestation.

"If I had known, no power on earth would have induced me to enter that house," she said. "That
man seems to be as cruel and cunning as ever. But why should he have had a hand in the stealing
of the body of Sir Charles Darryll?"

"We will come to that presently," Field said drily. "Sartoris wanted certain information from
you, the address of a lawyer or something of that kind. You were not quite sure last night
whether or not you could find the information. Did you?"

"Yes," Violet Decié said. "I found it in an old memorandum book of mine."

"And you were going to post the address to Mr. Sartoris?"

"I am afraid the mischief is done," the girl said. "It was posted early this morning."

CHAPTER XXVIII

Hot words rose to Field's lips, but he managed to swallow them just in time. He could have
wished that the girl had not been quite so businesslike in her methods.

"I suppose that can't be helped," he muttered. "Though it certainly gives the enemy a better
start. I hope you have not destroyed the address of that lawyer?"

"Oh, no," Violet cried. "It is in my old memorandum book. Perhaps you had better take a copy
of it for your own use. I have no doubt that my letter has been delivered at Wandsworth by
this time, but as Mr. Sartoris is a cripple----"

Field was not quite so sure on that point. Sartoris, it was true, was a cripple, but then Field
had not forgotten the black hansom and the expedition by night to the Royal Palace Hotel. He
felt that Sartoris would not let the grass grow under his feet. From the memorandum book he
copied the address--which proved to be a street in Lincoln's Inn Fields.

"Evidently a pretty good firm," Field muttered. "I'll go round there at once and see Mr. George
Fleming. But there is one thing, you will be silent as to all I have told you. We are on the
verge of very important discoveries, and a word at random might ruin everything."

Violet Decié said that she perfectly well understood what she had to do.

"Sartoris may try to see you again," Field continued. "If he does, do not answer him. Pretend
that you are still ignorant; do nothing to arouse his suspicions. Perhaps it would have been
better if I had told you nothing of this, but I fancy that I can trust you."

"You can trust me implicitly," the girl said eagerly. "If it is to harm that man----"

She said no more, and Field perfectly understood what her feelings were. By no means displeased
with his morning's work he started off in the direction of Lincoln's Inn Fields. He was pleased
to find that the firm of George Fleming & Co. occupied good offices, and that the clerks looked
as if they had been there a long time. It was just as well not to have a pettifogging lawyer
to deal with. Mr. Fleming was in, but he was engaged for a little time. Perhaps the gentleman
would state his business; but on the whole Field preferred to wait.

He interested himself for some little time behind the broad page of the "Daily Telegraph,"
until at length an inner door marked "private" opened and a tall man with grey hair emerged,
with a crooked figure dragging on his arm. Field looked over the paper for a moment, and then
ducked down again as he saw Carl Sartoris. Evidently the cripple had lost no time. He was saying
something now in a low and rasping voice to the lawyer.

"My dear sir, there shall be no delay at all," the latter replied. "I am bound to confess that
that deed has made all the difference. I always told Sir Charles that that property was valuable.
But he would never see it, and if he had, where was the capital to work it? But why he never
told me that he had made the thing over to you----"

"Did he ever tell anybody anything that facilitated business?" Sartoris laughed. "I daresay
he forgot all about it, poor fellow."

Sartoris shuffled painfully out of the office with the help of the lawyer, and got into a cab.
A moment later and Field was in the inner office with Mr. Fleming. He produced his card and
laid it on the table by the way of introduction.

"This is the first time I have been honoured by a detective in all my long experience," the
lawyer said as he raised his eyebrows. "I hope there is nothing wrong, sir?"

"Not so far as any of your clients are concerned, sir," Field replied. "As a matter of fact,
I am the officer who has charge of the investigation into the strange case of Sir Charles Darryll.
And I am pretty sure that the lame gentleman who has just gone out could tell you all about
it if he chose. I mean Mr. Carl Sartoris."

The lawyer again raised his eyebrows, but said nothing.

"I see you have no disposition to help me," Field proceeded. "But just now Mr. Sartoris made
a remark that gives me an opening. He came to you to-day with a deed which, unless I am greatly
mistaken, purports to be an assignment of property from Sir Charles to Mr. Sartoris. And that
property is probably a ruby mine in Burmah."

"So far you are quite correct," the lawyer said drily. "Pray proceed."

"I must ask you to help me a little," Field cried. "Let me tell you that Carl Sartoris was
in the scheme to obtain possession of the body of Sir Charles Darryll. He was the lame man
who was in the black hansom. I have been in that fellow's house, and I have seen the body of
Sir Charles, unless I am greatly mistaken."

"Then, why don't you arrest that man?" the lawyer asked.

"Because I want the whole covey at one bag," Field said coolly. "Now, sir, will you let me
see the deed that Carl Sartoris brought here to-day? Yesterday he did not know of your existence."

"He has been going to write to me for a long time," Fleming said.

"I am prepared to stake my reputation that Carl Sartoris never heard your name till this morning,"
Field said coolly. "I can produce a witness to prove it if you like. My witness is Miss Violet
Decié, only daughter of Lord Edward Decié of that ilk."

The lawyer's dry, cautious manner seemed to be melting. He took up a sheet of parchment and
read it. It was a deed of some kind, in which the names of Charles Darryll and Carl Sartoris
figured very frequently. Field asked to be told the gist of it.

"An assignment of mining rights," Fleming explained. "A place in Burmah. It was a dangerous
place to get at some time ago, but things have changed recently. At one time certain Burmese
followed Sir Charles about and threatened his life unless he promised to let the thing drop.
But Sir Charles had assigned all his interest for the sum of five hundred pounds paid to him
by Mr. Carl Sartoris. Here is the signature."

The deed looked regular enough. Field looked closely at the signature of Sir Charles.

"Of course it would be easy to get the body of the deed written by a clerk," he said with a
thoughtful air. "If there was anything wrong about the thing, the false note would ring out
in the signature. Are you sure that it is genuine?"

"Quite," the lawyer said with conviction. "I'll show you some old letters of poor Sir Charles
if you like. The signature is a little peculiar in the respect that it has a long loop to the
first l, and a short loop to the second. That appears in every signature. Besides there is
that little flourish over the C. The flourish really forms the initials 'C. D.' Can't you see
that for yourself? Leave out ever so little of the flourish, and the 'C. D.' disappears."

Field was fain to be satisfied, though he was a little disappointed too. The pretty little
theory that he had been building up in his mind had been shattered.

"I suppose I shall have to give way on that point," he said. "Only it strikes me as strange
that a man should have allowed this matter to lie for three years without making use of it.
Unless, of course, Sir Charles's death made all the difference. Allow me."

Field's eyes began to gleam as they dwelt on the parchment. There was a red seal in the top
left-hand corner, a red seal with silver paper let into it and some small figures on the edge.

"What do those figures represent?" he asked. "The figures 4. 4. '93, I mean."

"The date," Fleming explained. "Those stamped skins are forwarded from Somerset House to the
various sub-offices, and they are dated on the day they go out. The date-figures are very small,
and only the legal eye gives them any value at all."

Field jumped up in a great state of excitement. He had made an important discovery.

"Then this is a forgery, after all," he cried. "4. 4. '93 means the fourth of April 1893, and
the deed is dated three years ago. How are you going to get over that, sir? I take it, there
are no mistakes in the date?"

Even the lawyer was forced out of his calm manner for the moment. He looked very closely at
the red stamp through his glasses. It was some time before he spoke.

"You are quite right," he said. "And as to there being a mistake in the date, that is absolutely
out of the question. You may be quite certain that Somerset House makes no mistakes like that.
It is most extraordinary."

"I don't see anything extraordinary about it," Field said coolly. "That rascal, clever as he
is, has made a mistake. Not knowing anything of legal matters in these minor points, it has
never occurred to him to see whether these parchment stamps are dated or not. He simply bought
a skin and got some engrossing clerk to make out the deed. Then he put in the date, and there
you are."

"Stop a minute, Mr. Field," Mr. Fleming put in. "There is one little point that you have overlooked.
I am quite prepared to take my oath to the fact that the signature is genuine."

Field stared at the speaker. He could find no words for the moment. He could see that Fleming
was in deadly earnest. The silence continued for some time.

"Well, I thought that I had got to the bottom of this business, but it seems to me that I am
mistaken," Field admitted. "In the face of the evidence of forgery that I have just produced,
your statement that the signature is genuine fairly staggers me."

"The deed purporting to have been executed three years ago has only been executed a few days,
or a few months at the outside," Fleming said. "What I think is this--there must have been
some reason why the deed was dated back. Perhaps the old one was destroyed and this one copied
from the other, and executed say a month or two ago. Would that not meet the case? You see
I am taking a legal view of it."

"You are still sure of the signature?" Field asked.

"Absolutely. On that head I do not hesitate for a moment. Whatever else may happen, I am positive
that Sir Charles wrote that signature."

Field scratched his head in a puzzled kind of way. It was some time before he began to see
his way clear again. Then a happy thought came to him.

"If they are so particular at Somerset House, the fact may help us. When those deed stamps
are sold to the public, are the numbers taken, and all that?"

"So I understand. But what do you want to get at? Yes, I think you are right."

"Anyway, I'm on the right track," Field cried. "If what I ask is a fact, then the people at
the sub-office will be able to tell me the date that parchment was sold. I see there is a number
on the stamp. If I take that to Somerset House----"

Field spent half an hour at Somerset House, and then he took a cab to Wandsworth. He stopped
at the Inland Revenue Office there and sent in his card. Giving a brief outline of what he
wanted to the clerk, he laid down his slip of paper with the number of the stamp on it and
the date, and merely asked to know when that was sold and to whom.

He watched the clerk vaguely as he turned over his book. It seemed a long time before any definite
result was arrived at. Then the clerk looked over his glasses.

"I fancy I've got what you want," he said. "What is the number on your paper?"

"44791," Field said, "and the date."

"Never mind dates, that is quite immaterial, Mr. Field. You have us now. That stamped parchment
was sold early this morning, just after the office was open--why, I must have sold it myself.
Yes; there is no mistake."

With a grim smile on his face, Field drove back to London. He began to see his way clearer
to the end of the mystery now.

CHAPTER XXIX

The cab with Mary Sartoris inside jolted along behind the other one, and presently Mary was
greatly relieved to find that her horse was going the faster of the two. She bitterly blamed
herself now for her folly in not waiting to see Beatrice, and still more so for trusting so
important a letter in the hands of a mere servant.

But it was idle to repine over the thing now. The mischief had been done and the great thing
was to repair it as soon as possible. As Mary's mind emerged from the haze in which it had
been enveloped for the last few days, she began to see things more clearly. Now she realised
that she had no settled plan of action when she set out to see Beatrice. She would have had
to tell her everything or nothing had they met, and she could not have done this without making
certain disclosures about her brother. She saw now that it would have been far better to have
destroyed the letter and said nothing about it.

But then Mary could not tell a deliberate lie of that kind, and Carl Sartoris would have been
pretty sure to have asked the question. He was pleased to regard his sister more or less in
the light of a fool, but he did not trust her any the more for that.

Mary lay back in the cab and resigned herself to the inevitable. It was good to feel that she
was leaving the others behind now, and her spirits rose accordingly. If she could only get
to Wandsworth before the precious pair, she would be all right, provided always that Beatrice
had not been in front of her. But as most of the trains were usually late there was more than
a chance of success in this direction. The girl was nearing her destination now. She lifted
the shutter on the top of the cab and asked if the other cab was at any distance. There was
a queer sort of a grin on the cabman's face, as he answered.

"About five hundred yards, miss," he said. "Something seems to have gone wrong with them. So
far as I can see the cab has lost a tire."

The other cab had stopped, and something like an altercation was going on between the fare
and the driver.

Mary had not far to go now, and she decided that it would be safer to walk the rest of the
distance. There was a little crowd gathering behind her and a policeman's helmet in the centre
of it. Truly fortune was playing on her side now.

It was not very far to the house; there it stood dark and silent, with no light showing in
the garden in front. Mary felt pretty sure that she was in time. Then the front door of the
house opened, there was a sight of the hall in a blaze of light, and in the foreground the
figure of a woman standing on the doorstep.

Mary gave a groan and staggered back with her hand to her head.

"What a piece of cruel misfortune," she exclaimed passionately. "Another minute and I should
have been in time. Why did I not drive up to the house? My over-caution has spoilt it all.
I am sure that was Beatrice Richford."

The door of the house closed and the figure of the woman disappeared inside. Mary had had all
her trouble for nothing. Not only was Beatrice more or less of a prisoner there, but those
thieves were pressing on behind. What was the best thing to be done now, with Beatrice exposed
to the double danger? Mary racked her weary brains in vain. And in a few minutes at the outside
the others would be here. It seemed impossible to do anything to save Beatrice from this two-edged
peril. Mary started as she caught sight of a figure coming up the front garden. It was a stealthy
figure and the man evidently did not want to be seen. As he caught sight of Mary he stopped.
It was too dark to distinguish anything but his outline.

"Beatrice," the man said in a tone of deep relief. "Thank God, I have come in time."

Mary did not know whether to be pleased or alarmed. Evidently this man was some friend of Beatrice
who had obtained an inkling of her danger and had come to save her. On the whole it seemed
to Mary that she had an ally here.

"I am afraid you are mistaken," she whispered. "I am not Beatrice Richford. But I am doing
my best for the young lady all the same. She is----"

"Don't say that she is in the house?" the man said in a muffled tone.

"Alas, that I can say nothing else," Mary replied. "I was just too late. Mrs. Richford had
just entered the doorway as I came up. If you will tell me your name----"

"Perhaps I had better," the stranger said after a minute's hesitation. "I am Mark Ventmore;
perhaps you have heard of me."

Mary gave a little sigh of relief. She knew all about Mark Ventmore. Here indeed was a man
who would be ready to help her. She drew a little nearer to him.

"And I am Mary Sartoris," she said. "If you have heard of me----"

"Oh, yes, you are the sister of that--I mean Carl Sartoris is your brother. But surely you
are altogether innocent of the--the strange things that----"

"I am innocent of everything," said Mary passionately. "I have wasted my life clinging to a
man in the faint hope of bringing him back to truth and honour again. I am beginning to see
now that I am having my trouble for my pains, Mr. Ventmore. Suffice it for the present to say
that Mrs. Richford stands in great peril."

"Oh, I know that," Ventmore said hoarsely. "I got that information from Bentwood, the scoundrel!
At the instigation of Inspector Field, who has pretty well posted me on recent doings, I have
been following that rascal pretty well all day. We won't say anything about Berrington, who
I understand is more or less of a prisoner in your brother's house, because Berrington is the
kind of man who can take care of himself. But Beatrice is in peril--Bentwood told me that.
The fellow's brains are in a state of muddle so I could not get the truth from him. It was
something about a case of diamonds."

"Yes, yes," Mary said. "The diamonds that Mr. Richford gave his wife for a wedding present.
Mr. Richford has got himself into severe trouble."

"Richford is a disgraced and ruined man. The police are after him."

"So I gathered. He is now in the disguise of an elderly clergyman, and at present he is----"

"Hiding in that house at Edward Street," Mark cried. "I saw him with Bentwood. But what has
he to do with those diamonds?"

"Everything. I overheard the plot laid," Mary proceeded to explain. "Mr. Richford went to his
wife and demanded the diamonds. He wanted to raise money so that he could go away in comfort
and luxury. He told his wife exactly how he was situated. She refused to comply with the request
on the ground that the stones belonged to Mr. Richford's creditors. Then unhappily, Mrs. Richford
withdrew the diamonds from the custody of the hotel officials, being afraid that there would
be a bother over them or something of that kind. Richford watched her do it. Then he met two
accomplices who recently passed as General Gastang and Countess de la Moray, and the plot was
laid. Mrs. Richford was to come here."

"But in the name of fortune, why was she to come here?" Mark asked.

"Perhaps I had better be a little more candid with you," Mary sighed. "There is a scheme on
foot between my brother and some of the gang to gain possession of certain papers that belonged
to Sir Charles Darryll. There are keys, too, which Mrs. Richford is known to possess. I don't
quite know what the scheme is."

"Anyway I can give a pretty good guess," Mark said. "My father has been very ill and he sent
for me. We have not been very good friends, my father and I, because I turned my back on the
city for the sake of art. But all that is past now, and we have become reunited. My father
seems to know a great deal about Sir Charles's affairs--something about a ruby mine or something
of that kind. Anyway, I'm to get my information from Mr. Fleming, who is my father's solicitor.
But I am afraid that I am interrupting you."

"There is not much more to tell," Mary went on. "Colonel Berrington was induced to write a
letter to Mrs. Richford asking her to come here and see my brother."

"Berrington must have been mad to think of such a thing!"

"No, he did it at my instigation. I managed to communicate with him and assure him that no
harm should come of it. No harm would have come of it if I had only kept my head and done the
right thing. But the fact remains that Mrs. Richford is in there; she has those diamonds in
her pocket and the thieves are on the track. It seems to me----"

Mary did not finish the sentence, for Mark held out a hand and pulled her behind a bush, just
in time, as two other people came up the path. There was no occasion to tell either of the
watchers that here were the people of whom they were talking. The man Reggie and the woman
Cora were standing on the doorstep whispering together. It was quite a still night and the
other two behind the bushes could hear every word that was said.

"So far, so good," the man was saying. "We've got here and we are pretty sure that our bird
is securely caged, but what next?"

"Wait our chance," the woman said with a certain fierce indrawing of her breath. "We can appear
to have come here by accident, for instructions, anything. So long as Sartoris does not know
about those stones we are safe. When we get them----"

"When we get them, Richford can whistle for his share of the money," the man said coolly. "By
this time to-morrow we shall be in possession of more money than we have ever had before. I
don't like this present business, it's far too dangerous. Unless we go so far as to murder
that fellow Berrington and get him out of the way----"

"Don't," the woman said with a shudder. "I hate that kind of work. Anything clever or cunning,
anything requiring audacity, I can do with. But violence!"

She shuddered again, and the man laughed softly as if greatly pleased with some idea of his.

"There is going to be no more violence or anything else," he said. "This game has got far too
dangerous. We'll change those stones into money and then we'll quietly vanish and leave our
good friend Sartoris to his own devices. What do you say to that?"

"Amen, with all my heart," the girl said. "The sooner the better. But don't forget that we
have not yet settled on a plan of action."

"Leave it to chance," the man replied. "We have all the knowledge that is necessary to the
success of our scheme, and the girl knows nothing. She will not stay very long, it is getting
late already. Suppose we pretend that we have a cab waiting to take us back to town, and suppose
that we offer to give her a lift. Then that scent of yours----" The woman called Cora laughed
and clapped her hands gleefully. It was an idea after her own heart. She patted her companion
affectionately on the shoulder.

"Come along, then," she said. "Open the door with your latchkey. It's getting cold and I am
longing for something to eat. This kind of thing makes me hungry."

The door opened and then closed again softly, and the conspirators had vanished. With a gesture
of anger Mark strode towards the house, Mary following.

"What on earth are you going to do?" she said anxiously. "Will you spoil everything by your
impatience? If you only realized the dangers that lie hidden yonder!"

Mark paused abruptly and bit his lip. The trouble was not over yet.

CHAPTER XXX

Meanwhile, absolutely unconscious of the dangers that were rapidly closing around her, Beatrice
took her way to Wandsworth. Richford had been ingenious enough to see that Beatrice would go
down by rail, as she had very little money to spare, so that if they desired it, the two conspirators
could have got there before her. But there was no occasion for that, seeing that Beatrice had
the treasure in her pocket and Sartoris was none the wiser.

Richford would have gone far at that moment to spite Sartoris. He had tried to play the latter
false over the scheme that they had in hand together, and Sartoris had found him out. The latter
made it a rule never to trust anybody, and he had been suspicious of Richford from the first.
He had known exactly how Richford's affairs stood, he had seen that a sudden blow dealt at
him now would pull the whole structure down and ruin it for ever. And without the smallest
feeling in the matter, Sartoris had done this thing. But for him Richford could have pulled
around again, as Sartoris had been aware.

But Sartoris had had enough of his ally and in this way he got rid of him altogether. Richford
dared not show his face again; he would have to leave the country and never return. Sartoris
chuckled to himself as he thought of this.

He was on extremely good terms with himself when Beatrice called. She had not given the letter
from Berrington very much consideration, though she was a little surprised at the address.
Doubtless the matter had something to do with her father, the girl thought. The mystery of
that strange disappearance was getting on her nerves sadly.

Rather timidly the girl knocked at the door of the gloomy looking house, which was opened after
a pause by a little man in an invalid chair. Beatrice looked at him in surprise. She gained
some courage from a quick glance at the hall with its electric lights and fine pictures and
the magnificent flowers in pots and vases everywhere. It seemed to Beatrice that only a woman
could be responsible for this good taste, and she took heart accordingly. No desperate characters
could occupy a house like this, she told herself, and in any case a helpless little man in
a chair could not prove a formidable antagonist.

"I hope I have not made any mistake," she said. "If this is 100, Audley Place----"

"This is 100, Audley Place, Mrs. Richford," the little man said. "Will you be so good as to
come this way and shut the door? I have been expecting you."

"It was a letter that I received from my friend, Colonel Berrington," Beatrice said. "He asked
me to call and see him here. I hope he is not ill."

"I have not noticed any signs of illness," Sartoris said drily. "I have no doubt that the Colonel
had very good reasons for asking you to come here, in fact he did so to oblige me. The Colonel
is out at present. He is staying with me, being fond of the air of the place. I dare say he
will be back before you go."

Beatrice nodded in bewildered fashion. In some vague way it seemed to her that her host was
making fun of her, there was just a faint suggestion of mockery in his tones. Was there any
plot against her on foot, Beatrice wondered. But nobody could possibly know of the diamonds
in her pocket; besides, she had received the letter before she had thought of removing those
diamonds from the custody of the hotel people. Again, as to the genuineness of Berrington's
letter she did not entertain the shadow of a doubt. Nobody, not even an expert, could succeed
in making a successful forgery of the dashing hand-writing of Berrington.

"If you will come this way," Sartoris said quietly, "we shall be more comfortable. As the evening
is by no means warm you will perhaps not object to the temperature of my room. If you are fond
of flowers, you may admire it."

A little cry of admiration broke from Beatrice at the sight of the conservatory room. She had
forgotten all her fears for the moment. Gradually she let the atmosphere of the place steal
over her. She found that she was replying to a lot of searching questions as to her past and
the past of her father, Sir Charles. No, she had no papers, nor did she know where to find
those keys. She wondered what this man was driving at.

"I knew your father very well at one time," he said. "I saw a great deal of him in India. In
fact he and I were in more than one expedition together."

"What year was that?" Beatrice asked quite innocently.

To her surprise Sartoris gave signs of irritation and anger. He turned it off a moment later
by an allusion to neuralgia, but Beatrice was not quite satisfied. Why did this man want the
key of a certain desk, and why did he require a bundle of papers in a blue envelope therefrom?
Beatrice resolved to be on her guard.

"I will do what I can for you," she said. "If you can come and see me."

"I am afraid that is impossible," said Sartoris, who had lapsed into his bland manner once
more. "I am sensitive of people's remarks and all that kind of thing. I dare say you will think
that I am morbidly self-conscious, but then I have not always been a cripple. I was as straight
as yourself once. Fancy a little crooked figure like me in a hansom cab!"

Beatrice started violently. The words had recalled a painful time to her. She recollected now
with vivid force that on the night of Sir Charles's disappearance a little crooked man in a
hansom cab had been the directing party in the outrage.

The girl's instinct had led her swiftly to the truth. She felt, as sure as if she had been
told, that this man before her was at the bottom of this business. She knew that she stood
face to face with the man who had stolen the body of Sir Charles Darryll. For a moment Beatrice
fought hard with the feeling that she was going to faint. Her eyes dilated and she looked across
at the man opposite. He was lying back in his chair feasting his eyes upon her beauty, so that
the subtle change in the girl's face was not lost upon him.

"I seem to have alarmed you about something," he said. "What was it? Surely the spectacle of
a crooked little man like me in a hansom cab is not so dreadful as all that. And yet those
words must have touched upon a chord somewhere."

"It--it recalled my father to me," Beatrice stammered. "The police found certain things out.
They discovered the night my father disappeared that outside the hotel was a black hansom cab
with a man inside who was a cripple."

"You don't mean to say that!" Sartoris cried.

In his turn he had almost betrayed himself. He could have cursed himself aloud now. As it was,
he forced an unsteady smile to his lips.

"I mean to say that the police are very clever at that kind of thing," he went on. "But surely
you would not possibly identify me or my remark with the monster in question! There are a great
many people in this big London of ours who would answer to that description. Now tell me, did
the police find anything more out?"

The question was eager, despite the fact that Sartoris imparted a laugh into it. But Beatrice
was not to be drawn any further. She felt absolutely certain of the fact that she was talking
to the real culprit who was picking her brain so that he could get to the bottom of what the
police had discovered, with an eye to the future.

"Really, I don't know," the girl said coldly. "That is all that I overheard. The police I find
are very close over these matters, and in any case they do not usually choose a woman as their
confidant. You had better ask Colonel Berrington."

It was an unfortunate remark in more senses than one. Beatrice did not quite realize how quick
and clever was the man to whom she was talking. If his instinct had told him much his cleverness
told him more. Berrington was in the confidence of the police. And Sartoris had imagined that
the soldier was working out the problem on his own behalf. He had counted, too, on Berrington's
affection for Mary to do as little harm as possible.

"I'll ask the Colonel," he said between his teeth. "Oh, yes, I will certainly do that. What
are you looking at so closely?"

Beatrice had risen to her feet in her eagerness. She pointed to two cabinet photographs.

"Those people," she stammered. "Why, I know them. They call themselves Countess de la Moray
and General Gastang. They were staying at the Royal Palace Hotel the night of the tragedy.
They pretended to know me and all about me. I am quite sure that they are actors in disguise.
But seeing that you know them----"

Sartoris turned away his face for a moment, so that Beatrice should not see its evil expression.
He cursed himself for his inane folly. But he was quick to rise to the situation.

"A very strange thing," he said. "As a matter of fact, I don't know those people. But some
friends of mine in Paris were their victims some little time ago, and they were anxious that
the police here should be warned, as the precious pair had fled to England. Perhaps they were
proud of this guise, perhaps their vanity impelled them, but they had those photographs taken
and my friends got copies and sent them to me. They only arrived to-day or they would not be
here. They will go to Scotland Yard in the morning."

Beatrice inclined her head coldly. She knew the whole thing was a quick and ready lie, and
she could not for the life of her pretend to believe it. She buttoned her jacket about her
and stood up.

"I will not detain you any longer," she said. "If I can find what you desire I will let you
know. I can find my own way to the door."

"Wait till Berrington returns," Sartoris urged. "He will not be long. He is not in the house
yet, but he will be sorry he has missed you."

Beatrice stood before the glass putting her hat on straight. She could see over her shoulder
in the direction of the door, and there in the gloom with his finger to his lips stood Berrington.
There was just a suggestion of surprise in his eyes, surprise and annoyance, but the look which
he passed the girl was a command to keep herself well in hand. The mere fact that help was
so near gave her a new courage. She smiled as she turned to Sartoris.

"Well, I am afraid that I must be going," she said. "Please tell the Colonel when he comes
in that I am sorry to have missed him. He will understand that."

There was the faint click of a key in the front door, and two people came noisily into the
room. They were a young and handsome man and an equally young and handsome woman, well dressed,
smartly groomed, and well bred. And yet, though they were strangers to Beatrice, they were
at the same time curiously familiar. The girl was trying to recall where she had seen them
both before.

"We are rather late," the man said with a wink at Sartoris. "Business detained us. Yes, we
are also rather hungry, having had no dinner to speak of. Hullo, I say, look here. Do you mean
to say that you are fool enough to keep our photographs in our very last disguise?"

Something like an oath broke from Sartoris as he glanced at Beatrice. The girl could not control
herself for the moment; she could not hide from Sartoris and the others that she knew now that
she was in the presence of Countess de la Moray and General Gastang in their proper person.

"Those are not your photographs at all," Sartoris croaked. "As a matter of fact I only got
them from Paris to-day. If you will----"

The speaker paused as Beatrice was stepping towards the door. All of them realised that she
knew everything. Sartoris made a sign and the man Reggie stood between Beatrice and the door.

CHAPTER XXXI

Somebody was knocking quietly at the door, and Sartoris had made no effort to move. That was
the situation in which we left Sartoris and Berrington before Beatrice came. Nobody could have
failed to notice that he was greatly disturbed and agitated. With a feeling that he was going
to learn something, Berrington turned as if to leave the room.

"I am going to save you the trouble of going," he said.

Sartoris clasped his hands to his head. He was still throbbing and aching all over from the
ill effect of the treatment accorded him by the Burmese visitors. Berrington had come down
in the nick of time and saved him from a terrible fate, but Sartoris was not feeling in the
least grateful. To a certain extent he was between the devil and the deep sea. Desperately
as he was situated now, he could not afford to dismiss Berrington altogether. To do that would
be to bring the authorities down upon him in double quick time. True, Berrington, out of his
deep affection for Mary, might give him as much rope as possible. And again, Sartoris did not
quite know how far Berrington was posted as to the recent course of events. True, Berrington
suspected him of knowing something of the disappearance of the body of Sir Charles, but Sartoris
did not see that he could prove anything.

But he did not want Berrington to go just yet, and he was still more anxious that the Colonel
should not know who was knocking at the door. Unless his calculations were very wide of the
mark, it was Beatrice Richford who was seeking admission. Sartoris would have given much to
prevent those two meeting.

He smiled, though he was beside himself, almost, with passion. He seemed to have become very
weak and impotent all at once. He would have to simulate an emotion that he did not possess.
Once more there came the timid knock at the door.

"Berrington," he said desperately. "Do you believe that there is any good in me?"

The question was asked in almost a pleading voice. But Berrington was not in the least moved.
He knew perfectly well what he had to deal with. Again, the knock at the door.

"I should say not a fragment," Berrington said critically. "I should say that you are utterly
bad to the core. I have just saved you from a terrible fate which really ought to be a source
of the greatest possible regret to me, but you are not in the least grateful. When that knock
came for the first time, you looked at me with murder in your eyes. I am in your way now, I
am possibly on the verge of an important discovery. If you could kill me with one look and
destroy my body with another you would do it without hesitation. And that is the reason, my
good friend, why I am going to the door."

"Don't," Sartoris implored. He had become mild and pleading. "You are quite wrong--Berrington;
I once heard you say that there was good in everybody."

"Generally," Berrington admitted. "But you are an exception that proves the rule."

"Indeed I am not. There is good in me. I tell you and I am going to do a kind and disinterested
action to-night. I swear that if you interfere you will be the cause of great unhappiness in
a certain household in which I am interested. I implore you not to let your idle curiosity
bring about this thing. I appeal to you as a gentleman."

In spite of himself Berrington was touched. He had never regarded Sartoris as anything of an
actor, and he seemed to be in deadly earnest now. Was it just possible that the man had it
in him to do a kindly thing? If so it seemed a pity to thwart him. Berrington looked fairly
and squarely into the eyes of the speaker, but they did not waver in the least. The expression
of Sartoris's face was one of hopelessness, not free altogether from contempt.

"I can't say any more," he said. "Open the door by all means, and spoil everything. It is in
your hands to do so and curse your own vulgar curiosity afterwards. Call me mad if you like,
but I had planned to do a kind thing to-night."

"So that you may benefit from it in the end?" Berrington suggested.

"Well, put it that way if you like," Sartoris said with fine indifference. "But it does not
matter. You can sit down again. The knocker has gone, evidently."

But the door sounded again. Sartoris turned aside with a sigh. Despite his suspicions, Berrington
felt that his conscience was troubling him. He would never forgive himself if he prevented
a kind action being done to one who cruelly needed it. He rose and crossed the room.

"Let it be as you like," he said. "I will promise not to interfere. As soon as you have finished
I should like to have a few words with you here. After that I shall feel free to depart."

Sartoris nodded, but the triumph that filled him found no expression on his face. Berrington
was no better than a fool, after all; a few fair words had disarmed him. Sartoris would gain
all he wanted and when that was done he would take good care that Berrington did not leave
the house. The man was by no means at the end of his cunning resources yet. He moved his chair
in the direction of the hall.

"You have made a very wise decision," he said. "And I thank you for having some confidence
in me. Will you wait for me in the dining-room?"

Berrington intimated that he would go into the dining-room and smoke a cigar. He was free to
depart now, but he was going to do nothing of the kind. Sartoris was likely to be engaged for
some time, and meanwhile Berrington was able to make investigations. He was desirous of finding
out the secret of the dining-room, the way in which things were changed there, and the like.
Of course, it had all been done by human agency, and what one man can invent another can find
out. There was not likely to be a more favourable opportunity.

Berrington stepped into the dining-room and closed the door behind him. But he closed it with
his hand hard on the turned lock so that it should sound as if it had banged to, whereas, directly
the handle was released it would fall open a little way. Berrington was not going to leave
anything to chance, and he had no hesitation in playing the spy.

From where he stood he could hear the wheels of Sartoris's chair rattling over the parquet
flooring of the hall, he heard the front door open, and the timid voice of a girl speaking.
It did not sound like the voice of anybody with evil intent, and just for an instant it occurred
to Berrington that perhaps his suspicions had been misplaced.

But only for an instant, until the voice spoke again. He had no difficulty now in recognising
the voice as that of Beatrice Richford. Berrington was a little staggered, for he had not expected
this. He had totally forgotten the letter, but it came flashing back to his mind now, and Mary's
promise that no harm should come of it.

And yet Mary had either overestimated her powers or placed too low a value on the cunning of
her brother. At any rate, there could be no doubt of the fact that the letter had been delivered,
and that Beatrice was here in reply to it.

"Very good," Berrington said between his teeth. "I will see that no harm comes of this thing.
Beatrice has been brought here to be pumped as to her father's papers and the like. Still,
thanks to my little adventure to-night I have a pretty good idea what these scoundrels are
after. I'll just go as far as the study and see that it is all right."

Berrington slipped off his boots and crept along the hall. So far as he could see all was quiet.
There was a double door to the study, so that Berrington could not hear much, but the inner
door had not been closed. It was only necessary to swing back the baize door to hear all that
was taking place in the study.

But Berrington decided that he would leave that for the present. It mattered very little what
Sartoris said to Beatrice, for the gist of the conversation could easily be gathered from the
girl on some future occasion. But opportunities for examining that strange dining-room did
not offer themselves at every hour, and Berrington made up his mind to make the best of it.
He pulled on his boots again, and set to work.

For some time there was nothing to reward his search. The carpet appeared to be intact, the
table a solid structure of mahogany. And yet there must be some means of moving that table
up and down, much in the same way as the thing used to be done in the case of a certain French
king and the lady of his affections.

But there was absolutely nothing here to show that anything of the kind had been done. Berrington
removed the flowers and the table cloth and looked underneath. So far without success. He rapped
in a reflective way on the solid legs and they gave back a clear ringing sound. With a smile
of satisfaction, Berrington took a pocket knife from his vest.

Then he bent down and slightly scraped one of the solid-looking legs. The edge of the knife
turned up and a thin strip of bright gold showed beneath the vanish. The first discovery had
been made. The legs of the table were of hollow metal.

There was something to go on with at any rate. Dining tables do not have legs made of hollow
metal for nothing. Berrington tried to push the table aside, so that he could tilt it up and
see the base of the legs, but the structure refused to budge an inch. Here was discovery number
two. The table was bolted solidly into the floor.

"We are getting on," Berrington whispered to himself. "It seems to me that I need not worry
myself any further about the table itself, seeing that, so to speak, it is attached to the
freehold. It is the floor that I have to look to."

But the floor appeared to be quite intact. There were no seams along the Turkey carpet. Berrington
turned the carpet back as far as it would go, but nothing suspicious presented itself to his
searching eye. As he dropped the carpet back his foot touched the curb of the fireplace, and
one end slid along. It seemed a curious thing that one end of the old oak curb should work
on a pivot, but so it did, and Berrington pushed it as far as it would go. An instant later
and he jumped nimbly into the fireplace.

It was just as well he did so, for the whole floor was slowly fading away, just up to the edge
of the carpet, leaving the brown boards around intact. By accident more than anything else
Berrington had stumbled on the secret. The pressure of a foot on the curb had set some hidden
lever in motion; the clever machinery was doing the rest.

