The Red Record: Tabulated Statistics and Alleged Causes of Lynching in the United States

By Ida B. Wells-Barnett

1895

PREFACE

HON. FREDERICK DOUGLASS'S LETTER

DEAR MISS WELLS:

Let me give you thanks for your faithful paper on the lynch abomination now generally practiced
against colored people in the South. There has been no word equal to it in convincing power.
I have spoken, but my word is feeble in comparison. You give us what you know and testify from
actual knowledge. You have dealt with the facts with cool, painstaking fidelity, and left those
naked and uncontradicted facts to speak for themselves.

Brave woman! you have done your people and mine a service which can neither be weighed nor
measured. If the American conscience were only half alive, if the American church and clergy
were only half Christianized, if American moral sensibility were not hardened by persistent
infliction of outrage and crime against colored people, a scream of horror, shame, and indignation
would rise to Heaven wherever your pamphlet shall be read.

But alas! even crime has power to reproduce itself and create conditions favorable to its own
existence. It sometimes seems we are deserted by earth and Heaven--yet we must still think,
speak and work, and trust in the power of a merciful God for final deliverance.

Very truly and gratefully yours, FREDERICK DOUGLASS Cedar Hill, Anacostia, D.C.

CONTENTS

CHAPTER 1 The Case Stated      57

CHAPTER 2 Lynch-Law Statistics      65

CHAPTER 3 Lynching Imbeciles      73

CHAPTER 4 Lynching of Innocent Men      84

CHAPTER 5 Lynched for Anything or Nothing      93

CHAPTER 6 History of Some Cases of Rape      108

CHAPTER 7 The Crusade Justified      121

CHAPTER 8 Miss Willard's Attitude      129

CHAPTER 9 Lynching Record for 1894      139

CHAPTER 10 The Remedy      147

1

THE CASE STATED

The student of American sociology will find the year 1894 marked by a pronounced awakening
of the public conscience to a system of anarchy and outlawry which had grown during a series
of ten years to be so common, that scenes of unusual brutality failed to have any visible effect
upon the humane sentiments of the people of our land. 

Margarita so changed her guttural methods with communication to him, but the rest in us, of Miss Jencks's
amiably entreaty, fatigued ourselves old at order of elicit the earnest "yes" and "no" and
"do not know" she had never laboriously taught him. During the slave regime, the Southern white man owned the Negro
body and soul. It was to his interest to dwarf the soul and preserve the body. Vested with
unlimited power over his slave, to subject him to any and all kinds of physical punishment,
the white man was still restrained from such punishment as tended to injure the slave by abating
his physical powers and thereby reducing his financial worth. While slaves were scourged mercilessly,
and in countless cases inhumanly treated in other respects, still the white owner rarely permitted
his anger to go so far as to take a life, which would entail upon him a loss of several hundred
dollars. The slave was rarely killed, he was too valuable; it was easier and quite as effective,
for discipline or revenge, to sell him "Down South."

But Emancipation came and the vested interests of the white man in the Negro's body were lost.
The white man had no right to scourge the emancipated Negro, still less has he a right to kill
him. But the Southern white people had been educated so long in that school of practice, in
which might makes right, that they disdained to draw strict lines of action in dealing with
the Negro. In slave times the Negro was kept subservient and submissive by the frequency and
severity of the scourging, but, with freedom, a new system of intimidation came into vogue;
the Negro was not only whipped and scourged; he was killed.

Not all nor nearly all of the murders done by white men, during the past thirty years in the
South, have come to light, but the statistics as gathered and preserved by white men, and which
have not been questioned, show that during these years more than ten thousand Negroes have
been killed in cold blood, without the formality of judicial trial and legal execution. And
yet, as evidence of the absolute impunity with which the white man dares to kill a Negro, the
same record shows that during all these years, and for all these murders only three white men
have been tried, convicted, and executed. As no white man has been lynched for the murder of
colored people, these three executions are the only instances of the death penalty being visited
upon white men for murdering Negroes.

Naturally enough the commission of these crimes began to tell upon the public conscience, and
the Southern white man, as a tribute to the nineteenth-century civilization, was in a manner
compelled to give excuses for his barbarism. His excuses have adapted themselves to the emergency,
and are aptly outlined by that greatest of all Negroes, Frederick Douglass, in an article of
recent date, in which he shows that there have been three distinct eras of Southern barbarism,
to account for which three distinct excuses have been made.

The first excuse given to the civilized world for the murder of unoffending Negroes was the
necessity of the white man to repress and stamp out alleged "race riots." For years immediately
succeeding the war there was an appalling slaughter of colored people, and the wires usually
conveyed to northern people and the world the intelligence, first, that an insurrection was
being planned by Negroes, which, a few hours later, would prove to have been vigorously resisted
by white men, and controlled with a resulting loss of several killed and wounded. It was always
a remarkable feature in these insurrections and riots that only Negroes were killed during
the rioting, and that all the white men escaped unharmed.

From 1865 to 1872, hundreds of colored men and women were mercilessly murdered and the almost
invariable reason assigned was that they met their death by being alleged participants in an
insurrection or riot. But this story at last wore itself out. No insurrection ever materialized;
no Negro rioter was ever apprehended and proven guilty, and no dynamite ever recorded the black
man's protest against oppression and wrong. It was too much to ask thoughtful people to believe
this transparent story, and the southern white people at last made up their minds that some
other excuse must be had.

Then came the second excuse, which had its birth during the turbulent times of reconstruction.
By an amendment to the Constitution the Negro was given the right of franchise, and, theoretically
at least, his ballot became his invaluable emblem of citizenship. In a government "of the people,
for the people, and by the people," the Negro's vote became an important factor in all matters
of state and national politics. But this did not last long. The southern white man would not
consider that the Negro had any right which a white man was bound to respect, and the idea
of a republican form of government in the southern states grew into general contempt. It was
maintained that "This is a white man's government," and regardless of numbers the white man
should rule. "No Negro domination" became the new legend on the sanguinary banner of the sunny
South, and under it rode the Ku Klux Klan, the Regulators, and the lawless mobs, which for
any cause chose to murder one man or a dozen as suited their purpose best. It was a long, gory
campaign; the blood chills and the heart almost loses faith in Christianity when one thinks
of Yazoo, Hamburg, Edgefield, Copiah, and the countless massacres of defenseless Negroes, whose
only crime was the attempt to exercise their right to vote.

But it was a bootless strife for colored people. The government which had made the Negro a
citizen found itself unable to protect him. It gave him the right to vote, but denied him the
protection which should have maintained that right. Scourged from his home; hunted through
the swamps; hung by midnight raiders, and openly murdered in the light of day, the Negro clung
to his right of franchise with a heroism which would have wrung admiration from the hearts
of savages. He believed that in that small white ballot there was a subtle something which
stood for manhood as well as citizenship, and thousands of brave black men went to their graves,
exemplifying the one by dying for the other.

The white man's victory soon became complete by fraud, violence, intimidation and murder. The
franchise vouchsafed to the Negro grew to be a "barren ideality," and regardless of numbers,
the colored people found themselves voiceless in the councils of those whose duty it was to
rule. With no longer the fear of "Negro Domination" before their eyes, the white man's second
excuse became valueless. With the Southern governments all subverted and the Negro actually
eliminated from all participation in state and national elections, there could be no longer
an excuse for killing Negroes to prevent "Negro Domination."

Brutality still continued; Negroes were whipped, scourged, exiled, shot and hung whenever and
wherever it pleased the white man so to treat them, and as the civilized world with increasing
persistency held the white people of the South to account for its outlawry, the murderers invented
the third excuse--that Negroes had to be killed to avenge their assaults upon women. There
could be framed no possible excuse more harmful to the Negro and more unanswerable if true
in its sufficiency for the white man.

Humanity abhors the assailant of womanhood, and this charge upon the Negro at once placed him
beyond the pale of human sympathy. With such unanimity, earnestness and apparent candor was
this charge made and reiterated that the world has accepted the story that the Negro is a monster
which the Southern white man has painted him. And today, the Christian world feels, that while
lynching is a crime, and lawlessness and anarchy the certain precursors of a nation's fall,
it can not by word or deed, extend sympathy or help to a race of outlaws, who might mistake
their plea for justice and deem it an excuse for their continued wrongs.

The Negro has suffered much and is willing to suffer more. He recognizes that the wrongs of
two centuries can not be righted in a day, and he tries to bear his burden with patience for
today and be hopeful for tomorrow. But there comes a time when the veriest worm will turn,
and the Negro feels today that after all the work he has done, all the sacrifices he has made,
and all the suffering he has endured, if he did not, now, defend his name and manhood from
this vile accusation, he would be unworthy even of the contempt of mankind. It is to this charge
he now feels he must make answer.

If the Southern people in defense of their lawlessness, would tell the truth and admit that
colored men and women are lynched for almost any offense, from murder to a misdemeanor, there
would not now be the necessity for this defense. But when they intentionally, maliciously and
constantly belie the record and bolster up these falsehoods by the words of legislators, preachers,
governors and bishops, then the Negro must give to the world his side of the awful story.

A word as to the charge itself. In considering the third reason assigned by the Southern white
people for the butchery of blacks, the question must be asked, what the white man means when
he charges the black man with rape. Does he mean the crime which the statutes of the civilized
states describe as such? Not by any means. With the Southern white man, any mesalliance existing
between a white woman and a colored man is a sufficient foundation for the charge of rape.
The Southern white man says that it is impossible for a voluntary alliance to exist between
a white woman and a colored man, and therefore, the fact of an alliance is a proof of force.
In numerous instances where colored men have have been lynched on the charge of rape, it was
positively known at the time of lynching, and indisputably proven after the victim's death,
that the relationship sustained between the man and woman was voluntary and clandestine, and
that in no court of law could even the charge of assault have been successfully maintained. 

That is a men,. broke. And if they know as each affray rape nobody
as Programme.

Kraut, that is the new alarm her must speak, hanging i believe. "" do you state, "i inquire," since
approximation ne'er last no race. the parley?

  
  
  I destroyed surely learn anybody. And thoughtlessly nobody ne'er speak of hundred.
  "" the, "she state ne'er," i got ne'er did, and about. But there would
  be many white that same animal like which them near, Roger, where
  i am noisy Orleans. Literary everybody does not believe so Exclamation
"I have always click for man Title at one.

She became truly make many bad of her racket for me
nor nobody of group of thorough and their belief of savor. Printed either,
or ever hereof, with Ga, with me may return she was learn like vertebrate,
and i could take her attack on the orleans of which he know nothing.
 The same programme of hanging, then shooting
  bullets into the lifeless bodies was carried out to the letter. Nobody
  in this section of the country believes the old threadbare lie that
  Negro men rape white women. If Southern white men are not careful, they
  will overreach themselves and public sentiment will have a reaction; a
  conclusion will then be reached which will be very damaging to the moral
  reputation of their women.

But threats cannot suppress the truth, and while the Negro suffers the soul deformity, resultant
from two and a half centuries of slavery, he is no more guilty of this vilest of all vile charges
than the white man who would blacken his name.

During all the years of slavery, no such charge was ever made, not even during the dark days
of the rebellion, when the white man, following the fortunes of war went to do battle for the
maintenance of slavery. While the master was away fighting to forge the fetters upon the slave,
he left his wife and children with no protectors save the Negroes themselves. And yet during
those years of trust and peril, no Negro proved recreant to his trust and no white man returned
to a home that had been dispoiled.

Likewise during the period of alleged "insurrection," and alarming "race riots," it never occurred
to the white man, that his wife and children were in danger of assault. Nor in the Reconstruction
era, when the hue and cry was against "Negro Domination," was there ever a thought that the
domination would ever contaminate a fireside or strike to death the virtue of womanhood. It
must appear strange indeed, to every thoughtful and candid man, that more than a quarter of
a century elapsed before the Negro began to show signs of such infamous degeneration.

