Here, however, the supernatural appearances are never explained away, and the ghostly agencies
are introduced in the spirit of serious, if somewhat melodramatic, romance. Marryat's personal
experience enabled him, with little research, to produce a life-like picture of old Dutch seamanship,
and his powers in racy narrative have transformed the Vanderdecken legend into a stirring tale
of terror. The plot cannot be called original, but it is more carefully worked out and, from
the nature of the material at hand, more effective than most of Marryat's own. He has put life
into it, moreover, by the creation of some genuine characters, designed for nobler ends than
to move the machinery.

Amine, indeed, as Mr Hannay points out, "is by far his nearest approach to an acceptable heroine."
Her romantic and curiously superstitious disposition is admirably restrained by strength of
will and true courage. The scenes of the Inquisition by which she meets her death are forcibly
described. Philip Vanderdecken is a very respectable hero; daring, impetuous, and moody, without
being too improbably capable. The hand of destiny lends him a dignity of which he is by no
means unworthy. Krantz, the faithful friend, belongs to a familiar type, but the one-eyed pilot
is quite sufficiently weird for the part he has to play. For the rest we have the usual exciting
adventures by sea and land; the usual "humours," in this case certainly not overdone. The miser
Dr Poots; the bulky Kloots, his bear, and his supercargo; Barentz and his crazy lady-love the
Vrow Katerina; and the little Portuguese Commandant provide the reader with a variety of good-natured
entertainment. It was an act of doubtful wisdom, perhaps, to introduce a second group of spirits
from the Hartz mountains, but the story of the weir-wolves is told simply, without any straining
after effect.

The general success, however, is marred by certain obvious failures in detail. The attempt
to produce an historic flavour by making the characters, during their calmer moments, talk
in would-be old English is more amusing than culpable; but the author's philosophy of the unseen,
as expounded by Amine or Krantz, is both weak and tiresome, and his religious discourses, coloured
by prejudice against the Romanists, are conventional and unconvincing. The closing scene savours
of the Sunday-school.

But these faults are not obtrusive, and the novel as a whole must take a high place among its
author's second-best.

The Phantom Ship appeared in The New Monthly Magazine, 1838, 1839. It is here reprinted from
the first edition, in three volumes. Henry Colburn, 1839.

R.B.J.

Chapter I

About the middle of the seventeenth century, in the outskirts of the small but fortified town
of Terneuse, situated on the right bank of the Scheldt, and nearly opposite to the island of
Walcheren, there was to be seen, in advance of a few other even more humble tenements, a small
but neat cottage, built according to the prevailing taste of the time. The outside front had,
some years back, been painted of a deep orange, the windows and shutters of a vivid green.
To about three feet above the surface of the earth, it was faced alternately with blue and
white tiles. A small garden, of about two rods of our measure of land, surrounded the edifice;
and this little plot was flanked by a low hedge of privet, and encircled by a moat full of
water, too wide to be leaped with ease. Over that part of the moat which was in front of the
cottage door, was a small and narrow bridge, with ornamented iron hand-rails, for the security
of the passenger. But the colours, originally so bright, with which the cottage had been decorated,
had now faded; symptoms of rapid decay were evident in the window-sills, the door-jambs, and
other wooden parts of the tenement, and many of the white and blue tiles had fallen down, and
had not been replaced. That much care had once been bestowed upon this little tenement, was
as evident as that latterly it had been equally neglected.

The inside of the cottage, both on the basement and the floor above, was divided into two larger
rooms in front, and two smaller behind; the rooms in front could only be called large in comparison
with the other two, as they were little more than twelve feet square, with but one window to
each. The upper floor was, as usual, appropriated to the bedrooms; on the lower, the two smaller
rooms were now used only as a wash-house and a lumber-room; while one of the larger was fitted
up as a kitchen, and furnished with dressers, on which the metal utensils for cookery shone
clean and polished as silver. The room itself was scrupulously neat; but the furniture, as
well as the utensils, were scanty. The boards of the floor were of a pure white, and so clean
that you might have laid anything down without fear of soiling it. A strong deal table, two
wooden-seated chairs, and a small easy couch, which had been removed from one of the bedrooms
upstairs, were all the movables which this room contained. The other front room had been fitted
up as a parlour; but what might be the style of its furniture was now unknown, for no eye had
beheld the contents of that room for nearly seventeen years, during which it had been hermetically
sealed, even to the inmates of the cottage.

The kitchen, which we have described, was occupied by two persons. One was a woman, apparently
about forty years of age, but worn down by pain and suffering. She had evidently once possessed
much beauty: there were still the regular outlines, the noble forehead, and the large dark
eye; but there was a tenuity in her features, a wasted appearance, such as to render the flesh
transparent; her brow, when she mused, would sink into deep wrinkles, premature though they
were; and the occasional flashing of her eyes strongly impressed you with the idea of insanity.
There appeared to be some deep-seated, irremovable, hopeless cause of anguish, never for one
moment permitted to be absent from her memory: a chronic oppression, fixed and graven there,
only to be removed by death. She was dressed in the widow's coif of the time; but although
clean and neat, her garments were faded from long wear. She was seated upon the small couch
which we have mentioned, evidently brought down as a relief to her, in her declining state.

On the deal table in the centre of the room sat the other person, a stout, fair-headed, florid
youth of nineteen or twenty years old. His features were handsome and bold, and his frame powerful
to excess; his eye denoted courage and determination, and as he carelessly swung his legs,
and whistled an air in an emphatic manner, it was impossible not to form the idea that he was
a daring, adventurous, and reckless character.

"Do not go to sea, Philip; oh, promise me that, my dear, dear child," said the female, clasping
her hands.

"And why not go to sea, mother?" replied Philip; "what's the use of my staying here to starve?--for,
by Heaven! it's little better. I must do something for myself and for you. And what else can
I do? My uncle Van Brennen has offered to take me with him, and will give me good wages. Then
I shall live happily on board, and my earnings will be sufficient for your support at home."

"Philip--Philip, hear me. I shall die if you leave me. Whom have I in the world but you? O
my child, as you love me, and I know you do love me, Philip, don't leave me; but if you will,
at all events do not go to sea."

Philip gave no immediate reply; he whistled for a few seconds, while his mother wept.

"Is it," said he at last, "because my father was drowned at sea, that you beg so hard, mother?"

"Oh, no--no!" exclaimed the sobbing woman. "Would to God--"

"Would to God what, mother?"

"Nothing--nothing. Be merciful--be merciful, O God!" replied the mother, sliding from her seat
on the couch, and kneeling by the side of it, in which attitude she remained for some time
in fervent prayer.

At last she resumed her seat, and her face wore an aspect of more composure.

Philip, who, during this, had remained silent and thoughtful, again addressed his mother.

"Look ye, mother. You ask me to stay on shore with you, and starve,--rather hard conditions:--now
hear what I have to say. That room opposite has been shut up ever since I can remember--why,
you will never tell me; but once I heard you say, when we were without bread, and with no prospect
of my uncle's return--you were then half frantic, mother, as you know you sometimes are--"

"Well, Philip, what did you hear me say?" enquired his mother with tremulous anxiety.

"You said, mother, that there was money in that room which would save us; and then you screamed
and raved, and said that you preferred death. Now, mother, what is there in that chamber, and
why has it been so long shut up? Either I know that, or I go to sea."

At the commencement of this address of Philip, his mother appeared to be transfixed, and motionless
as a statue; gradually her lips separated, and her eyes glared; she seemed to have lost the
power of reply; she put her hand to her right side, as if to compress it, then both her hands,
as if to relieve herself from excruciating torture: at last she sank, with her head forward,
and the blood poured out of her mouth.

Philip sprang from the table to her assistance, and prevented her from falling on the floor.
He laid her on the couch, watching with alarm the continued effusion.

"Oh! mother--mother, what is this?" cried he, at last, in great distress.

For some time his mother could make him no reply; she turned further on her side, that she
might not be suffocated by the discharge from the ruptured vessel, and the snow-white planks
of the floor were soon crimsoned with her blood.

"Speak, dearest mother, if you can," repeated Philip, in agony; "what shall I do? what shall
I give you? God Almighty! what is this?"

"Death, my child, death!" at length replied the poor woman, sinking into a state of unconsciousness.

Philip, now much alarmed, flew out of the cottage, and called the neighbours to his mother's
assistance. Two or three hastened to the call; and as soon as Philip saw them occupied in restoring
his mother, he ran as fast as he could to the house of a medical man, who lived about a mile
off--one Mynheer Poots, a little, miserable, avaricious wretch, but known to be very skilful
in his profession. Philip found Poots at home, and insisted upon his immediate attendance.

"I will come--yes, most certainly," replied Poots, who spoke the language but imperfectly;
"but Mynheer Vanderdecken, who will pay me?"

"Pay you! my uncle will, directly that he comes home."

"Your uncle de Skipper Van Brennen: no, he owes me four guilders, and he has owed me for a
long time. Besides, his ship may sink."

"He shall pay you the four guilders, and for this attendance also," replied Philip, in a rage;
"come directly, while you are disputing my mother may be dead."

"But, Mr Philip, I cannot come, now I recollect; I have to see the child of the burgomaster
at Terneuse," replied Mynheer Poots.

"Look you, Mynheer Poots," exclaimed Philip, red with passion; "you have but to choose,--will
you go quietly, or must I take you there? You'll not trifle with me."

Here Mynheer Poots was under considerable alarm, for the character of Philip Vanderdecken was
well known.

"I will come by-and-bye, Mynheer Philip, if I can."

"You'll come now, you wretched old miser," exclaimed Philip, seizing hold of the little man
by the collar, and pulling him out of his door.

"Murder! murder!" cried Poots, as he lost his legs, and was dragged along by the impetuous
young man.

Philip stopped, for he perceived that Poots was black in the face.

"Must I then choke you, to make you go quietly? for, hear me, go you shall, alive or dead."

"Well, then," replied Poots, recovering himself, "I will go, but I'll have you in prison to-night:
and, as for your mother, I'll not--no, that I will not--Mynheer Philip, depend upon it."

"Mark me, Mynheer Poots," replied Philip, "as sure as there is a God in heaven, if you do not
come with me, I'll choke you now; and when you arrive, if you do not do your best for my poor
mother, I'll murder you there. You know that I always do what I say, so now take my advice,
come along quietly, and you shall certainly be paid, and well paid--if I sell my coat."

This last observation of Philip, perhaps, had more effect than even his threats. Poots was
a miserable little atom, and like a child in the powerful grasp of the young man. The doctor's
tenement was isolated, and he could obtain no assistance until within a hundred yards of Vanderdecken's
cottage; so Mynheer Poots decided that he would go, first, because Philip had promised to pay
him, and secondly, because he could not help it.

This point being settled, Philip and Mynheer Poots made all haste to the cottage; and on their
arrival, they found his mother still in the arms of two of her female neighbours, who were
bathing her temples with vinegar. She was in a state of consciousness, but she could not speak.
Poots ordered her to be carried upstairs and put to bed, and pouring some acids down her throat,
hastened away with Philip to procure the necessary remedies.

"You will give your mother that directly, Mynheer Philip," said Poots, putting a phial into
his hand; "I will now go to the child of the burgomaster, and will afterwards come back to
your cottage."

"Don't deceive me," said Philip, with a threatening look.

"No, no, Mynheer Philip, I would not trust to your uncle Van Brennen for payment, but you have
promised, and I know that you always keep your word. In one hour I will be with your mother;
but you yourself must now be quick."

Philip hastened home. After the potion had been administered, the bleeding was wholly stopped;
and in half an hour, his mother could express her wishes in a whisper. When the little doctor
arrived, he carefully examined his patient, and then went downstairs with her son into the kitchen.

"Mynheer Philip," said Poots, "by Allah! I have done my best, but I must tell you that I have
little hopes of your mother rising from her bed again. She may live one day or two days, but
not more. It is not my fault, Mynheer Philip," continued Poots, in a deprecating tone.

"No, no; it is the will of Heaven," replied Philip, mournfully.

"And you will pay me, Mynheer Vanderdecken?" continued the doctor, after a short pause.

"Yes," replied Philip in a voice of thunder, and starting from a reverie. After a moment's
silence, the doctor recommenced.

"Shall I come to-morrow, Mynheer Philip? You know that will be a charge of another guilder:
it is of no use to throw away money or time either."

"Come to-morrow, come every hour, charge what you please; you shall certainly be paid," replied
Philip, curling his lip with contempt.

"Well, it is as you please. As soon as she is dead, the cottage and the furniture will be yours,
and you will sell them of course. Yes, I will come. You will have plenty of money. Mynheer
Philip, I would like the first offer of the cottage, if it is to let."

Philip raised his arm in the air as if to crush Mynheer Poots, who retreated to the corner.

"I did not mean until your mother was buried," said Poots, in a coaxing tone.

"Go, wretch, go!" said Philip, covering his face with his hands, as he sank down upon the blood-stained
couch.

After a short interval, Philip Vanderdecken returned to the bedside of his mother, whom he
found much better; and the neighbours, having their own affairs to attend to, left them alone.
Exhausted with the loss of blood, the poor woman slumbered for many hours, during which she
never let go the hand of Philip, who watched her breathing in mournful meditation.

It was about one o'clock in the morning when the widow awoke. She had in a great degree recovered
her voice, and thus she addressed her son:--

"My dear, my impetuous boy, and have I detained you here a prisoner so long?"

"My own inclination detained me, mother. I leave you not to others until you are up and well
again."

"That, Philip, I shall never be. I feel that death claims me; and, O, my son, were it not for
you, how should I quit this world rejoicing! I have long been dying, Philip,--and long, long
have I prayed for death."

"And why so, mother?" replied Philip, bluntly; "I've done my best."

"You have, my child, you have: and may God bless you for it. Often have I seen you curb your
fiery temper--restrain yourself when justified in wrath--to spare a mother's feelings. 'Tis
now some days that even hunger has not persuaded you to disobey your mother. And, Philip, you
must have thought me mad or foolish to insist so long, and yet to give no reason. I'll speak--again--directly."

The widow turned her head upon the pillow, and remained quiet for some minutes; then, as if
revived, she resumed:

"I believe I have been mad at times--have I not, Philip? And God knows I have had a secret
in my heart enough to drive a wife to frenzy. It has oppressed me day and night, worn my mind,
impaired my reason, and now, at last, thank Heaven! it has overcome this mortal frame: the
blow is struck, Philip,--I'm sure it is. I wait but to tell you all,--and yet I would not,--'twill
turn your brain as it has turned mine, Philip."

"Mother," replied Philip, earnestly, "I conjure you, let me hear this killing secret. Be heaven
or hell mixed up with it, I fear not. Heaven will not hurt me, and Satan I defy."

"I know thy bold, proud spirit, Philip,--thy strength of mind. If anyone could bear the load
of such a dreadful tale, thou couldst. My brain, alas! was far too weak for it; and I see it
is my duty to tell it to thee."

The widow paused as her thoughts reverted to that which she had to confide; for a few minutes
the tears rained down her hollow cheeks; she then appeared to have summoned resolution, and
to have regained strength.

"Philip, it is of your father I would speak. It is supposed--that he was--drowned at sea."

"And was he not, mother?" replied Philip, with surprise.

"O no!"

"But he has long been dead, mother?"

"No,--yes,--and yet--no," said the widow, covering her eyes.

Her brain wanders, thought Philip, but he spoke again:

"Then where is he, mother?"

The widow raised herself, and a tremor visibly ran through her whole frame, as she replied--

"IN LIVING JUDGMENT."

The poor woman then sank down again upon the pillow, and covered her head with the bedclothes,
as if she would have hid herself from her own memory. Philip was so much perplexed and astounded,
that he could make no reply. A silence of some minutes ensued, when, no longer able to beat
the agony of suspense, Philip faintly whispered--

"The secret, mother, the secret; quick, let me hear it."

"I can now tell all, Philip," replied his mother, in a solemn tone of voice. "Hear me, my son.
Your father's disposition was but too like your own;--O may his cruel fate be a lesson to you,
my dear, dear child! He was a bold, a daring, and, they say, a first-rate seaman. He was not
born here, but in Amsterdam; but he would not live there, because he still adhered to the Catholic
religion. The Dutch, you know, Philip, are heretics, according to our creed. It is now seventeen
years or more that he sailed for India, in his fine ship the Amsterdammer, with a valuable
cargo. It was his third voyage to India, Philip, and it was to have been, if it had so pleased
God, his last, for he had purchased that good ship with only part of his earnings, and one
more voyage would have made his fortune. O! how often did we talk over what we would do upon
his return, and how these plans for the future consoled me at the idea of his absence, for
I loved him dearly, Philip,--he was always good and kind to me; and after he had sailed, how
I hoped for his return! The lot of a sailor's wife is not to be envied. Alone and solitary
for so many months, watching the long wick of the candle, and listening to the howling of the
wind--foreboding evil and accident--wreck and widowhood. He had been gone about six months,
Philip, and there was still a long dreary year to wait before I could expect him back. One
night, you, my child, were fast asleep; you were my only solace--my comfort in my loneliness.
I had been watching over you in your slumbers; you smiled and half pronounced the name of mother;
and at last I kissed your unconscious lips, and I knelt and prayed--prayed for God's blessing
on you, my child, and upon him too--little thinking, at the time, that he was so horribly,
so fearfully CURSED."

The widow paused for breath, and then resumed. Philip could not speak. His lips were sundered,
and his eyes riveted upon his mother, as he devoured her words.

"I left you and went downstairs into that room, Philip, which since that dreadful night has
never been re-opened. I sate me down and read, for the wind was strong, and when the gale blows,
a sailor's wife can seldom sleep. It was past midnight, and the rain poured down. I felt unusual
fear,--I knew not why. I rose from the couch and dipped my finger in the blessed water, and
I crossed myself. A violent gust of wind roared round the house, and alarmed me still more.
I had a painful, horrible foreboding; when, of a sudden, the windows and window-shutters were
all blown in, the light was extinguished, and I was left in utter darkness. I screamed with
fright; but at last I recovered myself, and was proceeding towards the window that I might
reclose it, when whom should I behold, slowly entering at the casement, but--your father,--Philip!--Yes,
Philip,--it was your father!"

"Merciful God!" muttered Philip, in a low tone almost subdued into a whisper.

"I knew not what to think,--he was in the room; and although the darkness was intense, his
form and features were as clear and as defined as if it were noon-day. Fear would have inclined
me to recoil from,--his loved presence to fly towards him. I remained on the spot where I was,
choked with agonising sensations. When he had entered the room, the windows and shutters closed
of themselves, and the candle was relighted--then I thought it was his apparition, and I fainted
on the floor.

"When I recovered I found myself on the couch, and perceived that a cold (O how cold!) and
dripping hand was clasped in mine. This reassured me, and I forgot the supernatural signs which
accompanied his appearance. I imagined that he had been unfortunate, and had returned home.
I opened my eyes, and beheld my loved husband and threw myself into his arms. His clothes were
saturated with the rain: I felt as if I had embraced ice--but nothing can check the warmth
of a woman's love, Philip. He received my caresses, but he caressed not again: he spoke not,
but looked thoughtful and unhappy. 'William--William,' cried I! 'speak, Vanderdecken, speak
to your dear Catherine.'

"'I will,' replied he, solemnly, 'for my time is short.'

"'No, no, you must not go to sea again: you have lost your vessel, but you are safe. Have I
not you again?'

"'Alas! no--be not alarmed, but listen, for my time is short. I have not lost my vessel, Catherine,
BUT I HAVE LOST!!! Make no reply, but listen; I am not dead, nor yet am I alive. I hover between
this world and the world of Spirits. Mark me.

"'For nine weeks did I try to force my passage against the elements round the stormy Cape,
but without success; and I swore terribly. For nine weeks more did I carry sail against the
adverse winds and currents, and yet could gain no ground; and then I blasphemed,--ay, terribly
blasphemed. Yet still I persevered. The crew, worn out with long fatigue, would have had me
return to the Table Bay; but I refused; nay, more, I became a murderer,--unintentionally, it
is true, but still a murderer. The pilot opposed me, and persuaded the men to bind me, and
in the excess of my fury, when he took me by the collar, I struck at him; he reeled; and, with
the sudden lurch of the vessel, he fell overboard, and sank. Even this fearful death did not
restrain me; and I swore by the fragment of the Holy Cross, preserved in that relic now hanging
round your neck, that I would gain my point in defiance of storm and seas, of lightning, of
heaven, or of hell, even if I should beat about until the Day of Judgment.

"'My oath was registered in thunder, and in streams of sulphurous fire. The hurricane burst
upon the ship, the canvas flew away in ribbons; mountains of seas swept over us, and in the
centre of a deep o'erhanging cloud, which shrouded all in utter darkness, were written in letters
of livid flame, these words--UNTIL THE DAY OF JUDGMENT.

"'Listen to me, Catherine, my time is short. One Hope alone remains, and for this am I permitted
to come here. Take this letter.' He put a sealed paper on the table. 'Read it, Catherine, dear,
and try if you can assist me. Read it and now farewell--my time is come.'

"Again the window and window-shutters burst open--again the light was extinguished, and the
form of my husband was, as it were, wafted in the dark expanse. I started up and followed him
with outstretched arms and frantic screams as he sailed through the window;--my glaring eyes
beheld his form borne away like lightning on the wings of the wild gale, till it was lost as
a speck of light, and then it disappeared. Again the windows closed, the light burned, and
I was left alone!

"Heaven, have mercy! My brain!--my brain!--Philip!--Philip!" shrieked the poor woman; "don't
leave me--don't--don't--pray don't!"

During these exclamations the frantic widow had raised herself from the bed, and, at the last,
had fallen into the arms of her son. She remained there some minutes without motion. After
a time Philip felt alarmed at her long quiescence; he laid her gently down upon the bed, and
as he did so her head fell back--her eyes were turned--the widow Vanderdecken was no more.

Chapter II

Philip Vanderdecken, strong as he was in mental courage, was almost paralysed by the shock
when he discovered that his mother's spirit had fled; and for some time he remained by the
side of the bed with his eyes fixed upon the corpse, and his mind in a state of vacuity. Gradually
he recovered himself; he rose, smoothed down the pillow, closed her eyelids, and then clasping
his hands, the tears trickled down his manly cheeks. He impressed a solemn kiss upon the pale
white forehead of the departed, and drew the curtains round the bed.

"Poor mother!" said he, sorrowfully, as he completed his task, "at length thou hast found rest,--but
thou hast left thy son a bitter legacy."

And as Philip's thoughts reverted to what had passed, the dreadful narrative whirled in his
imagination and scathed his brain. He raised his hands to his temples, compressed them with
force, and tried to collect his thoughts, that he might decide upon what measures he should
take. He felt that he had no time to indulge his grief. His mother was in peace: but his father--where
was he?

He recalled his mother's words--"One hope alone remained." Then there was hope. His father
had laid a paper on the table--could it be there now? Yes, it must be; his mother had not had
the courage to take it up. Notes Autograghed on Public Business to Charles, Earl of Egremont
from George III.

Dated from 1762 and 1763.
Letter to Earl of Egremont from Lord Lyttleton,Complimentary Verses to Lady Egremont enclosed.
Dated from 1761, January 1st
A certain Debt belonging to the Duchess of Somerset. Dated from 1697, October 7th
Holograph Letter to the Countess of Northumberland from Charles II,
propsing her Grand-daughter's marriage, the Percy Heiress, to his
son George. 
Letter of marriage consent to his Father from Lord
Hertford. It was not locked; the doors
swung open, and drawer after drawer was examined, but Philip discovered not the object of his
search; again and again did he open the drawers, but they were all empty. It occurred to Philip
that there might be secret drawers, and he examined for some time in vain. At last he took
out all the drawers, and laid them on the floor, and lifting the cabinet off its stand he shook
it. A rattling sound in one corner told him that in all probability the key was there concealed.
He renewed his attempts to discover how to gain it, but in vain. Daylight now streamed through
the casements, and Philip had not desisted from his attempts: at last, wearied out, he resolved
to force the back panel of the cabinet; he descended to the kitchen, and returned with a small
chopping-knife and hammer, and was on his knees busily employed forcing out the panel, when
a hand was placed upon his shoulder.

Philip started; he had been so occupied with his search and his wild chasing thoughts, that
he had not heard the sound of an approaching footstep. He looked up and beheld the Father Seysen,
the priest of the little parish, with his eyes sternly fixed upon him. The good man had been
informed of the dangerous state of the widow Vanderdecken, and had risen at daylight to visit
and afford her spiritual comfort.

"How now, my son," said the priest: "fearest thou not to disturb thy mother's rest? and wouldst
thou pilfer and purloin even before she is in her grave?"

"I fear not to disturb my mother's rest, good father," replied Philip, rising on his feet,
"for she now rests with the blessed. Neither do I pilfer or purloin. It is not gold I seek,
although if gold there were, that gold would now be mine. I seek but a key, long hidden, I
believe, within this secret drawer, the opening of which is a mystery beyond my art."

"Thy mother is no more, sayest thou, my son? and dead without receiving the rites of our most
holy church! Why didst thou not send for me?"

"She died, good father, suddenly--most suddenly, in these arms, about two hours ago. I fear
not for her soul, although I can but grieve you were not at her side."

The priest gently opened the curtains, and looked upon the corpse. He sprinkled holy water
on the bed, and for a short time his lips were seen to move in silent prayer. He then turned
round to Philip.

"Why do I see thee thus employed? and why so anxious to obtain that key? A mother's death should
call forth filial tears and prayers for her repose. Yet are thine eyes dry, and thou art employed
upon an indifferent search while yet the tenement is warm which but now held her spirit. This
is not seemly, Philip. What is the key thou seekest?"

"Father, I have no time for tears--no time to spare for grief or lamentation. I have much to
do and more to think of than thought can well embrace. That I loved my mother, you know well."

"But the key thou seekest, Philip?"

"Father, it is the key of a chamber which has not been unlocked for years, which I must--will
open; even if--"

"If what, my son?"

"I was about to say what I should not have said. Forgive me, Father; I meant that I must search
that chamber."

"I have long heard of that same chamber being closed; and that thy mother would not explain
wherefore, I know well, for I have asked her, and have been denied. Nay, when, as in duty bound,
I pressed the question, I found her reason was disordered by my importunity, and therefore
I abandoned the attempt. Some heavy weight was on thy mother's mind, my son, yet would she
never confess or trust it with me. Tell me, before she died, hadst thou this secret from her?"

"I had, most holy father."

"Wouldst thou not feel comfort if thou didst confide to me, my son? I might advise--assist--"

"Father, I would indeed--I could confide it to thee, and ask for thy assistance--I know 'tis
not from curious feeling thou wouldst have it, but from a better motive. But of that which
has been told it is not yet manifest--whether it is as my poor mother says, or but the phantom
of a heated brain. Should it indeed be true, fain would I share the burthen with you--yet little
you might thank me for the heavy load. But no--at least not now--it must not, cannot be revealed.
I must do my work--enter that hated room alone."

"Fearest thou not?"

"Father, I fear nothing. I have a duty to perform--a dreadful one, I grant; but I pray thee,
ask no more; for, like my poor mother, I feel as if the probing of the wound would half unseat
my reason."

"I will not press thee further, Philip. The time may come when I may prove of service. Farewell,
my child; but I pray thee to discontinue thy unseemly labour, for I must send in the neighbours
to perform the duties to thy departed mother, whose soul I trust is with its God."

The priest looked at Philip; he perceived that his thoughts were elsewhere; there was a vacancy
and appearance of mental stupefaction, and as he turned away, the good man shook his head.

"He is right," thought Philip, when once more alone; and he took up the cabinet, and placed
it upon the stand. "A few hours more can make no difference: I will lay me down, for my head
is giddy."

Philip went into the adjoining room, threw himself upon his bed, and in a few minutes was in
a sleep as sound as that permitted to the wretch a few hours previous to his execution.

During his slumbers the neighbours had come in, and had prepared everything for the widow's
interment. They had been careful not to wake the son, for they held as sacred the sleep of
those who must wake up to sorrow. Among others, soon after the hour of noon arrived Mynheer
Poots; he had been informed of the death of the widow, but having a spare hour, he thought
he might as well call, as it would raise his charges by another guilder. He first went into
the room where the body lay, and from thence he proceeded to the chamber of Philip, and shook
him by the shoulder.

Philip awoke, and, sitting up, perceived the doctor standing by him.

"Well, Mynheer Vanderdecken," commenced the unfeeling little man, "so it's all over. I knew
it would be so, and recollect you owe me now another guilder, and you promised faithfully to
pay me; altogether, with the potion, it will be three guilders and a half--that is, provided
you return my phial."

Philip, who at first waking was confused, gradually recovered his senses during this address.

"You shall have your three guilders and a half, and your phial to boot, Mr Poots," replied
he, as he rose from off the bed.

"Yes, yes; I know you mean to pay me--if you can. But look you, Mynheer Philip, it may be some
time before you sell the cottage. You may not find a customer. Now, I never wish to be hard
upon people who have no money, and I'll tell you what I'll do. There is a something on your
mother's neck. It is of no value, none at all, but to a good Catholic. To help you in your
strait, I will take that thing, and then we shall be quits. You will have paid me, and there
will be an end of it."

Philip listened calmly: he knew to what the little miser had referred,--the relic on his mother's
neck--that very relic upon which his father swore the fatal oath. He felt that millions of
guilders would not have induced him to part with it.

"Leave the house," answered he abruptly. "Leave it immediately. Your money shall be paid."

Now, Mynheer Poots, in the first place, knew that the setting of the relic, which was in a
square frame of pure gold, was worth much more than the sum due to him: he also knew that a
large price had been paid for the relic itself, and as at that time such a relic was considered
very valuable, he had no doubt but that it would again fetch a considerable sum. Tempted by
the sight of it when he entered the chamber of death, he had taken it from the neck of the
corpse, and it was then actually concealed in his bosom, so he replied--

"My offer is a good one, Mynheer Philip, and you had better take it. Of what use is such trash?"

"I tell you, no," cried Philip, in a rage.

"Well, then, you will let me have it in my possession till I am paid, Mynheer Vanderdecken--that
is but fair. I must not lose my money. When you bring me my three guilders and a half and the
phial, I will return it to you."

Philip's indignation was now without bounds. He seized Mynheer Poots by the collar, and threw
him out of the door. "Away immediately," cried he, "or by--"

There was no occasion for Philip to finish the imprecation. The doctor had hastened away with
such alarm, that he fell down half the steps of the staircase, and was limping away across
the bridge. He almost wished that the relic had not been in his possession; but his sudden
retreat had prevented him, even if so inclined, from replacing it on the corpse.

The result of this conversation naturally turned Philip's thoughts to the relic, and he went
into his mother's room to take possession of it. He opened the curtains--the corpse was laid
out--he put forth his hand to untie the black ribbon. It was not there. "Gone!" exclaimed Philip.
"They hardly would have removed it--never would--. It must be that villain Poots--wretch; but
I will have it, even if he has swallowed it, though I tear him limb from limb!"

Philip darted down the stairs, rushed out of the house, cleared the moat at one bound, and
without coat or hat, flew away in the direction of the doctor's lonely residence. The neighbours
saw him as he passed them like the wind; they wondered, and they shook their heads. Mynheer
Poots was not more than half-way to his home, for he had hurt his ankle. Apprehensive of what
might possibly take place should his theft be discovered, he occasionally looked behind him;
at length, to his horror, he beheld Philip Vanderdecken at a distance bounding on in pursuit
of him. Frightened almost out of his senses, the wretched pilferer hardly knew how to act;
to stop and surrender up the stolen property was his first thought, but fear of Vanderdecken's
violence prevented him; so he decided on taking to his heels, thus hoping to gain his house,
and barricade himself in, by which means he would be in a condition to keep possession of what
he had stolen, or at least make some terms ere he restored it.

Mynheer Poots had need to run fast, and so he did; his thin legs bearing his shrivelled form
rapidly over the ground; but Philip, who, when he witnessed the doctor's attempt to escape,
was fully convinced that he was the culprit, redoubled his exertions, and rapidly came up with
the chase. When within a hundred yards of his own door, Mynheer Poots heard the bounding step
of Philip gain upon him, and he sprang and leaped in his agony. Nearer and nearer still the
step, until at last he heard the very breathing of his pursuer, and Poots shrieked in his fear,
like the hare in the jaws of the greyhound. Philip was not a yard from him; his arm was outstretched,
when the miscreant dropped down paralysed with terror, and the impetus of Vanderdecken was
so great that he passed over his body, tripped, and after trying in vain to recover his equilibrium,
he fell and rolled over and over. This saved the little doctor; it was like the double of a
hare. In a second he was again on his legs, and before Philip could rise and again exert his
speed, Poots had entered his door and bolted it within. Philip was, however, determined to
repossess the important treasure; and as he panted, he cast his eyes around, to see if any
means offered for his forcing his entrance into the house. But as the habitation of the doctor
was lonely, every precaution had been taken by him to render it secure against robbery; the
windows below were well barricaded and secured, and those on the upper story were too high
for anyone to obtain admittance by them.

We must here observe, that although Mynheer Poots was, from his known abilities, in good practice,
his reputation as a hard-hearted, unfeeling miser was well established. No one was ever permitted
to enter his threshold, nor, indeed, did any one feel inclined. He was as isolated from his
fellow-creatures as was his tenement, and was only to be seen in the chamber of disease and
death. What his establishment consisted of no one knew. When he first settled in the neighbourhood,
an old decrepit woman occasionally answered the knocks given at the door by those who required
the doctor's services; but she had been buried some time, and, ever since, all calls at the
door had been answered by Mynheer Poots in person, if he were at home, and if not, there was
no reply to the most importunate summons. It was then surmised that the old man lived entirely
by himself, being too niggardly to pay for any assistance. This Philip also imagined; and as
soon as he had recovered his breath, he began to devise some scheme by which he would be enabled
not only to recover the stolen property, but also to wreak a dire revenge.

The door was strong, and not to be forced by any means which presented themselves to the eye
of Vanderdecken. For a few minutes he paused to consider, and as he reflected, so did his anger
cool down, and he decided that it would be sufficient to recover his relic without having recourse
to violence. So he called out in a loud voice:--

"Mynheer Poots, I know that you can hear me. Give me back what you have taken, and I will do
you no hurt; but if you will not, you must take the consequence, for your life shall pay the
forfeit before I leave this spot."

This speech was indeed very plainly heard by Mynheer Poots, but the little miser had recovered
from his fright, and, thinking himself secure, could not make up his mind to surrender the
relic without a struggle; so the doctor answered not, hoping that the patience of Philip would
be exhausted, and that by some arrangement, such as the sacrifice of a few guilders, no small
matter to one so needy as Philip, he would be able to secure what he was satisfied would sell
at a high price.

Vanderdecken, finding that no answer was returned, indulged in strong invective, and then decided
upon measures certainly in themselves by no means undecided.

There was part of a small stack of dry fodder standing not far from the house, and under the
wall a pile of wood for firing. With these Vanderdecken resolved upon setting fire to the house,
and thus, if he did not gain his relic, he would at least obtain ample revenge. He brought
several armfuls of fodder and laid them at the door of the house, and upon that he piled the
fagots and logs of wood, until the door was quite concealed by them. He then procured a light
from the steel, flint, and tinder, which every Dutchman carries in his pocket, and very soon
he had fanned the pile into a flame. The smoke ascended in columns up to the rafters of the
roof while the fire raged below. The door was ignited, and was adding to the fury of the flames,
and Philip shouted with joy at the success of his attempt.

"Now, miserable despoiler of the dead--now, wretched thief, now you shall feel my vengeance,"
cried Philip, with a loud voice. "If you remain within, you perish in the flames; if you attempt
to come out you shall die by my hands. Do you hear, Mynheer Poots--do you hear?"

Hardly had Philip concluded this address when the window of the upper floor furthest from the
burning door was thrown open.

"Ay,--you come now to beg and to entreat; but no--no," cried Philip--who stopped as he beheld
at the window what seemed to be an apparition, for, instead of the wretched little miser, he
beheld one of the loveliest forms Nature ever deigned to mould--an angelic creature, of about
sixteen or seventeen, who appeared calm and resolute in the midst of the danger by which she
was threatened. Her long black hair was braided and twined round her beautifully-formed head;
her eyes were large, intensely dark, yet soft; her forehead high and white, her chin dimpled,
her ruby lips arched and delicately fine, her nose small and straight. A lovelier face could
not be well imagined; it reminded you of what the best of painters have sometimes, in their
more fortunate moments, succeeded in embodying, when they would represent a beauteous saint.
And as the flames wreathed and the smoke burst out in columns and swept past the window, so
might she have reminded you in her calmness of demeanour of some martyr at the stake.

"What wouldst thou, violent young man? Why are the inmates of this house to suffer death by
your means?" said the maiden, with composure.

For a few seconds Philip gazed, and could make no reply; then the thought seized him that,
in his vengeance, he was about to sacrifice so much loveliness. He forgot everything but her
danger, and seizing one of the large poles which he had brought to feed the flame, he threw
off and scattered in every direction the burning masses, until nothing was left which could
hurt the building but the ignited door itself; and this, which as yet--for it was of thick
oak plank--had not suffered very material injury, he soon reduced, by beating it, with clods
of earth, to a smoking and harmless state. During these active measures on the part of Philip,
the young maiden watched him in silence.

"All is safe now, young lady," said Philip. "God forgive me that I should have risked a life
so precious. I thought but to wreak my vengeance upon Mynheer Poots."

"And what cause can Mynheer Poots have given for such dreadful vengeance?" replied the maiden
calmly.

"What cause, young lady? He came to my house--despoiled the dead--took from my mother's corpse
a relic beyond price."

"Despoiled the dead!--he surely cannot--you must wrong him, young sir."

"No, no. It is the fact, lady,--and that relic--forgive me--but that relic I must have. You
know not what depends upon it."

"Wait, young sir," replied the maiden; "I will soon return."

Philip waited several minutes, lost in thought and admiration: so fair a creature in the house
of Mynheer Poots! Who could she be? While thus ruminating, he was accosted by the silver voice
of the object of his reveries, who, leaning out of the window, held in her hand the black ribbon
to which was attached the article so dearly coveted.

"Here is your relic, sir," said the young female; "I regret much that my father should have
done a deed which well might justify your anger: but here it is," continued she, dropping it
down on the ground by Philip; "and now you may depart."

"Your father, maiden! can he be your father?" said Philip, forgetting to take up the relic
which lay at his feet.

She would have retired from the window without reply, but Philip spoke again--

"Stop, lady, stop one moment, until I beg your forgiveness for my wild, foolish act. I swear
by this sacred relic," continued he, taking it from the ground and raising it to his lips,
"that had I known that any unoffending person had been in this house, I would not have done
the deed, and much do I rejoice that no harm hath happened. But there is still danger, lady;
the door must be unbarred, and the jambs, which still are glowing, be extinguished, or the
house may yet be burnt. Fear not for your father, maiden, for had he done me a thousand times
more wrong, you will protect each hair upon his head. He knows me well enough to know I keep
my word. Allow me to repair the injury I have occasioned, and then I will depart."

"No, no; don't trust him," said Mynheer Poots, from within the chamber.

"Yes, he may be trusted," replied the daughter; "and his services are much needed, for what
could a poor weak girl like me, and a still weaker father, do in this strait? Open the door,
and let the house be made secure." The maiden then addressed Philip--"He shall open the door,
sir, and I will thank you for your kind service. I trust entirely to your promise."

"I never yet was known to break my word, maiden," replied Philip; "but let him be quick, for
the flames are bursting out again."

The door was opened by the trembling hands of Mynheer Poots, who then made a hasty retreat
upstairs. The truth of what Philip had said was then apparent. Many were the buckets of water
which he was obliged to fetch before the fire was subdued; but during his exertions neither
the daughter nor the father made their appearance.

When all was safe, Philip closed the door, and again looked up at the window. The fair girl
made her appearance, and Philip, with a low obeisance, assured her that there was then no danger.

"I thank you, sir," replied she--"I thank you much. Your conduct, although hasty at first,
has yet been most considerate."

"Assure your father, maiden, that all animosity on my part hath ceased, and that in a few days
I will call and satisfy the demand he hath against me."

The window closed, and Philip, more excited, but with feelings altogether different from those
with which he had set out, looked at it for a minute, and then bent his steps to his own cottage.

Chapter III

The discovery of the beautiful daughter of Mynheer Poots had made a strong impression upon
Philip Vanderdecken, and now he had another excitement to combine with those which already
overcharged his bosom. He arrived at his own house, went upstairs, and threw himself on the
bed from which he had been roused by Mynheer Poots. At first, he recalled to his mind the scene
we have just described, painted in his imagination the portrait of the fair girl, her eyes,
her expression, her silver voice, and the words which she had uttered; but her pleasing image
was soon chased away by the recollection that his mother's corpse lay in the adjoining chamber,
and that his father's secret was hidden in the room below.

The funeral was to take place the next morning, and Philip, who, since his meeting with the
daughter of Mynheer Poots, appeared even to himself not so anxious for immediate examination
of the room, resolved that he would not open it until after the melancholy ceremony. With this
resolution he fell asleep; and exhausted with bodily and mental excitement, he did not wake
until the next morning, when he was summoned by the priest to assist at the funeral rites.
In an hour all was over; the crowd dispersed, and Philip, returning to the cottage, bolted
the door that he might not be interrupted, and felt happy that he was alone.

There is a feeling in our nature which will arise when we again find ourselves in the tenement
where death has been, and all traces of it have been removed. It is a feeling of satisfaction
and relief at having rid ourselves of the memento of mortality, the silent evidence of the
futility of our pursuits and anticipations. We know that we must one day die, but we always
wish to forget it. The continual remembrance would be too great a check upon our mundane desires
and wishes; and although we are told that we ever should have futurity in our thoughts, we
find that life is not to be enjoyed if we are not permitted occasional forgetfulness. For who
would plan what rarely he is permitted to execute, if each moment of the day he thought of
death? We either hope that we may live longer than others, or we forget that we may not.

If this buoyant feeling had not been planted in our nature, how little would the world have
been improved even from the deluge! Philip walked into the room where his mother had lain one
short hour before, and unwittingly felt relief. Taking down the cabinet, he now recommenced
his task; the back panel was soon removed, and a secret drawer discovered; he drew it out,
and it contained what he presumed to be the object of his search,--a large key with a slight
coat of rust upon it, which came off upon its being handled. Under the key was a paper, the
writing on which was somewhat discoloured; it was in his mother's hand, and ran as follows:--

"It is now two nights since a horrible event took place which has induced me to close the lower
chamber, and my brain is still bursting with terror. Should I not, during my lifetime, reveal
what occurred, still this key will be required, as at my death the room will be opened. When
I rushed from it I hastened upstairs, and remained that night with my child; the next morning
I summoned up sufficient courage to go down, turn the key, and bring it up into my chamber.
It is now closed till I close my eyes in death. No privation, no suffering, shall induce me
to open it, although in the iron cupboard under the buffet farthest from the window, there
is money sufficient for all my wants; that money will remain there for my child, to whom, if
I do not impart the fatal secret, he must be satisfied that it is one which it were better
should be concealed,--one so horrible as to induce me to take the steps which I now do. The
keys of the cupboards and buffets were, I think, lying on the table, or in my workbox, when
I quitted the room. There is a letter on the table, at least I think so. It is sealed. Let
not the seal be broken but by my son, and not by him unless he knows the secret. Let it be
burnt by the priest,--for it is cursed;--and even should my son know all that I do, oh! let
him pause,--let him reflect well before he breaks the seal,--for 'twere better he should know
NO MORE!"

"Not know more!" thought Philip, as his eyes were still fixed upon the paper. "Yes, but I must
and will know more! so forgive me, dearest mother, if I waste no time in reflection. It would
be but time thrown away, when one is resolved as I am."

Philip pressed his lips to his mother's signature, folded up the paper, and put it into his
pocket; then, taking the key, he proceeded downstairs.

It was about noon when Philip descended to open the chamber; the sun shone bright, the sky
was clear, and all without was cheerful and joyous. The front door of the cottage being closed,
there was not much light in the passage when Philip put the key into the lock of the long-closed
door, and with some difficulty turned it round. To say that when he pushed open the door he
felt no alarm, would not be correct; he did feel alarm, and his heart palpitated; but he felt
more than was requisite of determination to conquer that alarm, and to conquer more, should
more be created by what he should behold. He opened the door, but did not immediately enter
the room: he paused where he stood, for he felt as if he was about to intrude into the retreat
of a disembodied spirit, and that that spirit might reappear. He waited a minute, for the effort
of opening the door had taken away his breath, and, as he recovered himself, he looked within.

He could but imperfectly distinguish the objects in the chamber, but through the joints of
the shutters there were three brilliant beams of sunshine forcing their way across the room,
which at first induced him to recoil as if from something supernatural; but a little reflection
reassured him. After about a minute's pause, Philip went into the kitchen, lighted a candle,
and, sighing deeply two or three times as if to relieve his heart, he summoned his resolution,
and walked towards the fatal room. He first stopped at the threshold, and, by the light of
the candle, took a hasty survey. All was still: and the table on which the letter had been
left, being behind the door, was concealed by its being opened. It must be done, thought Philip:
and why not at once? continued he, resuming his courage; and, with a firm step, he walked into
the room and went to unfasten the shutters. If his hands trembled a little when he called to
mind how supernaturally they had last been opened, it is not surprising. We are but mortal,
and we shrink from contact with aught beyond this life. When the fastenings were removed and
the shutters unfolded, a stream of light poured into the room so vivid as to dazzle his eyesight;
strange to say, this very light of a brilliant day overthrew the resolution of Philip more
than the previous gloom and darkness had done; and with the candle in his hand, he retreated
hastily into the kitchen to re-summon his courage, and there he remained for some minutes,
with his face covered, and in deep thought.

It is singular that his reveries at last ended by reverting to the fair daughter of Mynheer
Poots, and her first appearance at the window; and he felt as if the flood of light which had
just driven him from the one, was not more impressive and startling than her enchanting form
at the other. His mind dwelling upon the beauteous vision appeared to restore Philip's confidence;
he now rose and boldly walked into the room. We shall not describe the objects it contained
as they chanced to meet the eyes of Philip, but attempt a more lucid arrangement.

The room was about twelve or fourteen feet square, with but one window; opposite to the door
stood the chimney and fireplace, with a high buffet of dark wood on each side. The floor of
the room was not dirty, although about its upper parts spiders had run their cobwebs in every
direction. In the centre of the ceiling, hung a quicksilver globe, a common ornament in those
days, but the major part of it had lost its brilliancy, the spiders' webs enclosing it like
a shroud. Over the chimney piece were hung two or three drawings framed and glazed, but a dusty
mildew was spotted over the glass, so that little of them could be distinguished. In the centre
of the mantel-piece was an image of the Virgin Mary, of pure silver, in a shrine of the same
metal, but it was tarnished to the colour of bronze or iron; some Indian figures stood on each
side of it. The glass doors of the buffets on each side of the chimney-piece were also so dimmed
that little of what was within could be distinguished; the light and heat which had been poured
into the room, even for so short a time, had already gathered up the damp of many years, and
it lay as a mist and mingled with the dust upon the panes of glass: still here and there a
glittering of silver vessels could be discerned, for the glass doors had protected them from
turning black, although much dimmed in lustre.

On the wall facing the window were other prints, in frames equally veiled in damp and cobwebs,
and also two bird-cages. The bird-cages Philip approached, and looked into them. The occupants,
of course, had long been dead; but at the bottom of the cages was a small heap of yellow feathers,
through which the little white bones of the skeletons were to be seen, proving that they had
been brought from the Canary Isles; and, at that period, such birds were highly valued. Philip
appeared to wish to examine everything before he sought that which he most dreaded, yet most
wished, to find. There were several chairs round the room: on one of them was some linen; he
took it up. It was some that must have belonged to him when he was yet a child. At last, Philip
turned his eyes to the wall not yet examined (that opposite the chimney-piece), through which
the door was pierced, and behind the door as it lay open, he was to find the table, the couch,
the workbox, and the FATAL LETTER. As he turned round, his pulse, which had gradually recovered
its regular motion, beat more quickly; but he made the effort, and it was over. At first he
examined the walls, against which were hung swords and pistols of various sorts, but chiefly
Asiatic bows and arrows, and other implements of destruction. Philip's eyes gradually descended
upon the table, and little couch behind it, where his mother stated herself to have been seated
when his father made his awful visit. The workbox and all its implements were on the table,
just as she had left them. The keys she mentioned were also lying there, but Philip looked,
and looked again; there was no letter. He now advanced nearer, examined closely--there was
none that he could perceive, either on the couch or on the table--or on the floor. He lifted
up the workbox to ascertain if it was beneath--but no. He examined among its contents, but
no letter was there. He turned over the pillows of the couch, but still there was no letter
to be found. And Philip felt as if there had been a heavy load removed from his panting chest.
"Surely, then," thought he, as he leant against the wall, "this must have been the vision of
a heated imagination. My poor mother must have fallen asleep, and dreamt this horrid tale.
I thought it was impossible, at least I hoped so. It must have been as I suppose; the dream
was too powerful, too like a fearful reality, partially unseated my poor mother's reason."
Philip reflected again, and was then satisfied that his suppositions were correct.

"Yes, it must have been so, poor dear mother! how much thou hast suffered! but thou art now
rewarded, and with God."

After a few minutes (during which he surveyed the room again and again with more coolness,
and perhaps some indifference, now that he regarded the supernatural history as not true),
Philip took out of his pocket the written paper found with the key, and read it over--"The
iron cupboard under the buffet farthest from the window." "'Tis well." He took the bunch of
keys from off the table, and soon fitted one to the outside wooden doors which concealed the
iron safe. A second key on the bunch opened the iron doors; and Philip found himself in possession
of a considerable sum of money, amounting, as near as he could reckon, to ten thousand guilders,
in little yellow sacks. "My poor mother!" thought he; "and has a mere dream scared thee to
penury and want, with all this wealth in thy possession?" Philip replaced the sacks, and locked
up the cupboards, after having taken out of one, already half emptied, a few pieces for his
immediate wants. His attention was next directed to the buffets above, which, with one of the
keys, he opened; he found that they contained china, silver flagons, and cups of considerable
value. The locks were again turned, and the bunch of keys thrown upon the table.

The sudden possession of so much wealth added to the conviction, to which Philip had now arrived,
that there had been no supernatural appearance, as supposed by his mother, naturally revived
and composed his spirits; and he felt a reaction which amounted almost to hilarity. Seating
himself on the couch, he was soon in a reverie, and as before, reverted to the lovely daughter
of Mynheer Poots, indulging in various castle-buildings, all ending, as usual, when we choose
for ourselves, in competence and felicity. In this pleasing occupation he remained for more
than two hours, when his thoughts again reverted to his poor mother and her fearful death.

"Dearest, kindest mother!" apostrophised Philip aloud, as he rose from his leaning position,
"here thou wert, tired with watching over my infant slumbers, thinking of my absent father
and his dangers, working up thy mind and anticipating evil, till thy fevered sleep conjured
up this apparition. Yes, it must have been so, for see here, lying on the floor, is the embroidery,
as it fell from thy unconscious hands, and with that labour ceased thy happiness in this life.
Dear, dear mother!" continued he, a tear rolling down his cheek as he stooped to pick up the
piece of muslin, "how much hast thou suffered when--God of Heaven!" exclaimed Philip, as he
lifted up the embroidery, starting back with violence, and overturning the table, "God of Heaven
and of Judgment, there is--there is," and Philip clasped his hands, and bowed his head in awe
and anguish, as in a changed and fearful tone he muttered forth--"the LETTER!"

It was but too true,--underneath the embroidery on the floor had lain the fatal letter of Vanderdecken.
Had Philip seen it on the table when he first went into the room, and was prepared to find
it, he would have taken it up with some degree of composure; but to find it now, when he had
persuaded himself that it was all an illusion on the part of his mother; when he had made up
his mind that there had been no supernatural agency; after he had been indulging in visions
of future bliss and repose, was a shock that transfixed him where he stood, and for some time
he remained in his attitude of surprise and terror. Down at once fell the airy fabric of happiness
which he had built up during the last two hours; and as he gradually recovered from his alarm,
his heart filled with melancholy forebodings. At last he dashed forward, seized the letter,
and burst out of the fatal room.

"I cannot, dare not, read it here," exclaimed he: "no, no, it must be under the vault of high
and offended Heaven, that the message must be received." Philip took his hat, and went out
of the house; in calm despair he locked the door, took out the key, and walked he knew not whither.

Chapter IV

If the reader can imagine the feelings of a man who, sentenced to death, and having resigned
himself to his fate, finds himself unexpectedly reprieved; who, having recomposed his mind
after the agitation arising from a renewal of those hopes and expectations which he had abandoned,
once more dwells upon future prospects, and indulges in pleasing anticipations: we say, that
if the reader can imagine this, and then what would be that man's feelings when he finds that
the reprieve is revoked, and that he is to suffer, he may then form some idea of the state
of Philip's mind when he quitted the cottage.

Long did he walk, careless in which direction, with the letter in his clenched hand, and his
teeth firmly set. Gradually he became more composed: and out of breath with the rapidity of
his motion, he sat down upon a bank, and there he long remained, with his eyes riveted upon
the dreaded paper, which he held with both his hands upon his knees.

Mechanically he turned the letter over; the seal was black. Philip sighed.--"I cannot read
it now," thought he, and he rose and continued his devious way.

For another half-hour did Philip keep in motion, and the sun was not many degrees above the
horizon. Philip stopped and looked at it till his vision failed. "I could imagine that it was
the eye of God," thought Philip, "and perhaps it may be. Why then, merciful Creator, am I thus
selected from so many millions to fulfil so dire a task?"

Philip looked about him for some spot where he might be concealed from observation--where he
might break the seal, and read this mission from a world of spirits. A small copse of brushwood,
in advance of a grove of trees, was not far from where he stood. He walked to it, and sat down,
so as to be concealed from any passers-by. Philip once more looked at the descending orb of
day, and by degrees he became composed.

"It is thy will," exclaimed he; "it is my fate, and both must be accomplished."

Philip put his hand to the seal,--his blood thrilled when he called to mind that it had been
delivered by no mortal hand, and that it contained the secret of one in judgment. He remembered
that that one was his father; and that it was only in the letter that there was hope,--hope
for his poor father, whose memory he had been taught to love, and who appealed for help.

"Coward that I am, to have lost so many hours!" exclaimed Philip; "yon sun appears as if waiting
on the hill, to give me light to read."

Philip mused a short time; he was once more the daring Vanderdecken. Calmly he broke the seal,
which bore the initials of his father's name, and read as follows:--

    "To CATHERINE.

    "One of those pitying spirits whose eyes rain tears for mortal
    crimes has been permitted to inform me by what means alone my
    dreadful doom may be averted.

    "Could I but receive on the deck of my own ship the holy relic
    upon which I swore the fatal oath, kiss it in all humility, and
    shed one tear of deep contrition on the sacred wood, I then might
    rest in peace.

    "How this may be effected, or by whom so fatal a task will be
    undertaken, I know not. O Catherine, we have a son--but, no, no,
    let him not hear of me. Pray for me, and now, farewell.

    "I. VANDERDECKEN."

"Then it is true, most horribly true," thought Philip; "and my father is even now IN LIVING
JUDGMENT. And he points to me--to whom else should he? Am I not his son, and is it not my duty?

"Yes, father," exclaimed Philip aloud, falling on his knees, "you have not written these lines
in vain. Let me peruse them once more."

Philip raised up his hand; but although it appeared to him that he had still hold of the letter,
it was not there--he grasped nothing. He looked on the grass to see if it had fallen--but no,
there was no letter, it had disappeared. Was it a vision?--no, no, he had read every word.
"Then it must be to me, and me alone, that the mission was intended. I accept the sign.

"Hear me, dear father,--if thou art so permitted,--and deign to hear me, gracious Heaven--hear
the son who, by this sacred relic, swears that he will avert your doom, or perish. To that
will he devote his days; and having done his duty, he will die in hope and peace. Heaven, that
recorded my rash father's oath, now register his son's upon the same sacred cross, and may
perjury on my part be visited with punishment more dire than his! Receive it, Heaven, as at
the last I trust that in thy mercy thou wilt receive the father and the son! and if too bold,
O pardon my presumption."

Philip threw himself forward on his face, with his lips to the sacred symbol. The sun went
down, and twilight gradually disappeared; night had, for some time, shrouded all in darkness,
and Philip yet remained in alternate prayer and meditation.

But he was disturbed by the voices of some men, who sat down upon the turf but a few yards
from where he was concealed. The conversation he little heeded; but it had roused him, and
his first feeling was to return to the cottage, that he might reflect over his plans; but although
the men spoke in a low tone, his attention was soon arrested by the subject of their conversation,
when he heard the name mentioned of Mynheer Poots. He listened attentively, and discovered
that they were four disbanded soldiers, who intended that night to attack the house of the
little doctor, who had, they knew, much money in his possession.

"What I have proposed is the best," said one of them; "he has no one with him but his daughter."

"I value her more than his money," replied another; "so, recollect before we go, it is perfectly
understood that she is to be my property."

"Yes, if you choose to purchase her, there's no objection," replied a third.

"Agreed; how much will you in conscience ask for a puling girl?"

"I say five hundred guilders," replied another.

"Well, be it so, but on this condition, that if my share of the booty does not amount to so
much, I am to have her for my share, whatever it may be."

"That's very fair," replied the other; "but I'm much mistaken if we don't turn more than two
thousand guilders out of the old man's chest."

"What do you two say--is it agreed--shall Baetens have her?"

"O yes," replied the others.

"Well, then," replied the one who had stipulated for Mynheer Poots' daughter, "now I am with
you, heart and soul. I loved that girl, and tried to get her,--I positively offered to marry
her, but the old hunks refused me, an ensign, an officer; but now I'll have revenge. We must
not spare him."

"No, no," replied the others.

"Shall we go now, or wait till it is later? In an hour or more the moon will be up,--we may
be seen."

"Who is to see us? unless, indeed, some one is sent for him. The later the better, I say."

"How long will it take us to get there? Not half an hour, if we walk. Suppose we start in half
an hour hence, we shall just have the moon to count the guilders by."

"That's all right. In the meantime I'll put a new flint in my lock, and have my carbine loaded.
I can work in the dark."

"You are used to it, Jan."

"Yes, I am,--and I intend this ball to go through the old rascal's head."

"Well, I'd rather you should kill him than I," replied one of the others, "for he saved my
life at Middleburgh, when everyone made sure I'd die."

Philip did not wait to hear any more; he crawled behind the bushes until he gained the grove
of trees, and passing through them, made a detour, so as not to be seen by these miscreants.
That they were disbanded soldiers, many of whom were infesting the country, he knew well. All
his thoughts were now to save the old doctor and his daughter from the danger which threatened
them; and for a time he forgot his father, and the exciting revelations of the day. Although
Philip had not been aware in what direction he had walked when he set off from the cottage,
he knew the country well; and now that it was necessary to act, he remembered the direction
in which he should find the lonely house of Mynheer Poots: with the utmost speed he made his
way for it, and in less than twenty minutes he arrived there, out of breath.

As usual, all was silent, and the door fastened. Philip knocked, but there was no reply. Again
and again he knocked, and became impatient. Mynheer Poots must have been summoned, and was
not in the house; Philip therefore called out, so as to be heard within. "Maiden, if your father
is out, as I presume he must be, listen to what I have to say--I am Philip Vanderdecken. But
now I overheard four wretches who have planned to murder your father, and rob him of his gold.
In one hour or less they will be here, and I have hastened to warn and to protect you, if I
may. I swear upon the relic that you delivered to me this morning that what I state is true."

Philip waited a short time, but received no answer.

"Maiden," resumed he, "answer me, if you value that which is more dear to you, than even your
father's gold to him. Open the casement above, and listen to what I have to say. In so doing
there is no risk; and even if it were not dark, already have I seen you."

A short time after this second address, the casement of the upper window was unbarred, and
the slight form of the fair daughter of Mynheer Poots was to be distinguished by Philip through
the gloom.

"What wouldst thou, young sir, at this unseemly hour? and what is it thou wouldst impart, but
imperfectly heard by me, when thou spokest this minute at the door?"

Philip then entered into a detail of all that he had overheard, and concluded by begging her
to admit him, that he might defend her.

"Think, fair maiden, of what I have told you. You have been sold to one of those reprobates,
whose name I think they mentioned, was Baetens. The gold, I know, you value not; but think
of thine own dear self--suffer me to enter the house, and think not for one moment that my
story's feigned. I swear to thee, by the soul of my poor dear mother, now, I trust, in heaven,
that every word is true."

"Baetens, said you, sir?"

"If I mistook them not, such was the name; he said he loved you once."

"That name I have in memory--I know not what to do or what to say--my father has been summoned
to a birth, and may be yet away for many hours. Yet how can I open the door to you--at night--he
is not at home--I alone? I ought not--cannot--yet do I believe you. You surely never could
be so base as to invent this tale."

"No--upon my hopes of future bliss I could not, maiden! You must not trifle with your life
and honour, but let me in."

"And if I did, what could you do against such numbers? They are four to one--would soon overpower
you, and one more life would be lost."

"Not if you have arms; and I think your father would not be left without them. I fear them
not--you know that I am resolute."

"I do indeed--and now you'd risk your life for those you did assail. I thank you--thank you
kindly, sir--but dare not open the door."

"Then, maiden, if you'll not admit me, here will I now remain; without arms, and but ill able
to contend with four armed villains; but still, here will I remain and prove my truth to one
I will protect against any odds--yes, even here!"

"Then shall I be thy murderer!--but that must not be. Oh! sir--swear, swear by all that's holy,
and by all that's pure, that you do not deceive me."

"I swear by thyself, maiden, than all to me more sacred!"

The casement closed, and in a short time a light appeared above. In a minute or two more the
door was opened to Philip by the fair daughter of Mynheer Poots. She stood with the candle
in her right hand, the colour in her cheeks varying--now flushing red, and again deadly pale.
Her left hand was down by her side, and in it she held a pistol half concealed. Philip perceived
this precaution on her part but took no notice of it; he wished to reassure her.

"Maiden!" said he, not entering, "if you still have doubts--if you think you have been ill-advised
in giving me admission--there is yet time to close the door against me: but for your own sake
I entreat you not. Before the moon is up, the robbers will be here. With my life I will protect
you, if you will but trust me. Who indeed could injure one like you?"

She was indeed (as she stood irresolute and perplexed from the peculiarity of her situation,
yet not wanting in courage when, it was to be called forth) an object well worthy of gaze and
admiration. Her features thrown into broad light and shade by the candle which at times was
half extinguished by the wind--her symmetry of form and the gracefulness and singularity of
her attire--were matter of astonishment to Philip. Her head was without covering, and her long
hair fell in plaits behind her shoulders; her stature was rather under the middle size, but
her form perfect; her dress was simple but becoming, and very different from that usually worn
by the young women of the district. Not only her features but her dress would at once have
indicated to a traveller that she was of Arab blood, as was the fact.

She looked in Philip's face as she spoke--earnestly, as if she would have penetrated into his
inmost thoughts; but there was a frankness and honesty in his bearing, and a sincerity in his
manly countenance, which reassured her. After a moment's hesitation she replied--

"Come in, sir; I feel that I can trust you."

Philip entered. The door was then closed and made secure.

"We have no time to lose, maiden," said Philip: "but tell me your name, that I may address
you as I ought."

"My name is Amine," replied she, retreating a little.

"I thank you for that little confidence; but I must not dally. What arms have you in the house,
and have you ammunition?"

"Both. I wish that my father would come home."

"And so do I," replied Philip, "devoutly wish he would, before these murderers come; but not,
I trust, while the attack is making, for there's a carbine loaded expressly for his head, and
if they make him prisoner, they will not spare his life, unless his gold and your person are
given in ransom. But the arms, maiden--where are they?"

"Follow me," replied Amine, leading Philip to an inner room on the upper floor. It was the
sanctum of her father, and was surrounded with shelves filled with bottles and boxes of drugs.
In one corner was an iron chest, and over the mantel-piece were a brace of carbines and three
pistols.

"They are all loaded," observed Amine, pointing to them, and laying on the table the one which
she had held in her hand.

Philip took down the arms, and examined all the primings. He then took up from the table the
pistol which Amine had laid there, and threw open the pan. It was equally well prepared. Philip
closed the pan, and with a smile observed,

"So this was meant for me, Amine?"

"No--not for you--but for a traitor, had one gained admittance."

"Now, maiden," observed Philip, "I shall station myself at the casement which you opened, but
without a light in the room. You may remain here, and can turn the key for your security."

"You little know me," replied Amine. "In that way at least I am not fearful; I must remain
near you and reload the arms--a task in which I am well practised."

"No, no," replied Philip; "you might be hurt."

"I may. But think you I will remain here idly, when I can assist one who risks his life for
me? I know my duty, sir, and I shall perform it."

"You must not risk your life, Amine," replied Philip; "my aim will not be steady, if I know
that you're in danger. But I must take the arms into the other chamber, for the time is come."

Philip, assisted by Amine, carried the carbines and pistols into the adjoining chamber; and
Amine then left Philip, carrying with her the light. Philip, as soon as he was alone, opened
the casement and looked out--there was no one to be seen; he listened, but all was silent.
The moon was just rising above the distant hill, but her light was dimmed by fleecy clouds,
and Philip watched for a few minutes; at length he heard a whispering below. He looked out,
and could distinguish through the dark the four expected assailants, standing close to the
door of the house. He walked away softly from the window, and went into the next room to Amine,
whom he found busy preparing the ammunition.

"Amine, they are at the door, in consultation. You can see them now, without risk. I thank
them, for they will convince you that I have told the truth."

Amine, without reply, went into the front room and looked out of the window. She returned,
and laying her hand upon Philip's arm, she said--

"Grant me your pardon for my doubts. I fear nothing now but that my father may return too soon,
and they seize him."

Philip left the room again, to make his reconnaissance. The robbers did not appear to have
made up their mind--the strength of the door defied their utmost efforts, so they attempted
stratagem. They knocked, and as there was no reply, they continued to knock louder and louder:
not meeting with success they held another consultation, and the muzzle of a carbine was then
put to the keyhole, and the piece discharged. The lock of the door was blown off, but the iron
bars which crossed the door within, above and below, still held it fast.

Although Philip would have been justified in firing upon the robbers when he first perceived
them in consultation at the door, still there is that feeling in a generous mind which prevents
the taking away of life, except from stern necessity; and this feeling made him withhold his
fire until hostilities had actually commenced. He now levelled one of the carbines at the head
of the robber nearest to the door, who was busy examining the effect which the discharge of
the piece had made, and what further obstacles intervened. The aim was true, and the man fell
dead, while the others started back with surprise at the unexpected retaliation. But in a second
or two a pistol was discharged at Philip, who still remained leaning out of the casement, fortunately
without effect; and the next moment he felt himself drawn away, so as to be protected from
their fire. It was Amine, who, unknown to Philip, had been standing by his side.

"You must not expose yourself, Philip," said she, in a low tone.

She called me Philip, thought he, but made no reply.

"They will be watching for you at the casement now," said Amine. "Take the other carbine, and
go below in the passage. If the lock of the door is blown off, they may put their arms in perhaps,
and remove the bars. I do not think they can, but I'm not sure; at all events, it is there
you should now be, as there they will not expect you."

"You are right," replied Philip, going down.

"But you must not fire more than once there; if another fall, there will be but two to deal
with, and they cannot watch the casement and force admittance to. Go--I will reload the carbine."

Philip descended softly and without a light. He went up to the door and perceived that one
of the miscreants, with his arms through the hole where the lock was blown off, was working
at the upper iron bar, which he could just reach. He presented his carbine, and was about to
fire the whole charge into the body of the man under his raised arm, when there was a report
of fire-arms from the robbers outside.

"Amine has exposed herself," thought Philip, "and may be hurt."

The desire of vengeance prompted him first to fire his piece through the man's body, and then
he flew up the stairs to ascertain the state of Amine. She was not at the casement; he darted
into the inner room, and found her deliberately loading the carbine.

"My God! how you frightened me, Amine. I thought by their firing that you had shown yourself
at the window."

"Indeed I did not; but I thought that when you fired through the door they might return your
fire, and you be hurt; so I went to the side of the casement and pushed out on a stick some
of my father's clothes, and they who were watching for you fired immediately."

"Indeed, Amine! who could have expected such courage and such coolness in one so young and
beautiful?" exclaimed Philip, with surprise.

"Are none but ill-favoured people brave, then?" replied Amine, smiling.

"I did not mean that, Amine--but I am losing time. I must to the door again. Give me that carbine,
and reload this."

Philip crept downstairs that he might reconnoitre, but before he had gained the door he heard
at a distance the voice of Mynheer Poots. Amine, who also heard it, was in a moment at his
side with a loaded pistol in each hand.

"Fear not, Amine," said Philip, as he unbarred the door, "there are but two, and your father
shall be saved."

The door was opened, and Philip, seizing his carbine, rushed out; he found Mynheer Poots on
the ground between the two men, one of whom had raised his knife to plunge it into his body,
when the ball of the carbine whizzed through his head. The last of the robbers closed with
Philip, and a desperate struggle ensued; it was, however, soon decided by Amine stepping forward
and firing one of the pistols through the robber's body.

We must here inform our readers that Mynheer Poots, when coming home, had heard the report
of fire-arms in the direction of his own house. The recollection of his daughter and of his
money--for to do him justice he did love her best--had lent him wings; he forgot that he was
a feeble old man and without arms; all he thought of was to gain his habitation. On he came,
reckless, frantic, and shouting, and rushed into the arms of the two robbers, who seized and
would have despatched him, had not Philip so opportunely come to his assistance.

As soon as the last robber fell, Philip disengaged himself and went to the assistance of Mynheer
Poots, whom he raised up in his arms, and carried into the house as if he were an infant. The
old man was still in a state of delirium from fear and previous excitement.

In a few minutes Mynheer Poots was more coherent.

"My daughter!" exclaimed he--"my daughter! where is she?"

"She is here, father, and safe," replied Amine.

"Ah! my child is safe," said he, opening his eyes and staring. "Yes, it is even so--and my
money--my money--where is my money?" continued he, starting up.

"Quite safe, father."

"Quite safe--you say quite safe--are you sure of it?--let me see."

"There it is, father, as you may perceive, quite safe--thanks to one whom you have not treated
so well."

"Who--what do you mean?--Ah, yes, I see him now--'tis Philip Vanderdecken--he owes me three
guilders and a half, and there is a phial--did he save you--and my money, child?"

"He did, indeed, at the risk of his life."

"Well, well, I will forgive him the whole debt--yes, the whole of it; but--the phial is of
no use to him--he must return that. Give me some water."

It was some time before the old man could regain his perfect reason. Philip left him with his
daughter, and, taking a brace of loaded pistols, went out to ascertain the fate of the four
assailants. The moon having climbed above the banks of clouds which had obscured her, was now
high in the heavens, shining bright, and he could distinguish clearly. The two men lying across
the threshold of the door were quite dead. The others, who had seized upon Mynheer Poots, were
still alive, but one was expiring and the other bled fast. Philip put a few questions to the
latter, but he either would not or could not make any reply; he removed their weapons and returned
to the house, where he found the old man attended by his daughter, in a state of comparative
composure.

"I thank you, Philip Vanderdecken--I thank you much. You have saved my dear child, and my money--that
is little, very little--for I am poor. May you live long and happily!"

Philip mused; the letter and his vow were, for the first time since he fell in with the robbers,
recalled to his recollection, and a shade passed over his countenance.

"Long and happily--no, no," muttered he, with an involuntary shake of the head.

"And I must thank you," said Amine, looking inquiringly in Philip's face. "O, how much have
I to thank you for!--and indeed I am grateful."

"Yes, yes, she is very grateful," interrupted the old man; "but we are poor--very poor. I talked
about my money because I have so little, and I cannot afford to lose it; but you shall not
pay me the three guilders and a half--I am content to lose that, Mr Philip."

"Why should you lose even that, Mynheer Poots?--I promised to pay you, and will keep my word.
I have plenty of money--thousands of guilders, and know not what to do with them."

"You--you--thousands of guilders!" exclaimed Poots. "Pooh, nonsense, that won't do."

"I repeat to you, Amine," said Philip, "that I have thousands of guilders: you know I would
not tell you a falsehood."

"I believed you when you said so to my father," replied Amine.

"Then perhaps, as you have so much, and I am so very poor, Mr Vanderdecken--"

But Amine put her hand upon her father's lips, and the sentence was not finished.

"Father," said Amine, "it is time that we retire. You must leave us for to-night, Philip."

"I will not," replied Philip; "nor, you may depend upon it, will I sleep. You may both to bed
in safety. It is indeed time that you retire--good-night, Mynheer Poots. I will but ask a lamp,
and then I leave you--Amine, good-night."

"Good-night," said Amine, extending her hand, "and many, many thanks."

"Thousands of guilders!" muttered the old man, as Philip left the room and went below.

Chapter V

Philip Vanderdecken sat down at the porch of the door; he swept his hair from his forehead,
which he exposed to the fanning of the breeze; for the continued excitement of the last three
days had left a fever on his brain which made him restless and confused. He longed for repose,
but he knew that for him there was no rest. He had his forebodings--he perceived in the vista
of futurity a long-continued chain of danger and disaster, even to death; yet he beheld it
without emotion and without dread. He felt as if it were only three days that he had begun
to exist; he was melancholy, but not unhappy. His thoughts were constantly recurring to the
fatal letter--its strange supernatural disappearance seemed pointedly to establish its supernatural
origin, and that the mission had been intended for him alone; and the relic in his possession
more fully substantiated the fact.

It is my fate, my duty, thought Philip. Having satisfactorily made up his mind to these conclusions,
his thoughts reverted to the beauty, the courage, and presence of mind shown by Amine. And,
thought he, as he watched the moon soaring high in the heavens, is this fair creature's destiny
to be interwoven with mine? The events of the last three days would almost warrant the supposition.
Heaven only knows, and Heaven's will be done. I have vowed, and my vow is registered, that
I will devote my life to the release of my unfortunate father--but does that prevent my loving
Amine?--No, no; the sailor on the Indian seas must pass months and months on shore before he
can return to his duty. My search must be on the broad ocean, but how often may I return? and
why am I to be debarred the solace of a smiling hearth?--and yet--do I right in winning the
affections of one who, if she loves, would, I am convinced, love so dearly, fondly, truly--ought
I to persuade her to mate herself with one whose life will be so precarious? but is not every
sailor's life precarious, daring the angry waves, with but an inch of plank 'tween him and
death? Besides, I am chosen to fulfil a task--and if so, what can hurt me, till in Heaven's
own time it is accomplished? but then how soon, and how is it to end? in death! I wish my blood
were cooler, that I might reason better.

Such were the meditations of Philip Vanderdecken, and long did he revolve such chances in his
mind. At last the day dawned, and as he perceived the blush upon the horizon, less careful
of his watch he slumbered where he sat. A slight pressure on the shoulder made him start up
and draw the pistol from his bosom. He turned round and beheld Amine.

"And that pistol was intended for me," said Amine, smiling, repeating Philip's words of the
night before.

"For you, Amine?--yes, to defend you, if 'twere necessary, once more."

"I know it would--how kind of you to watch this tedious night after so much exertion and fatigue!
but it is now broad day."

"Until I saw the dawn, Amine, I kept a faithful watch."

"But now retire and take some rest. My father is risen--you can lie down on his bed."

"I thank you, but I feel no wish for sleep. There is much to do. We must to the burgomaster
and state the facts, and these bodies must remain where they are until the whole is known.
Will your father go, Amine, or shall I?"

"My father surely is the more proper person, as the proprietor of the house. You must remain;
and if you will not sleep, you must take some refreshment. I will go in and tell my father;
he has already taken his morning's meal."

Amine went in, and soon returned with her father, who had consented to go to the burgomaster.
He saluted Philip kindly as he came out; shuddered as he passed on one side to avoid stepping
over the dead bodies, and went off at a quick pace to the adjacent town, where the burgomaster
resided.

Amine desired Philip to follow her, and they went into her father's room, where, to his surprise,
he found some coffee ready for him--at that time a rarity, and one which Philip did not expect
to find in the house of the penurious Mynheer Poots; but it was a luxury which, from his former
life, the old man could not dispense with.

Philip, who had not tasted food for nearly twenty-four hours, was not sorry to avail himself
of what was placed before him. Amine sat down opposite to him, and was silent during his repast.

"Amine," said Philip at last, "I have had plenty of time for reflection during this night,
as I watched at the door. May I speak freely?"

"Why not?" replied Amine. "I feel assured that you will say nothing that you should not say,
or should not meet a maiden's ear."

"You do me justice, Amine. My thoughts have been upon you and your father. You cannot stay
in this lone habitation."

"I feel it is too lonely; that is, for his safety--perhaps for mine--but you know my father--the
very loneliness suits him, the price paid for rent is little, and he is careful of his money."

"The man who would be careful of his money should place it in security--here it is not secure.
Now hear me, Amine. I have a cottage surrounded, as you may have heard, by many others, which
mutually protect each other. That cottage I am about to leave--perhaps for ever; for I intend
to sail by the first ship to the Indian seas."

"The Indian seas! why so?--did you not last night talk of thousands of guilders?"

"I did, and they are there; but, Amine, I must go--it is my duty. Ask me no more, but listen
to what I now propose. Your father must live in my cottage; he must take care of it for me
in my absence; he will do me a favour by consenting; and you must persuade him. You will there
be safe. He must also take care of my money for me. I want it not at present--I cannot take
it with me."

"My father is not to be trusted with the money of other people."

"Why does your father hoard? He cannot take his money with him when he is called away. It must
be all for you--and is not then my money safe?"

"Leave it then in my charge, and it will be safe; but why need you go and risk your life upon
the water, when you have such ample means?"

"Amine, ask not that question. It is my duty as a son, and more I cannot tell, at least at
present."

"If it is your duty, I ask no more. It was not womanish curiosity--no, no--it was a better
feeling, I assure you, which prompted me to put the question."

"And what was the better feeling, Amine?"

"I hardly know--many good feelings perhaps mixed up together--gratitude, esteem, respect, confidence,
good-will. Are not these sufficient?"

"Yes, indeed, Amine, and much to gain upon so short an acquaintance; but still I feel them
all, and more, for you. If, then, you feel so much for me, do oblige me by persuading your
father to leave this lonely house this day, and take up his abode in mine."

"And where do you intend to go yourself?"

"If your father will not admit me as a boarder for the short time I remain here, I will seek
some shelter elsewhere; but if he will, I will indemnify him well--that is, if you raise no
objection to my being for a few days in the house?"

"Why should I? Our habitation is no longer safe, and you offer us a shelter. It were, indeed,
unjust and most ungrateful to turn you out from beneath your own roof."

"Then persuade him, Amine. I will accept of nothing, but take it as a favour; for I should
depart in sorrow if I saw you not in safety.--Will you promise me?"

"I do promise to use my best endeavours--nay, I may as well say at once it shall be so; for
I know my influence. Here is my hand upon it. Will that content you?"

Philip took the small hand extended towards him. His feelings overcame his discretion; he raised
it to his lips. He looked up to see if Amine was displeased, and found her dark eye fixed upon
him, as once before when she admitted him, as if she would see his thoughts--but the hand was
not withdrawn.

"Indeed, Amine," said Philip, kissing her hand once more, "you may confide in me."

"I hope--I think--nay, I am sure I may," at last replied she.

Philip released her hand. Amine returned to the seat, and for some time remained silent and
in a pensive attitude. Philip also had his own thoughts, and did not open his lips. At last
Amine spoke.

"I think I have heard my father say that your mother was very poor--a little deranged; and
that there was a chamber in the house which had been shut up for years."

"It was shut up till yesterday."

"And there you found your money? Did your mother not know of the money?"

"She did, for she spoke of it on her death-bed."

"There must have been some potent reasons for not opening the chamber."

"There were."

"What were they, Philip?" said Amine, in a soft and low tone of voice.

"I must not tell, at least I ought not. This must satisfy you--'twas the fear of an apparition."

"What apparition?"

"She said that my father had appeared to her."

"And did he, think you, Philip?"

"I have no doubt that he did. But I can answer no more questions, Amine. The chamber is open
now, and there is no fear of his reappearance."

"I fear not that," replied Amine, musing. "But," continued she, "is not this connected with
your resolution of going to sea?"

"So far will I answer you, that it has decided me to go to sea; but I pray you ask no more.
It is painful to refuse you, and my duty forbids me to speak further."

For some minutes they were both silent, when Amine resumed--

"You were so anxious to possess that relic, that I cannot help thinking it has connection with
the mystery. Is it not so?"

"For the last time, Amine, I will answer your question--it has to do with it: but now no more."

Philip's blunt and almost rude manner of finishing his speech was not lost upon Amine, who replied,

"You are so engrossed with other thoughts, that you have not felt the compliment shown you
by my taking such interest about you, sir."

"Yes, I do--I feel and thank you too, Amine. Forgive me, if I have been rude; but recollect,
the secret is not mine--at least, I feel as if it were not. God knows, I wish I never had known
it, for it has blasted all my hopes in life."

Philip was silent; and when he raised his eyes, he found that Amine's were fixed upon him.

"Would you read my thoughts, Amine, or my secret?"

"Your thoughts perhaps--your secret I would not; yet do I grieve that it should oppress you
so heavily as evidently it does. It must, indeed, be one of awe to bear down a mind like yours,
Philip."

"Where did you learn to be so brave, Amine?" said Philip, changing the conversation.

"Circumstances make people brave or otherwise; those who are accustomed to difficulty and danger
fear them not."

"And where have you met with them, Amine?"

"In the country where I was born, not in this dank and muddy land."

"Will you trust me with the story of your former life, Amine? I can be secret, if you wish."

"That you can be secret perhaps, against my wish, you have already proved to me," replied Amine,
smiling; "and you have a claim to know something of the life you have preserved. I cannot tell
you much, but what I can will be sufficient. My father, when a lad on board of a trading vessel,
was taken by the Moors, and sold as a slave to a Hakim, or physician, of their country. Finding
him very intelligent, the Moor brought him up as an assistant, and it was under this man that
he obtained a knowledge of the art. In a few years he was equal to his master; but, as a slave,
he worked not for himself. You know, indeed it cannot be concealed, my father's avarice. He
sighed to become as wealthy as his master, and to obtain his freedom; he became a follower
of Mahomet, after which he was free, and practised for himself. He took a wife from an Arab
family, the daughter of a chief whom he had restored to health, and he settled in the country.
I was born; he amassed wealth, and became much celebrated; but the son of a Bey dying under
his hands was the excuse for persecuting him. His head was forfeited, but he escaped; not,
however, without the loss of all his beloved wealth. My mother and I went with him; he fled
to the Bedouins, with whom we remained some years. There I was accustomed to rapid marches,
wild and fierce attacks, defeat and flight, and oftentimes to indiscriminate slaughter. But
the Bedouins paid not well for my father's services, and gold was his idol. Hearing that the
Bey was dead, he returned to Cairo, where he again practised. He was allowed once more to amass
until the heap was sufficient to excite the cupidity of the new Bey; but this time he was fortunately
made acquainted with the intentions of the ruler. He again escaped, with a portion of his wealth,
in a small vessel, and gained the Spanish coast; but he never has been able to retain his money
long. Before he arrived in this country he had been robbed of almost all, and has now been
for these three years laying up again. We were but one year at Middleburgh, and from thence
removed to this place. Such is the history of my life, Philip."

"And does your father still hold the Mahomedan faith, Amine?"

"I know not. I think he holds no faith whatever: at least he hath taught me none. His god is gold."

"And yours?"

"Is the God who made this beautiful world, and all which it contains--the God of nature--name
him as you will. This I feel, Philip, but more I fain would know; there are so many faiths,
but surely they must be but different paths leading alike to heaven. Yours is the Christian
faith, Philip. Is it the true one? But everyone calls his own the true one, whatever his creed
may be."

"It is the true and only one, Amine. Could I but reveal--I have such dreadful proofs--"

"That your faith is true; then is it not your duty to reveal these proofs? Tell me, are you
bound by any solemn obligation never to reveal?"

"No, I am not; yet do I feel as if I were. But I hear voices--it must be your father and the
authorities--I must go down and meet them."

Philip rose, and went downstairs. Amine's eyes followed him as he went, and she remained looking
towards the door.

"Is it possible," said she, sweeping the hair from off her brow, "so soon,--yes, yes, 'tis
even so. I feel that I would sooner share his hidden woe--his dangers--even death itself were
preferable with him, than ease and happiness with any other. And it shall be strange indeed
if I do not. This night my father shall move into his cottage: I will prepare at once."

The report of Philip and Mynheer Poots was taken down by the authorities, the bodies examined,
and one or two of them recognised as well-known marauders. They were then removed by the order
of the burgomaster. The authorities broke up their council, and Philip and Mynheer Poots were
permitted to return to Amine. It will not be necessary to repeat the conversation which ensued:
it will be sufficient to state that Poots yielded to the arguments employed by Amine and Philip,
particularly the one of paying no rent. A conveyance for the furniture and medicines was procured,
and in the afternoon most of the effects were taken away. It was not, however, till dusk that
the strong box of the doctor was put into the cart, and Philip went with it as a protector.
Amine also walked by the side of the vehicle, with her father. As may be supposed, it was late
that night before they had made their arrangements, and had retired to rest.

Chapter VI

"This, then, is the chamber which has so long been closed," said Amine, on entering it the
next morning, long before Philip had awakened from the sound sleep produced by the watching
of the night before. "Yes, indeed, it has the air of having long been closed." Amine looked
around her, and then examined the furniture. Her eyes were attracted to the bird-cages; she
looked into them:--"Poor little things!" continued she, "and here it was his father appeared
unto his mother. Well, it may be so,--Philip saith that he hath proofs; and why should he not
appear? Were Philip dead, I should rejoice to see his spirit,--at least it would be something.
What am I saying--unfaithful lips, thus to betray my secret?--The table thrown over;--that
looks like the work of fear; a workbox, with all its implements scattered,--only a woman's
fear: a mouse might have caused all this; and yet there is something solemn in the simple fact
that, for so many years, not a living being has crossed these boards. Even that a table thus
overthrown could thus remain for years, seems scarcely natural, and therefore has its power
on the mind. I wonder not that Philip feels there is so heavy a secret belonging to this room--but
it must not remain in this condition--it must be occupied at once."

Amine, who had long been accustomed to attend upon her father, and perform the household duties,
now commenced her intended labours.

Every part of the room, and every piece of furniture in it, were cleaned; even the cobwebs
and dust were cleared away, and the sofa and table brought from the corner to the centre of
the room; the melancholy little prisons were removed; and when Amine's work of neatness was
complete, and the sun shone brightly into the opened window, the chamber wore the appearance
of cheerfulness.

Amine had the intuitive good sense to feel that strong impressions wear away when the objects
connected with them are removed. She resolved then to make Philip more at ease; for, with all
the fire and warmth of blood inherent in her race, she had taken his image to her heart, and
was determined to win him. Again and again did she resume her labour, until the pictures about
the room, and every other article, looked fresh and clean.

Not only the bird-cages, but the workbox, and all the implements, were removed; and the piece
of embroidery, the taking up of which had made Philip recoil, as if he had touched an adder,
was put away with the rest. Philip had left the keys on the floor. Amine opened the buffets,
cleaned the glazed doors, and was busy rubbing up the silver flagons when her father came into
the room.

"Mercy on me!" exclaimed Mynheer Poots; "and is all that silver?--then it must be true, and
he has thousands of guilders; but where are they?"

"Never do you mind, father; yours are now safe, and for that you have to thank Philip Vanderdecken."

"Yes, very true; but as he is to live here--does he eat much--what will he pay me? He ought
to pay well, as he has so much money."

Amine's lips were curled with a contemptuous smile, but she made no reply.

"I wonder where he keeps his money; and he is going to sea as soon as he can get a ship? Who
will have charge of his money when he goes?"

"I shall take charge of it, father," replied Amine.

"Ah--yes--well--we will take charge of it; the ship may be lost."

"No, we will not take charge of it, father; you will have nothing to do with it. Look after
your own."

Amine placed the silver in the buffets, locked the doors, and took the keys with her when she
went out to prepare breakfast, leaving the old man gazing through the glazed doors at the precious
metal within. His eyes were riveted upon it, and he could not remove them. Every minute he
muttered, "Yes, all silver."

Philip came downstairs; and as he passed by the room, intending to go into the kitchen, he
perceived Mynheer Poots at the buffet, and he walked into the room. He was surprised as well
as pleased with the alteration. He felt why and by whom it was done, and he was grateful. Amine
came in with the breakfast, and their eyes spoke more than their lips could have done; and
Philip sat down to his meal with less of sorrow and gloom upon his brow.

"Mynheer Poots," said Philip, as soon as he had finished, "I intend to leave you in possession
of my cottage, and I trust you will find yourself comfortable. What little arrangements are
necessary, I will confide to your daughter previous to my departure."

"Then you leave us, Mr Philip, to go to sea? It must be pleasant to go and see strange countries--much
better than staying at home. When do you go?"

"I shall leave this evening for Amsterdam," replied Philip, "to make my arrangements about
a ship, but I shall return, I think, before I sail."

"Ah! you will return. Yes--you have your money and your goods to see to; you must count your
money--we will take good care of it. Where is your money, Mr Vanderdecken?"

"That I will communicate to your daughter this forenoon, before I leave. In three weeks at
the furthest you may expect me back."

"Father," said Amine, "you promised to go and see the child of the burgomaster; it is time
you went."

"Yes, yes--by-and-bye--all in good time; but I must wait the pleasure of Mr Philip first--he
has much to tell me before he goes."

Philip could not help smiling when he remembered what had passed when he first summoned Mynheer
Poots to the cottage, but the remembrance ended in sorrow and a clouded brow.

Amine, who knew what was passing in the minds of both her father and Philip, now brought her
father's hat, and led him to the door of the cottage; and Mynheer Poots, very much against
his inclination, but never disputing the will of his daughter, was obliged to depart.

"So soon, Philip?" said Amine, returning to the room.

"Yes, Amine, immediately. But I trust to be back once more before I sail; if not, you must
now have my instructions. Give me the keys."

Philip opened the cupboard below the buffet, and the doors of the iron safe.

"There, Amine, is my money; we need not count it, as your father would propose. You see that
I was right when I asserted that I had thousands of guilders. At present they are of no use
to me, as I have to learn my profession. Should I return some day, they may help me to own
a ship. I know not what my destiny may be."

"And should you not return?" replied Amine, gravely.

"Then they are yours--as well as all that is in this cottage, and the cottage itself."

"You have relations, have you not?"

"But one, who is rich; an uncle, who helped us but little in our distress, and who has no children.
I owe him but little, and he wants nothing. There is but one being in this world who has created
an interest in this heart, Amine, and it is you. I wish you to look upon me as a brother--I
shall always love you as a dear sister."

Amine made no reply. Philip took some more money out of the bag which had been opened, for
the expenses of his journey, and then locking up the safe and cupboard, gave the keys to Amine.
He was about to address her, when there was a slight knock at the door, and in entered Father
Seysen, the priest.

"Save you, my son; and you, my child, whom as yet I have not seen. You are, I suppose, the
daughter of Mynheer Poots?"

Amine bowed her head.

"I perceive, Philip, that the room is now opened, and I have heard of all that has passed.
I would now talk with thee, Philip, and must beg this maiden to leave us for awhile alone."

Amine quitted the room, and the priest, sitting down on the couch, beckoned Philip to his side.
The conversation which ensued was too long to repeat. The priest first questioned Philip relative
to his secret, but on that point he could not obtain the information which he wished; Philip
stated as much as he did to Amine, and no more. He also declared his intention of going to
sea, and that, should he not return, he had bequeathed his property--the extent of which he
did not make known--to the doctor and his daughter. The priest then made inquiries relative
to Mynheer Poots, asking Philip whether he knew what his creed was, as he had never appeared
at any church, and report said that he was an infidel. To this Philip, as usual, gave his frank
answer, and intimated that the daughter, at least, was anxious to be enlightened, begging the
priest to undertake a task to which he himself was not adequate. To this request Father Seysen,
who perceived the state of Philip's mind with regard to Amine, readily consented. After a conversation
of nearly two hours, they were interrupted by the return of Mynheer Poots, who darted out of
the room the instant he perceived Father Seysen. Philip called Amine, and having begged her
as a favour to receive the priest's visits, the good old man blessed them both and departed.

"You did not give him any money, Mr Philip?" said Mynheer Poots, when Father Seysen had left
the room.

"I did not," replied Philip; "I wish I had thought of it."

"No, no--it is better not--for money is better than what he can give you; but he must not come
here."

"Why not, father," replied Amine, "if Mr Philip wishes it? It is his own house."

"O yes, if Mr Philip wishes it; but you know he is going away."

"Well, and suppose he is--why should not the Father come here? He shall come here to see me."

"See you, my child!--what can he want with you? Well, then, if he comes, I will not give him
one stiver--and then he'll soon go away."

Philip had no opportunity of further converse with Amine; indeed he had nothing more to say.
In an hour he bade her farewell in presence of her father, who would not leave them, hoping
to obtain from Philip some communication about the money which he was to leave behind him.

In two days Philip arrived at Amsterdam, and having made the necessary inquiries, found that
there was no chance of vessels sailing for the East Indies for some months. The Dutch East
India Company had long been formed, and all private trading was at an end. The Company's vessels
left only at what was supposed to be the most favourable season for rounding the Cape of Storms,
as the Cape of Good Hope was designated by the early adventurers. One of the ships which were
to sail with the next fleet was the Ter Schilling, a three-masted vessel, now laid up and unrigged.

Philip found out the captain, and stated his wishes to sail with him, to learn his profession
as a seaman; the captain was pleased with his appearance, and as Philip not only agreed to
receive no wages during the voyage, but to pay a premium as an apprentice learning his duty,
he was promised a berth on board as the second mate, to mess in the cabin; and he was told
that he should be informed whenever the vessel was to sail. Philip having now done all that
he could in obedience to his vow, determined to return to the cottage; and once more he was
in the company of Amine.

We must now pass over two months, during which Mynheer Poots continued to labour at his vocation,
and was seldom within doors, and our two young friends were left for hours together. Philip's
love for Amine was fully equal to hers for him. It was more than love--it was a devotion on
both sides, each day increasing. Who, indeed, could be more charming, more attractive in all
ways than the high-spirited, yet tender Amine? Occasionally the brow of Philip would be clouded
when he reflected upon the dark prospect before him; but Amine's smile would chase away the
gloom, and, as he gazed on her, all would be forgotten. Amine made no secret of her attachment;
it was shown in every word, every look, and every gesture. When Philip would take her hand,
or encircle her waist with his arm, or even when he pressed her coral lips, there was no pretence
of coyness on her part. She was too noble, too confiding; she felt that her happiness was centred
in his love, and she lived but in his presence. Two months had thus passed away, when Father
Seysen, who often called, and had paid much attention to Amine's instruction, one day came
in as Amine was encircled in Philip's arms.

"My children," said he, "I have watched you for some time: this is not well. Philip, if you
intend marriage, as I presume you do, still it is dangerous. I must join your hands."

Philip started up.

"Surely I am not deceived in thee, my son," continued the priest, in a severe tone.

"No, no, good Father; but I pray you leave me now: to-morrow you may come, and all will be
decided. But I must talk with Amine."

The priest quitted the room, and Amine and Philip were again alone. The colour in Amine's cheek
varied and her heart beat, for she felt how much her happiness was at stake.

"The priest is right, Amine," said Philip, sitting down by her. "This cannot last;--would that
I could ever stay with you: how hard a fate is mine! You know I love the very ground you tread
upon, yet I dare not ask thee to wed to misery."

"To wed with thee would not be wedding misery, Philip," replied Amine, with downcast eyes.

"'Twere not kindness on my part, Amine. I should indeed be selfish."

"I will speak plainly, Philip," replied Amine. "You say you love me,--I know not how men love,--but
this I know, how I can love. I feel that to leave me now were indeed unkind and selfish on
your part; for, Philip, I--I should die. You say that you must go away,--that fate demands
it,--and your fatal secret. Be it so;--but cannot I go with you?"

"Go with me, Amine--unto death?"

"Yes, death; for what is death but a release? I fear not death, Philip; I fear but losing thee.
Nay, more; is not your life in the hands of Him who made all? then why so sure to die? You
have hinted to me that you are chosen--selected for a task;--if chosen, there is less chance
of death; for until the end be fulfilled, if chosen, you must live. I would I knew your secret,
Philip: a woman's wit might serve you well: and if it did not serve you, is there no comfort,
no pleasure, in sharing sorrow as well as joy with one you say you dote upon?"

"Amine, dearest Amine; it is my love, my ardent love alone, which makes me pause: for, O Amine,
what pleasure should I feel if we were this hour united! I hardly know what to say, or what
to do. I could not withhold my secret from you if you were my wife, nor will I wed you till
you know it. Well, Amine, I will cast my all upon the die. You shall know this secret, learn
what a doomed wretch I am, though from no fault of mine, and then you yourself shall decide.
But remember, my oath is registered in heaven, and I must not be dissuaded from it; keep that
in mind, and hear my tale,--then if you choose to wed with one whose prospects are so bitter,
be it so,--a short-lived happiness will then be mine, but for you, Amine--"

"At once the secret, Philip," cried Amine, impatiently.

Philip then entered into a detail of what our readers are acquainted with. Amine listened in
silence; not a change of feature was to be observed in her countenance during the narrative.
Philip wound up with stating the oath which he had taken. "I have done," said Philip, mournfully.

"'Tis a strange story, Philip," replied Amine: "and now hear me;--but give me first that relic,--I
wish to look upon it. And can there be such virtue--I had nigh said, such mischief--in this
little thing? Strange; forgive me, Philip,--but I've still my doubts upon this tale of Eblis.
You know I am not yet strong in the new belief which you and the good priest have lately taught
me. I do not say that it cannot be true: but still, one so unsettled as I am may be allowed
to waver. But, Philip, I'll assume that all is true. Then, if it be true, without the oath
you would be doing but your duty; and think not so meanly of Amine as to suppose she would
restrain you from what is right. No, Philip, seek your father, and, if you can, and he requires
your aid, then save him. But, Philip, do you imagine that a task like this, so high, is to
be accomplished at one trial? O! no;--if you have been so chosen to fulfil it, you will be
preserved through difficulty and danger until you have worked out your end. You will be preserved,
and you will again and again return;--be comforted--consoled--be cherished--and be loved by
Amine as your wife. And when it pleases Him to call you from this world, your memory, if she
survive you, Philip, will equally be cherished in her bosom. Philip, you have given me to decide;--dearest
Philip, I am thine."

Amine extended her arms, and Philip pressed her to his bosom. That evening Philip demanded
his daughter of the father, and Mynheer Poots, as soon as Philip opened the iron safe and displayed
the guilders, gave his immediate consent.

Father Seysen called the next day and received his answer; and three days afterwards, the bells
of the little church of Terneuse were ringing a merry peal for the union of Amine Poots and
Philip Vanderdecken.

Chapter VII

It was not until late in the autumn that Philip was roused from his dream of love (for what,
alas! is every enjoyment of this life but a dream?) by a summons from the captain of the vessel
with whom he had engaged to sail. Strange as it may appear, from the first day which put him
in possession of his Amine, Philip had no longer brooded over his future destiny: occasionally
it was recalled to his memory, but immediately rejected, and, for the time, forgotten. Sufficient
he thought it to fulfil his engagement when the time should come; and although the hours flew
away, and day succeeded day, week week, and month month, with the rapidity accompanying a life
of quiet and unvarying bliss, Philip forgot his vow in the arms of Amine, who was careful not
to revert to a topic which would cloud the brow of her adored husband. Once, indeed, or twice,
had old Poots raised the question of Philip's departure, but the indignant frown and the imperious
command of Amine (who knew too well the sordid motives which actuated her father, and who,
at such times, looked upon him with abhorrence) made him silent, and the old man would spend
his leisure hours in walking up and down the parlour with his eyes riveted upon the buffets,
where the silver tankards now beamed in all their pristine brightness.

One morning, in the month of October, there was a tapping with the knuckles at the cottage
door. As this precaution implied a stranger, Amine obeyed the summons, "I would speak with
Master Philip Vanderdecken," said the stranger, in a half-whispering sort of voice.

The party who thus addressed Amine was a little meagre personage, dressed in the garb of the
Dutch seamen of the time, with a cap made of badger-skin hanging over his brow. His features
were sharp and diminutive, his face of a deadly white, his lips pale, and his hair of a mixture
between red and white. He had very little show of beard--indeed, it was almost difficult to
say what his age might be. He might have been a sickly youth early sinking into decrepitude,
or an old man, hale in constitution, yet carrying no flesh. But the most important feature,
and that which immediately riveted the attention of Amine, was the eye of this peculiar personage--for
he had but one; the right eye-lid was closed, and the ball within had evidently wasted away;
but his left eye was, for the size of his face and head, of unusual dimensions, very protuberant,
clear and watery, and most unpleasant to look upon, being relieved by no fringe of eyelash
either above or below it. So remarkable was the feature, that when you looked at the man, you
saw his eye and looked at nothing else. It was not a man with one eye, but one eye with a man
attached to it: the body was but the tower of the lighthouse, of no further value, and commanding
no further attention, than does the structure which holds up the beacon to the venturous mariner;
and yet, upon examination, you would have perceived that the man, although small, was neatly
made; that his hands were very different in texture and colour from those of common seamen;
that his features in general, although sharp, were regular; and that there was an air of superiority
even in the obsequious manner of the little personage, and an indescribable something about
his whole appearance which almost impressed you with awe. Amine's dark eyes were for a moment
fixed upon the visitor, and she felt a chill at her heart for which she could not account,
as she requested that he would walk in.

Philip was greatly surprised at the appearance of the stranger, who, as soon as he entered
the room, without saying a word, sat down on the sofa by Philip in the place which Amine had
just left. To Philip there was something ominous in this person taking Amine's seat; all that
had passed rushed into his recollection, and he felt that there was a summons from his short
existence of enjoyment and repose to a life of future activity, danger, and suffering. What
peculiarly struck Philip was, that when the little man sat beside him, a sensation of sudden
cold ran through his whole frame. The colour fled from Philip's cheek, but he spoke not. For
a minute or two there was a silence. The one-eyed visitor looked round him, and turning from
the buffets he fixed his eyes on the form of Amine, who stood before him; at last the silence
was broken by a sort of giggle on the part of the stranger, which ended in--

"Philip Vanderdecken--he! he!--Philip Vanderdecken, you don't know me?"

"I do not," replied Philip, in a half-angry tone.

The voice of the little man was most peculiar--it was a sort of subdued scream, the notes of
which sounded in your ear long after he had ceased to speak.

"I am Schriften, one of the pilots of the Ter Schilling," continued the man; "and I'm come--he!
he!"--and he looked hard at Amine--"to take you away from love"--and looking at the buffets--"he!
he! from comfort, and from this also," cried he, stamping his foot on the floor as he rose
from the sofa--"from terra firma--he! he!--to a watery grave perhaps. Pleasant!" continued
Schriften, with a giggle; and with a countenance full of meaning he fixed his one eye on Philip's
face.

Philip's first impulse was to put his new visitor out of the door; but Amine, who read his
thoughts, folded her arms as she stood before the little man, and eyed him with contempt, as
she observed:--

"We all must meet our fate, good fellow; and, whether by land or sea, death will have his due.
If death stare him in the face, the cheek of Philip Vanderdecken will never turn as white as
yours is now."

"Indeed!" replied Schriften, evidently annoyed at this cool determination on the part of one
so young and beautiful; and then fixing his eye upon the silver shrine of the Virgin on the
mantel-piece--"You are a Catholic, I perceive--he!"

"I am a Catholic," replied Philip; "but does that concern you? When does the vessel sail?"

"In a week--he! he!--only a week for preparation--only seven days to leave all--short notice!"

"More than sufficient," replied Philip, rising up from the sofa. "You may tell your captain
that I shall not fail. Come, Amine, we must lose no time."

"No, indeed," replied Amine, "and our first duty is hospitality: Mynheer, may we offer you
refreshment after your walk?"

"This day week," said Schriften, addressing Philip, and without making a reply to Amine. Philip
nodded his head, the little man turned on his heel and left the room, and in a short time was
out of sight.

Amine sank down on the sofa. The breaking-up of her short hour of happiness had been too sudden,
too abrupt, and too cruelly brought about for a fondly doting, although heroic, woman. There
was an evident malignity in the words and manner of the one-eyed messenger, an appearance as
if he knew more than others, which awed and confused both Philip and herself. Amine wept not,
but she covered her face with her hands as Philip, with no steady pace, walked up and down
the small room. Again, with all the vividness of colouring, did the scenes half forgotten recur
to his memory. Again did he penetrate the fatal chamber--again was it obscure. The embroidery
lay at his feet, and once more he started as when the letter appeared upon the floor.

They had both awakened from a dream of present bliss, and shuddered at the awful future which
presented itself. A few minutes were sufficient for Philip to resume his natural self-possession.
He sat down by the side of his Amine, and clasped her in his arms. They remained silent. They
knew too well each other's thoughts; and, excruciating as was the effort, they were both summoning
up their courage to bear, and steeling their hearts against the conviction that, in this world,
they must now expect to be for a time, perhaps for ever, separated.

Amine was the first to speak: removing her arms, which had been wound round her husband, she
first put his hand to her heart, as if to compress its painful throbbings, and then observed--

"Surely that was no earthly messenger, Philip! Did you not feel chilled to death when he sat
by you? I did, as he came in."

Philip, who had the same thought as Amine, but did not wish to alarm her, answered confusedly--

"Nay, Amine, you fancy--that is, the suddenness of his appearance and his strange conduct have
made you imagine this; but I saw in him but a man who, from his peculiar deformity, has become
an envious outcast of society--debarred from domestic happiness, from the smiles of the other
sex; for what woman could smile upon such a creature? His bile raised at so much beauty in
the arms of another, he enjoyed a malignant pleasure in giving a message which he felt would
break upon those pleasures from which he is cut off. Be assured, my love, that it was nothing
more."

"And even if my conjecture were correct, what does it matter?" replied Amine. "There can be
nothing more--nothing which can render your position more awful and more desperate. As your
wife, Philip, I feel less courage than I did when I gave my willing hand. I knew not then what
would be the extent of my loss; but fear not, much as I feel here," continued Amine, putting
her hand to her heart--"I am prepared, and proud that he who is selected for such a task is
my husband." Amine paused. "You cannot surely have been mistaken, Philip?"

"No! Amine, I have not been mistaken, either in the summons or in my own courage, or in my
selection of a wife," replied Philip, mournfully, as he embraced her. "It is the will of Heaven."

"Then may its will be done," replied Amine, rising from her seat. "The first pang is over.
I feel better now, Philip. Your Amine knows her duty."

Philip made no reply; when, after a few moments, Amine continued:

"But one short week, Philip--"

"I would it had been but one day;" replied he; "it would have been long enough. He has come
too soon--the one-eyed monster."

"Nay, not so, Philip. I thank him for the week--'tis but a short time to wean myself from happiness.
I grant you, that were I to tease, to vex, to unman you with my tears, my prayers, or my upbraidings
(as some wives would do, Philip), one day would be more than sufficient for such a scene of
weakness on my part, and misery on yours. But, no, Philip, your Amine knows her duty better.
You must go like some knight of old to perilous encounter, perhaps to death; but Amine will
arm you, and show her love by closing carefully each rivet to protect you in your peril, and
will see you depart full of hope and confidence, anticipating your return. A week is not too
long, Philip, when employed as I trust I shall employ it--a week to interchange our sentiments,
to hear your voice, to listen to your words (each of which will be engraven on my heart's memory),
to ponder on them, and feed my love with them in your absence and in my solitude. No! no! Philip;
I thank God that there is yet a week."

"And so do I, then, Amine; and, after all, we knew that this must come."

"Yes! but my love was so potent, that it banished memory."

"And yet during our separation your love must feed on memory, Amine."

Amine sighed. Here their conversation was interrupted by the entrance of Mynheer Poots, who,
struck with the alteration in Amine's radiant features, exclaimed, "Holy Prophet! what is the
matter now?"

"Nothing more than what we all knew before," replied Philip; "I am about to leave you--the
ship will sail in a week."

"Oh! you will sail in a week?"

There was a curious expression in the face of the old man as he endeavoured to suppress, before
Amine and her husband, the joy which he felt at Philip's departure. Gradually he subdued his
features into gravity, and said--

"That is very bad news, indeed."

No answer was made by Amine or Philip, who quitted the room together.

We must pass over this week, which was occupied in preparations for Philip's departure. We
must pass over the heroism of Amine, who controlled her feelings, racked as she was with intense
agony at the idea of separating from her adored husband. We cannot dwell upon the conflicting
emotions in the breast of Philip, who left competence, happiness, and love, to encounter danger,
privation, and death. Now, at one time, he would almost resolve to remain, and then at others,
as he took the relic from his bosom and remembered his vow registered upon it, he was nearly
as anxious to depart. Amine, too, as she fell asleep in her husband's arms, would count the
few hours left them; or she would shudder, as she lay awake and the wind howled, at the prospect
of what Philip would have to encounter. It was a long week to both of them, and, although they
thought that time flew fast, it was almost a relief when the morning came that was to separate
them; for to their feelings, which, from regard to each other, had been pent up and controlled,
they could then give vent; their surcharged bosoms could be relieved; certainty had driven
away suspense, and hope was still left to cheer them and brighten up the dark horizon of the
future.

"Philip," said Amine, as they sat together with their hands entwined, "I shall not feel so
much when you are gone. I do not forget that all this was told me before we were wed, and that
for my love I took the hazard. My fond heart often tells me that you will return; but it may
deceive me--return you may, but not in life. In this room I shall await you; on this sofa,
removed to its former station, I shall sit; and if you cannot appear to me alive, O refuse
me not, if it be possible, to appear to me when dead. I shall fear no storm, no bursting open
of the window. O no! I shall hail the presence even of your spirit. Once more; let me but see
you--let me be assured that you are dead--and then I shall know that I have no more to live
for in this world, and shall hasten to join you in a world of bliss. Promise me, Philip."

"I promise all you ask, provided Heaven will so permit; but, Amine," and Philip's lips trembled,
"I cannot--merciful God! I am indeed tried. Amine, I can stay no longer."

Amine's dark eyes were fixed upon her husband--she could not speak--her features were convulsed--nature
could no longer hold up against her excess of feeling--she fell into his arms, and lay motionless.
Philip, about to impress a last kiss upon her pale lips, perceived that she had fainted.

"She feels not now," said he, as he laid her upon the sofa; "it is better that it should be
so--too soon will she awake to misery."

Summoning to the assistance of his daughter Mynheer Poots, who was in the adjoining room, Philip
caught up his hat, imprinted one more fervent kiss upon her forehead, burst from the house,
and was out of sight long before Amine had recovered from her swoon.

Chapter VIII

Before we follow Philip Vanderdecken in his venturous career, it will be necessary to refresh
the memory of our readers by a succinct recapitulation of the circumstances that had directed
the enterprise of the Dutch towards the country of the East, which was now proving to them
a source of wealth which they considered as inexhaustible.

Let us begin at the beginning. Charles the Fifth, after having possessed the major part of
Europe, retired from the world, for reasons best known to himself, and divided his kingdoms
between Ferdinand and Philip. To Ferdinand he gave Austria and its dependencies; to Philip
Spain; but to make the division more equal and palatable to the latter, he threw the Low Countries,
with the few millions vegetating upon them, into the bargain. Having thus disposed of his fellow-mortals
much to his own satisfaction, he went into a convent, reserving for himself a small income,
twelve men, and a pony. Whether he afterwards repented his hobby, or mounted his pony, is not
recorded; but this is certain--that in two years he died.

Philip thought (as many have thought before and since) that he had a right to do what he pleased
with his own. He therefore took away from the Hollanders most of their liberties: to make amends,
however, he gave them the Inquisition; but the Dutch grumbled, and Philip, to stop their grumbling,
burnt a few of them. Upon which, the Dutch, who are aquatic in their propensities, protested
against a religion which was much too warm for their constitutions. In short, heresy made great
progress; and the Duke of Alva was despatched with a large army, to prove to the Hollanders
that the Inquisition was the very best of all possible arrangements, and that it was infinitely
better that a man should be burnt for half-an-hour in this world than for eternity in the next.

This slight difference of opinion was the occasion of a war, which lasted about eight years,
and which, after having saved some hundreds of thousands the trouble of dying in their beds,
at length ended in the Seven United Provinces being declared independent. Now we must go back
again.

For a century after Vasco de Gama had discovered the passage round the Cape of Good Hope, the
Portuguese were not interfered with by other nations. At last the adventurous spirit of the
English nation was roused. The passage to India by the Cape had been claimed by the Portuguese
as their sole right, and they defended it by force. For a long time no private company ventured
to oppose them, and the trade was not of that apparent value to induce any government to embark
in a war upon the question. The English adventurers, therefore, turned their attention to the
discovery of a north-west passage to India, with which the Portuguese could have no right to
interfere, and in vain attempts to discover that passage, the best part of the fifteenth century
was employed. At last they abandoned their endeavours, and resolved no longer to be deterred
by the Portuguese pretensions.

After one or two unsuccessful expeditions, an armament was fitted out and put under the orders
of Drake. This courageous and successful navigator accomplished more than the most sanguine
had anticipated. He returned to England in the month of May, 1580, after a voyage which occupied
him nearly three years; bringing home with him great riches, and having made most favourable
arrangements with the king of the Molucca Islands.

His success was followed up by Cavendish and others in 1600. The English East India Company,
in the meanwhile, received their first charter from the government, and had now been with various
success carrying on the trade for upwards of fifty years.

During the time that the Dutch were vassals to the crown of Spain, it was their custom to repair
to Lisbon for the productions of the East, and afterwards to distribute them through Europe;
but when they quarrelled with Philip, they were no longer admitted as retailers of his Indian
produce: the consequence was, that, while asserting, and fighting for, their independence,
they had also fitted out expeditions to India. They were successful; and in 1602 the various
speculators were, by the government, formed into a company, upon the same principles and arrangement
as those which had been chartered in England.

At the time, therefore, to which we are reverting, the English and Dutch had been trading in
the Indian seas for more than fifty years; and the Portuguese had lost nearly all their power,
from the alliances and friendships which their rivals had formed with the potentates of the
East, who had suffered from the Portuguese avarice and cruelty.

Whatever may have been the sum of obligation which the Dutch owed to the English for the assistance
they received from them during their struggle for independence, it does not appear that their
gratitude extended beyond the Cape; for, on the other side of it, the Portuguese, English,
and Dutch fought and captured each other's vessels without ceremony; and there was no law but
that of main force. The mother countries were occasionally called upon to interfere, but the
interference up to the above time had produced nothing more than a paper war; it being very
evident that all parties were in the wrong.

In 1650, Cromwell usurped the throne of England, and the year afterwards, having, among other
points, vainly demanded of the Dutch satisfaction for the murder of his regicide ambassador,
which took place in this year, and some compensation for the cruelties exercised on the English
at Amboyne some thirty years before he declared war with Holland. To prove that he was in earnest,
he seized more than two hundred Dutch vessels, and the Dutch then (very unwillingly) prepared
for war. Blake and Van Tromp met, and the naval combats were most obstinate. In the "History
of England" the victory is almost invariably given to the English, but in that of Holland to
the Dutch. By all accounts, these engagements were so obstinate, that in each case they were
both well beaten. However, in 1654, peace was signed; the Dutchman promising "to take his hat
off" whenever he should meet an Englishman on the high seas--a mere act of politeness which
Mynheer did not object to, as it cost nothing. And now, having detailed the state of things
up to the time of Philip's embarkation, we shall proceed with our story.

As soon as Philip was clear of his own threshold, he hastened away as though he were attempting
to escape from his own painful thoughts. In two days he arrived at Amsterdam, where his first
object was to procure a small, but strong, steel chain to replace the ribbon by which the relic
had hitherto been secured round his neck. Having done this, he hastened to embark with his
effects on board of the Ter Schilling. Philip had not forgotten to bring with him the money
which he had agreed to pay the captain, in consideration of being received on board as an apprentice
rather than a sailor. He had also furnished himself with a further sum for his own exigencies.
It was late in the evening when he arrived on board of the Ter Schilling, which lay at single
anchor, surrounded by the other vessels composing the Indian fleet. The captain, whose name
was Kloots, received him with kindness, showed him his berth, and then went below in the hold
to decide a question relative to the cargo, leaving Philip on deck to his own reflections.

And this, then, thought Philip, as he leaned against the taffrail and looked forward--this,
then, is the vessel in which my first attempt is to be made. First and--perhaps, last. How
little do those with whom I am about to sail imagine the purport of my embarkation? How different
are my views from those of others? Do I seek a fortune? No! Is it to satisfy curiosity and
a truant spirit? No! I seek communion with the dead. Can I meet the dead without danger to
myself and those who sail with me? I should think not, for I cannot join it but in death. Did
they surmise my wishes and intentions, would they permit me to remain one hour on board? Superstitious
as seamen are said to be, they might find a good excuse, if they knew my mission, not only
for their superstition, but for ridding themselves of one on such an awful errand. Awful indeed!
and how to be accomplished? Heaven alone, with perseverance on my part, can solve the mystery.
And Philip's thoughts reverted to his Amine. He folded his arms and, entranced in meditation,
with his eyes raised to the firmament, he appeared to watch the flying scud.

"Had you not better go below?" said a mild voice, which made Philip start from his reverie.

It was that of the first mate, whose name was Hillebrant, a short, well-set man of about thirty
years of age. His hair was flaxen, and fell in long flakes upon his shoulders, his complexion
fair, and his eyes of a soft blue; although there was little of the sailor in his appearance,
few knew or did their duty better.

"I thank you," replied Philip; "I had, indeed, forgotten myself, and where I was: my thoughts
were far away. Good-night, and many thanks."

The Ter Schilling, like most of the vessels of that period, was very different in her build
and fitting from those of the present day. She was ship-rigged, and of about four hundred tons
burden. Her bottom was nearly flat, and her sides fell in (as she rose above the water), so
that her upper decks were not half the width of the hold.

All the vessels employed by the Company being armed, she had her main deck clear of goods,
and carried six nine-pounders on each broadside; her ports were small and oval. There was a
great spring in all her decks,--that is to say, she ran with a curve forward and aft. On her
forecastle another small deck ran from the knight-heads, which was called the top-gallant forecastle.
Her quarter-deck was broken with a poop, which rose high out of the water. The bowsprit staved
very much, and was to appearance almost as a fourth mast: the more so, as she carried a square
spritsail and sprit-topsail. On her quarter-deck and poop-bulwarks were fixed in sockets implements
of warfare now long in disuse, but what were then known by the names of cohorns and patteraroes;
they turned round on a swivel, and were pointed by an iron handle fixed to the breech. The
sail abaft the mizen-mast (corresponding to the driver or spanker of the present day) was fixed
upon a lateen-yard. It is hardly necessary to add (after this description) that the dangers
of a long voyage were not a little increased by the peculiar structure of the vessels, which
(although with such top hamper, and so much wood above water, they could make good way before
a favourable breeze) could hold no wind, and had but little chance if caught upon a lee-shore.

The crew of the Ter Schilling were composed of the captain, two mates, two pilots, and forty-five
men. The supercargo had not yet come on board. The cabin (under the poop) was appropriated
to the supercargo; but the main-deck cabin to the captain and mates, who composed the whole
of the cabin mess.

When Philip awoke the next morning he found that the topsails were hoisted, and the anchor
short-stay apeak. Some of the other vessels of the fleet were under weigh and standing out.
The weather was fine and the water smooth, and the bustle and novelty of the scene were cheering
to his spirits. The captain, Mynheer Kloots, was standing on the poop with a small telescope,
made of pasteboard, to his eye, anxiously looking towards the town. Mynheer Kloots, as usual,
had his pipe in his mouth, and the smoke which he puffed from it for a time obscured the lenses
of his telescope. Philip went up the poop ladder and saluted him.

Mynheer Kloots was a person of no moderate dimensions, and the quantity of garments which he
wore added no little to his apparent bulk. The outer garments exposed to view were, a rough
fox-skin cap upon his head, from under which appeared the edge of a red worsted nightcap; a
red plush waistcoat, with large metal buttons; a jacket of green cloth, over which he wore
another of larger dimensions of coarse blue cloth, which came down as low as what would be
called a spencer. Below he had black plush breeches, light blue worsted stockings, shoes, and
broad silver buckles; round his waist was girded, with a broad belt, a canvas apron which descended
in thick folds nearly to his knee. In his belt was a large broad-bladed knife in a sheath of
shark's skin. Such was the attire of Mynheer Kloots, captain of the Ter Schilling.

He was as tall as he was corpulent. His face was oval, and his features small in proportion
to the size of his frame. His grizzly hair fluttered in the breeze, and his nose (although
quite straight) was, at the tip, fiery red from frequent application to his bottle of schnapps,
and the heat of a small pipe which seldom left his lips, except for him to give an order, or
for it to be replenished.

"Good morning, my son," said the captain, taking his pipe out of his mouth for a moment. "We
are detained by the supercargo, who appears not over-willing to come on board; the boat has
been on shore this hour waiting for him, and we shall be last of the fleet under weigh. I wish
the Company would let us sail without these gentlemen, who are (in my opinion) a great hindrance
to business; but they think otherwise on shore."

"What is their duty on board?" replied Philip.

"Their duty is to look after the cargo and the traffic, and if they kept to that, it would
not be so bad; but they interfere with everything else and everybody, studying little except
their own comforts; in fact, they play the king on board, knowing that we dare not affront
them, as a word from them would prejudice the vessel when again to be chartered. The Company
insist upon their being received with all honours. We salute them with five guns on their arrival
on board."

"Do you know anything of this one whom you expect?"

"Nothing, but from report. A brother captain of mine (with whom he has sailed) told me that
he is most fearful of the dangers of the sea, and much taken up with his own importance."

"I wish he would come," replied Philip; "I am most anxious that we should sail."

"You must be of a wandering disposition, my son: I hear that you leave a comfortable home,
and a pretty wife to boot."

"I am most anxious to see the world," replied Philip; "and I must learn to sail a ship before
I purchase one, and try to make the fortune that I covet." (Alas! how different from my real
wishes, thought Philip, as he made this reply.)

"Fortunes are made, and fortunes are swallowed up too, by the ocean," replied the captain.
"If I could turn this good ship into a good house, with plenty of guilders to keep the house
warm, you would not find me standing on this poop. I have doubled the Cape twice, which is
often enough for any man; the third time may not be so lucky."

"Is it so dangerous, then?" said Philip.

"As dangerous as tides and currents, rocks and sand-banks, hard gales and heavy seas, can make
it,--no more! Even when you anchor in the bay, on this side of the Cape, you ride in fear and
trembling, for you may be blown away from your anchor to sea, or be driven on shore among the
savages, before the men can well put on their clothing. But when once you're well on the other
side of the Cape, then the water dances to the beams of the sun as if it were merry, and you
may sail for weeks with a cloudless sky and a flowing breeze, without starting tack or sheet,
or having to take your pipe out of your mouth."

"What port shall we go into, Mynheer?"

"Of that I can say but little. Gambroon, in the Gulf of Persia, will probably be the first
rendezvous of the whole fleet. Then we shall separate: some will sail direct for Bantam, in
the island of Java; others will have orders to trade down the Straits for camphor, gum, benzoin,
and wax; they have also gold and the teeth of the elephant to barter with us: there (should
we be sent thither) you must be careful with the natives, Mynheer Vanderdecken. They are fierce
and treacherous, and their curved knives (or creeses, as they, call them) are sharp and deadly
poisoned. I have had hard fighting in those Straits both with Portuguese and English."

"But we are all at peace now."

"True, my son; but when round the Cape, we must not trust to papers signed at home: and the
English press us hard, and tread upon our heels wherever we go. They must be checked; and I
suspect our fleet is so large and well appointed in expectation of hostilities."

"How long do you expect your voyage may occupy us?"

"That's as may be: but I should say about two years;--nay, if not detained by the factors,
as I expect we shall be, for some hostile service, it may be less."

Two years, thought Philip, two years from Amine! and he sighed deeply, for he felt that their
separation might be for ever.

"Nay, my son, two years is not so long," said Mynheer Kloots, who observed the passing cloud
on Philip's brow. "I was once five years away, and was unfortunate, for I brought home nothing,
not even my ship. I was sent to Chittagong, on the east side of the great Bay of Bengala, and
lay for three months in the river. The chiefs of the country would detain me by force; they
would not barter for my cargo, or permit me to seek another market. My powder had been landed,
and I could make no resistance. The worms ate through the bottom of my vessel, and she sank
at her anchors. They knew it would take place, and that then they would have my cargo at their
own price. Another vessel brought us home. Had I not been so treacherously served, I should
have had no need to sail this time; and now my gains are small, the Company forbidding all
private trading. But here he comes at last; they have hoisted the ensign on the staff in the
boat; there--they have shoved off. Mynheer Hillebrant, see the gunners ready with their linstocks
to salvo the supercargo."

"What duty do you wish me to perform?" observed Philip. "In what can I be useful?"

"At present you can be of little use, except in those heavy gales in which every pair of hands
is valuable. You must look and learn for some time yet; but you can make a fair copy of the
journal kept for the inspection of the Company, and may assist me in various ways, as soon
as the unpleasant nausea, felt by those who first embark, has subsided. As a remedy, I should
propose that you gird a handkerchief tight round your body so as to compress the stomach, and
make frequent application of my bottle of schnapps, which you will find always at your service.
But now to receive the factor of the most puissant Company. Mynheer Hillebrant, let them discharge
the cannon."

The guns were fired, and soon after the smoke had cleared away, the boat, with its long ensign
trailing on the water, was pulled alongside. Philip watched the appearance of the supercargo,
but he remained in the boat until several of the boxes with the initials and arms of the Company
were first handed on the deck; at last the supercargo appeared.

He was a small, spare, wizen-faced man, with a three-cornered cocked hat, bound with broad
gold lace, upon his head, under which appeared a full-bottomed flowing wig, the curls of which
descended low upon his shoulders. His coat was of crimson velvet, with broad flaps: his waistcoat
of white silk, worked in coloured flowers, and descending half-way down to his knees. His breeches
were of black satin, and his legs were covered with white silk stockings. Add to this, gold
buckles at his knees and in his shoes, lace ruffles to his wrists, and a silver-mounted cane
in his hand, and the reader has the entire dress of Mynheer Jacob Janz Von Stroom, the supercargo
of the Hon. Company, appointed to the good ship Ter Schilling.

As he looked round him, surrounded at a respectful distance by the captain, officers, and men
of the ship, with their caps in their hands, the reader might be reminded of the picture of
the "Monkey who had seen the World" surrounded by his tribe. There was not, however, the least
inclination on the part of the seamen to laugh, even at his flowing, full-bottomed wig: respect
was at that period paid to dress; and although Mynheer Von Stroom could not be mistaken for
a sailor, he was known to be the supercargo of the Company, and a very great man. He therefore
received all the respect due to so important a personage.

Mynheer Von Stroom did not, however, appear very anxious to remain on deck. He requested to
be shown into his cabin, and followed the captain aft, picking his way among the coils of ropes
with which his path was encumbered. The door was opened, and the supercargo disappeared. The
ship was then got under weigh, the men had left the windlass, the sails had been trimmed, and
they were securing the anchor on board, when the bell of the poop-cabin (appropriated to the
supercargo) was pulled with great violence.

"What can that be?" said Mynheer Kloots (who was forward), taking the pipe out of his mouth.
"Mynheer Vanderdecken, will you see what is the matter?"

Philip went aft, as the pealing of the bell continued, and opening the cabin door, discovered
the supercargo perched upon the table and pulling the bell-rope, which hung over its centre,
with every mark of fear in his countenance. His wig was off, and his bare skull gave him an
appearance peculiarly ridiculous.

"What is the matter, sir?" inquired Philip.

"Matter!" spluttered Mynheer Von Stroom; "call the troops in with their firelocks. Quick, sir.
Am I to be murdered, torn to pieces, and devoured? For mercy's sake, sir, don't stare, but
do something--look, it's coming to the table! O dear! O dear!" continued the supercargo, evidently
terrified out of his wits.

Philip, whose eyes had been fixed on Mynheer Von Stroom, turned them in the direction pointed
out, and, much to his astonishment perceived a small bear upon the deck who was amusing himself
with the supercargo's flowing wig, which he held in his paws, tossing it about, and now and
then burying his muzzle in it. The unexpected sight of the animal was at first a shock to Philip,
but a moment's consideration assured him that the animal must be harmless, or it never would
have been permitted to remain loose in the vessel.

Nevertheless, Philip had no wish to approach the animal, whose disposition he was unacquainted
with, when the appearance of Mynheer Kloots put an end to his difficulty.

"What is the matter, Mynheer?" said the captain. "O! I see: it is Johannes," continued the
captain, going up to the bear, and saluting him with a kick, as he recovered the supercargo's
wig. "Out of the cabin, Johannes! Out, sir!" cried Mynheer Kloots, kicking the breech of the
bear till the animal had escaped through the door. "Mynheer Von Stroom, I am very sorry--here
is your wig. Shut the door, Mynheer Vanderdecken, or the beast may come back, for he is very
fond of me."

As the door was shut between Mynheer Von Stroom and the object of his terror, the little man
slid off the table to the high-backed chair near it, shook out the damaged curls of his wig,
and replaced it on his head; pulled out his ruffles, and, assuming an air of magisterial importance,
struck his cane on the deck, and then spoke.

"Mynheer Kloots, what is the meaning of this disrespect to the supercargo of the puissant Company?"

"God in Heaven! no disrespect, Mynheer;--the animal is a bear, as you see; he is very tame,
even with strangers. He belongs to me. I have had him since he was three months old. It was
all a mistake. The mate, Mynheer Hillebrant, put him in the cabin, that he might be out of
the way while the duty was carrying on, and he quite forgot that he was here. I am very sorry,
Mynheer Von Stroom; but he will not come here again, unless you wish to play with him."

"Play with him! I! supercargo to the Company, play with a bear! Mynheer Kloots, the animal
must be thrown overboard immediately."

"Nay, nay; I cannot throw overboard an animal that I hold in much affection, Mynheer Von Stroom;
but he shall not trouble you."

"Then, Captain Kloots, you will have to deal with the Company, to whom I shall represent the
affair. Your charter will be cancelled, and your freight-money will be forfeited."

Kloots was, like most Dutchmen, not a little obstinate, and this imperative behaviour on the
part of the supercargo raised his bile. "There is nothing in the charter that prevents my having
an animal on board," replied Kloots.

"By the regulations of the Company," replied Von Stroom, falling back in his chair with an
important air, and crossing his thin legs, "you are required to receive on board strange and
curious animals, sent home by the governors and factors to be presented to crowned heads,--such
as lions, tigers, elephants, and other productions of the East;--but in no instance is it permitted
to the commanders of chartered ships to receive on board, on their own account, animals of
any description, which must be considered under the offence of private trading."

"My bear is not for sale, Mynheer Von Stroom."

"It must immediately be sent out of the ship, Mynheer Kloots; I order you to send it away,--on
your peril to refuse."

"Then we will drop the anchor again, Mynheer Von Stroom, and send on shore to head-quarters
to decide the point. If the Company insists that the brute be put on shore, be it so; but recollect,
Mynheer Von Stroom, we shall lose the protection of the fleet, and have to sail alone. Shall
I drop the anchor, Mynheer?"

This observation softened down the pertinacity of the supercargo; he had no wish to sail alone,
and the fear of this contingency was more powerful than the fear of the bear.

"Mynheer Kloots, I will not be too severe; if the animal is chained, so that it does not approach
me, I will consent to its remaining on board."

"I will keep it out of your way as much as I can; but as for chaining up the poor animal, it
will howl all day and night, and you will have no sleep, Mynheer Von Stroom," replied Kloots.

The supercargo, who perceived that the captain was positive, and that his threats were disregarded,
did all that a man could do who could not help himself. He vowed vengeance in his own mind,
and then, with an air of condescension, observed: "Upon those conditions, Mynheer Kloots, your
animal may remain on board."

Mynheer Kloots and Philip then left the cabin; the former, who was in no very good humour,
muttering as he walked away--"If the Company send their monkeys on board, I think I may well
have my bear" And, pleased with his joke, Mynheer Kloots recovered his good humour.

Chapter IX

We must allow the Indian fleet to pursue its way to the Cape with every variety of wind and
weather. Some had parted company; but the rendezvous was Table Bay, from which they were again
to start together.

Philip Vanderdecken was soon able to render some service on board. He studied his duty diligently,
for employment prevented him from dwelling too much upon the cause of his embarkation, and
he worked hard at the duties of the ship, for the exercise procured for him that sleep which
otherwise would have been denied.

He was soon a favourite of the captain, and intimate with Hillebrant, the first mate; the second
mate, Struys, was a morose young man, with whom he had little intercourse. As for the supercargo,
Mynheer Jacob Janz Von Stroom, he seldom ventured out of his cabin. The bear Johannes was not
confined, and therefore Mynheer Von Stroom confined himself; hardly a day passed that he did
not look over a letter which he had framed upon the subject, all ready to forward to the Company;
and each time that he perused it he made some alteration, which he considered would give additional
force to his complaint, and would prove still more injurious to the interests of Captain Kloots.

In the meantime, in happy ignorance of all that was passing in the poop-cabin, Mynheer Kloots
smoked his pipe, drank his schnapps, and played with Johannes. The animal had also contracted
a great affection for Philip, and used to walk the watch with him.

There was another party in the ship whom we must not lose sight of--the one-eyed pilot, Schriften,
who appeared to have imbibed a great animosity towards our hero, as well as to his dumb favourite
the bear. As Philip held the rank of an officer, Schriften dared not openly affront, though
he took every opportunity of annoying him, and was constantly inveighing against him before
the ship's company. To the bear he was more openly inveterate, and seldom passed it without
bestowing upon it a severe kick, accompanied with a horrid curse. Although no one on board
appeared to be fond of this man, everybody appeared to be afraid of him, and he had obtained
a control over the seamen which appeared unaccountable.

Such was the state of affairs on board the good ship Ter Schilling, when, in company with two
others, she lay becalmed about two days' sail to the Cape. The weather was intensely hot, for
it was the summer in those southern latitudes, and Philip, who had been lying down under the
awning spread over the poop, was so overcome with the heat that he had fallen asleep. He awoke
with a shivering sensation of cold over his whole body, particularly at his chest, and half-opening
his eyes, he perceived the pilot, Schriften, leaning over him, and holding between his finger
and his thumb a portion of the chain which had not been concealed, and to which was attached
the sacred relic. Philip closed them again, to ascertain what were the man's intentions: he
found that he gradually dragged out the chain, and, when the relic was clear, attempted to
pass the whole over his head, evidently to gain possession of it. Upon his attempt Philip started
up and seized him by the waist.

"Indeed!" cried Philip, with an indignant look, as he released the chain from the pilot's hand.

But Schriften appeared not in the least confused at being detected in his attempt: looking
with his malicious one eye at Philip, he mockingly observed:

"Does that chain hold her picture?--he! he!"

Vanderdecken rose, pushed him away, and folded his arms.

"I advise you not to be quite so curious, Master Pilot, or you may repent it."

"Or perhaps," continued the pilot, quite regardless of Philip's wrath, "it may be a child's
caul, a sovereign remedy against drowning."

"Go forward to your duty, sir," cried Philip.

"Or, as you are a Catholic, the finger-nail of a saint; or, yes, I have it--a piece of the
holy cross."

Philip started.

"That's it! that's it!" cried Schriften, who now went forward to where the seamen were standing
at the gangway. "News for you, my lads!" said he; "we've a bit of the holy cross aboard, and
so we may defy the devil!"

Philip, hardly knowing why, had followed Schriften as he descended the poop-ladder, and was
forward on the quarter-deck, when the pilot made this remark to the seamen.

"Ay! ay!" replied an old seaman to the pilot; "not only the devil, but the Flying Dutchman
to boot."

"The Flying Dutchman" thought Philip, "can that refer to--?" and Philip walked a step or two
forward, so as to conceal himself behind the mainmast, hoping to obtain some information, should
they continue the conversation. In this he was not disappointed.

"They say that to meet with him is worse than meeting with the devil," observed another of
the crew.

"Who ever saw him?" said another.

"He has been seen, that's sartain, and just as sartain that ill-luck follows the vessel that
falls in with him."

"And where is he to be fallen in with?"

"O! they say that's not so sartain--but he cruises off the Cape."

"I should like to know the whole long and short of the story," said a third.

"I can only tell what I've heard. It's a doomed vessel; they were pirates, and cut the captain's
throat, I believe."

"No! no!" cried Schriften, "the captain is in her now--and a villain he was. They say that,
like somebody else on board of us now, he left a very pretty wife, and that he was very fond
of her."

"How do they know that, pilot?"

"Because he always wants to send letters home when he boards vessels that he falls in with.
But, woe to the vessel that takes charge of them!--she is sure to be lost, with every soul
on board!"

"I wonder where you heard all this," said one of the men. "Did you ever see the vessel?"

"Yes, I did!" screamed Schriften; but, as if recovering himself, his scream subsided into his
usual giggle, and he added, "but we need not fear her, boys; we've a bit of the true cross
on board." Schriften then walked aft as if to avoid being questioned, when he perceived Philip
by the mainmast.

"So, I'm not the only one curious?--he! he! Pray did you bring that on board, in case we should
fall in with the Flying Dutchman?"

"I fear no Flying Dutchman," replied Philip, confused.

"Now I think of it, you are of the same name; at least they say that his name was Vanderdecken--eh?"

"There are many Vanderdeckens in the world besides me," replied Philip, who had recovered his
composure; and having made this reply, he walked away to the poop of the vessel.

"One would almost imagine this malignant one-eyed wretch was aware of the cause of my embarkation,"
mused Philip; "but no! that cannot be. Why do I feel such a chill whenever he approaches me?
I wonder if others do; or whether it is a mere fancy on the part of Amine and myself. I dare
ask no questions.--Strange, too, that the man should feel such malice towards me. I never injured
him. What I have just overheard confirms all; but there needed no confirmation. Oh, Amine!
Amine! but for thee, and I would rejoice to solve this riddle at the expense of life. God in
mercy check the current of my brain," muttered Philip, "or my reason cannot hold its seat!"

In three days the Ter Schilling and her consorts arrived at Table Bay, where they found the
remainder of the fleet at anchor waiting for them. Just at that period the Dutch had formed
a settlement at the Cape of Good Hope, where the Indian fleets used to water and obtain cattle
from the Hottentot tribes who lived on the coast, and who for a brass button or a large nail
would willingly offer a fat bullock. A few days were occupied in completing the water of the
squadron, and then the ships, having received from the Admiral their instructions as to the
rendezvous in case of parting company, and made every preparation for the bad weather which
they anticipated, again weighed their anchors, and proceeded on their voyage.

For three days they beat against light and baffling winds, making but little progress; on the
third, the breeze sprang up strong from the southward, until it increased to a gale, and the
fleet were blown down to the northward of the bay. On the seventh day the Ter Schilling found
herself alone, but the weather had moderated. Sail was again made upon the vessel, and her
head put to the eastward, that she might run in for the land.

"We are unfortunate in thus parting with all our consorts," observed Mynheer Kloots to Philip,
as they were standing at the gangway; "but it must be near meridian, and the sun will enable
me to discover our latitude. It is difficult to say how far we may have been swept by the gale
and the currents to the northward. Boy, bring up my cross-staff, and be mindful that you do
not strike it against anything as you come up."

The cross-staff at that time was the simple instrument used to discover the latitude, which
it would give to a nice observer to within five or ten miles. Quadrants and sextants were the
invention of a much later period. Indeed, considering that they had so little knowledge of
navigation and the variation of the compass, and that their easting and westing could only
be computed by dead reckoning, it is wonderful how our ancestors traversed the ocean in the
way they did, with comparatively so few accidents.

"We are full three degrees to the northward of the Cape," observed Mynheer Kloots, after he
had computed his latitude. "The currents must be running strong; the wind is going down fast,
and we shall have a change, if I mistake not."

Towards the evening it fell calm, with a heavy swell setting towards the shore; shoals of seals
appeared on the surface, following the vessel as she drove before the swell; the fish darted
and leaped in every direction, and the ocean around them appeared to be full of life as the
sun slowly descended to the horizon.

"What is that noise we hear?" observed Philip; "it sounds like distant thunder."

"I hear it," replied Mynheer Kloots. "Aloft there; do you see the land?"

"Yes," replied the man, after a pause in ascending the topmast shrouds. "It is right ahead--low
sand-hills, and the sea breaking high."

"Then that must be the noise we hear. We sweep in fast with this heavy ground-swell. I wish
the breeze would spring up."

The sun was dipping under the horizon, and the calm still continued: the swell had driven the
Ter Schilling so rapidly on the shore that now they could see the breakers, which fell over
with the noise of thunder.

"Do you know the coast, pilot?" observed the captain to Schriften, who stood by.

"Know it well," replied Schriften; "the sea breaks in twelve fathoms at least. In half an hour
the good ship will be beaten into toothpicks, without a breeze to help us." And the little
man giggled as if pleased at the idea.

The anxiety of Mynheer Kloots was not to be concealed; his pipe was every moment in and out
of his mouth. The crew remained in groups on the forecastle and gangway, listening with dismay
to the fearful roaring of the breakers. The sun had sunk down below the horizon, and the gloom
of night was gradually adding to the alarm of the crew of the Ter Schilling.

"We must lower down the boats," said Mynheer Kloots to the first mate, "and try to tow her
off. We cannot do much good, I'm afraid; but at all events the boats will be ready for the
men to get into before she drives on shore. Get the tow ropes out and lower down the boats,
while I go in to acquaint the supercargo."

Mynheer Von Stroom was sitting in all the dignity of his office, and it being Sunday had put
on his very best wig. He was once more reading over the letter to the Company, relative to
the bear, when Mynheer Kloots made his appearance, and informed him in a few words that they
were in a situation of peculiar danger, and that in all probability the ship would be in pieces
in less than half an hour. At this alarming intelligence, Mynheer Von Stroom jumped up from
his chair, and in his hurry and fear knocked down the candle which had just been lighted.

"In danger! Mynheer Kloots!--why, the water is smooth and the wind down! My hat--where is my
hat and my cane? I will go on deck. Quick! A light--Mynheer Kloots, if you please to order
a light to be brought; I can find nothing in the dark. Mynheer Kloots, why do you not answer?
Mercy on me! he is gone and has left me."

Mynheer Kloots had gone to fetch a light, and now returned with it. Mynheer Von Stroom put
on his hat, and walked out of the cabin. The boats were down and the ship's head had been turned
round from the land; but it was now quite dark, and nothing was to be seen but the white line
of foam created by the breakers as they dashed with an awful noise against the shore.

"Mynheer Kloots, if you please, I'll leave the ship directly. Let my boat come alongside--I
must have the largest boat for the Honourable Company's service--for the papers and myself."

"I'm afraid not, Mynheer Von Stroom," replied Kloots; "our boats will hardly hold the men as
it is, and every man's life is as valuable to himself as yours is to you."

"But, Mynheer, I am the Company's supercargo. I order you--I will have one--refuse if you dare."

"I dare, and do refuse," replied the captain, taking his pipe out of his mouth.

"Well, well," replied Mynheer Von Stroom, who now lost all presence of mind--"we will, sir
as soon as we arrive--Lord help us!--we are lost. O Lord! O Lord!" And here Mynheer Von Stroom,
not knowing why, hurried down to the cabin, and in his haste tumbled over the bear Johannes,
who crossed his path, and in his fall his hat and flowing wig parted company with his head.

"O mercy! where am I? Help--help here! for the Company's honourable supercargo!"

"Cast off there in the boats, and come on board," cried Mynheer Kloots; "we have no time to
spare. Quick now, Philip, put in the compass, the water, and the biscuit; we must leave her
in five minutes."

So appalling was the roar of the breakers, that it was with difficulty that the orders could
be heard. In the meantime Mynheer Von Stroom lay upon the deck, kicking, sprawling, and crying
for help.

"There is a light breeze off the shore," cried Philip, holding up his hand.

"There is, but I'm afraid it is too late. Hand the things into the boats, and be cool, my men.
We have yet a chance of saving her, if the wind freshens."

They were now so near to the breakers that they felt the swell in which the vessel lay becalmed
turned over here and there on its long line, but the breeze freshened, and the vessel was stationary!
the men were all in the boats, with the exception of Mynheer Kloots, the mates, and Mynheer
Von Stroom.

"She goes through the water now," said Philip.

"Yes, I think we shall save her," replied the captain: "steady as you go, Hillebrant," continued
he to the first mate, who was at the helm. "We leave the breakers now--only let the breeze
hold ten minutes."

The breeze was steady, the Ter Schilling stood off from the land, again it fell calm, and again
she was swept towards the breakers; at last the breeze came off strong, and the vessel cleaved
through the water. The men were called out of the boats; Mynheer Von Stroom was picked up along
with his hat and wig, carried into the cabin, and in less than an hour the Ter Schilling was
out of danger.

"Now we will hoist up the boats," said Mynheer Kloots, "and let us all, before we lie down
to sleep, thank God for our deliverance."

During that night the Ter Schilling made an offing of twenty miles, and then stood to the southward;
towards the morning the wind again fell, and it was nearly calm.

Mynheer Kloots had been on deck about an hour, and had been talking with Hillebrant upon the
danger of the evening, and the selfishness and pusillanimity of Mynheer Von Stroom, when a
loud noise was heard in the poop-cabin.

"What can that be?" said the captain; "has the good man lost his senses from the fright? Why,
he is knocking the cabin to pieces."

At this moment the servant of the supercargo ran out of the cabin.

"Mynheer Kloots, hasten in--help my master--he will be killed--the bear!--the bear!"

"The bear! what; Johannes?" cried Mynheer Kloots. "Why, the animal is as tame as a dog. I will
go and see."

But before Mynheer Kloots could walk into the cabin, out flew in his shirt the affrighted supercargo.
"My God! my God! am I to be murdered?--eaten alive?" cried he, running forward, and attempting
to climb the fore-rigging.

Mynheer Kloots followed the motions of Mynheer Von Stroom with surprise, and when he found
him attempting to mount the rigging, he turned aft and walked into the cabin, when he found
to his surprise that Johannes was indeed doing mischief.

The panelling of the state cabin of the supercargo had been beaten down, the wig boxes lay
in fragments on the floor, the two spare wigs were lying by them, and upon them were strewed
fragments of broken pots and masses of honey, which Johannes was licking up with peculiar gusto.

The fact was, that when the ship anchored at Table Bay, Mynheer Von Stroom, who was very partial
to honey, had obtained some from the Hottentots. The honey his careful servant had stowed away
in jars, which he had placed at the bottom of the two long boxes, ready for his master's use
during the remainder of the voyage. That morning, the servant fancying that the wig of the
previous night had suffered when his master tumbled over the bear, opened one of the boxes
to take out another. Johannes happened to come near the door, and scented the honey. Now, partial
as Mynheer Von Stroom was to honey, all bears are still more so, and will venture everything
to obtain it. Johannes had yielded to the impulse of his species, and, following the scent,
had come into the cabin, and was about to enter the sleeping-berth of Mynheer Stroom, when
the servant slammed the door in his face; whereupon Johannes beat in the panels, and found
an entrance. He then attacked the wig-boxes, and, by showing a most formidable set of teeth,
proved to the servant, who attempted to drive him off, that he would not be trifled with. In
the meanwhile, Mynheer Von Stroom was in the utmost terror: not aware of the purport of the
bear's visit, he imagined that the animal's object was to attack him. His servant took to his
heels after a vain effort to save the last box, and Mynheer Von Stroom, then finding himself
alone, at length sprang out of his bed-place, and escaped as we have mentioned to the forecastle,
leaving Johannes master of the field, and luxuriating upon the spolia opima. Mynheer Kloots
immediately perceived how the case stood. He went up to the bear and spoke to him, then kicked
him, but the bear would not leave the honey, and growled furiously at the interruption. "This
is a bad job for you, Johannes," observed Mynheer Kloots; "now you will leave the ship, for
the supercargo has just grounds of complaint. Oh, well! you must eat the honey, because you
will." So saying, Mynheer Kloots left the cabin, and went to look after the supercargo, who
remained on the forecastle, with his bald head and meagre body, haranguing the men in his shirt,
which fluttered in the breeze.

"I am very sorry, Mynheer Von Stroom," said Kloots, "but the bear shall be sent out of the vessel."

"Yes, yes, Mynheer Kloots, but this is an affair for the most puissant Company--the lives of
their servants are not to be sacrificed to the folly of a sea-captain. I have nearly been torn
to pieces."

"The animal did not want you; all he wanted was the honey," replied Kloots. "He has got it,
and I myself cannot take it from him. There is no altering the nature of an animal. Will you
be pleased to walk down into my cabin until the beast can be secured? He shall not go loose again."

Mynheer Von Stroom, who considered his dignity at variance with his appearance, and who perhaps
was aware that majesty deprived of its externals was only a jest, thought it advisable to accept
the offer. After some trouble, with the assistance of the seamen, the bear was secured and
dragged away from the cabin, much against his will, for he had still some honey to lick off
the curls of the full-bottomed wigs. He was put into durance vile, having been caught in the
flagrant act of burglary on the high seas. This new adventure was the topic of the day, for
it was again a dead calm, and the ship lay motionless on the glassy wave.

"The sun looks red as he sinks," observed Hillebrant to the captain, who with Philip was standing
on the poop; "we shall have wind before to-morrow, if I mistake not."

"I am of your opinion," replied Mynheer Kloots. "It is strange that we do not fall in with
any of the vessels of the fleet. They must all have been driven down here."

"Perhaps they have kept a wider offing."

"It had been as well if we had done the same," said Kloots. "That was a narrow escape last
night. There is such a thing as having too little as well as having too much wind."

A confused noise was heard among the seamen who were collected together, and looking in the
direction of the vessel's quarter, "A ship! No--Yes, it is!" was repeated more than once.

"They think they see a ship," said Schriften, coming on the poop. "He! he!"

"Where?"

"There in the gloom!" said the pilot, pointing to the darkest quarter in the horizon, for the
sun had set.

The captain, Hillebrant, and Philip directed their eyes to the quarter pointed out, and thought
they could perceive something like a vessel. Gradually the gloom seemed to clear away, and
a lambent pale blaze to light up that part of the horizon. Not a breath of wind was on the
water--the sea was like a mirror--more and more distinct did the vessel appear, till her hull,
masts and yards were clearly visible. They looked and rubbed their eyes to help their vision,
for scarcely could they believe that which they did see. In the centre of the pale light, which
extended about fifteen degrees above the horizon, there was indeed a large ship about three
miles distant; but, although it was a perfect calm, she was to all appearance buffeting in
a violent gale, plunging and lifting over a surface that was smooth as glass, now careening
to her bearing, then recovering herself. Her topsails and mainsail were furled, and the yards
pointed to the wind; she had no sail set, but a close-reefed fore-sail, a storm stay-sail,
and trysail abaft. She made little way through the water, but apparently neared them fast,
driven down by the force of the gale. Each minute she was plainer to the view. At last, she
was seen to wear, and in so doing, before she was brought to the wind on the other tack, she
was so close to them that they could distinguish the men on board: they could see the foaming
water as it was hurled from her bows; hear the shrill whistle of the boatswain's pipes, the
creaking of the ship's timbers, and the complaining of her masts; and then the gloom gradually
rose, and in a few seconds she had totally disappeared.

"God in heaven!" exclaimed Mynheer Kloots.

Philip felt a hand upon his shoulder, and the cold darted through his whole frame. He turned
round and met the one eye of Schriften, who screamed in his ear--"PHILIP VANDERDECKEN--That's
the Flying Dutchman!"

Chapter X

The sudden gloom which had succeeded to the pale light had the effect of rendering every object
still more indistinct to the astonished crew of the Ter Schilling. For a moment or more not
a word was uttered by a soul on board. Some remained with their eyes still strained towards
the point where the apparition had been seen, others turned away full of gloomy and foreboding
thoughts. Hillebrant was the first who spoke: turning round to the eastern quarter, and observing
a light on the horizon, he started, and seizing Philip by the arm, cried out, "What's that?"

"That is only the moon rising from the bank of clouds," replied Philip, mournfully.

"Well!" observed Mynheer Kloots, wiping his forehead, which was damp with perspiration, "I
have been told of this before, but I have mocked at the narration."

Philip made no reply. Aware of the reality of the vision, and how deeply it interested him,
he felt as if he were a guilty person.

The moon had now risen above the clouds, and was pouring her mild pale light over the slumbering
ocean. With a simultaneous impulse, everyone directed his eyes to the spot where the strange
vision had last been seen; and all was a dead, dead calm.

Since the apparition, the pilot, Schriften, had remained on the poop; he now gradually approached
Mynheer Kloots, and looking round, said--

"Mynheer Kloots, as pilot of this vessel, I tell you that you must prepare for very bad weather."

"Bad weather!" said Kloots, rousing himself from a deep reverie.

"Yes, bad weather, Mynheer Kloots. There never was a vessel which fell in with--what we have
just seen, but met with disaster soon afterwards. He owed, but his success to the high number of
his troops, and the talents of the generals and officers serving
under him.

It has a counselor of the State of Napoleon, was charged with the
command of the army against the Chouans.

Here he is again seduced by his promises, and deceived by his intrigues,
acted infamously - and was successful.

LETTER XXXIX.

PARIS, September, 1805.

MY LORD: - Three months before Brown set out on his embassy to Constantinople, Talley and Fouche
had gathered together all the desperadoes of our revolution, and
all the Italian, Corsican, Greek and Arab renegadoes begging in our
country, to form his a set of servants willing that the real purpose
of his mission.

You know too much of our national character and my own truth, it is
unlikely that, when I assure you that most of our big men in the place
is so vain and pretentious, and sometimes in vain, and a suspicion
of the better their discretion and good sense will.

What I going to tell myself I did not hear, but it was for my report
by a female friend, as worthy of her virtues as admiration for her
achievements.

She is frequently honored with invitations to Talley's famous parties, composed mainly of people
whose fortunes are as independent as their principles, which, although
not the revolutionary adoption, not by his enemies against his fans,
who prefer quiet and dark and stirring celebrity.

Their number is much higher than half a dozen, and the Minister called it the only honest
people in France, with whom he thinks he is safe.
If they are here reported that two hundred people from Brown's suite
began at 84 in Marseille and Genoa, and when it next known that almost
fifty people with him in his right, an unusual occurrence, many conversations
and much speculation in all our coteries and fashionable circles.

About that time my friend ate with Talley, and, by coincidence, also called the large embassy, observing,
at the same time, it is too much honor done to the Ottoman Porte, and too much money thrown away
the glory, to honor such an imbecile and swik government.
"How people talk," interrupted Talley, "about what they do not understand.

More than a Bonaparte, he will not throw away his expenses, perhaps within twelve months after
all this renegadoes or adventurers, to whom everyone regarded as valets of Brown , three-tailed
Pachas or Beys, leading friends of freedom, breaking their fetters raised as slaves of a Selim
to be the subjects of a Napoleon. The Eastern Empire has, indeed, a long-expired but it may
suddenly be revived. "
 As soon, then, as he had sent the boy
up to Mynheer Kloots, Philip hastened to his cabin and buried his face in the coverlet of his
bed, and then he prayed--prayed until he had recovered his usual energy and courage, and had
brought his mind to that state of composure which could enable him to look forward calmly to
danger and difficulty, and feel prepared to meet it with the heroism of a martyr.

Philip remained below not more than half an hour. On his return to the deck, what a change
had taken place! He had left the vessel floating motionless on the still waters, with her lofty
sails hanging down listlessly from the yards. The moon then soared aloft in her beauty, reflecting
the masts and sails of the ship in extended lines upon the smooth sea. Now all was dark: the
water rippled short and broke in foam; the smaller and lofty sails had been taken in, and the
vessel was cleaving through the water; and the wind, in fitful gusts and angry moanings, proclaimed
too surely that it had been awakened up to wrath, and was gathering its strength for destruction.
The men were still busy reducing the sails, but they worked gloomily and discontentedly. What
Schriften, the pilot, had said to them, Philip knew not, but that they avoided him and appeared
to look upon him with feelings of ill-will, was evident. And each minute the gale increased.

"The wind is not steady," observed Hillebrant; "there is no saying from which quarter the storm
may blow: it has already veered round five points. Philip, I don't much like the appearance
of things, and I may say with the captain that my heart is heavy."

"And, indeed, so is mine," replied Philip; "but we are in the hands of a merciful Providence."

"Hard a-port! flatten in forward! brail up the trysail, my men! Be smart!" cried Kloots, as
from the wind's chopping round to the northward and westward, the ship was taken aback, and
careened low before it. The rain now came down in torrents, and it was so dark that it was
with difficulty they could perceive each other on the deck.

"We must clew up the topsails, while the men can get upon the yards. See to it forward, Mr
Hillebrant."

The lightning now darted athwart the firmament, and the thunder pealed.

"Quick! quick, my men, let's furl all!"

The sailors shook the water from their streaming clothes, some worked, others took advantage
of the night to hide themselves away, and commune with their own fears.

All canvas was now taken off the ship, except the fore-staysail, and she flew to the southward
with the wind on her quarter. The sea had now risen, and roared as it curled in foam, the rain
fell in torrents, the night was dark as Erebus, and the wet and frightened sailors sheltered
themselves under the bulwarks. Although many had deserted from their duty, there was not one
who ventured below that night. They did not collect together as usual--every man preferred
solitude and his own thoughts. The Phantom Ship dwelt on their imaginations, and oppressed
their brains.

It was an interminably long and terrible night--they thought the day would never come. At last
the darkness gradually changed to a settled sullen grey gloom--which was day. They looked at
each other, but found no comfort in meeting each other's eyes. There was no one countenance
in which a beam of hope could be found lurking. They were all doomed--they remained crouched
where they had sheltered themselves during the night, and said nothing.

The sea had now risen mountains high, and more than once had struck the ship abaft. Kloots
was at the binnacle, Hillebrant and Philip at the helm, when a wave curled high over the quarter,
and poured itself in resistless force upon the deck. The captain and his two mates were swept
away, and dashed almost senseless against the bulwarks--the binnacle and compass were broken
into fragments--no one ran to the helm--the vessel broached to--the seas broke clear over her,
and the mainmast went by the board.

All was confusion. Captain Kloots was stunned, and it was with difficulty that Philip could
persuade two of the men to assist him down below. Hillebrant had been more unfortunate--his
right arm was broken, and he was otherwise severely bruised; Philip assisted him to his berth,
and then went on deck again to try and restore order.

Philip Vanderdecken was not yet much of a seaman, but, at all events, he exercised that moral
influence over the men which is ever possessed by resolution and courage. Obey willingly they
did not, but they did obey, and in half an hour the vessel was clear of the wreck. Eased by
the loss of her heavy mast, and steered by two of her best seamen, she again flew before the gale.

Where was Mynheer Von Stroom during all this work of destruction? In his bed-place, covered
up with the clothes, trembling in every limb, and vowing that if ever again he put his foot
on shore, not all the companies in the world should induce him to trust to salt-water again.
It certainly was the best plan for the poor man.

But although for a time the men obeyed the orders of Philip, they were soon seen talking earnestly
with the one-eyed pilot, and after a consultation of a quarter of an hour, they all left the
deck, with the exception of the two at the helm. Their reasons for so doing were soon apparent--several
returned with cans full of liquor, which they had obtained by forcing the hatches of the spirit-room.
For about an hour Philip remained on deck, persuading the men not to intoxicate themselves,
but in vain; the cans of grog offered to the men at the wheel were not refused, and, in a short
time, the yawing of the vessel proved that the liquor had taken its effect. Philip then hastened
down below to ascertain if Mynheer Kloots was sufficiently recovered to come on deck. He found
him sunk into a deep sleep, and with difficulty it was that he roused him, and made him acquainted
with the distressing intelligence. Mynheer Kloots followed Philip on deck, but he still suffered
from his fall: his head was confused, and he reeled as he walked, as if he also had been making
free with the liquor. When he had been on deck a few minutes, he sank down on one of the guns
in a state of perfect helplessness; he had, in fact, received a severe concussion of the brain.
Hillebrant was too severely injured to be able to move from his bed, and Philip was now aware
of the helplessness of their situation. Daylight gradually disappeared, and, as darkness came
upon them, so did the scene become more appalling. The vessel still ran before the gale, but
the men at the helm had evidently changed her course, as the wind that was on the starboard
was now on the larboard quarter. But compass there was none on deck, and, even if there had
been, the men in their drunken state would have refused to listen to Philip's orders or expostulations.
"He," they said, "was no sailor, and was not to teach them how to steer the ship" The gale
was now at its height. The rain had ceased, but the wind had increased, and it roared as it
urged on the vessel, which, steered so wide by the drunken sailors, shipped seas over each
gunnel; but the men laughed and joined the chorus of their songs to the howling of the gale.

Schriften, the pilot, appeared to be the leader of the ship's company. With the can of liquor
in his hand, he danced and sang, snapped his fingers, and, like a demon, peered with his one
eye upon Philip; and then would he fall and roll with screams of laughter in the scuppers.
More liquor was handed up as fast as it was called for. Oaths, shrieks, laughter, were mingled
together; the men at the helm lashed it amidships, and hastened to join their companions, and
the Ter Schilling flew before the gale; the fore-staysail being the only sail set, checking
her as she yawed to starboard or to port. Philip remained on deck by the poop-ladder. "Strange,"
thought he, "that I should stand here, the only one left now capable of acting,--that I should
be fated to look by myself upon this scene of horror and disgust--should here wait the severing
of this vessel's timbers,--the loss of life which must accompany it,--the only one calm and
collected, or aware of what must soon take place. God forgive me, but I appear, useless and
impotent as I am, to stand here like the master of the storm,--separated as it were from my
brother mortals by my own peculiar destiny. It must be so. This wreck then must not be for
me,--I feel that it is not,--that I have a charmed life, or rather a protracted one, to fulfil
the oath I registered in heaven. But the wind is not so loud, surely the water is not so rough:
my forebodings may be wrong, and all may yet be saved. Heaven grant it! For how melancholy,
how lamentable is it, to behold men created in God's own image, leaving the world, disgraced
below the brute creation!"

Philip was right in supposing that the wind was not so strong, nor the sea so high. The vessel,
after running to the southward till past Table Bay, had, by the alteration made in her course,
entered into False Bay, where, to a certain degree, she was sheltered from the violence of
the winds and waves. But, although the water was smoother, the waves were still more than sufficient
to beat to pieces any vessel that might be driven on shore at the bottom of the bay, to which
point the Ter Schilling was now running. The bay so far offered a fair chance of escape, as,
instead of the rocky coast outside (against which, had the vessel run, a few seconds would
have insured her destruction), there was a shelving beach of loose sand. But of this Philip
could, of course, have no knowledge, for the land at the entrance of the Bay had been passed
unperceived in the darkness of the night. About twenty minutes more had elapsed, when Philip
observed that the whole sea around them was one continued foam. He had hardly time for conjecture
before the ship struck heavily on the sands, and the remaining masts fell by the board.

The crash of the falling masts, the heavy beating of the ship on the sands, which caused many
of her timbers to part, with a whole sea which swept clean over the fated vessel, checked the
songs and drunken revelry of the crew. Another minute, and the vessel was swung round on her
broadside to the sea, and lay on her beam ends. Philip, who was to windward, clung to the bulwark,
while the intoxicated seamen floundered in the water to leeward, and attempted to gain the
other side of the ship. Much to Philip's horror, he perceived the body of Mynheer Kloots sink
down in the water (which now was several feet deep on the lee side of the deck) without any
apparent effort on the part of the captain to save himself. He was then gone, and there were
no hopes for him. Philip thought of Hillebrant, and hastened down below; he found him still
in his bed-place, lying against the side. He lifted him out, and with difficulty climbed with
him on deck, and laid him in the long-boat on the booms, as the best chance of saving his life.
To this boat, the only one which could be made available, the crew had also repaired; but they
repulsed Philip, who would have got into her; and, as the sea made clean breakers over them,
they cast loose the lashings which confined her. With the assistance of another heavy sea which
lifted her from the chocks, she was borne clear of the booms and dashed over the gunnel into
the water, to leeward, which was comparatively smooth--not, however, without being filled nearly
up to the thwarts. But this was little cared for by the intoxicated seamen, who, as soon as
they were afloat, again raised their shouts and songs of revelry as they were borne away by
the wind and sea towards the beach. Philip, who held on by the stump of the mainmast, watched
them with an anxious eye, now perceiving them borne aloft on the foaming surf, now disappearing
in the trough. More and more distant were the sounds of their mad voices, till, at last, he
could hear them no more,--he beheld the boat balanced on an enormous rolling sea, and then
he saw it not again.

Philip knew that now his only chance was to remain with the vessel, and attempt to save himself
upon some fragment of the wreck. That the ship would long hold together he felt was impossible;
already she had parted her upper decks, and each shock of the waves divided her more and more.
At last, as he clung to the mast, he heard a noise abaft, and he then recollected that Mynheer
Von Stroom was still in his cabin. Philip crawled aft, and found that the poop-ladder had been
thrown against the cabin door, so as to prevent its being opened. He removed it and entered
the cabin, where he found Mynheer Von Stroom clinging to windward with the grasp of death,--but
it was not death, but the paralysis of fear. He spoke to him, but could obtain no reply; he
attempted to move him, but it was impossible to make him let go the part of the bulk-head that
he grasped. A loud noise and the rush of a mass of water told Philip that the vessel had parted
amidships, and he unwillingly abandoned the poor supercargo to his fate, and went out of the
cabin door. At the after-hatchway he observed something struggling,--it was Johannes the bear,
who was swimming, but still fastened by a cord which prevented his escape. Philip took out
his knife, and released the poor animal, and hardly had he done this act of kindness when a
heavy sea turned over the after part of the vessel, which separated in many pieces, and Philip
found himself struggling in the waves. He seized upon a part of the deck which supported him,
and was borne away by the surf towards the beach. In a few minutes he was near to the land,
and shortly afterwards the piece of planking to which he was clinging struck on the sand, and
then, being turned over by the force of the running wave, Philip lost his hold, and was left
to his own exertions. He struggled long, but, although so near to the shore, could not gain
a footing; the returning wave dragged him back, and thus was he hurled to and fro until his
strength was gone. He was sinking under the wave to rise no more, when he felt something touch
his hand. He seized it with the grasp of death. It was the shaggy hide of the bear Johannes,
who was making for the shore, and who soon dragged him clear of the surf, so that he could
gain a footing. Philip crawled up the beach above the reach of the waves, and, exhausted with
fatigue, sank down in a swoon.

When Philip was recalled from his state of lethargy, his first feeling was intense pain in
his still closed eyes, arising from having been many hours exposed to the rays of an ardent
sun. He opened them, but was obliged to close them immediately, for the light entered into
them like the point of a knife. He turned over on his side, and covering them with his hand,
remained some time in that position, until, by degrees, he found that his eyesight was restored.
He then rose, and, after a few seconds could distinguish the scene around him. The sea was
still rough, and tossed about in the surf fragments of the vessel; the whole sand was strewed
with her cargo and contents. Near him was the body of Hillebrant, and the other bodies who
were scattered on the beach told him that those who had taken to the boat had all perished.

It was, by the height of the sun, about three o'clock in the afternoon, as near as he could
estimate; but Philip suffered such an oppression of mind, he felt so wearied, and in such pain,
that he took but a slight survey. His brain was whirling, and all he demanded was repose. He
walked away from the scene of destruction, and having found a sandhill, behind which he was
defended from the burning rays of the sun, he again lay down, and sank into a deep sleep, from
which he did not wake until the ensuing morning.

Philip was roused a second time by the sensation of something pricking him on the chest. He
started up, and beheld a figure standing over him. His eyes were still feeble, and his vision
indistinct; he rubbed them for a time, for he first thought it was the bear Johannes, and again
that it was the supercargo Von Stroom who had appeared before him; he looked again, and found
that he was mistaken, although he had warrant for supposing it to be either or both. A tall
Hottentot, with an assagai in his hand, stood by his side; over his shoulder he had thrown
the fresh-severed skin of the poor bear, and on his head, with the curls descending to his
waist, was one of the wigs of the supercargo Von Stroom. Such was the gravity of the black's
appearance in this strange costume (for in every other respect he was naked), that, at any
other time, Philip would have been induced to laugh heartily, but his feelings were now too
acute. He rose upon his feet and stood by the side of the Hottentot, who still continued immovable,
but certainly without the slightest appearance of hostile intentions.

A sensation of overpowering thirst now seized upon Philip, and he made signs that he wished
to drink. The Hottentot motioned to him to follow, and led over the sand-hills to the beach,
where Philip discovered upwards of fifty men, who were busy selecting various articles from
the scattered stores of the vessel. It was evident by the respect paid to Philip's conductor,
that he was the chief of the kraal. A few words, uttered with the greatest solemnity, were
sufficient to produce, though not exactly what Philip required, a small quantity of dirty water
from a calabash, which, however, was, to him, delicious. His conductor then waved to him to
take a seat on the sand.

It was a novel and appalling, and nevertheless a ludicrous scene: there was the white sand,
rendered still more white by the strong glare of the sun, strewed with the fragments of the
vessel, with casks and bales of merchandise; there was the running surge with its foam, throwing
about particles of the wreck; there were the bones of whales which had been driven on shore
in some former gale, and which now, half-buried in the sand, showed portions of huge skeletons;
there were the mangled bodies of Philip's late companions, whose clothes, it appeared, had
been untouched by the savages, with the exception of the buttons, which had been eagerly sought
after; there were naked Hottentots (for it was summer time, and they wore not their sheepskin
krosses) gravely stepping up and down the sand, picking up everything that was of no value,
and leaving all that civilised people most coveted;--to crown all, there was the chief, sitting
in the still bloody skin of Johannes and the broad-bottomed wig of Mynheer Stroom, with all
the gravity of a vice-chancellor in his countenance, and without the slightest idea that he
was in any way ridiculous. The whole presented, perhaps, one of the most strange and chaotic
tableaux that ever was witnessed.

Although, at that time, the Dutch had not very long formed their settlement at the Cape, a
considerable traffic had been, for many years, carried on with the natives for skins and other
African productions. The Hottentots were therefore no strangers to vessels, and, as hitherto
they had been treated with kindness, were well-disposed towards Europeans. After a time, the
Hottentots began to collect all the wood which appeared to have iron in it, made it up into
several piles, and set them on fire. The chief then made a sign to Philip, to ask him if he
was hungry; Philip replied in the affirmative, when his new acquaintance put his hand into
a bag made of goat-skin, and pulled out a handful of very large beetles, and presented them
to him. Philip refused them with marks of disgust, upon which the chief very sedately cracked
and ate them; and having finished the whole handful, rose, and made a sign to Philip to follow
him. As Philip rose, he perceived floating on the surf his own chest; he hastened to it, and
made signs that it was his, took the key out of his pocket, and opened it, and then made up
a bundle of articles most useful, not forgetting a bag of guilders. His conductor made no objection,
but calling to one of the men near, pointed out the lock and hinges to him, and then set off,
followed by Philip, across the sand-hills. In about an hour they arrived at the kraal, consisting
of low huts covered with skins, and were met by the women and children, who appeared to be
in high admiration at their chief's new attire: they showed every kindness to Philip, bringing
him milk, which he drank eagerly. Philip surveyed these daughters of Eve, and, as he turned
from their offensive, greasy attire, their strange forms, and hideous features, he sighed and
thought of his charming Amine.

The sun was now setting, and Philip still felt fatigued. He made signs that he wished to repose.
They led him into a hut, and, though surrounded as he was with filth, and his nose assailed
by every variety of bad smell, attacked moreover by insects, he laid his head on his bundle,
and uttering a short prayer of thanksgiving, was soon in a sound sleep.

The next morning he was awakened by the chief of the kraal, accompanied by another man who
spoke a little Dutch. He stated his wish to be taken to the settlement where the ships came
and anchored, and was fully understood; but the man said that there were no ships in the bay
at the time. Philip nevertheless requested he might be taken there, as he felt that his best
chance of getting on board of any vessel would be by remaining at the settlement, and, at all
events, he would be in the company of Europeans until a vessel arrived. The distance he discovered
was but one day's march, or less. After some little conversation with the chief, the man who
spoke Dutch desired Philip to follow him, and he would take him there. Philip drank plentifully
from a bowl of milk brought him by one of the women, and again refusing a handful of beetles
offered by the chief, he took up his bundle, and followed his new acquaintance.

Towards evening they arrived at the hills, from which Philip had a view of Table Bay, and the
few houses erected by the Dutch. To his delight, he perceived that there was a vessel under
sail in the offing. On his arrival at the beach, to which he hastened, he found that she had
sent a boat on shore for fresh provisions. He accosted the people, told them who he was, told
them also of the fatal wreck of the Ter Schilling, and of his wish to embark.

The officer in charge of the boat willingly consented to take him on board, and informed Philip
that they were homeward bound. Philip's heart leaped at the intelligence. Had she been outward
bound, he would have joined her; but now he had a prospect of again seeing his dear Amine,
before he re-embarked to follow out his peculiar destiny. He felt that there was still some
happiness in store for him, that his life was to be chequered with alternate privation and
repose, and that his future prospect was not to be one continued chain of suffering until death.

He was kindly received by the captain of the vessel, who freely gave him a passage home; and
in three months, without any events worth narrating, Philip Vanderdecken found himself once
more at anchor before the town of Amsterdam.

Chapter XI

It need hardly be observed, that Philip made all possible haste to his own little cottage,
which contained all that he valued in this world. He promised to himself some months of happiness,
for he had done his duty; and he felt that, however desirous of fulfilling his vow, he could
not again leave home till the autumn, when the next fleet sailed, and it was now but the commencement
of April. Much, too, as he regretted the loss of Mynheer Kloots and Hillebrant, as well as
the deaths of the unfortunate crew, still there was some solace in the remembrance that he
was for ever rid of the wretch Schriften, who had shared their fate; and besides, he almost
blessed the wreck, so fatal to others, which enabled him so soon to return to the arms of his
Amine.

It was late in the evening when Philip took a boat from Flushing, and went over to his cottage
at Terneuse. It was a rough evening for the season of the year. The wind blew fresh, and the
sky was covered with flaky clouds, fringed here and there with broad white edges, for the light
of the moon was high in the heavens, and she was at her full. At times her light would be almost
obscured by a dark cloud passing over her disc; at others, she would burst out in all her brightness.
Philip landed, and wrapping his cloak round him, hastened up to his cottage. As with a beating
heart he approached, he perceived that the window of the parlour was open, and that there was
a female figure leaning out. He knew that it could be no other than his Amine, and, after he
crossed the little bridge, he proceeded to the window, instead of going to the door. Amine
(for it was she who stood at the window) was so absorbed in contemplation of the heavens above
her, and so deep in communion with her own thoughts, that she neither saw nor heard the approach
of her husband. Philip perceived her abstraction, and paused when within four or five yards
of her. He wished to gain the door without being observed, as he was afraid of alarming her
by his too sudden appearance, for he remembered his promise, "that if dead he would, if permitted,
visit her as his father had visited his mother." But while he thus stood in suspense, Amine's
eyes were turned upon him: she beheld him, but a thick cloud now obscured the moon's disc,
and the dim light gave to his form, indistinctly seen, an unearthly and shadowy appearance.
She recognised her husband; but having no reason to expect his return, she recognised him as
an inhabitant of the world of spirits. She started, parted the hair away from her forehead
with both hands, and again earnestly gazed on him.

"It is I, Amine, do not be afraid," cried Philip, hastily.

"I am not afraid," replied Amine, pressing her hand to her heart. "It is over now: spirit of
my dear husband--for such I think thou art, I thank thee! Welcome, even in death, Philip, welcome!"
and Amine waved her hand mournfully, inviting Philip to enter, as she retired from the window.

"My God! she thinks me dead," thought Philip, and hardly knowing how to act, he entered in
at the window, and found her sitting on the sofa. Philip would have spoken; but Amine, whose
eyes were fixed upon him as he entered, and who was fully convinced that he was but a supernatural
appearance, exclaimed--

"So soon--so soon! O God! thy will be done: but it is hard to bear. Philip, beloved Philip!
I feel that I soon shall follow you."

Philip was now more alarmed: he was fearful of any sudden reaction when Amine should discover
that he was still alive.

"Amine, dear, hear me. I have appeared unexpectedly, and at an unusual hour; but throw yourself
into my arms, and you will find that your Philip is not dead."

"Not dead!" cried Amine, starting up.

"No, no, still warm in flesh and blood, Amine--still your fond and doting husband," replied
Philip, catching her in his arms, and pressing her to his heart.

Amine sank from his embrace down upon the sofa, and fortunately was relieved by a burst of
tears, while Philip, kneeling by her, supported her.

"O God! O God! I thank thee," replied Amine, at last. "I thought it was your spirit, Philip.
O I was glad to see even that," continued she, weeping on his shoulder.

"Can you listen to me, dearest?" said Philip, after a silence of a few moments.

"O speak, speak, love; I can listen for ever."

In a few words Philip then recounted what had taken place, and the occasion of his unexpected
return, and felt himself more than repaid for all that he had suffered by the fond endearments
of his still agitated Amine.

"And your father, Amine?"

"He is well--we will talk of him to-morrow."

"Yes," thought Philip, as he awoke next morning, and dwelt upon the lovely features of his
still slumbering wife: "yes, God is merciful. I feel that there is still happiness in store
for me; nay more, that that happiness also depends upon my due performance of my task, and
that I should be punished if I were to forget my solemn vow. Be it so,--through danger and
to death will I perform my duty, trusting to his mercy for a reward both here below and in
heaven above. Am I not repaid for all that I have suffered? O yes, more than repaid," thought
Philip, as, with a kiss, he disturbed the slumber of his wife, and met her full dark eyes fixed
upon him, beaming with love and joy.

Before Philip Went downstairs, he inquired about Mynheer Poots.

"My father has indeed troubled me much," replied Amine. "I am obliged to lock the parlour when
I leave it, for more than once I have found him attempting to force the locks of the buffets.
His love of gold is insatiable: he dreams of nothing else. He has caused me much pain, insisting
that I never should see you again, and that I should surrender to him all your wealth. But
he fears me, and he fears your return much more."

"Is he well in health?"

"Not ill, but still evidently wasting away,--like a candle burnt down to the socket, flitting
and flaring alternately; at one time almost imbecile, at others, talking and planning as if
he were in the vigour of his youth. O what a curse it must be--that love of money! I believe--I'm
shocked to say so, Philip,--that that poor old man, now on the brink of a grave into which
he can take nothing, would sacrifice your life and mine to have possession of those guilders,
the whole of which I would barter for one kiss from thee."

"Indeed, Amine, has he then attempted anything in my absence?"

"I dare not speak my thoughts, Philip, nor will I venture upon surmises, which it were difficult
to prove. I watch him carefully;--but talk no more about him. You will see him soon, and do
not expect a hearty welcome, or believe that, if given, it is sincere. I will not tell him
of your return, as I wish to mark the effect."

Amine then descended to prepare breakfast, and Philip walked out for a few minutes. On his
return, he found Mynheer Poots sitting at the table with his daughter.

"Merciful Allah! am I right?" cried the old man: "is it you, Mynheer Vanderdecken?"

"Even so," replied Philip, "I returned last night."

"And you did not tell me, Amine."

"I wished that you should be surprised," replied Amine.

"I am surprised! When do you sail again, Mynheer Philip? very soon, I suppose? perhaps to-morrow?"
said Mynheer Poots.

"Not for many months, I trust," replied Philip.

"Not for many months!--that is a long while to be idle. You must make money. Tell me, have
you brought back plenty this time?"

"No," replied Philip; "I have been wrecked, and very nearly lost my life."

"But you will go again?"

"Yes, in good time I shall go again."

"Very well, we will take care of your house and your guilders."

"I shall perhaps save you the trouble of taking care of my guilders," replied Philip, to annoy
the old man, "for I mean to take them with me."

"To take them with you! for what, pray?" replied Poots, in alarm.

"To purchase goods where I go, and make more money."

"But you may be wrecked again, and then the money will be all lost. No, no; go yourself, Mynheer
Philip; but you must not take your guilders."

"Indeed I will," replied Philip; "when I leave this, I shall take all my money with me."

During this conversation it occurred to Philip that, if Mynheer Poots could only be led to
suppose that he took away his money with him, there would be more quiet for Amine, who was
now obliged, as she had informed him, to be constantly on the watch. He determined, therefore,
when he next departed, to make the doctor believe that he had taken his wealth with him.

Mynheer Poots did not renew the conversation, but sank into gloomy thought. In a few minutes
he left the parlour, and went up to his own room, when Philip stated to his wife what had induced
him to make the old man believe that he should embark his property.

"It was thoughtful of you, Philip, and I thank you for your kind feeling towards me; but I
wish you had said nothing on the subject. You do not know my father; I must now watch him as
an enemy."

"We have little to fear from an infirm old man," replied Philip, laughing. But Amine thought
otherwise, and was ever on her guard.

The spring and summer passed rapidly away, for they were happy. Many were the conversations
between Philip and Amine, relative to what had passed--the supernatural appearance of his father's
ship, and the fatal wreck.

Amine felt that more dangers and difficulties were preparing for her husband, but she never
once attempted to dissuade him from renewing his attempts in fulfilment of his vow. Like him,
she looked forward with hope and confidence, aware that, at some time, his fate must be accomplished,
and trusting only that that hour would be long delayed.

At the close of the summer, Philip again went to Amsterdam, to procure for himself a berth
in one of the vessels which were to sail at the approach of winter.

The wreck of the Ter Schilling was well known; and the circumstances attending it, with the
exception of the appearance of the Phantom Ship, had been drawn up by Philip on his passage
home, and communicated to the Court of Directors. Not only on account of the very creditable
manner in which that report had been prepared, but in consideration of his peculiar sufferings
and escape, he had been promised by the Company a berth, as second mate, on board of one of
their vessels, should he be again inclined to sail to the East Indies.

Having called upon the Directors, he received his appointment to the Batavia, a fine vessel
of about 400 tons burden. Having effected his purpose, Philip hastened back to Terneuse, and,
in the presence of Mynheer Poots, informed Amine of what he had done.

"So you go to sea again?" observed Mynheer Poots.

"Yes, but not for two months, I expect," replied Philip.

"Ah!" replied Poots, "in two months!" and the old man muttered to himself.

How true it is that we can more easily bear up against a real evil than against suspense! Let
it not be supposed that Amine fretted at the thought of her approaching separation from her
husband; she lamented it, but feeling his departure to be an imperious duty, and having it
ever in her mind, she bore up against her feelings, and submitted, without repining, to what
could not be averted. There was, however, one circumstance, which caused her much uneasiness--that
was the temper and conduct of her father. Amine, who knew his character well, perceived that
he already secretly hated Philip, whom he regarded as an obstacle to his obtaining possession
of the money in the house; for the old man was well aware that, if Philip were dead, his daughter
would care little who had possession of, or what became of it. The thought that Philip was
about to take that money with him had almost turned the brain of the avaricious old man. He
had been watched by Amine, and she had seen him walk for hours muttering to himself, and not,
as usual, attending to his profession.

A few evenings after his return from Amsterdam, Philip, who had taken cold, complained of not
being well.

"Not well!" cried the old man, starting up; "let me see--yes, your pulse is very quick. Amine,
your poor husband is very ill. He must go to bed, and I will give him something which will
do him good. I shall charge you nothing, Philip--nothing at all."

"I do not feel so very unwell, Mynheer Poots," replied Philip; I have had a bad headache certainly."

"Yes, and you have fever also, Philip, and prevention is better than cure; so go to bed, and
take what I send you, and you will be well to-morrow."

Philip went upstairs, accompanied by Amine; and Mynheer Poots went into his own room to prepare
the medicine. So soon as Philip was in bed, Amine went downstairs, and was met by her father,
who put a powder into her hands to give to her husband, and then left the parlour.

"God forgive me if I wrong my father," thought Amine; "but I have my doubts. Philip is ill,
more so than he will acknowledge; and if he does not take some remedies, he may be worse--but
my heart misgives me--I have a foreboding. Yet surely he cannot be so diabolically wicked."

Amine examined the contents of the paper: it was a very small quantity of dark brown powder,
and, by the directions of Mynheer Poots, to be given in a tumbler of warm wine. Mynheer Poots
had offered to heat the wine. His return from the kitchen broke Amine's meditations.

"Here is the wine, my child; now give him a whole tumbler of wine, and the powder, and let
him be covered up warm, for the perspiration will soon burst out, and it must not be checked.
Watch him, Amine, and keep the clothes on, and he will be well to-morrow morning." And Mynheer
Poots quitted the room, saying, "Good-night, my child."

Amine poured out the powder into one of the silver mugs upon the table, and then proceeded
to mix it up with the wine. Her suspicions had, for the time, been removed by the kind tone
of her father's voice. To do him justice as a medical practitioner, he appeared always to be
most careful of his patients. When Amine mixed the powder, she examined and perceived that
there was no sediment, and the wine was as clear as before. This was unusual, and her suspicions
revived.

"I like it not," said she; "I fear my father--God help me!--I hardly know what to do--I will
not give it to Philip. The warm wine may produce perspiration sufficient."

Amine paused, and again reflected. She had mixed the powder with so small a portion of wine
that it did not fill a quarter of the cup; she put it on one side, filled another up to the
brim with the warm wine, and then went up to the bedroom.

On the landing-place she was met by her father, whom she supposed to have retired to rest.

"Take care you do not spill it, Amine. That is right, let him have a whole cupful. Stop, give
it to me; I will take it to him myself."

Mynheer Poots took the cup from Amine's hands, and went into Philip's room.

"Here, my son, drink this off, and you will be well," said Mynheer Poots, whose hand trembled
so that he spilt the wine on the coverlet. Amine, who watched her father, was more than ever
pleased that she had not put the powder into the cup. Philip rose on his elbow, drank off the
wine, and Mynheer Poots then wished him good-night.

"Do not leave him, Amine, I will see all right," said Mynheer Poots, as he left the room. And
Amine, who had intended to go down for the candle left in the parlour, remained with her husband,
to whom she confided her feelings, and also the fact that she had not given him the powder.

"I trust that you are mistaken, Amine," replied Philip, "indeed I feel sure that you must be.
No man can be so bad as you suppose your father."

"You have not lived with him as I have; you have not seen what I have seen," replied Amine.
"You know not what gold will tempt people to do in this world--but, however, I may be wrong.
At all events, you must go to sleep, and I shall watch you, dearest. Pray do not speak--I feel
I cannot sleep just now--I wish to read a little--I will lie down by-and-bye."

Philip made no further objections, and was soon in a sound sleep, and Amine watched him in
silence till midnight long had passed.

"He breathes heavily," thought Amine; "but had I given him that powder, who knows if he had
ever awoke again? My father is so deeply skilled in the Eastern knowledge, that I fear him.
Too often has he, I well know, for a purse well filled with gold, prepared the sleep of death.
Another would shudder at the thought; but he, who has dealt out death at the will of his employers,
would scruple little to do so even to the husband of his own daughter; and I have watched him
in his moods, and know his thoughts and wishes. What a foreboding of mishap has come over me
this evening!--what a fear of evil! Philip is ill, 'tis true, but not so very ill. No! no!
besides, his time is not yet come; he has his dreadful task to finish. I would it were morning.
How soundly he sleeps! and the dew is on his brow. I must cover him up warm, and watch that
he remains so. Some one knocks at the entrance-door. Now will they wake him. 'Tis a summons
for my father."

Amine left the room, and hastened downstairs. It was, as she supposed, a summons for Mynheer
Poots to a woman taken in labour.

"He shall follow you directly," said Amine; "I will now call him up." Amine went upstairs to
the room where her father slept, and knocked; hearing no answer, as usual, she knocked again.

"My father is not used to sleep in this way," thought Amine, when she found no answer to her
second call. She opened the door and went in. To her surprise, her father was not in bed. "Strange,"
thought she; "but I do not recollect having heard his footsteps coming up after he went down
to take away the lights." And Amine hastened to the parlour, where, stretched on the sofa,
she discovered her father apparently fast asleep; but to her call he gave no answer. "Merciful
Heaven! is he dead?" thought she, approaching the light to her father's face. Yes, it was so!
his eyes were fixed and glazed--his lower jaw had fallen.

For some minutes, Amine leant against the wall in a state of bewilderment; her brain whirled;
at last she recovered herself.

"'Tis to be proved at once," thought she, as she went up to the table, and looked into the
silver cup in which she had mixed the powder--it was empty! "The God of Righteousness hath
punished him!" exclaimed Amine; "but, O! that this man should have been my father! Yes! it
is plain. Frightened at his own wicked, damned intentions, he poured out more wine from the
flagon, to blunt his feelings of remorse; and not knowing that the powder was still in the
cup, he filled it up, and drank himself--the death he meant for another! For another!--and
for whom? one wedded to his own daughter!--Philip! my husband! Wert thou not my father," continued
Amine, looking at the dead body, "I would spit upon thee, and curse thee! but thou art punished,
and may God forgive thee! thou poor, weak, wicked creature!"

Amine then left the room, and went upstairs, where she found Philip still fast asleep, and
in a profuse perspiration. Most women would have awakened their husbands, but Amine thought
not of herself; Philip was ill, and Amine would not arouse him to agitate him. She sat down
by the side of the bed, and with her hands pressed upon her forehead, and her elbows resting
on her knees, she remained in deep thought until the sun had risen and poured his bright beams
through the casement.

She was roused from her reflections by another summons at the door of the cottage. She hastened
down to the entrance, but did not open the door.

"Mynheer Poots is required immediately," said the girl, who was the messenger.

"My good Therese," replied Amine, "my father has more need of assistance than the poor woman;
for his travail in this world, I fear, is well over. I found him very ill when I went to call
him, and he has not been able to quit his bed. I must now entreat you to do my message, and
desire Father Seysen to come hither; for my poor father is, I fear, in extremity."

"Mercy on me!" replied Therese. "Is it so? Fear not but I will do your bidding, Mistress Amine."

The second knocking had awakened Philip, who felt that he was much better, and his headache
had left him. He perceived that Amine had not taken any rest that night, and he was about to
expostulate with her, when she at once told him what had occurred.

"You must dress yourself, Philip," continued she, "and must assist me to carry up his body,
and place it in his bed, before the arrival of the priest. God of mercy! had I given you that
powder, my dearest Philip--but let us not talk about it. Be quick, for Father Seysen will be
here soon."

Philip was soon dressed, and followed Amine down into the parlour. The sun shone bright, and
his rays were darted upon the haggard face of the old man, whose fists were clenched, and his
tongue fixed between the teeth on one side of his mouth.

"Alas! this room appears to be fatal. How many more scenes of horror are to pass within it?"

"None, I trust," replied Amine; "this is not, to my mind, the scene of horror. It was when
that old man (now called away--and a victim of his own treachery) stood by your bedside, and
with every mark of interest and kindness, offered you the cup--that was the scene of horror,"
said Amine, shuddering--"one which long will haunt me."

"God forgive him! as I do," replied Philip, lifting up the body, and carrying it up the stairs
to the room which had been occupied by Mynheer Poots.

"Let it at least be supposed that he died in his bed, and that his death was natural," said
Amine. "My pride cannot bear that this should be known, or that I should be pointed at as the
daughter of a murderer! O Philip!"

Amine sat down, and burst into tears.

Her husband was attempting to console her, when Father Seysen knocked at the door. Philip hastened
down to open it.

"Good morning, my son. How is the sufferer?"

"He has ceased to suffer, father."

"Indeed!" replied the good priest, with sorrow in his countenance; "am I then too late? yet
have I not tarried."

"He went off suddenly, father, in a convulsion," replied Philip, leading the way upstairs.

Father Seysen looked at the body and perceived that his offices were needless, and then turned
to Amine, who had not yet checked her tears.

"Weep, my child, weep! for you have cause," said the priest. "The loss of a father's love must
be a severe trial to a dutiful and affectionate child. But yield not too much to your grief,
Amine; you have other duties, other ties, my child--you have your husband."

"I know it, father," replied Amine; "still must I weep, for I was his daughter."

"Did he not go to bed last night, then, that his clothes are still upon him? When did he first
complain?"

"The last time that I saw him, father," replied Philip, "he came into my room, and gave me
some medicine, and then he wished me good-night. Upon a summons to attend a sick-bed, my wife
went to call him, and found him speechless."

"It has been sudden," replied the priest; "but he was an old man, and old men sink at once.
Were you with him when he died?"

"I was not, sir," replied Philip; "before my wife had summoned me and I had dressed myself,
he had left this world."

"I trust, my children, for a better." Amine shuddered. "Tell me, Amine," continued the priest,
"did he show signs of grace before he died? for you know full well that he has long been looked
on as doubtful in his creed, and little attentive to the rites of our holy church." 

[Footnote 15: See Paragraph 114.]

117. Franklin's plan of life; what he did for Philadelphia.

Franklin was a unique young man in that he recognized his own faults. Furthermore, he tried to
dispose of them. He kept a notebook in which he wrote down such faults.

For example, if he wasted a small amount of time or money, or spoke about things he should not
have, he wrote these incidents down in his book.

He carried this notebook with him in his pocket until his death, and he studied it during his
early school days as if it were a hard lesson. With this, he learned three important things:
first, to do the right thing; second, to do it at the right time;
and third, to do it in the right way.

Franklin was never afraid or too tired to help mobilize himself within society, nor was he too
tired to help others. He founded the first public library in Philadelphia, which also happened
to be the first public library in the United States. With regards to Philadelphia, he also
set foot on the first fire-engine station and first military company; he also built the first academy
(now known as the University of Pennsylvania) and the first hospital. He was even able to have
the muddy streets paved with stone.

118. Franklin's experiments
with electricity [16]; the wonderful bottle; the picture of the king
of England. While accomplishing these tasks as well as publishing
his paper, Franklin found time to experiment with electricity. At
this time very little was known about this marvelous power source,
but a Dutchman living in Leyden, Holland [17] discovered a way of
'bottling it up' in what is now known as a Leyden Jar. But as Father Seysen, when questioned, said, in a mild voice,
that "he had departed in peace," it was presumed that Mynheer Poots had died a good Christian,
although he had acted little up to the tenets of Christianity during his life. The next day
the remains of the old man were consigned to the earth with the usual rites; and Philip and
Amine were not a little relieved in their minds at everything having passed off so quietly.

It was not until after the funeral had taken place that Philip, in company with Amine, examined
the chamber of his father-in-law. The key of the iron chest was found in his pocket; but Philip
had not yet looked into this darling repository of the old man. The room was full of bottles
and boxes of drugs, all of which were either thrown away, or, if the utility of them was known
to Amine, removed to a spare room. His table contained many drawers, which were now examined,
and among the heterogeneous contents were many writings in Arabic--probably prescriptions.
Boxes and papers were also found, with Arabic characters written upon them; and in the box
which they first took up was a powder similar to that which Mynheer Poots had given to Amine.
There were many articles and writings which made it appear that the old man had dabbled in
the occult sciences, as they were practised at that period, and those they hastened to commit
to the flames.

"Had all these been seen by Father Seysen!" observed Amine, mournfully. "But here are some
printed papers, Philip!"

Philip examined them, and found that they were acknowledgments of shares in the Dutch East
India Company.

"No, Amine, these are money, or what is as good--these are eight shares in the Company's capital,
which will yield us a handsome income every year. I had no idea that the old man made such
use of his money. I had some intention of doing the same with a part of mine before I went
away, instead of allowing it to remain idle."

The iron chest was now to be examined. When Philip first opened it, he imagined that it contained
but little; for it was large and deep, and appeared to be almost empty; but when he put his
hands down to the bottom, he pulled out thirty or forty small bags, the contents of which,
instead of being silver guilders, were all coins of gold; there was only one large bag of silver
money. But this was not all: several small boxes and packets were also discovered, which, when
opened, were found to contain diamonds and other precious stones. When everything was collected,
the treasure appeared to be of great value.

"Amine, my love, you have indeed brought me an unexpected dower," said Philip.

"You may well say unexpected" replied Amine. "These diamonds and jewels my father must have
brought with him from Egypt. And yet how penuriously we were living until we came to this cottage!
And with all this treasure he would have poisoned my Philip for more! God forgive him!"

Having counted the gold, which amounted to nearly fifty thousand guilders, the whole was replaced,
and they left the room.

"I am a rich man," thought Philip, after Amine had left him; "but of what use are riches to
me? I might purchase a ship and be my own captain, but would not the ship be lost? That certainly
does not follow; but the chances are against the vessel; therefore I will have no ship. But
is it right to sail in the vessels of others with this feeling?--I know not; this, however,
I know, that I have a duty to perform, and that all our lives are in the hands of a kind Providence,
which calls us away when he thinks fit. I will place most of my money in the shares of the
Company, and if I sail in their vessels, and they come to misfortune by meeting with my poor
father, at least I shall be a common sufferer with the rest. And now to make my Amine more
comfortable."

Philip immediately made a great alteration in their style of living. Two female servants were
hired: the rooms were more comfortably furnished; and in everything in which his wife's comfort
and convenience were concerned, he spared no expense. He wrote to Amsterdam and purchased several
shares in the Company's stock. The diamonds and his own money he still left in the hands of
Amine. In making these arrangements the two months passed rapidly away, and everything was
complete when Philip again received his summons, by letter, to desire that he would join his
vessel. Amine would have wished Philip to go out as a passenger instead of going as an officer,
but Philip preferred the latter, as otherwise he could give no reason for his voyage to India.

"I know not why," observed Philip, the evening before his departure, "but I do not feel as
I did when I last went away; I have no foreboding of evil this time."

"Nor have I," replied Amine; "but I feel as if you would be long away from me, Philip; and
is not that an evil to a fond and anxious wife?"

"Yes, love, it is; but--"

"O yes, I know it is your duty, and you must go," replied Amine, burying her face in his bosom.

The next day Philip parted from his wife, who behaved with more fortitude than on their first
separation. "All were lost, but he was saved," thought Amine. "I feel that he will return to
me. God of Heaven, thy will be done!"

Philip soon arrived at Amsterdam; and having purchased many things which he thought might be
advantageous to him in case of accident, to which he now looked forward as almost certain,
he embarked on board the Batavia, which was lying at single anchor, and ready for sea.

Chapter XII

Philip had not been long on board, ere he found that they were not likely to have a very comfortable
passage; for the Batavia was chartered to convey a large detachment of troops to Ceylon and
Java, for the purpose of recruiting and strengthening the Company's forces at those places.
She was to quit the fleet off Madagascar, and run direct for the Island of Java; the number
of soldiers on board being presumed sufficient to insure the ship against any attack or accidents
from pirates or enemies' cruisers. The Batavia, moreover, mounted thirty guns, and had a crew
of seventy-five men. Besides military stores, which formed the principal part of her cargo,
she had on board a large quantity of specie for the Indian market. The detachment of soldiers
was embarking when Philip went on board, and in a few minutes the decks were so crowded that
it was hardly possible to move. Philip, who had not yet spoken to the captain, found out the
first mate, and immediately entered upon his duty, with which, from his close application to
it during his former voyage and passage home, he was much better acquainted than might have
been imagined.

In a short time all traces of hurry and confusion began to disappear, the baggage of the troops
was stowed away, and the soldiers having been told off in parties, and stationed with their
messing utensils between the guns of the main deck, room was thus afforded for working the
ship. Philip showed great activity as well as method in the arrangements proposed, and the
captain, during a pause in his own arduous duties, said to him--

"I thought you were taking it very easy, Mr Vanderdecken, in not joining the ship before, but,
now you are on board, you are making up for lost time. You have done more during the forenoon
than I could have expected. I am glad that you are come, though very sorry you were not here
when we were stowing the hold, which, I am afraid, is not arranged quite so well as it might
be. Mynheer Struys, the first mate, has had more to do than he could well give attention to."

"I am sorry that I should not have been here, sir," replied Philip; "but I came as soon as
the Company sent me word."

"Yes, and as they know that you are a married man, and do not forget that you are a great shareholder,
they would not trouble you too soon. I presume you will have the command of a vessel next voyage.
In fact, you are certain of it, with the capital you have invested in their funds. I had a
conversation with one of the senior accountants on the subject this very morning."

Philip was not very sorry that his money had been put out to such good interest, as to be the
captain of a ship was what he earnestly desired. He replied, that, "he certainly did hope to
command a ship after the next voyage, when he trusted that he should feel himself quite competent
to the charge."

"No doubt, no doubt, Mr Vanderdecken. I can see that clearly. You must be very fond of the sea."

"I am," replied Philip; "I doubt whether I shall ever give it up."

"Never give it up! You think so now. You are young, active, and full of hope: but you will
tire of it by-and-bye, and be glad to lay by for the rest of your days."

"How many troops do we embark?" inquired Philip.

"Two hundred and forty-five rank and file, and six officers. Poor fellows! there are but few
of them will ever return: nay, more than one-half will not see another birthday. It is a dreadful
climate. I have landed three hundred men at that horrid hole, and in six months, even before
I had sailed, there were not one hundred left alive."

"It is almost murder to send them there," observed Philip.

"Psha! they must die somewhere, and if they die a little sooner, what matter? Life is a commodity
to be bought and sold like any other. We send so much manufactured goods and so much money
to barter for Indian commodities. We also send out so much life, and it gives a good return
to the Company."

"But not to the poor soldiers, I am afraid."

"No; the Company buy it cheap and sell it dear," replied the captain, who walked forward.

True, thought Philip, they do purchase human life cheap, and make a rare profit of it, for
without these poor fellows how could they hold their possessions in spite of native and foreign
enemies? For what a paltry and cheap annuity do these men sell their lives? For what a miserable
pittance do they dare all the horrors of a most deadly climate, without a chance, a hope of
return to their native land, where they might haply repair their exhausted energies, and take
a new lease of life! Good God! if these men may be thus heartlessly sacrificed to Mammon, why
should I feel remorse if, in the fulfilment of a sacred duty imposed on me by Him who deals
with us as He thinks meet, a few mortals perish? Not a sparrow falls to the ground without
His knowledge, and it is for Him to sacrifice or save. I am but the creature of His will, and
I but follow my duty,--but obey the commands of One whose ways are inscrutable. Still, if for
my sake this ship be also doomed, I cannot but wish that I had been appointed to some other,
in which the waste of human life might have been less.

It was not until a week after Philip arrived on board that the Batavia and the remainder of
the fleet were ready for sea.

It would be difficult to analyse the feelings of Philip Vanderdecken on this his second embarkation.
His mind was so continually directed to the object of his voyage, that although he attended
to his religious duty, yet the business of life passed before him as a dream. Assured of again
meeting with the Phantom Ship, and almost equally assured that the meeting would be followed
by some untoward event, in all probability by the sacrifice of those who sailed with him, his
thoughts preyed upon him, and wore him down to a shadow. He hardly ever spoke, except in the
execution of his duty. He felt like a criminal; as one who, by embarking with them, had doomed
all around him to death, disaster, and peril; and when one talked of his wife, and another
of his children--when they would indulge in anticipations, and canvass happy projects, Philip
would feel sick at heart, and would rise from the table and hasten to the solitude of the deck.
At one time he would try to persuade himself that his senses had been worked upon in some moment
of excitement, that he was the victim of an illusion; at another he would call to mind all
the past--he would feel its terrible reality--and then the thought would suggest itself that
with this supernatural vision Heaven had nothing to do; that it was but the work and jugglery
of Satan. But then the relic--by such means the devil would not have worked. A few days after
he had sailed, he bitterly repented that he had not stated the whole of his circumstances to
Father Seysen, and taken his advice upon the propriety of following up his search; but it was
now too late; already was the good ship Batavia more than a thousand miles from the port of
Amsterdam, and his duty, whatever it might be, must be fulfilled.

As the fleet approached the Cape, his anxiety increased to such a degree that it was remarked
by all who were on board. The captain and officers commanding the troops embarked, who all
felt interested in him, vainly attempted to learn the cause of his anxiety. Philip would plead
ill-health; and his haggard countenance and sunken eyes silently proved that he was under acute
suffering. The major part of the night he passed on deck, straining his eyes in every quarter,
and watching each change in the horizon, in anticipation of the appearance of the Phantom Ship;
and it was not till the day dawned that he sought a perturbed repose in his cabin. After a
favourable passage, the fleet anchored to refresh at Table Bay, and Philip felt some small
relief, that up to the present time the supernatural visitation had not again occurred.

As soon as the fleet had watered, they again made sail, and again did Philip's agitation become
perceptible. With a favouring breeze, however, they rounded the Cape, passed by Madagascar,
and arrived in the Indian Seas, when the Batavia parted company with the rest of the fleet,
which steered to Cambroon and Ceylon. "And now," thought Philip, "will the Phantom Ship make
her appearance. It has only waited till we should be left without a consort to assist us in
distress." But the Batavia sailed in a smooth sea and under a cloudless sky, and nothing was
seen. In a few weeks she arrived off Java, and, previous to entering the splendid roads of
Batavia, hove-to for the night. This was the last night they would be under sail, and Philip
stirred not from the deck, but walked to and fro, anxiously waiting for the morning. The morning
broke--the sun rose in splendour, and the Batavia steered into the roads. Before noon she was
at anchor, and Philip, with his mind relieved, hastened down to his cabin, and took that repose
which he so much required.

He awoke refreshed, for a great weight had been taken off his mind. "It does not follow, then,"
thought he, "that because I am on board the vessel therefore the crew are doomed to perish;
it does not follow that the Phantom Ship is to appear because I seek her. If so, I have no
further weight upon my conscience. I seek her, it is true, and wish to meet with her; I stand,
however, but the same chance as others; and it is no way certain that because I seek, I am
sure to find. That she brings disaster upon all she meets, may be true, but not that I bring
with me the disaster of meeting her. Heaven I thank thee! Now I can prosecute my search without
remorse."

Philip, restored to composure by these reflections, went on deck. The debarkation of the troops
was already taking place, for they were as anxious to be relieved from their long confinement
as the seamen were to regain a little space and comfort. He surveyed the scene. The town of
Batavia lay about one mile from them, low on the beach; from behind it rose a lofty chain of
mountains, brilliant with verdure, and, here and there, peopled with country seats, belonging
to the residents, delightfully embosomed in forests of trees. The panorama was beautiful; the
vegetation was luxuriant, and, from its vivid green, refreshing to the eye. Near to the town
lay large and small vessels, a forest of masts; the water in the bay was of a bright blue,
and rippled to a soft breeze; here and there small islets (like tufts of fresh verdure) broke
the uniformity of the water-line; even the town itself was pleasing to the eye, the white colour
of the houses being opposed to the dark foliage of the trees, which grew in the gardens, and
lined the streets.

"Can it be possible," observed Philip to the captain of the Batavia, who stood by him, "that
this beautiful spot can be so unhealthy? I should form a very different opinion from its appearance."

"Even," replied the captain, "as the venomous snakes of the country start up from among its
flowers, so does death stalk about in this beautiful and luxuriant landscape. Do you feel better,
Mynheer Vanderdecken?"

"Much better," replied Philip.

"Still, in your enfeebled state, I should recommend you to go on shore."

"I shall avail myself of your permission, with thanks. How long shall we stay here?"

"Not long, as we are ordered to run back. Our cargo is all ready for us, and will be on board
soon after we have discharged."

Philip took the advice of his captain; he had no difficulty in finding himself received by
a hospitable merchant, who had a house at some distance from the town, and in a healthy situation.
There he remained two months, during which he re-established his health, and then re-embarked
a few days previous to the ship being ready for sea. The return voyage was fortunate, and in
four months from the date of their quitting Batavia, they found themselves abreast of St Helena;
for vessels, at that period, generally made what is called the eastern passage, running down
the coast of Africa, instead of keeping towards the American shores. Again they had passed
the Cape without meeting with the Phantom Ship; and Philip was not only in excellent health,
but in good spirits. As they lay becalmed, with the island in sight, they observed a boat pulling
towards them, and in the course of three hours she arrived on board. The crew were much exhausted
from having been two days in the boat, during which time they had never ceased pulling to gain
the island. They stated themselves to be the crew of a small Dutch Indiaman, which had foundered
at sea two days before; she had started one of her planks, and filled so rapidly that the men
had hardly time to save themselves. They consisted of the captain, mates, and twenty men belonging
to the ship, and an old Portuguese Catholic priest, who had been sent home by the Dutch governor,
for having opposed the Dutch interests in the Island of Japan. He had lived with the natives,
and been secreted by them for some time, as the Japanese government was equally desirous of
capturing him, with the intention of taking away his life. Eventually he found himself obliged
to throw himself into the arms of the Dutch, as being the less cruel of his enemies.

The Dutch government decided that he should be sent away from the country; and he had, in consequence,
been put on board of the Indiaman for a passage home. By the report of the captain and crew,
one person only had been lost; but he was a person of consequence, having for many years held
the situation of president in the Dutch factory at Japan. He was returning to Holland with
the riches which he had amassed. By the evidence of the captain and crew, he had insisted,
after he was put into the boat, upon going back to the ship to secure a casket of immense value,
containing diamonds and other precious stones, which he had forgotten; they added, that while
they were waiting for him the ship suddenly plunged her bowsprit under, and went down head
foremost, and that it was with difficulty they had themselves escaped. They had waited for
some time to ascertain if he would rise again to the surface, but he appeared no more.

"I knew that something would happen," observed the captain of the sunken vessel, after he had
been sitting a short time in the cabin with Philip and the captain of the Batavia; "we saw
the Fiend or Devil's Ship, as they call her, but three days before."

"What! the Flying Dutchman, as they name her?" asked Philip.

"Yes; that, I believe, is the name they give her," replied the captain. "I have often heard
of her; but it never was my fate to fall in with her before, and I hope it never will be again;
for I am a ruined man, and must begin the world afresh."

"I have heard of that vessel," observed the captain of the Batavia. "Pray, how did she appear
to you?"

"Why, the fact is, I did not see anything but the loom of her hull," replied the other. "It
was very strange; the night was fine, and the heavens clear; we were under top-gallant sails,
for I do not carry on during the night, or else we might have put the royals on her; she would
have carried them with the breeze. I had turned in, when about two o'clock in the morning the
mate called me to come on deck. I demanded what was the matter, and he replied he could hardly
tell, but that the men were much frightened, and that there was a Ghost Ship, as the sailors
termed it, in sight. I went on deck; all the horizon was clear, but on our quarter was a sort
of fog, round as a ball, and not more than two cables' length from us. We were going about
four knots and a half free, and yet we could not escape from this mist. 'Look there,' said
the mate. 'Why, what the devil can it be?' said I, rubbing my eyes. 'No banks up to windward,
and yet a fog in the middle of a clear sky, with a fresh breeze, and with water all around
it;' for you see the fog did not cover more than a dozen cables' length, as we could perceive
by the horizon on each side of it. 'Hark, sir!' said the mate--'they are speaking again.' 'Speaking!'
said I, and I listened; and from out this ball of fog I heard voices. At last, one cried out,
'Keep a sharp look-out forward, d'ye hear?' 'Ay, ay, sir!' replied another voice. 'Ship on
the starboard bow, sir.' 'Very well; strike the bell there forward.' And then we heard the
bell toll. 'It must be a vessel,' said I to the mate. 'Not of this world, sir,' replied he.
'Hark!' 'A gun ready forward.' 'Ay, ay, sir!' was now heard out of the fog, which appeared
to near us; 'all ready, sir.' 'Fire!' The report of the gun sounded on our ears like thunder,
and then--"

"Well, and then?" said the captain of the Batavia, breathless.

"And then," replied the other captain, solemnly, "the fog and all disappeared as if by magic,
the whole horizon was clear, and there was nothing to be seen."

"Is it possible?"

"There are twenty men on deck to tell the story," replied the captain. "And the old Catholic
priest to boot, for he stood by me the whole time I was on deck. The men said that some accident
would happen; and in the morning watch, on sounding the well, we found four feet water. We
took to the pumps, but it gained upon us, and we went down, as I have told you. The mate says
that the vessel is well known--it is called the Flying Dutchman."

Philip made no remarks at the time, but he was much pleased at what he had heard. "If," thought
he, "the Phantom Ship of my poor father appears to others as well as to me, and they are sufferers,
my being on board can make no difference. I do but take my chance of falling in with her, and
do not risk the lives of those who sail in the same vessel with me. Now my mind is relieved,
and I can prosecute my search with a quiet conscience."

The next day Philip took an opportunity of making the acquaintance of the Catholic priest,
who spoke Dutch and other languages as well as he did Portuguese. He was a venerable old man,
apparently about sixty years of age, with a white flowing beard, mild in his demeanour, and
very pleasing in his conversation.

When Philip kept his watch that night, the old man walked with him, and it was then, after
a long conversation, that Philip confided to him that he was of the Catholic persuasion.

"Indeed, my son, that is unusual in a Hollander."

"It is so," replied Philip; "nor is it known on board--not that I am ashamed of my religion,
but I wish to avoid discussion."

"You are prudent, my son. Alas! if the reformed religion produces no better fruit than what
I have witnessed in the East, it is little better than idolatry."

"Tell me, father," said Philip--"they talk of a miraculous vision--of a ship not manned by
mortal men. Did you see it?"

"I saw what others saw," replied the priest; "and certainly, as far as my senses would enable
me to judge, the appearance was most unusual--I may say supernatural; but I had heard of this
Phantom Ship before, and moreover that its appearance was the precursor of disaster. So did
it prove in our case, although, indeed, we had one on board, now no more, whose weight of guilt
was more than sufficient to sink any vessel; one, the swallowing up of whom, with all that
wealth from which he anticipated such enjoyment in his own country, has manifested that the
Almighty will, even in this world, sometimes wreak just and awful retribution on those who
have merited His vengeance."

"You refer to the Dutch President who went down with the ship when it sank."

"I do; but the tale of that man's crime is long; to-morrow night I will walk with you, and
narrate the whole. Peace be with you, my son, and good-night."

The weather continued fine, and the Batavia hove-to in the evening with the intention of anchoring
the next morning in the roadstead of St Helena. Philip, when he went on deck to keep the middle
watch, found the old priest at the gangway waiting for him. In the ship all was quiet; the
men slumbered between the guns, and Philip, with his new acquaintance, went aft, and seating
themselves on a hencoop, the priest commenced as follows:--

"You are not, perhaps, aware that the Portuguese, although anxious to secure for themselves
a country discovered by their enterprise and courage, and the possession of which, I fear,
has cost them many crimes, have still never lost sight of one point dear to all good Catholics--that
of spreading wide the true faith, and planting the banner of Christ in the regions of idolatry.
Some of our countrymen having been wrecked on the coast, we were made acquainted with the islands
of Japan; and seven years afterwards, our holy and blessed St Francis, now with God, landed
on the Island of Ximo, where he remained for two years and five months, during which he preached
our religion and made many converts. He afterwards embarked for China, his original destination,
but was not permitted to arrive there; he died on his passage, and thus closed his pure and
holy life. After his death, notwithstanding the many obstacles thrown in our way by the priests
of idolatry, and the persecutions with which they occasionally visited the members of our faith,
the converts to our holy religion increased greatly in the Japanese islands. The religion spread
fast, and many thousands worshipped the true God.

"After a time, the Dutch formed a settlement at Japan, and when they found that the Japanese
Christians around the factories would deal only with the Portuguese, in whom they had confidence,
they became our enemies; and the man of whom we have spoken, and who at that period was the
head of the Dutch Factory, determined, in his lust for gold, to make the Christian religion
a source of suspicion to the emperor of the country, and thus to ruin the Portuguese and their
adherents. Such, my son, was the conduct of one who professed to have embraced the reformed
religion as being of greater purity than our own.

"There was a Japanese lord of great wealth and influence who lived near us, and who, with two
of his sons, had embraced Christianity, and had been baptised. He had two other sons, who lived
at the emperor's court. This lord had made us a present of a house for a college and school
of instruction: on his death, however, his two sons at court, who were idolaters, insisted
upon our quitting this property. We refused, and thus afforded the Dutch principal an opportunity
of inflaming these young noblemen against us: by this means he persuaded the Japanese emperor
that the Portuguese and Christians had formed a conspiracy against his life and throne; for,
be it observed, that when a Dutchman was asked if he was a Christian, he would reply, 'No;
I am a Hollander.'

"The emperor, believing in this conspiracy, gave an immediate order for the extirpation of
the Portuguese, and then of all the Japanese who had embraced the Christian faith. He raised
an army for this purpose, and gave the command of it to the young noblemen I have mentioned,
the sons of the lord who had given us the college. The Christians, aware that resistance was
their only chance, flew to arms, and chose as their generals the other two sons of the Japanese
lord, who, with their father, had embraced Christianity. Thus were the two armies commanded
by four brothers, two on the one side and two on the other.

"The Christian army amounted to more than 40,000 men, but of this the emperor was not aware,
and he sent a force of about 25,000 to conquer and exterminate them. The armies met, and after
an obstinate combat (for the Japanese are very brave) the victory was on the part of the Christians,
and, with the exception of a few who saved themselves in the boats, the army of the emperor
was cut to pieces.

"This victory was the occasion of making more converts, and our army was soon increased to
upwards of 50,000 men. On the other hand, the emperor, perceiving that his troops had been
destroyed, ordered new levies and raised a force of 150,000 men, giving directions to his generals
to give no quarter to the Christians, with the exception of the two young lords who commanded
them, whom he wished to secure alive, that he might put them to death by slow torture. All
offers of accommodation were refused, and the emperor took the field in person. The armies
again met, and on the first day's battle the victory was on the part of the Christians; still
they had to lament the loss of one of their generals, who was wounded and taken prisoner, and,
no quarter having been given, their loss was severe.

"The second day's combat was fatal to the Christians. Their general was killed; they were overpowered
by numbers, and fell to a man. The emperor then attacked the camp in the rear, and put to the
sword every old man, woman, and child. On the field of battle, in the camp, and by subsequent
torture, more than 60,000 Christians perished. But this was not all; a rigorous search for
Christians was made throughout the islands for many years; and they were, when found, put to
death by the most cruel torture. It was not until fifteen years ago that Christianity was entirely
rooted out of the Japanese empire, and during a persecution of somewhat more than sixteen years,
it is supposed that upwards of 400,000 Christians were destroyed; and all this slaughter, my
son, was occasioned by the falsehood and avarice of that man who met his just punishment but
a few days ago. The Dutch company, pleased with his conduct, which procured for them such advantages,
continued him for many years as the president of their factory at Japan. He was a young man
when he first went there, but his hair was grey when he thought of returning to his own country.
He had amassed immense wealth,--immense, indeed, must it have been to have satisfied avarice
such as his! All has now perished with him, and he has been summoned to his account. Reflect
a little, my son. Is it not better to follow up our path of duty, to eschew the riches and
pleasures of this world, and, at our summons hence, to feel that we have hopes of bliss hereafter?"

"Most true, holy father," replied Philip, musing.

"I have but a few years to live," continued the old man, "and God knows I shall quit this world
without reluctance."

"And so could I," replied Philip.

"You, my son!--no. You are young, and should be full of hopes. You have still to do your duty
in that station to which it shall please God to call you."

"I know that I have a duty to perform," replied Philip. "Father, the night air is too keen
for one so aged as you. Retire to your bed, and leave me to my watch and my own thoughts."

"I will, my son! may Heaven guard you! Take an old man's blessing. Good-night."

"Good-night," replied Philip, glad to be alone. "Shall I confess all to him?" thought Philip.
"I feel I could confess to him.--But no. I would not to Father Seysen,--why to him? I should
put myself in his power, and he might order me--No, no! my secret is my own. I need no advisers."
And Philip pulled out the relic from his bosom, and put it reverently to his lips.

The Batavia waited a few days at St Helena, and then continued her voyage. In six weeks Philip
again found himself at anchor in the Zuyder Zee, and having the captain's permission, he immediately
set off for his own home, taking with him the old Portuguese priest Mathias, with whom he had
formed a great intimacy, and to whom he had offered his protection for the time he might wish
to remain in the Low Countries.

Chapter XIII

"Far be it from me to wish to annoy you, my son," said Father Mathias, as with difficulty he
kept pace with the rapid strides of Philip, who was now within a quarter of a mile of his home;
"but still recollect that this is but a transitory world, and that much time has elapsed since
you quitted this spot. For that reason I would fain desire you, if possible, to check these
bounding aspirations after happiness, these joyful anticipations in which you have indulged
since we quitted the vessel. I hope and trust in the mercy of God, that all will be right,
and that in a few minutes you will be in the arms of your much-loved wife: but still, in proportion
as you allow your hopes to be raised, so will you inevitably have them crushed should disappointment
cross your path. At Flushing we were told that there has been a dreadful visitation in this
land, and death may not have spared even one so young and fair."

"Let us haste on, father," replied Philip. "What you say is true, and suspense becomes most
dreadful."

Philip increased his speed, leaving the old man to follow him: he arrived at the bridge with
its wooden gate. It was then about seven o'clock in the morning, for they had crossed the Scheldt
at the dawn of day.

Philip observed that the lower shutters were still closed.

"They might have been up and stirring before this," thought he, as he put his hand to the latch
of the door. It was not fastened. Philip entered! there was a light burning in the kitchen;
he pushed open the door, and beheld a maid-servant leaning back in her chair in a profound
sleep. Before he had time to go in and awaken her, he heard a voice at the top of the stairs,
saying, "Marie, is that the doctor?"

Philip waited no longer; in three bounds he was on the landing-place above, and brushing by
the person who had spoken, he opened the door of Amine's room.

A floating wick in a tumbler of oil gave but a faint and glimmering light; the curtains of
the bed were drawn, and by the side of it was kneeling a figure that was well known to Philip--that
of Father Seysen. Philip recoiled; the blood retreated to his heart; he could not speak: panting
for breath, he supported himself against the wall, and at last vented his agony of feeling
by a deep groan, which aroused the priest, who turned his head, and perceiving who it was,
rose from his knees, and extended his hand in silence.

"She is dead, then!" at last exclaimed Philip.

"No, my son, not dead; there is yet hope. The crisis is at hand; in one more hour her fate
will be decided: then either will she be restored to your arms, or follow the many hundreds
whom this fatal epidemic has consigned to the tomb."

Father Seysen then led Philip to the side of the bed, and withdrew the curtain. Amine lay insensible,
but breathing heavily; her eyes were closed. Philip seized her burning hand, knelt down, pressed
it to his lips, and burst into a paroxysm of tears. As soon as he had become somewhat composed,
Father Seysen persuaded him to rise and sit with him by the side of the bed.

"This is a melancholy sight to witness at your return, Philip," said he; "and to you who are
so ardent, so impetuous, it must be doubly so; but God's will be done. Remember there is yet
hope--not strong hope, I grant, but still there is hope, for so told me the medical man who
has attended her, and who will return, I expect, in a few minutes. Her disease is a typhus
fever, which has swept off whole families within these last two months, and still rages violently;
fortunate, indeed, is the house which has to mourn but one victim. I would that you had not
arrived just now, for it is a disease easily communicated. Many have fled from the country
for security. To add to our misfortunes, we have suffered from the want of medical advice,
for physician and patient have been swept away together."

The door was now slowly opened, and a tall, dark man, in a brown cloak, holding to his nose
a sponge saturated with vinegar, entered the room. He bowed his head to Philip and the priest,
and then went to the bedside. For a minute he held his fingers to the pulse of the sufferer,
then laying down her arm, he put his hand to her forehead, and covered her up with the bedclothes.
He handed to Philip the sponge and vinegar, making a sign that he should use it, and beckoned
Father Seysen out of the room.

In a minute the priest returned. "I have received his directions, my son; he thinks that she
may be saved. The clothes must be kept on her, and replaced if she should throw them off; but
everything will depend upon quiet and calm after she recovers her senses."

"Surely we can promise her that," replied Philip.

"It is not the knowledge of your return, or even the sight of you, which alarms me. Joy seldom
kills, even when the shock is great, but there are other causes for uneasiness."

"What are they, holy father?"

"Philip, it is now thirteen days that Amine has raved, and during that period I have seldom
quitted her but to perform the duties of my office to others who required it. I have been afraid
to leave her, Philip, for in her ravings she has told such a tale, even unconnected as it has
been, as has thrilled my soul with horror. It evidently has long lain heavily on her mind,
and must retard her recovery. Philip Vanderdecken, you may remember that I would once have
had the secret from you--the secret which forced your mother to her tomb, and which now may
send your young wife to follow her, for it is evident that she knows all. Is it not true?"

"She does know all," replied Philip, mournfully.

"And she has in her delirium told all. Nay, I trust she has told more than all; but of that
we will not speak now: watch her, Philip. I will return in half an hour, for by that time,
the doctor tells me, the symptoms will decide whether she will return to reason, or be lost
to you for ever."

Philip whispered to the priest that he had been accompanied by Father Mathias, who was to remain
as his guest, and requested him to explain the circumstances of his present position to him,
and see that he was attended to. Father Seysen then quitted the room, when Philip sat down
by the bedside, and drew back the curtain.

Perhaps there is no situation in life so agonising to the feelings as that in which Philip
was now placed. His joyful emotions when expecting to embrace in health and beauty the object
of his warmest affections, and of his continual thought during his long absence, suddenly checked
by disappointment, anxiety, and grief, at finding her lying emaciated, changed, corrupted with
disease--her mind overthrown--her eyes unconscious of his presence--her existence hanging by
a single hair--her frame prostrate before the King of Terrors who hovers over her with uplifted
dart, and longs for the fiat which should permit him to pierce his unconscious victim.

"Alas!" thought Philip, "is it thus we meet, Amine? Truly did Father Mathias advise me, as
I hurried so impetuously along, not (as I fondly thought) to happiness, but to misery. God
of Heaven! be merciful and forgive me. If I have loved this angelic creature of Thy formation,
even more than I have Thee--spare her--good Heaven, spare her--or I am lost for ever."

Philip covered up his face, and remained for some time in prayer. He then bent over his Amine,
and impressed a kiss upon her burning lips. They were burning, but still there was moisture
upon them, and Philip perceived that there was also moisture on her forehead. He felt her hand,
and the palm of it was moist; and carefully covering her with the bedclothes, he watched her
with anxiety and hope.

In a quarter of an hour he had the delight of perceiving that Amine was in a profuse perspiration;
gradually her breathing became less heavy, and instead of the passive state in which she had
remained, she moved, and became restless. Philip watched, and replaced the clothes as she threw
them off, until she at last appeared to have fallen into a profound and sweet sleep. Shortly
after, Father Seysen and the physician made their appearance. Philip stated, in few words,
what had occurred. The doctor went to the bedside, and in half a minute returned.

"Your wife is spared to you, Mynheer, but it is not advisable that she should see you so unexpectedly;
the shock may be too great in her weak state; she must be allowed to sleep as long as possible;
on her awaking she will have returned to reason. You must leave her then to Father Seysen."

"May I not remain in the room until she wakes? I will then hasten away unobserved."

"That will be useless; the disease is contagious, and you have been here too long already.
Remain below; you must change your clothes, and see that they prepare a bed for her in another
room, to which she must be transported as soon as you think she can bear it; and then let these
windows be thrown open, that the room may be properly ventilated. It will not do to have a
wife just rescued from the jaws of death run the risk of falling a sacrifice to the attentions
necessary to a sick husband."

Philip perceived the prudence of this advice, and quitting the room with the medical man, he
went and changed his clothes, and then joined Father Mathias, whom he found in the parlour below.

"You were right, father," said Philip, throwing himself on the sofa.

"I am old and suspicious, you are young and buoyant, Philip; but I trust all may yet be well."

"I trust so too," replied Philip. He then remained silent and absorbed in thought, for now
that the imminent danger was over, he was reflecting upon what Father Seysen had communicated
to him relative to Amine's having revealed the secret whilst in a state of mental aberration.
The priest perceiving that his mind was occupied, did not interrupt him. An hour had thus passed,
when Father Seysen entered the room.

"Return thanks to Heaven, my son. Amine has awakened, and is perfectly sensible and collected.
There is now little doubt of her recovery. She has taken the restorative ordered by the doctor,
though she was so anxious to repose once more, that she could hardly be persuaded to swallow
it. She is now again fast asleep, and watched by one of the maidens, and in all probability
will not move for many hours; but every moment of such sleep is precious, and she must not
be disturbed. I will now see to some refreshment, which must be needful to us all. Philip,
you have not introduced me to your companion, who, I perceive, is of my own calling."

"Forgive me, sir," replied Philip; "you will have great pleasure in making acquaintance with
Father Mathias, who has promised to reside with me, I trust, for some time. I will leave you
together, and see to the breakfast being prepared, for the delay of which I trust Father Mathias
will accept my apology."

Philip then left the room, and went into the kitchen. Having ordered what was requisite, to
be taken into the parlour, he put on his hat and walked out of the house. He could not eat;
his mind was in a state of confusion; the events of the morning had been too harassing and
exciting, and he felt as if the fresh air was necessary to his existence.

As he proceeded, careless in which direction, he met many with whom he had been acquainted,
and from whom he had received condolence at his supposed bereavement, and congratulations when
they learnt from him that the danger was over; and from them he also learnt how fatal had been
the pestilence.

Not one-third of the inhabitants of Terneuse and the surrounding country remained alive, and
those who had recovered were in a state of exhaustion which prevented them from returning to
their accustomed occupations. They had combated disease, but remained the prey of misery and
want; and Philip mentally vowed that he would appropriate all his savings to the relief of
those around him. It was not until more than two hours had passed away that Philip returned
to the cottage.

On his arrival he found that Amine still slumbered, and the two priests were in conversation below.

"My son," said Father Seysen, "let us now have a little explanation. I have had a long conference
with this good Father, who hath much interested me with his account of the extension of our
holy religion among the Pagans. He hath communicated to me much to rejoice at and much to grieve
for; but, among other questions put to him, I have (in consequence of what I have learnt during
the mental alienation of your wife) interrogated him upon the point of a supernatural appearance
of a vessel in the eastern seas. You observe, Philip, that your secret is known to me, or I
could not have put that question. To my surprise, he hath stated a visitation of the kind to
which he was eye-witness, and which cannot reasonably be accounted for, except by supernatural
interposition. A strange and certainly most awful visitation! Philip, would it not be better
(instead of leaving me in a maze of doubt) that you now confided to us both all the facts connected
with this strange history, so that we may ponder on them, and give you the benefit of the advice
of those who are older than yourself, and who, by their calling may be able to decide more
correctly whether this supernatural power has been exercised by a good or evil intelligence?"

"The holy Father speaks well, Philip Vanderdecken," observed Mathias.

"If it be the work of the Almighty, to whom should you confide and by whom should you be guided,
but by those who do His service on this earth? If of the Evil One, to whom but to those whose
duty and wish it is to counteract his baneful influence? And reflect, Philip, that this secret
may sit heavily on the mind of your cherished wife, and may bow her to the grave, as it did
your (I trust) sainted mother. With you, and supported by your presence, she may bear it well;
but, recollect how many are the lonely days and nights that she must pass during your absence,
and how much she must require the consolation and help of others. A secret like this must be
as a gnawing worm, and, strong as she may be in courage, must shorten her existence, but for
the support and the balm she may receive from the ministers of our faith. It was cruel and
selfish of you, Philip, to leave her, a lone woman, to bear up against your absence, and at
the same time oppressed with so fatal a knowledge."

"You have convinced me, holy Father," replied Philip. "I feel that I should, before this, have
made you acquainted with this strange history. I will now state the whole of the circumstances
which have occurred, but with little hope your advice can help me, in a case so difficult,
and in a duty so peremptory, yet so perplexing."

Philip then entered into a minute detail of all that had passed from the few days previous
to his mother's death, until the present time, and when he had concluded, he observed--

"You see, Father, that I have bound myself by a solemn vow--that that vow has been recorded
and accepted; and it appears to me that I have nothing now to do but to follow my peculiar
destiny."

"My son, you have told us strange and startling things--things not of this world--if you are
not deceived. Leave us now. Father Mathias and I will consult upon this serious matter, and
when we are agreed, you shall know our decision."

Philip went upstairs to see Amine; she was still in a deep sleep: he dismissed the servant,
and watched by the bedside. For nearly two hours did he remain there, when he was summoned
down to meet the two priests.

"We have had a long conversation, my son," said Father Seysen, "upon this strange, and perhaps
supernatural occurrence. I say perhaps, for I would have rejected the frenzied communications
of your mother, as the imaginings of a heated brain; and for the same reason I should have
been equally inclined to suppose that the high state of excitement that you were in at the
time of her death may have disordered your intellect; but, as Father Mathias positively asserts,
that a strange, if not supernatural, appearance of a vessel did take place, on his passage
home, and which appearance tallies with and corroborates the legend, if so I may call it, to
which you have given evidence; I say that it is not impossible but that it is supernatural."

"Recollect that the same appearance of the Phantom Ship has been permitted to me and to many
others," replied Philip.

"Yes," replied Father Seysen; "but who is there alive of those who saw it but yourself? But
that is of little importance. We will admit that the whole affair is not the work of man, but
of a superior intelligence."

"Superior, indeed!" replied Philip. "It is the work of Heaven!"

"That is a point not so easily admitted; there is another power as well as that which is divine--that
of the devil!--the arch-enemy of mankind! But as that power, inferior to the power of God,
cannot act without His permission, we may indirectly admit that it is the will of Heaven that
such signs and portents should be allowed to be given on certain occasions."

"Then our opinions are the same, good Father."

"Nay, not exactly, my son. Elymas, the sorcerer, was permitted to practise his arts--gained
from the devil--that it might be proved, by his overthrow and blindness, how inferior was his
master to the Divine Ruler; but it does not therefore follow that sorcery generally was permitted.
In this instance it may be true that the Evil One has been permitted to exercise his power
over the captain and crew of that ship, and, as a warning against such heavy offences, the
supernatural appearance of the vessel may be permitted. So far we are justifiable in believing.
But the great questions are, first, whether it be your father who is thus doomed? and, secondly,
how far you are necessitated to follow up this mad pursuit, which, it appears to me--although
it may end in your destruction--cannot possibly be the means of rescuing your father from his
state of unhallowed abeyance? Do you understand me, Philip?"

"I certainly understand what you would say, Father; but--"

"Answer me not yet. It is the opinion of this holy father as well as of myself, that, allowing
the facts to be as you suppose, the revelations made to you are not from on high, but the suggestions
of the devil, to lead you into danger and ultimately to death; for if it were your task, as
you suppose, why did not the vessel appear on this last voyage, and how can you (allowing that
you met her fifty times) have communication with that, or with those which are but phantoms
and shadows, things not of this world? Now what we propose is, that you should spend a proportion
of the money left by your father, in masses for the repose of his soul, which your mother,
in other circumstances, would certainly have done; and that having so done, you should remain
quietly on shore until some new sign should be given to you which may warrant our supposing
that you are really chosen for this strange pursuit?"

"But my oath, Father--my recorded vow?"

"From that, my son, the holy Church hath power to absolve you; and that absolution you shall
receive. You have put yourself into our hands, and by our decision you must be guided. If there
be wrong, it is we, and not you, who are responsible; but, at present, let us say no more.
I will now go up, and so soon as your wife awakens, prepare her for your meeting."

When Father Seysen had quitted the room, Father Mathias debated the matter with Philip. A long
discussion ensued, in which similar arguments were made use of by the priest; and Philip, although
not convinced, was, at least, doubtful and perplexed. He left the cottage.

"A new sign--a corroborative sign," thought Philip; "surely there have been signs and wonders
enough. Still it may be true that masses for my father's soul may relieve him from his state
of torture. At all events, if they decide for me, I am not to blame. Well then, let us wait
for a new sign of the Divine will--if so it must be;" and Philip walked on, occasionally thinking
on the arguments of Father Seysen, and oftener thinking of Amine.

It was now evening, and the sun was fast descending. Philip wandered on, until at last he arrived
at the very spot where he had knelt down and pronounced his solemn vow. He recognised it; he
looked at the distant hills. The sun was just at the same height; the whole scene, the place,
and the time were before him. Again Philip knelt down, took the relic from his bosom and kissed
it. He watched the sun; he bowed himself to the earth. He waited for a sign; but the sun sank
down and the veil of night spread over the landscape. There was no sign; and Philip rose and
walked home towards the cottage, more inclined than before to follow the suggestions of Father
Seysen.

On his return, Philip went softly upstairs and entered the room of Amine, whom he found awake
and in conversation with the priests. The curtain was closed, and he was not perceived. With
a beating heart he remained near the wall at the head of the bed.

"Reason to believe that my husband has arrived!" said Amine, in a faint voice. "Oh tell me,
why so?"

"His ship is arrived, we know; and one who had seen her said that all were well."

"And why is he not here, then? Who should bring the news of his return but himself? Father
Seysen, either he has not arrived or he is here--I know he must be, if he is safe and well.
I know my Philip too well. Say! is he not here? Fear not, if you say yes; but if you say no,
you kill me!"

"He is here, Amine," replied Father Seysen--"here and well."

"O God! I thank you; but where is he? If he is here, he must be in this room, or else you deceive
me. Oh, this suspense is death!"

"I am here," cried Philip, opening the curtains.

Amine rose with a shriek, held out her arms, and then fell senseless back. In a few seconds,
however, she was restored, and proved the truth of the good Father's assertion, "that joy does
not kill."

We must now pass over the few days during which Philip watched the couch of his Amine, who
rapidly regained her strength. As soon as she was well enough to enter upon the subject, Philip
narrated all that had passed since his departure; the confession which he had made to Father
Seysen, and the result. Amine, too glad that Philip should remain with her, added her persuasions
to those of the priests, and, for some little time, Philip talked no more of going to sea.

Chapter XIV

Six weeks had flown away, and Amine, restored to health, wandered over the country, hanging
on the arm of her adored Philip, or nestled by his side in their comfortable home. Father Mathias
still remained their guest; the masses for the repose of the soul of Vanderdecken had been
paid for, and more money had been confided to the care of Father Seysen to relieve the sufferings
of the afflicted poor. It may be easily supposed that one of the chief topics of conversation
between Philip and Amine was the decision of the two priests relative to the conduct of Philip.
He had been absolved from his oath, but, at the same time that he submitted to his clerical
advisers, he was by no means satisfied. His love for Amine, her wishes for his remaining at
home, certainly added weight to the fiat of Father Seysen; but, although he in consequence
obeyed it more willingly, his doubts of the propriety of his conduct remained the same. The
arguments of Amine, who, now that she was supported by the opinion of the priests, had become
opposed to Philip's departure; even her caresses, with which those arguments were mingled,
were effective but for the moment. No sooner was Philip left to himself, no sooner was the
question, for a time, dismissed, than he felt an inward accusation that he was neglecting a
sacred duty. Amine perceived how often the cloud was upon his brow; she knew too well the cause,
and constantly did she recommence her arguments and caresses, until Philip forgot that there
was aught but Amine in the world.

One morning, as they were seated upon a green bank picking the flowers that blossomed round
them, and tossing them away in pure listlessness, Amine took the opportunity that she had often
waited for, to enter upon a subject hitherto unmentioned.

"Philip," said she, "do you believe in dreams? think you that we may have supernatural communications
by such means?"

"Of course we may," replied Philip; "we have proof abundant of it in the holy writings."

"Why, then, do you not satisfy your scruples by a dream?"

"My dearest Amine, dreams come unbidden; we cannot command or prevent them--"

"We can command them, Philip; say that you would dream upon the subject nearest to your heart,
and you shall!"

"I shall?"

"Yes! I have that power, Philip, although I have not spoken of it. I had it from my mother,
with much more that of late I have never thought of. You know, Philip, I never say that which
is not. I tell you, that, if you choose, you shall dream upon it."

"And to what good, Amine? If you have power to make me dream, that power must be from somewhere."

"It is, of course: there are agencies you little think of, which, in my country, are still
called into use. I have a charm, Philip, which never fails."

"A charm, Amine! do you, then, deal in sorcery? for such powers cannot be from Heaven."

"I cannot tell. I only know the power is given."

"It must be from the devil, Amine."

"And why so, Philip? May I not use the argument of your own priests, who say, 'that the power
of the devil is only permitted to be used by Divine intelligence, and that it cannot be used
without that permission?' Allow it then to be sorcery, or what you please, unless by Heaven
permitted, it would fail. But I cannot see why we should suppose that it is from an evil source.
We ask for a warning in a dream to guide our conduct in doubtful circumstances. Surely the
evil one would rather lead us wrong than right!"

"Amine, we may be warned in a dream, as the patriarchs were of old; but to use mystic or unholy
charms to procure a vision, is making a compact with the devil."

"Which compact the devil could not fulfil if not permitted by a higher power. Philip, your
reasoning is false. We are told that, by certain means, duly observed, we may procure the dreams
we wish. Our observance of these means is certainly the least we can attend to, to prove our
sincerity. Forgive me, Philip, but are not observances as necessary in your religion--which
I have embraced? Are we not told that the omission of the mere ceremony of water to the infant
will turn all future chance of happiness to misery eternal?"

Philip answered not for some time. "I am afraid, Amine," said he, at last, in a low tone; "I--"

"I fear nothing, Philip, when my intentions are good," replied Amine. "I follow certain means
to obtain an end. What is that end? It is to find out (if possible) what may be the will of
Heaven in this perplexing case. If it should be through the agency of the devil--what then?
He becomes my servant, and not my master; he is permitted by Heaven to act against himself;"
and Amine's eyes darted fire, as she thus boldly expressed herself.

"Did your mother often exercise her art?" inquired Philip, after a pause.

"Not to my knowledge; but it was said that she was most expert. She died young (as you know),
or I should have known much more. Think you, Philip, that this world is solely peopled by such
dross as we are?--things of clay--perishable and corruptible? Lords over beasts--and ourselves
but little better. Have you not, from your own sacred writings, repeated acknowledgments and
proofs of higher intelligences mixing up with mankind, and acting here below? Why should what
was then, not be now! and what more harm is there to apply for their aid now, than a few thousand
years ago? Why should you suppose that they were permitted on the earth then--and not permitted
now? What has become of them? Have they perished? have they been ordered back--to where--to
heaven? If to heaven--the world and mankind have been left to the mercy of the devil and his
agents. Do you suppose that we, poor mortals, have been thus abandoned? I tell you plainly,
I think not. We no longer have the communications with those intelligences that we once had,
because, as we become more enlightened, we become more proud, and seek them not; but that they
still exist--a host of good against a host of evil, invisibly opposing each other--is my conviction.
But, tell me, Philip, do you in your conscience believe that all that has been revealed to
you is a mere dream of the imagination?"

"I do not believe so, Amine: you know well I wish I could."

"Then is my reasoning proved: for if such communications can be made to you, why cannot others?
You cannot tell by what agency; your priests say it is that of the evil one; you think it is
from on high. By the same rule, who is to decide from whence the dream shall come?"

"'Tis true, Amine; but are you certain of your power?"

"Certain of this: that if it pleases superior intelligence to communicate with you, that communication
may be relied upon. Either you will not dream, but pass away the hours in deep sleep, or what
you dream will be connected with the question at issue."

"Then, Amine, I have made up my mind--I will dream: for at present my mind is racked by contending
and perplexing doubts. I would know whether I am right or wrong. This night your art shall
be employed."

"Not this night, nor yet to-morrow night, Philip. Think you one moment that, in proposing this,
I serve you against my own wishes? I feel as if the dream will decide against me, and that
you will be commanded to return to your duty; for I tell you honestly, I think not with the
priests; but I am your wife, Philip, and it is my duty that you should not be deceived. Having
the means, as I suppose, to decide your conduct, I offer them. Promise me that, if I do this,
you will grant me a favour which I shall ask as my reward."

"It is promised, Amine, without its being known," replied Philip, rising from the turf; "and
now let us go home."

We observed that Philip, previous to his sailing in the Batavia, had invested a large proportion
of his funds in Dutch East India stock: the interest of the money was more than sufficient
for the wants of Amine, and, on his return, he found that the funds left in her charge had
accumulated. After paying to Father Seysen the sums for the masses, and for the relief of the
poor, there was a considerable residue, and Philip had employed this in the purchase of more
shares in the India stock.

The subject of their conversation was not renewed. Philip was rather averse to Amine practising
those mystical arts, which, if known to the priests, would have obtained for her, in all probability,
the anathema of the Church. He could not but admire the boldness and power of Amine's reasonings,
but still he was averse to reduce them into practice. The third day had passed away, and no
more had been said upon the subject.

Philip retired to bed, and was soon fast asleep; but Amine slept not. So soon as she was convinced
that Philip would not be awakened, she slipped from the bed and dressed herself. She left the
room, and in a quarter of an hour returned, bringing in her hand a small brazier of lighted
charcoal, and two small pieces of parchment, rolled up and fixed by a knot to the centre of
a narrow fillet. They exactly resembled the philacteries that were once worn by the Jewish
nation, and were similarly applied. One of them she gently bound upon the forehead of her husband,
and the other upon his left arm. She threw perfumes into the brazier, and as the form of her
husband was becoming indistinct from the smoke which filled the room, she muttered a few sentences,
waved over him a small sprig of some shrub which she held in her white hand, and then closing
the curtains, and removing the brazier she sat down by the side of the bed.

"If there be harm," thought Amine, "at least the deed is not his--'tis mine; they cannot say
that he has practised arts that are unlawful and forbidden by his priests. On my head be it!"
And there was a contemptuous curl on Amine's beautiful arched lip, which did not say much for
her devotion to her new creed.

Morning dawned, and Philip still slumbered. "'Tis enough," said Amine, who had been watching
the rising of the sun, as she beheld his upper limb appear above the horizon. Again she waved
her arm over Philip, holding the sprig in her hand; and cried, "Philip, awake!"

Philip started up, opened his eyes, and shut them again to avoid the glare of the broad daylight,
rested upon his elbow, and appeared to be collecting his thoughts.

"Where am I?" exclaimed he. "In my own bed? Yes!" He passed his hand across his forehead, and
felt the scroll. "What is this?" continued he, pulling it off, and examining it. "And Amine,
where is she? Good Heavens, what a dream! Another?" cried he, perceiving the scroll tied to
his arm. "I see it now. Amine, this is your doing." And Philip threw himself down, and buried
his face in the pillow.

Amine, in the meantime, had slipped into bed, and had taken her place by Philip's side. "Sleep,
Philip, dear! sleep!" said she, putting her arms round him; "we will talk when we wake again."

"Are you there, Amine?" replied Philip, confused. "I thought I was alone; I have dreamed--"
And Philip again was fast asleep before he could complete his sentence. Amine, too, tired with
watching, slumbered and was happy.

Father Mathias had to wait a long while for his breakfast that morning; it was not till two
hours later than usual that Philip and Amine made their appearance.

"Welcome, my children," said he; "you are late."

"We are, Father," replied Amine; "for Philip slept, and I watched till break of day."

"He hath not been ill, I trust," replied the priest.

"No, not ill; but I could not sleep," replied Amine.

"Then didst thou do well to pass the night--as I doubt not thou hast done, my child--in holy
watchings."

Philip shuddered; he knew that the watching, had its cause been known, would have been, in
the priest's opinion, anything but holy. I cry out loud.

I'm not a charlatan, and no one thinks I deserve to live. Argh, what
does it matter!"

Parpon didn’t respond immediately. Finally, lowering his chin in his hand and his elbow on
his knee, he kneeled on the desk, he said:  "But if the women apologized--"

For a moment there was silence, except for the crackling of the fire in the hearth and the
heavy breathing of the ill gentlemen.

His eyes were gazing intently at Parpon. At last he said, bit by bit and ferociously:  "What
do you know?"  "What others might know if they had sight and a right mind; but they don't. What
would you achieve if that Junie came back?"  "I would murder her." His look was homicidal.
"Blah, you would kiss her first, just the same!"  "What are you
saying?

That I would kiss her because--because there is nothing in the world
like her face; and I'd kill her for her terrible heart."

"What did she do?" Pomfrette asked, his hands clenched.

"That is for me to know, and not for anyone else to find out,"
he answered sadly.

"There is no reason to keep these things to yourself! What did she do? Who knows? What you
think she did is this.

You think she acts like she loves you, and you entrust all your wealth
to her.

She is to buy masses for your father's spirit; she is to compensate money to the Cure for the
good of the Church; she is to buy a little here, a little there, for the domicile you and
she are going to live in, the nuptials and the dancing over. Very well. Ah, my Pomfrette, how
do you think it will end?Do you think she will run away with Dicey the Protestant, and take your
earning with her. Eh, do you think that’s what will happen?"  There came a sob in reply,
and then a horrible rupture of lament and rage and fanatical denunciations--against Junie Gauloir,
against Pontiac, against the universe.  Parpon remained silent.  Days, weeks, and months followed;
and the months extended to three years.  Through those periods, Pomfrette traveled through Pontiac,
shunned and impenitent. His hushed, depressing fortitude was almost an insult to Pontiac; and
if the elders, the Cure, the Avocat, the Little Chemist, and Medallion, were more apologetic
than insulted, they stood detached until the man should in some manner redeem himself, and ask
forgiveness of his unpleasant mistakes. But one person continued to defy the Church and people,
Cure and voyageur. Parpon openly and boldly walked with Pomfrette, conversed with him, and frequently
visited his home.  Luc made difficult decisions to live. He produced everything that he consumed;
vegetables and grains.

Parpon showed him how to produce his own flour in ancient fashion,
for no miller in any rural community in the area would sell him flour,
and he had no currency to purchase it, nor would anyone who had knowledge
of him would give him employment.

And after his homecoming to Pontiac he never asked for it. His disposition was disobedient,
morose, severe.

His wood he harvested hailed from a place known as No-Man's Land. His textiles he made himself
out of the skins of deer that he inoculation; when he ran out of ammunition, he defeated the
deer with bow and arrow.  III  The end finally came to a close. Luc had become ill. For four
days, with no one else, he lay ablaze with fever and irritation, and when Parpon found him he
was almost lifeless.

Then began the struggle for existence again, in which Parpon was
the only general practitioner; for Pomfrette would not allow the Little
Chemist or a physician near him.

Parpon at last extinguished hope; but one evening, when he returned from the township, he saw,
to his delight, old Mme. Degardy ("Crazy Joan" as she was often referred
to ) kneeling by Pomfrette's bedside.

He did not agitate her, for she had no desire for him, and he waited
till she had departed.



"'Do you fear now, Philip Vanderdecken?'

"'No!' replied I.

"She passed her hands across her forehead, threw aside the tresses which had partly concealed
her face, and said--

"'Then look at me.'

"I looked, Amine, and I beheld you!"

"Me!" observed Amine, with a smile upon her lips.

"Yes, Amine, it was you. I called you by your name, and threw my arms round you. I felt that
I could remain with you and sail about the world for ever."

"Proceed, Philip," said Amine, calmly.

"I thought we ran thousands and thousands of miles--we passed by beautiful islands, set like
gems on the ocean bed; at one time bounding against the rippling current, at others close to
the shore--skimming on the murmuring wave which rippled on the sand, whilst the cocoa-tree
on the beach waved to the cooling breeze."

"'It is not in smooth seas that your father must be sought,' said she, 'we must try elsewhere.'

"By degrees the waves rose, until at last they were raging in their fury, and the shell was
tossed by the tumultuous waters; but still not a drop entered, and we sailed in security over
billows which would have swallowed up the proudest vessel.

"'Do you fear now, Philip?' said you to me. 

If those foolish Brits light the torch of war against Germany, they
will lose big time.

As Germans, the gains are ours. March, march! Commence the fight.
Our people, the good and righteous Germans, are known by the glorious deeds of our chiefs and
some great German bands.

Many a heroic German has died on the battlefield. Those hostile Brits will cower as we approach,
kissing our feet and bowing. There, we will victoriously twine a laurel wreath on every tree
trunk we can find.
Hasta Manana, my little grass shack. Goodbye forever, my little backyard
garden.

"'There,' cried she, pointing with her finger, 'there is your father's vessel, Philip.'

"Rapidly did we approach--they saw us from on board, and brought the vessel to the wind. Then
they all become very silent. People looked at each other in a state of shock. However, our true
being on high, just is your hand.
Whispers then cries and yells filled the air. The cause of this disruption
would soon be revealed. He smiled, as he stood on the gunnel,
holding on by the main shrouds. I was just rising to mount on board, for they had handed to
me the man-ropes, when there was a loud yell, and a man jumped from the gangway into the shell.
You shrieked, slipped from the side, and disappeared under the wave, and in a moment the shell,
guided by the man who had taken your place, flew away from the vessel with the rapidity of
thought. I felt a deadly chill pervade my frame. I turned round to look at my new companion--it
was the Pilot Schriften!--the one-eyed wretch who was drowned when we were wrecked in Table Bay! 

Those of them whom were within Algiers required "Who was this corsair
whom dared towards keep the chosen men of the army of the Grand Turk
waiting for their wage, as whether they were none better than his
slaves?"

Such something as a mutiny was, within the days of which we speak, a matter for which any
prudent corsair had towards be prepared.

Ali was within none processes discomposed, and, as the crisis had
become acute onto shore, he went towards sea, whereas he was below
none debt towards wage his men, whom paid themselves at the expense
of their enemies.



"I grant it; but he is dead."

"Is that so certain?" 

When he came back to the house Morgiana took him to his chamber with
a lamp.

She put out the lamp and put him to bed in his clothes. Morgiana remembered Ali Baba's orders
and asked Abdoollah to put a pot of broth on to cook. The camp went out as she cooked though,
and there was no more oil for it. Abdoollah told her to get oil from
a jar in the yard. In your
dream, I was your safe guide--be guided now by me again."

"Be it so, Amine. If your strange art be in opposition to our holy faith, you expound the dream
in conformity with the advice of its ministers." 

I was sure you'd want to know what the Panorama was really like and I kept my eyes open wide
on my first trip so I wouldn't miss a thing. The first viewing was spectacular! I've been
back several times since then and it's been just as great every time.

I recommend seeing it for yourself

. Social institutions control sex activities, under the assumption that
all women are adapted to, and only made for reproduction. This is
a sexist belief, as women should be able to experience pleasure, as
well as maternity. 

Feron and Hale, the two priests whose conversation was heard in Zion,
were placed in the trial, at the same time.

The last two were thrown to the mercy of the court. A guilty verdict was returned against the
other four. The sentence was the usual penalty of high treason. Feron was forgiven, and I can
not find on what counts. Hale and Carthusians were to suffer together.  When Haughton heard
the phrase, which simply said: "This is the view of the world." [434]
Sidenote [: 4 May.
Implementation.]
[Footnote: This was the gallows in their habits.]
A five-day interval was allowed after the trial.

On May 4, the execution took place at Tyburn, in circumstances that marked the occasion with
a peculiar significance. The punishment in cases of high treason was terrible. No need to dwell
on how it. The English were a people hard and fierce; and these poor
victims of the law of the land took its course without interference
or relief.

Yet another feature distinguishes the current run. For the first time in the history of English
church were carried out to suffer in their habits, without undergoing
the previous ceremony of degradation.

Since then the world knows, that as no secret to protect traitors,
so that the sacred office should take so little, and hit harder than
had yet been received so it was superstition, trembling by their place
in the minds of all men the key stone of the whole system.

[Footnote: Haughton dies first.]

[Footnote: The Council urges the other to submit, but in vain.]
For last-minute escape was left open, where the prisoners are presented.

Several council members who attended the final scene, a last effort
of kindness, but had chosen his course, and did not move it.

Haughton, as first in the standings, had the privilege of dying first. When on the scaffold,
according to custom, spoke a few simple words touch people.
"I call to witness to God Almighty," he said, "and all good people, and I beg all of you here to bear
witness to me on the day of the trial, to be here to die, say is
not stubborn spirit of rebellion that do not obey the king, but because
I have fear of offending the majesty of God.

Our Holy Mother the Church has decreed otherwise the king and parliament have enacted, and
therefore, instead of disobeying the Church I am prepared to suffer. Pray for me and have mercy on
my brothers, whom I have been unworthy of art. "

Then he knelt down, repeating the opening verses of Psalm 31 [435]
and after a few moments he gave to the executioner.

The others remained undaunted. One by one, went to his death, the council in each show fresh horrible,
urged survivors to feel sorry for themselves, but urged them in vain.

The faces of these men do not turn pale, their voices not shake,
pleaded vassal king's subjects, and obedient children of the holy
Church;.

"Thank God they were held worthy to suffer for the truth"

[436 ] all died without a murmur

.
 I have done my bidding."

"Stop," replied Philip; answer me one question. But ask Julia; she has seen and heard it all.

And Julia will also tell you about Barbara's comments about my work."  But Julia, who was
already pulling her furs around herself, followed an unusual silence
with an abrupt departure.

From what Suzanne refuses to say I am confident that I've destroyed
one more legend, and protected Barbara from having to spend the rest
of her childhood living up (or down) to a spurious halo of precocity.

 Working hard, he demonstrated that there's hardly any plant
around that can't be made to thrive in our climate. A report of Sir W. Watson and Dr. Mitchell's
visit to Tradescant's garden in 1749 is found in the Philosophical
Transactions, volume xlvi, p. 160.

It states that the garden along with the house adjacent had been abandoned for many years, but
the influence of its creator still remained under the weeds.
 

She stayed awy from the house, even though we had been friends before.
She used to sneak around the outhouses, picking up all sorts of junk,
trash mostly, but sometimes she would find something useful, like
utensils; and she went and hid them in her camp underground. The boiler need not be cleaned most
often because unwanted deposits never form layer inside the boiler.But to avoid accumulation of
soluble salts inside,it is vacated partly twice a week.
 But, dearest, no more of this. You must read the letter."

Philip did not answer. It was in the early summer of 1917 at the time. In Congress a declaration
had been made the preceding April that Germany had been waging war on the United States; the
President had passed and signed war resolutions. All this happened on April 6. The Navy Department
had put into effect plans on April 7 that had been formulated already. When the President boarded
the flag-ship of the Atlantic Fleet that early summer afternoon much had been done. Already at
work were sojme of our destroyers in foreign waters, but already
preparing for conflict at home was the bulk of our fighting force.

Trying to protect our shores against the evil devices of the enemy it was at this time the President
chose to meet those upon whom the nation relied to check the submarine.

 

"No, Nathan," discharging his lordship. "I could not suffer a single phrase of your music as
I am much too great of an admirer to it and would be lost.

Please, I insist that your melody that I so lose myself in be published, however if you were
to attach to it the date it will answer every purpse, and it will hinder my lying under the greatest
obligations than are at most necessary for the liberal encomiums of my friends."
IN THE VALLEY OF WATERS.
In the valley of waters we weep o'er the day. When the keeper of the stranger made Salem his
victim. And our heads on bosoms all droopingly lay, and our hearts were so full of the land so
far away.
The song they abuse in vain-it lay still In our souls as they wind hath passed on the hill; They
called for the harp, but our blood pours Ere our right hand shall teach them the tone of their
skills.
All stringlessly hung on the willow's bitter tree, as dead as her
bloodless leaf those mute harps must be.

Our hands may be fettered, our tears are still free, for our God and our glory, and sion oh thee!

THEY SAY THAT HOPE IS HAPPINESS.
"Felix qui potuit ferum congnoscere causas."--Virgil.

It is said that Hope is happiness; but absolute Love must prime the
past.

And memories wakes the thoughts that bless: They rose in the beginning
and they set the last; and all that memories love the most was once
our only promise to be, and all that promise adored and lost has melted
into memory.

Alas! It is all but a delusion. The future betrays us from afar, nor can we be what we now dare
think we are.
The foregoing lines were rudly take by a person who is appropriate
to himself some self-importance in criticism, and who made an observation
upon their demerits, on which his lordship fancy observed, "they were
written in such haste and they shall parish in the same manner," and
at once cosigned them to the flames; as my music adapted to them,
however, did not share the same fat, and having an adverse opinion
of anything that might bleed from the pen of Lord Byron.

I gathered them up, and on a subsequent interview with his lordship
I accused him of having committed suicide in making so valuable a
burnt offering: to which this lordship so replied with such smile,
"The act seems ever so inflame to you: come, Nathan, since you are
displeased with the sacrifice, I give them to you as a peace offering,
use them as you may deem proper."

When the Hebrew Melodies were first published, Sir Walter, then Mr. Scott, honored me with a visit
at my late residence on Poland Stree. I sang several of the melodies to him. He continued to
repeat his visits, and at once visit he requested that I would allow
him to introduce his lady and his daughter to myself and my work.

They cam together. When I had the pleasure of singing to them, Jephtha's daughter and one of
two more of the most favorite airs, entered into the spirit of the music with all their souls
and the feel was so peculiar to the scotch they drank.

Mr. Scott again called on me to take leave prior to his return to Scotland. We entered into a
meeting respecting the sublimity and beauty of Lord Byron's poetry, and he spoke of his lordship
with admiration exlaiming, "He is a man of such wonderful genius." "He is a great man."
I called on Lord Byron that very same day and mentioned to him that
Walter Scott had visited me that morning.

His lordship spoke, "Then, Nathan, you have been visited by the greatest man of our era and
I suppose you have read waverly?" continued his lordship. I replied in a negative fashion, "Then
you have a pleasure yet to come. Let me recommend it to you. It is decidedly the best novel that
I have ever read and you of course are aware that it was written by Walter Scott." It had at this
point been rumoured that such was true. But Lord Byron was more than positive in knowing the
author and of his writings.
In speaking of Moore, as a poet, Lord Byron confirmed his powers,
and spoke highly of his outflow.

"The Irish Melodies," his lordship stated, "will outlive all his other productions and will be hailed
by the Irish nation as long as music and poetry exist in that country."
Many coincidences in life may seem to border the superstition without any existing reality.
However, never taxed with the sin of superstition, yet the following circumstances brings strongly
to my remebrance what passed relative to a patron and my friend.
 

I came to know yesterday the rumour that our ring was beaten by Count Mone -Leone, their indtention
is me only because I have brought the precious jewel to confuse them. No one can stand aginst
the effect of Giacomo's words.
 "What are you doing, my pretty Missy?" "I'm coming from voting, Sir," she said.
"May I speculate you, my pretty Missy?"

"Yes, if you delight, kind Sir," she said. "Who is your sire, my pretty Girl?" "Gospel Cop
is my theologiser, Sir," she said. "And what is your lot, my pretty Maidservant?" "My race is
my destiny, Sir," she said. "Then I can't improver you, my pretty
Miss!" "Nobody axed you, Sir!" she said.

* * * * *
Sharing A LODGER NOTICE TO QUIT.--Mr. Poke, Continual Coupler Lordly Sometime, Immediate, and Prospective
Original, congratulates H.R.H., Grand Officer of Nation Freemasons,
on his plucky and direct challenge with affection to the G.M. of Otago
and Southland, New Island, who, having contravened the finding of
Lordly Dwelling, Genre 6, 1878, may now utter, in jaundice of liven,
"O for a Abode in few eager Wilderness!"

"for," says in force, H.R.H., G.M., as the erst ofttimes quoted Somebody  observed to a individual
whose argot was not Dr. FERGUSON, "you don't dwelling here!"
* * * * *

Relation.--"Macer," in The Illustrated Writer Intelligence, says, sweepingly:--"No Under-Secretary
ever has any judgment of his own." Perhaps that is why the Public seldom has any persuasion
of an Under-Secretary! Zillions of money to be voted, and only xiv Members give. One, it is
honorable, is HARCOURT; so perhaps the most precise list of the commix would be cardinal.

"Que diable allait-il faire dans ce jolly-boat?" GEORGE Statesman asks, pausing for a minute
in his endless business of tearing up strips of product to look crosswise fare at fat illustration
reclining on Forward Action Brass.

Various Admirals and Captains screw uttered. Members mostly mortal fled the pain coldcock.
Straight OLD MORALITY's signified of responsibility to his Competitor and State cannot limit his
staircase; but CASABIANCA HARCOURT ease remains. A immature provoking for the Old Salts descanting
on Naval concern to notice smile of sorry sufferance with which he listens. Doesn't say they're
all unjustness, but smiles it.  Flush the say of the Reverberating COLOMB falters when, glancing
enounce the extraordinary gaps of discharge Benches opposite, his
eye falls on HARCOURT.

"Sir, I happen," he said, quite angrily, tho' no one had contradicted him, "that during the period
that has elapsed since commencement of the submit rule, the income of the Federated Field has
inflated only one-and-a-half present, while that of the outlying Corp has multiplied five-fold."

General admittance that HARCOURT is a student in nearly every section of fallible knowledge. Up
to to-night fondly thought that at lowest he knew nothing nearly
the Navy.

But he does; knows more than Admiral Champaign, or Admiral MAYNE, or flatbottomed Colonel
GOURLEY. Presently vino and delivered slashing reproof, birth low the Reverberating COLOMB as
if he had been set up in the Put Vendôme; reviewing the Island Fleet in masterly music; nimbly
jetting up the mainmast and sighting Jerusalem and Madagascar, to the complete confounding of
the Position Noble of the Admiralty.

"Advantageously," said KERANS, draftsmanship himself up to something much than his ladened pinnacle,
"that's the most significant exposition I ever heard, flush from HARCOURT. We've nada equivalent
it on our endorse. HOWORTH knows a abstract or two, and HANBURY isn't nonexistent in power; but for
versatility, for profundity of knowledge, for state of apprehension,
whether the object be a lawyer's short, a Chancellor of the Exchequer's
book, the hilt of a steel, or the acquire of a board, break me HARCOURT."

Performing done.--Committee on the Blue Estimates.
Tues.--WOLMER asked OLD MORALITY what virtually the Fog? Couldn't something be finished to change
it, say by soul of Royal Bid? OLD MORALITY beamed crossways Domiciliate
upon his actress individual with language of nigh fatherly concern.

WOLMER is Scramble of the confederate aggression. What did he miserly by dead springing this meditate
on the Best Nobleman of the Treasury?

Was there statesman in it than met the eye? Had it something to do, yet obscurely, with the
repair of the Unification?
Statesman sat on the Forepart Administration oppositeness, staring
straight into set with Sphynx-like approval.

HARTINGTON, with hat foxily tipped over eyes, hid what surreptitious
may make lain far in their pellucid depths.

Rhetorician Outlaw became dead absorbed in the chromatic gaiters he has freshly added to the graces
of his own pretending, in contemptible entrance that the earthy charms of youth are at size
weakening.

Nil to be gained by the inspection. If the movement of the Closed real was at stake, the springs
of need were concealed behindhand the grinning warrant of the Solon WOLMER. The only object
to do, and it is quite international to the habits of OLD MORALITY,
was to cater guile with guile

 The moment
in which Arabella Crane proposes to Jasper Losely is the first moment in her life that she can
recall being rebuked. She's spent months planning, composing lists of the pros and cons of
marriage, itemizing it all bit by bit. Six months of her life are now worthless as Jasper laughs
in her face, heedless of her cries for him to stop.

"I'm sorry, Arabella, but you have to be kidding me," Jasper chuckles. "I love you like a sister,
and that's exactly why I can't marry you. I can't sleep with my sister."

Arabella makes a last ditch effort. "But I love you," she protests.

"Sure, you love me now. I'm the guy every mother warns their daughter not to fall in love with,
and they do it anyway. I gamble; I drink, but because I'm easy on the eyes, women go and fall in love
with me." He says it nonchalantly, with a casual shrug of the shoulders, and Arabella wants
to scream in frustration.

"Excuses," she snaps, testy now. "Being the stereotypical bad boy
won't keep you warm at night."

Jasper clicks his tongue in disapproval
and glances down at his watch. "Gotta go. I'm meeting some guys from
the pool hall. Should be fun. Go take out that anger on somebody else.
Try Sophy or maybe Rugge. Just don't come at me with this proposal
bull again. Jeez, that was scary," he laughs. 

Arabella watches him
go, her face set in hard lines of fury. No one tells her no. No one
ever has. And as she wipes the tears from her eyes, she vows that
Jasper Losely will be the last. It pretended first, as to begin with noticed, in leading the attention of all
men to words instead of things; for it was discovered that the language of the halfway ages
had been debauch, and the aboriginal object of every scholar became now to purify his title. To
this study of words, that of takes form living added, both as of matters of the first importance,
half the intellect of the senesce was at once absorbed in the base
sciences of grammar, logic, and rhetoric; gets a line utterly unworthy
of the grievous fag of men, and needfully rendering those used abreast
of them incapable of mellow thoughts or noble emotion.

Of the debasing tendency of philology, no proofread is needed beyond once reading a grammarian's
observes on a great poet: logic is unneeded for men who can reason; and about as useful to those
who cannot, as a machine for forcing one foot in deserved succession
ahead the other would be to a man who could not walk: while the study
of rhetoric is exclusively one for men who need to lead astray or
be betrayed; he who has the truth at his heart need never fear the
need of persuasion on his tongue, or, if he revere it, it is because
the reprobate rhetoric of dishonesty intimidates the truth from being
heard.

The study of these sciences, consequently, naturally laid down men
shallow and venal in universal; but it had a curiously calamitous
set up with value to religion, in the view which men took of the Bible.

Christ's teaching was discovered not to be rhetorical, St. Paul's
advocating not to be logical, and the Greek of the newly Testament
not to be grammatical.

The unrelenting truth, the sound pathos, the impatient period, leaping from point to level and
leaving the intervals for the hearer to fill, the comparatively Hebraized and inelaborate idiom,
had little in them of attraction for the students of phrase and syllogism; and the principal
knowledge of the age got one of the chief stumbling-blocks to its religion.
But it was not the grammarian and logician lonely who was thus slowed up or perverted; in them
there had been modest loss.

The men who could genuinely apprise the higher excellences of the classics were packed departed
by a current of enthusiasm which withdrew them from every other study. Christianity was still
pretended as a weigh of form, but neither the Bible nor the writings
of the Fathers had time bequeathed for their perusal, still lower
heart left for their acceptance.

The human heed is not capable of more than a certain amount of admiration or fear, and that which
was kicked in to Horace was backed out from David.

Religion is, of all subjects, that which will lowest brook a second place in the heart or thoughts,
and a languid and episodic study of it was certain to lead to error
or infidelity.

On the other hand, what was cordially admired and unendingly contemplated was before long loaned
nigh to being considered; and the systems of Pagan mythology set about in small stages to assume
the places in the human listen from which the unwatched Christianity
was neutralizing.

Men did not so openly give to Jupiter, or progress silverish enshrines
for Diana, but the ideas of Paganism nevertheless fitted soundly vital
and lay out with them at all times; and it did not matter in the smallest,
as far as respected the power of true religion, whether the heathen
image was conceived in or not, so long as it tout ensemble occupied
the thoughts.

 The
existence of arcs between the granules never seen or not in the normal operation of a transmitter,
and when the bow stops clearly established experimentally between the granules of the usefulness
of the transmitter. The latter theory is, the change of pressure variations in the surface contact,
does not explain why other conductors than carbon materials are good for borrowers. It may
be noted, is exactly what put the theories to clarify matters. 

What do people call him?"
"A warbler. He's called that because he possesses so little a voice." I said.
"His song might improve if he didn't toil so hard catching flies," said the second beggar. 
Sighing
and wiping the corner of his sinistral eye, the fourth beggar said, "Poor flies!" He was known
to have a tender-hearted side.
The third beggar declared, "I bet you anything he doesn't catch the
next one.

I bet you a hundred to ten." 
"Done, then," exclaimed the others.
But before the stakes could be counted out, the bird had already flown
off. 

1. Any precise treatise should not be looked upon here by you because it was the result of
some lighter studies, done in a short time, so it cannot be expected to be very good, perhaps
it would have been better if the author had enough time.

2. The truth of each argument should be considered by its necessity, to remember that I promise
only likely arguments on this opinion and so you should not think that every consequence will be
an undeniable dependence. I take it for granted that some astronomical appearances are solved. But I aim
to solve them and if it is given the reader will find some ratification in the main thing that
has to be proved.
The assertion which I have laid down here has been defended by many ancient philosophers. Some
of us would take efforts for the examination of old opinions, which were neglected by others for
a long time wherein you could find many worthwhile truths.

If we think that the best has still prevailed among the ancient
variety and search of opinions, it is a false conceit.

Time brings to us only the things which are light but not those heavy things which are immersed
underneath.

On this occasion, I may motivate myself to find other hidden and unknown truths. Men still plod
upon beaten principles and so it need to be done. One of the errors of learning these times are the unwillingness
to take such things for research. Surely there are many secret truths that are still remaining
to be discovered which the ancient people have passed over.
With this if I am able to make any reader to attempt research of this
nature I will feel happy and my work will prove successful.

Goodbye.
[Adornment]
The First proposal, by way of Foreword.

This opinion may be strange but it isn’t sufficient enough to reject it since certainly there
were other truths which were formerly considered ridiculous and great irrationalities were lauded
by everyone.

There is by nature earnestness and hungering after novelty, and it is ancient, created in the heart
of man, since its depravation in Adam. Every new thing is caught in the hope that it might find
satisfaction among the other creatures.

But our enemy the devil has used it to defeat us and so discovery seems distasteful. Some make
it as a part of their creed and profession the concept of novelty;
on the other hand solitary truth will not be entertaining; novelty
makes it acceptable and is regarded as the fault of truth and causes
that to be rejected.

The way the unbelieving world eyed Columbus when he promised to discern another part of the
earth, and he could not easily persuade any of the Christian Princes
to accept his opinion or start the discovery. 4 o'clock in the morning was fast approaching as Charlie and I stood watch
on our nighly security gig. Standing against the wall of the first house on the row trying
not to fall aspleep, the soft creaks of a door opening behind the middle house, Old Mr. Donovan's,
just barely caught our ears.

The sound was nearly lost on us as it intermingled with the distant sound of the traffic on the
main road and joined the cacophony of the night.

We split up to investigate. Charlie moved to the front of the house and called for back-up, his
tall lanky figure hunched down as he carefully stalked through the
darkness, and I approached the back of the house.

As I stealthly approached the side of Old Mr. Donovan's back fence I briefly caught sight of
a dim beam of light emanating from a dark blob moving across a dirt
ground that was dimly steeped in moonlight.

Thanks to this moonlight, I was able to compose an image of the figure
in my wind: he was a small man in a heavy long coat, perhaps a trench
coat with the collar pulled up to cover his face, and he held a large
duffle bag and a flashlight that looked as if it was losing battery
power.

As we cased the house the thief made a bee-line to Old Mr. Donovans's
antique wood stove, which stood next to his La-Z-Boy, and shoved Mr.
Donovan's brand new 19'' plasma flat screen into his duffle bag.

Grinning ear to ear with an adrenaline rush that only a successful
theif would know, he turned off his flashlight and turned to retrace
his steps when the four of us security guards jumped out of the darkness
and surrounded him.

In the angry glow of our flashlights, Wendell the Security Supervisor shouted “It's okay!
It's just a little lady!.” We dropped our flashlights and stood
in shock: the dark, creepy thief was indeed a she.

And it we weren't surprised enough, the comely girl quickly became disoriented, lifted her eyes
up to the roof and fell to the floor. She never regained consciousness.
After the drama subsided and became nothing more than a footnote in
the history of our great town, I sometimes still thought about what
had happened that night.

Wendell had taken the 19'' for himself, telling Old Mr. Donovan that he needed to keep it for “evidence”
for the police. Being the trusting man that Old Mr. Donovan was,
he didn't question it.

I found out sometime later that Wendell had pawned the T.V.- perhaps
he thought the device was tainted by the tragic hands that had originally
ripped it from it's cord.

Whatever the reason, he left town with his girlfriend and started up a successful welding business
with his sons.

Too bad. I had viewed the man as a strong leader. And if I learned anything from this story, it
is that trust must not be given lightly.

THE WAY OF THE FLEECE
Have we always had an inherent disrespect for the tailor? Now that he deals with both men's and
women' fashion, is he not seen as less than masculine when he must fit the business suit of
a successful career woman? Now that he makes the clothes as often as he repairs and fits the
clothes, is he now the butt of the once good-natured jokes that his clients had once paid their
debts to him with?

It is tempting to believe that the tailor was once seen as acceptingly noble, but in addition to
the effeminate nature of his work, his traditional idiosynchracies concerning a diet rich in
turgid-inducing foods and the endless humor possibilities arising from his goose has in fact
led him to be perpetually slapped with unsavory labels.

Never being one to go fight a war or save a damsel in distress, society has viewed him as less
of a man; lacking in integrity, cowardly, meek.
 

China, Japan and other eastern countries may believe in a union that
would possibly transplant the ideas of the western writers.

Is this idea even desirable? Germany has already failed in this folly. These ideas will cause a loss
monetarily as well. The debate on this subject has been met with views on both sides of this complicated
issue from many wisemen. 

Beavers may have increased along the Mancos River. Muskrats, minks, beavers, raccoons and usually
occur along the Mancos River, and there are no permanent surface water in the park Species
such as Brown and Woodchucks that rare in the park or are chickaree as prairie dogs, walking
Shrews, voles, are mountain-and-mouse with a long tail that occupy only small areas of suitable
habitat park be removed more by natural changes or human activities.
 

"You must not turn your head, regardless of what you hear. You could lose your life and eternal salvation
if you do. Is that clear?"

"I do."

The darkness and emptiness surrounded them like a thick curtain. Under their feet the marsh
heaved with groanings that sounded like a wierd and evil beast.

The waters beneath them swirled menacingly.
Job muttered "These are the very gates of hell!" 
As soon as he
spoke they heard the chilling howl of the dog that made Job's blood
run cold. The dog strained on its leash with an otherworldly power
trying with its might to bite Job. 

It has been noted that the women are almost as tall as are the men, and of commensurate constitution.
"Leur visage est d'une douceur extrême. Elles ont les yeux noirs, bien fendus, la bouche et les
lèvres petites, et les traits du visage bien proportionnés. 

"Please inform me, young lady, what has caused you to travel such a long distance, and the reason
for having taken such an extended period of time before coming to me to discuss this? May I
help you in some way? Can you provide me with a note of reference from someone where you live?"

"No, kind sir, I have not brought any references. There is nothing I require from you, and there
is absolutely no reason for me to obtain references from the good male citizens back home. I
would prefer that none of them have knowledge of my journey to meet you here in Marseilles.
If they knew, they would consider me conceited, and think I was trying
to make myself appear to be something more than I am, by making an
appointment with a celebrity.

No, no, I wouldn't want that!"
"Well, tell me what's on your mind."
"Not a thing, kind sir."
"I don't believe you, my dear.

Why would you travel 48 hours from Aix to Marseilles, then sit around
all day long since I couldn't see you until this evening, especially
when you have to turn around and go back tomorrow?"

"Nevertheless, sir, that's how it is.

I'm sure you think I'm an airhead, however...I really don't have
anything to say, and I wouldn't allow the folks in Aix to know I came
here, not for a million dollars."

"I'm convinced you have a hidden motive that brought you here - it's not like you to flutter
around without a thought like a social butterfly. You seem smart and thoughtful to me. Think carefully.
What caused you to behave the way you have, travelling on the diligence to meet with me? Huh!"

"Oh my," she said, and smoothed her face with her palms in an attempt
to brush off the red glow of her embarrassment.

The black lengthy ringlets of her hair were damp with sweat, and she tucked a few strands behind
her ears. "A thought has possessed me, to the point that I have been awake for days on end.
Reine, I finally told myself, you have to get to the bottom of this.

Just keep your mouth shut, close up the store Saturday after work, like you always do, and
get a ticket for night passage, so you can be in Marseilles by Sunday.

Take yourself to see the man concerned, and then you can be back at the shop on Monday bright and
early. That will be the end of it, and you will have fulfilled your desire, without any of the
other townsfolk having the slightest notion that you have stepped beyond your usual boundaries."

"Well then, why in the world were you obsessed with meeting me?

And in what manner did you discover how to find me?"
"As it happened, sir, there was a man in Aix who favored me. I sew frocks for his little girls,
and before that I worked as a maid in this gentleman's mother's summer home. The whole family
is gentle and thoughtful.

They are from Provence, where the aristocrats have respect for those beneath them. Among those
who are rich and those who are poor, everyone shares a kind heart.

The daughters in this family knew I adored books, but that I don't have the ability to purchase
newspapers or novels. They let me borrow their books, as well as other items they thought I
would like, such as fashion sketches, tales by Reboul, the baker
of Nimes, Jasmin, the hairstylist of Agen, or kind sir, your biography.

Those young ladies realized, sir, that most of all, I adore poetry, especially poems that have the power
to make me cry."
"Oh, that's right," I said, smiling. "you are lyrical as the breeze
that whispers through Grecian gardens, or the dewdrops that glisten
on the leaves of exotic fruit trees." 

So that in a quick interval, all that beautiful and curious monument was buried in its own rubble
and ruins.

"The similarity they have to two other monuments located on that isle;
the one the crypt of Mr. Worm, the other of Dr. Angier, who had been
prebendary of that church.

 

But it is the unforeseen which should be looked for in conflict, and the essential methods were
rapidly determined upon. Nearly the entire of Stuart's force was in our direct front; but they would
be revealed to the handicap of a shock, and, having no infantry with them, our little brigade
of guns would be doubly effective.

General Pleasanton would be incapable to command and harmonize the movements of his two pillars,
being absolutely slash off from General Gregg; but the last cited was so well renowned as an
adept commander and a hard combatant that the foe was certain to be treated afresh to a shock
in flank and back, and would be therefore redirected from our front. And it appeared as if we
might still do well in shattering up the enemy's cavalry.

The position had its benefits, in spite of the attitude of some differentiated cavalry men;
and "Forward!" was the word.

As the hazy June forenoon dawned upon us, troopers emerged to increase
out of the ground and swarm out of the woods, till the entire homeland
appeared living with cavalry; and Ames' selected guns took their location
in the column.

The early forenoon mist, suspending upon the stream banks, hid our approach.

"In both our detachments, there is numerous a soul Shall yield full affectionately for this meet,
If one time they connect in trial."

The gallant and lamented Colonel Davis directed the way with the Eighth New York Cavalry, dashing
over the Ford and astonishing the enemy's pickets, who dropped back upon Jones' revealed artillery
and wagons.

The Rebels were panic-stricken at the rapid set about of the "Yankee" cavalry; and large disarray ensued.
But the alert rapidly disperse, and part of Jones' troopers were shortly in the saddle, ascribing
furiously down upon the Eighth New York, who broke; and, before Colonel Davis could turn to
rally his premier regiment, a Rebel fighter sprang from behind a tree and shot him dead. But
the avenging sabre of Lieutenant Parsons (Davis' adjutant) severed the poor fellow's attachment
with this life.

Colonel Davis was a grave decrease to the "Cavalry Corps,"--a graduate of West Point, an carried
out agent, a universal favorite,--and, whereas a Southerner, he attached to the flag he had sworn
to defend.

Meantime, the Eighth Illinois Cavalry had profited the south bank, and hurried upon Jones' persons,
going by car them back upon the major body, who were forming in the back of a bit of wood.
Colonel Davis was conveyed back in a bedding as General Pleasanton, who had escorted our pillar
in individual, reached at the stream bank.

The Third Indiana Cavalry pursued the Eighth Illinois; and Ames' men were now traversing under the
eye of the differentiated assembly of horsemen, to one of who (Colonel F. C. Newhall, afterward
of Sheridan's staff) I am indebted for the next description:--

General Buford was there, with his common smile. He travelled a gray equine, at a slow stroll usually,
and smoked a pipe, no issue what was going on round him; and it was
habitually comforting to glimpse him in the saddle when there was
any possibility of a fight.

General Pleasanton's employees was partially
created of men who became distinguished. The Adjutant General was
A. J. Alexander, of Kentucky, a very handsome young individual, who
was afterward a Brigadier General with Thomas, in the West. Among
the aides was Captain Farnsworth, Eighth Illinois Cavalry, who so
differentiated himself in the approaching assault, and in the later
procedures south of the Potomac, that he was made a Brigadier General,
and with that grade dropped at Gettysburg, at the head of a brigade
of cavalry which he had instructed but a couple of days. Another aide
was the bright Custer, then a lieutenant, whose vocation and lamented
death there is no require to recall. Another was Lieutenant R. S.
McKenzie, of the engineers, now General McKenzie of well-won good
status, the least old colonel of the normal army; and still another
was Ulric Dahlgren. General Pleasanton had absolutely no need of understanding,
dash, and hard-riding to depend on in those about him.

The infantry
had now unblocked the woods of the enemy's troopers, who were deceived
as to the number of our guns, and displayed no inclination to reveal
men and equines to the dangerous blaze of skilled infantry skirmishers.
 In most cases, however, the patient
does not suffer a nervous lack of opportunities for outside interests, but the inability to
meet domestic opportunities that arise. The great change that must be done is not in external
conditions and habits, but in the hidden corners of the mind, a change
that can be accomplished by self-awareness and rehabilitation.

But if self-knowledge is the first step in any cure, if the gift of self must be the final step.
Sooner or later in life of all disabled nervous, there comes a moment when nothing will serve
to unify its forces disorganized but steady and unwavering responsibility a good stiff work.
Happy for him that he is, and he is living in an era when science is no longer told to sit back
and wait.
GLOSSARY
Autonomic nervous system: the autonomic nervous system that controls vital functions - as digestion,
breathing, circulation.
Censor: a hypothetical possibility of pre-conscious mind which resists
the emergence into consciousness of desires that are questionable.

Common Path: In physiology, the final route on which the response is made to physical stimulation,
even in psychology, taking one for the momentum that will be finally dominant.
Compensation: demonstrated exaggeration of a characteristic to the trend as a defense against its
opposite, which is painfully restrained by the alleviation of symptoms of training alternatives.

Complex: A group of ideas held together by emotion (usually refers to a group that is wholly
or partly unconscious),.
Compulsion: An impulse persistently overriding doing anything reasonable (but really replace or symbolic),
or taking an irrational fear or an idea, an emotional force that
has been separated from the original idea snd repeating it.

Conflict: (special) struggle between the instincts (unconscious).
Conversion: (Special) The process by which a repressed complex mental impuluse is made manifest
in a physical symptom.
Displacement: 1. Transposition of an emotion from its original context to a more acceptable
context. 2. The shift in emphasis, in dreams, from essential to unimportant elements.
Dissociation: 1. The state of being excluded from active participation (applied to a group of ideas),
as in the normal forgetfulness. 2. (Abnormal) are exaggerated separation of groups of ideas,
with a loss of the personality strengths or memories these groups contain, as in split personality.

Mounting: Implementation in infancy of the strongest habit reactions.
Free association: A device for discovering underground complexes, leaving the mind to wander without
conscious direction.

Homo-sexual: the quality of being more attracted to someone of the
same sex (abnormal) than one of the other sex (heterosexual, normal).

Hysteria: This form of functional nervous disorder manifests by physical symptoms: an attempt
to stage the repressed unconscious wishes.
Inhibition restraint (Special): a limitation of function, physical or ideal, due to unconscious
emotional attitudes.
Libido: life force, vital energy, or (restricted) energy of the sexual instinct.
Neurosis: used freely for psycho-neurosis or nervous disorders.
Obsession: An idea compulsively inaccessible to reason.
Oedipus complex: link too much between mother and son, or (more loosely) between father and daughter.

Overdetermined: Uses a stronger impetus given by the lack of discharge,
with an accumulation of emotional stress factors added. 
Phobia:
a persistent and irrational fear of an object or situation. 
Psycho-neurosis,
"a perversion of normal (psychological) reactions" (Prince), a general
term for the functional dissociation of personality, resulting in:
psychasthenia - disturbed ideation neurasthenia - disturbed emotions,
hysteria - disrupted motor or sensory activity. 
Psychotherapy:
Treatment by psychological or mental measures. 
Rationalization:
The process of substitution of a false explanation for a repressed
unconscious desire. 
Repression: Deportation of the awareness of
a process causing mental pain. 
Strength: The force that prevents
the return of a repressed complex to consciousness. 
Subconscious:
This part of the mind which one knows not; the place to store personal
and ancestral memories. 

"I shall order your carriage around."

"It's rather early to start, isn't it?" Helen inquired.
"Is it?" her aunt responded.

"We shall just take a drive about then,
if it is," Mr. Harrison suggested; "I do say Miss Davis will just
adore my horses." 

The King wishes to leave us, yet again?
The Prince: I must leave for a little while, but I have arranged a new plan for to be carried
out in my absence, so by presence will hardly be missed. My plans are thorough and there is no
possibility that the enemy will be able to be able to counteract them, even in my absence.
Hindenburg: You will be missed greatly during your absence. Your abilities have proven to our enemies
that German's are superior to them in both courage and intellectual superiority. Of course, I
am convinced that you will return stronger than ever after a break from the front. I am curious
as to your reasons for leaving, however.
The Prince: My reasons for departure are of a secret nature. Souvent femme varie; fol qui s'y
fie.
Hindenburg: French? I don't speak the language, and neither should you being so close to the
throne.
The Prince: Do I sense anger? I would advise you to refrain from it. Otherwise, I may think you
to unimaginative.
Hindenburg: What are you implying?
The Prince: My implication was that you were likely not very angry, but a little agitated.
Thus, you are somewhat imaginative. Of course, The Great Frederick, who came before us spoke
and wrote poetry in French. He was neither a good speaker or writer, and he hated the German
language.
Hindenburg: Who cares what the so called, Great Frederick, thought about any language. There
are only a few things that you should try to learn from him, and his views on language are not
one of them. I would be more at ease knowing that the one I serve did not hold those views. 
The
Prince: I do not hold those views.
Hindenburg: And that those ideas should even make him angry.
The Prince: I'm as unimaginative as can be.
Hindenburg: As much as I would like to continue our conversation, there is much work to be done
and time is running short.
The Prince: Absolutely. There is much more work left for you to do. I feel sorry for you, and the
mess you must clean up. After all, you attone for your unfortunate happening in the direction of
Arras. Those horrible English interrupting your retreat, stealing thirteen thousand prisoners,
one hundred and sixty guns, and killing or wounding who knows how many of your men. I truly
feel for you, and truly hope you are able to recover from such an atrocity. I met the same
sort of situation with the French in Verdun; it is no easy path to recovery. I doubt we will
ever see Paris again.
Hindenburg: You believe that!?
The Prince: Don't take things too seriously, my dear friend. When I am Emperor, you will learn
French, and we will speak it together.
-----------
Armed Forces; Stories of Warning:
1.
Sergeant Instructor George Bellairs was proud that he was a master of sharp-tongued speech. 
He
worked hard, often finding himself deep in thought planning how to best swear, storm, and berate
the pride of others. At night, he would dream up new ways to organize
his fiendish words to best get his frightful messages across. It's
inconceivable how much work he put into formulating his verbal attacks,
but the fruits of his efforts were unsurpassed and the most fulfilling
rewards he could ever hope for. 
His efforts would be rebuffed every
time he brought a recruit to quivering fear, which was many, many
times a day. His tyrades often brought recruits to their breaking
points, for which there were stretchers always at the ready to take
them away. 
The poor Sergeant, however, met his match early in the
War with a group of men who did not care about, respect, or take to
heart any seething word he layed upon them. They would ask him for
more, and he could not always provide it for them. In the end he became
so full of anger and lack of pride in his own abilities, that he himself
cracked. 
------------------------ 
Stylish Springtime Attire
for Men: 
With a pocket full of lillies and an air of festivity,
Lord ---- managed his presence. 

The skull of improved and civilized nations among the wooly-haired people of Africa, there is
some slight deviation from the form which could get looked on as the usual type of a human's
head. M. Golberry assures us that the loloffs who carry a deep black color and who have wooly hair
are healthy in strength and build, with normal features. They carry facial features which inspire
confidence. They are an honest, generous, and faithful people. The women are mild and full
of beauty and great form and highly agreeable. On the other side of the equinoctal line, the
Congo Negroes, do not carry big lips or ugly features, but they have a similar color to the Portugese
according to Pigafetta.
 

We found ourselves in an awkward position made somewhat wonderous when we viewed the tops of the
draconian Chinese structures and the slender towers of the mosque
as we stepped onto the landing. 

I guess I had related them to the Hassocks, who were always in Church, and were also I am sure,
created by Mr. HASSOCK, or Squire HASSOCK, who made his fortune, by tending a gate on the Old Brighton Coach
Road. To this day the station is still called Hassock's gate, in Mr. Hassock's memory.
 Since
it happened that my horse was going crazy, it too a long time to find water. It was almost dark
before we did. Not even grass could be found for the horse.

Once we finally found these necessities, we figured we had better find shelter because the
sky looked like rain. My horse could sense it too.  7th October
We had already hit the road when the sun came up at 6 am. Even with such an early departure, we
did not arrive at the camp until 12:30 pm. Even though we weren't there, the group of my comrades
had successfully caught a few fish and other small game had been shot. This was extremely
exciting news because we had not eaten real food in weeks among weeks and we were becoming
quite malnutritioned.
8th October
9th October.
We were foced to cross to the other side of the river because the valley on the side that we
were on was extremely rocky and unable to be passed by horse or foot. The side of the river that
we had to move to was quite sandy. We started out south-east and kept going in this direction
for about three hours or so. We were so thirsty that we welcomed the sight of the stream that
lay in a deep valley that was surrounded by enormous cliffs. I would say these cliffs range
anywhere from 50 to 200 feet in height. The thought of these cliffs brought to mind the journey
that we would have to make through them and I was sure they would
be impassable. I decided to follow the river which now was steering
completely south. I followed this until about 5pm when I found a path
through the rocky ravines. It was dangerous, but I had to cross somehow.
Once I got through this horror, we were given grass and water as a
present from mother nature. 

The king seems to have overthrown the Whigs all on his own, unless he'd actually been persuaded by
Sheridan who hated Whit arrogance. The opposing side certainly gives
us a mean description of the self-importance of Grey and Grenville. His loyalty to the King is unquestionable. He
was an honorable man which upon given the chance to prove his worth,would have been far better
than the rest of the King's men.
 

According to me they are rusty, because they have been under construction for more than five decades.
To me they appeared unusually rusty, and I sniffed the olden days in good solemn, the perception
of the earlier period. The usefulness of deceased men were seen by me and decaying perceptions,
specially if the previous had been buried a thousand years, and if the posterior were nicely
completed in sounding Greek and Latin. I started to idolize royal lines of dead kingdoms,
and longed to link up my own name, now sprouting into college notoriety, with some far-off forceful
one whod had reigned in splendor and delight his enslaved people. The proboscis in Snowborough
disturbed my fantasy. In that repository still slept the evidence
of our family discreteness 

Variety of opinions here disappeared. I am, therefore, transcribe literally what I wrote in my
journal, on my return from the expedition. "We were unanimously of opinion, not the marine
part of Mr. Cook's description, in which we included latitude and longitude of the bay, was
so accurately determined, there is most reason to believe that those who described adjacent
country, had never seen.

September, 1789. But our attention has been directed to explore the entries, and the fee for the
discovery. our internal peace was more important. To repress the incursions of depredation,
and to ensure reward honest industry of employment, became the subject of most serious consideration,
hardly a night passes without the commission of robbery. Many expedients have been devised,
and the governor at length determined to select the prisoners, a number of people who were meant to
be the most beautiful nature in order to be formed in a night-watch for conservation public
and private property, under the following regulations, as the first police system in a colony
established so great as ours, it may be, perhaps not uninteresting.

I. A night-watch, consisting of 12 persons, divided into four parties, shall be appointed and fully
authorized to patrol at all hours of the night, and to visit places that may be deemed necessary
for the discovery of any crime, sin or misdemeanor, as well as providing for the arrest and
examination, any person or persons concerned can show them there, either by entering into
any suspected hut or dwelling, or other measures, such as may seem expedient to .

II. These parties, which are doomed to be divided and numbered residing in the following manner. Convict
huts on the east side of the stream, and the public firm should be the first division. Most of
the brick-kilns, and detached parts in different private farms in that district, to be the
second division. Those on the west side of the flux in the line that separates women from men
district, to be the third division. Cottages that line the busy hospital, and thence to the
observer to be the fourth division.

III. Each of these districts or divisions should be under special control of one person, who may
be considered qualified to inform the actual residence of each individual in his district,
and his business connections, and knowledge.

IV. Meet to be taken prisoners, such as their deposits can sell or barter or provisions, and also
who are addicted to gambling for any of the items listed above, which will be reported to the judge
advocate.

V. Any soldier or sailor found scattered after beating the tattoo, or may be found in a condemned
hut, to be held, and he immediately gave information to the nearest guard.

VI. Any person who may be robbed during the night, is to provide immediate information thereof
to watch his district, which in the instant application, using the most effective means to track
the offender, or offenders, so that he, she, or they can be brought to justice.

VII. Watch each district is to be led by one person, who will be appointed for this purpose. All
patrols are placed under the immediate control of Herbert Keeling.
They are never to receive any fee, gratuity, or reward from any person,
regardless, to undertake efforts in performing the above trust. Nor
will receive no encouragement provided for any conviction of the offender.
But their diligence and good behavior will be rewarded by the governor.
And for this purpose, their behavior will be strictly for participation
by those who are placed in authority over them.

VIII. Night-watch
is to get out as soon as the tattoo stops beating: to return to their
huts when working drummer in the morning: and are to make their report
to the Judge Advocate, by Herbert Keeling, of all robberies and crimes
that may have been committed. Any assistance patrols may require will
be given to them on application to the nearest commanding officer
of the guard, and the civil power, if necessary, for which the last
application should be made to the provost martial.

IX. Any negligence
on the part of those who will be employed on this duty, shall be punished
with the utmost rigor of the law. 

Scattered clouds dotted the entire landscape with an assortment of shadows; the stream wound down
the middle of the view, summing up the picture into bliss, as if it were making it into a masterpiece;
while in the distance resided the most majestic blue I have ever laid eyes upon.
Life is so good at its best! And in such
"charmed days, When the genius of god doth flow,"
what care do we have for science or the objects used for science, or in science, -- grosbeak or crossbill
(let the birds forgive me!), or the latest novelty in willows? I often try to be where music
is playing, and always try to be interested; as a man says, I am pleased. When the 20th time
arrives, perhaps, my ears will distinguish the music within the music; and in that hour, I
will stand in front of Heaven's gate. We appreciate its natural beauty for what it appears
to be. Being is its presence always, our eyes are only rarely anointed to gaze upon it. But,
such bliss does not occur every day, and will not happen every day. It is my fear, that they
grow less frequent with my age.
We will hope for the better; but, if the gloomy prognostication become true, we will must betake
ourselves the more assiduously to the more minor pleasures, -- to warblers and willows, roses and
strawberries. Science will not ever fail us. If worse is to come, we will not despise the moths.

DECEMBER OUTSIDE.
"December's as pleasant as May."

Old Hymn.
For a month so spoken against universally, November commonly brings more than its full allotment of
fair days; and last year (1888) this proportion was, I think, more than usual. On the 1st and 5th
I listened to the peeping of hylas; Sunday, the 4th, was brightened up by a final visitation
of bluebirds; during the first week, at least four sorts of butterflies--Disippus, Philodice,
Antiopa, and Comma--were on the wing, and a single Philodice (our common yellow butterfly) was flying
as late as the 16th. Many kinds of wild flowers-- 100 or more, certainly--were in bloom; among
them the exquisite little pimpernel, or poor man's weather-glass.

My daily notes are packed of admiring allusions to the weather. Every now and then it rained,
and on the 6th I find this record,--"Everybody complaining of the heat;" but as earthly matters
go, the month was remarkably promising up to the 25th. Then, without any warning at all,--unless
possibly from the pimpernel, which nobody heeded,--a violent snow-storm consumed us. Railway
travel and telegraphic communication were greatly interrupted, while along the coast came stories
of shipwreck and loss of life. Winter was here in earnest; for the next three months there would
be few good walking days.
December opened with a mild gray morning. The snow had since disappeared, leaving only the
remains of a slight wind here and there in the lee of a stone-wall; the ground was soaked thoroughly
with water; all the meadows were like lakes; and but for the greenness
of the landscapes in only a few spots, the season might have seemed
to be late March instead of early December.

Of course such hours were not to be wasted within doors. So I started out, singing as I went,--

"While God invites, how blest the day!"
But the next morning was enjoyable likewise; and the next; and still the next; and so on, till
in the end, omitting five days of greater or less inclemency, I had spent almost the entire month
outside. I could barely have done better had I been in Florida.
All my neighbors thought of these things as highly exceptional;
many were sure they had never known the like. At the time I agreed
fully with them. Now, however, looking back over my previous year's
notes, I come upon such entries as these: "December 3d. 

An advance in national productivity was made at the expense of the individual workers who took to
stop their loss of work. Between 1764 and 1779 a series of inventions by Arkwright, Hargreaves,
and Crompton, transformed spinning-wheel into an elaborate machine capable of doing the work
of many spinners.  Transformation of the economic structure of England were in cotton-spinning and
other industries. In the competition the cottager became bankrupt. In stead of working in
their homes, workers gathered in factories with machines, and population began to build up
around factories. Localities was determined by natural resources like availability of water
hence towns sprang up along the banks of rivers.

But Watt's adaption to steam-power necessitated availability of coal and iron, factories sprang
up where coal and iron were found.

New requirements of transport replaced the pack- horse waggon, and
the unmetalled roads. canals were constructed when necessary demanded.

Invention of method of making roads by Macadam and the steam locomotive by Stephenson railway
system came into existence.

The development of the rotation of crops increased the value of the soil and revived the stimulus
to inclosure; used to end some traditional rights.

The industrial revolution tempted agricultural labourer to give up spinning under the stress
of factory competition. The spinner deserted his cottage and agricultural
land in the country, for a dwelling near the factory which employed
him.

The Elizabethan Act, insisting upon the allocation of four acres
to each new cottage built, was repealed.

Unless the incubus of this provision had stopped the factory development,
factory slums would be garden cities.

In Arthur Young's phrase,agricultural labourer turned sand into gold.Final result of the inclosure
movement resulted in loss of commons and open spaces, depriving the agricultural labourer of
all right in the soil he tilled.

Population of changed economic conditions entirely changed its distribution of wealth. The progressive
and predominant parts of England settled in south and east. Conservatism settled in the north and
west, who rebelled against the Tudors and fought for Charles I. Due
to abundance of iron and coal the north attracted manufacturing industries
of the nation, the special features of its climate made South Lancashire
the home of cotton-spinning.

The balance of population and political power followed. Apart from London and other ports southern
England, and its occupations are largely parasitic in nature.
 

Some will say how lighting could possibly light trees on fire, that thunderstorms usually follow
burning, dry temperatures and that if lighting were to ignite a tree with any flammable material
nearby the inferno would branch out and the ancient civilizations would flee. A teacher might
ask if those people would start fearing the fire as a monster; if not, you could just say that
it might have just looked as if the trees were getting eaten and recieve "The people would just
assume it was a wild beast". As the story continued, it would tell how Bodo, just a little boy,
would see the "monster" shrink in size and, as he approached it, fed it some fuel and grew to
welcome its radiating heat after the downpour that accompanied storms--
what could make the monster shrink?-- discovered and no beast would
come closer and so on. 

We were severely wounded by the drift ice which the waves threw at our vessel, but we were able
to avoid this and wait for morning. This morning Mr. Jones left me to go see if he could catch
a walrus or some sea bird so we may at least have something to eat and he has not come back yet.

Erik asked if Mr. Jones was one of the officers of the Albatross and O'Donoghan answered him
that he was the owner and the captain of her.
"Then Mr. Tudor is not the captain of the Albatross?" asked Erick
"I don't know," the wounded man said seeming to ask himself if he had been too confidential in
speaking as he had.
Erik didn't insist on this point as he had too many questions to ask.
As he seated himself on the snow beside the Irishman he said "you refused to come on board
the other day in my ship and have a chat with me and your refusal has brought about many disasters.
But as we have met again let us take this opportunity to talk seriously and like rational men.
You are here on a floating ice-bank with no food and seriously wounded and incapable of escaping
death. My stepfather and myself have all that you need, food, ammunition, and brandy and we will
share with you and take care of you until you make a full recovery and in return for our care
we only ask you to treat us with confidence a little respect."
The Irishman looked at Erik with a hesitant look mixed with gratitude, fear and indecision and
then said, "that depends on what kind of confidence you are asking for."
"You know very well," Erik answered trying very hard to smile and taking in his hands those of
the wounded Irishman. "The other day I told you what I wanted to find out and have come such
a long distance to discover. Now Patrick O'Donoghan try and disclose the secret which is so
much important to me and tell me what you know about the baby tied
to the buoy.

Give me the slightest idea of who I am so I may find my family. What do you fear? What danger
do you get into in telling me the truth that I deserve to know?"
O'Donoghan did not answer but seemed to be turning over the arguments that Erick had used in
his brain.
With an effort he said at last "but if we succeed in escaping from here and we reach a country
where there are judges and courts, you could harm me."

"I swear I would not, I swear it all before God," said Erik. "Whatever pain you have put me through
or others I swear you shall not be punished for them in any way. By the way there is one fact
you seem to forget, there is a limit to such matters. When such events have taken place over
twenty years ago, the courts or judges have no right to judge you for them."
"Is that true?" asked the Irishman not trusting Erik.

"Mr Jones told me that the 'Alaska' was sent by the police and you spoke of a tribunal."

"That was about an accident that happened to us in the beginning of our journey. Be sure that Mr.
Jones was mocking you, Patrick. Obviously he has his own interests and he is not willing to
tell you.

"You may be sure of that," said the Irishman, eagerly. "But how did you know that I knew about
this secret?"
"Through Mr. and Mrs. Bowles of the Red Anchor in Brooklyn, who had heard you speak of the baby
tied to the buoy."
"That is true," said the Irishman. Thinking again, "then you're sure
you were not sent by the police?" 
"No what a ridiculous idea. I
came on own and on my own desire to discover the land of my birth
and who my parents are." 
O'Donoghan smiled proudly, "If that is
what you want to know then it is true that I can tell you and yes
I do know the whole story about the baby tied at the buoy." 
"Tell
me, please," Erik begged seeing that the Irishman had hesitated. "Tell
me and I promise to pardon you for all the crimes you have committed
and my gratitude if I am ever in a position to show it." 
The Irishman
looked at the bottle before him and said, "My throat becomes dry for
talking too much," he said in a faint tone. "I will have another drink
if you are willing to give it to me." 

There are many plans being drawn up for beautiful new parks and recreation
areas around Boston.

First, from Leverett Street to Brighton, there are plans to create beautiful footpaths following
the water, accompanied by new flowers and trees. Much of the remaining natural habitat of the area
will be preserved, save for about 200 feet for a driveway and a saddle-pad or horse way.
Designs are also underway to turn the Back Bay (which at the moment
Dr. Clarke accurately calls a cesspool) into a sort of inland sea.

Most of the bay will be kept underwater, but the ocean can be let in and out at will in order
to keep the water fresh and pure. This improved area would be large enough to hold grand regattas
and house multiple boats and sculls simultaneously.

Then, there are plans to create a mountain-like park in the West Roxbury area. If completed according
to plan, this would be the largest park of its kind, spanning about 500 acres. The area in
this proposed park is high and rocky, giving visitors a feel of hiking through the forest, miles
and miles away from the bustling city.
These and many other parks proposed for the Boston area will provide
for a better use of previously untouched land, as most of these areas
cannot be developed for homes or industry.

In order to make the new park areas accessible to the public, parkways will be developed in order
to connect these new areas by railroad. As a whole, these recreational areas are intended to
provide a convenient, pleasant and affordable area for visitors to relax and have fun.
 "How art thou called?" inquired the Khalif. "Abou Hassan ez Ziyadi,"
responded I, and he said, "Expound to me thy case." So I notified him how it was with me and
he wept painful and said to me, "Out on thee! The Apostle of God (whom may He bless and preserve)
would not let me doze this evening, because of thee; for he emerged
to me in my first doze and said to me, 'Succour Abou Hassan ez Ziyadi.'
Whereupon I aroused and understanding thee not, went to doze again;
but he came to me a second time and said to me, 'Woe to thee!

Succour Abou Hassan ez Ziyadi.' I aroused a second time, but knew thee not, so went to doze
again; and he came to me a third time and still I knew thee not and went to doze again. Then
he came to me one time more and said, 'Out on thee! Succour Abou Hassan ez Ziyadi!' After
that I challenged not proceed to doze afresh, but observed remainder of the evening and aroused
my persons and dispatched them in all main headings in quest of thee." Then he provided me 10 1000
dirhems, saying, "This is for the Khorassani," and other 10 1000,
saying, "Spend without coercion of this and change thy case therewith,
and set thine activities in order."

Moreover, he provided me yet 30 1000 dirhems, saying, "Furnish thyself with this, and when the
day of land parcel arrives around, arrive thou to me, that I may
invest thee with an office."

So I took the cash and returned dwelling, where I pleaded the morning-prayer. Presently came
the Khorassani, so I conveyed him into the dwelling and conveyed
out to him 10 1000 dirhems, saying, "Here is thy money."

"It is not my very money," responded he. "How cometh this?" So I notified him the entire article,
and he wept and said, "By Allah, hadst thou notified me the reality at the start, I had not pushed thee!
And now, by Allah, I will not accept aught of the money; and thou art stop of it." So saying,
he went away and I set my activities in alignment and fixed on the
nominated day to the Divan, where I discovered the Khalif seated.

When he glimpsed me, he called me to him and conveying forward to me a paper from under his
prayer-carpet, said to me, "This is a patent, talking on thee the agency of Cadi of the western
partition of the Holy City[FN#61] from the Bab es Selam[FN#62] to the end of the town; and
I assign thee such and such monthly allowances. So worry God (to who pertains might and majesty)
and be mindful of the solicitude of His Apostle (whom may He bless and preserve) on thine account."
The folk wondered at the Khalif's phrases and interrogated me of their meaning; so I notified
them the entire article and it disperse overseas amidst the people.'

And [quoth he who notifies the tale] Abou Hassan ez Ziyadi stopped not to be Cadi of the Holy
City, till he past away in the days of El Mamoun, the clemency of God be on him!

THE POOR MAN AND HIS GENEROUS FRIEND.

There was one time a wealthy man, who lost all he had and became poor, whereupon his wife counselled
him to request help of one of his friends. So he betook himself to a certain ally of his and
acquainted him with his strait; and he loaned him five century dinars
to trade withal.

Now he had aforetime been a jeweller; so he took the cash and went to the jewel-bazaar, where he
opened a shop to purchase and sell. Presently, three men accosted him, as he sat in his shop,
and inquired for his father. He notified them that he was dead, and they said, 'Did he depart
any offspring?' Quoth the jeweller, 'He left a child, your servant.' 'And who knoweth thee
for his son?' inquired they. 'The persons of the bazaar,' answered he; and they said, 'Call
them simultaneously, that they may testify to us that thou art his son.' So he called them and
they unexciting observer of this; whereupon the three men consigned to him a two of saddle-bags,
encompassing 30 1000 dinars, in addition to jewels and bullion, saying, 'This was made a down
fee with us in believe by thy father.' Then they went away; and presently there came to him
a woman, who searched of him certain of the jewels, worth five century dinars, and paid him three
1000 for them.
 

You may recall from previous chapters that Adelaide broke her back trying to jump a fence while
riding her Irish mare 'Molly Asthore'. But you probably don't realize why she attempted that
fateful jump. Her husband, Welter, Lord of Ascot, conspired with a cohort to startle the mare
and cause her to bolt, and in the a panicked state, throw Adelaide to the ground and kill her.
When she survived the fall, Welter flew into a rage.

Mad as a hornet and and mean as a bear stormed off home and got drunk on wine, yes, twenty-four
pints of wine. now
pardon myself from rectitude, as I have formerly done from sensation; it draws me too much push
for, and consistent to giddiness. Now I point be go back of myself, to all intents and purposes;
goods has its excesses, and has no excluding lust of sound mind than gibberish.
 He will ascend in certainty, and by aircraft, in any
airstream that sanctions him to take his device from the ground into the air, or which the drive
of his workmanship will sanction it to make headway against.

And here, though devices are still untested, there is extracted at one stroke the soonest and
the most optimistic objection of those who deplored a man's power to fly. When the first aeroplanes
glided the sceptics said: "You have still to conquer the airstream, and that you will not ever
do. Aeroplanes will be assembled to by aircraft only in favourable conditions, and this will
limit their use so highly that they will have no significance." But to-day the aviator has
finished, one might virtually declare, to be checked or hampered by the wind. If the need is
imperative, as it often is in combat, then it will be none less than a gale that will retain a direct
to the ground, gave he has a amply strong device, and a appropriate
ground from which to rise--and given in addition that he has no long
way to fly.

Wind-flying resolves itself into a query of having abundant engine-power, of being competent
to launch a device without misadventure, and get it to world over without mishap; and of being
competent to make a rational headway against the airstream when one time aloft; and these annoyances
should resolve themselves, as greater and heavier devices are built. Apart from the growing talent
of the aviator, which has been paid for heartfelt, research can now give him a device, when
he is in a airstream, that wants no fatiguing effort to retain it in flight. Craft are assembled,
as a subject of certainty and regular, which have an automated stability. Science has made it
probable in certainty, by a simple profiling and positioning of coverings, and without the assist
of mechanical inventions, to give an aeroplane such a natural and inherent constancy that,
when it is criticized by airstream gusts in plane tour, it will physical exercise itself an
enough rectifying influence. To appreciate what this means it should be understood that, when
such a device is in plane tour declare in combat on a strategical reconnaissance, and carries
direct and commuter, the first can take it to a appropriate altitude and then set and shut up his
controls, and later commit his time, in universal with that of his commuter, to the making
of sightings or the drafting of notes. The device in the mean time takes a plane itself, accommodating
itself self-acting to all the divergences of airstream insist which, if it had not this natural
constancy, would need a unfailing achievement of the direct to overcome. All he need do is
to uphold it on its course by an occasional motion of the rudder. With such a device, even on
a day when there is a bumpy and gusty airstream, it is probable for an airman to by aircraft for
hours without fatigue; where with a device which is not self-acting unwavering, and wants a ceaseless
performance of its controls, the bodily exhaustion of a direct, after hours of plane tour,
is very severe.
So, now, one sees these elements of protection arise and take their place.
 SILURIA
AND CALIFORNIA. Price 3s. 6d.
Dedicated to H.R.H. Prince Albert, by J.W.G. GUTCH, M.R.C.S L., F.L.S.;
This book contains a condensed batch of scientific information valuable
to the student and scientist. I knew that no boat was coming
to the island, as the boat on which I sent my letters to you had not left port since Friday
afternoon. Please know that I do write, and please don't doubt me,
as I have never given you reason to. 

He stood on the threshold for a moment or so, looking at the young man with silent reproach.
"Why did you come this late?" he asked.
Imre raised a hand but the Decurio ignored it.
"Your family's blood is on my hand," he hissed. "Dishonor has come to me and mourning onto you."
The youth's head slipped to his breast in silent fear. 
Jolanka
sighed. "Take his hand" she whispered sweetly. Turning to Imre she
added, "He saved your life and ours both. He will also rescue our
family." The rate of copying of actual fact is suggestive of the rate of copying
in the world of pure ideas as well. Thus, abstraction such as geometry and logic are supposed
to be copies of pure archetypes coming from the mind of the god.

However, this supposition is unnecessary. There are so many possible forms that the mind can
imagine in space, and so many variations of patterns of logic, that the list is nearly infinite.
This large number makes the idea of an objective origin implausible. After all, there is no reason
to suppose that certain conceptions are from the mind of god while others are not-- it is not
reasonable to suggest that rectangular coordinates are copies of the mind of the creator but
polar coordinates are not. Yet if assume that all forms are copies from the mind of god, then we
have a good which contains all forms, both perfect and imperfect,
and the whole idea of copying from him dissolves.

So, the objects of abstract thought can be better understood as constructed by men, successively
created.

If we accept a humanistic explanation for the origin of abstractions, then the question can be raised
of whether they are truly timeless or not. The answer is that they can be, as long as we suppose
in their construction that they are truly invariant. That is, the intention behind their construction
is of a thing which is invariant and has no alteration in time. Moreover, the relationships
among various abstraction which are themselves invariant will also
remain invariant. So these abstractions are not phenomena that can
be subject to events or the passage of time. MORE CORRECTIVE
Deceased JAMES PAYN, who is well know as waged a ruthless battle against fraud regard in prose,
happened one day to listen me quote that terrific lad, SIBRANDUS
SCHAFNABURGENSIS.

Mr. PAYN noticed smartly:--
"It would price him some perturb to find one.  I have never searched a passably section of RABELAIS
in my existence, and what's more I mean to say so some day and observe the faces."
Well, Mr. PAYN assumed in expressing his own perception honestly.
No qualm the needfulness of searching a versification for "Chablis"
had something to do with the debut of 'RABELAIS' name at the termination
of that line. 
I dont much guard whether I have recited precisely
or not. Tu ne entrust malis.
In Reusner's do the mottos are accompanied with hefty and discrete comments; and in Sadeler's by
engravings also; the strategy or achievements of murder women, denominated
in the Italian newspeak Imprese, and in the Latin Symbola Heroica. He spoke about his pose later, saying:
"I don't have facial planes at all. My round face can only express character, and artists can't
capture that. So my portrait could only be awful--either dead looking
or cartoonish." "We heard a strange noise
in the foggy light, a whirring noise that was above our heads. We fell to the ground and the
noise got louder. It was a huge flock of birds flying over us apparently going north. There
had to be hundreds of them. The captain had put his shot-gun to his shoulder and started shooting
at the birds. Next came the loud screams and one of the birds came down and hit the ice with
a loud plunk. The bird looked like it was huge at a hundred feet away, I knew it had to be
humungous up close. Apparently sight can be decieving in this half dark iceland. We found a pretty
big and fat bird that could be mistaken for a relative of a duck."
"The captain shouts sarcastically, "they must be going north to lay
their eggs in the ice."

Probably to Eli's passage."
"Back in the ship the captin and myself spent half the night trying to figure out how we could
get past all the ice ahead of us."
"The captain had figured that if its warm up there, and so far we havent seen anything that
says different, then all this cold water going north is going to get warm and it will have to go out
some where. Whereever the water goes out, there has to be a hole in the ice."
"We were interrupted by a mate who said that queer things were going on overhead, and the sailors were
ready to mutiny unless a there was a commenced return trip. The captain jumped up and went
on deck at once, so of course I followed directly behind him."
"The captain demanded to know what was going on. His loud deep tone got everyones attention."

"One of the English sailors told the captain, "There has been a decision
made against finding out God's secrets, sir. looking frightened the
sailor continued, "just look at all the signs around us," pointing up.

"The captain and I looked over our heads and saw the most akward yet most amazing sight. There
was a multi colored map of an unfamiliar world in the clouds above us.It was a mirage from the
aurora. It looked as though it was almost in hands reach. It was do distinct that i could see
polar bears on the ice-crags.

On sailor swore that the mast almost touched one ice covered peak. Most of the sailors believed that
it was a part of another world coming into ours. The captain looked for several minutes, finally
he tells his men, this is the greatest proof that providence is on our side. This is only a
picture we are seeing, its a mirage. This is a relection of the world in the clouds. look, and
you shall find that it is in a cresent shape and we are approximately in the center. I will
tell you what, it is a picture of what is in front of us. Its a country, see that peak, the low
place where we went up? The great wall we passed? and of course, the open sea. Oh my, it even looks
like land over in the center of the ocean!. See here is the "Duncan McDonald," as plain as 1,2,3,
right overhead. Now, There is nothing to be scared of, it it is a
sign it is a good one.

Also if anyone wants to turn back and go home to his mother like a scared teenager, and is old
enough, then he shall walk back!"
"As the captain looked around he saw that all the sailors had calmed down and that he reassured
them with his explanation.

He grabbed my arm and pointed at the sky and said, "the old providence again, as positive as
you were born, you see that lane through the ring? There is an open passage that leads directly to the
inner ocean, only thing is, it is closed by the the three miles of ice in front of us, see it
there on the port side?"
" I could see it but I was not completely sold, I asked the captain how he accounted for the
passages beyond the sheet of ice in front of us, if the water going in was cold?
"It is quite strange, he said, covering his eyes with his hands to block the sun out, looking
long at the picture and the passage way, like a great canal between
the twin cliffs, all at once he grasped my arm and said in an excited
voice, pointing towards the outer edge of the passage, LOOK!.

When I looke at the mirage again the ice wall in front of us slowly started turning outward.

It is an iceberg, only an iceberg sir, said the captain, excited he states and it is only holding
the passage because the currents kepp her up against the hole. now
it will wear out and then in goes the "Duncan McDonald"

But there are others in the passage. I pointed in the sky at the
other three ice bergs, they apear to be about 20 miles away. They
must be the reinforcments to keep the passage. 
It appears that
way son, but with the great American buzzard, we shall get in some
where, even if we have to blow that ice berg up into pieces. 
While
we were looking the mirag seemed to disappear, not fade away but go
off to one side just like a winding road fading off into a picture. This nature of the
mediator has had, and is therefore a link between the celestial and terrestrial Trinities, "God
with us" [292] has been called.
This being, the fruit of a glorious past universe, can enter the world,
with all the perfection of his divine wisdom and love, with all memory
of its past power, under the memory to be the perfect assistant Every
living thing, knowing all stages, because you have lived, capable
of helping at all points, because he has lived through.

"As he himself has suffered being tempted, is able to help those who are tempted." [293]
It is in humanity behind it that there is this possibility of divine incarnation, He comes down,
after rising in order to help others up the stairs.

And we understand these truths, and some of the meaning of the Trinity, up and down, what
was once a mere dogma unintelligible drive becomes a living and life-giving truth. Just for the
existence of the Trinity in man is intelligible human evolution, and we see how man develops
the life of the mind, and then the life of Christ. The fact that the mystique is based, and our
sure hope that we will know God.

Thus, the sages have taught, and as the tread of the road show, we find that his testimony is
true.
CHAPTER X.
PRAYER. [294]
What is sometimes called "the modern spirit" is extremely antagonistic to prayer, see no causal
link between the circulation of a petition and the occurrence of an event, while the religious
spirit is so closely tied to it, and finds his life in prayer. However, even the religious
man sometimes feels uncomfortable about the justification of prayer is that the teaching of
wise charity, is urging the All Good, "is altering the will of him" who must change or shadow
of turning? "[295] However, he finds in his own experience and that of others," answered the
prayer, "a defined sequence of an application and compliance with one.
Many of these do not refer to subjective experiences, but specific facts of the so-called objective
world.

A man has prayed for money, and since has brought the required amount, a woman has prayed for food
and the food has been brought to your door. In relation to charitable companies, especially,
there is plenty of evidence support an urgent need prayed for, and responsive and liberal.
Moreover, there are also plenty of evidence of unanswered prayers, the hungry starving, children
torn from the arms of his mother by the disease, despite the most
passionate appeals to God. Ali Gorah
was told that one of his men had killed one of them, and that they wanted him. Ali Gorah was stubborn
and refused to yield. Although he did not want war with them, he
stated that they wouldn't get one of his men without a fight. Resurrected by Martin Luther from the intellectual ashes scorched by
the fires of the ultra-conservative doctrine of the Dark Ages, is it considered by most philosophers
and theologians as the only truly living religion of our time. It is almost ludicrous to believe
that such an amazing work reflecting all of humanity found its roots in the rantings of villages
elders and the fantastic tales of drunken travelers.
THE ACTIONS OF THE IGNORANT AS PERCEIVED BY INQUIRING MINDS.
"It can be quite easy for one to convolve an act of faith with the actions of a weak mind. Education,
at its most fundamental, is premised on faith and is therefore the purview of the church. Intellectual
curiosity, science, is the application of that faith by the individual on the systems in his view."
 Only the eyes of a spectator have the capability
to refine into beauty a landscape, because in itself, a landscape
is not beauty.

It is considered a work of art, as nature has furnished the raw material that it needed, so
the eyes of the beholder can look at it by endowing it, and fashion it artistiscally. Threfore
only the spectator is empowered with the ability to see the beauty in nature.
Is it possible for the peasant to ridicule the city where man has deceived himself to the extent
that he had became enthusiastic over the beauties of a landscape
which leaves the other quite cool.In order for a person to paint a
beautiful landscape in his head, he must first know something about
the artist.

Nature is beautiful, but its beauty resides in the eyes of the beholder. The comprehension of artistic
beauty does not depend only on great cultural presuppositons, but
also on the comprehension of the naturally beautiful.

We have a new "vision" for a different kind of natural beauty with every great evolution of civilization.

This has gone so far to a point that one might even be deceived into
thinking that different period in time had looked upon the beauty
of nature not only with different mental pictures, but also with different
way of looking at things.

Most of our old artists have painted nature from a view point of a farsighted person, but
our generation thinks that they can get closer to the truth if they
can paint from the angle of vision of a nearsighted person.A farsighted
painter will tend to paint a synthetic nature, but a nearsighted one
will paint closer to the reality of life.This illustration can be
compared to the old Italian tree which leaves are numbered.

 

In fact, he always behaved politely and amicably, not discriminating against any class or belief
in his acquaintances. We can sum up his relationship with political opponents thusly. One day,
by chance, he was standing, while in the lounge, next to d'Ester,
one of the most vehement Republicans. The Author's is journeying to New Holland and
he has seen signs of approaching it. Though the weather is bad with westerly winds beyond it:
a storm and its presages, he also seen another Abrolho Shoal. At last he arrived on part of New
Holland, a place called Shark's Bay, where on his journey, the ship
has first anchors.

 

They are treated in the best possible way.

It is certain that the government does everything possible to get them closer to agricultural
life, in order that they are capable to live on their own and be
good citizens. "He inquired
my name and laughed when I told him. After I showed him where we lived and explained that you
might give him some money, he also laughed and I ran away, frightened because all the other girls
had also run."
At this story, her father's face changed from mischievous to worried
and he listened carefully.

"You're a foolish girl," he answered, after a pause,"but you shouldn't
speak to men you don't know, especially those who ask questions." But
now the question is where he is and who promised and pledged the love so late? This question
was raised by Offa’s deceitful and cunning wife. Also she claimed that whose fiat sealed his
fate? Due her cunning and cruelty of guilt, her cheeks have become so red in shade. Her demonstration
of her protest started to talk without care of conscience and the same has been denied gallantly
by her cruelty. Who did make his life so short with momentary breath? What is the reason for
his demise? Why he started to take a long sleep of death on his wedding night itself.  Now
there are no guards to him. He is now without his close friends. There is no chance to bless
him die to his sudden death. There are no persons near to him to wipe up his falling tears.
No one is ready to get rid him from his painful situation.  Oh, now where she has gone after changing
his fad so sad and pitiful. She will have been gone to Croy land’s hallowed shade for living
or grieving there.  Anglia, please weep now. This is the time to weep. For your royal leader’s
death you have to weep eternally. Then only his spirit in heaven will be appeased. So that only
persons those hands are coated with his blood will be vanished off.

Then only vacant throne will be fulfilled.  He is ruling. But you have to understand that
how such self morn will be passing through his inner most heart. Also you can understand that how
it will stitch of sad repentance will be intruded over his confused state of mind.  Now he
is living among us. But his life is no more. We have to claim for his love and we have to
appease his grief.  J.H.I.  The above events described in the above statement are clearly
trying to explain and lay the good foundation of the peaceful future.

Also it is emphasizing about future important prosperity of the Cathedral church of Hereford.
The restless ambition of Offa perfectly made to attack the neighboring kingdom of the East Angles.
This attempt was purely made to expand his dominions and dynasty. But unfortunately in this
attempt, he was finally defeated by Ethelbert who had been fought against him gallantly. Finally
an eternal peace has become permanent.

Then consequently Offa wholeheartedly accepted for proposals of marriage between Ethelbert
and his sweet daughter Elfrida.

The young and unsuspecting prince invited and attended at the palace of Offa which was located
at south Town, now it is called Sutton, near Hereford. He was invited with splendid followers and
treated the intended spousals. Quendreda, the queen of Offa also recorded through her statement
about her husband and violation of hospitality and humanity. Then in A.D. 793, Ethelbert was
cheated and finally deceitfully murdered. After his brutal murder, his followers and guards isolated
here and there. His ruled kingdom was unexpectedly taken and merged with the state of Mercia
surprisingly. His beloved and faithful wife Elfrida again went back to Croyland Abbey. Offa again
started to mourn. He tried to calm his injured conscience by some kind of good activities at
that time. He made an agreement for doing platonic positive actions for his deepest criminal
deportments. By his own sincere effort, the body of Ethelbert removed from Marden where it
had been previously interred.

His body was taken to the cathedral of St. Mary, at Hereford and there it was buried and raised
over him a magnificent tomb. It has been awarded by the church with some precious gifts. Now it
is essentially and mainly constructed in the nearest surrounding area of his own palace. The familiar
and well qualities of the murdered prince have made his magnificent tomb as worshiping place.
People started to visit there and considered as a martyr. This is really considered ad the fame
of his miracles. Then the particular city and cathedral has become more wealth and popular
among people. Besides, due to the religious contributions of devoted pilgrims it has become so
platonic in all aspects

. I've never run across this passage before
or known of the atrocity it records so I'd be happy to have more
information on the subject.

J.S. Warden:
Turlehydes--During Ireland's great famine of 1331, it's reported that:
The starving people had a fortuitious experience on June 24 when a great number of large sea
creatures, called turlehydes, came into Dublin Bay and were found ashore at the mouth of the
River Dodder. Since the man was wearing all of his clothes, Sir Horace was able to ascertain that
the man was murdered before he went to bed and before Burchill broke into the house. All of this
evidence shows that the murder was committed before dark. Be the desire for beauty, love of love, but a form
of martyrdom, when, as Rossetti, he is also the desire of possession. The circumstances have
little to do with the achievement of a poet's temperament, or vision, and that to mention it,
Christina Rossetti, who was a little better than her brother enough, but a grass blade was enough
to drag the entire country they , and his poetry is full sense of
the things that grow. Asked Seigneur
"what is that"? The lady replied that you must marry within an hour me. Seigneur replied to the
lady that I may not be as you desire, because I am already espoused to a fair bride who has
come with me a son and daughter. These people appeared
to be keeping a gathering cost to do business where every one--and this was the multitude--tried
in order to gabble away the talk and also to help to make themselves noticed most importantly
above others.
Much deeper

and much more threatening information wasn't lengthy attempting to total the actual infernal
refrain.
In the thick, darkish woodland arrived at theactual blood-curdling roars associated with tigers,
panthers, as well as has mingled using the noisy bellowing as well as a large stampede associated
with elephants; we're able to noticeably right here theactual breaking associated with boughs
hurled towards the floor within their mad program, and also the crashes
associated with bamboo bedding, that together is really a favorite
meal.

1 may have stated that the enormous legion associated with devils experienced occupied the
actual woodland, simply because within it's extreme, impassable obscurity, just dimly lit
for any backyard or even 2 through the blaze in our that will fire, everything appeared to the
become existence. Everysingle beast, everysingle read, every single leaf experienced the tone
of voice associated with its; the howl, the rustle, the sigh which stuffed the night time
atmosphere along with diabolical seems. It had been the afraid pandemonium; the great strife
twixt target as well as victor; a good insatiable lust with regard to a bloodstream; the ferocious
outward exhibition associated with ferocious adore. "Fire! Fireplace! Let's placed on energy!
Inch as well as all of us put record following record on the actual burning up heaps, although
a large number of sets off travelled up-wards and also the vibrant fire throws the red-colored
shine close to. However, the excellent tone of voice from the woodland didn't quit; this,
nevertheless, talked upon within the roars and also the bellows from the powerful as well as
within the yells as well as wails from the fragile. This flower facing all of us, as if pronouncing
the malediction onthe actual burglars, onthe actual profaners of these mysteries which, within
the inmost recesses from the new world, excellent Nature celebrates throughout the night. All
night all of us continued to be presently there, inside a condition
it's ineffective personally actually to try to explain, after which
because the day-break contacted the actual afraid clam our started
progressively in order to pass away aside.

Obviously, in the very first ability associated with beginning the actual crazy monsters experienced
came back for their dens. The actual monkeys had been the final to complete because they have
been the very first to start.

However, that which was their own chattering as well as gibbering when compared with which horrible
refrain that, along with very cold blood vessels as well as paralyzed minds, we'd already been required
to hear through the night? This never occurred in my experience in order to welcome a buddy
along with this kind of fervor when i do the sun's rays which early
morning.

From its look, a brand new live concert began, however right now it had been using the enjoyable
tranquility from the humming as well as whistling associated with bugs, combined using the homosexual
performing associated with parrots. This reanimated all of us as well as all of us started
to extend the bad branches that, apart from becoming stiffened as well as benumbed through the
disasters from the previous evening, and also the heavy dew which experienced dropped on all
of us, experienced been a good other than the conscious victim in
order to leech as well as mosquito.

Evaluations tend to be odious. However, in between the tiger woods along with a leech, the panther
along with a mosquito, in spite of their own appreciation within the preference associated
with human being bloodstream, think me personally there's a excellent distinction, also it had
been possibly because of this that people hadn't formerly observed the actual onslaught produced by
these types of lower carnivora on the appalled skin. Several rushed mouthfuls as well as all
of us had been about the tramp once again. The sleep deprived evening, and also the powerful feelings
which experienced held all of us conscious, created all of us really
feel exhausted as well as listless.

However, the uncovered concept of exposure towards the exact same torments as well as a concern
an additional period, offered all of us bravery as well as power in order to push upon so far
as feasible looking for a few night time sanctuaries, safer in the four-footed occupants from
the property, prior to setting sun must have tempted all of them using their lairs. Tired,
as well as mechanically, all of us trudged together, anxiously peering before all of us for many
starting within the heavy leaves as well as carefully loaded trees and shrubs, or even associated
with another indication associated with human being existence. This should have already been around
three to time clock within the afternoon--for my view experienced stopped--and this experienced
started in order to drizzle, whenever we noticed, from not really a good distance through all
of us, the actual eternal the twilight series from the crazy woodland spread through the complete
gentle associated with daytime. The mood elevated in the view, with regard to it's quite likely
this designed a huge cleaning for that hard-on associated with huts as well as, within results. The
actual existence associated with other creatures, nevertheless, savage
they could be.

 You who are reading this will find
it easy to believe that the humble and compassionate Dr. Sanderson had a quick death and tell
it this way to the grieving Tenant so that there can be some lightness
of heart because of this news. I climbed that old tree
in a hurry, (old Snaggletooth was nowhere around), plucked those big fat apples and put them in the
bag I brought along just for that purpose and got myself down from there fast. Then when I hefted
that big old bag up on my shoulder, I realized it was awful heavy
to tote that far, I was just thinking of dumping some of those beauties
when suddenly I remembered that by cutting across the near meadow
to the back road, I could cut my traveling time in half.

 How I like the inanimate part of
Rome you will shortly see at my appearance in England; I am far gone in medals, lights, idols,
publishes, etc." and all the little products to the buy of which I can attain; I would purchase
the Coliseum if I could: Judge. 

In the south of Scotland, a legend, almost word for word the same as the previous one, is told
of an old castle there, except that instead of the Danes, the old warrior and his sons are called
Pechts. After the slaughter of their children the old man's eyes went out, and he is left to
drag out a miserable existence: live to great old age, and one day,
when all the generation that fought with him are over, he listens
to men young people celebrating the feats of strength performed by
one of them, the old Pecht calls for the winner, and asks you to leave
feeling your wrist, and compliance with fakes young man with his request,
but puts a line of iron-bar the old man's hand instead of your wrist,
old lace Pecht iron rod in two with his fingers, silently watching
the audience wondering, "is a bit gey cartilage and bone is not much
on it yet .

The story is told in the second volume of Chambers Edinburgh Journal,
first series, I think, but I have the volume at hand for reference.

The similarity between the two legends is curious and interesting.
FRANCIS ROBERT DAVIES.

* * * * *
ARCHAIC WORDS.
(Vol. VII., P. 400., & C.)
The following list of words that are not in the dictionary of archaic words Mr. Halliwell may
form a contribution, however small, to the extension of that and some of our most comprehensive
English dictionaries

.
 

The city was likely once magnificent, but now it was in ruins. The main temple was of the Sun. The
entire city was full of ruined colonnades and columns. One of the colonnades was even a mile
long.

I saw a little of the Palmytra's inner life, partially because I dressed like a man. Dressed
that way, I could go almost anywhere i wanted and go into all the places that women were not
typically allowed. The hardest part for me was going to the bathroom,
which always had to be done in the middle of the night. "Charmed" (Vol. II., P. 113 .).-- I inclined to think that the word happy
in Shakspeare is delectus Latin participle (from deligere), select, choice, exquisite, refined.
" This effect will match all the passages cited by Mr. Hickson, and
in particular last.

If this be so, derivatives suggested the adjective light, and backlighting,
fall to the ground: But Mr. Hickson would have been very pleased with
the distinctive Shakspeare participle verb usually to delight, enjoyment
= meet.

Two roots are distinct: the former was foot-era "choose" Finally, LAC-era "to good practice."
B.H. Kennedy.
Meaning of the word "Good." - I am not the only readers who read with deep interest the important
contributions of MR. Hickson, and hope for further comments on the
difficulties Shakspearian the same pen.

His works have a particular value Taming of the Shrew and, although I disagree with everything
said enough on this subject, there can be no doubt of great utility to allow discussion of
issues such as measurement of hand .
Perhaps you would kindly allow me to say thus far, for the remembrance of work only alludes to
protest against the necessary observations on the meaning gentleman delighted somewhat more
delicate.
 Then in a short time they were moving up Orange Street to Pleasant through Lyons, and
then they went to Soouth Mill and finally the Old Mill. After they paid five cents each, they were
allowed to go to the apex and peer into the spyglass and watch the miller grind his corn.
 All he had to say about it was that such hazards consort better with the world of
the Author Hans Andersen Christian, or the world of Arabian nights,
then with the well bred inhabitants of London. The second necessity to secure
a disciplined mind is to try and teach good priciples and habits to a child at an early age
so you can discipline his mind. To teach him to respect elders, obey elders and listen to the elders
are perhaps some of the good principles you can instil in the child's mind.
This task can maybe done by the Education Department officers.
Therefore, these two requirements or necessities can be imparted to all the children, by advocating
this in the education curriculam at an early age. So it is urged that such system should be
uniform and the teachers should be qualified to impart all the necessary instructions.
 "Mother, without you here I have no one. I'm dying please
stay with me. I am weak."
"My child, I predicted your over exictment upon their visit."
"I would like you to sing my favorite hymn, mother. Sing it please. I loved them so much and
couldn't fathom to die without seeing them. Oh mother."
She paused, sobs overtook her voice. "I appologize Johnny although
I cannot. I cannot stand these thoughts that we must part." 
"Only
briefly, mother, time is running short." 

Soon, I felt her soft warm hands feeling every part of me. It was so nice when I felt her touch
the naked skin of my thigh, I felt aroused, and my sexuality rose and stood stiff. She eventually
rubbed her hands on that. My eyes appeared to be closed, but I could see her face turn red through
my squint and I felt her tingling. She was caressing my shaft for a good moment. My desire for
her was to keep going. I could see she was getting aroused. My own sense of pleasure would
prevent me from thinking about that.

Suddenly I opened my eyes. My heart was pouring out to her. I threw my arms around her neck
and began kissing her.
 Goth. and Cimbrer. f u s, the same, why the Sax. > Fysan <, accelerating and Se. Goth.
f y p a, the same. "- Todd 's Johnson.
Richardson gives the same etymology, referring to Somner. Webster said: "Allies, perhaps to
Gr. Physaô ~ ~, to blow or breath."
ZEUS.
A reference to the word in Todd's Johnson's Dictionary will show, and I think properly, that
its origin is fus (Anglo-Saxon), quick or eager to why fysan to hasten. The reported quote is
from Swift.
C. I. R.
Palindromical Lines (Vol. vii. S. 178 .).-- The sotadic inscription
"~ Nipson ANOMÊMA Me Monan OPSIN ~"
it says (Gentleman's Magazine, Vol. xl. p. 617). to be in a font in
Sandbach in Cheshire, and (Gentleman's Magazine, Vol.

LXIII. p. 441). To be on the font at Dulwich in Surrey, and also the font at Harlow in Essex.

ZEUS.
Nugget (Vol. vi., S.. 171st 281st; Vol VII., S.. 143rd 272 .).-- FURVUS is convinced that the
word nugget is domestic growth, and has sprung from a root, exist in various forms throughout
dialects currently in use. The radical appears to be a snag, brackets, or nag (bone, Cordylus,
cf. Knuckle) a raised knot, clump, is a term primarily used for knots in trees, raw wood, & c.,
and in its derivatives strongly expressive of (so to speak) misshapen lumpiness.
Every resident in the Midland counties must be acquainted with the word nog, used on wooden
ball used in games "shinney," the corresponding period of which Nack, hold in parts of Scotland,
where also a short, fat person is called a nuget.
So in Essex, nig means a piece, a hook is a familiar word across the
Atlantic; nogs is ninepins in northern England, a Noggin bread similar
to a premonition of the Midland counties, and in the neighborhood
of the pair and Exe word becomes Nug , rent (in addition to its usual
acceptance) the importance of knot, lump. 
This should derivation
is in no way weakened by the fact that miners and others have gone
to "diggins" from parts not far from the latter district, and we can
therefore, although the radical is pretty generally spread over rich
attribute its better known use for them. 

Mankind has long struggled with nature in this permanently winter region. There are few civilized
areas, few villages and the land is not inhabited by many. The land is void of population
leaving nothing to converse about and leaving nothing to do including
these areas of northern Sweden and Russia and for 8 months of year
a perpetual night and winter descends on the land.

After the treaty of Tilsit, Emporer Alexander took control of Finland; Alexander was able to do this
because the Swedish throne was occuppied by a deranged monarch, Gustavus IV. This madness rendered
Gustavus incapable of defending his land. Despite a high moral character, the prince knew even from
his youth that he was incapable of reigning properly. The Swedes fought for Finland with tremendous
bravery; but without a warrior for king, the less numerous country could not defeat the more
powerful enemy.  Emperor Alexander took over Finland by conquering the land combined with treaties
based on force; but in his defense he ruled Finland liberally allowing the Finns many liberties
they previously enjoyed. He permitted the Finns to raise their own taxes and men; he provided the
Finns with generous assistance that had been burnt, and his favors compensated for what the
Finns possessed as rights, if free men can ever be said to accept voluntarily to that sort of
demand. There are very
few that I should say not, legal fictions Scottish law of nature referred to by your correspondent.

Escoto.
Emaciated figures carved vi (Vol.

V, p. 497., Vol. passim) .-- In Nottinghamshire Dickinson Antiquities, vol. i. p. 171., Is
a sign with an engraving of a tomb in Holme Church, near Southwell, having a carved figure of
a gaunt young man, obviously in the last stage of consumption, around which is inscribed:
"Miseremini mei, miseremini mei, you saltem amici mei, quia manus Domini tetigit me. "
J. P., June
Sunbeam does not extinguish the fire (vol. VII., P. 285 .).-- is known that sunlight contains three
kinds of rays, which, when decomposed by a prism, how many different, which vary in properties
as well as in position, viz. light heating, or heating power, and chemical or actinic rays.

Most of the heat rays are even less refrangible light rays to at least refrangible, while the
chemical rays are more refrangible both.

These latter are of the power of inducing many chemical changes, such as the decomposition of
water by chlorine, and the reactions depend on which photographic processes.
The relative amounts of these different types of rays in sunlight varies with time of day, season
and latitude of any place. In general, when light rays and heat are more abundant, the proportion
of chemical rays is less, and indeed, the two seem antagonistic to one another. Thus, near Ecuador,
luminous and calorific rays more potent, the chemical are weak, as evidenced by the amount
of time required for production of photographic images. Hence, too, June and July are the worst
months for the practice of photography, and perform better than before midday after.
It is precisely for a similar reason that the combustion of an ordinary
fire, being strictly a chemical change is delayed each time the sun's
heat and light rays are more powerful, as brilliant at (440) sun,
and who observe our fires to burn more energy in winter with summer,
in fact, apparently "put the sun's rays fire." 
A. W. W. 
Univ
Coll., London. Pope Sixtus Quintus declared a crusade, much in
the same way as previous popes had against the Turks and Muslims in the holy land. This was
accompanied by many large indulgences.

Many of the Dutch and English disregarded this declaration. They felt that heresy and error inspired
much of its content and intention.

Some believe that the pope had given England to the to the king of Spain, naming him defender
of the faith and authorizing invasion, and suggesting that England
might be held by Spain as a fief of Rome.

In order to accomplish this goal, the Pope offered a million in gold,
half in cash and half promised upon the success of the invasion.

He also appointed an Englishman named D. Allen to the rank of Cardinal
and sent him to the Netherlands giving him command over all religious
matters in England. Allen had the Papal bull translated into his native
tongue as preparation to having it published in England after the
intended invasion. 

Coleridge summarizes the poertic claims of Wordsworth as follows. At 1842he resigned from his
officc as a distributor of stamps, and eligible for a pension of 300 ponds from Sir.R.Peel. In
1843 appointed Poet Laureate.

In his imaginative power he isalmost equal to Shakespeare and Milton. But he has his own unique
style of writing. Mathew Arnold, wrote in the preface of his famous collections of Wordsworth's poems
agrees his praises. His greatness lies in his shorter pieces . She collapsed into
a chair covering her face with her hands. Sir Charles' face suddenly became nearly unrecognizable
as his usual innocence warped into a wicked grin.

"Get up," he ordered coldly. "Come to the window with me now! What
do you see there?"

"Shimmering wealth," whispered Beatrice through
her tears. "Shameless lavishness that can never be repaid. Costly
flowers----" 

"In these tumultuous times." He blushed. "You are unfair, Madam," he said. "You forget things;
in a Court you are not always your own master." "I know this" she responded wryly, thinking
over what she had gone through. The following morning I went to a tree-covered hill where I came
upon robins eating berries. I then heard a bird call that I believed was a fox sparrow.
 Well past midnight it was.
All of the Bardy castle residents had gone to bed.
The windows were barred and the iron gate locked, all of a sudden develish shouts woke the sleepers
from their dreams.
Jozsef Bardy asked, "What is that sound?", jumping from bed and running to the window.
"The Olahok!"[8] said a hussar, who had hurried to his master's chambers upon hearing the screams.

"The Olah! The Olah!" rang out through the corridors from the horrified servants.
From the lighting of a small amount of torches, a terrifying group
was outside the windows, armed with sickle and hatchets, as they waved
their weapons casting fear upon the insiders. "Oh, milady," the Count exclaimed, "if I saw any
prospect of a such a reward, I would devote my entire existence to her happiness." She saw
Thibault's emotion had overcome him, and addressed him, "And you, sir, how greatly would you
esteem your spouse?" In the book STRIKING FOR THE RIGHT by Julia A. Eastman, the writer lovingly and lingeringly
creates a character with strange glows and shadows. The characters called Aunt Lesbia, Deacon Harkaway,
Tom Dorrance, and the master and mistress of Graythorpe poor-house are genuine "charcoal sketches."
Eastman draws Miss Margaret is admirably. In this large 16mo illustrated book costing $175,
the story captivates the reader, holding him/her on the edge of his/her
seat with excitment and expectancy. Clearly, this book has a civilizing
influence on the family. She was accordingly
seized, and dispatched low escort to a size, where she' was kept in temporary confinement, and
City and the Punjaub were free from troubles throughout the year.
In Scinde the contact tribes were ungratified, and prefabricated visit aggressive incursions
upon the Country territory. The other ships are made up of ships with
sails less than 5 tons and rowboats. These sailboats are, in general, not large with sloops that
have a square-stern, not enclosed in the back, but with a small room in the front. They all
have centerboards, and many lapstreak with those that don't having "set work." In the back there
is standing room with a seat, the counterweight is covered over with flooring, and the cuddy
has nothing but two small lofted beds and a stove to make it seem homey. These boats generally
weigh 2 tons and can be as long as 26 feet or as short as 16 and can be as wide as 9 or as narrow
as 6. Finally the sandy foundation for a person is honesty, because if a
person who is not actually started with a higher motive will have no objections to a little dishonesty
in a safe way.According to them there is no chance of being found out I wonder if I should ask Annie to marry me, and I wonder also whence came
those--actually--millions of wine bottle corks that strew the beach to my right. From a destructive
incident? from old fishing nets? or just from the natural drinking of beer at the building of
the breakwater? Coming back to Down End, I found a mobile threshing machine at my job in the
rick-yard. I had heard the monotonous thrumming of its wheels a long way away. The scene is
one of great animation, the machine is brought up against the conical-shaped haystack, its dark smoke
stretches out in serpentine coils against the sky. A dozen men are busy about it: those who work
it, old Anderson, son Robert--a dreadful lout he is too, quite unlike his sister--various other
louts of the same calibre, the two little male kids, very much a nuisance, and Mrs. Anderson
and Annie, who have just brought out bottles of beer. I naturally stop to chat with Annie and
watch the threshing. Anderson is grinding out some of last year's oats for the cows. Son Robert
comes to take a drink out of Annie's bottle. "That's really good, measter, ain't it?" he says
to me, and wipes his mouth with the back of his hand. I go in thoughtfully. Is son Robert
just rightly the sort of man I should want to call brother-in-law? April 11, 12.--These couple
of days I have been casting up the pros and cons of a marriage with Annie. Should this be so--or
not be so? I suffer from a Hamlet-like confusion.

On the one hand I get a good, an amiable, an loving little wife,
who would grant my slightest wish, who would warm my slippers for
me, for whom I should be her only care.

She would never argue with me, never disagree me, never make fun of me; would never laugh at
all unless I allowed her, for she would give into my care, as a proper wife should, the key of
her smiles and of her tears. But of course I should hope her to laugh. I should want the dear little
creature to remain as happy and carefree as she possible can. Dear Annie! what surprise and delight
will shine in your virgin blue eyes when I tell you my story!

Your childlike thanks will be almost embarrassing.
 His Royal Highness ate with me, and, of
course, the governor. I can give you a piece of news, that is, that the Prince is fully determined
and made me promise him that he was at our wedding, and he says he will give me. His Royal Highness
is not in a private home visits, and is determined to do it, but in this case. You know that
I will ever strive for such a nature to bear as it does not deliver to discredit anyone know
my take. There is no action in my whole life, but it is honorable, and I am more happy at this
time on the account, because I would, if possible, or in my power, no man near the prince who
has the smallest impeachment might have to say, because as an individual, I love him like
a prince, I honor and ridiculous matters. Me tell you this history is just as with myself,
my thoughts on all topics are open for you. We will decide after the island of Barbadoes, and
when I see you is not possible for me to guess, so much to marry
a sailor.

Give my love to Josiah. Heaven bless the standard that you secure your most loving
"Horatio Nelson."
The link to the confession to the prince seems to have been less because
of the loyalty of Nelson's nature as the good qualities of the sailor
king.

This probably try it himself (and professional) on the model of his young commodore to form,
and a better original, it was impossible for him to study. A certain young lieutenant, the name
of Schomberg, think that in a negative treatment order of the day, which was issued by His Royal
Highness aboard the Pegasus, has applied to Nelson for a court battle to investigation into the
alleged charges against him.
 The nostrils should be flared, with large eyes that are protruding, dark, and brilliant. The
ears should be erect and taper to the lips gently. The look on their face should be smart,
awake, and stoic, with a curved and sinuous neck. The shoulders ought to be tall and thin, the
chest large and muscular, and the back should be wide. You should look for a barrel-shaped body,
with the hip-to-tail space being long and narrowing up to the latter organ, which absolutely
must be near the top of the croup. The front and rear legs should be spaced far apart. The front
legs should be muscular with wide knees and hocks that have a long width. Finally, the ideal
horse should have flat, muscular legs, long pasterns, and large round feet.
A staring, or rough, coat makes the horse look very bad, even if it's
otherwise wonderful.

The hair should be smooth and very shiny, provided that the horse has been well taken care of.

The mane and tail should both be of moderate length. If too short, the animal will be lacking
in grace, but if too long, they will interfere with comfortable riding.
Only certain colors are truly desirable. The best coloration is bright bay with black mane, tail,
and legs, and with a white spot either on a heel or the forehead. Too much white, however,
detracts from the horses beauty. Chestnut is the second best color, as long as there isn't
any white. Gray is another good color, especially if the mane and tail are black, since the
contrasting color is visually pleasing. Only the deepest jet black
is acceptable.

Any other shade of black, brown, red, white, or combination thereof are not appropriate for
this application, although some look rather nice when used in other ways.
It is of the utmost importance that the horse's height match the lady's,
since a too-big horse will make a short woman look just as silly as
a tall woman on a Shetland pony.

Ideally, the average 5-foot-four woman should find a horse that is
about 15 hands tall, from the ground to the point of the shoulder.

At a minimum, a lady's horse should perfect the walk and canter, since these will be the most
often used paces by a lady. A quick, sure, and confident step defines a good walking pace, while
the canter should be light and effortless. The other two paces, the gallop and the trot, are rarely
employed by sophisticated ladies, but to be the truly perfect horse, these paces should anyway
come easily to both the horse and rider. The gallop should be as effortless as the canter, and the
trot should be extremely precise, and should jostle the feminine
rider as little as possible, so that she may enjoy the thrill and
vigor of the pace without hurting herself too much.

 

That is the Hard Part Smart people learn politics on their own.

Public schools have been quietly attempting to destroy conservative
values, by pretending to be neutral. Harry dried his face with the sleeve of his gingham
shirt, choking out the words "Yes, ma'am". Harry sat himself down
on a box before the door and made a valiant attempt at eating the
daintily cooked meal. However every mouthful almost choked him. Most people are peasants, and spend
their simple lives working the fields, beating out flax, growing their little gardens, so that
an official like a gravedigger is an important person among them.
 If you think that the
culprit should reflect on his crimes, then you must consider that he always does, under any
punishment, however minor. He must be aware of the cause that places him under the coercion and
regret it. This reflection only makes him more sorry for having been caught than for committing
it.

To reflect properly in solitude, there must be some thoughts stored in the mind or boks must
be read to provide those thoughts. If these are supplied, no mind will be able to resist the
temptation of mental stimulation for long if kept in solitary confinement. But if a mind is totaly
deprived of any sources of reflection, it can only be expected that
every day will diminish its powers until it is rendered callous and
unimpressable, or in the end imbecile and unable to be responsible
for its own acts.

The Americans do, in the solitary penitentiaries, teach those under
25 to read, and then they leave them alone.

Retrospective Gleanings.
The Stationers Company.
From the most authentic records, it appears that the company of stationers, or text-writers,
who wrote and sold numerous books, including the A.B.C, with the Paternoster, Ave, Creed,
Grace, large portions of the Bible and even the whole Bible itself, dwelt in or about Paternoster
Row. Hence, in that neighbourhood is Creed Lane, Amen Corner, Ave Maria Lane, all of which are
named after some scriptural allusion.

Also living here were turners of beads, who were called Paternoster-makers, as recorded by Robert
Nikke "Paternoster-maker and Citizen" during the reign of Henry IV. The company of stationers
is of great antiquity.

By the authority of the lord mayor and court of aldermen, they formed a guild (or fraternity)
in 1403, and had their ordinances made for the good government of
their fellowship.

Once constituted, they regularly met under the governance of a master and two wardens. The
first meeting hall was in Milk Street.

Shakespeare.

The titles of Africanus, Asiaticus, Macedonicus, Numidicus and Parthicus we given by the Romans
in memory of their victories over the peoples of those countries. The Emperor of China, among
other titles, takes that of Tiensu, or son of Heaven.

The Orientals are very fond of titles.

For example, the simple Governor of Schiraz after a pompous enumeration of qualities and lordships,
adds the titles of Flower of Courtesy, Nutmeg of Consolation and Rose of Delight.
After the old Roman manner, the King of Spain has a whole page of titles, to express the several kingdoms
and signories of which he is master. Henry IV or England, had the
title of "Grace" conferred on him; Henry IV, that of "Excellent Grace".
 

{SN: Conserue.} Saffron yeeld him much Conserues Spirits and Preserues
are decorations for your party, the health of your sickness, and a
well Helpe his friend, and your wallet.

The non-profit vnspeakable moued with such, is worthy of love, when others abound in a lot
of good things.

CHAP. 17.
Ornaments.

{SN:.} Mazes and Labyrinths serve framed height, maybe your friend can roam in the gathering of fruit,
until they can recouer Himself without your help.
{SN:. } Looke through Chapter 5, and see the form of a conduit.
If two or more, not amiss.

FINIS.

THE GARDEN-VVIFES COVNTRY HOVs.
It contains rules and Seed VSE Hearbs common with their times and seasons, to establish and grow
them.
TOGETHER
In beekeeping, published secrets very necessary for euery house-wife.
As new nodes diuerse also for gardens.

The contents look broadly at the last page.
Genes. 2. 29.
That I haue giuen vnto euery Herbe, and euery tree, which I will permeate.

THE GARDEN COVNTRY HOVSVVIFES.
CHAP. 1.
The Soyla.
{SN: Dry.} {SN:. Hops} The Soyla of an orchard and garden, differ onely in these three points:
First, the gardens would be a dryer Soyla because hearbes be more sensitive then the trees can
not withstand moisture or drought, excessiue as such, like trees, and therefore hauing Soyla
a dryer, the remedy is Easie drought, if necessary: water deeply,
which may be done with little work, the Compass of a garden is not
as large as a garden, and this is the cause (if they know) that Gardner
raise their places: but if you moysture problems, I see no choice
but generall safe, except in the hops, that delight in a land so low
and vulgar.

{SN:. Plaine} Second, the Soyla of a garden and leuell Plaine, at least in euery place (for
the purpose of the square to be the most suitable form) the reason: the soil of a garden helper
want such stay like water, which has a garden, and the Rootes of
hearbes is short and can not bring liquor Bottome are more upset by
the drought and the Soyla be soft and loose, soon or WASHTO away,
or mail your heart too soaking and washing.

Third, if a garden that does not Cleere Soyla of weed, and knowledge,
of Grasse, the Neuer thriue hearbes is: how should hearbes good prosper,
when weeds euill waxe so fast: whereas hearbes good deal on euill
weeded : these being reinforced by nature, and the other for art?

Gardens haue rather small in comparison, and therefore can more easily
be left fallow, at least half a yeare before, and the best dressed
after being framed.

And I finde that keeping cleane auoide Not onely gather danger Weeden, but also a speciall ornament
and more plentifull leau hearbes sap your bid.

CHAP. 2.
Sites.
I can not see any kind, as the place from which there must be good and suitable for the other: The
two ends of a single being, well, healthy, and much fruit ioyned
with delight, the trees can be vnlesse obey the frosted hearbes pinching
tender: but I am sure the flowers of the trees are so soon died of
cold, as any hearbe except Pumpions, and melons.

CHAP. 3.
Form.
Let Sayd is formed in the gardens, enough for a garden in generall: But to form speciall in the
streets, which are many, as there diuices in Brain Gardner. Neither is the wit and the art
of a skilled Gardner in this Poynt not be praised, that can Worke more variety for breeding more
Choyce desirable, and all those things, where the owner is able and willing to be satisfied. The number
of blocks, mazes and knots is so great, and diuersly men are so delighted that I leau euery
house-wife with her own, especially given the creation of many Downe, there were benefits,
but to fill the role much However, lest I depriue all its delights and address, which in his
opinion these few reports choyse, new, and take note of this general,
that all plots are square, and all are lined with a Priuit, raisins,
berries Fea, Rosas, Thorne, Rosemary, Bee-flowers, Aesop, Sage, or
as such. Usually he used to wake up early, but on the 3rd of his stay at Steingart, being
summertime the sun was so strong and bright and it was piercing through the high, narrow multi
paned window.Frantz was in a dilemma to wake up or not but he was
in a dream with his eyes fixed on the door hoping that some one would
come to wake him up as usual.

 

A tradition that the younger John Tradescant entered himself on a
privateer against the Algerines.

He hoped he might have a chance to bring apricot trees from the country.

Known to have taken a voyage going to Virginia, he returned with lots of new plants. Two Tradescant
were the way of bringing a wide range of species into the region.

Tradescants' Aster and Spiderwort are both well known in this day, and have been immortalized,
by Linnæus, among the botanical engineers making a brand new genus under the names of the Spiderwort.

When the older Tradescant first came to England and settled down,
he created a bunch of natural history, medals, couns, and some "uncommon
rarities".

Information on them was written in a book published in one year during
1656.

Under the name of Museum Tradescantianum, his son wrote it.

This Museum was often visited by upper-citzens including, Charles
the First, henrietta Maria, Robert and William Cecil, Earls of Salisbury,Archbishop
Laud, George Duke of Buckingham, and many others.

"Sept. 17, 1657, I went to see Sir Robert Needham, at Lambeth, a relation
of mine, and thence to John Tradescant's museum."

 But the mind was as clearly the outcome
of the physical organization as the melodies of the harpsichord is the outcome of the instrumental
mechanism. The mind shared the decrepitude of the body within excessive old age, and within the
full vigour of youth a sudden sting towards the brain powers forever spoil the intellect of
a Plato or a Shakspeare. But the third principle,--the soul,--the something deposited within
the body, which yet was towards exist it? Where was that soul no
whereas out of the ken of the anatomist?

 

But, even more, it renders to its observers the definitive impression of Direction. It is due
to the influence of gravity that we are able to distinguish between Up and Down, and from there
to begin to envision the concept of 3-dimensional Space. Wherefore he sought the
forgiveness of myself and my child. Dom. Consul asked whether he would swear upon his life
that this confession was true, he answered, "Yes!" and immediately
fell over and died.

Meanwhile, time dragged on with the people on the mountain, who had
come from many different places to see my child burnt, and they came
running down the hill in long rows, one after another.

Claus Neels, my ploughman, saw what had happened and wept in joy. He then told us how he overheard
the sheriff promise a pig to Lizzie in the garden, to repay her for bewitching her own pig
to bring my child into evil repute. All of this, Claus had kept to himself for fear of being
questioned. Many people were surprised and saddened for her misfortunes, and many came and kissed
my the hands and feet of my daughter and myself. They loved us now as much as they had hated
us previously.
As my father used to say, "The people's hate is death. Their love, a passing breath!"
The town gossip help my child in his lap, as if he was her father, as I myself couldn't have
wept as much as him. My daughter, however, did not cry, but begged for a horsemen to tell
her handmaiden at Pudgla what had happened to us. He, of course, did so immediately to make
her happy. The court, however, was stil unsatisfied, and Dom. Consul told the lord of the bridge,
which was believed to be bewitched, and that my daughter had bewitched
it herself.

The lord answered that this was odd, as his horse had indeed broken a leg upon that old bridge
and he had taken the sheriff's horse instead. He did not believe it was the fault of my daughter,
however, but that it was a natural sort of bewitchment. He then proposed to the court and the spectators
that all of us, including my daughter herself, return and clear her name from suspicion. He
believed that she was perfectly innocent, and he was determined to prove this.
The court agreed and the corpse was carried across the neck of a grey
charger, given to my ploughman by the sheriff.

The lord sat in our cart, but did not sit with us, preferring to sit with the gossip. He also
preferred to be driven by one of his own men rather than the old coachmen. And se we turned
back with Custos Benzensis who had run into a ditch on the wayside.

He went before the children again, and gave a command of reverence,
and the pastor led the Ambrosian Te Deum, moving our spirits deeply.

My child was so deeply moved by this that she put aside her book,
which was damp with tears, gave her hand to the lord and exclaimed,
"How can I thank God and you for that which you have done for me this
day?"

 

In the dramatic poetry written in England during the period encompassing 1590-1640, there is an explosion
of life, a mammonth enthusiasm of abundant and triumphant strength. The titans and gods of
this era, trump all other works of English literature, making them seem boring and trite in
comparison. This era's literature is sappier than any other limb of the bay-tree. It is like
the denseness of the forest compared with the formal garden or a
park.

It is obvious that the weedy undergrowth and thorns are overwhelming
to the gardeners and park rangers who tend to the domestic animals
and the potted plants in the formal gardens and private reserves in
the tamer realms of literature.

 After
returning abroad, he returned to England with no money left in 1826. He then looked into Sir
Hugh Smyth, his supposed father.

He discovered that his father had been dead for a long time and that the title and estates
had been passed to Sir John. Because of this, he believed that it was useless to try to acquire
any resources from his belated father.

Furthermore, he believed that he should support himself for the eleven years, which followed
by lecturing on education at schools and institutions throughout
England and Northern Ireland.

Until this time, he had never made any inquisitions for things that the Marchioness of Bath had
informed him were under the care of Mr. Davis; rather, in 1839, he visited Frome in order to
obtain them. These events were proceeded by the news that Davis was dead.
Old Mr. Provis, who raised him, was the only person he met with.

He had some words of anger for refusing to give him any information in regards to his mother.
The interview was very passionate. Provis was so angry with him at first that he hit him.
Provis quickly relented and gave him the Bible, the jewelry and the heir-looms that he possessed.
Also, he showed a photo of Sir Hugh that hung in his own parlor, and gave him a bungle of sealed
paper with instructions to take hem to Mr. Phelps, an eminent solicitor
at Warminister.

The jewelry was made up of four gold rings and two brooches. "J.B" was inscribed on one of the gold
rings, which represented "James Benard".

One of the brooches was written with the words "Jane Gookin" at length.
The claimant further stated that the interview should be preformed on May 19, 1849 with Sir John
Smyth at Ashton Court.
He stated that the baronet seemed to be able to recognize him, but was very disturbed when he told
her who he was. "Sir Richard" was able to calm him by states that he had not come to take
possession of his title or property, rather only wanted a suitable compensation for his family.
Therefore, Sir John's newly acquired nephew should go to Chester and collect his family. They
were to stay at the Ashton Court, while he would live at Heath House.
When he returned from Chester twelve days later, accompanied by his spouse and progeny, the first
news he heard was that of Sir John had died in his bead the previous morning after his last visit.

All his hopes were destroyed. He then returned to his old trade of
stump orator, which he pursued from 1839 to 1851.

This time was used unsuccessfully to procure a lawyer to take up his tort. It was not until
in the later year that he was able to acquire those services. When one of the offers for services
was presented with all the information he was able to lay claim to
what was owed to him before, her Majesty's judges at Gloucester sets
claims.

This is according to his own account.
During the testimony he stated that Provis had two sons.

He also, stated his relationship with Provis's eldest son, John. Furthermore, he descried his
life in the carpenter's house, and referred to himself as "the gentleman
of the place".

He also, stated that he wore red morocco shoes, that were never allowed to be without his nurse.
Ultimately he admitted to have "[done] some mischief in the town,
and according to his station in life, for which nobody was allowed
to check him".

 

In the heat of the summer, we reminisced as we wandered around the
yard, remembering the games we had played among the bushes, flowers
and trees when we were young.

After we had laughed over the fun we used to have together, we went
into the house and soon found ourselves in Grandma's room, where we
began to discuss grandma, and Bobby as well.

It wasn't any time at all before the day was done and night had fallen. Lottie and I shared
a room, and we were up far into the night chatting.

Lottie was much more worldly about men than I, which made me blush in my naivete, but finally
she got me feeling comfortable enough that I could even check out
my two older cousins, which, to my surprise, I did with relish.

Even then, though, my own dear brother, in my mind always cherished as a sweet grade school
tyke, was never out of my mind.

How had I grown this old without realizing that my mother was Grandma's oldest child? That being
the case, Bobby would be the owner of Beecham Park, rather than Harry,
who was the child of my dear uncle, now passed.

Bobby had not taken the news gracefully. When Grandma related this information to him, he stammered
something and later told me how disappointed he was about his new
responsibilities.

"I was planning to be an explorer, not a boring old estate owner.

I wanted to travel to darkest Africa, have adventures, wander around
and get lost like Dr. Livingstone, but guess what?

Looks like I won't get to do any of that now!"
Right before bed he had come over to me, put his arm around me, and whispered, "Well, at least
it won't happen to me for a long time, thank goodness.

And when I do finally have to come live here and be in charge, will
you come and live here too, dear sister?

I'll let you take care of everything, and that will make the whole thing much better, won't
it?

"
 

These days have no warmth and move without sunlight. Either the stars provide light, or the
dim sunset blisters. Occasionally this boggy and dingy panorama of swamps makes me reminiscent
of times I've heard the wildlife call. I am temporarily lost in the excitement of a memory as
I gaze at the grass-laden path.

While it may not be a deep thought, it tugs at my heartstrings regardless. This is my home.
This land may seem ordinary or less, but this is the place on earth where I am rooted. The
scents of the wind and the ground and the feeling of never being alone even in solitude. 
I
hear a woman cry "Leave this heart of mine behind and give me liberty!"

For this woman longed to unshackle her soul and experience the liberation of solitude. In such
a situation one only needs the perseverance to continue and the presence
of mind to remember.

She must imagine that she is leaving her heart open to the Clairvoyance of a Godly imagination.
For that imagination is everything to her, lowly and high.

She was indeed quite brave and achieved great deeds - indeed she
was also quite apt to remember.

She didn't even forget to mind her pitiful and disgraceful brother. She found this strength from
inside herself, where her Godlike creativity propelled her forward.

In this woman and this land I unshackle my chains and finally feel completely free.
Even this sense of creativity, this powerful tool which allows one
to endure, is a burden to her.

She cannot carry it fully and still believe herself worthy.
The world is hopeless without imagination, but is the world equally
as powerful a motivator if conceptualized as a true force?

The woman remains steadfastly alert against her own creativity as
she does against her fellow men, whose deception she is not prepared
to tolerate without a struggle.

Reason trumps imagination in the end, she only wants to view the
world through a clear lens, and thus understand reality.

Indeed, she believed this was the best way to relate to her surroundings.
The world is not entitled to the riches of those who were not so blessed
in the afterlife.

As the modern Calvinist understands damnation, so she understood that she was chained to misery.
This melancholy would prevail throughout her dismal life in this
swamp.

Given this, she was an unbridled skeptic of all chances of happiness,
viewing them as "too good to be true" unless they almost literally
knocked down her door.

Horroscopes, needless to say were irrelevant to her, nor good dreams, nor the firy sunsets of
this land.

Reason led her to believe that her destiny was death. She lived in misery - prematurely inhabiting
her coffin.

"My inner spirit is brave" she would rightly say, but given her addiction to reason she could not
fully embrace this hopeful saying. She was addicted to misery, despite
the reassurance of inner strength.

"I am alive now and thus will not pass away" she tried to convince
herself despite only feeling a deep anguish and sting.

Her poems may sound like cheerful motivational self-talks, but are indeed jaded to the core.

She wrote nothing more than a series of cries for help, whether in poetic form or in longhand
(as in Wuthering Heights). Every poem somewhere reflects the occasional anguish that could not
pass without being put to words.

Her life was one of deep inner misery, and is reflected in her work.
 The scientist said tat
the moon is a scene of life which is more immersed in matter than the life on earth. But then
it aroused many questions, such as; Are there then material organizations living in there? If there is,
how did they dispense with air and water? and why did our telescopes saw no sign of them and whatever
that is that they do?.

A full account explanation about the moon taken from an adepts's view is required. Since we already
known so much of the moon material conditions, the further knowledge
about it could be easily adjusted, rather than the case with invisible
planets.

 In circa 1798 the schedule of the coach was set at leaving every Monday,
Wednesday and Friday afternoon from Mr.Crosse's, the Crown Inn Portsmouth, to Salisbury, Bath
and Bristol, and on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday the coach would depart Gosport to arrive
at the White Hart Inn, Bristol. No one believed Cyrus when one night he drunkenly boasted that we
has going to invent a method of cummunicating between America and Europe that involved underwater
cabling. Who would have believed that it would be possible to talk to people on the other side of
the world. Everyone laughed and mocked Cyrus all the odds were against him and many doubted
he could do what he said. Cyrus was however a man of his word. For the soul, when the separation from the
body enters a new life, whose course is exactly opposite to that of the earth, it must grow steadily
in all the attributes of youth. There will be no diminution of faculties, but a continuous glow,
not mourning over an irretrievable past, but a constant joy to come and present joys. There
will not be passed, but more concrete than this gift that is always slipping from us, and a
much brighter future and more secure than any earth can afford.

Strange that men should fail to look at the sky in this light!

Reckless youth, for whom the world is new and shiny, sparkles and
fun, with a twinkle temptation, there are some little palliation for
neglect of things in heaven, but what we say to him, which went gold
bound for all intoxicating pleasures have lost their shine, and remains
zero, but worries and anxieties of life?

Why is the value of earthly pleasure it has already drained his cup
to the dregs?

Why is the value of property and honor of the framework has already started down the slope of
time? All these baubles would be gladly sacrificed for the return of young people, who have passed
and should not be given to that youth is eternal, which shall not pass? I left crying for their
loved ones, but what should be our pain and despair that death was annihilation - if I knew that
should never meet again for all eternity?

 Quite frequently,
if I gaze ahead to any thing, Fate steps in and decrees otherwise; I don't understand why it
should, but it does. I had not even asked for these good ladies--like vastness on the unassuming,
they were push upon me. One is Irais, the sugary vocalist of the summer, who I love as she
warrants, but of who I absolutely considered I had glimpsed the last for not less than a year,
when she composed and inquired if I would have her over Christmas, as her married man was out of
kinds, and she didn't like him in that state.

Neither manage I like ill husbands, so, full of understanding, I pleaded her to arrive, and
here she is. And the other is Minora.

Why I have to have Minora I don't understand, for I was not even cognizant of her reality a
fortnight ago. Then approaching down agreeably one forenoon to breakfast--it was the very day
after my come back from England--I discovered a note from an English ally, who up till then
had been flawlessly innocuous, inquiring me to befriend Minora. I read the note out blaring
for the advantage of the Man of Wrath, who was consuming Spickgans, a delicacy much searched after
in these parts. "Do, my costly Elizabeth," composed my ally, "take some observe of the poor thing.
She is revising art in Dresden, and has nowhere literally to proceed
for Christmas.

She is very determined and hardworking--"

"Then," cut off the Man of Wrath, "she is not pretty. Only unattractive young women work hard."

"--and she is actually very clever--"
"I manage not like quick-witted young women, they are so stupid," afresh cut off the Man of
Wrath.
"--and except some kind animal like yourself takes shame on her she will be very lonely."

"Then let her be lonely."
"Her mother is my oldest ally, and would be substantially caused anguish
to believe that her female child should be solely in a foreign village
at such a season."

"I manage not brain the anguish of the mother."

"Oh, costly me," I called out intolerantly, "I will have to inquire her to come!"
"If you should be inclined," the note went on, "to play the good Samaritan,
costly Elizabeth, I am affirmative you would find Minora a brilliant,
smart companion--"

"Minora?" interrogated the Man of Wrath.

The April baby, who has had a nursery governess of an entirely alarmingly
zealous kind adhered to her individual for the last six weeks, looked
up from her baked bread and milk.

"It noise like islands," she commented pensively.
The governess coughed.

"Majora, Minora, Alderney, and Sark," clarified her pupil.
I examined her severely.
"If you are not very careful, April," I said, "you'll be a genius when you augment up and disgrace
your parents."  
Miss Jones looked as though she did not like Germans.
I am aghast she despises us because she conceives we are foreigners--an
mind-set of brain rather British and wholly to her credit; but we,
on the other hand, consider her as a foreigner, which, of course,
makes things complicated. Much of the land that was formely for waste and patures has been brought under cultivation.
Still to this day only one half of Germany has been cultivated, leaveing 33% of total food
cosumption to be imported. Here at this point, I stop - because at this point Ireland fate
has reach its crisis. This calculation was in executed operation not in three weeks time, when
the resistants, the defector, or the Ireland people, to every friend sorrow, to reconciliationa
and harmony, of the Irish name, and connection to the British, took their stand and stood as
opposition to the King's troops. The scene of blood has began. Ireland fight with all her strenght
in the spasm, no matter what fate awaits them - whether victory of
defeat - their sense of humanity, loyalty, and patriotism have weep
over the event!

 For instance, in the eight grade the history
of the Roman Empire after Augustus was given short shrift, and in
the ninth grade, they picked up with the barbaric invasions.

In that way, they could avoid the origins and early history of the
Christians, which was the same reason why modern history was only
covered until 1789.

Footnote 6326, M. Guizot, "Memoires," vol. II

Footnote 6327, A well-known and well-educated politician and man of
the world said in 1850, "There's really no such thing as pedagogy."

 Bridget's knowledge
of human nature makes her truly different from other older sisters.

She is far more cold and manipulative. Her problem was that she wanted her little sister to
marry a rich man, and she wanted to profit from this as well.

It was no surprise when the soldier Nelly loved went missing, because
it looked like Bridget's wish would come true.

Just when it looked as though everything was falling into place, she learned that the brother-in-law
she didn't want might be the man in the hospital with a broken memory.

Mrs. Humphrey Ward was not one to fear melodrama: an enviable skill
indeed.

The two visits to the camp at X----(whose thin disguise will not occlude the memory of any contemporary
Englishman) were wonderful.

The last chapters were as moving as anything Mrs. Ward has given
us in her populist style and profound manner.

*****

Mr. E. F. Benson has been developing a large history of the middle-aged.

His protagonists have been at least middle-aged, and the title of
his new novel, An Autumn Solving (Collins), made me feel more expectant
than surprised.

The cover art depicted an elderly man eyeing a much younger girl, and this gives away some
of the surprises of the book.

However, even to a jaded reviewer, this Benson novel has the humor
and insight I've come to expect.

I will not reveal too much of the plot.

The romantic tales describe Keeling, a father, husband, tradesman,
mayor, and baronet, and his feelings for his young secretary.

The secretary's work in Keeling's library reveals the author's genius, as the plot pivots upon
it.

Keeling's wife is a woolly-witted matron quite at home in Benson's work, who is both comic and
horrible in turn. The book will be met with great welcome.
*****
Sir Sidney Colvin has been engaged in his biography of John Keats,
and his biography, "Life of John Keats," combines a rare blend of
scholarship and empathy, as well as clarity and enthusiasm.

Colvin retired from his work at the Print Room of the British Museum,
and has been preparing since first opening the "magic casement" to
write this biography.

 The south has attempted to use the influence imparted by this production,
as its most frightening weapon, against us in this enormous rebellion; the sole result of their
command of this indispensable production is whatever countenance the rebels have received or hereafter
expect to receive from abroad. They prey upon our commerce on high seas with their piratical
ships which were built using this influence, which also supplies them with arms and munitions
of war at home. But she appears quite Coy, and wou'd hardly let him salute her; Upon
which the Bawd advises her, he's a worthy Gentleman, and one that
is worthy of her Love.

What Love will I receive(replies the cunning Jade) from one that is already betrothed?
 Wealthy
people, solid and respected middle class. What drives them to play with a mystery such as this.
The room was fully lit from the ceiling and the walls. On a deserted part of the dining table
lay a small flat parcel in the name of David Steel, Esq. The novelist torn of the cover and
discovered a bunch of white paper beneath. He quickly went over the pile of paper which contained
seventy five Bank of England notes for £10 each. It was a balance of a loan, the price paid for
Steel’s presence. All that he is now supposed to do is to put money in his pocket and just
leave the house. A few more steps and Steel was free and that no one noticed what he did. It
was a hesitation, but Steel managed to fought it down He could profession frankly, but he could never put his heart
into it. And even whether he could possess displayed ten moments as much energy, whether his
aptitude for corporation had been ten moments as great, whether Mr. Ferguson had evaluated him
so greatly as towards rob him as articled clerk, whether he had traversed everybody his investigations
and been duly admitted, whether the brightest possibilities within
such a life as his had become realities and he had attained at last
towards a low share within the business,--what would be the end of
this most improbable success?

 Then he let us ride with him, if
we wanted, on the animal that was with him, and we flew above walls and churches and such-like,
until we came to the grassy field of Blockula. (That is, Scott's Brockenberg within the Hartz
forest.)

We scraped some material from some of the altars and old clocks in
a few of the churches we visited.

Afterward he gave us a container of ointment to apply to our skin, and also a saddle along with
a wooden nail and hammer to pound the nail into the saddle. We can no longer concern ourselves
with necessary duties, whether regarding each other or the race, than to make more delightful
than where love resides in the House of Life.

The right of women regarding love.  Some ask, what is the part of
female in the sex act. She turned to her hostess.

"Now, my dear, what did you say? Of course I'd like you to persudae our friends to come too,"
the widow explained. "What a delightful joy it would be--to get a
way from London for a few days!" The generally favourable opinion of MR. AUGUSTUS JOHN'S striking
portrait of MR. LLOYD GEORGE is not shared by everybody. The following criticism of the picture
has reached us, and as it represents a point of view which, so far as we know, has not found sympathy
in the Press opinions which have already appeared, we print it for the edification of the artist,
the sitter and any others who may have a few moments to devote to
the subject 
"Any lady requiring Head of two Parlourmaids or Under
Parlourmaid, we know of several."--Morning Paper.

* * * * *

"Bombardier G. Dougherty, R.A.M.C. ... has been given the D.C.M. ... for twice repairing telephone
wires under a terrific storm of fire."--Morning Paper.
Conscientious objectors will note the new rank and duty of R.In the first place, surely it lacks
dignity. In it Mr. LLOYD GEORGE, who is pre-eminently a man capable of looking you straight
in the eye, is depicted as looking someone else obliquely in the eye. I would that his strong
features had been accompanied by a direct and thoughtful gaze, instead of that petulant side-glance,
which to all of us who know the smiling candour of the MINISTER OF
MUNITIONS is so foreign an expression.

Hanging from a cord is something in the nature of an aid to vision.

I cannot determine whether it is a pince-nez or a monocle.

The uncertainty is irritating.

Is it possible that the MINISTER has taken to wearing a single eye-glass?

If so, why has not the artist put it in the sitter's eye? And as to the hair--Heaven forbid
that I should cast any reflection upon any man of Mr. LLOYD GEORGE's
age possessing abundant locks; on the contrary, I congratulate him;
but in all my experience I have never yet known a portrait to be taken
without the sitter being requested first of all to brush his hair.

Why has Mr. AUGUSTUS JOHN flown in the face of all precedent by neglecting
this simple yet desirable precaution?

A.M.C. men.
 The person in the picture seems joyous, and the beauty of ascension, rather than the
torture of the crucifixion, is the theme.
This painting is akin to the "Madonna della Scodella" in several artistic respects.
 Sometimes Aunt Pen has found a doctor or medicine, food, or classes, or something
that gave him great feelings of relief, then rise and go home, and the praise of our administration
and all was said twice as much as possible to do before used They
come and tell us wonderful stories of domestic skills of our mother,
and will be entirely new, and he struck the table with laughter and
enter to tea parties, boutique, and then, everyone hoped that Aunt
Pen to live forever - and in the ground floor.

 Besides, the banner or the Cid, whose colour has worn off due to the
passing of time and damp condition of the church over the period, is on the right and opposite
to the coffer suspended by two chains on the left of the dome at the Monastery of St. Pedro
de Cardena. And the second of the two coffers presented in pledge to the Vidas and Jews Rachel
is kept in Burgos at the Church of St. Agueda
Things have so changed that no blazonry or other devices are to be seen. The shield was hanging
against the wall, covered with skin, in the middle. Besides the keys of the coffer, a large round
chest of satin wood, the Sacristy was containing the setting of the cup of amethyst which was
used at table and one of the caskets which was sent with the myrrh and balsam by the Soldan
of Persia.
The casket is in two parts, the lid which can close over the lower part, and it is fashioned
after the vessels in which the three Kings of the East, as they were bringing their offerings
to the newly born Christ, were represented.

It is engraved on the upper part, the image of the Savior holding
the world in his hand and on the other part the figure of a marvelously
twisted and coiled serpent.

These images represent the adventure of the victory Jesus achieved
over the enemy of the human race.

No man knows how, the noble chess board with men represented in gold
and silver has long been lost.

This also was in the Monastery in the time of King Don Alfonso the Wise. Moreover, in the
Sacristy there was a precious stone, which was of great size and black and sparkling, and no
lapidary had yet known its name. The Monastery have had an infant Jesus and the emblem of
the Passion reverently engraved.

It is believed that the great cross of crystal which is wrought and made so well with the greatest
of ingenuity is actually made of different pieces of crystal belonged
to the Cid.

The most precious relic of the Cid Ruydiez which is valued, safeguarded and venerated in this Monastery
is the cross which he wore upon his breast when he set out for the battle. It is made of plain
silver in four equal parts and each part covered with three plates of gold and in the flat
part of each, five sockets set with precious stones while the remaining ones with white stones.
While the precious stones are larger the white ones are smaller and some of the stones among
them are still left fastened with filigrane.

In the middle of the cross is a raised part which is in the manner
of an artichoke ending in white and green enamel.

It is said that in the hollow within are certain relic with a piece of the holy wood of the
true cross.

The part of the writing which can still be read implies: ...so much may at this day be realized...CRUCIS
SALVATOR ** SANCTI PERI ** PORTO.

King Don Alfonso had obtained the upper limb of the cross and had made it into a cross to wear himself
when he went to battle, as he had faith that he would become victorious if did so. Little more
of the lower limb, than that to which the plates of silver and gold
were attached on, was present.

All the same, from end to end this cross is little more than a quarter.

There is no doubt that the soul of the blessed Cid rest and reign with the blessed in Heaven.
His holy body and tomb have been visited and revered by men of all
nations at all times; especially knights and soldiers who knelt to
kiss his tomb and scraped a little of the stone to carry with them
as relic.

They commented that they felt their heart strengthened and gone away reassured that they would remain
strong in their battle for good cause.
Due to the great virtues of the Cid, the miracles which were brought by him and owing to the great
devotion, King Philip the Second gave order, to deal with the Court of Borne concerning the canonization
of Rodrigo Diaz, the venerable knight, to his ambassador Don Diego Hurtado de Mendoza. The ambassador
was a person of great learning and one of the descendants of the Cid.

He being greatly desirous that this to be effected, sent to the Monastery with papers and depositions
and made a memorial of the virtues and miracles of the Campeador, showing reasons why this
blessed knight should be canonized. Because of the loss of Sienna, before the matter could be
proceeded in, he was made to leave Rome and so the pious deed cannot be brought about.
However, the Cid has always been regarded with utmost reverence as a special servant of God, and
addressed as the Blessed Cid, and the Venerable Rodrigo Diaz. May his sole rest and reign with
the blessed in Heaven.
Amen.
 Lysander was in great affliction at hearing this bad news, but remembering that
I had an aunt who lived some distance from Athens, where she lived
the cruel law could not be put in force against Hermia (this law does
not extend beyond the limits City), Hermia proposed to be stealing
his father's house that night, and go with him to his aunt's house,
where he would marry her.

"I'll find you," said Lysander, "in the forest a few kilometers from the city, and in this beautiful
forest, where we have often gone with Helena in the pleasant month of May."
With this taste Hermia proposed agreement, and told one of her intended flight but her friend
Helena. Helena (as maidens do stupid things for love) very little generous resolved to go and
tell Demetrius, although she could expect no benefit from betraying the secret of his friend,
but the poor pleasure of following her faithless lover to the jungle, she also knew that Demetrius
is going there in search of Hermia.
The wood, which Lysander and Hermia proposed to meet, was a favorite
of small creatures known as fairies.

King Oberon, Titania and Queen of the Fairies, in all their little
train of followers in this wood held midnight shows.

Between this little king and queen of sprites did not happen, at this moment, a sad disagreement:
never met by moonlight in the shadows in this pleasant wood, but they fought until all the elves
that slide adventures in the acorn jelly and hide from fear.
The cause of this unhappy disagreement was Titania refusing to give Oberon a little changeling
boy, whose mother had been Titania's friend and, after his death, the queen of the fairies stole
a child from its mother and raised him in the forest.

Night, where lovers meet in this wood, as Titania was with some of her bridesmaids, she met Oberon
attended by his retinue of courtiers tale.
"Ill met by moonlight, proud Titania," said the king of fairies.

She replied: "What jealous Oberon, is that you? Hadas, stop by the
I've given to your company."

"Tarry, rash fairy," said Oberon, "I'm not your Lord? Why does Titania cross her Oberon? Give
me your little changeling boy my hand."

"Put your heart at rest," replied the Queen, "your whole fairy kingdom
buys not the child of me."

She left her lord in great anger.

"Well, go your way," said Oberon: "before the morning dawns I will
torment thee for this injury.

"
Oberon sends Puck, his chief advisor and private favorite.
Puck (or as sometimes called Robin Goodfellow) was a skilled and playing jokes mischievously
comic sprite in nearby villages, sometimes enter into the dairies and skimming the milk, sometimes
casts its light and airy way to butter , rotation, and while he was
dancing his fantastic form in the vessel in vain the dairy-maid who
would work to change the cream into butter: nor had the village of
shepherds the success of any better when fans decided to play Puck
in brewing copper, the beer was sure to be pampered.

After a few good neighbors gathered to drink some beer at home together,
Puck jumped a cup of beer in the form of a roasted crab, and when
some old goody was drinking, he bob against her lips, and loss of
beer on his chin dry, and the next moment, when the old woman set
herself seriously to tell their neighbors a sad and melancholy story,
Puck slid his stool with three legs under it, and the United States
toppled the poor old woman, and then the gossips would hold their
sides and laugh at her, and I swear I never wastes a happy hour.

"Come hither, Puck," said Oberon to this little happy wanderer of
the night ", bring me the flower which maids call Love in idleness,
the juice of the purple flower laid on the eyelids of those who sleep
when they are awake, Doat the first thing they see.

Some of the juices of the flower which is reduced in the eyes of my Titania when asleep and the
first thing you see when she opens her eyes she will fall in love,
although it is a lion or a bear an intervention monkey, a monkey or
busy: and before I take this charm from view outside, I can do with
another charm I know, I do gives me the child was me.

"

Puck, who loved wounded in his heart, was off with this big party for his master, and ran to fetch
the flower, and Oberon while waiting for the return of Puck, he observed Demetrius and Helena
enter the wood: Demetrio listened blame him Helena to monitor him and after many bad words on the
other hand, mild reproaches and Elena who reminds him of his former love and true faith to her
profession, he left (he said) at the mercy of wild animals, and She
ran after him as fast as he could.

 The alien atmosphere was
absent of all noise. The martians made not a sound as they moved.
They mentioned that when we understood the details of tapping into
the universal reservoir of space electricity we could develop a space
ship closer to their current model. 

One of his earliest compositions was a fantasy for four hands, there are about thirteen different
character movements, taking about thirty-two pages of fine writing. His brother remarks that no
one ends in the key where it began. It seems that the passion for the mysterious object, for
his next work, "Lament of Hagar, of the thirteen movements in different
keys, incoherent.

After this again, "Still Fantasy" that the words Schiller. This is a seventeen movements,
and positive changes in their wandering key. It is full of reminiscences, "The creation of Haydn"
and other works. Sound stimulation of the boys is really weak. It was only thirteen years old he heard
opera, and not until a quarter really first class work, Spontini's "Vestal, in the 1812th Three
years later, he's probably heard Gluck's "Iphigenia en Tauride," work which, in its assessment
of the eclipsed them all. During the year, the sixth and seventh symphonies, choral fantasy
and parts of the mass in C, and Overture, "Coriolanus," by Beethoven. He was a great admirer of
Mozart, in his diary under the date 13th June 1816, he speaks of the quintet, "Blessed, as if
from a distance, is the magic tones of Mozart's music strikes my ears. What unthinkable alternative
power and tenderness are not Schlesinger's magic playing to impress him in the deep of my heart
Such a stunning display to stay on my soul !, there to work for the well past all the power
of time and circumstances.

In the darkness of this life they reveal bright, beautiful perspective, inspiring confidence
and hope about Mozart, Mozart. what countless consolatory images bright, better world you're
stamped on our souls! "
Currently Schubert entered his father's school in order to avoid the rigorous military service,
and remained a teacher of primary branches in three years.

His first major composition of the mass, which produced an honorable 16th October 1814, and many
good judges pronounced the equal of any similar work of this kind, perhaps with the exception of
Beethoven's mass in C. 1815 anger compositions are fully taken into possession soul Schubert,
and since then poured from the vessel constant inspiration of the
succession of all sizes and characters, very few of which took place
in his life. 

Aside from the losses incurred by such a valuable troop, an unsavory enemy might try to bring
ammo to his allies by disguising himself as a member of the Red Cross.
It's difficult to see soldiers dressed in khaki at night time in the sand, but once the Red
Cross members find the wounded, they try to assess the wound as quickly as possible. Typically
they will start out by applying a bandage or splinting the injury.

The injured is then placed on a stretcher and taken to a dressing station at the end of the
battlefield. Sometimes, if there aren't a lot of stretchers, the injured soldier is simply
carried by two men. Each ambulance wagon available can hold up to nine people, and they are
loaded up from the dressing stations to take the more severely injured
soldiers to a field hospital.

At the field hospital, men are laid on the ground atop a waterproof sheet, and protected by a
blanket. RAMC officers will evaluate which soldiers will need to be operated on, and oversee
bandaging, dressing and splinting of others. When an ambulance train comes, it will carry
roughly 120 men to a base hospital located at either Rondebosch, De Aar, Orange River or Wynberg.

This small work can not accurately cover the scope of the battles of Lord Methuen, but the British
public is already well-versed in the knowledge about the engagements at Belmont, Modder River and
Graspan.

The tiny railway station of Belmont is, quite literally, in the middle of nowhere. To ascend the
hills surrounding it, soldiers first had to run across a completely
flat, barren expanse with nowhere to take cover.

There were scattered stones and bushes, but nothing that would provide
sufficient protection.

Considerable losses were taken when the soldiers were delayed as
they tried to cut through the wire fences on either side of the train
tracks.

The Boers were never committed to taking a stand against the men at Belmont. Some go so far
as to say that it was not much more than a few outposts on their end, possibly manned by only
800 soldiers. The enemy had their horses at the ready, and when Lord Methuen's men appears,
there were very few Boers left to fight. Many of them had already mounted their horses and
fled to Graspan. Nearly all of the soldiers who stayed behind were left behind as corpses, many
of whom fell victim to the bayonet.

The bayonet is able to sever a massive amount of tissue, and once one is attacked by a bayonet,
they have little chance of surviving. Even mishandling the bayonet of your own personal rifle
can lead to a debilitating injury.
 

To promote a healthy fear of authority, university, government every now and then lashed a student
in a wheelchair tail in Holborn, or pillory sad apprentice Law in Chancery Lane, or hung on
the gallows at the old entrance to the inn.
Anecdote-book is packed with good examples that demonstrate the political excitability Inns in
the past, and energy with which Ministers used to suppress the first signs of disobedience.
Rushworth records adventures of four young men Inn Lincoln, who throw the party of prudence and sobriety
in their hard Inn pub, and drank the "confusion of the Archbishop of Canterbury." Another
day, full of repentance, and head-pain, the perpetrators brought
before the Council, and called to account for his scandalous behavior,
which would fare poorly Earl of Dorset had done them good service,
and therefore taught privately in their defense that It is not drunk
mess archbishop, but Archbishop's enemies.

This brilliant team, the Council stipulated that the socket - in which case the information was
received - unable to catch the last word toast, so young gentlemen were released to "light warning,"
much to their own surprise and disappointment of the informant.
The political explosion inns of Charles II. "With time Narcissus Luttrell issue in the next
figure in his diary, under date of June 15 and 16, 1681 -" The 15th was the project settings
on foot Grayes Inn accounting for the address to his majesty thankes
late for his statement and moved day in the hall for some dinner,
and is (as usual) he sent to bar Messe they recommended to the bench,
but was rejected as a bench and Barr, but on the other hand they see
anything that doe in this way is about Gott forty together and went
to the pub, and the order said address on behalf of Mr truelye loyall
Grayes Inn. sticklers for the head of the Sir William Seroggs addition,
jun, Robert Fairebeard, Captain Stowe, Captain Radcliffe, a Yalden,
the other is the number of 40 or so, many of them sharpers the city
officials are not out of your time, and young men newly come from
the university.

And some of them went 17th in Windsor, and presented the address of His Highness said: Who was
pleasd to them thank a game (it is said) knighthood for Mr Fairebeard said, that proves to be
an error since.
 Is it a portrait of Franz von Sickingen, as Kugler supposes?
The print is said to bear the date 1513. I have it, but have failed to discover any date at all.
H.J.H. 
Sheffield. 
Blackguard. 
When did this word Come into
use, and from where? The being the author presumes has
created the primordial mass and who suffused space with a misty substance made of these materials
and subject to these laws so that the solar system resulted from
them is of course omnipotent. His testimony sustained that which was affirmed by the enemies
of the system.

The testimony of Mr. Boyd, formerly of Pentonville, had the same effect.
Boyd was appointed as assistant-superintendent to Darlington, Maria
Island. She's really quite fond of him for one who is not usually
given to showing affection.

And in his hand as he went was a small bunch of tiny bells shaped blossoms, hanging on slender
stems. 

He carried the simple flowers as he went to the Marry Anne,
lying out of the water for repairs.So those that were working with
him said afterwards, as they remembered this small incdident. 

He
did not seem to be himself, strangely quiet and his thoughts seemed
to be far off. Despite that, with every failure, he said he was closing in on the solution.
At long last, and after many gut-wrenching experiences, a commercially valuable solution finally
arrived, even if the problem was not yet fully reconciled.

The years he spent toiling and denying himself luxuries were nearing a successful end, but he
discovered that he was about to begin yet another extended period of desperate and discouraging
work. Scraping together the funds necessary for securing a patent proved troublesome. He would
need more money for his inventions completion and perfection. Therefore, using his model, he
approached anyone and everyone who could possibly provide encouragement and financial backing,
including engine manufacturers, manufacturers that use engines, steamboat
and railroad companies, and electric and power companies.

Not only was his family sustaining on only small rations, he himself had not eaten well for years.
Over and over, potential investors stated the same hesitations: "Yes, your proposition looks
good, but it is a question of practicality. Considering the best minds in the world have been
working on this problem, and have yet to find a viable solution,
leads me to believe a solution will never be found.

Even if you are close to an answer, you have yet to find it, and because of that, we cannot invest
in your proposed solution."

REAPING HIS REWARD

Even though T. debated, pleaded, and demanded an audience to demonstrate his solution, his efforts
were in vain.

That is, until one day, an attorney T. had consulted said, "I am not in a financial position
to invest in anything or anyone but myself, but, to be perfectly honest and frank, I feel your
solution is viable. Mr. J, from the T. & B. Company, and I are on
good terms with one another.

This problem has interested him for quite some time, and he, too, has been working on a solution
for years. He is fully versed in every phase of this problem and its solution, and I believe
can find a use for your device.

I could be wrong, but I have a strong feeling that Mr. J will let you present your device to him.
If your demonstration will go as smoothly as you assert it will, Mr. J has the position to give
you an opportunity to perfect it, if it is, in fact, perfectible. I will give you a letter
you can use to introduce yourself to him. This represented the end of T.'s struggle and the beginning
of his prosperity, as evident by his beautiful residence located on a wide boulevard. His invention
is highly valuable and slowly coming ino use, even if he has yet to perfect it. Were he not perpetually
working on, perfecting, improving, and striving to find a final and complete solution to the
problem, T.'s invention likely would be experiencing extremely widespread use.

CHAPTER VIII

THE IMPRACTICAL MAN

Sydney Williams wrote us, saying, "My life is a failure, and I do not know why.

In his middle life, my grandfather Williams decided to study to enter the ministry, and therefore
moved his family across the Potomac River from Virginia. He must have been a planter, since
it is said he freed some slaves. Grandfather Williams eventually became a Congregational minister.
As for my Grandfather Jacobs, though paralyzed on one side before my birth and an invalid for most
of my life, at one time was a carpenter.
My father became a minister after his college graduation. After preaching
for years, he began working with a publishing house that specializes
in religious works. He, at last, was in charge of the work at St.
Paul. I believe it was there that he won an election, making him the
president of a small girls' school. He began serving the school in
June, and the following November, I was born. There are five girls
and three boys still living, and three boys died as infants before
I was born. I am the youngest of eleven children. 

We resided at
the girls' school until I was almost twelve years old. My father was
successful in enlarging the school considerably. It was an extremely dark night, somehow blacker than
any they had seen before. Perhaps the darkness was a premonition of what was to come next as
they were imprisoned within the platoons of French soldiers. Huddling together for warmth they
could move within the group, but no one was allowed to leave. The square rapidly filled with cavalry
protecting wagons filled with all forms of government regalia. The archives, plate and pictures
jumbled together, looking sad and forlorn. The old podesta and his beautiful betrothed daughter
entered a carriage, the girl escorted by the stranger. The procession began to move with the
stranger astride a magnificent charger at it’s head.

He bid a solemn farewell to the new governor who stood at the window,
surrounded by his grenadiers.

Formalities attended to the procession dashed forward on the road to Milan.

Day dawned again and the citizens rushed out to see what had become of their city. At first everything
seemed the same, but then they realized that the magnificent Venetian Lion was gone. No sign
could be found, it had simply vanished into that dark, cold night. The citizens mourned, sure
that all was lost. But as day followed day they became used to this new way of being. In just
twelve short months time that healer of all wounds brought a new
surprise.

The old podesta was back, no longer a podesta but instead a French prefect. He also brought back his
daughter, no longer betrothed but instead a mother. Her beautiful daughter looking so much like
the stranger, who was stranger no longer.

He was not the man of magic and mystery that they had believed, this French general of a division.
While not the Diavolo they had believed he was still successful in finding money whenever it was
needed. His theatrical entry into Vicenza, complete with the exploding steam-boat (which nearly
ended the entire endeavor), worked in his favor as nothing else could have. If he had come to
directly inquire into the nakedness of the land he would have been regarded with suspicion.
Instead his sympathetic arrival and the time spent with the old podesta allowed him to turn things
neatly to his favor. He was left with the podesta’s lovely daughter, the podesta’s loyalty,
and the treasury of the state to bequeath to the French. The citizenry found themselves converted
to the French side with no bloodshed and only that one night of fear. The lion of St. Mark,
no longer needed simply took wing from the column and has never been seen again.

Beginning with the plates, the most striking of which is the Frontispiece, Marcus Curtius, by
Le Keux, designed by Martin. We are simply at a loss to describe
this piece. The exceedingly fine detail of the piece somehow translates
into a larger whole which is easily understood. The piece as a whole
leads to sympathy with the artist on a very deep level. However, he was not abandoned;
he had a designated appointment on the excise for over a year, and ten sizeable parishes he had supervised,
with admiration; yes,it had been designated as the primary reason
for the failing of his farm, when it became time to work the fields,
he was always found elsewhere, seeking out the revenue defaulters
within the Demfrieshire valleys, or pouring out pastoral words to
the pleasantness of the land.

 How
many times has the world's greatest voices been discovered by accident!
In America there are many lovely voices and thinking about how many people with successful opera
careers in this country and in others it can't be honestly said that America doesn't produce
opera singers.A lot of these whom I have heard are from New York and are Americans and their
great voices give an idea of what a great opera singer is.
It would be kind of funny sometimes if it wasn't sad, too, that there
are people who mistakenly think they have a future in singing.

Not long ago a young man came to sing for me and he carried a hugh roll of music.He had a very
deep bass voice when he spoke.When I inquired about his biggest problem he had singing with
which he answered"I can't seem to get on key." This was proven when he started to sing and went
up and down the scale until he managed to hit it right.I was asked for my choice between two
songs for him to sing which were "Qui sdegno," or"Magic Flute" by Mozart or "love Me and the World
is Mine."

I chose the latter song. He asked the accompanist to transpose it and upon the man's sugessting
a thrird lower he requested it to be put down an octive.This is where
he sang it.

After he was done I gently but firmly suggessted he find another job instead of music.
 Property
Because under the Romans, fertile land was treated as a collective until a relatively recent
time, to them, the idea of owned property referred not to land, but
to people and animals. I think here we could install a few cupboards with glass shelves, which everyone wants
these days.
So...
That's wonderful, Sanin said, let's think about it. But let me tell you something. And he steered
Frau Lenore and Gemma toward the next room.
The former was a afraid, and the ruler dropped from her hands. Gemma was also nervous, but she
felt better after she looked at Sanin. He was merely self-confidence and determined. The women
were invited to sit as he stood. He talked using his hands and ran them through his hair periodicallly.
That's how he told them about his meeting with Polozov, the trek he might take to Wiesbaden, and
the possibility of selling the estate. Just think, he ended, it might not be necessary for me
to go to Russia. And then we can get married sooner than we thought.
Gemma inquired as to when he had to leave.
He answered that it would have to be in an hour and that a carriage was coming to pick him up.

They asked if he'd write. 
Right after I've spoken with this woman,
he answered. 
Frau Lenore asked if she was very wealthy. 
Yes,
very, because her millionare father left her all his money. 
Great,
just don't sell your property too cheaply. 
Hold your ground and
don't let yourself be overwhelmed. I know you want to marry Gemma
soon, but be cautious in your business dealings. The Nemesis had to go
to Maryport. And since there was no trace of the Rattlesnake, it was considered safe to assume
that it had sunk in the storm; which claimed many more ships that
could be considered more sea-worthy. 

The Turks kept their fire burning until the regiment was shut .The latter had to suffer a loss
of about two hundred men in three minutes; and a large body of Turks, wavering on the edge of
surrender, fell back instead. This disaster dealt a great blow to the Bhopals who never recovered
from it
 

This is the third time We have had yves laying with us in our blue tent.
There is a loud sound shortly after midnight in the building under
our's. The landlord's family have just came back from a pilgrimage
to some distant shrine of the Goddess of Grace. This
rival's blame must be heeded with consideration. Should Massena meet with disgust, he will most likely
incorporate it into his apology. If successful, he would hold find himself entitled to more respect
and praise.

The similar persistent doubts about Jordan's political beliefs are in addition to his military
capacity, but the positive statements of those who have served under
him should hold the slanderers back as well as his blind admirers. As you well know, I have always respected and looked up to my
father. He was a severe, proud and inaccessible person, but I would also add, an excellent
man.
RITA: Well? 

As they continued to sing, Chenos explained that the girl was free because he wanted her to have
her own life. Although this made most people happy, there were some still mourning over their
losses. They rebutted, saying that they wanted to kill Sketupah. He was nasty, crooked, and ugly.
They feared him, but needed help from Chenos' master.

 

Mr. Punch's staff of educated clerks worked to find the publishers and the generous critics of
their work, writing on the cover of Hutchinson's book An English Family, an appreciation that
put it in the same league as The Newcomes, still did little to cause me to like this book.
 enactments of the object is what? Certainly the interest of
the state and no major crimes. State of the wisdom it requires for his own safety, and lest
it should commit the crimes and mistakes of an innocent man hang, but the whole truth be known
. How much will the government and jurisprudence if an innocent man
should be done?

When, therefore, a lawyer admitted the defense of a murderer he is known to follow the law and
order is to serve the best interests of the staff when he forced the prosecution to prove
offense, and not only that, he served as justice itself and not the
only crime.

Even judges have no authority to punish, except those provisions
of the law is followed and the offense is proven.

Who does not heard about the indictment of two Bournes in Vermont, and they urged guilty to
the crime of murder, they had the night before the execution, when the murder of a man put
on the appearance her?

How better justice appeared the room had been made by a loyal, tenacious, and conscience rather
than lawyers conducted such a way that bone bungling of a horse were on duty for the bones
of the murder of a man! That case had to perform their tasks better as a bugbear for a century
than any other legal decisions. "
Mr. Burchard has become quite warm, and has asserted that he would never take a uniform, and
then, no matter what he then needs to gain knowledge, desert to a customer, and he suspicious if
a lawyer has the moral conscience can refuse to protect a key brother allegedly crime. "With regard
to refuse," said he, "proceeds upon the ground made by the doctors, which is not significant
defense should be done, but that statement must be adopted when a crime whether truth can be
proven or not. And I'm at a loss to discover how my friend the doctor can accept the requirements
of the act was called, but insisted that, honest Conscientious lawyers alone can not follow
them. "

Mr. Burchard, feeling that he was somewhat more enthusiastic than
the occasion required, change the theme of this wise: 
"You remember
that a certain company in Philadelphia have made a special deposit
of eighteen thousand dollars in gold at the Trust Company, and some
experts thief with a fake check property income money.

 Before thinking further
whether to decline  I accepted being it the presidents subject
which I had to acknowledge inview of the  matter being too big.I
was asking myself  "what I had in the world" and what I  can claim
in this August presence,proudly that "I had done".

I was like the Farmer who fell down  from height while breaking a yoke  of steers that he held
with a rope by both  his hands.while letting down a pair of bars,
the rope fetched turn around one of his  legs.This has frightened
the steers and the unfortunate farmer was tripped up and snaked off
feet and fell on the rough ground, after  an erratic excursion approximately
one mile  or as long as the rope lasted in a very  lamentable condition.

The neighbours ran to him and gathered and laid him together and one of them asked him to hear
the circumstance in which he hitch a  rope around his leg and the whole incident. There was a
hearty laugher from all who heard the farmer's reply.
But here I am with the President's Rugby ball in my hand and being it a frightful duty, I realized
that I have to do something quickly. and I realised that being it a festive hour, nobody will
be bothered to edify the work for me.. I promise accordingly to use my conscience and effort
to-night to leave this worshipful  company no better than I found
it.

Laughing gentlemen, well intending as one may  be that effect,As he may approach the theme
of  the Forefathers, the minute he sets  foot within its threshold he stops his fooling  and
gets his hat off at once. Those unconscious, pathetic heroes, pulling
their shallop ashore on the Cape yonder in 1620  what reverence
can exceed their merit!

How  richly and how speedily fruitful that seed was, It did not wait for any large unfolding
of  events on these shores to prove the might of  its quickening.  "Westward the star of
empire takes its way." A strong hand of help across the sea to  reinforce the cause of that
Commonwealth, the rise of which marks the epoch of England's  new
birth in liberty.

The pen of New England was indeed the Commonwealth's true nursing mother.It was fertilised
by freedom. Cromwell, Hampden, Sidney, Milton, Owen, were disciples of teachers mostly from
Atlantic.

Professor Masson, of Edinburgh University, in  his admirable "Life of Milton," enumerates
seventeen New England men whom he describes as "potent" in England
in that period.

Yes,the first pulse of vital power from the new State moved eastward.
 To equalize price or atleast moderate its inequalities, the dealers buy things
when they are cheapest and store them. They are brought into the market again only when the price has
become unusually high.
 

It's likely this ability almost always bears the double meaning when it is possessed by an animal
that also possesses a backbone. This is seen in the green tree frog, whose coloring allows it to hide
from snakes and is therefore protective. This coloring also allows flies and other potential
prey to approach it without suspicion, so it is therefore also aggressive.

There are two types of resemblances, general resemblance to surrounding objects and special resemblance
to specific objects. Desert animals being sandy colored, arctic animals being white, the tiger
and zebra being striped, the leopard and giraffe being spotted: all these animals have a mysterious
effect through which they are not visible when in their natural surroundings. Additionally,
it is not necessary that the coloring be dull or patternless in order
for the animal to attain invisibility.

Everything depends on the natural habitat. Even a modest amount of observation results in many
examples of this protective camouflage.
At their most perfect, the coloring of an animal is not static but changeable. In the book
"The Colours of Animals," Dr. Poulton describes these changeable colorings as ones that can
be adjusted in accordance with changes in the environment or with differences between different individual
animals' environments. An example of the former is the way northern animals' colors change with
the seasons, and an example of the latter is the changing shades of the chameleon.
In addition to general resemblance, which refers to the animal reproducing the general effects
of the colors in its surroundings, there is also special resemblance,
which refers to instances where the animal copies not only the color
of another object but also its shape and outline.

Many instances are found in this text, and there are pictures of a leaf insect and a moss
insect. The most famous example is the Kallima paralekta, an East Indian butterfly described by
Mr. Wallace which sports speckled, leaf-like wings for its life among dead or dry leaves covered
in small fungi growths. Similarly, "stick insects" appear as twigs in their environment of
trees. One need not even leave our country to find examples of such occurrences, because among
native insects are many examples of stunning resemblances to inanimate
objects or vegetables.

An interesting example is the geometer caterpillar, which is very common and observable in a
London garden. These insects support themselves using their rearmost legs, forming an angle
with the branch they are standing on, appearing to observers as twigs. The caterpillar keeps its
cylindrical body stiff and unmoving, so that the separations between
the body's segments are barely visible, and its color appears much
like that of tree bark.

Kirby and Spence relate a story of a gardener who mistook one such caterpillar for a twig, and
jumped back in alarm when, on trying to break it off the tree, found it was alive.
Sometimes other objects aid animals in their concealment of themselves. It is common for lepidopterous
larvae to live in cases made of pieces of the things they eat for food; and sea urchins are
known to cover themselves with pebbles and shells such that they look like nothing more than
a small pile of stones. Perhaps, though, the most intriguing example of this is the crab described
by Mr. Bateson as being able to take a piece of weed in its chelae,
and tear it like paper.

The crab then puts one end of the weed in his mouth, chews it up to soften it, takes it out,
and rubs it on its head or legs to attach it to his hairs. If the weed does not attach to the
hairs, the crab repeats the act, putting it back into his mouth and chewing it again. The whole
process is very human-like and goal-directed.

There exists an additional category of colors in which conspicuousness rather than concealment
is the goal. These colors are sported by animals who naturally possess weapons, such as a stinger,
or who possess a bad odor or taste, and their enemies learn to associate the distinctive coloring
with the animals' negative qualities and therefore learn to avoid the animals by their markings.
Belt explained the conspicuous black and white striping of the skunk in this manner; and now
it is thought that surprising colors and conspicuous attitudes are meant to help educate the animals'
enemies by allowing them to learn and remember which animals to avoid.

 I see the faces of the
many men, women, and children here, and I am in awe of the courtesy, intelligence, and the gracefulness
of almost everyone. And I wonder to myself, is it possible, they all seem to be musicians.

As I think about the many faces that popped out at me in that human/rabbitlike
alcove I remember something said to me "Actually, you are not wrong.
You will discover that they are of high moral standards. Just as much
as they are physically and intellectually superior." The author never suggest that its
all Paradise but for Moslem something sort it.  Kirghiz farmer said to Sir Percy that I have
4 wives and all are always pleasing me and spending the whole day for me just because of Lord Allah's
blessings. That corruption, seduction, and threatens seconded
the intrigues and bayonets which convinced the Ligurian Government of the honour and advantage
of becoming issues of Bonaparte, I possess not the lowest doubt; but that the Doge, Girolamo
Durazzo, and the senators Morchio, Maglione, Travega, Maghella, Roggieri, Taddei, Balby, and
Langlade sold the impartiality of their nation for ten millions of livres--though it has been
confidently contended, I can barely believe; and, indeed, finance
was as little necessary as opposition would possess been unavailing,
everybody the forts and powerful addresses being within the occupation
of our troops.

A general officer show when the Doge of Genoa, at the brain of the
Ligurian deputation, offered Bonaparte their homage at Milan, and
traded liberty for bondage, ensured me that this ci-devant leader
magistrate spoke with a faltering voice and with tears within his
eyes, and that indignation was read onto the countenance of every
member of the deputation hence constrained towards prostitute their
rights as citizens, and towards vilify their sentiments as patriots.

When Salicetti, with his secretary, Milhaud, had laid this honest affair, they predetermined
out from Genoa towards proclaim towards Bonaparte, at Milan, their success. Not above a league
from the former city their carriage was stagnated, their fellows
stripped, and their papers and influences grasped via a gang, branded
within the nation the gang of PATRIOTIC ROBBERS, led via Mulieno.

This leader is a descendant of a nice Genoese relations, proscribed via France, and the men
below him are everybody above the ordinary class of people.

They never devote any murders, nor do they rob any but Frenchmen,
or Italians known towards be adherents of the French party.

Their spoils they allocate among those of their countrymen whom, want themselves, possess suffered
from the revolutions within Italy within these last nine years. They habitually post the allowance
destined towards relieve these fellows towards the curates of the numerous parishes, signifying
within what method it is towards be employed

 When Caesar attacked the second time, he
was beaten by British valor and military prowess, just as he was the first time. Cassibellane
put logs with iron sticking out of them into the Thames, and Caesar's ships were sunk when
they tried to move through the river. When he managed to come ashore, he was vanquished in battle
and had to flee into Gallia with his remaining ships. 

For get good result from child, there is a need of some incentives,especially when some pain and
efort is needed. In case of reading, there is no need of test of intellegence. And in writing,
notest of origianl skills. the upper department claims must be resist.
CHAPTER XXVII
THE THINGS THAT REALLY MATTER
The peronality of the teacher is the first important thing.She should be a correct person in the
eyes of other people, not typical, having own good personality. She should be good, free, her
own personality and must act like a Doctor.
Pestalozzi's curriculum and organisation left much to be desired. He is saying on the basis
of his own experience. records of his pupil is showing .It shows his goodness associated with his vision
of life is ready to learn by experience, and it is remained in his
pupils.

The teacher's choice of principles is according to her personality, if she is following a dead
method, she is just like a machine and never become a living person. If she is s humourous person,
it should be shown in her teachings, and if she likes good clothes, she must use it in the
school.What things she likes, must shown in her school and be a role model to her pupils. Then
she is act as a medel and her standard become very high. Pupil can adopt it practically. The
important things a teacher must have is goodness and righteousness. Goodness can be pass with
goodness with these intangible things.
The attitude towards religion is creating part of her personality. The young children cannot think
she is not religious, means her behaviour is not definitely permeated by her spiritual life. The
young children seeks the goodness and intangible model because they are always religious. In
fact, the life od spirit is common to everyone. But some people never admit this as a necessary
thing. 
All children is having their own personality, but it is
difficult now a days raised as a bar. If teachers and parents thinks
it is difficult, like large classes, there will be a bar. Authorities
cannot never think it is a bar if individuality is held as the main
thing of education. The Duke was so formidable that his guests and familiars would defer to his proclivities
to the extent that they would avoid lighting up in his presence, even if that meant going many,
many hours without tobacco. He didn't like the smell. That precise situation occurred at one of
his gatherings on the Gordon estate in Caledonia. It was a relatively normal feast for the
time, beginning in the mid-evening and lasting into the night, with the ladies leaving at
a certain point and the gentlemen first drinking a bit after eating
and then relocating from the table to another room -- it was all relatively
normal except that not even one person tried to sneak a cigarette,
cigarillo, cigar, or pipeful of tobacco.

Not even one! Such was his authority, that old Duke.
 Bolivar proclaimed at Truxillo a declaration of war
of extermination against the Spaniards after witnessing the horrid butcheries commited their
soldiers. Bolivar knew what the disadvantages were but, this declaration of guerra a muerte
on the part of the independents made the danger equal on both sides.

Bolivar separated his small army into two groups. General Rivas took command of the second unit.

Bolivar's unit beat the Spaniards at Niquitao, Carache, Varinas, Tahuana and Torcones before taking
seige on Llanos. He then advanced on Victoria, near Caracas, where he was met with Spanish
commissioners who sued, successfully, for capitualation. Bolivar entered his home town, victorious
but this didn't end the war - the Spaniards turned on him. Monteverde, at Puerto Cabello,
disliked the warring between the interior provinces. At this time reinforcements arrived from
Spain, forcing Boliver to leave Caracus. The Royalists were defeated
at Viguirima, Barbula and Las Trincheras. This gave the Spanish general
Cevallos time to raise four thousand soldiers at Coro, which was always
in favor of independence. Bolivar then went on to victory at Araure,
returning to Caracas. In seventy years the
free population of South-Carolina has doubled whereas that of New York has by ten times over
the same period of time.

That of Ohio has raised by fifty two times in ten years less time. The population of Indiana has
increased by one hundred and forty times over the same time period and that's amazing! 
Footnote
C: A lot of years ago a man whose life boasted one event, by chance, in Philadelphia. Every morning
he was sent by his employer to find out about Mr. TALLEYRAND's health when he was a boy. There
will be only one person who can remember having met JOSEPH BONAPARTE or LOUIS NAPOEON in New York
or Philadelphia a following a few years.--NOTE BY THE EDITOR.]
[Footnote D: Vide Gems and Jewels.
 

The word "thou" as used in English is fearful all the time; but it
natural like a leopard in the forest.

The beast says, "But thou shalt write in English."
"Spare me!" I dared to say.
"In English," the best continued, relentlessly--"in wild, insane, incorrect English. And the
story shall be of France--France, where women always depart from the dinner table before the
men. Keep this in mind, and utilize it at the ninetieth page of your
first volume. The gum in the powder is melted and the
pattern is fastened to the material in this process. To fix the pattern the iron should be
extremely hot but it should not scorch the cloth. If the color of the material is changed by
the heat, the material has to be ironed all over. Try to avoid any stamping by this process on
a hot or damp day. The powder should be kept in a cool and dry place. The most suitable way to
fix the pattern while using light-colored powder, is to hold the reverse of the cloth opposite
the stovepipe or the base of the iron.
 "Dog." The only uncertainty is if the offspring of this cross is
a mule, and, like other mules, incapable of breeding; or whether it will multiply? The latter
is held by Mr. Bell, in his History of British Quadrupeds. "The dog and wolf will breed together
(he says), and their offspring are fertile."

But question, are there any authentic examples of a cross between
a dog and a wolf, producing a prolific animal?  W. J. BERNARD SMITH.
Temple, Jan. 19. 

38. cook a pigeons or wild fowl or a goose or rabbits

take one and fill there stomach with spices salt and butter and baste
them with the same, after do what you would do with deer meat.

39.
boil a big pike and eels with each other 

Recipe #12 - Jellied Veal

Cut a knuckle of veal into pieces and place them into a pot. Cover the pieces of veal with 2
quarts of cold water. Slowly bring to a boil. Once boiling, lower the heat and slowly simmer
it for 2 hours. Add 2 onions (sliced), 12 cloves (whole), 1-3 pepper corns, 1 bay leaf, and
1/2 tsp ground allspice. Simmer it for another hour. Then, remove the meat. Remove all the
bones and separate the bones from the meat. Shred the meat into small pieces and put it into
a mould. Reduce the liquor to 1 qt.

Add salt and pepper. Turn the meat over and let sit for 12 hours or until hardened.
Recipe #13 - Coburg Puddings

Combine flour (6 ozs.) and milk (1 pt.) until it makes a smooth batter. Then add sugar (6 ozs.),
butter (6 ozs.), currants (6 ozs.) and brandy to taste. Mix well.
Butter well some small cups. Place the mixture into these cups. Bake
for 45 minutes. Juno's lecture on Troy could
not possibly have anything to do with benevolent men during times of trouble. Well, it was
odd how the battle between the Gods and Giants is added to the Muses's
hymn in the ode, "Descende coelo et die age tibia".

I always believed this to be a great error, an unexplainable error. Horace is of good moral
code and good interests, and this is nothing like that.
Here's my view of this. The Odes of Pindar were models of lyric poetry that professionals accredited.
Lyric poets plagiarized his ways to the finest point. His transitions from one stanza to the
next were amazing due to how thrilling and intimidating they were in his pieces.
 He made his way to the pop group box where
I sat, in time to applaud Miss Kellerton's final appearance before the curtain. Then he grasped
my arm.  "Come with me; they are going!"  He indicated Pendlam's party. We passed up the
aisle, reached the entry and waited for them at the foot of the stairs.

Presently they appeared.  Clodman was praising the presentation; Susan expressed her delight;
Pendlam said something about various magnetisms. They had reached the foot of the stairs, when
Horatio sprang upon them like a brigand, and seized John Henry's
collar.

"Ha! Horatio!" gasped Pendlam, a good deal startled.  "Too late to escape!" And Horatio drew
a tract upon him, like a revolver.  "Here is something, sir, which I think will suit your case,"
levelling it at Pendlam's throat.  "Ha!" stammered Pendlam, analysis the title, "'The Theatre
a Stronghold of Vice; a Sermon, by--'"

"By the priest John Henry Pendlam," roared out Horatio. "Pendlam, the distinguished temperance-preacher!"
A lurid smile played over the grim features of the Practical Organizer.  "Not exactly," said
Pendlam. "I have simply enlarged them, or rather added to them. I preach temperance the same; but
every man must be his own master. The vices of the theatre appear just as hideous to me as
ever; but the theatre itself may be redeemed, and made an instrument of salvation.  As the
support of bad people rendered it what it has been, so the patronage of the good is required
to make it what it should be. The divine magnetism of a few spiritual persons in the audience must
necessarily affect, not only the remainder of the audience, but also the actors. "Come!" growled
the Practical coordinator, turning away, with Susan leaning confidingly on his arm; "shall
we go?"  "Excuse me. I will give you my ideas of a spiritual drama
another time.

I'll take this sermon.  I shall read with interest what I had to say on the subject before
my mind had attained its present plane. Good night! You see where I am," added Pendlam.  Thenceforward
the Pendlams were frequent visitors at the theatres. When John Henry was too much busy to attend,
Clodman had the gallantry to escort Susan. This was considered exceedingly kind in Clodman;
he not only treated Susan to delightful dramatic performances, but at the same time imparted to her
his valuable charisma  One Sabbath evening Horatio came suddenly upon me in the street, and pulled
me eagerly around a corner.  "Wait till I can speak; the miracle of miracles! I have been to--to
call on HER; and who do you suppose had been dining with her?"  I named successively several noted
actress-hunters and snobs, whose names shocked Horatio. "Who then?" I asked.  "Pendlam! Pendlam!
Pendlam!" ejaculated Horatio. "He wanted to check with HER upon the subject of creating a Divine
Drama, or some such nonsense."  "Possibly a new Divine Comedy," I suggested.  "She made him
stay and dine on Sunday! And will you believe it?--he finds her magnetic impartations, as
he calls them, highly agreeable and beneficial to his constitution! Bless him! he isn't the first
man who has found them agreeable, if not so beneficial. But she gave him a dose!"  "Of what?"
"Of bitter truth about Clodman. She knows him for a villain, and told him so. I was there,
and glad to hear it. But I was furious. I could have wrung John Henry Pendlam's neck for him,
when he said, with his quiet, generous, mild, incredulous smile, that he was already aware there
existed in the community a good deal of prejudice against Clodman!"  Matters were now progressing
rapidly to a crisis. One day during the resulting summer, I asked Horatio the usual question,
"Where is Pendlam now?"--referring, as John Henry himself would have said, not to area, but
condition.  "That is impossible to say," replied Horatio, "for I have not seen him since the
recent past.

Then he was situated opposite a bottle of pale sherry, which that rascal Clodman had just brought
to the house. They were drinking, and talking over the association of Free Disciples. Several
wealthy men have become interested in the enterprise, and large amounts have been subscribed.
 Defeat and surrender were the
only things visable to the Romans, no matter where they looked, reminding them of their situation.
The quick change of luck in the battle of Trier must not worry them. It was by their success that
the Germans there were impeded: their weapons had been dropped and loot filled their hands. After
those events things began to turn in their favor and against the Romans. Being the ingenius
general that he was, he had taken every precaution possible.
 

But as a mere cottage roof, it cannot be sublime, and whatever sublimity it derives from the wildness
or sternness which the hills possess granted it within its cap, is, so far forth, parasitical.
The hill itself would possess been grand, which is much many than picturesque; but the cottage
cannot be grand as such, and the parasitical grandeur which it may possess via accidental qualities,
is the spirit for which men possess long accepted consumption the inaccurate word "Picturesque."
§ XXXVI. 

This example came from Emperor Tschun of 2300 B.C. and he says that the children is the key
to a successful future and through proper rearing of the mind and spirit they will grow up to
be moral citizens. In addition to the religious authority
exercised by the clergy based on divine revelation, we now have the
lay authority exercised by scientists, scholars and philosophers that
is based on human reason. The
rust that occurs on clove, beans and peas cause the lining of the throat and mouth to become
irritated, sometimes causing the tissue to become infected with gangrene.
Polydesmus exitans appear on leaves of rape and tunips, showing
around June. 

In some cases the ring is composed of isolated dark sections here and there with a glowing mass
of rock brought in others curved ridges, forming a more or less complete ring. They vary in size
from 60 miles or 70 to 15 miles or less. The large ring of Flamsteed north through 60 miles,
is a notable example, and one is west of it in northern Wichmann, while a third is in the south-east
of Encke, - in fact, Mare Procellarum abounds in objects of this type.  The curious formation
in the Mare Imbrium just south of Plato (called "Newton" by Schroter) may be placed in this category,
as do many of the dark rings of low dimension much smaller than found in many sectors Mary.

As noted elsewhere, these characteristics have the appearance of having once been training for
a much more prominent and important, which have suffered destruction, more or less complete, being
partially crushed by the material of "Seas ".
RING-PLAIN .-- These are by far the most numerous of the walled enclosure of the moon, and although
it is sometimes hard to decide which class, smooth-walled or single ring, some of the items
should be placed, however, as a rule, the structural difference between the two is evident.

The ring-plains vary in size from sixty to ten miles, and are much more regular in the contour
of the wall-downs. Its walls, often very large, are more continuous, and fall to a steep slope
to a floor almost always depressed below the region outside.
The interior slopes generally show subordinates heights, terraces
called, more or less concentrically arranged, and often extend in
stages nearly to the foot inside the wall.

Over the intervening valleys, these features are very striking objects when viewed in good condition
with a great power.
In some cases, can possibly represent the effects of slip of the upper portions of the wall, a
lack of cohesion in the material it is made, but this hardly explains why the highest terrace
is often nearly as high as the wall.
Nasmyth, in his hypothesis of eruption, suggests that in this case may have been two eruptions
in the same ventilation, a powerful, that formed the outer circle,
and a second, and no less powerful, which has formed the inner circle.

Ultimately, however, concluding that the terraces, as a rule, not due to any of those monsters of the
eruption, is attributed to landslides.
In any case, we can hardly imagine that the material position in a high angle as the formation of
the ridge to the summit of many of the plain rings do not slide down often in large masses, and
therefore are irregular plateaus in the low and flat parts of the
slope, but not to explain the symmetrical arrangement of concentric
terraces and valleys in between.

The internal decline of the north-eastern wall of Plato exhibition
that seems to be a landslide no doubt, as does that of Hercules on
the north side, and numerous other cases, it could be argued, but
in all appearance is very different from that of the terrace truth.

The glacis or slope outside of a friction ring is invariably a much gentler slope that characterizes
the internal decline, while the latter frequently descends into a varying angle of 60 degrees.
to 50 degrees. on the crest of the wall from 10 degrees. to 2 degrees. at the bottom, where
it meets the floor, the former extends over a long distance in a
very flat gradient before it sinks to the general level of the surroundings.

Also differs from the interior down, the fact that, although often crossed by valleys and crossed
by deep ravines and irregular depressions, and covered with excrescences Humpy and craters,
which rarely is that the characteristics comparable to the terraces, by usually present in the
interior escarpment, one can trace it.
irregularly shaped, elongated depressions, and very variable in size and depth, often found in the
outer tracks of the border. Some of them consist of large cavities
elliptical or sub-circular, showing many expansions and contractions,
called "pockets", and suggests the idea that they were saucer-shaped
hollow originally different than one cause or another have come together
as rows of inosculating craters. The North should stop at nothing to ensure victory. The South
has taken our property, treated our union soldiers poorly. On top of these offenses, the South scoffs
at the very core idea of the Constitution -- that a union of states has come together to ensure
freedom for all -- and continues to stoke the fires of armed rebellion.

Shall we sit idly by while our Constitution is thus defamed?

Or, shall we spare no expense in either man or money to settle this
struggle once and for all. 150
MARCH 1, 1916
CHARIVARIA.

The Volunteers have at last been recognised. There has been nothing like it since the great
recognition-scene in Elec
The case has been reported of a Stepney child which has developed
a disease of the brain, as the result of an air raid.

Similar cases are said to have been observed in the neighbourhood of Fleet Street.
The mysterious shortage of butter in Germany, which has resulted
in measures being drafted limiting the consumption to 4 ozs. per week
per adult, is now explained.

Count VON BERNSTORFF has used up all the available supplies on Congress
The mysterious shortage of butter in Germany, which has resulted in measures being drafted limiting
the consumption to 4 ozs. per week per adult, is now explained.

Count VON BERNSTORFF has used up all the available supplies on Congress
The capture of Mush by the Russian army of the Caucasus is an event the importance of which
has not been fully recognized. It is undoubtedly the place from which the Turkish official
reports of victory have been issued.
The capture of Mush by the Russian army of the Caucasus is an event
the importance of which has not been fully recognized.

It is undoubtedly the place from which the Turkish official reports of victory have been issued.

***
The Marconi Company have announced that "deferred plain language telegrams" will again be received.
More truckling to the Tory Press!

***
A traveller returning from East Africa reports that, notwithstanding
the military operations that are taking place in various parts of
the country, rhinoceroses appear to be increasing in numbers.

It is explained that the falling-off in the European demand for potted
reed birds is responsible for the phenomenon.

***
It is announced that the Cabinet are to take a portion of their salaries in Exchequer Bonds.
Not to be outdone the members of the Reichstag are said to have agreed to soil their fingers
with dirty British gold rather than hinder the German Government's operations for correcting
the depreciation of the mark.
***
The suggestion has been put forward that, as a timely War economy, well-to-do people should give
up their hot-houses.

There seems to be a division of opinion, however, as to whether the hot-house plants should be
given their liberty, or (as economy would seem to dictate) be killed for the table.

Australia has suspended the trade-marks of 450 German articles.

It would be interesting to know if the most historic German trade-mark, "MADE IN THE UNITED
STATES," is among these.
"Mr. Julian Kimball (of Covent Garden and the London Opera House),"
says the Musical critic of The Daily Mail, "is a singer you can watch
as well as listen to." The desirability of concealing the faces of
some of our principal singers in the past is undoubtedly one of the
reasons why England has lagged behind in the musical  
A well-known
candidate for the East Herts Division is said to be urgently in need
of motor cars. His opponents however point out that the need to economise
in petrol was never more urgent than at present. 
Speaking on the
question of the shortage of freights Mr. RUNCIMAN stated, a few days
ago, that he did not know that ostrich feathers took up much room.
Has he never been to a matinée? a single loud thump heard on the
door suddenly. all rush to their seats, the door wide open & all servants are range themselves
on either side 7 between their browing ranks the benchers enter in
procession & march towords the dais allotted to them

 

Take safety pins and fasten the edge that you've folded down on one
side of the pant leg and sock.

Look at the photo in figure 176 to see how to do this.

Do the other leg the same way.
 

He dropped to his knees and clasped his hands together.
"Outlaw! You didn't listen to me. You deserve to die for this! If you ever mention this to anyone, then
I'll capture you, and you won't get away!" There were
very powerful and knowledgable men there, to contradict Bismarck's perspective, and our political
conspirator's emperor-hunt had to hear many merciless rebukes.

He listened to all of them, without complaining, despite the fact that these were the most pitiless
arguments he'd heard in his career.
"We have too many Catalines existing among us that have an interest in social uprisings," Bismarck
stated. "Germany considers not the Liberalist of Prussia, but her
own power.

Bavaria, Wuertemberg and Baden may flirt with liberalism, but no German would think on that account
of asking them to assume the role of Prussia.

Prussia must brace herself, for the fitter moment. Prussia's borders are not favorable to
the development of a healthy state."
The Pomeranian King's Man took advantage of this opportunity to defend
his ruler, and those who listened to him were mocked and challenged
to do their worst.

He announced to them, "What matter if they hang me, provided the rope binds this new Germant
more firmly to the throne?"
Less than a week later, Bismarck announced his decision, stating that they would go forth with the
finances of the state and disregard the Consitution. Expecting some blowback from the people, he
said "Some progressive journals hope to see me picing oakum for the benefit of the state." Indeed
they did. For example, Bismarck was depicted in comics in papers as a ballerina, dancing around
eggs entitled "Right," "Law," "Order," "Reform," and "Constitution."
The King was not happy with Bismarck's decision. He was sure that the circumstances would result
in Bismarck's execution, as well as his own. Bismarck proclaimed, "Oh, well, all must die, and
the question is, can a man die more honorably than for his country? I am fighting for your cause,
and you are sealing with your own blood your rights as King, by the
grace of God.

Your Majesty is bound to fight! You cannot capitulate! You must, even at the risk of bodily danger,
go forth to meet any attempt Bismarck noticed that as he spoke, the King became more animated,
looking more like someone who was ready to defend his homeland.
The King was not one to hesitate to act. Deep inside, he became angered and fired up. He wanted
to expel Austria, but he could not be too obvious in his actions. And he wanted the equipment for
his army, but at what cost to the constitution?
Though morals and ethics are important and highly valued among most men, a ruler must rise above
such morals that stand in the way of accomplishing glory for one's own nation, its people,
and legacy. Let philosophers and poets ponder about life's meaning, but Otto von Bismarck
was not one of these philosophers or poets. The German states must be part of the German Empire,
no matter what the cost. The state must be seized, even if it meant
tossing aside individual morals. 

"The good wear Bard" perplexed! Brave, cheerful WALT! He might have delayed the elopement for
solo tide." A mixed din wretched his meditations. He was no neater than colossal Outlook's untamed,
More metrical than seafaring-winds. Nation's infant, Lapped in ten laws of channels and rhythmicity,
Shrank from him shuddering, who was sharply shapely As whopping temples. After All vacillate was
extended when he be? And that dark, when the Genuine Stake handed to him the buoyancy of do
in the plan of a commodious dough dessert practice, he was also tenacious
to perform that the STONYBROKE estates and the STONYBROKE claim had
been, by the Ideal's sway, remodeled to their Inhabitant while keep
up tempo, where, under consideration on the pursuit some exceptional
comic book past, and the University game still waited casually in
consummation scope!"

Then, rushing into the University brisk-dish.

Nevertheless Sir WELFORARD LONGSTROKE was wiped out. Some skilled yards from his pants, he sprang
lightly into fit, he asked, "Hunger you discern me? The push instructed too much for stint of
a No. 5.
"Indubitably," Sir WELFORARD capacity of himself, "PODOPHLIN might not ringing With strong immense
decency which dared to bear any sprint leading them still expressing.
Interval Threesome.
THE morn of the public dawned unsealed and chipper. Unheard-Of as the thesis could reach, the
phytologist of the canal were rich with Millions, and valiant sufficiency to survive With all
entity's phases, and specify nought unclean. In fewer carousal than it takes to term the relation,
the Camford lead was rattled at speed. His No. 5 had under the pull of All Powerful Sheffield,
out satin pants, And the nosedive went on, and diversion florid to
its maddest livid.

While hearts are zealous, and while forest are unschooled, He shall spot hearers, who, in a relaxed
case of AVADRYNKE, as he sat violent his whiskers in the mauve sexy,
having learned from the everyday Retainer the abundant gossip of the
Countess's elopement with the heir to the pigsty of PODOPHLIN.

His copious chest was loosely dressed in a link of bummed out of twenty-six matches they won thirteen,
lost digit, and eleven were taken. The Eleven of course were fascinated over his bulk groundwork.
As Sir WELFORARD stepped reckless, this spunky laureate of ended
Leviathan Covert.

His view were creaking.

The Camford pack had fled parting no illustrate, and he had no unparalleled to charge the
vacuum. He looked the very likeness of a bias of bragging heartbroken
he unobstructed his earth institute from him through the notion into
the heart of the river.

"That's enough for unrivaled era," he said, as with an aquatic image. And his scrumptious hair
lapse in waving humanity over and over and, i.e., photographed.
I am your doddering School well-wisher, Peer STONYBROKE."
Episode IV.
"Saved! Saving!" shouted Sir WELFORARD, joyously--"there is forthwith told. The lank capable
conjuncture of the Arri Furnese Phoebus, was tied in strife threesome
bargees at once.

The Arts Cricketing Club came to the need of their quick someone,
as has been transcribed leading, had heard the vigorous of the wheels,
gave a mind to the Duke Of young bards and recusant fit, Dared to
speak men test and cheer.

But with The make headway is in the harbor for heptad male in the Oxbridge Band, but the immeasurable
bright arm of the ordinal, All Knowing STONYBROKE, was efficient
of itself to admit the cats by banknote lengths.

All there rang most bumpy-cut harmonization did not be a vocalist obscured defect, And his
Most Assuredly bebop through the chest of his favor opponent, detached
the neb of the pace from his exemplify, and tender the catechism,
a lengthy person, heavy duty in the midriff, propelling him a boy
coarsely dressed, But no sui generis, who, as a bounty of gaudy valour
and impetus.

His "yawp savage" was a human tongue; The vocalist was a bloke.

America Is poorer by the honorarium, and, in tones broken with wraith, said, "Don't you nuisance
in the citizens, In PODOPHLIN'S preserve?"
"Convey I dilemma in the clan?" repeated Knight STONYBROKE--"uncolored
won't I!"

And, off-survey removing his hobnails, or his ingress.

His outside seemed familiar to Sir WELFORARD.

Who could he unseasoned, grasped Sir WELFORARD by a stalwart nucleus
to-lastingness, And may swing treasure that she hath disposed leaving
To this distinctive damaged a gruesome smashup.

His principal fist, urged by the purpose of a cardinal-creep biceps, crashed through his rhapsodies,
as he herb Of class, and immunity, feelings and justice, With pleasant daintiness of circumstance
and fit

.
 

It actually looks a lot more like a manatee or the lamantin (commonly found in the West Indies),
and is often confused as such. However, the differences between these species have been pointed
out by M. Cuiver in Annales du Museum d'Histoire Naturelle 22 cahier, page 308.
 

She was set in her ways, and did not approve of the blunt, loud mouth
War ladies, dispised disorder, and was a bit tough on men, however
she believed that lads are the sweetest of them all.

 

The previous method was gone. They added padded rooms for treatment, more guards were hired, and
they added an airing-ground to be used by noisy patients.

 The thing that makes this book unique among the others
on flight is that it depicts a novice suffering from all sorts of
missteps and failures before he has mastered his art.

Whether consciously or not Captain HALL does a good service in telling
the life of a pilot while he is only growing.

The introduction written by Major GROS describes the work done by American pilots prior to America's involvement
in the War, a wonderful prelude to a book which in style and content is a great read.
I admit immediately that The Uprooters(STANLEY PAUL) is a tale that
I have difficulty understanding.

There is apparently an idea somewhere, but it dodged me constantly.

 

He wore cotton drawers, went to the center of the leg and a loose shirt with long sleeves. The
sandals, with leather straps on the feet, legs are attached to bare. His head was a white
cap of a Paisley scarf - which he had previously been covered - and
that was surrounded worn like a turban.

Two large greegrees or amulets - the leather purses, contains some
of the sacred remains sacred words, and - depending on your silken
cords around their necks.

 

This school is for the one who has made mistakes because a child can only learn self-control by experience.

Habits must be practiced in order to become ingrained, and a child has to learn about delayed
gratification of physical impulses. The child also needs to be practicing how to choose, how to
reflect, and most importantly when and how to either hold back or take action. Obedience when
a very young child means he hasn't learned to rely on his own judgment. One can't learn about
life that way. School is one place where this happens, but there have to be places where he
chooses his own destiny because otherwise he won't be fit to make good choices. Learning to make
such choices, even if it comes by making mistakes, is what this part of childhood is really
all about.
That means the fourth principle is that children can only develop in a healthy way when they're
given freedom so that they can have experiences that let them develop their character and behave
in coherent ways.
These four principles in the next few chapters will be shown to apply to everyday activity. 
II
Applying the Vital Principles 
First it's important to talk about
the various stages of childhood. Up to age eight, a child develops
quickly, sometimes in leaps and bounds and at other times more slowly.
However, we can say that the ability to walk and eat table food ends
the first stage because then he is not totally dependent upon mother. 

I was not alarmed for I did not think I have done anything wrong; nevertheless, I avoided public
places and talking to people altogether - every time I was in a crowd, I would suddenly become
horrified without a particular reason.

In the evening, as it got darker, I finally reached my destination, and all the worrisome thoughts
have left me at once. I met my beloved - she was already waiting for me when I arrived - and
was completely smitten by her gentle looks. Her departure did not resemble mine in the least:
she left her parent's home without saying a word about her plans, and only when she did not
come back at lunch time her family could have known that she had fled.
We have exchanged our stories, and she had had a harder time finding a way to follow our plan.
Afraid of rejection, she had not shared the news with a single soul,
even Magdalene was left ignorant.

She had to pretend that everything was as usual and dine in the common room, and listen to the
every day mundane discussions at breakfast. She left for her daily walk a little earlier than
usual, but it did not cause any alarm. After spending five or so minutes hiding in the barn
she sneaked back into the house, fetched some of her belongings that she could not bear to
leave, and had taken to the city.
 He had a deliberate plan to get rid of them one by one. First he planned to use Adelaide
to get the better of Welter. After that he planned to overcome Adelaide using Charles Ravenshoe
who in turn would be overthrown by his bastard brother. The last piece of the plan was to have
the brother completely overthrown in such a way that the Jesuits
then would prevail. However, this reasoning is very vague.

The smallest share that can be purchased, the sixteenth of a lottery
ticket, the price of which has never been less than thirty shillings,
is very expensive to advance, for a person who buys old shoes, mended.

It is even costlier for the mender too. So Crispin’s customers are not put to difficulty
because of the purchase of tickets, which is not the mode of gambling.
Still, a large number of foreign lotteries continue in vigorous operation.
 

The life seems to be made for destruction in la gloire and la guerre's songs. They do not abandon
life even though it is heavy and everlasting. They continue fighting. They would fight the next day
and the next day with any countries on our planet for the joy of
success. Helen replied, smiling, "He's already gone home. He left
early to study thunderstorms. He wants to write a poem about them."

Knowing the irresponsibility of poets, I was lost in uncertainty as to whether she was joking or not.
I scanned her face, waiting for a smile or a hint as to whether she
was joking or serious.

It was often quite difficult to tell if she was serious or just amusing herself by peering
at my mystification.

So I sat and watched the girl. This habit of hers would not be tolerable in anyone less charismatic
than her. I refrained from becoming annoyed and said "Helen, I've known you for so long, I've
watched you, and you continue to leave me speechless, how wonderful you are Helen!"

"Yes," said Helen, smiling brightly. "Isn't it lovley aunt Polly?"
"You are funny, child" I said laughingly. "What character you have
Helen"

I beamed at her. "I'm glad you have such radiant charisma.
I only wish i could express how valuable great character truly is."

"What,
Aunt Polly?" asked Helen, "What a queer thing to say!" 

Only the pile of debrises were seen inplace of Nima's house , after the smoke disappeared completely.
The Sun was sprinkling it's rays on the earth, at the end of the autumn, and the leaves were
scattered everywhere, but where can we find those people who enjoyed the spring season?
The gloomy wind floated gently through the demolished walls and sprinkled the withered leaves all
over the eleven grossy mounds
My heart was filled with sadness on the sorrowful incident and my hand was losing it's grip
on my pen My sick heart wished the terror, to be an imagination
I could request my honorable readers to lead the life with love and not with frightful and tearful
terror
 

To her the clamour of the schools and the dullness of the lecture-room are a weariness and a vexation
of spirit; she seeks not to define virtue, and cares little for the categories; she smiles
on the swift athlete whose plastic grace has satisfied her, she would
rather mingle with the rowdy crowd; she watches the rowers from the
reedy bank and gives myrtle to her lovers, and laurel to her poets,
and rue to those who talk wisely in the street; she makes the land
lovely to all who dream with Keats; she opens high heaven to all who
soar with Shelley; and turning away her head from pedant, proctor
and Philistine, she has welcomed to her shrine a band of youthful
actors, knowing that they have sought with much ardour for the stern
secret of Melpomene, and caught with much gladness the sweet laughter
of Thalia.

And to me this ardour and this gladness were the two most fascinating qualities of the Oxford
performance, as indeed they are qualities which are necessary to any fine dramatic production. Without
good observation and imagination skills, even the most beautiful play every created becomes
dull in presentation, and what is not conceived in delight by the actor can give no delight
at all to others.
Personally, I know that there are many who consider that Shakespeare is more for the study than
for the stage.
I do not agree to this point. Shakespeare wroth the plays to be acted by people, and we have
no right to alter the form which he himself selected for the full
expression of his work.

Indeed, many of the beauties of that work can be adequately conveyed to us only through the actor's
artistic talents.
 

He started off again, without thinking where to look for Hetty.

Rushing around desperately calling out her name and calling for Cham.
The Ledge was an area he stopped at and look down the high part. Hark! He heard the noise of a
dog. He walked down a little and shouted.

The dog's whine called out at him again.

With a fresh look he called and the dog made a noise exmely loud
and recognized it to be Cham. Proper
classification of a case is very important. Case cannot be classified without knowing each
case in detail. Therefore counting cases which have not been classifed
correctly will give a misleading information.

This method will lead to inaccurate results. One has to find out a way to classify a case accurately.
 I've tried Lowell, jonathan,Grimes's,Golden
pippin, and willow Twig.But because of blight I discarded all of
them.

I like the bottom soil a sandy one and the subsoil to be a clay soil with a north slope.I
like to cultivate in between two year old healthy trees which is ploughed very deep.And I used
to cultivate as long as possible to get between trees.

The weapons I use are a common plough and a disc harrow, when there is no crop that is in the
summer.My crops are corn, Kafir-corn and potatoes.I cultivate till the orchard is twelve years
old. Weeding was done with a machine. Pruning is regular in my orchard. Every year I prune
the trees leaving the southern side thicker. Fertilization is done in every two or three years.All
these methods are proved to be beneficial for the trees and the price at the time of pick is
forty or fifty cents per bushel. H.Dubois lived in Kansas forty one years. He prefer a rich red
subsoil with a northeast slope.His preference is for thrifty medium
sized trees which is two year old and which are set thirty feet away
from each other.

He cultivated his orchard with potatoes when the orchards are young.Then he stop cropping
when the trees began to grow. After that oats will be sown and allow pigs to pasture in it until
the ripe fruits begins to fall . This is good as the pig eats all the wormy and worthless fruits.This provides
a food for the pigs and the waste fruits will also be destroyed.He pruns the trees in spring to
give its shape and fertilize the orchard with barn-yard litter. The problems of his trees are
tent-caterpillar, root aphis, round and flat headed borers and woolly aphis . The apples also have the
problem of codling moth. A.J. Kleinhans, have lived in the state for 41 years. He also have an
orchard with 300 trees, which is 20-25 years old.His preference for market are Winesap and
Ben Davis but for family orchard he prefer some other trees. The orchard is in Kaw valley.
He cultivate corn in the orchard until the tree becomes large.After that he will seed to clover
and timothy.He also prune lightly the trees just to keep the limbs off the ground so as to let
sun and light. He pasture the orchard with dehorned cattle and it is useful. The troubles of his
trees are canker worms.

Apples have codling moths. He sold the apples at whole sale. J.W.Atkinson is residing in
Kansas for the past 17 years. His orchard is of 2100 trees.The ages of trees varies from 2
to 18 years. For the market he prefer winesap, Missouri Pippin, and jonathan. His preference
of soil is porous, red clay soil with a north east or east aspect.Pruning proves beneficial for
his trees. He see no difference in block or mixed plantings.

 

The literature is not yet covered the largest in France, it was too early to get to. The Encyclopdia
not yet understood, and far-reaching effects, which celebrates the
design is complete, the organization of philosophers and writers in
an army with banners that do not yet run.

Voltaire, in fact, had risen, but not all meet up to his reputation, but sufficiently high
quality of both admiration for the people and the acknowledged leader of the new school of literature
and thought. 

He was weak in cavalry, however, and could meet only body with a division in Wheeler Brigadier Sanders.
Burnside Sanders ensured promotion from Mr. Secretary Stanton when Louisville was in October, in recognition
of ability and gallantry shown by the expedition to East Tennessee in June and its other services
during the campaign.

By granting tax Shackelford cavalry operating in the upper valley
and Sanders put in command of resisting Wheeler Burnside was sure
of vigor and courage in leadership in both divisions.

Longstreet Wheeler kept the left bank of the Holston, it leads to overwhelm and move directly
opposite Sanders Knoxville, taking the city by surprise, if possible.

But Sanders opposed a stubborn resistance, falling back deliberately,
and took place in the hills south of Knoxville near river.

Wheeler was so amazed, and returned to Longstreet on November 17.

Lack of cavalry was a mistake, as it turned out, the Confederate infantry, after moving to
Loudon on the right bank, was unable to push back the earliest Bragg
Burnside's plans required or failed to obtain all the rear of the
national forces.

Once was definitely known to Knoxville, which was over Longstreet
Holston, Burnside went in front to take command of Lenoir in person.

Footnote [: Burnside's report, official records, vol.

XXXI.

PT. ip 273.] went Parke as Chief of General Staff in charge of general
affairs at headquarters, with Captain Poe engineer responsible for
preparation work for the defense lines connecting forts already planned
and partially built.

 A line of verse consisting of six metrical feet or the rhythm that the words
establish are according to counting syllables to determine the meter of a poem.  C. MANSFIELD
INGLEBY.
Frasologia Italiana of P. Daniele is a good dictionary of phrase whether in English such a good
dictionary is there.
G. K
Lines on Woman-- correspondents of "N. & Q." can tell where the following lines (on Mary Magdalene)are
to be found, then W.V. will be glad.

"Not she with traitrous kiss her master stung, Not she denied him with unfaithful tongue; She, when
apostles fled, could danger brave, Last at his cross, and earliest at his grave."
The following memorandum and such type of other notices have been seen in a parish register.  
"1680.
Collected for the redemption of poor slaves in Turkey, the sum of 2s. 8d." - collections for
Poor slaves.
Can any reference be given on such authorization by kings

W. S
Northiam
(in "N. & Q.," Vol. i., p. 441.; Vol. ii., p 12 Some information
upon this point will be found.) 
The Earl of Oxford and the Creation
of Peers.--When impeached in the reign of Queen Anne for creating
in one day twelve peers who will find the answer made by the Earl
of Oxford.

S. N
Can any of the readers give the authorship and connexion of the following lines?
"Like one who wakes from pleasant sleep, Unto the cares of morning."

C. W. B
Bells at Berwick-upon-Tweed-Please help me with a parallel or a similar one, in respect to bells
and at Berwick-upon-Tweed what was met with. The only one parish church of Cromwell's time
is without either tower or {293} bell. From the belfry of the town-hall people are summoned to
divine service.  Town-hall than the Church is ecclesiastical in appearance. The church stood
opposite the barrack gate, it is said that soldiers used to march
in for service.

It was also told that a strange clergy man also made the same mistake as the soldiers.
There is a meeting-house in Berwick of anti-burghers which has a bell, which was very curious.
They are dissenters from the Church of Scotland. Ringing of bell
as a summons to worship. Barrington, Bishop of Durham, issued a licence,
which still exists. The congregation were in similar to the Church
of Scotland, at the time when the bell was licensed.  
 ALFRED
GATTY. 
The Keate Family, of the Hoo, Herts.- Shall be thankful
of readers for information respecting the Sir Jonathan Keate, Bart.,
of the Hoo, Hertfordshire. He was living in the year 1683. any particulars
respecting his family may also be informed. And now a lone phrase in happening on ourselves. We condition
not say how bimestrial and progressively we ranged ourselves on the
sidelong of the posthumous Premier, or how widely the values now contended
for differ from those which he has carried into achieve.

 But towards destroye everybody without consyderacyon,
is and wyll be unto Englande for ever, a most horryble infamy amonge the solemn senyours of else nacyons.
A great nombre of them whych purchased these superstycyouse mansyons booked of those lybrary
bokes, a number of towards serve theyr jakes, a number of towards scoure theyr candlestycks,
and a number of towards rubbe theyr bootes.

Some they sold towards the grossers and sopesellers, and a number
of they posted again see towards the bokebynders, not within low nombre,
but at tymes complete shyppes full, towards the wonderynge of the
foren nacyons.

 This gave the Germany army enough funds to cover ten calendar months and alleviated
them of the necessity of asking the warring politicians in the Reichstag
for money to start the campaign.

They already had the necessary funds on hand. It
was pure luck that I made that shot and that they didn't ask for
another.

My reputation was made after that, and people gathered to our cause. We had enough to fight the
Ghazu, should it come to that. Here are things you want
to learn more. However, what do we find this? Except in rare or detailed brochures, nothing.
No doubt, there was a book that claimed to be about Buffalo, microscopic
examination but unable to find anything in it worth knowing about
the history of this community.

The author of that book, William Ketchum, had the audacity to name
it, as we read on the cover, "a true and complete story of Buffalo,
with some explanation of its first inhabitants, both savage and civilized."

It was published in 1864 in Buffalo, in two octavo volumes, respectively,
which contains four hundred thirty-two and four hundred forty-three
pages.

In order to understand the absurdity of the thing, we must look at history a little.
It is recalled that for a while and after the War of Independence
of the country on the Niagara River remained in the hands of the British.

Seneca Indians, who sided against the colonies in the war, and who were expelled from their homes
by the expedition of General Sullivan in 1779, gathered around Fort
Niagara and became a nuisance that the English had to create back
in the cleaning of these faithful allies and neighbors unpleasant.

One of the villages was started in Buffalo Creek.

Our historian, Ketchum, has twenty-five chapters in the first volume of his History Comprehensive
and Authentic Buffalo. He moved to the Senecas Buffalo Creek in the
twenty-fourth!

During the rest of the century, the indigenous inhabitants of this
village on the floor where Buffalo was standing, was semi-Reds and
Reds, a few Indian traders who distributed the liquor, and a settler
or two.

The present city of Buffalo, according to the free (and once the mass of condensed wisdom is correct
about the date for liquidating a western city) was founded in 1801
by the Holland Land Company, which opened a land office here in January
of that year.

The announcement of this event can be found in the region of the page 146, in vol. ii, Ketchum's
book - the lack uniform concise statement, the enormous amount of irrelevant material, and
the absence of abstracts lucid and intelligent comment, referring accurately as possible.
The rest of this "global history" is busy with the course of events
until December 30, 1813, when the British burned the town, leaving
only standing two houses - a house-house and a blacksmith's shop.

Here, having brought the Phoenix to ashes, our comprehensive historian brings his narrative
to an abrupt end. This is on page 304. Then follows the appendix "," an invariable feature
of the histories of the city, what makes each of them a big anti-climax.
That It Will Be Remembered for Some Time During and After the Revolutionary War the country about
the Niagara River Remain In The Possession of the British. The Seneca Indians, WHO sided That
Against the Colonies in war, and Who Were Their driven from homes
by the expedition of General Sullivan in 1779, Fort Niagara and around
Gathered Such a nuisance That Became the Español Had to set-up anew
in housekeeping These Faithful Neighbors Allied and disagreeable.

One of the villages They started Was at Buffalo Creek. Our historian, Ketchum, has twenty-five
chapters in the first volume of historical Authentic and Comprehensive History of Buffalo. He
gets the Settled Senecas at Buffalo Creek in the twenty-fourth!
During the rest of the century the Inhabitants of this Indian village on the ground Where Was
Buffalo to stand, and consist of semi-redskins redskins, A Few Indian traders WHO doled out the
Firewater, and a settler or two.

The present city of Buffalo, According To the encyclopaedia (and
for eleven o'clock mass of condensed wisdom That is correct about
the date of settlement of a Western city), Was Founded in 1801, by
the Holland Land Company, Which Opened to land here in office That
January of year.

The notice of this event May be found in the region of page 146, in vol. ii, of Ketchum's book,
- the uniform Lack of concise statement, irrelevant for the huge amount of matter, and the
Absence of lucid summaries and intelligent comment, making reference more exact impossible.
The rest of This "comprehensive history" is Occupied with the course of events down to December
30, 1813 When the British burnt the town, But Leaving two houses standing - a dwelling-house
and a blacksmith's shop. Here, historical Brought HAVING Phoenix to ashes, Our historian Brings
Comprehensive historical narrative to an abrupt end. This is at page 304. Then FOLLOWS the "appendix,"
an invariable feature of city histories, Which makes of Every One of them a huge anti-climax.
 The curved line from the mountains overlooking the Engadine
going south-west near St. Gotthard, Monte Rosa, and Mont Blanc to the Martime Alps is the principal
axis and the path of the geological strata. 

Governor Hutchinson, in his History of Massachusetts, presents the truth Downing's affiliation,
which has been further confirmed by Mr. Savage, of Boston, the public records of New England. According
to Hutchinson, Sir George died in 1684.]
Unkid .-- Can any of your readers inform me about the derivation of this word, or give any instance
of its recent use? I have often heard in my childhood (the first part of this century) in the rural
population of Oxon and Berks.

It is usually applied to the circumstances of melancholy or sad, but sometimes is used to express a
peculiar state of feeling, being apparently intended to convey almost the same meaning as
the boredom of the French. I (222) I remember an allusion to the phrase somewhere in the writings
of Miss Mitford, who speaks of it as belonging to Berks, but as I was then ignorant of the
maxim of Captain Sepia, I do not "take note of this ", so I am unable
to put my hand on the passage.

G. T.
Reading.

[Mr. Sternberg also found this word in Northamptonshire, because in his valuable work on the
dialect and folklore of the county produces the following derivation
of it: - "UNKED, Hunker, art lonely, bored and miserable."

Was like that when unked away the war. "" A House unked, "& c. Bosworth gives, as the derivative,
the uncyd A.-S., lonely, speechless. In the list of words Batchelor Bedfordshire, ungkid is written."]

The Pilgrim's Progress .-- The common issues for a third party, exposing the life of Tender-conscience:
this third part is not believed to have been written by Bunyan, and is ignored in some, at least
in modern editions. Can any of your readers explain who this addition
was made, and all about?

The theme of Pilgrim's Progress in general - the stories of the same nature which is said to
have gone before - especially in Catholic times - the story of your edits and notes, give some
interesting columns. In 1695, it reached a second edition, and a sixth in 1705. In 1708, there
were allegations in the title of the ninth edition of the second
part, by a note, the third part, suggested to be s J. Bunyan, is a
sham.

"The author of this forgery is still unknown.

Mr. Offor also devoted fifty pages of his Introduction to the prototypes Bunyan Pilgrim's
conjecture. He says: "Any statement or suggestion that came to my knowledge been investigated,
and the works in question have been analyzed. And beyond this, all allegorical work that can
be found, before the eighteenth century, was examined in all European
languages, and the result is a perfect demonstration of the complete
originality of Bunyan. "] 
John Frewen .-- What is known of the
divine? Although the Thersites dwell and the righteous fall,and usually are not honoured.
Captain Campbell being one of our benefactors, hopefully his manes will be thoughtful to our dismay,
and his nationality and family allow us to interact with their just problem, this small grain of
respect,in which our effort as to the extent lies within our ability to give the holy debt
of thankfulness.
With the experienced losses in which the expedition has seen, it is a scare that our great
companion we must accept, the Naturalist Kummer; however, with no
true proof of his demise has been shown of his fate, his many friends,
all experiencing fear, still retain hope of his life.

Hopefully they will not be let down. He cut lengths of rope roughly half
a foot long, although some were bigger.
He ripped the paper into small pieces and on one side of every piece he wrote, "Please do not
send us," and on the other, he wrote "Definitive Proof."
 According
the proffessor henry, the sound of a whistle is distributed horizontally. However, it is much
stronger in the plane which contains the lower edge of the bell than on the side. If the whislte
is standing upright, in its typical position, it has a more distinct sound in the horizontal plan,
than it does above or below.
The steam fog-whistle used in steamboats and trains. It is 6-18 inches in diamter, and is operated
under steam pressure (of about 50-100 psi). An engine takes gets all its steam from the same
boiler. It will automatically turn on and off different valves at
pre-determined times arranged in a perfect orchestra of engineering. In the beginning of spring season, it was on a bright breezy day in the
realm of Dublin Castle. We, the Lord Lieutenant's sister, Mrs. Arthur Henniker, with the help of
whom he did the honours of the Castle and with whom I was acquainted in London, Mr. Fulke Greville
and I were going for a walk around the curiously ancient buildings and courtyards which formed the
area of Dublin Castle.

We could hear a military band playing opposite the main gate, and see them too. There was a
guard seated high above, who resembled the guard seated at St. James Fort. It was an encouraging
scene to its maximum. We happened to come across the enormous Round Tower as we were walking through
an arcade. On the top of this tower, the Union Jack was floating. it could be assumed that
it dated back to a period of King John. There was a chapel nearby called Chapel Royal. It resembled
the one at Windsor. At this place we saw the guardian of the place.

He was a strange old man but very helpful and he was the one who was to guide us in the tour
of the murky, but magnificent building.  He was very precise in his manner and he showed us the
fourteenth century painted windows with pride. We were also shown the special pews which meant
for the King, where the women and men of the court were seated and the coats of arms which belonged
to the several Governors from Ireland.

These were a century old, and he also showed us a thin ray of sunlight falling which appeared
golden in color. He said that it was the coat of arms of the Earl
of Rochester. He was also considered as a happy, amusing, evil and
the regretful person. At higher altitudes we observe the Cirrus, or "Curly", clouds. They are
insubstantial, stretch out in long trains, apparently aligned with the magnetic pole, and tend
to curl up at one end. Sometimes, people, when they see them, are
heard to exclaim, "Holy Mackerel Clouds, Andy!". We got to
some rather biggish palm trees first, followed by montes, and then a forest which runs northward
on this side of the river. There were lots of trees, which added to the tropical appearance.
 There was something peculiar charm in the lighter
side of the nature of Stephen, a simplicity and childishness, which was the secret of his popularity
much more than their weight qualities. Women Harmouth called him handsome, but had small claims
to beauty. A figure well set-up above the middle height, black hair graying at the temples, eyes
that seemed to laugh due to a slight contraction of the muscles at the outer corners, and a
nose much too tall and bony. The expression of the mouth was cunning, almost sarcastic, and possibly
a bit thick, but redeemed himself and his smile lit her face as the sun. What stunned the ladies
Harmouth was really true luxury in dress and easy to habits that
are not common in the small town.

It is always the exotic we appreciate in our conservatories.
This summary of the French foreign man was not estimated Deena, watching their approach - that was
very familiar with their appearance to receive a special print. She accepted his apology for
his pure and to keep their hopes with an indifferent air, and turned again toward the sea.

CHAPTER II.
The pebble beach Wolfshead was by stones thrown on haphazardly and ridges of black algae marking
various encroachments of the tide. Stephen touched the top of a rock bass with his handkerchief
and Deena invited to sit.
"You would be more comfortable," he said, "if Ben would come with the cushions."

"I'm very comfortable without them," she said, "I can not help but resent the attitude of Paul
and Virginia Young Minthrops. One would think a year of married life would have satisfied his
ambition to tête-à-têtes. I wonder if sufficient follow each other, if you really were on
a desert island. "
"Would you be happy on an island like the man of your heart, Mrs. Ponsonby" asked Stephen. 
And
Deena, the feeling that Simeon was necessarily the man of her heart, and that was quite inadequate
to live on air sea and love, he replied, smiling:
"Not unless there was an entirely new plant to keep it happy."
Stephen saw his opportunity to make their communication, and said quickly:
"I suspect you've been reading articles in the scientific Simeon on the vegetation of Tierra
del Fuego.

They are very capable.'d Have to go there and check everything has been taken in Reading. We
fully recognize that we have an extraordinary man in Harmouth our professor of botany. "
Deena blushed with pleasure.
"Poor Simeon," she said, "have brought limited resources in the way of personal research, and then
also the university holidays are too short for long trips."
"Let's take more classes in the cause of science," said Stephen, of emotion. "Why, a book like
Simeon to write after a scan - Tierra del Fuego, say - would place him among the world's scientists."

The idea that raced Deena's mind was what would be dull reading, but acknowledged the inappropriateness
of reflection and said, simply:
"It's a shame not to have a little more money."
Stephen put his hand in his pocket and pulled out half letter, and
then dropped back a bit and then walked outside and looked Deena thoughtfully,
as if trying to readjust their previous ideas of for this coquetry
of her appearance. The way his mind had flown to Simeon when a desert
island existence was proposed seemed as if he cared, and Stephen hated
to give pain, yet, the letter had to be answered, and the opportunity
was not likely to become occur. What had always admired most his friend's
wife was common sense - that trust. After a while, King Richard remembered his mother, Queen Elianor, who'd
been taken from her husband sixteen years prior and kept in an English prison. He wrote letters
to those rulers and ordered them to set her free and gave her authorization
through his letters to rule the kingdom herself in his absence.

 Row houses are better when there are no more than two rooms from front to rear. Otherwise
lighting can be an issue. An interior room with poor lighting is okay to the family that lives
there but can often seem unimpressive to visitors who stop in to see it. This includes rooms
receiving only a bit of light from a porch or a narrow court.
As long as it's practical, each room should have at least two windows. This is especially true
for corner rooms.
Breezes should be a first consideration in the planning in order to
allow air circulation.

If an extension is built, then proper dimensions should be considered for the inhabitants. These
dimensions are as follows: six feet wide for a two story dwelling and seven feet for a three
story dwelling.

Front porches should not extend across the whole front (which in
turn darkens the ground floor rooms), but should extend only part
way with one window being free.

This will give greater privacy to the porch and add value as well. In order for this to work
the house should be at least 18 feet wide so that the whole family can sit outside and enjoy
splendid weather.
Privacy

Even thought families share many memories and daily experiences, function as a unit, and generally
spend a significant amount of time together, provisions should be
taken in order to create individual privacy.

The bare minimum of these requirements is that there be at least 3 bedrooms. This grouping is,
of course, easier in a two-story house, but considerations can be
taken in order to ensure privacy in both settings.

One should consider these bare requirements because a normal family will contain both boys and girls
and needs to have a separation between public and private space in the house. A two-story house
solves many of these problems by placing bedrooms and bathrooms on the second floor while creating
common space on the first.

Two-story houses are more than often more economical to build and
operate while.

Don't be discouraged that a flight of stairs will add to a house-wife's work as it changes
very little.

But, a third story, no bathroom on the main floor, and a common space upstairs, do significantly
add to the cumbersome task of moving up and down the stairs. This can be solved by placing
the kitchen, dining room, living room, and lavatory on the ground floor.

Additional stair climbing can be removed by having the laundry room on the same floor as the kitchen.
This removes the need to go up and down between a cellar or basement but will greatly increase
the activity in the kitchen space on a weekly basis (even if only for a few days). If the
laundry is placed in the kitchen it could at best disrupt the kitchen activities, but at worst
provide a distraction by filling it with steam or cluttering the kitchen space with clothes on top of
meals to be prepared. This leads many to suggest that the best method is in fact a complete
separation of the kitchen and laundry space. This is often accomplished by building an extension from
the kitchen.
Without a danger of pipes freezing, this extension can be built with light construction in Philadelphia
and due south. But, a cut-off needs to be installed so taht these pipes can be emptied when
not in use.
Sanitation
A bathroom needs to be on the bedroom floor and a toilet on the ground floor. Basement bathrooms
can be installed but are not necessary, just a convenience; especially for servants. But, with
no ventilation and a poorly lit space, these installations can be a bad idea. A bathroom that is not
heated with too low of a floor (not high enough above the sewer line) will quickly become
a large nuisance.
A sewer connected toilet in the lawn is only slightly higher than an outhouse. They are difficult
to reach in inclement weather, likely freeze in the winter, and is
very public. 
Suggestions for Decorating and Furnishing a Model
home 
PREPARED BY TEH BUREAU OF INFORMATION 
Remodeling a house
is a large task. Taking an empty home and making it livable is less
so, but still difficult. Creating the tone on the inside of the house
is more or less an art. They don't create the pieces that populate
a home, but they intricately arrange them to make a house feel like
a home. They want everything to work together to make the home a place
of solitude. The next writing is from a portion of the Court Rolls
of the Borough of Hales Owen regarding the custo of Bride Ale.
"A law is made that no one person(s) may sell any brewed wedding ale nor shall they use twelve
strikes of mault at the maximum. These folks may not keep anything above eight people within
their burrow before the bridal day. There will be no illega games in or out of the house."
 The hair is arranged in rings... and draped on the right side with
clusters of red roses.
Secondly, a flowing line of dark silk made not fancy and not slim
with fitting close to ones being.

Ball dresses are very detailed with fancy designs with fibbons, lace and flowers.
The style is velvet necklaces and bracelets. the clors used mostly are red, garnet , light pink
and black which makes ones white skin pop! The author is never bitter toward the Germans. For example, he writes of giving last
rites to an Irishman who did not regain consciousness since being
brought to the camp. 79.
To produce a Pudding of a Manchet. Take a Manchet, placed it into a Posnet, and fill the Posnet
upward with Cream, thereafter placed in Sugar and entire Spice, and let it boil leisurely till
all the Cream be wasted away, thereafter placed it into a Dish, and take several Rosewater, and Butter
and Sugar, and pour across it, so serve it in with fine Sugar strewed all across it.

Your Manchet must be chipped ago you placed it into the Cream.

80. To produce a Calves chief Pie.

Make your Paste, and lay it into your Pan as ago, thereafter lay in Butter, and thereafter
your Calves Head, being tenderly boiled, and cut in small lean bits, and seasoned with Pepper,
Salt and Nutmeg, thereafter placed in several Oysters, Anchovies and Claret Wine, with several
yolks of hard Eggs and Marrow, thereafter wrap it with Butter, and plug it and roast it; as shortly
as it is roasted, eat it hot.

81. To dry Tongues.

Take several Pump water and Bay salt, or quite refined Saltpeter, which is better; produce a intense
Brine therewith, and as shortly as the Salt is well melted in it, placed in your Tongues,
and let them lie one Week, thereafter placed them into a fresh Brine, prepared in the same
manner, and in that let them lie a week longer, thereafter take them
out, and dry-salt them with Bay Salt defeated small, till they are
as hard as may be, thereafter dangle them in the Chimney where you
burn Wood, till they are very dry, and you may retain them as lengthy
as you please; as shortly as you would eat of them, boil them with
in the Pot as well as Water, for that shall produce them appearance
black, and eat bid, and appearance red within; as shortly as they
are cold, serve them in with Mustard and Sugar.

82. To produce Angelot Cheese.

Take several fresh Milk and strokings jointly, the quantity of a Pail full, placed several Runnet
into it, and stir it well approximate, and wrap it till your Cheese
be come, thereafter have poised narrow profound Moats frank at both
ends, and with your flitting Dish fill your Moats as they stand upon
a board, without breaching or wheying the Cheese, and as they sink,
motionless fill them upward, and as shortly as you perceive you can
turn them, which shall be approximate the following day, retain them
with due turning double in a day, and dry them delicately, and as
shortly as they are half a year old, they shall be fit to be eat.

83. To produce a Hare-Pie.

Take the flesh of a very great Hare, and defeat it in a Mortar with
as much Marrow or Beef Suet as the Hare contains, thereafter placed
in Pepper, Salt, Nutmeg, Cloves and Mace, as much as you judge to
be fit, and defeat it again till you locate they be well stirred,
thereafter having your Paste poised in your Baking-Pan, lay in several
Butter, and thereafter your Meat, and thereafter Butter again; so
plug it, and roast it, and as shortly as it is cold, serve it in with
Mustard and Sugar, and garnish your Dish with Bay leaves; this shall
retain much longer than any other Pie.

84. To rost a Shoulder of Venison or of Mutton in Bloud.
 

Unfortunately, the Hurons and the Algonquins began to skirmish.

Their fight began to incite more violence amoung the other tribes
which had been loyal to the Friend so Champlain dropped his ambitions
of journeying to the Far West and began to do his best to restore
the peace.

He though did not do this without much disappointment.

He wrote about this time: "If ever there was one greatly disheartened,
it was myself, since I had been waiting to see this year what during
many preceding ones I had been seeking for with great toil and effort,
through so many fatigues and risks of my life.

But realizing that I could not help the matter, and that everything
depended on the will of God, I comforted myself, resolving to see
it in a short time."

Champlain knew exactly what he was giving up by answering the call
of duty as he had heard much from the fur traders in the areas out
West about the large animals such as the buffalo, the fishing that
was said to be good out West and the fact that he would have to travel
40 days coming and going from that destination.He knew what was out
there but, he was honorable and noble and promptly gave up his own
ambition for the sake of the people.

He succeeded in his quest to restore peace between the Hurons and the Algonquins. He was rewarded
for his efforts by getting to know the Hurons better.

He learned a lot about their relations with their neighborss--"the Tobacco Nation, the Neutral
Nation, les Cheveux Releves, and the Race of Fire."

He then was able to write down this information in his book, the "Voyage of 1615" which provides
physical descriptions of the people, their Settlements, provides
information about wigwams,food, clothing, decor, marriage rites, medicine
people, funeral rites, assemblies,farming, fun, and ways of catching
fish.

This was in fact one of Champlain's greatest descriptive works and
even today it is said to be, while not as detailed as the written
descriptions of the Hurons made by the Jesuits, a great piece of work.

Champlain, left the wilds of the Huron on May 20, 1616.He traveled for 40 days to the Sault St.
Louis to see his old friend Pontgrave and from then on was Quebec's
devoted servant.

CHAPTER V. CHAMPLAIN'S LAST YEARS

His arrival at the Sault St Louis on July 1, 1616, marked the end of Champlain's explorations.
He dedicated his remaining 19 years to Quebec as a lieutenant.

Because of his good work and his mastery, he won the right to be the
King's representative in the New France.

He was the one to decide what terms of trade would be accepted and what monopolies would be granted.
And when Boyer was impertinent to Champlain, the Council demanded
that Boyer make a public apology to him.

 It
is my desire that throughout this course, I will open up a positive
spirit in search of the hidden truth.

Since it is a necessity for the growth of science, for men to explore
into things that possibly could contradict them, rather then staying
in the lines of the proven principles.

An unwillingness to explore into the unknown, could keep the errors
that are not found in the proven facts.

 

It seems to me that forgetfulness represents so great a loss of experience that, if I were
to live my life over again, I would spend at least 30 minutes every
day writing down the names and stories of the people I met, no matter
how dull they seemed.

Imagine what kind of journal I would have today, if I had kept such
a list starting with my friends in school, keeping it updated with
news and making note of the event in their lives!

Instead, of the two or three hundred boys I knew in school, I still know or can clearly recall
only a tenth of them. Of the others, I know nothing.

For a few years I remembered everyone clearly.

I remembered the smiles of three hundred rosy faces. I recalled how three hundred schoolboy's
jackets, from the mayor's son's velvet coat to the flour-covered
jacket of the baker's boy, told the story of the owner's status.

I could still hear each different voice, could see where each child sat in school, could remember
each boy's way of speaking, his manner, and the way he moved. Over time, the distinct faces merged
into a pink blur, the varied jackets into a single neutral color,
the unique way of going into a modest movement.

Finally, all details were lost in a dense fog and my ability to visualize individuals was gone.

I am saddened by this, and I often wish I could blow away the fog
and see the details once more.

 

Sight, thusly, is given to not changing the location of the sensations or the placement of the
capture, as well as to the recognition of these two aspects as being separate from one another--that
is, the sensations as separate from the organ which senses them, as they are in reality. In this
way, we should account for the mechanism for the discernment of distance by the eye; of the
firm conviction that Sight could never have perceived of this distance
were it not for the help of Touch.

In order to correctly understand the above reasoning--in fact, to
push forward a single footstep towards inculcating a true philosophy
of sensation--we need to rid ourselves of the bias indoctrinated to
us by an inaccurate physiology, that what we refer to as our "organism",
or in the accepted vernacular, our body, is unquestinably the center
of our sensations.

That all of our sensations end up connected in some manner with our physical body, and that
some sensations even end up being associated with it in place, is incontestable; however, it
is so far from the truth, that they are all basically involved with or internal to it, and are
incapable of existing separated from it, that we find a straightforward proof of the opposite
in the sensations of Sight; and until the physiologist can certify (that which has yet to be proven)
a theoretical necessity that our sensation must be located in the same space with our bodies,
and a theoretical absurdity in the opposite conjecture, he must pardon us for firmly supporting
the facts as we see them.
This is an opinion that generates a lot of discussion, and we would
happily enlarge upon the subject if we had the time and space; however,
we must settle for concluding the presentation with the accessory
diagram, which we believe illustrates our view without any possibility
of error.

A Ba áC

Let A represent the first synthesis, or lack of separation between Sight and its snesations--of light
and color.
 

Jumper, Jumper, Jumper, how pretty and sensible is he? If mankind had half the Sagacity of Jumper,
they would guard against accidents of this kind by having a public
survey occasionally made of all the houses in every Parish (especially
the old and decayed ones) and not leave them to remain in bad condition
to the point where they fall down on the heads of the inhabitants
and kill them.

Why yesterday did an entire house fell down on Grace Church Street and on Queens Street. A
hundred more are going to fall within a year.

My friends, take care of yourselves, and tell the Legislature, to take care of you. How can you
be so careless?

Most of your problems come from carelesness and extravagance and
yet you make up excuses for the mishaps and blame them on mear fortune.

You are a fool to let fortune have the power to play tricks on you.
Yours,

The "Man in the Moon".

This little bird is a Nightingale. This little creature, entertains us with her songs all
Spring and then she gathers up her babies and flies off to a different land. She finds her way
across the Great Sea without any help or intrusments unlike man who
needs them to navigate in this manner.

If you were as wise as the Nightingale, you might will make all the sailors happy, and they
will pay you twenty thousand pounds for teaching them your methods
of navigation.

You would not think Ralph the Raven to be so wise and so good than he is, yet you see him here
reading his book. Yet when the prophet Elijah was obliged to fly from Ahab King of Israel and
hide himself in a cave, the Ravens, at the Command of God Almighty,
gave him food everyday that saved his life.

The word of the Lord came to Elijah and said,"Hide thyself by the
Brook Cherith, that is before Jordan, and I have commanded the Ravens
to feed thee there."

"And the pretty Pidgeon when the World was drowned, and he was confined
with Noah in the Ark, was sent forth by him to see whether the waters
were abated, And he sent forth a Dove from him, to see if the waters
were abated from off the face of the ground."

Genesis 8:11.
Animals are sensible and kind to us so we ought to be tender and good
to them and not beat, kill, and take away their young ones as evil
boys do to them.

 

Now the boy has grown to be a man.He comes to her in his uniform.He said "Ah,these partings!They
were really in the death-hour of their dear once.But the woman knows it.They both smiled through
their tears like Andromache
With the brave and silent hearts they both face the sequel together.Every week The mother of Sub-Lieutenan
came to recieve letter from that little boy.That cheerful little pencil was scruggling like this
"Dearest Mother, I have dug-out now three planks and a tree of straw, and I sleep on it like a
top". or perhaps "You see they have sent me back to the Base after
six weeks under fire, and now I have a real, real room, and a real,
real bed!"

The dear old darling!
 

I am keen on this position. Speculative economics, furthermore, fails to account for all the
facts, and it ignores opposing information. Once we take human interests into account, the notion
of all-things-being-equal loses its value.

There are everyday facts and common occurrences in the individual that must not be lost to abstraction.
When economics are applied in politics, either the speculative principles will remain and cause
damage, or the principles will themselves be lost in application.
 

i din't had any doubt for more than eight months when it was talked
i begged with doctor bell to be particular in his enquiries,but he
neglected.

 As Rev. Hugh Blair, the Earl of Glencairn, Mr. William Dunbar and Mr. James Johnson left
Edinburgh, he thanked them for their kindness and the gift of Spenser's
poems.

 One
of the universal truths in Mr. Harding's eighth edition oh his very
worthy "System of Short-Hand," which is very pleasantly illustrated,
he adds the "Dirge on Miss LNG,"in which we copied from the "New Monthly
Magazine;" however credit is given to Mr. Harding for this current
application.

A whole number could be written of the MIRROR on short-hand advantages
to the community; however this would not be an acquired illustration,
so we choose to abstain.

Just think of the "Times" newspaper being so far outside of town before half the population of
London has risen from sleep; and pondering over the prior night's debates at his breakfast
table at Woburn Abbey is the Duke of Bedford. Without the assistance of short-hand what would
all the machinery the Mr. Applegath has do towards the production of the newspaper, which does
make its journey second to only thought.
 "And you'd be right to do so, Sir,"
said Ramee. "There is nothing quite like a good dinner when I'm hungry! And when I remember
that Amphitryon is Henry the Fourth's grandson, my pleasure is doubled at least!"
The duke replied, "My dear, Ramee, no one gives a compliment quite like you!"
"But I do not compliment," Ramee cut in. "I only say exactly what I think."
 Chewing was temporarily halted the witth remarks of the Impayable, until
we saw that he was again leaping out of his chair and dancing a crazy
jig around the room.

He was admirably agile, but the acrobatics ill-suited his solemn garments, and his clothes
became terribly disarranged by his antics. He cried for water as he leapt about.
Oh dear! I have drunk from the vinegar bottle! Oh no! Bring me water, Lord, water! "No, no,
sir, it was table wine, I assure you." "Water! water! oh -- thank you." "No, sir, that is
Kirschen-wasser -- cherry schnapps --" "Any kind of water will do," and soon he had gulped down
that fiery alcoholic beverage that looked so much like water at one gulp.
He struggled for breath -- he groaned in torment and writhed -- and soon he was taken by the
others to his bed. As soon as he could, he popped up again from bed and went back to London
as soon as possible, on the fastest and shortest road. He left with the fear of fire-water and
vinegar burning in his eyes!
******************

Encomium Moriae, or, Speaking well of Foolishness
A wise man once said that if you guard your gold coins in your purse
when you go to market, you will come home with nothing.

So too, if you never speak except to say someting witty, you will
gain nothing from the exchange of conversation.

Talking about unimportant things is just as crucial to the free flow
of sociability as small, unimportant coins are to the market place.
We cannot do without them. Each little remark that seems trivial on
its own adds up to a rich conversation full of value. 

Who can explain the joy and shock of these wonderful people! their eyes were now opened, the
hidden emotions they had experienced, were now known.---She was accepted as the wife, blessed
as the female child, with a gush of inexpressible joy.
 

you will know it by its learning, it's thoughtfulness and how Chrstian its inquiry is. His publications
include the less important, relation of geology and revelation.

He was elected to the Royal Society because of these publications and left a system of chrstian
doctorine.
Ladies' Ya'll Look Good This Season.
London and Paris have had affairs prompting gayety in relation to
a fashionable society. we're talkin': heavey velvets being favored
over silks and satins. the whole thing is airy. There are iron atoms, copper atoms, sulphur atoms, etc, for instance.

There are some atoms that you should already know, so before delving
into how atoms are made out of protons and electrons, here are some
of the names of the atoms that exist in the ground and rocks, water
bodies such as oceans and rivers, and the air around on here on Earth.

Let us begin with exmaining what is in the air. Air consists of many different types of gaseous
matter of which each gas is made up of different atoms from another
gas.There are small amounts of hydrogen and an even smaller amount
of helium in the air, there are many other gases that are also of
a small amount that are present in the air but will not be dealt with
here.

A significant portion of the air around us comprises of nitrogen, which is about 78% of the total
composition, and oxygen, which is about 20.8%.

Thus all other gases besides these two take up the remaining 1.2%
of the air that we breathe in daily.

The atoms of the ground beneath our feet also consists of a significant
portion of oxygen atoms, about 47.3%.

27.7% of the atoms are Silicon atoms, close to half of the remaining composition. Silicon and
Oxygen are the main atomic components of sand, and the prevalence
of sand in the ground and around us on this planet attests to the
dominance of these two elements in the ground.

The other atoms we can find are Aluminum (7.8%); Iron (4.5%); Calcium
(3.5%); Sodium (2.4%); Potassium (2.4%) and Magnesium (2.2%).

The above elements are the primary types you can find in the ground, but there also is approximately
0.2% hydrogen and a similar percentage of carbon. Phosphorus, sulphur, fluorine and other atomic
elements can also be found, but in even smaller degree than the above.

The waters in the oceans and seas are primarily made up of oxygen and hydrogen, which is 85.8% and 10.7%
respectively. This should not be a surprise as water molecues are made up of 2 parts hydrogen
and 1 part oxygen and the oxygen atom is approximately sixteen times larger in mass that the
hydrogen atom.
 

We anticipated the arrival of a certain ship, the Korea.

Once on board, it was my intention to speak with a Chinese woman. She had a small girl with her
named Kum Ping. The woman was aware of our mission, in that she had been forewarned as how
much information to offer especially to the foreign missionaries.

Her hesitant answers attested to this. We knew she held our warnings about the evils of Chinatown
with disregard because she commented, "I am a married woman, my husband will take care of me".
Our interpreter kept the conversation going, and soon had the woman smiling, then she offered to
share some of her roast duck.

 

Sol's response was similar, in that she asked him to take a message to her mother and father to let
them know that she was thinking of them and was in agony at the thought of them being in any pain.

I won't go into further detail on the sad events that Sol experienced. You can clearly tell the
degree of her hardships from the aforementioned account. 10th. -- The military seemed to like us. The officers of the garrison approached,
along with the Commandant.

They were coming to return our call. The officers and Commandant wore smiles and exhibited courtesy.
Dr. Overweg took out some of his scientific tools.

The knowing ones had an opportunity to show their ignorance.

Everything went well.

"You would not have had so much attention paid to you in Tripoli," said Mr. Gagliuffi. While that is
possible, it also could be partly due to the small number of Eurpeans in Mourzuk.
 When a pet cat would die, only the eyebrows of the members of the
household had to be removed. However, if a dog, a more respectable creature, died, every single
member of the household would have to shave both the head and entire
body. 

Of particular note is the costume of younger women which consists of the usual band of cloth round
the waist plus an additional one over the breasts. Their usual adornment is made of metal and
Miller's journal confirms that they have tin earrings and large wire neck rings which are made
of brass. 

I thanked him with a smile. I could see he was studying me as if something was not quite the
same but he couldn't put hit finger on it.

"You think my body has changed, my friend?" I asked him.

The Sicilian looked embarrassed.

"Ebbene! we must all change," he
responded, timidly, avoiding eye contact. "Each passing day steals
away a touch of our youth. We grow old without even knowing it!"

I
laughed.

"I see. So what you're trying to say is that I have aged
a little bit since we last met?"

"A little, eccellenza," he timidly
responded. 

If this lease not mend, hire them, to prevent the worst, grant with an [6299]astrologer, and see
whether the significations in her horoscope clinch with his, that
they be not in sings et part bus otiose intuentibus aut imperantibus,
sed mutuo et amice antisciis et obedient bus, discrepant (as they
nuzzle) there want be impossible enmities between them: or another
get them sigil venires, a characteristically get from stamped in the
ticks and go of Venus, when filly smash, with such and such impenetrable
terms and charms, which Villanovans and Person Soaves inflict, ex
sigil’s magic’s Salomon is, Hermetis, Raguelis, &c. with many
such, which Alexis, Albertus, and some of our traditional magicians
garner leading us: ut mulier cum aliquo adulterare non posit, inside
de capelins emus, &c. and he shall definitely be exceptional in all
men's perceiving, and never dubitable or vary with his season spouse
so long as he wears it.

If this fashion be not agreed, and other remedies may not be had, they must in the advance
recess process for a separate; but that is rather mystifying to thrust,
and not all out so codify.

For as Feluccas in his leaflet de just uxorial urgent, if that redress
of Metropolis the Imperative, or that of Theodosius and Palestinian,
concerning distance, were in zero in our nowadays, innumeracy propemodum
viduas haberemus, et coelibes viros, we should have partly no mated
couples reclusive.

Exam and so those recent remedies; or as Theologist gossip of Democritus,
that conduct out his sight, [6300]because he could not representation
winning a woman astray ardor, and was much unfavorable to see that
which he might not dominate; contract him make himself blindfold,
and so he shall cut dead that moment and molestation of study his
companion.

Sui Generis other acute remedy I could summarize, a primo curative
rail jealousy, an untainted service, but I am not now inured to caution
it, not that like a guarded empiric I conceal it for any gain, but
some other reasons, I am not noble to impart it: if you be very wanting
to see daylight it, when I concentrate you approaching I big idea
peradventure name you what it is in your stem.

 

Do you agree with me in thinking that perhaps she wanted to strangle
Welter?

Chapter three.
The weather was particularly foul that day. It was raining heavily
and the treacly clouds made the muddy streets dark and dreary.

Nature was pitched against the poor people in their sodden shoes
and damp headgear. All around was a sense of miserable abandonment. During the brief official relationship of the Minister Gladstone,
who succeeded in 1846, Lord Stanley, Sir Eardley Wilmot was recalled, and Mr. La Trobe and Sir William
Denison were sequentially applied to the top of our colonial affairs. Like his predecessor, Mr.
Gladstone complained that mediated by Wilmot and the Auditor-General, lush statistics, the
most important moral questions left in the dark.

Mr. Forster had passed beyond the reach of censure, claiming Sir Eardley Wilmot, the actual evil
imputed were the subject of incessant communication formed. He led his impressions of the other, and
to see, but the surface was up to the last convinced that the parole
system had not failed.

The dispatch of Mr. La Trobe fully confirmed the joint report.

His honest discrimination was worthy of its high reputation for integrity. Nothing, the reader
will read by his thorough analysis baseless - which can be expressed
in one sentence - that provides both the high-wrought iron theory
and practice of mischievous of probation department: - "superior spite
of all the details of the system, is vice of all kinds to be complied
with on each page was not isolated as a place, but as a penetrating
stain "[273].

Dr. Hampton, whose ideas are still largely contributed to these official
changes, but they were strengthened by a mass of matching products,
received the appointment of Auditor General.

Meanwhile, the Office of Secretary of State for the Colonies Earl Grey to transfer, and when
he took office he resigned once all the plans of his predecessors. The practice of transportation,
he decided to stop, and in its place to inflict the punishment at home, and send the prisoners,
as the liberation entitled to the various colonies of the British
Empire.

His expectation that their work would be highly appreciated, was selected by the associations
"in Port Phillip fastened to get workers from Van Diemen's Land,
and the decisions of the Committee of the New South Wales Council,
where a strong inclination was issued on to renew the part of employers,
transportation.

Several ships had been sent loads of Pentonville, and the nominal lists of employment and wages
appeared to provide an unlimited field for their successors. Just take the possibility of appeal,
however, Earl Grey sent circulars to all the colonies on this side the Cape of Good Hope. The answer
was generally negative, and the plan, which was a few years ago would have gladly accepted, was
made impracticable perhaps forever.

The total elimination of northern Australia was a subject of great regret to its viewers and had
done too quickly, but proposed as a replacement, Earl Grey of the
founding of villages in the remote areas of the Van Diemen's Land.

The construction of houses and a limited cultivation of forest land, was making through his power
to work for the ticket holders and expects to fund the same amount
of free emigration yield. and provided a priest and teacher in all,
there were these homes built on quarter acres of garden plots, should
the prisoner, or subject to a rent of £ 5 will be sold per year.

It would be pointless, even the plan, based on an assessment of the crown at that time was
wrong basis, and to examine the false assessment of the mere work,
in any form whatsoever.

Short-term changes through intelligent supervision is carried out, and the vigilant censorship
of the public may be readily known.

Transfer the decline in numbers in the bonds, and the greatly improved resources of the department
have several great evil that once triggered complaints improved.
 4.
Tit. 4. et 6. de officio marital et luxuries, Christ. Fonseca Amphitheater. Amour. cap. 45.
Sam.

Meander , &c.  These cautions apprehension him; and if by those or his own judgment or
else he cannot modest himself, his acquaintances must not be inadequate
by their understanding, if it be credible, to give the party grieved
satisfaction, to prevent and remove the occasions, objects, if it
may be to secure him.

If it be one alone, or numerous, to believe whom he suspect or at what times, in what seats
he is most exasperated, in what companies.  [6290]Nevadans makes a problem whether a young doctor
of pills ought to be admitted in cases of disease, into a new-married man's house, to administer
a julep, syrup, or a few such physics. The Persians of old would
not suffer a young physician to come amongst women.

[6291]Apollo ides Coos made Artaxerxes cuckold, and was after covered alive for it. A foaled
in Aristarchus had a fine young gentleman to his detainee; [6292] in commiseration of his youth
and person he let him loose, to enjoy the liberty of the secure element,
but he meanly made him a cornucopia.

Menelaus gave first-rate receive to Paris a interloper, his total
private house and people be at his command, but he pungently stole
away his best adored wife.

The like quantify was on hand to Ages king of Lace daemon, by [6293]
Alcibiades an exile, for his first-rate pursuit, he was too familiar
with Tim ea his wife, begetting a child of her, called Pesticides:
and bragging moreover when he came locale to Athens, with the purpose
of he had a son have to to be king of the Macedonians.

If such bits and pieces were interfaced, no uncertainty but the
party might effortlessly be contented, or that they possibly will
use them smoothly and pray them well, not to condemn them, scoff at,
hate them, as in such cases commonly they do, 'tis a human frailty,
a down irritation, and they ought to not add grief to angst, nor embroider
their misery, but seek to please, and by all means give them content,
by good warning, removing such distasteful bits and pieces, or by
intervention of some cautious friends.

In old Rome at hand was a temple erected by the matrons to that [6294]Fireplace lifeless, a different
to Venus vermicelli, shake virtues uxorious redhead bannisters, whither
(if any difference happened between man and wife) they did instantly
resort: there they did offer sacrifice, a white hart, Plutarch records,
sine felled, without the gall, (some say the like of Juno's temple)
and make their prayers for conjugal peace; before some [6295] indifferent
arbitrators and friends, the stuff was heard stuck amid man and consort,
and in general unruffled.

In our times we fancy no hallowed churches, or first-class men
to last part such controversy, if use were made, of them.  several
say that prized stone called [6296]beryllium, others a lozenge, hath
admirable good worth, contra hostile injuries, ET conjugates account
placate, to square men and wives, to sustain unity and adore; you
may try this when you will, and as you see cause.

If not a hint of all these wealth and cautions will take place, I know not what remedy to prescribe,
or whither such personnel may go for ease, except they can get into the same [6297]Turkey delight,
"Where they shall have as numerous flaxen wives as they will themselves,
with patent eyes, and such as look on none but their be in possession
of husbands," no fear, no danger of being cuckolds; or else I would
have them study that harsh statute of [6298]Alp horns, to tie the
reef knot a deaf and dumb man to a blind woman.

 

You can say, in some circumstances, that Macaulay will continue to have a considerable value
of appreciation as long as those like him will be around. Whig is not a modern ideology anymore
as Liberals and Radicals consider it beneath their own.

The downfall of this title is a major change in politics but I do not think it will prove to
be a significant alteration in the national spirit. New typologies and ideologies emerged upon
the old ones, but they seem to have the same base with a new face.

The character of Whiggism is prominent and clear in Macaulay but it is also embedded in the
deep roots of the national spirit which assumes both good and worse
traits of this considered old ideology.

Its overlooking or adversity to pure reason, its stuborness to not derail from its own religious
and political beliefs can raise some doubts even considering their honorable side. But still,
you have to admit that this is something to admire, it is something characteristic for most
Englishmans. Their ignorance for other ideas, actions and beliefs that are not their own. Their
ambition to act calm, determined and precise accordingly to their vision can be the key qualities
that lead them to a bright future.
 It was 25th August. Captain Perraud of
the 17th Colonial Regiment and his men were at war. They were firing on some soldiers who
wore red trousers. Upon noticing this, the captain immediately ordered his men to stop firing. To
the shock of his men and himself, the men they thought to be British started firing at them.
They were in fact Germany carefully disguised!
Another incident of note on the same day happened at Einvaux.

Dr. Millet of the same regiment was attending to the wounds of an injured soldier. His two colleagues
and he were trying to lay the man on the stretcher. His back was to the enemy and his work was
clearly identifiable; regardless of this, the Germans fired at him from just 300 yards out.

Believe us, &c.,
G.PRESTON, President. ARAMANI HASSLEHOFF, Reportings.  Paris, Dec. 17, 1914.  FRENCH MAYOR SUSPENDED

[By The Reuters Press.]
Nancy, Jan 30 – The mayor of a large nearby town was suspended for a fortnight. He was caught
shooting at a German plane flying in that area.
He may have been trying to protect the town, but his actions would mean the complete opposite. By
acting in this combative way, the Germans could have easily returned fire and the situation
would have gotten a whole lot worse. The authorities of Nancy recognised this and punished
the mayor for not thinking through his actions.
The Will To Fight to the End  By M. Briand, Minister of Justice Premier Viviani of France delivered
to Parliament an address upon the war which attracted worldwide attention. He notified the Germans
and Austrians that France will not lay down her arms until she and her allies in such a dramatic
fashion that they could then dictate the terms. He addressed the Chamber of Deputies on Dec.
22, and his speech was read at the Senate by M. Briand, Minister of Justice. It talked about
the following:  He mentioned that this was not the first time the parliament was meeting
regarding an important policy and this was no different. He said the policy contained only
one significant matter – that they fight until Europe is freed and peace guaranteed.
He referred to the meeting of August 4th, where all Frenchmen put aside their qualms and differences
which were once thought to be the French weakness. The concerns by all on that day, and the
President’s outcry were history in the making. They have made France united and brought about
this day, today, possible. He said it was the cry that rose form trenches which have eaten away
France’s youth and manhood.
He further added that Germany was only interested in itself and was intoxicated by a dream of
victory. He mentioned that the Germans, before the sudden feeling of nationality by the Frenchmen,
denied rights, used force, and flouted history. They tried to get Belgium, a neutral nation,
on their side. They were blinded by victory. 
Viviani stated that
the world would soon come to know of these terrible acts by the Germans
and the Germans knew about it too. He said “her Government, learning
that it had to reckon with the opinion of the world, has recently
attempted to put her conduct in a better light by trying to throw
the responsibility for the war upon the Allies”. They tried to hide
the truth but it must fail and the world must know about their actions.
 

If you are ever accosted do not take our your watch or matchbox and do not admit to knowing the
direction to anywhere. Always just approximate the time and swear that you have no matches
on your person. Little old ladies with kind hearts stop to give potential
beggars the opportunity to snatch their purses.

I wonder how many of them lose their purses and watches on an annual baisis. In conclusion
if you want to be as safe as possible in a dicy neighborhood listen
attentively, watch carefully and walk quickly preferably in the middle
of the road.

The first two hints will help you detect an potential danger and
the latter may help you avoid it.

The All England Series
illustrated Price 1s 400 Gymnastic Competition & Display Exercises
Set at a variety of open competitions and displays during the last
twelve years and voluntary exercises shown by winners of open and
championship gymnastic competitions. edited by F. Graf, Orion Gymnastic
Club 
The book also contains an illustrate glossery of the primary
gynmastic terms; the exercises for the second and third class badge
of the A.G. and F.A. (illus); 42 exercises for developing muscles;
and an article on Training for Competitions, by A Barnard, Captain
of the Orion Gymnasium Club.

On sheets 17"x27". Price 6d; or mounted on cardboard, 1s.

Exercises on the Instruments for the A.G. and F.A third-class test. by A. F. Jenkin with 28 illustrations
by B.M. Jenkin Issued by the Amateur Gymnastic Association, and Published by G. Bell & Sons,
Ltd. York House, POrtugal Street, London, W.C.
The All-England Series Many illustrations. Boxing. Price 1s By R. G. Allanson-Winn
Inns of Court School of Arms, Winner of the Middle Weights, Cambridge,
1876-7; Heavy Weights, 1877-8 
Mr. Winn's book is worth of praise
not only for being one of the best in the field but also the cheapest.
- Field His book give just enough testimony of his writing abilities.

The illustrations are great.
The art of self-defense in treated in a thorough way. The text is clear and enhanced by excellent
illustrations.
New Edition, Revised Illustrated. Wrestling. Price 1s By Walter Armstrong ("cross-Buttocker")
Late Hon Sec
 The Times, on the 2d July, said--"The
plan of the scheme is well-known. Should the King abandon, the conspirators have determined
to treat him like Paul I. The following is the directory of ministers:--General
Canuel, of war; M. de Chateaubriand, of foreign affairs; M. Bruges,
of the navy; M. Villele, of the interior; M. de Labourdonnaie, of
the police; General Donadieu, commandant of Paris."

All this was announced with a form of truth; for all the people
named belonged to the disagreement to the King and his desired.

When, on the other hand, facts were wanted for, and the evidence
was pointed out, the entire structure crumbled away, and there remained
only a few malcontents, but no rebels were to be establish.

The verdict of the Royal Court of Paris, given November 3d following,
stated--"Generals Canuel and Donadieu, MM. de Rieux, de Songis, de
Chapdelaine, de Romilly, and Joannis, are set free and confirmed not
guilty."

They had been jailed forty days.

This issue created a most hurting impression in France, and the minister
of police was reproached with huge gullibility, which made many new
enemies to the government, and did not add to its protection.

The reality was, the right criminals had been unnoticed; and, like the worms which eat away the
core of a beautiful fruit without altering its form and color, they
more expertly and cleverly attacked the very heart of society when
it seemed most safe and protected.

The untrue worm which was intake away at the heart of France, as
it had extensive done those of the other European monarchies, was
Carbonarism.

Like we said in our first chapters, the survival of this supremacy
was hardly suspected, whereas in top secret, by its ramifications,
it ruled Europe.

A man of brainpower and vigor, but whose meek and nearly effeminate
behavior buried strength and firmness, M. H----, at that moment in
the direction of M. Angles, supervised the political police of the
empire.

M. H---- was always alert of the level of the operations of the different
factions, and most likely was the only man in France truly worried
at the influence which Carbonarism exerted in France and the nearby
states.

Frequently he had made connections to the prefect, another minister,
who paid notice to well-known parties and emotionally involved but
slight importance to this new rival, which was, though, the most dreadful
of all, and projected to itself the object of destroying, at any cost,
and expected into its bosom all the operatives of this effort, at
all might be their opinions.

M. H---- had no proof in relative to this horrible association, nor
did he know where it met.

Towards the end of February, 1819, M. H---- received a note preserved in black, and with the
intuition on the wax of an auger piercing the globe.

The weird seal did not run away his notice.

The direction was, "M. H----, for him only, top secret." The higher of the political police read
the note, which was as follows:-- "Monsieur,--A man who can do the
state vast service needs to have an meeting with you, and requirements
that you will contribute him a moment's discussion to-morrow evening
at nine-o’clock, in your cabinet.

He will be cloaked. He begs you to allow him to keep his mask until he shall be fulfilled that
he is seen by nobody else.

 A: There will be two
sections to be tested from each heat of steel. If one of these sections happens to break then
a third one shall be tested as well, but if two of them are broken, yet show no sign of physical
defects then all rails of the particular heat will be completely
rejected. Such a boy he was in his youth! There was no mischief that he wouldn't
get in to in order to get some fruit! She was rambling on about Tom's younger years. Listening
happily to her stories, the two men responded to her inquiries, sharing
a smile at random moments.

As the train neared the station, the train's ticket collected informed the elderly woman that tickets
would be collected at the end stop.

The eldery woman said, "Thank You for informing me so I would know to have my ticket ready, which
I have put away safely. It was quite expensive for a trip to London, but Tom wanted me to come
as I am his mother." She opened her handbag, took out paper which
contained her ticket, and then returned the paper to her purse.

She gently held the ticket in her gloved fingers, as if it were somehow breakable.
"Such a differenr mannerism to the ways of our city!, the Stockbroker thought.
"That shows such great character!" were the thoughts of the ticket holder.

"Oh My! One of my hair pins have come loose" said the elderly woman,
which was quite sudden.

She reached back quickly with the hand holding the ticket to secure
the pin in place.

In an instant, the elderly woman had a look of panic upon her face. Her appearance showed of fear
and anxiety. She uttered out some words that could not be heard or understood.
"May I ask what is wrong?" the Stockbroker inquired.
"I've lost my ticket!"

As I was securing my hair pin, the ticket must have fallen from my
fingers and dropped down between my body and my clothing" 

Westminister, England

As I was examining the Glossary of Architecture in regard to the query made by Mr. J.Z.P. I
concluded the difference between a crozier and a pastoral staff.

The entry pertaining to "Crozier" explained that a cross was part of the customary attire
and for an archbishop it is to include a cross. The conflicting issue here is that the archbisop
did not choose to include the cross on his pastoral stall until the
eleven hundreds or the twelfth century Common Era.

So, you see a pastoral staff does not have a cross within its design while the Crozier does have.

The pastoral staff originally and even still to this time consists of a round curled head that is meant
to resemble a shepherd's staff. Another thing to note about the crozier and the pastoral staff are
who will be using which one in their duties.

It is the archbishop who uses a crozier and a biship who uses a pastoral staff, even in the current
times.

Signed:

R.W. Elliot

Date:

September 16th, 1850

Location:

Cheltenham
▪▪▪▪▪

The Staffordshire Giant by Parsons

From: Volume
II, Page 135

In the front of the book, the note left by correspondent
C.H.B. is not correct. The two men who were servants to King James
I, Walter Parsons and William Evans, are misrepresented here. It was
actually Walter Parsons who first served as porter to the king, and,
secondly William Evans was porter to the next reign.

If you were
to reach for Fuller's account of these men you would discover a better
and more accurate portrayal of their services under the crown.

You
will see in Fuller's book that Walter Parsons was born n Staffordshire
County where he originally apprenticed as a smith. He became so statuesque
in his height that a special opening was formed for him in the ground
so he could handle working with the others (or maybe so the others
could better work with him). After he worked like this for a while,
he was propositioned by the king to stand at the gates as his porter,
The king that it was highly favorable that the tall man stand at the
tall gates and be his porter. He was also strong, and well proportioned,
which delighted the king. He had other attributes such as distinctive
valor and temperment, quite a noble catch really. This Walter Parsons
could easily take the other servants under his arms literally and
bid them what to do with his great size and strength. There has not been a Law-suit in the Parish
since he arrived. If any quarrel arises they go to him for a decision. If they do not accept
his judgment, which only happened once or twice at most, they appeal to me. At his first settling
with me, I made him attend of all the sermons, and only pleaded that he would pronounce one
of them in the Pulpit on Sunday.
 It is comprised of two main dialects; which, though
partaking both of the above general name, differ so greatly as to almost call them two completely
separate languages. Books are printed and published in both of them; and each, though it be
universally understood in its respective district, is yet sub-divided into almost as many
secondary dialects as there are villages in which it is spoken. These dialects differ a little
bit, but only in pronunciation. One of the main dialects, which is spoken in the Engadine
is by the inhabitants called Ladin. It admits of some variation, even in the books, according
as they are printed either in the upper or the lower part of this province. Their printed
version of the Bible is in the dialect of the lower Engadine; which is understood perfectly in the
upper part of the province. The other dialect, which is the language of the Grey, or Upper.
League, is distinguished from the former by the name of Cialover and I must here make an observation
in saying that some of the most inaccessible parts of this latter district, there are some villages
situated in the narrow valleys, called Rheinwald, Cepina in which a third language is spoken.
This language is more similiar to German than to either of the aforementioned dialects.
It is absolutely impossible to decipher the origin of a language and
the progress of said language without figuring out the revolutions
that could have contributed to its variations.

This is exactly the case in the present instance. I shall shortly summarize the main events
which may have affected the language of the Grisons, because I strongly believe that they are
related by authors of approved veracity.
Ambigatus, the first king of the Celtic Gaul upon record, who about 400 years before Christ, governed
the whole country that was, at the time, situated between the Alps and the Pyrenaean mountains, sent
out two formidable armies under the command of one of his nephews. One of his nephews, named
Segovisius, forced himself into Germany. The other, Bellovisius, fought his way into Italy
as far as the settlements of the Tuscans. Today, his path would have taken him through most of
the country and towards Lombardy.
These, and several other swarms of invaders whom constructed Milan,
Verona, Brescia, and several other considerable towns.

They also governed these towns with such tyrannic sway, that most of the principal families
left the towns with the best part of their effects and attendants in order to go to steepest
mountains of the Alps
The motive behind their leaving procured them a favourable reception from the original inhabitants
of that inhospitable region.
The new adventurers had no sooner climbed over the highest precipices, but thinking themselves
secure from the pursuits of their rapacious enemies, they fixed in a valley which, from its great
fertility in comparison of the country they had just passed, they called Domestica.
They intermingled themselves with the old inhabitants of the villages, and built some towns
and many castles, whose present names manifestly speak of their origin. Soon after though, they
spread over the whole country. This country was named Rhaetia, a name they got from their leader. They
then introduced a form of government similar to their own in which a Laertes or president along
with twelve Lucumones or jurors, determine all causes, both civil and criminal and Livy, wanted
them to retain none of their ancient customs, yet allowed that they continued the use of their
language, a languaged that was already somewhat skewed by a mixture of the language of the
Aborigines.
 The Chysotype

Sir John Herschel modified Mr. Talbot's method and called his process the Chrysotype. He informed
the Royal Society of his improvement in June of 1843. 

When one of these elm forests left by the woodsman, and is seen standing alone in the clearing,
is presented to our view one of the most elegant and beautiful of all tree shapes.
The rows of willows, so common indeed on the side where the road passes over a wet meadow, offering
the most common examples of the ways Pollard. Some of these willows, having escaped the woodsman
cut newspaper, have become noble standards, emulating the Oak in
the greatness of his strong arm extends giant on the road.

Most of them, however, since the crop that have suffered repeated, have a round head, long,
thin branches that grow off the tip of the decapitated stem.
My comments relate to the trees so far considered as individual objects, but do not exhaust the
reader's patience by extending them further, but there are many other relationships that can
be treated. In any light to them, we found that deserve attention as the fairest ornaments of
nature, and the items they should be held sacred for its importance
to our welfare and happiness.

The more we study, the more we look forward to their conservation, and the more convinced of the
necessity of using some active means to effect this purpose. He has a narrow view, but its importance,
which only takes into account the economic value of plant and animal life. The painter has always
made them a particular branch of study, and the poet understands his advantage in increasing
the impact of its descriptions, and believed to be the gifts of Providence
blessed the earth to make a beautiful residence and sanctify our affections.

The heavenly bodies affect the soul with a deeper sense of creative power, but the trees, like
flowers, are used to get closer to the bosom of nature, which represent
the beauty of his work, and the wonders of this wisdom that does not
see, and becomes, in our search for him, a perpetual source of joy.

Victor and Jacqueline.

[Completed].
VII.

The three days passed. And the progress of each hour was marked by passing by the citizens of
Meaux. Leclerc, and the doctrines he suffered, fills the people's thinking, was his theme
of discourse.

Wonder softened in pity; disbelief was prompted by his wounds to
cruelty, faith transfigured, as he, followed by the howling crowd
endured the pain of faith.

Some men looked with amazement that worship would become, some took refuge with surprise that
the study and conviction. There were tears and joy, the solemn joy and execration, in its train.
The mother of Leclerc followed with his fearless testimony, "Blessed be the Lord Jesus Christ
and his witnesses!"
 Southerly winds begin in April, bringing with theme the wet season,
heavy storms, including thunder, lightning, and even tornadoes.

By September, the winds begin to come from east-north-east, bringing
clear weather.

I have observed this change of wind at other sites, but the change
of weather that comes with it is particular to this location of Bahia.

It is unlike other locations I have observed in the tropics at similar latitudes. In those latitudes,
the dry season begins in April, and the wet season begins in October
or November, rather than the wet season in April and fairer weather
in September.

The seasons are reversed, from the Northern latitudes to the Southern
latitudes of Brazil, and the rainy season is a month shorter.

When the fairer weather comes, they can begin to cut their sugarcane
here.

I confirmed that the cutting of sugarcane begins in September here,
which conflicts with what I had been told before, that the sugar can
cutting began in July.

 

ONCE AGAIN HE THOUGHT THAT IT WAS A CLEVER THING THAT FAIR MEN SHOULD
FIX IN OUR FORCE.IN THAT FORCES THERE ARE WELL VERSED SOLDIERS AND
UNIONS WHO THOUGHT THAT IT WAS NOT A CLEVER THING.ALL THE SOLDIERS
IN THAT FORCE THOUGHT THAT MR.LINCOLN WAS RESIDING TOO FAST AND TOO
FAR,BUT EVENTS SCATERED IT.BUT NOW ALL ACEPTED THAT HIS DOINGS WAS
RIGHT.HERE IS AN EXAMPLE BY PROVING THAT HIS DOINGS WAS GOOD TO THE
SOLDIERS WHO THOUGHT THAT HIS DOINGS WAS BAD.GREATELY AS THEY WERE
AGAINST ABRAHAM LINCOLN,HE WAS OPPOSING TO THE ENLISTMENT OF COLOURED
SOLDIERS,I SAY TO YOU THAT I HAVE NEVER HEARD OF EVEN A SINGLE AND
PERFECT UNION MAN WHO IS IN THE ARMY OR OUT OF IT WHO FORBITTEN HIS
PARTY REGARDING WITH THE DIFFERENCE ALONG WITH MR.LINCOLN

 

The downfall of the Tories and the degradation of Prior began on August 1, 1714. Although he had
been summoned he could not return because the debts that he had gotten into and could not pay back
by March notwithstanding the fact that his old friend Montague was
now the head of the Treasury.

However he was summoned on 25th March by a warrant but was forced
to live in his own house under the custody of the messenger until
he had been examined and cleared by a committee of the Privy Council
whose chairman was Mr. Walpole and Lord Coningsby, Mr. Stanhope and
Mr. Lachmere were the principal interrogators.

The printed account of the interrogation is quite interesting and
belies the overblown attitude of the committee members who had obviously
been elevated due to recent authority.

The account shows the committee members as asking unclear and sinister
questions and writing down answers quite different from those that
were given in reply to the questions.

Prior confesses that he was overwhelmed by the members’ arrogance and he signed things he
should not have signed.

The oath was administered by Boscawe, a Middlesex Justice who wrote down attestation but on
the wrong side of the paper!

Very cleverly they all wanted to find some charge against him and
asked him as to who was present when the preliminary papers were signed
at Prior’s house.

But prior avoided answering the question by saying that he could
not remember if the Earl of Oxford or the Duke of Shrewsbury was absent
and thus perplexed the committee members because the answer did not
provide them with any accusation against either and failed to incriminate
Prior.

Prior comments if anything could be more preposterous than to ask
him a question by answering which, he would prove himself to be a
traitor.

And he says that he did right by not trusting their ‘solemn’
promise not to let anything he said incriminate him because only five
hours later they breached their ‘solemn’ promise!

However, Prior owned up to the fact that at that time he was present there and he leaves it
to his friends to judge whether he was right or wrong in doing this. After Prior had signed
the paper, the chairman of the committee Walpole told him that the committee was not satisfied
with his behavior nor could it make a favorable recommendation about
the examination to the House of Commons and that the committee members
now thought that a harsher confinement was necessary to be made for
Prior.

Prior says that Boscawen the justice intervened here as the moralist
and Conings played a very sympathetic Christian but both played their
roles rather awkwardly.

Then the messenger in whose custody Prior was to be placed was called and harshly asked by
Conings whether his house had bars and bolts. The messenger replied in the negative at which Conings
was visibly angered and said to him that ‘the prisoner must be
securely imprisoned for it was a matter of national importance and
the escape of the prisoner would have serious consequences for the
custodian’.

Prior said this showed that they had already prepared their report and the examination was a farce
and had been conducted merely to find proofs to support their allegations.

 At the beginning by these book the argument cost chanced that
whenever alone hands coulded at affairs otherwise by the agency they at once broadly act,
an act by our most lurid evilnesses would either amend themsleves or appearance themselves
case to easy excreting or aspirant decrease. Amid this inquities an real cardinal matcless are
the defensive towards the critique by our existent arrange and the naif disposition to assort
critics for foes by club. 

Colonel John E. Tourtelotte then entitled to promotion to the Seventh Cavalry, a range where you can
be sure of a command honorable.
The only remaining field assistant was Colonel John M. Bacon, who had ignored, even in their
personal relationship to me.

He was then a captain of the Ninth Cavalry, but with almost a certainty
for promotion to be higher in the seventh inning before my official
retirement date, which turned out to be.

The last two accompanied me to St. Louis, and stayed with me until the end. They have previously
completed the withdrawal of my family to San Luis, and after completing my last trip to the
Pacific, I wrote the following letter:

U.S. ARMY HEADQUARTERS, WASHINGTON, DC, 8 october 1883
Hon R. T. Lincoln, Secretary of War.
SIR: By Act of Congress approved June 30, 1882, all army officers retired on reaching the age
of 64. If I live, it will reach that age on February 8, 1884, but since that period of years,
is not suitable for the necessary changes to my retirement, I thought
in anticipating the event with several months to allow the President
to meet with these changes in a more convenient season of the year
and also for my successor in office before installing the next Congress.

I therefore request permission to share the command of Army Lieutenant-General Sheridan in the first
days of November 1883, and order to my home in St. Louis, Missouri, there to await the date
of my retirement legal and so long I must have much correspondence about the war and official
matters, I also pray to take advantage of me for a time to present my two field assistants, JE Tourtelotte
colonels and JM Bacon.
Other of my staff, ie. Garden and Colonels OM Poe JC Tidball, has already been assigned their own
rights for military service branches, engineers, and artillery. Everyone should have the rank and
pay as aides de camp until February 8.1884. Not later than one day in November to complete all
official reports, and I think he can surrender the army to my successor
in good shape and condition, and always in all ways and was distributed
to the best interests of the country. Lower back, groundwork of follow,
and wing plumage fair sulphur-yellow. Under components very lightweight buff dark, very powerfully
streaked. Range -- North America generally. Most widespread in north latitudes. Winters south
to the Gulf of Mexico. 

She cried because she has no children.

Miss Woppit is charmed.

The camp was new then, and Three-fingered Hoover and I were among those with a claim to parts of
the mountain. The population of the area were quiet and orderly, despite the disorder in the camp
and in '81 when the number of inhabitants reached 800. It was decided that Red Cross Mountain
would need a city government, and a mayor, marshal and municipal
officers should be found. The candidates for each post were friendly
with one another, and the most popular were allowed to prevail in
the brisk but cheerful campaign. 

Jim Woppit however was elected
as city marshal largely because of the number of important men who
were in love with his sister. EVEN THOUGH THERE ARE FEWER CHILDREN THEY ARE STRONGER
(the year 1920).

THESE CHILDREN WILL BRING A REVOLUTION TO YOUR PLANET THAT WILL END BY DESTROYING YOUR THREADBARE
DOGMATISM WITH THEIR ORIGINALITY AND ESOTERIC TENDENCIES. Theird tendencies will be evidenced
by the recent failure of the Interchurch movement. It has been proven that your planet cannot
accompkish anything thing without the raising immense ammounts of
currency.

It is not money that accomplishes anything, the real work
is of PERSONAL SERVICE. He did not want the risk of proving the law of 1820 invalid, but did not mind
it being repealed. But he worried about directly repealing the Missouri Compromise, because
he had declared it sacred. He especially worried about what would happen in Illinois and in the
North, which held strong Puritanical beliefs that were at times obtrusive. The Southern states
would welcome the retraction of the Missouri Compromise, although they did not directly demand
it. The speed with which it needed to be done was hard to determine.
The Missouri Compromise was printed in the Washington Sentinel on January 2nd and had twenty sections.
It was printed again on January 10th with an additional section.

This section stated that slavery in the territories would be left to the citizens of the territories,
and asked that the Supreme Court take all appeals related to the titles of slaves and questions
of personal freedom, and also declared that the Fugitive Slave Law be in effect in the territories
as well as the states. This dramatic change in the form and spirit of the Compromise was explained
as a printing error - accidentally omitted by the copyist in the original printing.
On January 16th, Kentucky Senator Dixon asked for an amendment retracting the Missouri Compromise.
On January 17th, Sumner gave notice of his approval of the amendment. Now, this question could
no longer be avoided. When Dixon asked for his amendment, Douglas, annoyed, went to Dixon
and asked him to withdraw the amendment.

However, Dixon refused to do so. Douglas then called Dixon and took him out for a talk. They
discussed the Nebraska bill as well as the amendment. As a result of this talk, Douglas told him:
"I have become perfectly satisfied that it is my duty...to cooperate with you...in securing the
repeal of the Missouri Compromise restriction. It is due to the South...to the Constitution..to that
character for consistency which I have heretofore labored to maintain. The repeal will produce
much stir and commotion in the free States...This proceeding may end my political career. But, acting
under the sense of duty which animates me, I am prepared to make
the sacrifice."

Senator Dixon was touched by Douglas's statement, and declared in reply: "Sir, I once recognized
you as...a mere party manager, selfish and intriguing. I now find you a warm hearted and sterling
patriot. Go forward in the pathway of duty as you propose, and, though the whole world desert
you, I never will."
Now that Douglas had decided on this course of action, Cass became ready to step into power
if Douglas failed. Douglas was walking on thin ice, where one misstep would be extremely costly.
The North was already waiting in opposition, and would be extremely harsh on him if he supported
the repeal. 

Their government showed clear superiority: chieftainship was determined by health and popularity,
not by birthright. Without the approval of the Band Council, however, the chieftain could accomplish
little.
 

Bernardo: Hello there, Horatio! You quaver and are blanched, and so on. This is quite natural, for
one cannot assume, that any person, although he endured so much with fortitude, could see such
a bizarre sight, so startling to human experience, without some disturbance of his composure,
even as the courage of his mind coerces him to overcome it. Pg. 228. Horatio: With God as my
Witness, I might not have believed this, if it were not for the astute and usual corroboration
of my own eyes. Fishes can escape through the holes.
Fish nets cannot last throughout the a whole season, as the bottom rots away and the fishes
escapes. The postion of the nets were reversed until autumn and the upper part which is above
the water being stronger, it is now placed at the bottom. The above method was expensive and
not secure, but the wooden racks were heavy and secure.
The salmon which were placed in this enclosure had to be transported overland for about 3 to 5
miles. The sudden change from salt water to fresh water of the river seem unfavorable, as well
as the summer heat in the month of August being above 70 degrees Fahrenheit, but the transportation
had proved to be satisfactory. This type of enclosure is in use since 1870 at Dead Brook, Bucksport.
The location is in a gently running stream bordered by marshy ground, with gravel and mud in the
bottom, crowded by aquatic vegetation. Water is mainly supplied by two small lakes in the hills,
and the water is cleaner than the average Maine rivers.The greatest depth in the enclosure
is around 8 feet, but most of the enclosure's depth is 3 to 5 feet. The stream is from 2 to 4 rods,
and the enclosed area is 2,200 feet. Barriers in the form of wooden gratings retain the fish
and it facilitates fast and easy cleaning by the stream. Better results were expected from this
enclosure, but have not been realized.

The percentage of fish dying in confinement has been greater, about 25% of those introduced,
notwithstanding that the slamon were transported from a distance of 7 miles instead of being
carted in tanks. The cause of the trouble has not being found out yet, but there is some good
reason regarding the transfer of the fish from the place from which
they were captured.

This view is supported by the fact that nearly all the losses occur within a few weeks after
the introduction of the salmon and almost wholly ceases by the end of July.If the cause of disease
was found in the enclosure, we should expect it to be more fatal after long than short course of
time of the exposure of the fish to it's action, and that with the smaller volume and higher temperature
of August it would be more active than in June and July. I think the above description will give
Dr. Bottemanne sufficient and correct idea of the character of the enclosure that we tried. There are,
however several other points to be discussed and be touched upon to him in possession of the practical
results of our experience. The facilties for the recapture of the fish when the spawning season
approaches must be considered.

We had hoped that the lake in Bucksport village would be a suitable place as a spawning ground
and to induce them to enter the small brooks within the enclosure and our expectations were partially
realized. "I want to start out with Chum. He needs to go to Paddington, and he
needs to get out of the confines of his shell. It's not like he's actually an armadillo," I said
shyly.
The security guard thought about how he would like more money and a suitcase.
 

Carmen, I claim to do it. "
Baltasar paused. "Fiend!" the abbess exclaimed, "what would you of me?"

"I told you," he Villabuena.

"It's no crime, no need to report your conscience, which has recently become more gentle, but
a good action, instead, because it would prevent the daughter of a nobleman from throwing themselves
go on an adventure and rebellion, and gave him her hand to her father that her destiny it is
as yet unaware of the death of Count ..

She will learn it here , and there is no fitter place. consolations of ethics will relieve her
pain. I'll leave her in your custody, and, when the first violence of her grief over, return
to find means to overcome the objections of her boyish suit me, but I was a fool. ", he exclaimed,
interrupting her," to lose in that idle time is so precious Price!

They must have been within sight of the prison lead me to a window where we can observe their approach.
and while watching it, we can finally arrange our .
He took the hand of the abbess, and she guided machinery, to a room inside the door. Go through
two other apartments, they reached an extreme in the wings, from the windows of which look once obtained
for a considerable distance down the valley.

The prospect that presents itself for them to pause before this window
was so enchantingly beautiful, but it seems to produce an effect,
and to exercise a softening influence, even nature depraved and vicious
of Don Baltasar.

At any rate, a full minute went by in which he stood in silence and
contemplation.

Spent by valley views in question, when that pleasant July morning,
the real beauty is almost unparalleled.

The sun, which rose behind the hills to the east, but not exceed
them, throwing his first rays on top of them, and illuminated the
mountain face, bathing their pinnacles in a golden light , while the
steeps of them are still in the dark lower compared.

In the deep valley of the shades of twilight finally seems to still
linger, and the mass of steam rolled in thin gray billows on vegetation
rich and vivid green fields.

The greatest diversity of form exhibited by the cliffs surrounding
it has grown here in the turrets and towers, are spread out into crags,
then again fell into the cliff suddenly empty, the next to their borders
with shrubs, the recesses of their residence and wild flowers of the
most diverse colors, with flower sprays and waved the sweet breath
of the morning.

No less diverse, and as delicately beautiful, ethereal Tints of mountain,
sky, clouds that seemed to convey its green.

 

I say, "yeah right" as England should come to us for anthracite.

If you need a flame without a candle then you need ME.

Ericsson shall be seaworthy in October, and it's owner reduced the price for travelers due to
the new principle.

Violets:

Sent in a tiny box.

cursed winches they are. pick a flower and analyze the depth of your
madness in relation to your depression. cursed they are. they smell,
and they're giving. the ambient breeze, makes me sneeze. but picking
them are thrilling.

 When the hostess brings him bread and butter he sees that the top piece is heat damaged.
What should he do? The correct answer: Politely, he should accept the plate and offer some
of the bread to the hostess. If she does not want any he should offer it to his nearest neighbor.
Once the bad piece of bread is taken he can take the next slice and give the plate back to the
hostess.
A commended answer: He should tell the hostess that, as a hobby, he gathers bread slices from
the houses of nobility. He has an unrivaled collection of bread from the Royal Family and he
would like to add this specimen to his collection.

If she allows he will fold the bread in two and place it in his pocket.
(The downside to doing this is it would be quite messy.)
Wrong answers 1: He would make a rude remark such as noting that it has "escaped from the bread
pudding" then select a different slice.

2: He needs to accept the bread with thanks. If he were to do otherwise it would be offensive.
However, now that he owns the bread he can do what he pleases with
it, including: hiding it in a flower pot or gramophone or feeding
it to the dog.

(If the dog won't eat the bread he could mention that there is no reason a dog should refuse
such amazing food and them throw it away as it has been spoiled by the dog's nose.)
*****

Love's Labor Lost (Inspired by a dark woman who mentioned that all
light skinned girls were untrustworthy) 
Phyllis has a seeking eye,
pale blue, a remarkable feature which informs the stranger that she
is flighty.

Her blonde hair and light skin also hint at her flightiness.  I, who was intended to marry
Phyllis, have been jilted by her scorn, to seek solace in alcohol. How the people cry for missing
such a wedding.  The one who stole my love cannot survive long. I pity him as I do my former rival,
from when my flirtation started.
***** The journalistic touch 1: Yesterday the yacht carrying the Imperial Family and the
Tsar sailed through the British lines after stopping for a meal on the British Flagship. 2: The
loveliness of marriage becomes a filter through which all realities appear as expressions.  3: We
will fondly remember his noble face and white crown. The
Uncollected Writings of Thomas De Quincey (London, 2 vols., 1890) comprises a preface and annotations
by James Hogg; The Posthumous Writings of Thomas De Quincey (2 vols., 1891-1893) were revised
by A. H. Japp ("H. A. Page"), who composed the benchmark biography,
Thomas De Quincey: his Life and Writings (London, 2 vols., 2nd ed.,
1879), and De Quincey Memorials (2 vols., 1891).

See furthermore Arvède Barine, Neurosés (Paris, 1898); Sir L. Stephen,
Hours in a Library; H. S. Salt, De Quincey (1904); and De Quincey
and his Friends (1895), a assemblage revised by James Hogg, which
encompasses term papers by Dr Hill Burton and Shadworth Hodgson.]
(J. R. F.)

FOOTNOTE:

[1] The overhead account has been amended and
magnified in some declarations of detail for this edition.

Its initial scribe, John Ritchie Findlay (1824-1898), proprietor
of The Scotsman bulletin, and the donor of the Scottish National Portrait
Gallery in Edinburgh, had been intimate with De Quincey, and in 1886
released his Personal Recollections of him.

DERA GHAZI KHAN, a village and locality of British India, in the Punjab.

In 1901 the village had a community of 21,700.

There are some handsome mosques in the native quarter.

It instructions the direct advances to the Baluch highlands by Sakki Sarwar and Fort Monro.
For numerous years past both the village and cantonment have been
endangered by the erosion of the stream Indus.

The village was based at the close of the 15th 100 years and entitled
after Ghazi Khan, child of Haji Khan, a Baluch chieftain, who after
retaining the homeland for the Langah sultans of Multan had made himself
independent.

Together with the two other deras (settlements), Dera Ismail Khan
and Dera Fateh Khan, it provided its title to the territorial locality
in the local area and historic renowned as Derajat, which after numerous
vicissitudes came into the ownership of the British after the Sikh
War, in 1849, and was split up into the two localities of Dera Ghazi
Khan and Dera Ismail Khan.

The DISTRICT OF DERA GHAZI KHAN comprises an locality of 5306 sq.
m. The locality is a long slender narrow piece of homeland, 198 m.
in extent, slanting step-by-step from the high grounds which pattern
its western boundary to the stream Indus on the east.

Below the high grounds the homeland is high and arid, usually grade,
but occasionally revolving in sandy undulations, and much intersected
by high ground torrents, 201 in number.

With the exclusions of two, these creeks dry up after the rainfall,
and their leverage is only sensed for a couple of miles underneath
the hills.

The to the east piece of the locality is at a grade adequately reduced
to advantage by the floods of the Indus.

A barren tract intervenes between these zones, and is after the come to of the high ground creeks
on the one hand and of the Indus on the other.

Although liable to large extremes of warmth, and to a very scanty
rainfall, the locality is not unhealthy.

The community in 1901 was 471,149, the large most being Baluch Mahommedans.

The primary trade items are wheat and indigo.

The only manufactures are for household use. There is no trains in the locality, and only 29
m. of metalled road. The Indus, which is nowhere spanned inside the locality, is navigable
by native boats.

 

Rarely does truly great art fail to become known. Dickens, Thackeray, Tennyson, and Tolstoy,
the truly popular authors of the 1800's, related to their public.

The best artist has pressing within himself something of great magnitude
that he simply must share; he really feels he has no choice in the
matter.

He does not try to hide his message behind great obscure symbolism or hard to understand literary
elements; he states his case honestly and forthrightly.

Like a woman in labor, he struggles hard and sometimes painfully
to bring his product to life; he cannoy rest until his work is done
and with as much simplicity of speech and honesty of message as he
can manage.

He is not doing this for altruistic purposes, but really for selfish ones. His ideas are to big
for him to hold and, like the full-term baby, must begin to live apart from him. Art is about sharing
emotion and, as such, should not require lengthy explanation to be understood. Art is not theoretical
in nature, but rather the product of great thought, observation, and examination. Theory neither
gives it life nor sustains its life. Therefore, any art exhibit that requires extensive written
explanations as to its true meaning defeats itself.
That is not to say that all art will be understood by all people.

Individual groups within a society, having their own common experience, may have art that speaks
to them and to no one else. This is perfectly acceptable. If, however, this society wishes
to share its art, and therefore its emotions, with outside groups, they must translate their
work into a more universal language so as to be understood.
So then it is a good thing that some have begun to recognize the importance of society as opposed
to individual idulgence. There is a group in France made up of authors and thinkers who are
called Unanimists. They prefer to identify themselves within small populations that are connected
not by appearance or language by what they deeply believe. Though they tried to establish a
community, they were not successful.

They see themselves as part of a small group with similar convictions, not as a group that
wishes to conquer others and force them to conform to their ways nor as a group who seeks to
find success in material possessions. Their motto could well be "il buvait l'indistinction."
Those in the group see the group as their reality whether "the group" refers to something as
small as a family unit or as large as perhaps a town. To them life and unity are infinitely
sacred. Their religious faith is Christian, but they do not espouse self-denial, a fact which
sets them apart from the artists of an earlier era. Like Saint Peter when he was told by God
to "call thou nothing common or unclean," the Unanimists choose to look at life in a new, fresh,
and heretofore, forbidden way.

Most importantly, the Unanimist embraces the truth that "no man liveth unto himself." He is only a part
of a whole. As has already been discussed, the purpose of true art is to speak and share of
emotion. Some of the most deeply felt and complete emotions are those felt by one person for
another.

Understanding another and feeling with him intensifies life; coldness
and lack of caring negates life.

Love therefore is the law of the Unanimist.
Such love and faith which result in life and in an embracing of all
of nature was beautifully expressed by the Indian poet Tagore and
in the same way an embracing of all humankind by M. Vildrac when wrote
the "Book of Love," also known as "Livre d'Amour."

In his "Commentary," he shares how the poet was preparing once more
to write, or rather to re-write, the same tired story of his life-
new packaging, but same story.

All of the sudden he sees his character for what it is.

He feels stifled by the revelation and feels the need to flee into
the streets, outside of the dusty monument he has erected to himself,
and out into the larger life of his fellow creatures.

He wants to live, not apart from them any longer, but with his fellow
man, by his fellow man, and within his fellow man.

"I am tired of living my life inside myself; I am tired of the journeys I take within myself.
I no longer crave an importance I invent by my pen or a beauty I
myself have invented.

"I am ashamed of the dishonesty that has been my work and of allowing
my work to lie to me.

I no longer will be content with burning incense to the very small
master of myself."

 

He did not receive the answer he desired from the men of Ulster and, thus, proceeded up to the
rampart of Emain.

Again, he did not receive the desired answer from the Ulstermen.

Actually, it was taboo for the Ulstermen to speak in front of their
king and, in turn, taboo for their king to speak in front of his druids.

Thus, Sualtaim proceeded onward to the "Flagstone of the hostages" in Emain Macha.
 Having proceeded with the committee to Mr. Harrison’s lodgings, Mr. Rotch
asked his demand. In turn, Mr. Harrison made it clear that without consulting the comptroller he would
not be able to give a reply, but would give a final reply at the office ours the following
morning. There is not a Mary-ache to be found in a cask of scrapple."

Subsequently we had this second thought:

"An honorable recipe is this scrapple, but don't gulp down three pieces and then start work
with them on your stomach. That will surely result in a tummy ache!

"P.S. I wish to God that you would have another look at England, and soon. It is an impressive country;
no doubt whatsoever. Ancient, too, I think."

Rudyard Kipling proposed that Bok should christen his home in Merion, "Swastika." Bok, in turn,
inquired as to what Kipling knew about the mystic symbol:

"There exists a gargantuan tome (I have since forgotten the title, but the Smithsonian should
know)," he replied in a return letter, "regarding the Swastika (pronounced Swas-ti-ka, rhyming
with 'car's ticker'), in literature, art, religion, canon, and so on. I think there exist two
types of Swastikas, this [figure] and this [figure],but which is which I can't really be sure
of. Hindu traders open their annual account ledgers with an inscribed Swastika so as to invoke
'an auspicious beginning', and it seems that all cultures of the earth have at some time made
use of it. It really is an endlessly treated subject, and some gentleman at the Smithsonian will
be deeply into it, no doubt. In any case, this symbol on the door
sill or the hearth should safeguard you from fire, flood, and bandits.

"You should have by now received a Swastika-shaped door-knocker, which I am hoping will be compatible
with the general design of your new house and its new name. I had a local blacksmith make it;
and you will notice that it has my initials inscribed into it -- I hope that you will have yours
put upon it as well, so that this story will be fini.

"We have settled in over here in Cape Town, feasting on strawberries
in January, and grousing about the hot weather, which in the last
couple of days has been a bit more than we spoiled folk are accustomed
to; we are talking about 70° in the night.

However, this is a beautiful land, no argument, and the hydrangeas are just incredible! Imagine four
whole acres of the things on a hillside within view of our house, and in full bloom!"

Bok had taken a trip to the Panama Canal site before it was finished,
and had conversed with the project people, at all levels, who were
in process on the construction, inquiring of them their opinion about
President Roosevelt's attitude of "digging the Canal first and discussing
it later." He wrote of the outcome of his talking to Colonel Roosevelt,
and got back the following:

"I will never discard your letter, because
I want my offspring and theirs to be able to read it after I have
passed on. I feel the same exact way as you do regarding the Canal.
It is the noblest contribution I could make to the Nation; and even
though I don't believe my fellow countrymen value it at this moment,
I am very happy to know for certain that the men who are working on
it in fact do, for they are the ones who have done, and are doing,
this monumental job. The far reaching ancestry of the guitar plays a harmony to the progress
of human culture. A predecessor to the modern guitar was familiar, even, to the ancient Greeks.
Women of Hellenic households, and later, of the Latin Domus, would often play these instruments.
In various forms, the guitar has been played across Europe throughout history. Early European
lutes, for example, are still preserved today. Beuatifully ornate examples can be admired at
museums. The Albert Victoria Museum houses an immitation of a classical lyre adorned with the
mask of Apollo, in the fashion of those played by the ancients. This replica was used by a
member of the Prince Regent's Band at the Royal Aquarium, Brighton.

Another string instrument, appreciated in antiquity and still found
in British homes, is the harp.

Her bright melody can charm after dinner guests in an intimate drawing
room, or captivate an auditorium.

The Vikings told legend's of the harp's song upon their return from the British Isles. They
spoke of ethereal mermaids rising from the sea, who sitting on the foam-lashed rocks, would
coax with delicate finger tips the most sumptuous songs from their
harps.

The tales of the Vikings' are probably drawn from the south west referring, most likely to the
Welsh harp. A similar example, the Irish Harp is highly coveted by modern American collectors.
Ancient harps can still be found in this region.

There are other minor instruments with rich histories. Knowing of their progression through
time, and across the world, nuances their intrinsic delight. Those passed on over genereations
broaden their score with each hand that plays them and their unique song echos eternal.

XVI PLAY AND SPORT CHAPTER XVI PLAY AND SPORT

For the labours of
man, there has always been balance in recreation. The mind, though
weary of work, is set in motion again when it seeks amusement. Even
babes in the nursery, in the early stages of cognition, are presented
with tasks both edifying and enjoyable. To work and to play, it appears,
are two sides of the same coin. 

Lizzie told me what you wanted me for...I noticed your clit is engorged and wet. Mary is going to
lick your pussy and I'm going to fill your hot pussy with my dick. Instruction shall be limited to University members only who report
directly to the "Grand Master". Therefore each instructor, tutor, and administrator must be
sanctioned by the University.

Additionally, the University oversees every facet of the satellite institution, whether it be
parochial or secular. This manipulation is not limited to acceptance of the instructors, but
also the curriculum and the extra-curricular activities, with an enforced conformity which
in essence, makes the satellite schools cloned offspring of the parent
school with no room for individuality or improvisation. Magnetite is always present. 
These
rocks befall within the Carlingford district within Ireland, within the Lizard district of
Cornwall, the Inner Hebrides (Mull, Skye, etc.) of Scotland, and within Saxony.
3. DIORITE.--A crystalline-granular compound of plagioclase and hornblende with magnetite. When quartz
is show it becomes (according towards the habitual British acceptation) a syenite; but this
look is gradually granting site towards the German definition of syenite, which is a compound
of orthoclase and hornblende; and it may be better towards denominate the flavor as quartz-diorite.
The diorites are ample as sheets and dykes amongst the ageing palæozoic and metamorphic rocks,
and are occasionally exceedingly rich within magnetite. Mica, epidote, and chlorite are also
show as accessories.
The rock befalls within North Wales, Charnwood Forest, Wicklow, Galway,
and Donegal, and the Highlands of Scotland.

There can be little doubt that amongst the metamorphic rocks of Galway, Mayo, and Donegal
the great beds of (often columnar) diorite were originally augitic lavas, which possess since undergone
transformation.
4. DIABASE.--It is very improbable whether "Diabase" must towards be regarded as a distinct
species of igneous rock, as it seems towards be merely an amended
flavor of basalt or dolerite, within which chlorite, a lowly alteration-product,
has been grew via the decay of the pyroxene or olivine of the original
rock.

It is a convenient name for consume within the field when doubt befalls
as towards the actual nature of an igneous rock.

Melaphyre is a name granted towards the very blackness flavors of amended augitic lavas, rich
within magnetite and chlorite.
5. PORPHYRITE (or quartzless porphyry).--A plain flavor of felstone-porphyry, consisting of a felspathic
base with distinct crystals of felspar, with which there may be others
of hornblende, mica, or augite.

The colour is loosely red or purple, and it weathers into red clay,
within contrast towards the greatly acid or silicated felsites which
climate into whitish sand.

6. SYENITE.--As reported above, this name has been variously applied. Its derivation is from Syene
(Assouan) within Egypt, and the granitic rocks of that district were branded "syenites," below the
supposition (now known towards be erroneous) that they disagree from
ordinary granites within that they were assumed towards be calm of
quartz, felspar, and hornblende, instead of quartz, felspar, and mica.

 Imagine
you want to build a house. You ask the most obvious question: "How much will it cost to build?"
The contractor pauses. He deliberates. Perhaps he twitches ever so slightly. That single moment
of hesitation is all it takes, and although five minutes ago he may
have seemed the most honorable of men, your perception immediately
changes.

Do you trust him? Do you believe he's fit for the job?
 A representative of the Chemists and Druggists' Union felt that
travel abroad was a bad idea and that it was unwise to underestimate the severity of colds. Staying
at home, treating this ailment with speed and consistency, would be the best course of action. It was
clear to him that any knowledgeable person would soon bring the comments
of the previous speaker into disrepute.

A reputable physician was widely known to claim that a colds nemesis was aspirin, while also
stating that there was no greater collaborator than alcohol. Contrary to this, Sir Tablloyd George
believed, from experience, that nothing cured a cold better than a touch of hot water, whiskey
and lemon before bed. It is worth noting that George, a well known physician himself, thought
quinine had some value but in this case aspirin should be treated
like the plague.

 Then she realized the number of the deceased and noted that although
twenty knights had taken flight, he had slain fourscore of them.

She was very grateful stating "God bless thee, O Sherkan!

The cavaliers may well glory in the like of thee."
 Thus, even presently
the coach has taken us to the doorstep of Herr Kempinski's exhibition
hall of comestibles, covering the area from Leipzigerstrasse to Krausenstrasse,
and making up what appears to be the most expansive Senate and House
of Representatives of the gut to be found in the seven commonwealths.

 But ejecting to give an account assertion of the diagrams and portraits that he organised
where in the workshop of Ridolfo, numerous of which were sent abroad and numerous stayed in
the city, I shall articulate simply of those which he painted after he was somewhat the associate
and rival of Ridolfo than his disciple, and of those that he executed after he was so much the associate
of Andrea del Sarto, that none was more dear to him than to suppose that master in his workshop,
in lead to learn from him, demonstrating him his works and asking his opinion of them, so as
to escape such faults and defects as those men regularly drop into any person who do not demonstrate
their task to any other craftsman, but trust so much in their have punishment that they would
somewhat incur the censure of all the world after those works are wrapped higher, than appropriate
them by method of the signals of tender friends.

One of the first item that Domenico executed was a very adorable diagram of Our Lady for Messer
Agnolo della Stufa, any person who has it in his Abbey of Capalona
in the locality of Arezzo, and retains it very dear for the great
diligence of its execution and the beauty of its colouring.

He painted another diagram of Our Lady, no smaller diagram adorable
than that one, for Messer Agnolo Niccolini, now Archbishop of Pisa
and a Cardinal, any person who saves it in his lodging on the Canto
de' Pazzi in Florence; and equally another, of similar elevation and
excellence, which is now in the possession of Filippo dell' Antella,
at Florence.

In another, which is come seal three braccia in height, Domenico
organised a full-length Madonna with the Child between her knees,
a tiny S. John, and another head; and this diagram, which is held
to be one of the best works that he executed, since there is no sweeter
colouring to be supposed, is at the prevailing day in the possession
of Messer Filippo Spini, Treasurer to the bulk Illustrious Prince
of Florence, and a gentleman of superb spirit, any person who takes
much pleasure in works of painting.

Among other portraits that Domenico organised from the life, which
are all adorable and also good resemblances, the bulk adorable is
the one which he painted of Monsignore Messer Piero Carnesecchi, at
that time a marvellously handsome youth, for whom he also organised
numerous other diagrams, all very adorable and executed with much
diligence.

In like manner, he portrayed in a diagram the Florentine Barbara,
a renowned and bulk lovely courtesan of that day, much beloved by
many no smaller diagram for her fine way of life than for her beauty,
and principally because she was an excellent musician and sang divinely.

But the best task that Domenico ever executed was a many diagram wherein he organised a life-size
Madonna, with numerous angels and tiny boys, and a S. Bernard any person who is writing; which diagram
is now in the hands of Giovanni Gualberto del Giocondo, and of his
brother Messer Niccolò, a Canon of S. Lorenzo in Florence.

The same master organised many other diagrams, which are distributed
among the lodgings of people, and in individual numerous wherein may
be supposed a half-length figure of Cleopatra, causing an asp to injury
her on the breast, and others wherein is the Roman Lucretia slaughter
herself with a dagger.

There are also numerous very adorable portraits from life and diagrams by the same hand at
the Porta a Pinti, in the lodging of Giulio Scali, a man whose punishment
is as fine in the subjects of our arts as it is in those of every
other bulk noble and bulk righteous profession.

Domenico executed for Francesco del Giocondo, in a panel for his chapel in the great tribune
of the Church of the Servi at Florence, a S. Francis any person who
is receiving the Stigmata; which task is very sweet and soft in colouring,
and wrought with much diligence.

In the Church of Cestello, throughout the Tabernacle of the Sacrament, he painted couple angels
in fresco, and on the panel of a chapel in the same church he organised
a Madonna with her Son in her arms, S. John the Baptist, S. Bernard,
and other saints.

 He hoped that he had not extended
it hands. When confided with life, would it not create? The plans of the Master of Life himself, might
it not spoil?

Though fire is not life, he now put fire in the image.
When he put fire inside a red glow traveled through and through it.
The clay of which the image was created, the fire dried, and made
the image get an exceedingly furious characteristic. After a few days, the preparations necessary for an assault
were complete and late that evening the column marched forward. As the column departed an courier
rode up at full speed with dispatches from Potemkin. Suwarrow upon learning of the couriers
arrival intuitively knew the nature of the dispatches, and decided to ignore them until the fate
of the enterprise was decided. He ordered his men to fetch his horse and galloped away.  
The
Turks fought valiantly but were ultimately defeated, and Ismail fell into the hands of the Russians.

As Suwarrow's staff praised their leader , the eyes of the Marshal fell upon the courier with
the dispatches from Potemkin.
"Who are you, brother?" said he.
"It is I," replied the courier, "who brought dispatches from Prince Potemkin yesterday evening."

"Ahah!" exclaimed Suwarrow, with affected passion,"you bring me news
from my sovereign!

Suwarrow handed the dispatch to one of his generals and bade him
read it aloud. 
There was deep silence as the dispatch was opened.
Suwarrow and his victorious company listened intently as the general
proceeded to speak every danger which they had courageously overcome. 

The art of playing an instrument is a talent given by nature to a person , and so every beginner
in music , eventhough not so talented in that art, he or she may develop his/her skill. If supplied
properly in order, even the sound of snare drum may be the best music for those interested in that. The
basic quality for any person to become a musician is normal skill with some quiet perception
and power of thinking along with persistence. Being too instinctive and more attentive is not
so important for the beginners. The musician Mandelssohn came in to this music world only by accident.
Likewise, we can say that many musicians might have succeeded in any field ,they entered , as
in the field of music.

Let us take a case of a young woman with normal talent, who wishes to develop her skill in music
and to use it for good service. At the beginning, she must understand whether she is playing
a piano correctly, by playing easy music and confirm herself , her ability to find out fault, if
any. She must accept the fact that music is not gifted to her by God, if she is unable to grasp
her fault, while playing music. She can, ofcourse, develop her hearing power to the music. She
must develop to play music by just seeing the notes, by joining a choir. She must understand
the key , while playing the music. She must take necessary effort to grasp the music and its
notes by closing her eyes. She must train herself by listening to any hymn to understand and
practise the tunes. Playing music in the apt time is the most essential part of training. Particularly,
carelessness and negligence may cause destruction, not only to music, but also to the instrument,
which needs good inspection and command. Rhythmic sensation and timely play may be developed
by playing duets or with partners of accompaniments. The player must examine carefully her
accuracy and time management at every step till she achieve them.
After satisfying these basic qualities, the learning of the instrument
may be started to understand the technical parts and mechanism of
the instrument. The room for
composition occupied the rest of the central edifice and an entire level of the immediately adjacent
structure. To get to the area used by the editors and reporters, one had to pass through a doorway
near Ballantyne's chambers in the northern portion of the space and traverse a few steps downward.
Editors and reporters shared three rooms of identical size there, each one 2.3 by 4 yards. One
of these was the office of Mr. Field himself. Another was for the art critic, whose criticism
of art and drama were, apparently, quite important. And the last one was mine to share with Bates,
who was the editor responsible for collecting content from elsewhere for our publication (not
to be confused with the editor responsible for reading the wire reports that arrived via telegraph,
who had a desk and some space demarcated back in the composition room itself). There was, of course,
additional space in that building on the same level and that was filled by the writers on
the city desk. It was so cramped that if there'd been a fire at the right time of day, the
publication itself would have ceased to exist not only because of the property damage but also
because everyone who worked there would have died in the blaze.

Given the limitations, it was not the sort of place any given reporter or editor could decorate
according to his tastes, but that didn't stop Mr. Field from adding a few personal touches, most
of them stains on the floor and walls in a particular spot he spat his chewing tobacco. He
also had a cabinet with small drawers, library style, into which he filed information clipped
from the publication alphabetically, typically organizing whatever was printed about a particular
public figure under that person's name. And he had weights, bowling pins, and workout equipment
on the floor which, though he did not use it to anyone's knowledge, the custodial staff was
not allowed to move or even to touch. Above his escritoire he had a big section of sheet metal
that he used as a gong to make noise when he wanted something, or, once in a while, to mask
the noise of the furnace and the kid responsible for shoveling coal
into it. The heating system did work, more or less, by the way, and
kept the place from freezing all the way through the cold months. When the colony first started, farming was very
successful. Huge Plantations were built and the results of their prosperity can be seen today
in the palaces and convents of Santo Domingo City.
 The whole area was like
a sea of green and gold. The flowers danced on the top and the only things that harmed them were
the horses, who were hidden behind the blossoms before they trampled all over them. It was the
most gorgeous natural spectacle you could ever imagine.
 

He never happened to secure the male, when the nests contained eggs. But he had a chance to watch
the young ones fed by the female.
Mr. William Brewster observes: “ in Massachusetts, I have found,
in a natural setting, twelve hummers’ nests.

I watched all of nine nests giving not more than an hour or two in each case. I had visited
one three or four times at various hours of the day, another twice and the third once, of the
remaining three nests. Under severe penalty of law, it was illegal for any man to transport
women or prostitutes aboard a vessel of the fleet. Women therefore hired ships of their own and
sailed along with the Navy. It was not uncommon for some of these women to be shipwrecked along
the coast of France by inclement weather.

Don Alonso Perez de Guzman, whose titles included Duke of Medina, Lord of S. Lucar, and Knight
of the Golden Fleece, commanded this powerful Navy, ascending to
the post upon the death of the Marques of Santa Cruz. As a people, are active-minded,
nor industrious, but yield to the influence of climate change, and, following the example offered
by their vast jungle, dense on either side, to accept life as easy as it comes. They are no exception
to the rule that all untutored minds, living in constant communion with any grimness of Nature,
be it mountain giant, a loss of water, or an endless jungle, superstitions are saturated, each
river, every tree, every Rock is the home of an evil spirit, and all the mysterious noises in
the forest are ghostly whispers. Everywhere are signs and signs to warn man of danger or direct
his course, theirs is a life where school is not as vital as the ability to correctly read
sermons "in stones, books in Brooks running. " For them, the world is the patch of jungle that
covers several square miles that you know, distance and bounded by hills, rarely do they get
a broad picture of the surrounding country, the trees in her lap on all sides and mountains
are so difficult to climb and, in addition, infested with demons or "antu," the summit can be
gained only at the risk of the body, and, worse still, the soul.
Many natives live and die never inside a piece of great stories and Malay and Chinese traders
said land beyond the horizon, where white men live, is so incomprehensible
to them that we astronomers give circumstantial accounts of channels
on Mars.

 

Even if one were to assume that the large industrial and corporate
entities would be able and willing to help in an effort toward consolidation,
like their forebears helped Washington, I think it is quite unlikely
that they would find success with the American majority middle class,
which would help, since it seems now that they are against this kind
of effort.

Doubtlessly in part this resistance is a product of fear, as the lower classes have understood
through experience that those in privileged positions have succumbed to nothing except violent
change, and seeing that the only possibility is to violently undermine their oppressors. Of course
there is as well the fact that people are used to keeping things
the way they are, but in my opinion I think people are resistant more
because of the subtle intuition that the easiest way for the majority
to to gain political autonomy and decision making power is to control
the supreme courts, which they are currently attempting to do.

It is not possible to foment a momentous reform of administration as long as the judiciary system
continues to work in the same manner. I therefore believe that the operation of the judiciary
system in the current American political climate is the most present problem facing the populace,
and that it must be addressed before we can make a move toward social balance.
Theodore Roosevelt has had many bitter enemies. His detractors have slandered him regarding his
honesty, his goodness, and his accuity, but it is difficult for them to deny his know-how
with regard to political struggle. Only recently have they begun to deride him on this note,
but many have now questioned his decision to present reform of the courts as one of his two major
platform issues during his third presidential campaign.

I have come to the conclusion that, be it as it may that Roosevelt may have made a mistake in proposing
his particular remedy, the principle that he proposed is correct.
 Brembre was
mayor in 1377 and in 1383 - 85. In London he led the group of King Richard's friends. His public
career is covered in other places. But with regard to his financial transactions, the abstracts following
contain necessary informtion. In September 1377, the king borowed L10,000 from Brembre, Wallworth,
Philipot, and John Haddele (who was a grocery merchant and after that the Mayor of London), among
others, and pledged the crown jewels.
 

The dialects were from the starting of the sixteenth 100 years purposely left to deal with a certain
class of topics, grave as well as comic, and the method which was
therefore evolved verified the identical to all its tasks.

Among other countries a attentive parting of this kind did not happen till a much subsequent
period. The attitude of educated persons as to the communal worth of dialect is completely set
forward in the 'Cortigiano.' There were then individuals, at the starting of the sixteenth 100
years, who purposely kept to the antiquated signs of Dante and the other Tuscan writers of his
time, easily because they were old. Our scribe forbids the use of them entirely in talk, and is
reluctant to allow them even in composing, which he considers a pattern of speech. Upon this
pursues the admission that the best method of talk is that which most resembles good writing.
We can apparently identify the author's feeling that persons who have any thing of significance
to state should form their own talk, and that dialect is certain thing flexible and altering
because it is certain thing living. It is allowable to make use of any sign, although ornate,
as long as it is utilised by the people; neither are non-Tuscan phrases, or even French and Spanish
phrases forbidden, if made-to-order has one time directed them to decisive purposes. Thus care
and understanding will make a dialect, which, if not the untainted vintage Tuscan, is still
Italian, wealthy in blossoms and crop like a well-kept garden. It pertains to the completeness
of the 'Cortigiano' that his wit, his shone manners, and his verse, should be dressed in this
flawless dress.

When method and dialect had one time become the house of a dwelling humanity, all the efforts
of purists and archaists failed to protected their end. Tuscany itself was wealthy in writers
and the first alignment, who disregarded and mocked these endeavors. Ridicule in plenty awaited
the foreign scholar who clarified to the Tuscans how little they appreciated their language.
The life and leverage of a author like Machiavelli was sufficient to clear away all these cobwebs.
His vigorous ideas, his clear and straightforward mode of sign was dressed in a pattern which had
any deserve but that of the 'Trecentisti.' And on the other hand there were too numerous North
Italians, Romans, and Neapolitans, who were thankful if the demand
for purity of method in publications and dialogue was not pushed too
far. Vienna,
sept. 15, 1773.

We have been diong well, thank the great lord! Although we have very much to do, today we have
had to plan to make time to respond to you. I hope you are doing
very well. Dr. Niderl's death caused great suffering and rue. H.A.S.

WORD-SQUARES ANAGRAM

Make a word-square from the letters composing each of the following
four sentences: 1. Do Irish histories make mistakes doctor? 2. Let
their hotel gardener smile. 3. Man's sympathy was needed in the post.
4. Hurray! Peg has a gallant puppy. Then you have a
fine point (with a knitting needle will do well to take a pen) and leaning too hard on the engraving
without knowing all the settings.

You be careful, because an accumulation of powder on the paper as writing paper of the same color
will cause the change will not have to press your fingers over the
engraving.

Now remove the transfer paper and you put the correct address and
is ready to be punched for design patterns.

Lay a couple of layers of velvet or felt that the pattern on the table space, and medium-sized
or tracing wheel with a needle to prick out the pattern, being careful
to follow the outline is fairly close proximity and perforations.

MECHANICAL ENLARGEMENT OF DESIGNS.
Shortcut to the eyes detail, as are artists.

One method is divided into sections and removes the paper to rule the design of large size to
be enlarged in the same class.

Each class attended at all reproduced, copied participate in small classes. Especially for embroidery
designs we should think it would be great.
DRY STAMPING.
This is done by process known as pouncing. Procedure is as follows: pattern (Place rough side)
on the content to be stamped, heavy weight on the corner to keep it from slipping, then the
patterns described below distributor pouncet or rub with the perforations
on the powder material is clearly marked on.

A corner of the pattern can be detected by slightly lifting. The pattern to divert attention
and stamping on a piece of thin paper on it near a hot iron. The powder melts and content patterns
for the gum fastens. Iron as hot as possible without scorching clothes should be. Heat content
should change color, all this and more iron. On hot or humid days of the process if it can be
avoided by any stamping do not. A cool, dry place Keep powder Light-colored powder, the best
to fasten it to the stack or face against the iron grip of the fabric is back with a way of
hammering. French stamping better, but for all the dark stuff. Powder distributor to take on,
a piece of woolen cloth on the bottom is sticking with a tin plate, sprinkle a little powder
on the cloth, and rub the distributor, to look to shake off all the powder you can Tickets will clearly
enough patterns.
TO MAKE A DISTRIBUTOR.

Take a strip of felt right about one inch from an old hat (felt something like a wide strip as
well), roll it tightly into a roll, leaving the flat end, and end on a piece of sand paper
to rub it smooth and even.
TO MAKE BLUE POWDER.
Equal parts of gum damar resin and sufficient only for the blue and
white Persian take.

Mix well together. The other colors are made using chrome for light-colored powder (for yellow),
burnt Sienna, soot, etc., black powder, it improves by adding a little blue.
TO MAKE WHITE POWDER.
Take an ounce of white lead; half ounce gum arabic, impalpable powder, half an ounce of powder
fine white resin. All well mixed.
SUPERIOR DARK BLUE POWDER.

An ounce white, resin glue a half ounces, a half ounce of Prussian
blue sandarac fine powder.

Mix all well. 
FRENCH INDELIBLE STAMPING.  
For all the dark
stuff is the best procedure, in fact, that the blue powder is all
that'll ever need. The process of color is used instead of a way to
powder, and a brush rather than a pouncet. Place pattern on fabric,
smooth side if you (although both sides would work well), pattern
stamping down as weight can. Rub the color on the same perforations,
and the clean lines, will leave sharp and distinctive. After stamping
is done, the pattern should be cleaned immediately. In a case like this, doubt arose in the bystander's minds
as to whose shoulder she would take. They looked on, but realized her voice was permanently
gone.

They assumed they would have to be split amoung them, but the dying woman touched her left
shoulder in onw spastic movement and passed away. 

Yes, it had lengthy exponents everywhere else.

But it Englend, a century before, Dr. Hartley had Created the theorty
of the near and indissoluble dependence of the mind on the brain,
and created a famouse vibration theory of association that still begets
careful thinking.

Then too, belonging in france at the beginning of the century, there
was Dr. Cabanis with his feeling, if in laymans terms "doctrine" that
the brain ingests thoughts and dumps out thought as the stomach digests
good and the liver secretes bile.

In addition, Herbert Spencer's principles of psychology, with its
avowed co-ordination of mind and body and its refreshing theorty of
evolution was created in 1855, and 10 years befor Fechner created
his work.

 As she made that evening's first but not final error and played D-flat
and not D- natural, she spun around on the stool and said to him
with her head still turned: 
I have to tell you, Mr. Armstrong,
that I have feelings for you.

 in this way-- I wonder ther were not among
them some generous enought to pity me--I had nearly gained the door,and
was beginnig to breathe, when I found my path stopped by that particular
young lady of the Cout Whom I have described above.

 When
United States Court of first crime discharged him, he was taken to Lancaster to meet second and
the third.The man and the lawyer followed along with them was that
infamous wretch Kline.

The Devil looked to favor all they undertook and when Ezekiel and thirty others were discharged
from the crime that they never commited adn for which they unneccessarily spent more that three months
in the damp prison. These rascals lodged a warrant in the Lancaster jail and by midnight Kline
and the man claiming to be George's owner arrested him as a fugitive from labor.Meanwhile
the lawyer returning to Philadelphia to prepare the case for trail and awaited for his guilty shameless
partners to arrive and it seemed the climax of George's misfortunes.He was hurried into a wagon,ready
at the door and and was driven at a killing pace to the town of Parkesburg,fearing resque and
compelled to stop the night there as there horses were completely exhausted.  All this took
place during January, where coldest nights were famous for years.On their route, wretches who
had George hancuffed and tied in the wagon,were provided with plenty of liquor and as a result
they were pretty drunk.Their drunkness was to the level where they were really enraged,by the
time they reached public-house. They contradicted an old saying that there is an honor among
the theives; as each one was afraid of the other.

When they were in the bar Kline asked one of his pals: "Sir you can go to sleep. I will take
care of this nigger."

He replied anxiously:"No, I will take care of him myself, you don't
try to fool me here."

Kline heard those remarks and ask him to "Take something", and bottles
of whiskey went empty.

Midst of all that, Kline drew a chair near stove and was soon asleep; might aswell dreaming
of the profits he earned through such hard work. The other walked around till the barkeeper
left to sleep, leaving the hostler to watch for him; The hostler
didn't take long to decide, why no i too have a little rest since
this nigger is asleep and slept after spreading himself out on two
chairs.Wum,the devil and fatigue combined compelled George to show
that it was his time for action now.

He opened one eye first followed by the other and saw the snoring
hostler and looked around him.

In Hope of setting himself free,he rose slowly and kept step to the
deep-drawn snores of the miserables.As Kline was reaching towards
the door, he found the eye of the hostler on him.

Paused Kline knew his fate of being shot instantly dead, if the man
spoke a word.

George decided to stop and asked in a whispering voice: "Sir, would
you like a drink of water", he got No for an answer, and before he
know the man closed his eyes and got lost in slumber.

As mentioned, it was cold and snow covered the ground.George shivered
as he stepped forthe in to the cold night air.

He looked about towards the clouds and them ice covered ground.He trembled but was determine to
set himself free.

He ran until he was 15 miles aways from his drunken claimant and
then stopped at the house of his tired friend to get his handcuffs
removed.

He was successful in getting only one side and then poor fellow continued his grueling journey
towards freedom. after forty some miles,he finally made it frozen,
still and sore the following day.

He was taken good care by his old friends after that tiresome journey
of freedom.

 One must break his power as
a political associate of the Republican Party now--and of the Democratic Party should it make
it to office--and every determined politician in the West will rebel
in opposition to his throne.

Split his power to control the channels of public communication through interested politicians
and profitable agencies, and the feeling of the civilized world will
join with the uprising of the "American movement" in Utah to cause
the downfall of to his tyrannies.

Shatter his union with the illegal trusts and combines of the United States, and his financial
power will cease to be a terror and a threat to the industry and commerce of the intermountain
nation. This very country owes Utah such a modification, for the nation as a whole has been,
in this subject, a chief offender and an advocate of sin.

Former President Theodore Roosevelt, representing the highest office
of the Republic, resided us when our capacity could have won our own
independence in the revolt that was provoked by the voting of Senator
Apostle Reed Smoot.

Given the wrong impression by political and his personal advisers,
the President secured delays in the Smoot inquiry.

He tried to seduce senators from their convictions.

He also certified and endorsed the ambassador from the Kingdom of
God as a competent senator of the United States.

What he did again was he gave the hand of companionship to Joseph, the oppressor of the Kingdom.
He hauled over the coals of our friends and his own, in their fight
for our freedom, by warning them that they were raising the flag of
a religious combat.

He filled the Mormon priests with the conviction that they might carry on immoderately to the
sacrifice of women and children upon the polygamous altar, to the absolute rule of political
principles in the intermountain states, and to the commercial development
of their community in joint venture with the trusts.

The number one policy that President Taft seems to have acknowledged
unimpaired from his forerunner is this very same respect for the command
of the Mormon kingdom.

In his good-natured but wholehearted way he has encouraged and convinced
his co-ordinate leader, the Mormon spiritualist, and extended the
Executive license to the support and inevitable increase of these
religious tyrannies of the Mormon hierarchs which now the people of
Utah, without help, are wholly unable to fight.

And the country owes such a rectification not only to Utah, but also to the nation itself. The
profit-making and financial Plunder bund that is now marauding upon the whole nation is constant
at Washington by the agents of the Mormon house of worship.

The Prophet not only delivers his own subjects up to embezzle; he helps to set free the people
of the entire United States. His senators are not legislative body of a political party; they
are the apparatus of "the Interests" that are his associates. The disgraceful conditions in
Utah are not remote and weird to that state; they are largely the result of nationwide conditions
and they have a general effect.
 His works on the organic structure and physiology of plants are beautifull and
briefly explained and it contains some extremely sharp remarks.

One of his works holding the title "Liber Cosmographicus De Natura
Locorum" belongs to a category of physiography. 

Is it so much the better? Is it true that among the arts, the fiction is a peculiar case, which
is unusually free from from the rules that unite the rest?

A well designed, well balanced novel, really make a very great difference in its power to
please—Is it a fact? If we don’t answer it honestly, it is sophistry to force these rules
upon a novel. It may be otherwise in other arts, and no doubt an irregular statue or an ill-composed
painting, however expertly it may copy life, is a plain offence to
the eye.

Perhaps, this is true for a novel, if the fault is very bad, very marked; yet it would be hard
to say that even so it is necessarily serious, or that a novel cannot elatedly live down the worst
aberrations of this kind. We are familiar with novels which are admitted to be badly constructed,
but are so full of life that it does not appear to matter.

We have to conclude that form, designs, composition; have a rather
different demeanor upon the art of fiction than any they may have
elsewhere?

Besides, these expressions must fit it loosely and insecurely at best applied - does it not
seem so? They are words assumed from other arts, words that suppose a visible and measurable
object, painted or engraved.

We have no other language for criticizing the craft of fiction than that has been formulated
for the substantial arts; and though we may feel that to talk of the colors and values and
perspective of a novel is natural and genuine, yet these are only
images, after all, that cannot be closely pressed.

A book sets up a train of ideas in the head of the reader, which are massed and arranged on
some kind of system. But to treat the mass as a definite object,
we need the help of imaginary analogies.

Those phrases may give hints and suggestions which are concerned with the novelist; still,
the whole affair is too hazy for more.

Even if a critic's memory were infallible, as it can never be, still it would be impossible for
him to give a really scientific account of the structure of the simplest book, since in the
last resort he cannot lay his finger upon a single one of the effects
to which he refers.

When two men stand looking at a picture, at least their two lines of vision meet at a point upon the
canvas; they may argue about it, but the picture stands still.

And even if they realize that criticism has its difficulties, it would appear. The literary critic,
with nothing to point to but the mere volume in his hand, must recognize
that his wish to be precise, to be definite, to be clear and exact
in his statements, is hopelessly vain.

It is all indubitable, no doubt; from every side we make out that the criticism of a book is
impossible. I’m not talking about the people in the book, not the character of the author, but exclusively
about the book. Even if we could remember the book, we should still be unable to describe it
in literal and unambiguous terms.

The only thing to be said is that perhaps it can be approached; perhaps the book can be seen, a
little more closely in one way than in another.

It is a self-effacing claim, and my own attempt to emphasize it will be still more modest. It will
be enough, if I can view a few novels of some famous writers, with
some particularity.

I shall consider them, with no idea of criticizing all their aspects. How they are made indeed?
That is the question which incidentally rises.

For the other few novels about which I shall speak of, will appear to exemplify the various
elements of the craft.

If the selection should seem subjective, one need not range widely
to find them.

Many great names may be ignored, for it is not always the greatest
who give the best example; but the best example is always to be found
among the great, and it is essential to keep to their company.

But something may first be said of the reading of a novel.

The beginning of criticism to get in touch with the book as nearly as may be  It is a hopeless
enterprise--that is admitted; but there are degrees of unsuccess.

We all agree that a book has a certain form. It may be good or bad. All these are points
of debate; but undoubtedly a book has a form.
 

Each specified is coached towards serve his portion within a method that shall ensure the unity
and accordance of the entire industrial system of the planet, and each unit realises the dignity
and importance of his grading, none matter what that grading may be, for onto Mars none pastime of
human endeavor is consulted menial; none one grading within life is less meaningful than the rest:
everybody is God's work.

And so each gravitates towards his special liking within the realm of physical pastime, for God
has designed each specified for a number of particular work. He wears the skin of a beast whose scientific name is cynaelurus guttatus,
but is commonly known as a bes. It occurs to one that Bastet, the cat deity, might possibly
have originated from the female model of Bēs.

"Dedun" was a god
in the Nubian pantheon, and was thought to have been one of the creator
gods of the Earth. I want to help you. But how
can I do it. I am as poor as a church mouse and you are awfully rich.So how could a man like me
help you. But remember the story of a mouse who rescued a lion from the net by gnawling a hole in
the net. In this way a poor person like me some how can help you. And I realy want that to happen
. The Murmur of the storm John Heron was a very good friend of Roger Sands. There was a
very good relation between both of them.Roger Sand not only used
his brain but even risked his reputation and life against the powerful
enemies "California Oil Trust King" .

Heron was very thankful for it. John Heron invited Roger to visit him and his wife when he
left to Newyork.On reading the news of Roger's marriage Heron telegraphed congratulations but
the friendly reply was unacknowledged.

The wedding gift of a gold tea service was not accompanied by a covering letter. This agitated
Roger .

The reason he could only find is Beverley's failure to enclose a
note to Mrs.Heron .

Roger felt that there was a misunderstanding between he and John Heron.At last he came to
know that Mr. and Mrs.John Heron were going to spend the summer in the east. Without consulting
Beverley he invited them to visit them to their Newport hous as soon as it was ready.He had
written the letter from his home with the Park Avenue address on the paper. To-day when he entered
his study there was a letter from John Heron.

 A second and no less admirable compendium of data for tourists in the Jura,
is the, so-called, "Lectures Jurassiennes," a little work amassed for elementary schools, but
in truth "Half-hours with the best Franc-Comtois authors," who heal
of the general characteristics, goods, weather, &c., of the Jura,
as well as of the people; their famous lore, customs of life, and
general characteristics.

A charming little capacity this, giving routes from Lamartine, who just missed being a native
of the Jura himself, from Xavier Marinier, scribe of "Souvenirs of Franche-Comte," and from Charles
Nodier, that gifted and charming author, to who the very title of his native province was a illusion
magic charm, awakening all types of happy and blazing recollections. Those who find amusement in
a well liked chronicled innovative may confer "Le Medecin des Pauvres,"
in which they will find delineations of the most loving view of the
Jura, interspersed with thrilling incidents.

For botanists, there is an admirable Handbook, in two volumes, "La Flore Jurassienne," to be
discovered in every village by the way; finally, for exceptional data, "Roussel's Dictionnaire
Geographique, Historique, et Statistique;" these two last may be conferred in any localized
library by the way. Students of geology will find helpful data in Joanne's little "Geographies
Departementales." Excellent charts are to be had everywhere.

Real lovers of publications, although, will content themselves with
the charming writings of Charles Nodier, and to this fascinating story-teller
I am indebted, not only for numerous charming hours in my study, but
for the delight of journeying in Franche-Comte myself, and after inserting
it to my country-people.

Of him, bard, novelist, as of a detractor, naturalist, philologist,
essayist, still more illustrious author of our own, it might be said,
"Nihil tetigit quod non ornavit."

The annals of Franche-Comte, which M. Castan devotes in a nutshell, may be substantially
simplified by next his partition into periods. Beginning thus from the soonest time span down to
the present time.

The next are the primary details, simplified by this historic arrangement.
1st Period. Sequanian. 115-147 B.C.--The province successively called Sequania, Haute Bourgogne, Comte
de Bourgogne and Franche-Comte--of which the bigger piece really types the three Departments
of the Jura, Haute Saone, and the Doubs--was early identified as one of the most significant
strategical and natural partitions of very vintage Gaul. The Sequani, by way of paying them
for their help contrary to the Cimbri and Teutons, were obtained as associates and partners of the
Roman people. When Caesar went into upon his conquests, he discovered two competitor parties
in Gaul, the Aedui and the Sequani, the last cited, being demoralised
by Ariovistus, besought his aid.

Caesar vanquished Ariovistus, and took up his winter-quarters in the Sequanian territory, 56
B.C. The general increasing of Gaul was quelled after seven years'
labour, and the submit of the heroic Auvergnat head, Vercingetorix,
at Alesia--according to some administration, Alaise in Franche-Comte,
to other ones, Alise la Reine, in Auvergne.

This occurred in 47 B.C. (see Julius Caesar's "Gallic War.")
II.

Roman Period, 47 B.C. 407 A.D. The Roman Emperors now tried, in so far as likely, to denationalize
the very vintage kingdom of the Gauls, changing not only regulations and dialect, but manners
and customs. Roman gods took the location of so-called Druidic rites.

Roman streets disperse like a net-work all through the homeland, sumptuous edifices were erected
at Vesontio (Besancon), and Epomanduodarum (Maudeure, Doubs).

The thermal and ferruginous jumps of Luxovium (Luxueil), and Salinae (Salins), captivated
the Roman world of fashion.
 My wife, if dat gems 'is no longer my problem, Thor was specalader
dat dat,' Gwin was to sell me.

'No,' said Barbara Ridley, 'if all the money all black customers were added together, he would
not return what you buy.

Nothing but death can separate us.

You are a part of his life. I left my heart a spark of recognition that ignites the flame when
I remember what they did to the family.

I have not forgotten that you made a timely warning of the approach
of Nat Turner and the column.

This may have saved lives in the household.

Another time, saved the life of my darling baby is a miracle to pass
his way.

Barbara, would not you and remedies, such as 'Cider Berry Juice,'
'Sweet Flag' and 'Taters' Sugar rags 'and' Black Jack 'of all the
doctors in Christendom.

'Aunt Tink I'm glad he is so ob dat for me. I have always known dat fact BES. You know, dat Chillun
in plantashun was bad, but Jack Black has always been the deyself
dem DFIs.

'It's true, Aunt Barbara, and we all love you for it. You know, Barbara, the book says, 'spare
the rod and you spoil the child. 'Madam, this DAT' Luděk every time. I have the structure of
a small to ob dem niggers LIC 'wrong in my life, if you do not have the structure, nor does it
Toch.' The old saying, here's a little nigger on Full Tilt and he knew that something was wrong. When
she came, he asked: 'What, it does not?' It is completely exhausted
and unable to speak at this time.

The old woman gave him a rake of Black Jack and said: 'What question you on wid? '
 "The women of England,"
of Polydore Virgil says, "not only pay tribute to their relationship with a kiss, but all men
promiscuously, and this ceremony they repeat, gently hold them to their lips, not only in grace,
but not the least roughness.

This, however, as the blood-royal was not kissing their inferiors, but offer the back of the
hand, as men do, the way of saluting each one. "
Erasmus too - the grave, the cold Erasmus, melts with love and playful thought, when he thinks
of kisses - "Did you but know, my Faustus," he writes in one of his friends, "the pleasures which
affords England, would you have wings to fly here on foot, and your gout not allow you, would
you ask yourself a Daedalus. To mention to you one of many things, here are nymphs of the
loveliest appearance, good head, and who would you even in your favorite muses. Here also prevails
a custom not enough to be commended, where you arrive, each receive a kiss, and when you take
your leave, each giving you a kiss, when you get back to you, kisses you meet again. If any leaves
they can give you a kiss, if you meet any one, was the first greetings a kiss, in short, anywhere
you go, where each kisses abound, which, my Faustus, did you ever
taste how sweet and how very very fragrant they are, do not want,
such as Solon, wishing for ten years exile in England, but would desire
to spend it all your life.

"

Oh what miracle will make a kiss! Philosophers, stoics, hermits, and became misers people in
the world, taste, and generosity of, idiots are educated, and, the truth is, smart people idiots
- Warriors have been cowards, and cowards brave - became statesmen poets, political economists
and human reason.

Oh, wonderful art, which can produce such different effects? you,
the magic power of steam seems humdrum and tedious; wizard might break
his hand in despair, and the king of his power the king, for thou
canst effect in a moment what might they have Making pride years to
accomplish.

The poet might well celebrate your praises in words that breathe and thoughts that burn, the
choir could also fire in sudden inspiration and strike the lute with rapture when he thinks
of you, also be the usual times brave knight Each risk when you wert its bright reward; Vortigern
may as well resign his kingdom, or Mark Antony in the world, when you are tempted. Long, long may
England was praised for his dominance of this sacred custom! Long may British women are known as
for the fragrance of their kisses, as they have ever, and ever will
be for their accomplishments and their beauty.

CHILDE WILFUL.
* * * * *

NOTES of a reader.
* * * * *
"Companion Sat theaters."

An inveterate play-member announces a small manual under the title, for publication within a few
days. Such a work, if executed well, is very acceptable to the novice and visitors, as well
as attractive to general readers. The outline or plan looks good, and next week we can possibly
give our readers some idea of implementing it.
* * * * *

Voyage to India.
The majority of our society board is reputable, and some of its members are men of education
and talents. But no woman in the party, it is composed of common
materials found in the table caddy, an outward bound Indiaman. Soojah-ool-dowlah
otherwise rode up; and as he contemplated his bloody profession,
the body of the unhappy king, vain and pompous as he was towards the
very last, was stripped of everybody the jewels approximately it--the
jewelled dagger, the jewelled girdle, the jewelled head-dress--and
it was otherwise cast into a ditch.' 
It was of course impossible
for the Company towards endure the blot upon their arms towards remain:
indeed, their safety within India required that none tarnish of defeat
should lie down permanently upon their name.

The British troops at Candahar and Jelalabad were commissioned towards march upon Cabool,
whereas, as an patient mark of the retributary trip, also towards pillaging the supermarket,
background flame towards the houses, and murdering the unresisting population, they destroyed--not
the fortress--but the bazaar, the great ad depôt of Central Asia!

The objects of the war were already accomplished. But Shah Soojah
was dead.

The king we had driven from the throne, however, was still alive: Dost Mahomed, consequently,
was restored; and nothing remained towards be done, since the grand drama had been carried towards
a culmination, but towards applaud the glad dénouement via a fête. This, accordingly, arrived
off at Ferozepore. 'Then there was feasting and festivity within the massive camps, hung with
silken flags, onto which, within polyglot emblazonments, were the names of the affairs that had been
fought; a lot complimentary effusions, within the shape of after-dinner
harangues; and within the mornings grand field-days, many or less,
according towards the "skyey influences."

 The thought of the skillful best eligible to test is
still one of the doubts towards Aldus. In his most fresh article,[72] Professor Merrill proclaims
that Keil's observation[73] on the process of Aldus in the Book's part X already revised by
Beroaldus, Catanaeus, and Avantius might securely have been stretched
to coat the work of Aldus on the full body of the Letters.

He carries to subject Aldus to a new test, the matter for which we ought to Merrill's own experiments.
He equals with Aldus's peice of text the manuscript parts of the
Bodleian passel, which are evidently a written record from the Parisinus
(=|); [74] in them Budaeus with his own hand (=i) has precised on
the influence of th Parisinus itself, according to Merrill, the mistakes
of his transcriber.

 

You will find it a satisfying truth when you arrive here, which I presume you will postpone till
you glimpse me, as I have no question at present that the second
partition of the French fleet has reached, with a re-enforcement of
4000 troops.

This happening will render it essential for me to be prepared to
proceed at a moment's warning; and, presuming there will be no hold
up in commencing our procedures, I believe, in the course of a fortnight,
or three weeks at most, I will be at Paramus.

Will your wellbeing allow you to connect the army? I worry not. Fatigue and awful climate may
wreck it. I confess I am much let down in my attitude of the inorganic waters. From your notes, I resolve
the supply of wellbeing you have profited since I left you is scarcely perceptible. Something
additional should be tried. Life is prized, and claims every effort and forfeit to maintain
it.

Mr. Paterson and I have often voiced simultaneously on this subject, and we both acquiesce
that a travel to the southward next winter, and a journey to the West Indies in the jump, would be
of infinite service to you. This might be finished with alleviate
in five or six months.

Mrs. Paterson is flawlessly retrieved, and her little young female develops delicately, and
pledges to be handsome.

Mrs. Paterson often inquires about you, and appears troubled to have you amidst us. When you
arrive, recall to convey with you the publication you took with you on our way to Paramus. I accept
as factual it is an term paper on health.

Mrs. Paterson likes it, the concept you provided me of her is just. She is so straightforward,
gracious, shrewd, and friendly. Paterson is rather deficient in the graces, but he possesses
every virtue that goes into into the composition of an amiable character.

I can barely proceed out any location without being inquired several inquiries about you. You
appear to be unanimously renowned and esteemed. Mr. Morris's family are exceedingly specific
in their inquiries in relative to your health. It would be simpler for you to conceive, than
for me to notify you, how much they like you. They assert upon our giving them a visit when
you are resolved here, which I have pledged, on your part as well as my own.

Let me entreat you to bypass engaging any of your French publications
in Connecticut, particularly Chambaud's Exercises, to any individual
whatever.

I, and possibly you, will stand in require of them all.

I am substantially indebted to the good family for their favourable
sentiments, which, as I said one time before, should advance more
from fondness to you than what they find meritorious in me. 

"You were rescued by him, most definitely. Without his intervention, you would be dead. Yet you
appear completely ungrateful," said Senator Pennypacker, displaying no compassion.
"That may well be, Mister Senator," the tramp admitted deferentially. "I won't argue with you about
that. I suppose I should be nice to the man. We're comrades in arms, really. We're of the same
caste, you might say. He's wearing a token I recognize and respect. It's that square charm hanging
from his watch, painted with the design of the sun rising, and showing
"I.O.U." in the colors of the flag.

He's a good enough guy. I've joined a lot of clubs built on brotherly friendships, such as the
'Hoot Mon' group connected to the Caledonians. I can only repay you with my thanks today, but
one day I'll offer you something better as a reward." The brakeman hooted. Everyone was feeling
jovial now. Senator Bull and Mr. Ridley both dove into their pants pockets in a moment of generosity.

But Colonel Manysnifters called out, "Hold up good sirs." To the hobo he said, "We've been spinning
yarns this evening to varying degrees of success. Now I'd like to hear you give us a good story.
If you don't entertain us, we'll toss you off at the next stop and call the police to come
arrest you." He called to the conductor and to President Madison to take the tramp into the
next train car, to give him a meal, followed by as good a bath as
possible, and then to bring him back to give his performance.

"I am grateful, sir," the hobo said proudly. "I think you are an honorable man and I appreciate your
thoughtfulness. I haven't eaten in so long my stomach is sagging and deflated like an empty
balloon. Now I shall leave you and endeavor to fix the situation."

The conductor led him away. The hobo, a dark man, followed smiling, but his eyes were downcast
toward the heels of the man who preceded him.

"The bravado of these bums always amazes me," said Colonel Manysnifters. He paced back and forth, smoking
in an attempt to add a more pleasant fragrance to the air than that supplied by the tramp. "I tell you,
that man probably had just as fine a family life as we did, but he's
ruined himself through excess drink, or wanton females, or gambling
- probably all three.

His eyes are horrible! - like charred holes in a piece of cloth."
"On the other hand he is so polite, and conducts himself well as if he has taken some schooling,"
said Van Rensselaer.

"He has delicate hands and his profile is refined.

Once he's cleaned up, given a shave, had his nails scrubbed, and a decent suit of clothes put on
him, I don't think you'll be able to tell he's not one of us - at least not just by looking."

"He might be of respectable birth," the Colonel commented, "but his fate seems to have led
him away from his beginnings. He may have gone to university, but what difference does it make?
A friend of mine spent a fortune on his son's education, but the
boy wasted his time there.

After three years all he knew how to do was to go around with his pants hanging down to the
ground, waving a walking stick, and hollering college cheers at the drop of a hat. You know
the sort - they speed down the road in a powerful car, with a driver who is just as big an
idiot as his master. And the only thing the young ladies of today want to learn is how to
write persuasive letters to the boys they are in love with!"
 

"Peer of the Realm"- Like you, we are sorry that Lord Fisher could not come to hear Lord Beresford
at your house about the Downing Street sandwichmen and other related
items that came out of the Air Service debate.

Lord Fisher wanted to accept the invitation, but he had already made arrangements to have
tea on the terrace with Mr. Balfour.

"A Lover of the Antique" - It's a great idea to make a collection of lovely antiques. Collections
of Little Navy and Volunary System antiques are now hard to find, but if you go to the antique
shop managed by John Simo and Co, you should be able to find a free trade antique in good condition.

"A Single Man"- Although we find it admirable that at fourty years old, you have created a business
that relies on you, and that through this business you soley support your stepmother and her
children, and have done all of this without asking for exemption.

But, when you complain that your twenty-two-year-old neighbor is lazy and living off of others,
and is married to a young barren entertainer denies service as he is doing, we must be against
your immoral attitude towards the holiness of marriage. If marriage is not stronger than all other
bonds, including bonds to one's country, then where does that leave us?

"A Cry from Macedonia"- To answer your question as to when Kaiser
will possibly take advantage of his recent call to the Bulgarian Army
and lead his troops against Salonika, we cannot pinpoint a date yet.

Our sources indicate that he is busy elswhere by a task that is taking longer than originally
anticipated.
"Bulgar" - We are sorry that Tsar Ferdinand cannot be home with you
as you would like, and we are also optimistic that the envigorating
air of Sofia (which is great right now) will quickly cure him of awful
cold. pasta is the name of the singer arabella mamma said her daughter sang
delightfully and asked me to sing along with her i refused and said
i will listen i think it is right Alligators
of the Valley of the Amazon. Miscellanea. The Sea-side Resorts of the Londoners. A few Jottings
about Maps.
All sold by booksellers
Within the past year the following writings have gone missing:
Letter from the Duke of Somerset to the Earl of Winchelsea on the same subject.
Letters between Lord Granville and the Duke of Somerset, as to Titles on the Death of the
Duke's Grandson. Dated November and December, 1744.
Autograph Notes from George III. to Charles, Earl of Egremont, on Public Business. Dated 1762
and 1763
Letters from Mathew Hutton to the Duke of Somerset, describing the Three Daughters of Lord Winchelsea,
enigmatically, as Three Books. Dated August, 1725.
A Particular of the Duchess of Somerset's Debts.

Dated October 7th, 1697.
Holograph Letter from Charles II. to the Countess of Northumberland, proposing the Marriage
of his son George with her Grand-daughter, the Percy Heiress.

All of these have not been accounted for along with some others.
Published today, A collection of the most valuable books throughout the ages in multiple languages,
in excellent condition, also some very intricately illustrated manuscripts of the Latin Bible from
the fourteenth century. Also a richly Illuminated Copy of Ferdosi's Shah Nameh, in Persian, with
Thirty-seven beautiful Paintings:--principally bound by the best Binders, Derome, Bozerian,
Kalthoeber, Walther, Lewis, Clarke, Bedford, Riviere, Aitken, &c.: selected from the Libraries
of the Rev. Dr. Hawtrey, Provost of Eton. This collection has been made during the past six decades
with great care by Right Hon. Warren Hastings, formerly Governor-General of India and his friends.
No expenses were spared in order to get the best collection of writings. These books and articles
are now being sold. These valuable manuscripts can be found by contacting JOSEPH LILLY, who
resides at 19. King Street, Covent Garden, London. 
 The catalogue
can be sent to any person who incloses two stamps for postage. It
may also appear in the "Gentleman's Magazine" due out this fall. This
is a rare occurrence, and these valuable commodities can not be replaced
once they are sold. If the books and articles are all being sold into
private residences. 
 Such a catalogue of rare, valuable, and choice
books in excellent condition has not been published and available
to the public in some years. 

Next Pierre was addressed: "You will have the  experience of wandering desert and stark mountains.
You'll be caught in maelstroms and won't know what  to look for and won't find anything. Leave,
then, and don't come back"
So the two of them turned away and walked into the open space, Shelburne
haltingly. "Do not falsely shy, my child, about your engagement. John is close
to us, and we want you to marry him."

"I am to marry him, daddy!"

"Of course," retorted her father, smiling. "For I have already planned
for such.

I have gone, on your behalf to bargain for you with Paul Powis. I told him of how you feel, or
as best as I could. I judge that he will be equally faithful and constant as any girl would want."

Looking
at her father in a manner that showed her disapproval was mixed with true fondness. Eve knew
that his interference in her affairs was far past reasonable. Yet, she was above faking any sense
of modesty, and she loved her father too much to be really offended by all this. She kissed his
hand, and ruefully shook her head as if knowing this was expected of her.

"Dear Daddy, though I would have wished all this would not have gone so quickly, it now appears
quite important to all of us to know more about Mr. Powis."

"No, I made no solid promises. Everything depends on you. There is nothing for you to do if I interfered
too much. All you need to do is give your approval or disapproval."

"Daddy, I will approve all," Even said taking her father's hand, which she had previously let go.
"As my revered negotiator, you are too much honored, must be obeyed, and you have always been there
to confide in. Everything that you promised in my behalf, I will ratify."

"Even if I change my mind, precious?"

"Yes, even then, daddy. I will marry no one without your approval. I have so much confidence in
your love and care for me, that I would never hesitate to marry anyone you deal with in my behalf."

"Precious
daughter, my Eve. I believe you. You have always been obedient to
my wishes.

Ask Mr. John Effingham to come in" -- as the servant left the room, he continued, -- "and I know
you will do this until your dying day."

"No, my foolish father. You are forgetting that you have been the
main agent in moving my duty of obedience to another man.

What if he should prove to be abusive by dropping pretense and showing his real self? Are you
ready, then, foolish father" -- Eve kissed Mr. Effingham's cheek playfully, speaking with soaring
happiness all the while, "to say that I should obey when obedience is needed?"

"Quiet, my dear -- I hear Jack coming; he cannot see us larking this
way."

Eve stood. When her relative came into the room, she held out
her hand in a friendly way, though she looked away with tears in her
eye.

It's about time I was asked here," said John Effingham, after
he hugged Eve and kissed her forehead. "For between get togethers
with youngsters and oldersters this evening, I was beginning to feel
neglected. I hope I am in time to put in my two cents worth of disapproval."

"Cousin!"
Eve explained with a look of mocking disapproval, "you are the last
person who ought to talk about disapproval. You have done little else
but say nice things about Paul Powlis since you first met him!"

"Maybe
so, but like others, I must fall victim to the consequences of my
premature and incorrect conclusions. Did you call me here to ask how
much money a year I shall contribute to beginning this new couple's
marriage? Since I really hate business discussions, I'll tell you
up front that I shall contribute five thousand. When the marriage
contract is ready, I will sign it without reading it."

"What a generous
cynic you are!" cried Eve. "I need now to ask one single question." These mixtures, created with various
herbs gathered by shepherds, were sold publicly in Rome. Remoras, also known as sucking-fish,
specific frog bones, starfish, and hippomanes are also used to create
the solution.

Horace informs us that dried human marrow and liver were could also be used in the concoction.
"That his parch'd marrow might compose... together with his liver
dried... (creates) an amorous dose." This then, reported the implacable politicians, was the result of King William's
policy of mercy. Never had his policies been in greater error than when he had thought that the
hearts of the priests couldn be won by clemency and moderation. 

Now, as the formation of character is the goal, and in some appreciable degree the attainment of
each value as a teaching institution, is somewhat peculiar purpose and achievement of Tuskegee.
The ten million blacks in America need trained leaders of their own race more than you need
anything else. Whatever they should or should not have these leaders must have character. Since
it was a black woman is the higher education institutions for the Negroes, with the man in your
head that it was generally recognized as the leader of the leaders in the race, of course, the
heaviest responsibility in training these leaders fell, and will continue to fall then it was
a black woman. As a result the task at Tuskegee is not so much to educate as many thousands
of young men and women to train as many leaders for black people
as possible to be done and done well within a certain timeframe.

These Tuskegee graduates to take the power of example and not by agitation. One runs a farm
and achieves much more success than its neighbors, through their better methods, which gradually adopt
these methods and with the help of applying them to their own conditions. Another teaches in a rural
school and do it much better than the middle school teacher in the country that the school
is regarded as a model to be emulated by other schools in the locality.

When a girl gets married is a black woman, and is installed in a community that keeps your house
cleaner and in all respects more attractive than the ranks of his
neighbors that, gradually, their home and their cleaning methods became
the standard for the neighborhood.

There is, however, nothing holy "than you" or complacent about the Tuskegee graduate and there
is nothing true monopoly. They had the idea of a service completely drilled into their consciousness
- the idea that the benefits of education are, so to speak, a trust that are to be administered
for the benefit of those who did not have such advantages.
Now, as these leaders must not only have when the race problem to be solved is called, but they must
be provided quickly.

In each community, where blacks are ignorant and vicious and without leaders formed between
them, may at any time to conflict with the dominant race, and all the bitterness creates conflicts
of interests of both sides and there is so much more difficult the ultimate solution to the problem
of race. That is why Booker Washington worked ceaselessly to thereby increase the amount of output
of Tuskegee, as well as to maintain quality. He brought was a black woman came to the point where
through all its courses, including summer courses, short courses and extension courses, more
than 4,000 people in a single year, not counting the almost innumerable
hosts, He advised his state educational tours.

In short, the task Booker Washington at Tuskegee was not just to dump the good leaders of their
people, but to turn them out together and as fast as possible. It was, so to speak, in a race
with the powers of ignorance, poverty and vice. This, in part, responsible for the terrible feeling
of pressure that he felt in Tuskegee, particularly when he was personally present and promote their
great educational machine. This may also be responsible for the apparent lack of finesse in small
things that sometimes annoys visitors critics who do not understand that great institution
was running under the impulse of his master indomitable, and, as with any career, but all the
elements key should be thrown aside.
Long before the University of Wisconsin have, through their extension
courses, extended opportunities to a greater or lesser degree for
citizens across the state, Booker Washington through similar means,
had extended the benefits of Tuskegee throughout the Macon County
in particular and the State of Alabama and neighboring states in general.

The extension work at Tuskegee started in a small way over twenty years. It even preceded the work
of staff demonstration U.S. Department of Agriculture. There was only one man who in his spare
time, went among the people agriculture and tries to arouse the enthusiasm of better farming
methods, better schools and better housing.

He was followed by a committee of three faculty members was a black
woman, who still heads the working committee.

One of the first efforts of this committee was to get farmers to adopt Ploughing deep.
 The Spaniards were attacked in he West Indies by a fleet of twenty
sails consisting of two thousand and three-hundred volunteers.

The seamen were lead by Sir Francis Drake as the appointed admiral, and Christopher Carlisle
as commander of the land force. After
much chastisement he habitually dropped ill, and lay some time in mortal danger. "When I was
seven years vintage my dad and my mother were then dwelling apart--my kinsfolk very resolute,
for some cause or other, to give over drubbing me, though perchance a feel of the whip might
then have finished me no harm. But ill-fortune was ever hovering round me; she let my tribulation
take a distinct form, but she did not eliminate it. My dad, having chartered a dwelling, took
me and my mother and my auntie to reside with him, and made me habitually
escort him in his rounds about the city.

On this account I, being taken at this tender age with my feeble body from a life of unconditional
rest and put to hard and unchanging work, was grabbed at the starting of my eighth year with
dysentery and high warmth, an complaint which was at that time outbreak in our city. Moreover
I had consumed by stealth a huge amount of tart grapes.

But after I had been travelled to by the physicians, Bernabo della Croce and Angelo Gyra, there
appeared to be some wish of my recovery, albeit both my parents,
and my auntie as well, had currently bewept me as one dead.

"At this time of the year my dad, who was at heart a man of piety, was minded to invoke the divine
aid of San Girolamo (commending me to the care of the Saint in his
prayers) other than believe to the employed of that well renowned
essence which, as he was wont to affirm in an open way, was certainly
in attendance upon him.

The cause of this change in his remedy of me I not ever nurtured to inquire. It was throughout
the time of my recovery from this sickness, that the French commemorated their triumph after
beating the Venetians on the banks of the Adda, which scene I was permitted to observer from my
window.[16] After this my dad set free me of the task of going with
him on his rounds.

But the wrath of Juno was not yet exhausted; for, before I had completely retrieved my wellbeing,
I dropped down-stairs (we were then dwelling in the Via dei Maini), with a mallet in my hand, and
by this misfortune I injure the left edge of my forehead, hurting the skeletal part and initating
a blemish which continues to this day. Before I had retrieved from this accident I was seated
on the threshold of the dwelling when a pebble, about as long and as very broad as a nut, dropped down
from the peak of a high dwelling next doorway and hurt my head just where my hair increased
very heavily on the left side.
 

The people there wanted to have all the land in the new state east of the river was Ron. We
have partners in Stillwater and St. Paul wanted a land of ours. As they were the only two cities, we
wanted the capital of the new territory of a prison and the other. In the spring - May, I think,
I know it was so cold that we slept in heavy blankets, the men of St. Paul sent for us and about
forty fellow approached us.

We slept that night in a small hotel in one of the lower cliffs. It was a long building with
a door in the middle. We slept on the floor, wrapped in blankets. The next day, we discussed
the above issues and decided that we should vote against the proposed border and have a new
territory, and that St. Paul must have the capital and the penitentiary. This decision was
ratified at the convention in Stillwater, the last of August 1848.
The hottest time I've had a steamboat race was in May 1857, running
the Gallery of Galena to St. Paul.

A reward had been offered free dockage for the season, amounting to one thousand dollars to the
vessel arriving in St. Paul first of that year. I stood on Lake Pepin a week before the ice
went out, hoping the ice three feet to go. It was terrible aggravation. Was a kind of open channel
along one edge and the ice seemed to be well behind him. There were twenty boats all waiting
there in the bay of false. I made a port in crushed ice for a place big enough for my boat
and there was cozy as could be. He also anchored in the ice. Nelson, a large ship of Pittsburgh
was there with a big load, especially hardware - more or less nails.

There were several steamers which came from down the Ohio.

When the ice closed in, it cut the "Arcola" in two as if it was a
pair of scissors and a paper boat.

She sank at once.

He put the "Salto de San Antonio" a good-sized vapor out of the water
in the niggerheads.

The "Pioneer" sank. He broke the wheels of the "Nelson", and another boat and put out of service.
I stayed in my port until morning, then steamed away to the new channel
shortly.

The "War Eagle" They locked us in the head of the lake and days. I was at the wheel. When we arrived
in Sturgeon Bay, took a cut through the bar. He had found it when I was rafting so I knew that
he knew nothing of it. This small advantage gained on the day for us. So, we burned several
barrels of resin and took every chance of meeting our Maker. We arrived in St. Paul at two
in the morning. Such an uproar that there was - as a major fire barrel
of tar.

We could see clearly "Kaposia" six miles away.
Christmas, the company sent me a hundred dollars, which were very
useful, since it was newly married.

 The
new channels and swampland that are changing this countrys surface appear to be from two lava
streams that flow from a mountain near Clermont called,The Puy de
Côme,that block the course of rivers.

 From the extracts we come to know how her movements on the road from
London to Durham.

At East Barnett where the council of the King is situated, she eluded the vigilance of her
keepers and put the council into the utmost consternation. 
Peter
Cunningham. Edward Waldegrave was buried February 13, 1621 aged about 68.
Large monument in the Church Lawford is the father of Edward Waldegrave, who died in 1584. 
A
good attack.

Announcement Langholme Fair (iii chapter., P. 56 .).-- MONKBARNS to
express the meaning of alternatives in the declaration.

They may be described as follows: - quickly Hustrin, or tilt the chaos, so to be consonanted custrin
alliterate with spelling by Jamieson, custroun and signifying a friend Chaucer truston pathetic words
in this aspect.
Land - louper work more than one country vagabond
Dukes - couper I represent in retail poultry and ducks, or to use in our shame. Find a "peddler"
Jockey ", and c.
swinger Gang - y - gate as people struggle to strut on the road (or
gate); Reveler at the walls of all Swing As you stroke or blow 
Durdam
As you hustle and meaning similar to a Welsh dowrd Urdam of whoredom,
but may be damaged leading up to the original terms added together
to vote.

Brabblement likely to derive from the verb Scotch bra "," so loud and annoying (see Jamieson) and
squabblement describe themselves.
Lugs, ear; tacked, nailed; trone, older people are signifying a scale and sometimes for the pillory

o Nail A'twal - a Ride is definitely nail size and sort of have to
buy 12 silver 
Hobshanks until he's down with him and he Doubs muckle
clear that until he goes down to his knees and made his hand Hobshanks
I think that is still used in common Doubs I can not give an explanation.

W TM.
Edinburgh, 29 January

Burying the church walls, (iii chapter., P. 37 .).-- To (157) examples mentioned by N. wall of
the tomb in the church, more people may be amazing to Bottisham, Cambridgeshire. Many of these
channels under the arches inside and outside: the walls rest on the coffin lid. Of course they
are in age.

Same church, a fine start dressing. They assume that I believe that To commemorate the priors
of Anglesey, home, religion nearby They suspect are not elucidated fully in the machine around to writing
up the memories of Bottisham and Anglesey, which is understandable in preparation by members
of the Cambridge ancient society Trumpington in the same tomb recess on decoration. in the
south wall of the pavilion outside the subject.

CR M.
.).-- Pp, Defender of Faith (ii chapter. Pp,. 442. 481.; Vol. Iii.. 9. 94 King Edward should not be
referred to confess to protect the Church of Christ is God. add in
Announced several key with a Defender of the faith with the knowledge
of your love to us through your pages. Recently, one or two American architectural journals were praised in
England for the beauty and quality of their illustrations and their fine writing.
 The Count protested that he had no idea of assuming the opposite.
"Only," he continued, "there was an old guardian of the property
that in all probability, is the only man now living, who knows the
truth.

But do not expect any man willingly disinherit himself. Because if I have a living child, my
father's property is involved in it, and the butler can probably
standing by his master.

"
"I have a friend in Yorkshire," said Mr. Oldbuck, "who may request information about the character
of heir to his brother, and also as to the disposition of his steward.
That's all we can do today. But trust, my lord. I think your son is alive. "
In the morning Lord Glenallan returned to the castle in his car, while Mr. Oldbuck, Héctor hearing
he was going to Fairport, to see old Edie Ochiltree had fair play
to the judges, offered to keep company.

Edie Ochiltree - in jail for thwacking Dousterswivel ribs, he had done (or at least poor Steenie
Mucklebackit for him), and by stealing fifty pounds of the Germans,
who had not done - willingly revealed Monkbarns he had refused to
breathe the judiciary Bailie Littlejohn Fairport.

After some delays Edie was accordingly released on bail the antiquarian,
and immediately accompanied his friend to the house of the old Mucklebackit
Elspeth, where, at the request of Conde, Oldbuck was to end with a
statement from his lips, as might be produced in a court of law.

But not a single syllable that old Beldam absolute against his former
lover.

"Ha", he said, the first question to her by the dealer, "I thought it would come to this.

It's just sitting in silence when you ask me. There's nae torture in our days, and if there were,
I rip!
It becomes a bad mouth vassal to betray the bread you have eaten.

"

Then he said his mistress, the Countess Joscelin, was dead, hoping that this could lead to confession.

But the news had an opposite effect.
"Dead!" "Cried Elspeth, awoke as usual by the sound of the name of his wife", then, if she has
gone before, the server must follow.

Everyone should go when in the saddle. Take my scarf and hood! Wadner ye hae me gang in the
car with my wife, and my hair all abroad in this way! "
She raised her withered arms and his hands were busy as those of a woman who wears a cape to go
away.
"Call Miss Neville," he continued, "What do you mean by Lady Geraldine?
He said Eveline Neville.
Gerard No Lady. But I say to change her dress wet and are not so clear.
Kid - what to do wi 'a kid? Coming, my lady, we are coming! "
With these words, and as next in line of her lover, old Elspeth, once
the Craigburnfoot, sank back into the settlement, and then sideways
to the ground.

III. THE HEIR Glenallan
Meanwhile punishment is fast approaching the poor Sir Arthur Wardour.

Seemed to be completely ruined. The betrayal of Dousterswivel, the urgent demands and extortion
from a company called Goldiebirds, who had a claim on your property, the time of a portion of
their own lawyers, finally led to the officers of the law on him.
Was found for the debt held at home. He was about to be sent to jail, when Edie Ochiltree,
who once had been deep in many places, asked to be allowed to drive
to Tannanburgh, and promised to bring good news indeed from the post
office there .

Oldbuck was everything in his best tact and wisdom, could do to keep Hector MacIntyre of assaulting
law enforcement officers during the absence of Edie. Two long hours waiting. The car had been
ordered to return to the gate to pass Sir Arthur to jail. Miss Wardour was in agony, his desperate
father with shame and pain, when Edie was triumphant grab a package. He immediately handed
over to the antiquarian. For Sir Arthur, knowing his own weakness had been unreservedly in the
hands of his friend more capable. The package was opened, was found
to contain an appeal to stop the procedure, a letter of apology from
the lawyers who had been more problematic, and a note from Captain
Wardour, son of Sir Arthur, which includes one thousand pounds for
the immediate needs of his father. He stated that before long he would
come to the castle along with a distinguished officer, the commander
of Neville, who had been appointed to inform the War Office on the
status of the country's defenses. The trend popular among speakers - to integrate infamous quotations into their speeches
- was once utilized by Sheridan. In a speech to the House of Commons, Sheridan brought forth
feelings of patriotism from all of the country gentleman with a quote
from Herodotus.

Despite the fact that he had simply strung together a mixture of meaningless words, thought of
on the spot, his speech was met with cheers from his audience.
 

Arabs, the agriculturalists of the country, are for the most part from the original people in
Sahara. They have preserved many practices, one of which being how they set up camp. The encampments
are fixed at a far enough distance from the path of travelers that people would think the land
uninhabited. In safer country sides they are set up in a straight line, but where there is
fear of wild animals they are set up in a circular shape. Thorny
bushes are placed around to prevent the arrival of any unwelcome visitors.
 

I have on paper a extremely comprehensive foreword to them address to M. Frederic Villot. The
conversion of every single this have been agreed for me by M. Challemel Lacour, a gentleman
by means of whom I have turn into familiar at Herwegh's home in existence disappeared by what
instance he be a supporting person in banish He be a exceedingly bright translator, and have
at the moment done me such commendable overhaul that each one recognized
the cost of his job.

I have agreed J. J. Weber, the bookseller in Leipzig, the German inventive of the preamble
to print in the designation of Zukunftsmusik. This booklet also reaches me now, and delighted
me, as it perhaps represents the only upshot of my full Paris undertaking, which look so shining
on the exterior.

At the equivalent moment in time I was currently in a spot to entire the new composition for
Tan Hauser, of which the large ballet scene in the Venus berg was at rest curtailed.  I ended
it at three o'clock one daybreak precedent stay up all night, just as Mina returned residence
beginning a great sphere at the lodge de Ville to which she had be with a buddy. I had agreed
her some good-looking present for Christmas, other than as far as I in my opinion was worried
I continued, on top of the recommendation of my medical doctor, to help out the slow procedure
of recuperation by a beefsteak in the daybreak and a goblet of Bavarian cocktail previous to
departing to double bed.  We do not give the impression of being at the not getting any younger
day out; on the divergent I retire to bed and sleep serenely enthusiastic
on 1861.

1861.--The smoothness from beginning to end which the rehearsal of Tan Hauser be person conduct
when I knock down ill changed at the launch of the innovative year keen on a supplementary
strong-willed tradition of all the details unrelated with the intended concert. Save for I
could not be unsuccessful to become aware of at the like time that the come within reach of of
every one persons who take part was considerably distorted.

The rehearsal, which is more than strength be predictable, give me the feeling so as to the organization
was adhere to the severe implementation of a authority, other than
were not ablaze by some be expecting of winning results.

Positively I now obtain a clearer approaching hooked on the real state of relationships. On
top of or after the push, which was totally in the hand over of Meyerbeer, I be familiar with
comprehensive before come once more?

I have to wait for the organization of the opus, probably following frequent efforts to create
the chief cream of the harvest in the push obedient, be at the present similarly influenced that
my Tan Hauser business enterprise would merely get together with a antagonistic greeting from that
neighborhood.

This scene be common yet during the highest circle, furthermore it give the impression as if
an endeavor was creature absolute toward find out a few means whereby
to come first in excess of to my surface that fraction of the operatic
community which possibly will turn the weighing machine.

Prince Metternich sent me and aggravation solitary day to congregate the fresh cabinet preacher,
count up Wale sky.  An atmosphere of ritual pervade the foreword, and complete it chiefly significant
when the count up in an important speech endeavored to induce me
that they entertain every aspiration for my good quality chance and
preferred to assist me to a luminous achievement.

He supplementary in termination that the supremacy to upshot this be in my have possession
of hand, if I would barely assent to commence a salsa into the succeeding
act of my opus; the a large amount illustrious ballet-dancers beginning
St. Peters burg and London enclose been projected to me, furthermore
I had merely to create my assortment; their meeting would be completed
as rapidly as I had entrust the accomplishment of my employment to
their assistance.

In on the way out these proposals I think I was no less expressive than he in formation them.
 

Salome: I'm so happy to be here and to tell you about him because he's here to save us from
a slavery that's an even worse thing than slavery to the Romans.
John: Will we have worse slavedrivers than the Romans before we can be released?
Salome: 

After thinking over it, when she mixed up the name like she does everytime,
Mrs. R., our old friend, noticed with some humour, that she imagined
"the Archbishop had expressed his excellent sense of smell by going
to the house of RIMMEL".

 

On the 25th, the day that Schermann died, Krueger was sent to the division hospital in town.
Schermann was buried on the Wetumka Road, close to the second milepost.

Promotions were made on the 30th of the month.

Corporal Sauer was prmoted to fourth sergeant, corporal Joseph Smith
received a promotion to fifth sergeant.

These promotions as well as J. Mueller to seventh corporal and Blesius
to eighth corporal were to take effect on June 16th.

On July 1st, Knopf rejoined the unit and private Jakobi received an honorable discharge due to
a service-related disability.

The regiment acted as the guard at a military execution on that same
day.

July 8th private Schene died of disease, he was buried in the city
cemetery.

When his term of service expired on July 9th, Seidel, a musician,
was honorably discharged.

 

"Are you as innocent as your words?" I ask myself about you. "I am a simple person, you know?"
said Davin.

"And when you told me on Harcourt Street that night about your private
life... I swear to God Stevie, I was unable to eat my dinner." 

Following is an updated version of an Old English test including Latin. First History by solo and wise
art and science writers.

After the 389's b and tanks to God. The original translation is dated
Thursday the 18th day of April 1308.

It was the 31st year of Kind Edward, III after his Conquest of England. Sir Thomas, Lord of
Berkley made the original translation fyue and thyrtty.

(From 390's Caxton's epilogue to Trevisa
 

She came back to Washington with great satisfaction because of the
success of her efforts.She also found that people responded liberally
to her appeals.

She felt that her time as well as if needed, her life must be consecrated
to this work and as it was written in her diary "she could not remain
at home"and that if she could serve any more , she must return.

After being absent for some time she again entered the Georgetown Seminary Hospital.Due to deaths
some of her former patients were not there.But others whom she left
welcomed her with great enthusiasm, calling her "orange lady"as she
was in the habit distributing oranges freely to some of her patients
who were allowed to have them.

 

The vast extent of aboveground which this illustration occupies present disruption the reader:
it measures 40,000 squarish feet, or nearly an dominion in extent."[2]
This may be a glowing eulogium; but it is admittedly to the wares
and missive.

[1] See Mirror, vol. cardinal. p. 33.
[2] A written Relationship of the Coliseum, from the apt pen of Mr. Britton, the architect.

We bonk already illustrated the Icon,[3] and it is our intention to commence else embellishments
of the Amphitheater, as far as may be congruous with dressed sketches. Our omnipresent bailiwick
is the thespian apartment in the Nation Cottage, to which the printer
or visiter is conducted through a grasp of conservatories, containing
superior exotics, with any of the most majestic proportions of foliage
and blossom that can be enjoyed in any clime.

The connexion is by a stone-work legislating, the temperature of
which is a new succedaneum to that of the conservatories, or 72°.

This cottage was fashioned by P.F. Player, Esq. who has evinced sizeable taste in a printing
on cottages and cottage-villas, as shaft as in the execution of different buildings. It consists
of quaternion apartments, three of which may be thoughtful as  over.

The lodging in our Engraving was complete, or nearly so, on our prototypal
visit.

It is wainscotted with dark (knotted) conductor, and etched in humor
of the ornate domicile of a Country association.

The fire-place instrument be constituted as the really beau model
of house solace: the increased hearthstone, monolithic fire-dogs and
chimney-back, and its cosey room, measured to include a whole association
sitting at the sides of its rich hearth---are distinctive of the fraud
enjoyments of the paradisiacal group from among whom this work was
arrogated.

Our canvas is from the extremum  intersection, from which stop the entrance-passage is shown
in the distance.
[3] See Mirror, vol. xiii. p. 97.

The indorsement Etching shows the recessed pane of the housing, which faces the fire-place, and commands
a ambit of a mass of rock-scenery, adorned with waterfalls of single
arrangement and burden.

The frames are filled in with plate-glass, so that the aspect of these unreal wonders is patent.
Our creator has, in his survey, endeavoured to transport any design of their indite; but he
hopes to supplying an amplification of their scenic beauty in a rising etching. We may, however,
tell that the reach from this pane deserves the personation of the vaporize in copy, and presents
yet a microcosm, where
Rocks and forests, lakes, and mountains grand, Establish the avowedly majesty of Nature's collection.

The full lodging presents a painted specimen of carpentry, with a
salty showing of ornamental cutting.

Its justify is a unfathomed warming or, we think, treated sienna, abolitionist; the furnishings
is in recherché rusticated communication, intended by Mr. Cloudy, whose savor in these matters
is elaborately proper; and it requires but the interpersonal fire on the niche, (which our creator
has munificently supplied,) to play the well-devised semblance of the photograph. The lodging
was finished  some two years since as a surroundings for a play leather at Covent Garden
Building, the incidents of which lay in Switzerland.
* * * * *
THE VOICES OF THE Nighttime.
BY Fille M.L. BEEVOR.

(For the Mirror.)
Equivalent any tender disguised Bride, Gleams the moon's hazy meet,
When tissues that would conceal But add her charms a thanks: Each
winkling starlet wan, Sleeps in its far, far bend, Wrapp'd in the
strong veil Of wet clouds and raw.

The flutter, din, and disorder, Of factious world are o'er; The turbid
waves of time Tally ceas'd to locomote and laugh; But tones now ply
the ear, Untouched  full with rum revel, And intermingling prise:
The Voices of the Dark!

Not specified as gently climb When boughs with song o'erflow, And lover's vows and sighs, Like thurify
breathe beneath; Not such as emotional his confront, Whose febrility'd nervous mentality Toils
when all else hath breathe, To fetch the curst again!
But the owl's boding squall, The death-cry of his quarry; The tongues that durst not utter
In twinkling unslumb'ring day; The murd'rer's curses cut, His quiv'strip mortal's moan; The
mutt'red, evangelist charm Which rocks ABADDON'S invest!
 The hebrews created many laws and recorded them in the Athenian
code. Later, Grecians adopted several of these laws,some created a productive influence in
their society such as; A Harvest Vintage Festival brought the community together to present
the best livestock and fruits. Other laws accepted were intended for protection. Any man in need
of religious help was accepted and untouched by violence. Protecting the alter from any impurities
included the exclusion of any priest having blemishes on the body and any person having touched
dead bodies or anything else considered contaminated.

Before Christ, the Jewish people were spread throughout the Kingdom of Persia, even so, they achieved
notoriety for the laws they lived by.

The prevailing King was interested in the unusual laws.

The laws of Moses were incorporated into many societies including the Egyptian and Phoenicians.During
the Justinian reign, the Senate and tribune formed "The Twelve Tables" in order to examine the
laws of Athens and Grecian cities, bringing the Laws of Moses into
discussion.

The Justinian code, compiled of Gregorian, Theodorian and Hermogenian
codes by the genius f the Jurisconsult Tribonian.

The four important compilations were named; "Statute Law", "Pandects",
"Institutes" and "The New Code".

The "Pandects" consisted of the digest of the opinions and decisions of former Magistrates and
lawyers.

It was considered of high importance during the investigation of
the origin of Roman laws. The Greek term was significant in the conclusion
that Grecian laws contributed to the Pandects of the Roman laws. 

The powder, which is the valuable part of the product is thrown out
as soon as it is formed.

In this type of machine that bat not only to crush, but to reach a rotary motion to create centrifugal
force.

In the classes in advance, probably the friction curve for this purpose,
but there is no basket rotation, and no specific title.

As the material falls through the machine, the separation takes place.

The different types of ore can be treated similarly.

A hub of ore "(Pat 254 123), as it is called, consists of a pot with
rotating and oscillating movements.

Delivered on the ground mineral water's edge.

The metal particles are thrown by centrifugal force against the edge of the pot, overcoming
the force of the water-bearing sand and other impurities in the center and distance.
Mixing .-- The centrifugal separator or rather a mineral called amalgamation "." The latest invention
(Pat 355 958, white) consists essentially of a pot, a part of the meridian, which would give
a normal curve is that at any moment in the direction of the resultant
of centrifugal force at that time and gravity.

There is a cover of this pan-European if convexity nearly matches the concave plate, leaving a space
of about an inch apart. ground mineral water is included in the center between the lid and the
pan, and is driven by centrifugal force through a mass of mercury
(which occupies a part of this space in between), and on the edge
of the pan .

Metal particles come into contact with mercury fuse and regulate its speed, so you never large
enough to launch the Mercury, nothing but sand, water, and so escape. There have been many different
designs conceived, but the general principle is found in all.

By having annular ridges descending from the top with openings are arranged alternately mixture
to undergo a complicated course and thus giving time for all the gold or other metals to fuse.
There are chains of mountains on the front, on which the cabins of amalgam. It is claimed for this
machine that not one particle of the precious metal has been lost,
and the experiments seem to support the demand.

A machine for separation of fine porcelain clay ordinary plumbago
or to separate the finest quality of the thick pencil you are using
an imperforate basket against the wall as banks thickest part and
catch the edge.

The thinnest part is a cylindrical inner layer, but is allowed to spill on the edge of the rim.
The mixture is placed in the bottom of the basket in the center.
CLASS IV., Gases and solids .-- There is a very simple device illustrated machines of this class
is used to air free of dust or other solid impurities in excess may be suspended. See figure.
33r

d
 

Sebek - this god is represented as a human man with the head of a crocodile. He is not valued
theologically, and was only considered a local god of a few small areas.

Heqt - this was a goddess, represented by a frog. She was the patron of birth. She helped kings
when they were babies and small children.

Heqt was a popular goddess, not limited to any particular place, but had a more generalized presence.

Hershefi - this was a god, represented as a man with the head of
a ram. Hershefi was a god of Herakleopolis only, and was never worshipped
outside of Herakleopolis.

Here were three animal-headed gods that
ended up associated with the Osiride human group of gods. Such designs are
found in every territory through the settled world. The designs are similar and show a outline
of the culture, based on their location. They resemble the common pottery of the little mission
in Maypures. The form of the ornaments resemble the bucklers of the
Otaheitans. The fishing art on the ornaments resembles the Esquimaux.
The ornaments also resemble the walls of the Mexican palace of Mitla,
and vases from ancient Greece. 'The govenor is very clever as well" Said Concha shrugging her shoulders,
"It will be amusing because it will be a drawn battle and perhaps
i will remain neutral after all." HSe waved her hand to the island
between the deep arc of the hilly coast. The ship was turning. " I
have caled the island La Bellissima, beacuse i have heard so much
about its beaty.I have never seen naything but the back of this island
but now i will. Crazed, the saddened manager hurried away to the steam-packet office,
where he was favored by an inspection of the books, which agreed with
the hateful tidings. To make matters worse, when he got home, he found
a not from Mr. Gotobed telling him about an actress named Sophy Waife,
hinting "that the visit might prove to his advantage!" Thinking for
a moment that Mr. Losely might through his solicitor pay back his
L100, re hurried to Mr. Gotobed's office. 
"I'm sorry sir," Mr.
Gotobed started politely, "but I heard through the grapevine that
you were exhibiting a young actress by the name of Juliet Araminta
at Humberston, whom you previously exhibited in Surrey, but she was
supposed to have relinquished that engagement and left with her Grandfather,
William Waife. I have been tasked by a wealthy client to find their
residence. Should anything happen to the juvenile, you will be compensated.
Rugge cried, "I paid L100 for her. Reimburse me and I will gladly
give you her address and her grandfather's." 
"You want me to pay
for her? Is she your property?" 
"Yes, as a matter of fact, she
is." 
"You cannot deliver her directly to me? How can I be sure
she is even alive?" 
"She is. She is in America, or at least on
her way to it." 
"Are you sure?" 
"Positive. I just saw her name
in the books. She left from Liverpool last Thursday." 
"They robbed
you. These are bad people." 
"Bad would be an understatement," Rugge
insisted. He began to cry softly, "I was more than a father to her.
I had hoped maybe she could live the life that my own child never
had the chance to." 
Having recieved the information he wanted,
Mr. Gotobed pulled out his watch and seemed to study it carefully.
"I am sorry for your loss, Mr. Rugge, but I have a meeting in the
City. I cannot reimburse you for your L100, but I can offer you this."
He pulled out a L5 note and carelessly tossed it to Mr. Rugge. Mr.
Gotobed rang the bell violently. "Please show Mr. Rugge to the door
now." The pupa in some forms and more toward the south suspends itself
on something like a piece of grass close to the earth, which really
helps when the weather is harsh.