I sent "Poganuc People" to you and Mrs. Holmes as being among the few who know those old days.
It is an extremely quiet story for these sensational days, when heaven and earth seem to be
racked for a thrill; but as I get old I do love to think of those quiet, simple times when
there was not a poor person in the parish, and the changing glories of the year were the only
spectacle. We, that is the professor and myself, have been reading with much interest Motley's
Memoir. That was a man to be proud of, a beauty, too (by your engraving), I never had the pleasure
of a personal acquaintance.

I feel with you that we have come into the land of leave-taking. Hardly a paper but records
the death of some of Mr. Stowe's associates. But the river is not so black as it seems, and
there are clear days when the opposite shore is plainly visible, and now and then we catch
a strain of music, perhaps even a gesture of recognition. They are thinking of us, without
doubt, on the other side. My daughters and I have been reading "Elsie Venner" again. Elsie
is one of my especial friends,--poor, dear child!--and all your theology in that book I subscribe
to with both hands.

Does not the Bible plainly tell us of a time when there shall be no more pain? That is to be
the end and crown of the Messiah's mission, when God shall wipe all tears away. My face is
set that way, and yours, too, I trust and believe.

Mr. Stowe sends hearty and affectionate remembrance both to you and Mrs. Holmes, and I am,
as ever, truly yours,

H, B, STOWE.

About this time Mrs. Stowe paid a visit to her brother Charles, at Newport, Fla., and, continuing
her journey to New Orleans, was made to feel how little of bitterness towards her was felt
by the best class of Southerners, In both New Orleans and Tallahassee she was warmly welcomed,
and tendered public receptions that gave equal pleasure to her and to the throngs of cultivated
people who attended them. She was also greeted everywhere with intense enthusiasm by the colored
people, who, whenever they knew of her coming, thronged the railway stations in order to obtain
a glimpse of her whom they venerated above all women.

The return to her Mandarin home each succeeding winter was always a source of intense pleasure
to this true lover of nature in its brightest and tenderest moods. Each recurring season was
filled with new delights. In December, 1879, she writes to her son, now married and settled
as a minister in Saco, Me.:--

DEAR CHILDREN,--Well, we have stepped from December to June, and this morning is sunny and
dewy, with a fresh sea-breeze giving life to the air. I have just been out to cut a great bunch
of roses and lilies, though the garden is grown into such a jungle that I could hardly get
about in it. The cannas, and dwarf bananas, and roses are all tangled together, so that I can
hardly thread my way among them. I never in my life saw anything range and run rampant over
the ground as cannas do. The ground is littered with fallen oranges, and the place looks shockingly
untidy, but so beautiful that I am quite willing to forgive its disorder.

We got here Wednesday evening about nine o'clock, and found all the neighbors waiting to welcome
us on the wharf. The Meads, and Cranes, and Webbs, and all the rest were there, while the black
population was in a frenzy of joy. Your father is quite well. The sea had its usual exhilarating
effect upon him. Before we left New York he was quite meek, and exhibited such signs of grace
and submission that I had great hopes of him. He promised to do exactly as I told him, and
stated that he had entire confidence in my guidance. What woman couldn't call such a spirit
evidence of being prepared for speedy translation? I was almost afraid he could not be long
for this world. But on the second day at sea his spirits rose, and his appetite reasserted
itself. He declared in loud tones how well he felt, and quite resented my efforts to take care
of him. I reminded him of his gracious vows and promises in the days of his low spirits, but
to no effect. The fact is, his self-will has not left him yet, and I have now no fear of his
immediate translation. He is going to preach for us this morning.

The last winter passed in this well-loved Southern home was that of 1883-84, for the following
season Professor Stowe's health was in too precarious a state to permit him to undertake the
long journey from Hartford. By this time one of Mrs. Stowe's fondest hopes had been realized;
and, largely through her efforts, Mandarin had been provided with a pretty little Episcopal
church, to which was attached a comfortable rectory, and over which was installed a regular
clergy- man.

In January, 1884, Mrs. Stowe writes:--

"Mandarin looks very gay and airy now with its new villas, and our new church and rectory.
Our minister is perfect. I wish you could know him. He wants only physical strength. In everything
else he is all one could ask.

"It is a bright, lovely morning, and four orange-pickers are busy gathering our fruit. Our
trees on the bluff have done better than any in Florida.

"This winter I study nothing but Christ's life. First I read Farrar's account and went over
it carefully. Now I am reading Geikie. It keeps my mind steady, and helps me to bear the languor
and pain, of which I have more than usual this winter."

This biography would be signally incomplete without some mention of the birth, childhood, early
associations, and very peculiar and abnormal psychological experiences of Professor Stowe.
Aside from the fact of Dr. Stowe's being Mrs. Stowe's husband, and for this reason entitled
to notice in any sketch of her life, however meagre, he is the original of the "visionary boy"
in "Oldtown Folks;" and "Oldtown Fireside Stories" embody the experiences of his childhood
and youth among the grotesque and original characters of his native town.

March 26, 1882, Professor Stowe wrote the following characteristic letter to Mrs. Lewes:--

MRS. LEWES,--I fully sympathize with you in your disgust with Hume and the professing mediums
generally.

Hume spent his boyhood in my father's native town, among my relatives and acquaintances, and
he was a disagreeable, nasty boy. But he certainly has qualities which science has not yet
explained, and some of his doings are as real as they are strange. My interest in the subject
of spiritualism arises from the fact of my own experience, more than sixty years ago, in my
early childhood. I then never thought of questioning the objective reality of all I saw, and
supposed that everybody else had the same experience. Of what this experience was you may gain
some idea from certain passages in "Oldtown Folks."

The same experiences continue yet, but with serious doubts as to the objectivity of the scenes
exhibited. I have noticed that people who have remarkable and minute answers to prayer, such
as Stilling, Franke, Lavater, are for the most part of this peculiar temperament. Is it absurd
to suppose that some peculiarity in the nervous system, in the connecting link between soul
and body, may bring some, more than others, into an almost abnormal contact with the spirit-world
(for example, Jacob Boehme and Swedenborg), and that, too, without correcting their faults,
or making them morally better than others? Allow me to say that I have always admired the working
of your mind, there is about it such a perfect uprightness and uncalculating honesty. I think
you are a better Christian without church or theology than most people are with both, though
I am, and always have been in the main, a Calvinist of the Jonathan Edwards school. God bless
you! I have a warm side for Mr. Lewes on account of his Goethe labors.

Goethe has been my admiration for more than forty years. In 1830 I got hold of his "Faust,"
and for two gloomy, dreary November days, while riding through the woods of New Hampshire in
an old-fashioned stagecoach, to enter upon a professorship in Dartmouth College, I was perfectly
dissolved by it.

Sincerely yours,

C. E. STOWE.

In a letter to Mrs. Stowe, written June 24, 1872, Mrs. Lewes alludes to Professor Stowe's letter
as follows: "Pray give my special thanks to the professor for his letter. His handwriting,
which does really look like Arabic,--a very graceful character, surely,--happens to be remarkably
legible to me, and I did not hesitate over a single word. Some of the words, as expressions
of fellowship, were very precious to me, and I hold it very good of him to write to me that
best sort of encouragement. I was much impressed with the fact--which you have told me--that
he was the original of the "visionary boy" in "Oldtown Folks;" and it must be deeply interesting
to talk with him on his experience. Perhaps I am inclined, under the influence of the facts,
physiological and psychological, which have been gathered of late years, to give larger place
to the interpretation of vision-seeing as subjective than the professor would approve. It seems
difficult to limit--at least to limit with any precision--the possibility of confounding sense
by impressions derived from inward conditions with those which are directly dependent on external
stimulus. In fact, the division between within and without in this sense seems to become every
year a more subtle and bewildering problem."

In 1834, while Mr. Stowe was a professor in Lane Theological Seminary at Cincinnati, Ohio,
he wrote out a history of his youthful adventures in the spirit-world, from which the following
extracts are taken:--

"I have often thought I would communicate to some scientific physician a particular account
of a most singular delusion under which I lived from my earliest infancy till the fifteenth
or sixteenth year of my age, and the effects of which remain very distinctly now that I am
past thirty.

"The facts are of such a nature as to be indelibly impressed upon my mind they appear to me
to be curious, and well worth the attention of the psychologist. I regard the occurrences in
question as the more remarkable because I cannot discover that I possess either taste or talent
for fiction or poetry. I have barely imagination enough to enjoy, with a high degree of relish,
the works of others in this department of literature, but have never felt able or disposed
to engage in that sort of writing myself. On the contrary, my style has always been remarkable
for its dry, matter-of-fact plainness: my mind has been distinguished for its quickness and
adaptedness to historical and literary investigations, for ardor and perseverance in pursuit
of the knowledge of facts,--eine verständige Richtung, as the Germans would say,--rather than
for any other quality; and the only talent of a higher kind which I am conscious of possessing
is a turn for accurate observation of men and things, and a certain broad humor and drollery.

"From the hour of my birth I have been constitutionally feeble, as were my parents before me,
and my nervous system easily excitable. With care, however, I have kept myself in tolerable
health, and my life has been an industrious one, for my parents were poor and I have always
been obliged to labor for my livelihood.

"With these preliminary remarks, I proceed to the curious details of my psychological history.
As early as I can remember anything, I can remember observing a multitude of animated and active
objects, which I could see with perfect distinctness, moving about me, and could sometimes,
though seldom, hear them make a rustling noise, or other articulate sounds; but I could never
touch them. They were in all respects independent of the sense of touch, and incapable of being
obstructed in any way by the intervention of material objects; I could see them at any distance,
and through any intervening object, with as much ease and distinctness as if they were in the
room with me, and directly before my eyes. I could see them passing through the floors, and
the ceilings, and the walls of the house, from one apartment to another, in all directions,
without a door, or a keyhole, or crevice being open to admit them. I could follow them with
my eyes to any distance, or directly through or just beneath the surface, or up and down, in
the midst of boards and timbers and bricks, or whatever else would stop the motion or intercept
the visibleness of all other objects. These appearances occasioned neither surprise nor alarm,
except when they assumed some hideous and frightful form, or exhibited some menacing gesture,
for I became acquainted with them, as soon as with any of the objects of sense. As to the reality
of their existence and the harmlessness of their character, I knew no difference between them
and any other of the objects which met my eye. They were as familiar to me as the forms of
my parents and my brother; they made up a part of my daily existence, and were as really the
subjects of my consciousness as the little bench on which I sat in the corner by my mother's
knee, or the wheels and sticks and strings with which I amused myself upon the floor. I indeed
recognized a striking difference between them and the things which I could feel and handle,
but to me this difference was no more a matter of surprise than that which I observed between
my mother and the black woman who so often came to work for her; or between my infant brother
and the little spotted dog Brutus of which I was so fond. There was no time, or place, or circumstance,
in which they did not occasionally make their appearance. Solitude and silence, however, were
more favorable to their appearance than company and conversation. They were more pleased with
candle-light than the daylight. They were most numerous, distinct, and active when I was alone
and in the dark, especially when my mother had laid me in bed and returned to her own room
with the candle. At such times, I always expected the company of my serial visitors, and counted
upon it to amuse me till I dropped asleep. Whenever they failed to make their appearance, as
was sometimes the case, I felt lonely and discontented. I kept up a lively conversation with
them,--not by language or by signs, for the attempt on my part to speak or move would at once
break the charm and drive them away in a fret, but by a peculiar sort of spiritual intercommunion.

"When their attention was directed towards me, I could feel and respond to all their thoughts
and feelings, and was conscious that they could in the same manner feel and respond to mine.
Sometimes they would take no notice of me, but carry on a brisk conversation among themselves,
principally by looks and gestures, with now and then an audible word. In fact, there were but
few with whom I was very familiar. These few were much more constant and uniform in their visits
than the great multitude, who were frequently changing, and too much absorbed in their own
concerns to think much of me. I scarcely know how I can give an idea of their form and general
appearance, for there are no objects in the material world with which I can compare them, and
no language adapted to an accurate description of their peculiarities. They exhibited all possible
combinations of size, shape, proportion, and color, but their most usual appearance was with
the human form and proportion, but under a shadowy outline that seemed just ready to melt into
the invisible air, and sometimes liable to the most sudden and grotesque changes, and with
a uniform darkly bluish color spotted with brown, or brownish white. This was the general appearance
of the multitude; but there were many exceptions to this description, particularly among my
more welcome and familiar visitors, as will be seen in the sequel."

"Besides these rational and generally harmless beings, there was another set of objects which
never varied in their form or qualities, and were always mischievous and terrible. The fact
of their appearance depended very much on the state of my health and feelings. If I was well
and cheerful they seldom troubled me; but when sick or depressed they were sure to obtrude
their hateful presence upon me. These were a sort of heavy clouds floating about overhead,
of a black color, spotted with brown, in the shape of a very flaring inverted tunnel without
a nozzle, and from ten to thirty or forty feet in diameter. They floated from place to place
in great numbers, and in all directions, with a strong and steady progress, but with a tremulous,
quivering, internal motion that agitated them in every part.

"Whenever they appproached, the rational phantoms were thrown into great consternation; and
well it might be, for if a cloud touched any part of one of the rational phantoms it immediately
communicated its own color and tremulous motion to the part it touched.

"In spite of all the efforts and convulsive struggles of the unhappy victim, this color and
motion slowly, but steadily and uninteruptedly, proceeded to diffuse itself over every part
of the body, and as fast as it did so the body was drawn into the cloud and became a part of
its substance. It was indeed a fearful sight to see the contortions, the agonizing efforts,
of the poor creatures who had been touched by one of these awful clouds, and were dissolving
and melting into it by inches without the possibility of escape or resistance.

"This was the only visible object that had the least power over the phantoms, and this was
evidently composed of the same material as themselves. The forms and actions of all these phantoms
varied very much with the state of my health and animal spirits, but I never could discover
that the surrounding material objects had any influence upon them, except in this one particular,
namely, if I saw them in a neat, well furnished room, there was a neatness and polish in their
form and motions; and, on the contrary, if I was in an unfinished, rough apartment, there was
a corresponding rudeness and roughness in my aerial visitors. A corresponding difference was
visible when I saw them in the woods or in the meadows, upon the water or upon the ground,
in the air or among the stars."

"Every different apartment which I occupied had a different set of phantoms, and they always
had a degree of correspondence to the circumstances in which they were seen. (It should be
noted, however, that it was not so much the place where the phantoms themselves appeared to
me to be, that affected their forms and movements, as the place in which I myself actually
was while observing them. The apparent locality of the phantoms, it is true, had some influence,
but my own actual locality had much more.)"

"Thus far I have attempted only a general outline of these curious experiences. I will now
proceed to a detailed account of several particular incidents, for the sake of illustrating
the general statements already made. I select a few from manifestations without number. I am
able to ascertain dates from the following circumstances:--

"I was born in April, 1802, and my father died in July, 1808, after suffering for more than
a year from a lingering organic disease. Between two and three years before his death he removed
from the house in which I was born to another at a little distance from it. What occurred,
therefore, before my father's last sickness, must have taken place during the first five years
of my life, and whatever took place before the removal of the family must have taken place
during the first three years of my life. Before the removal of the family I slept in a small
upper chamber in the front part of the house, where I was generally alone for several hours
in the evening and morning. Adjoining this room, and opening into it by a very small door,
was a low, dark, narrow, unfinished closet, which was open on the other side into a ruinous,
old chaise-house. This closet was a famous place for the gambols of the phantoms, but of their
forms and actions I do not now retain any very distinct recollection. I only remember that
I was very careful not to do anything that I thought would be likely to offend them; yet otherwise
their presence caused me no uneasiness, and was not at all disagreeable to me.

"The first incident of which I have a distinct recollection was the following:--

"One night, as I was lying alone in my chamber with my little dog Brutus snoring beside my
bed, there came out of the closet a very large Indian woman and a very small Indian man, with
a huge bass-viol between them. The woman was dressed in a large, loose, black gown, secured
around her waist by a belt of the same material, and on her head she wore a high, dark gray
fur cap, shaped somewhat like a lady's muff, ornamented with a row of covered buttons in front,
and open towards the bottom, showing a red lining. The man was dressed in a shabby, black-colored
overcoat and a little round, black hat that fitted closely to his head. They took no notice
of me, but were rather ill-natured towards each other, and seemed to be disputing for the possession
of the bass-viol. The man snatched it away and struck upon it a few harsh, hollow notes, which
I distinctly heard, and which seemed to vibrate through my whole body, with a strange, stinging
sensation The woman then took it and appeared to play very intently and much to her own satisfaction,
but without producing any sound that was perceptible by me. They soon left the chamber, and
I saw them go down into the back kitchen, where they sat and played and talked with my mother.
It was only when the man took the bow that I could hear the harsh, abrupt, disagreeable sounds
of the instrument. At length they arose, went out of the back door, and sprang upon a large
heap of straw and unthreshed beans, and disappeared with a strange, rumbling sound. This vision
was repeated night after night with scarcely any variation while we lived in that house, and
once, and once only, after the family had removed to the other house. The only thing that seemed
to me unaccountable and that excited my curiosity was that there should be such a large heap
of straw and beans before the door every night, when I could see nothing of it in the daytime.
I frequently crept out of bed and stole softly down into the kitchen, and peeped out of the
door to see if it was there very early in the morning.

"I attempted to make some inquiries of my mother, but as I was not as yet very skillful in
the use of language, I could get no satisfaction out of her answers, and could see that my
questions seemed to distress her. At first she took little notice of what I said, regarding
it no doubt as the meaningless prattle of a thoughtless child. My persistence, however, seemed
to alarm her, and I suppose that she feared for my sanity. I soon desisted from asking anything
further, and shut myself more and more within myself. One night, very soon after the removal,
when the house was still, and all the family were in bed, these unearthly musicians once made
their appearance in the kitchen of the new house, and after looking around peevishly, and sitting
with a discontented frown and in silence, they arose and went out of the back door, and sprang
on a pile of cornstalks, and I saw them no more.

"Our new dwelling was a low-studded house of only one story, and, instead of an upper chamber,
I now occupied a bedroom that opened into the kitchen. Within this bedroom, directly on the
left hand of the door as you entered from the kitchen, was the staircase which led to the garret;
and, as the room was unfinished, some of the boards which inclosed the staircase were too short,
and left a considerable space between them and the ceiling. One of these open spaces was directly
in front of my bed, so that when I lay upon my pillow my face was opposite to it. Every night,
after I had gone to bed and the candle was removed, a very pleasant-looking human face would
peer at me over the top of that board, and gradually press forward his head, neck, shoulders,
and finally his whole body as far as the waist, through the opening, and then, smiling upon
me with great good-nature, would withdraw in the same manner in which he had entered. He was
a great favorite of mine; for though we neither of us spoke, we perfectly understood, and were
entirely devoted to, each other. It is a singular fact that the features of this favorite phantom
bore a very close resemblance to those of a boy older than myself whom I feared and hated:
still the resemblance was so strong that I called him by the same name, Harvey.

"Harvey's visits were always expected and always pleasant; but sometimes there were visitations
of another sort, odious and frightful. One of these I will relate as a specimen of the rest."

"One night, after I had retired to bed and was looking for Harvey, I observed an unusual number
of the tunnel-shaped tremulous clouds already described, and they seemed intensely black and
strongly agitated. This alarmed me exceedingly, and I had a terrible feeling that something
awful was going to happen. It was not long before I saw Harvey at his accustomed place, cautiously
peeping at me through the aperture, with an expression of pain and terror on his countenance.
He seemed to warn me to be on my guard, but was afraid to put his head into the room lest he
should be touched by one of the clouds, which were every moment growing thicker and more numerous.
Harvey soon withdrew and left me alone. On turning my eyes towards the left-hand wall of the
room, I thought I saw at an immense distance below me the regions of the damned, as I had heard
them pictured in sermons. From this awful world of horror the tunnel-shaped clouds were ascending,
and I perceived that they were the principal instruments of torture in these gloomy abodes.
These regions were at such an immense distance below me that I could obtain but a very indistinct
view of the inhabitants, who were very numerous and exceedingly active. Near the surface of
the earth, and as it seemed to me but a little distance from my bed, I saw four or five sturdy,
resolute devils endeavoring to carry off an unprincipled and dissipated man in the neighborhood,
by the name of Brown, of whom I had stood in terror for years. These devils I saw were very
different from the common representations. They had neither red faces, nor horns, nor hoofs,
nor tails. They were in all respects stoutly built and well-dressed gentlemen. The only peculiarity
that I noted in their appearance was as to their heads. Their faces and necks were perfectly
bare, without hair or flesh, and of a uniform sky-blue color, like the ashes of burnt paper
before it falls to pieces, and of a certain glossy smoothness."

"As I looked on, full of eagerness, the devils struggled to force Brown down with them, and
Brown struggled with the energy of desperation to save himself from their grip, and it seemed
that the human was likely to prove too strong for the infernal. In this emergency one of the
devils, panting for breath and covered with perspiration, beckoned to a strong, thick cloud
that seemed to understand him perfectly, and, whirling up to Brown, touched his hand. Brown
resisted stoutly, and struck out right and left at the cloud most furiously, but the usual
effect was produced,--the hand grew black, quivered, and seemed to be melting into the cloud;
then the arm, by slow degrees, and then the head and shoulders. At this instant Brown, collecting
all his energies for one desperate effort, sprang at once into the centre of the cloud, tore
it asunder, and descended to the ground, exclaiming, with a hoarse, furious voice that grated
on my ear, 'There, I've got out; dam'me if I haven't!' This was the first word that had been
spoken through the whole horrible scene. It was the first time I had ever seen a cloud fail
to produce its appropriate result, and it terrified me so that I trembled from head to foot.
The devils, however, did not seem to be in the least discouraged. One of them, who seemed to
be the leader, went away and quickly returned bringing with him an enormous pair of rollers
fixed in an iron frame, such as are used in iron-mills for the purpose of rolling out and slitting
bars of iron, except instead of being turned by machinery, each roller was turned by an immense
crank. Three of the devils now seized Brown and put his feet to the rollers, while two others
stood, one at each crank, and began to roll him in with a steady strain that was entirely irresistible.
Not a word was spoken, not a sound was heard; but the fearful struggles and terrified, agonizing
looks of Brown were more than I could endure. I sprang from my bed and ran through the kitchen
into the room where my parents slept, and entreated that they would permit me to spend the
remainder of the night with them. After considerable parleying they assured me that nothing
could hurt me, and advised me to go back to bed. I replied that I was not afraid of their hurting
me, but I couldn't bear to see them acting so with C. Brown. 'Poh! poh! you foolish boy,' replied
my father, sternly. 'You've only been dreaming; go right back to bed, or I shall have to whip
you.' Knowing that there was no other alternative, I trudged back through the kitchen with
all the courage I could muster, cautiously entered my room, where I found everything quiet,
there being neither cloud, nor devil, nor anything of the kind to be seen, and getting into
bed I slept quietly till morning. The next day I was rather sad and melancholy, but kept all
my troubles to myself, through fear of Brown. This happened before my father's sickness, and
consequently between the four and six years of my age."

"During my father's sickness and after his death I lived with my grandmother; and when I had
removed to her house I forever lost sight of Harvey. I still continued to sleep alone for the
most part, but in a neatly furnished upper chamber. Across the corner of the chamber, opposite
to and at a little distance from the head of my bed, there was a closet in the form of an old-fashioned
buffet. After going to bed, on looking at the door of this closet, I could see at a great distance
from it a pleasant meadow, terminated by a beautiful little grove. Out of this grove, and across
this meadow, a charming little female figure would advance, about eight inches high and exquisitely
proportioned, dressed in a loose black silk robe, with long, smooth black hair parted up her
head and hanging loose over her shoulders. She would come forward with a slow and regular step,
becoming more distinctly visible as she approached nearer, till she came even with the surface
of the closet door, when she would smile upon me, raise her hands to her head and draw them
down on each side of her face, suddenly turn round, and go off at a rapid trot. The moment
she turned I could see a good-looking mulatto man, rather smaller than herself, following directly
in her wake and trotting off after her. This was generally repeated two or three times before
I went to sleep. The features of the mulatto bore some resemblance to those of the Indian man
with the bass-viol, but were much more mild and agreeable."

"I awoke one bright, moonlight night, and found a large, full-length human skeleton of an ashy-blue
color in bed with me! I screamed out with fright, and soon summoned the family around me. I
refused to tell the cause of my alarm, but begged permission to occupy another bed, which was
granted.

"For the remainder of the night I slept but little; but I saw upon the window-stools companies
of little fairies, about six inches high, in white robes, gamboling and dancing with incessant
merriment. Two of them, a male and female, rather taller than the rest, were dignified with
a crown and sceptre. They took the kindest notice of me, smiled upon me with great benignity,
and seemed to assure me of their protection. I was soothed and cheered by their presence, though
after all there was a sort of sinister and selfish expression in their countenances which prevented
my placing implicit confidence in them.

"Up to this time I had never doubted the real existence of these phantoms, nor had I ever suspected
that other people had not seen them as distinctly as myself. I now, however, began to discover
with no little anxiety that my friends had little or no knowledge of the aerial beings among
whom I have spent my whole life; that my allusions to them were not understood, and all complaints
respecting them were laughed at. I had never been disposed to say much about them, and this
discovery confirmed me in my silence. It did not, however, affect my own belief, or lead me
to suspect that my imaginations were not realities.

"During the whole of this period I took great pleasure in walking out alone, particularly in
the evening. The most lonely fields, the woods, and the banks of the river, and other places
most completely secluded, were my favorite resorts, for there I could enjoy the sight of innumerable
aerial beings of all sorts, without interruption. Every object, even every shaking leaf, seemed
to me to be animated by some living soul, whose nature in some degree corresponded to its habitation.
I spent much of my life in these solitary rambles; there were particular places to which I
gave names, and visited them at regular intervals. Moonlight was particularly agreeable to
me, but most of all I enjoyed a thick, foggy night. At times, during these walks, I would be
excessively oppressed by an indefinite and deep feeling of melancholy. Without knowing why,
I would be so unhappy as to wish myself annihilated, and suddenly it would occur to me that
my friends at home were suffering some dreadful calamity, and so vivid would be the impression,
that I would hasten home with all speed to see what had taken place. At such seasons I felt
a morbid love for my friends that would almost burn up my soul, and yet, at the least provocation
from them, I would fly into an uncontrollable passion and foam like a little fury. I was called
a dreadful-tempered boy; but the Lord knows that I never occasioned pain to any animal, whether
human or brutal, without suffering untold agonies in consequence of it. I cannot, even now,
without feelings of deep sorrow, call to mind the alternate fits of corroding melancholy, irritation,
and bitter remorse which I then endured. These fits of melancholy were most constant and oppressive
during the autumnal months.

