"Well," said Lawler, gently; "he need not know. If you are afraid to face public opinion, to
show by your actions that you have nothing to be ashamed of, I'll take you to the Circle L,
just as soon as we can get through. We'll time ourselves to get there at night. No one need
know, and you can tell Warden that you were caught in the storm and drifted to the Circle L,
where you stayed with my mother. I can come back here and no one will ever know the difference."

"I don't want to see your mother!" she sneered. "I'd be afraid she would be something like
you! Ugh! I hate you!"

"There is only one other way," smiled Lawler. "I know Keller, the owner of the Willets Hotel,
very intimately. I can take you there, at night--after the storm breaks. No one need know.
You can say you were at the hotel all the time. And Keller will support your word."

"I presume I shall have to go to Willets--since I have to lie!" she said, wrathfully.

"Yes," said Lawler incisively; "it takes courage to be truthful, Miss Wharton. But if a person
always tells the truth----"

"Shut up!" she said savagely; "you make me sick!" She glared malignantly at him. "Ugh, I positively
loathe you! I must have been crazy when I thought I saw something in you!" She paused for an
instant to get her breath, and then she resumed, vindictively:

"I hope they arrest you for killing those two men--Link and Givens. I hope they hang you. And
they will hang you, because you can't prove you acted in self-defense. You'll be sorry you
didn't marry me when you realize that I might have saved you by telling the truth about the fight!"

"Well," he said; "you can't testify without admitting you were here, you know."

"And I will never tell!" she declared; "I will never admit it!" she added, exultingly. "You'll
change your mind about marrying me--you'll have to, to save your neck!"

Lawler shook his head negatively.

"You wouldn't marry me to save your life?" asked the girl, incredulously.

"Not to save my life, Miss Wharton."

"Well," she said slowly; "you're a damned fool!"

Lawler smiled and turned away. He heard Della moving about in the cabin, but he did not look
around.

But later, after there had been a deep silence for a time, he ventured a backward glance. During
the day he had kept the dividing blanket rolled up out of the way, fastening it with two loops
that he had suspended from the ceiling. The blanket was now down--it was the first time Della
had touched it.

Lawler smiled, pulled a chair over near the fireplace, rolled a cigarette, and puffed slowly
at it, reflecting that life in the cabin would now be more monotonous than ever.

Della did not get out of her bunk during the day. She ate nothing, nor did she reply to Lawler
when he invited her to partake of the food he had prepared.

Late that afternoon Lawler noted a glow of light coming through the north window. He went to
the door, opened it and looked out. The snow had ceased and the wind had gone down. Far over
in the west a cold sun, hanging its rim on a mountain peak, bathed the world with a shimmering,
glittering, blinding light.

Lawler went outside and shielding his eyes with his hands, peered out over the gleaming waste.
He noted that the snow had drifted much, but that there were ridges where no snow had settled,
as well as vast sections of plain where the wind had swept the snow clear. There would be no
difficulty in reaching Willets, for the wind that was coming over the plains now was mild--almost
warm.

He went inside, told Della, and began to make preparations for the ride. And later that night,
moving swiftly northward, under straggling clouds that obscured the moon, the two journeyed--Della
swathed in clothing that assured her of warmth, and still preserving a sullen silence; Lawler
riding ahead, breaking trail.

CHAPTER XXIV

DELLA'S HANDKERCHIEF

Dawn was just breaking when Lawler dropped from Red King at the windbreak near the line cabin.
He put the big horse in the dugout, closed the dugout door and entered the cabin. Then he breathed
a sigh of relief.

There were still some glowing embers in the fireplace, and he soon had a roaring fire, in front
of which he stood for a while, meditating.

He had got Della Wharton into the Willets Hotel without, he felt certain, attracting attention.
For when they had ridden into town--taking the back way in order to avoid any sleepless citizens
that might be about--it was past midnight. Lawler had timed himself to reach town at about
that hour, knowing that with the exception of a brothel or two, Willets would be dark.

He had been fortunate. At his first knock on the rear door of the hotel, Keller had appeared;
and Keller had instantly grasped the situation--though he plainly told Della that she was "goin'
to a whole lot of unnecessary trouble." "Why, good Lord, ma'am, I reckon you had a right to
hole up with Lawler! Nobody'd be blamin' you. They's a dozen men in this town that would make
a colander out of anybody that'd hint things about a deal like that. Lawsy, ma'am, folks has
got sense, ain't they? But if you doubt 'em, I reckon we can take care of you."

Lawler prepared and ate breakfast. It had been a tiresome ride, and after eating, knowing that
there was no occasion for haste in his return to the Circle L--except that his mother would
wonder over his whereabouts--he stretched out in one of the lower bunks--the one he had occupied
during Della's stay in the cabin.

He had not barred the door; and when, some hours later he awoke, he saw half a dozen men in
the cabin. They were standing near the door, watching him. Foremost among them was Gary Warden.

Lawler swung around in the bunk and sat on its edge, facing the men. They were Two Diamond
men, for he recognized some of them.

Lawler got to his feet. He saw no friendliness in the faces of the men; and Warden was pale,
scowling.

But Lawler smiled. "Looking for something, boys?" he said.

"We're looking for two men and a woman, Lawler. Have you seen anything of them?"

"I've seen two men, Warden; but no woman."

Warden's eyes quickened. Some color surged into his face.

"How long have you been here, Lawler?"

"Since the day the storm broke. Davies and Harris went to town for a spree, and I've been substituting
for them."

He felt a savage amusement over Warden's attempt to conceal his disappointment. He could see
that the man was consumed with curiosity over the outcome of the fence cutting, though he dared
not voice it.

"Lawler," said Warden; "we've lost two men--Link and Givens; and Della Wharton--who was staying
at the Two Diamond."

"I've seen no woman, Warden. But I've seen Link and Givens. You'll find them out by the windbreak.
I had to kill them."

Lawler saw the men behind Warden grow rigid; Warden's face grew ghastly.

Lawler's smile had gone. He was coldly alert, watching the men behind Lawler, aware that his
news was a shock to them; divining they would not hesitate to do violence if an explanation
was not quickly offered.

But there was cold malice in Lawler's heart toward Warden; and he stood, silent, watchful,
until Warden recovered from his astonishment. He was determined to compel Warden to ask the
question that, plainly, was in his mind.

And at last Warden asked it:

"What did you kill them for?"

"I caught them cutting my fence, Warden. At just about the time the storm struck. I brought
them here--after lifting their guns. I intended to take them to Sheriff Moreton, at Willets.
But during the night I sent them out for wood, and when they re-entered the cabin they attacked
me--Link with an axe, and Givens with a piece of cordwood. You can see where the axe landed--where
it stuck in the floor, when Link missed me as I opened the door for him."

The door opened and the men filed out, eager to ascertain the truth of Lawler's story. Warden
did not move; but his eyes, the expression of his face, indicated that he did not doubt Lawler's
story. But he sought to discredit it.

"What would my men cut your fence for, Lawler?"

Lawler laughed. He had no intention of telling Warden about the confession the men had signed.

"You ought to know, Warden--they were your men."

"Meaning that I sent them to cut the fence?" demanded Warden. His face was red with a wrath
that was plainly artificial, or that had been aroused over the knowledge that Link and Givens
had failed.

"Meaning whatever you choose to think I mean, Warden," said Lawler coldly. "I'll make my explanations
to the sheriff."

Warden had quickly recovered his composure. It was evident from Lawler's manner that Link and
Givens had not talked. He had been afraid they might have told Lawler that he had ordered them
to cut the fence. If they had talked, Lawler would have mentioned it before this--any man would,
for no man could have resisted the inevitable impulse to exult over his success in thwarting
the men, of bringing confusion upon the author of the scheme. That was what Warden would have
done, and he believed any man would have done it.

He drew himself erect and walked slowly to the fireplace; where he halted, turned, and smiled
at Lawler--a smile full of malice.

"Your explanation of the killing of Link and Givens is a mighty flimsy one, Lawler, don't you
think? Moreton might want a witness,--eh?"

"There was no witness, Warden." Lawler had not turned. He was watching the door, for he expected
the Two Diamond men to enter at any instant, and he knew they would deeply resent the killing
of their companions. He did not intend to be taken by surprise.

Warden, standing in front of the fireplace, noted the blanket suspended from the ceiling, swinging
between the two tiers of bunks. He started, his face paled, and he looked searchingly at Lawler.
And then, observing that Lawler was paying no attention to him, he moved slowly toward one
of the bunks--the one Miss Wharton had occupied--noting the disturbed bedclothing. A white
piece of cloth, crumpled and soiled, lay on a gray blanket. He took it up swiftly, stuck it
into the front of his heavy coat and turned again toward the fireplace. With his back to Lawler
he swiftly examined the cloth he had picked up. It was a handkerchief--a woman's--and in one
corner of it was an embroidered monogram containing the letters "D.W." It was Della's--he had
seen that and others like it, many times, in her hands and at the Two Diamond, on the wash line.

For a long time, with his back to Lawler, Warden fought to control the terrible jealousy that
the finding of the handkerchief had aroused in him. His face was contorted with passion; his
eyes were aflame with it. He had hated Lawler before; now the passion was a malignant poison
that burned, through his veins like fire.

He did not trust himself to speak--his voice would have betrayed him. He walked past Lawler,
sneering silently as he reached the door, looking back as he opened it and stood on the threshold,
muttering hoarsely:

"You'll hang for this, Lawler--damn you!"

Lawler heard the Two Diamond men ride away, and he went to the door at the sound they made
and saw they were carrying the bodies of Link and Givens--they were lashed to their horses,
which the Two Diamond men had taken from the dugout. He watched them out of sight.

It was only an hour or so later when Davies and Harris clattered to the door of the cabin.
They were red and embarrassed, and confessed they had been intoxicated. But they were much
relieved when they found that Lawler had headed the herd into the valley; and they were filled
with rage when Lawler told them of the fence cutting and the killing of the two men. And they
were delighted when Lawler told them to go on duty at the cabin, not even mentioning their
dereliction.

Half an hour after the appearance of Davies and Harris half a dozen Circle L men rode up, eager-eyed,
overjoyed at finding their "boss". They were covered with snow from their ride up the valley,
through the big drifts they had encountered, but the glow in their eyes when they saw Lawler
was safe indicated they had forgotten the rigors of the ride.

They told him the herd had reached the shelters and that few of the cattle were missing; and
a little later, with Lawler riding with them, they set out for the Circle L, shouting and laughing
like schoolboys.

Shorty, the tawny-haired giant, was with them.

"Cuttin' fences, eh?" he said as he rode close to Lawler. "Well, they're sort of pickin' on
us, I reckon. First there's Blondy Antrim; an' now Link an' Givens cuttin' the fence. When
you goin' to cut loose an' give 'em hell, Boss?"

"Hell is closer than you think, Shorty," said Lawler, gravely.

CHAPTER XXV

IN WHICH A MAN PLOTS

When the storm broke Warden had shown by his actions that he was more concerned over Link and
Givens than over Della Wharton. He had told Singleton to ride the trail to Willets, to search
for the girl, while himself and several of the Two Diamond men started for the line cabin.
Singleton had left the Two Diamond in the early evening, while Warden had delayed his departure
until after midnight.

Singleton had made good time, and he reached Willets long before midnight. He made some inquiries,
discovering that Della Wharton had not been seen; and shortly after midnight he was in the
low, squatty stable in the rear of the Wolf Saloon, saddling his horse for the return trip
to the Two Diamond. He was convinced that Della had not come to Willets.

He was about to lead the horse outside when he saw two horsemen riding through the drifts in
the rear of a building near the Willets Hotel. The light was not good, but Singleton would
have recognized Red King in any light, and he laughed exultantly as he saw the rider dismount.

Singleton abruptly closed the stable door and darted into the shadow of the stable. Then he
crouched, ran low behind a big drift, and gained the side of a building next to the Willets
Hotel. He was close to the two riders, and he grinned maliciously when he saw that one of them
was a woman.

He heard Lawler knock on the rear door of the hotel; and he crouched in the shadow of the building
until Lawler and the woman entered. But just before the two entered, Singleton caught sight
of the woman's face as she turned toward him for an instant and the dull light shone upon her.

He watched until Lawler came out again and rode away; and from behind another building on the
other side of the street he saw Lawler going directly south, which direction would take him
to Number One Circle L line camp.

Then Singleton mounted his horse and followed the trail taken by Lawler. By the time Singleton
struck Lawler's trail, Lawler was out of sight beyond a low ridge, and Singleton leisurely
examined the tracks in the snow.

He discovered that two sets of tracks led in the direction Lawler was taking. He followed them
for several miles, until there seemed to be no doubt that Della had been with Lawler at the
line camp; then he grinned and wheeled his horse toward the Two Diamond.

       *       *       *       *       *

Gary Warden was also following the two sets of tracks that led northward. He had come upon
them accidentally, while riding with one of his men slightly in advance of the others as they
went toward Willets, where Warden intended to take the bodies of Link and Givens. He had said
nothing to his companion regarding the tracks, though he noted the other saw them also, and
was studying them, puzzled.

"Them tracks ain't more'n half a dozen hours old," the man said once, tentatively. But receiving
no answer from Warden he said no more.

In places there were three sets of tracks--two going northward, and one leading back. Warden,
his eyes glowing malevolently, followed them until they took him into Willets. An hour later,
his face flushed with passion, he was in a little office with Sheriff Moreton, demanding Lawler's
arrest on a charge of murder.

Moreton, a slender man of medium height with a lean, strong face and keen, penetrating eyes,
had listened patiently to Warden's story.

"Lawler told you he killed 'em, eh? Well then, I reckon he must have--Lawler ain't in the habit
of lyin'. You got any witness that Lawler killed 'em, malicious? You've just got done hintin'
that Lawler said he shot 'em in self-defense. But you say he didn't. One man's word is as good
as another's in law, Mr. Warden--you got to remember that!"

"Then you won't do anything?" snapped Warden.

"I reckon I'll do somethin'," said the sheriff, drawlingly. "I'll have to see Lawler an' get
his side of it. An' if you charge Lawler with murder, I'll have to bring him in. But I'm warnin'
you that if you ain't got any witnesses to prove your charge, you ain't got no show of convictin'
him. An' Lawler's standin' is pretty high in this country, Warden--an' don't you forget it!"

Warden smiled derisively. "Well, he seems to have a friend in you, anyway. I'll investigate
a little before I file formal charges."

"It's a good idee--I'd do a lot of it," advised the sheriff. "An' then, when I'd done a lot
of it, I'd do some more--just to be sure I wasn't bitin' off more than I could chew!"

Warden left the sheriff's office, after turning the bodies of Link and Givens over to the official.
He sent his men to the Two Diamond, and spent some time at a window in the rear of the Wolf
Saloon, examining hoof prints on the snow in the vicinity of the Willets Hotel, a short distance
from the Wolf. He was in a vicious mood.

He noted that the three sets of tracks he had followed led to the rear of the hotel. They were
clear and distinct, for no other tracks were near them. His men and himself had evidently been
the first to reach town after the storm had abated--excepting the riders whose tracks he had
followed.

He was still at the window when he heard a step behind him, and saw Singleton approaching.

Singleton's eyes were gleaming with knowledge. He was breathing fast.

"I met the boys, headin' for the Two Diamond," he said. "They tell me Lawler downed Link an'
Givens--an' that Lawler caught 'em cuttin' the fence. An' Colter says he was ridin' with you
an' that you was followin' them tracks that led to town from that Circle L line cabin. Well,
that was a hot trail, Warden. She's there--in the hotel!"

"Who?" demanded Warden, his face paling, though he was convinced that what Singleton would
tell him would merely confirm his suspicions.

"Della Wharton!" declared Singleton. He related what he had seen the night before from the
stable in the rear of the Wolf; and he stood tense and stiff behind Warden as the latter glared
out of the window, his lips in a bestial pout.

Warden spoke at last, his voice dry and light and vibrant with cold fury.

"No women, Singleton; he told me he'd kill me if I dragged any of his women into this deal.
And now----"

"An' now he's drugged in the woman you've took a shine to," sympathized Singleton. He scratched
his head in puzzlement. "Hell's fire!" he added; "I didn't think that of Lawler. I ain't never
admired the cuss none--a damned sight less since he walloped me--but I didn't think he'd drag
another man's woman into a cabin like that, an'----"

"Bah! Shut up!" commanded Warden, glaring malignantly at the other.

"Sure; I reckon you don't like to think of it," said Singleton. "It would rile me some, too."

Aware that this was a matter which would not permit of even suggestion on his part, Singleton
soon found an excuse to take leave of Warden. And for an hour after Singleton's departure,
Warden stood at the window fighting for his composure. Then, when he had succeeded, he walked
out of the front door of the saloon and made his way down the street to the Willets Hotel.
He told Keller, the proprietor, about Miss Wharton's disappearance, and he succeeded in simulating
an excellent counterfeit of astonishment when Keller informed him that Miss Wharton was at
that moment up stairs in her room--that she had been at the hotel since the storm broke. He
pretended not to see the flush on Keller's face as he told the lie; and his greeting to Della
was distinguished by calm casualness.

Later, when Warden told her that the Two Diamond had been lonely without her, and that the
trail was in condition for travel, she readily agreed to accompany him. And, shortly after
noon they rode out of town together, Warden apparently in the best of humor over finding her
safe; Della elated over the success of the deception.

It was late when they reached the Two Diamond. Several of the men cheered delightedly when
they rode into the ranch yard; and Aunt Hannah was tearfully grateful.

However, twice during the evening meal, as they sat opposite each other, Della noted a look
of sullen preoccupation in Warden's eyes. And then, studying him covertly while she ate, she
observed that he was paler than usual; that his lips were straight and stiff, even when he
smiled; that he seemed to have little appetite and was restless and jerky.

Warden was suspicious--that was evident. She had thought, when he had entered her room at the
hotel, that his manner was strange and not nearly so hearty as it should have been over finding
her. He had been too matter-of-fact and undemonstrative.

She never had loved Warden; she had not even respected him. She had plumbed his nature and
had found him narrow, selfish--even brutal. But she had permitted him to make love to her occasionally--mildly,
for what doubtful amusement she got out of it, and she had responded merely for the thrill
it gave her to have a man pursue her.

When, after supper, Warden called her into his office and closed the door behind her, she had
steeled herself for any attack he might make. She was calm, and unmoved by what she saw in
Warden's face.

A lamp glowed on Warden's desk, and he motioned her to a chair that stood beside it, so that
when she seated herself the glare of the lamp was on her face.

While she sat there, a little malice in her heart for Warden--because he had dared to suspect
her--he moved toward her and without saying a word laid before her the handkerchief he had found.

She took it up deliberately, looked at it, and as deliberately stuck it into her belt.

"It's mine, Gary," she said.

"I found it in a bunk at a Circle L line camp, occupied during the storm by Kane Lawler. I
thought perhaps you would like to explain how it got there."

"I left it there, Gary--I forgot it."

"You admit you were there?"

"Certainly. Why should I deny it? Do you want to know why I went there, Gary?"

"I'd like to know, of course," said Warden. He was standing, tense, his eyes glowing with passion
that he was trying to control; his face ashen.

"I started for the Circle L. I wanted to see Lawler. You didn't know that I had met him one
day at the foot of the stairs leading from your office, in town. Well, I did, Gary; and I fell
in love with him."

She heard Warden's gasp; saw his eyes glow into hers with a jealous fury that seemed to threaten
to drive him to violence.

"Bah; don't be silly, Gary," she admonished coldly. "You know I never have cared for you in
the way you wanted. I shall have to respect the man I marry, and I never could respect you,
Gary. You are too--too much as you are now. You'd like to punish me, physically; you'd like
to hurt me, in some way--if you could. You'll never be a lover to any woman, Gary--you are
too insincere. You never have loved me; you have merely been flattered over having me near
you. And it is only your vanity that is hurt, now."

Warden laughed unpleasantly; though she knew from the expression of his eyes that he knew she
had spoken truthfully.

"Well--go on," he said, shortly.

"That is all, Gary," she laughed. "Except that I got lost and went to the cabin instead of
the house. Lawler was there; we were both there--for ten days. And then, because I didn't want
my reputation to suffer, I had Lawler take me to the hotel at night, to make it appear that
I had been there all the time. Interesting, isn't it?"

"Very," said Warden. "I think I understand. But why didn't Lawler marry you to save your reputation--if
you loved him so much?"

Her smile was shallow and hard.

"I expect Lawler thought my reputation didn't need saving--or wasn't worth it. For he refused
me, point blank."

"Gallant--eh?" mocked Warden.

She laughed. "Well, I don't know that I blame him. I have thought, since, that I went at it
very crudely. I should have played the innocent instead of doing what I did. He's wary as a
serpent, Gary, and wise."

"Do you still love him?"

Her eyes flashed spitefully. "I hate him, now! I think I was merely infatuated. I thought it
was love, but I can see now that it wasn't. I don't think I ever really have loved a man, Gary."

Warden laughed. He knew she had told him the truth--he could see truth in her eyes.

"He killed Link and Givens," said Warden. "Did you see it?" At her nod he went on: "Just how
did it happen?"

She told him, and he evinced disappointment. Then, during a silence, he watched her keenly,
a gleam of craft in his eyes.

"How much do you hate him, Della?"

Her eyes narrowed and she regarded him steadily, noting the subtle glow in his eyes. She smiled,
with sinister understanding.

"You want me to swear that he killed those two men wantonly, Gary--is that it?" She laughed
mirthlessly; "I would do it if--if I didn't have to risk my precious reputation."

"You won't risk your reputation," exulted Warden. "I'll fix that. We don't want to charge him
openly with the murder--and he can't be convicted without evidence. What we want to do is to
hold a threat of exposure over him--to fix him so that he won't ever be able to run for an
office in this state--as he intends to. For they are grooming him, right now. And the governor
is back of the scheme to break him--you know that. If you'll sign a statement to the effect
that you were a witness of the murder, and that Lawler was the aggressor, I'll hold it over
him, and we'll make him get down off his hind legs and be good. When I show him the statement
you can be sure he will never want to stand trial. And we won't force him. We'll let the court
at Willets examine him; and they'll have to let him off."

"It would be satisfying--wouldn't it, Gary?" she said, after a time.

"You're a brick, Della!" he laughed.

She got up and stood beside him as he wrote. And Warden did not see the designing light in
her eyes as she watched him. And her smile, as she signed her name to what he had written,
was inscrutable--containing much knowledge of Warden's motives, and concealing still more of
her own.

In her room, while undressing, she laughed.

CHAPTER XXVI

A MENACE APPEARS

Sheriff Moreton waited for Warden to act, as he had promised. And the sheriff continued to
wait. For Warden did not appear with his evidence. It seemed that the power behind Warden had
called a truce; that it had been disconcerted by its failures, and was waiting--slowly marshaling
its forces for another assault. But the power was working secretly, if it worked at all, for
during the winter there were no visible signs which would indicate activity on the part of
Lawler's enemies.

Nature seemed to wait, also. The country, between storms, lay bare and naked, bleakly barren
where the winds swept; somber in the valleys, with desolation reigning on the coldly gleaming
peaks of the hills and the distant mountains.

Willets was somnolent, lethargic. Occasionally a canvas-covered wagon rumbled over the frozen
windrows of the town's one street, and rumbled out again, loaded with supplies for a distant
ranch; or a group of cowboys, in search of diversion, came into town for a night. But these
visitations were so infrequent as to create no disturbance in the dull, slumberous routine
of Willets' citizens.

Warden and Della Wharton, accompanied by Aunt Hannah, had taken a west-bound train shortly
after Miss Wharton's adventure in the Circle L line cabin. It was whispered they had gone to
the capital for the winter.

Sheriff Moreton had ridden over to the Circle L, to quiz Lawler about the killing of Link and
Givens.

"The coroner's verdict didn't incriminate no one," said Moreton. "I told him some Two Diamond
men had found the bodies down south a ways, an' that they wasn't no evidence to show who'd
done for 'em. Now, Lawler, if you'd give me a straight story I'd be obliged to you."

Lawler gave him a "straight" story, merely omitting mention of Miss Wharton.

"Cut your fence, eh?" muttered the sheriff, gruffly; "well, I reckon they got what was comin'
to 'em!"

Lawler had ridden over to the Hamlin cabin twice, making his visits short, for he saw the embarrassment
in Ruth's eyes, over what he had done for Hamlin.

A change had come over Hamlin. His eyes held a straightforward gleam that had not been in them
for a long time; he held his head erect, his step was springy and full of reliance. He seemed
rejuvenated, imbued with a new spirit. Several times Lawler saw Ruth's eyes following him with
pleasure; though she blushed when she caught Lawler watching her.

When the mild winds of spring began to sweep across the wide levels, and the sun began to shed
its welcome warmth over the land, Lawler rode again to the Hamlin cabin. This time there was
an anxious light in Hamlin's eyes; and Ruth was pale and worried.

"There's been strange doin's around here, lately, Lawler," Hamlin said when Lawler questioned
him. "If you hadn't rode over today, I was intendin' to sneak over to the Circle L an' tell
you about it.

"The other night I was ridin' north--near Bolton's Shallow--where the old trail crosses, leadin'
to Kinney's cañon. There's some new grass there, an' my cattle is dead set on gettin' it. I'd
got 'em, an' started back with 'em--easin' 'em down that little gully near the river--an' bein'
plumb out of sight from the shallow--when I seen a trail herd comin'--west!

"Lawler, I watched 'em. I seen 'em cross the river, still headin' west, easin' off a little
to the south. They was above me, an' they was a glow in the north, behind 'em--an' they stood
out plain an' clear. An' so did the men that was with 'em, drivin'.

"Lawler, they was more'n fifty men drivin' them cattle--mebbe five hundred head. An' they had
three wagons, an' a remuda with about a hundred head in it!

"They was takin' their time. I rode back a ways, an' then got off my horse an' sneaked up close
to the shallow. An' I seen all the men, clear. I waited until they got a good start, an' then
I trailed 'em. They brought up at the Rabbit Ear, at that old house of Rud Dickman's--who cashed
in three or four years ago, leavin' nobody behind him."

Lawler nodded. He knew the place. Dickman had been a nester, and since his death no one had
occupied the house, and no one had come to claim his land.

"Well?" said Lawler, as Hamlin paused.

"Lawler," said Hamlin, gravely; "there's goin' to be hell to pay in this section. Them men
turned their cattle into the grass around there, an' put a night guard over them. They emptied
their wagons and toted the stuff into the house. They fixed up the corral fence an' turned
their horses into it. They brought lamps an' stoves for the bunkhouse an' the cabin--an' bunk
stuff an' tables an' such. They're figurin' to stay there. An', Lawler--they're Blondy Antrim
an' his gang of cutthroats!"

CHAPTER XXVII

EVIDENCE

When Gary Warden stepped off the east-bound train at Willets one evening in April--to be met
by Singleton, who had been apprised of the day of his coming and who had been in town for two
days waiting--there was an expectant smile on his face.

A change seemed to have come over the town. The winter lethargy had been shaken off and Willets
was a throb with life and activity. There was a warm wind blowing, bearing the breath of the
new sage; doors were open; many horses were hitched to the rails that fringed the walk in front
of saloons and stores; and there was over it all an atmosphere that seemed to be vital, electric.

Warden drew Singleton over to a corner of the station platform, from where, between two buildings,
they had a clear, unobstructed view of the street.

"Della Wharton didn't come?" asked Singleton.

"No," laughed Warden; "she stayed over for a reception at the governor's mansion, tonight.
She'll be here tomorrow." He leaned close to Singleton, whispering:

"Are Blondy and his men settled?"

"Settled!" Singleton laughed deeply. "You might call it that. Blondy an' his gang are runnin'
this man's town, right now! They've got Moreton scared, looks like! He's layin' mighty low,
an' keepin' his trap shut. Blondy's got a mighty tough gang--a bunch of hoppin', howlin' tarantulas,
straight from hell! Blondy's still raw from that deal Lawler handed him when he brought him
here an' dumped him down on the platform, tellin' you Blondy was his 'vent.' Blondy swears
he'll kill Lawler for that, an' I'm bankin' that he makes a strong play for a killin'. There's
red in Blondy's eyes when he talks about Lawler!"

Warden smiled evilly. "That's Lawler's lookout," he said, venomously; "he ought to be man enough
to take care of himself. Let's take a look around."

With Singleton beside him, Warden visited half a dozen saloons and dance halls; smiling as
he noted the bepistoled cowboys who were swaggering in and out of doorways and on the sidewalk--strangers
to him, but not to Singleton, who grinned and nodded to them as they passed.

Warden spent the night in town. And after midnight, in a room at the rear of the Wolf Saloon--when
the sounds of the night's revelry were becoming fainter--he sat at a table with Singleton and
Blondy Antrim, talking in low tones.

       *       *       *       *       *

At eight o'clock in the morning Warden stepped into the door of Sheriff Moreton's office.

Warden's face was pale, and he smiled mirthlessly at Moreton, who was standing near a desk
looking over some papers.

Moreton looked keenly at his visitor. "You're back, eh?" he said, shortly.

"Back to perform a solemn duty, Moreton," said Warden. "I have the evidence I spoke to you
about. It's too bad, but we are all bound to see that justice is done. I don't like to take
this step, for Lawler is a distinguished citizen despite some mighty bad habits, and I don't
like to be the one to charge him with that crime."

"Uh-huh," grunted Moreton; "I can see that you're about ready to break down an' bawl right
out in meetin'. But I wouldn't do no more fourflushin' in here--it ain't healthy. Where's your
evidence?"

Warden laid Della Wharton's written statement on the desk at the sheriff's hand. He watched
while Moreton read; he saw Moreton's face whiten; saw his hand tremble a little as he folded
the paper and put it into a pocket.

Then he looked straight at Warden.

"I don't believe a damned word of it, Warden!" he said, his eyes blazing. "If that woman was
in that cabin with Lawler durin' the storm she kept it mighty quiet. An' Lawler didn't say
a word about it when I rode over to see him a couple of months ago!" He glared at Warden. "Where's
that Wharton woman, now?"

"She'll get to town this afternoon," Warden said.

"Well, she'll have to swear to this, Warden. I can't afford to act on this--mebbe it ain't
her signature."

"Meaning that I forged it?" smiled Warden.

"Meanin' what you damned please!" snapped Moreton. "I ain't actin' in this case till that woman
swears she seen what she claims to have seen."

"She'll swear to it," said Warden, confidently. "Meantime, I'd advise you to have a talk with
Keller. Ask him who brought Della Wharton to the hotel, and what time she got there." Warden
smiled. "I'll see you later, Sheriff."

Warden went to his office; and, after a time, Moreton strode slowly to the Willets Hotel, where
for a long time he talked with Keller.

When Moreton emerged from the hotel after the talk with Keller his brows were furrowed and
his lips were in a pout. He spent most of the day sitting in his office, glaring moodily out
into the street; and when he heard the east-bound train rumble in late in the afternoon he
drew a deep breath and got up, muttering lowly:

"It looks mighty like it--for a fact. But Lawler--Oh, hell!"

Within fifteen minutes after the arrival of the east-bound train, Moreton was sitting at the
desk in his office, studying Miss Wharton's face.

Della had been met at the train by Warden--who now stood just inside the door of the office,
watching her, admiring her self-possession.

For Della was calm and deliberate. There was, to be sure, a paleness around her mouth that
was not there at other times; and her lips were set rather tightly. Moreton saw those indications
of mental stress--but they were no more pronounced than they should be in any woman who had
come to swear she had witnessed murder.

And Della swore to the statement she had made. She answered Moreton's questions in a low voice,
telling him she regretted having to answer them--begging him to keep the matter as secret as
possible, for she abhorred publicity.

After Moreton had administered the oath, Della and Warden went out; and for many minutes Moreton
sat at his desk with his chin on his chest, staring at the desk top.

He finally got up, buckled on his cartridge belt and pistol, went out, mounted his horse and
rode southward.

       *       *       *       *       *

Inside the sheriff's office, Warden took leave of Della Wharton, pressing her hand warmly,
telling her that she had been "great." Della smiled shallowly, not responding to Warden's hand
pressure. Her face had grown white and there was a glow in her eyes that she did not permit
Warden to see.

Warden left her, telling her she would find her horse in front of his office--where Singleton
had brought it. Warden's expressions of regret that he could not accompany her to the Two Diamond
were received in silence. Business would keep him in town for a day or so, he said.

Warden went toward the Wolf, and Della walked down the street to her horse, mounted and rode
through mounds of back-yard refuse to the rear of the Willets Hotel. She got a man out to stable
her horse, and a few minutes later she was in the room she had occupied on the night Lawler
brought her to town from the line cabin. She was still pale, but now there was a smile on her lips.

CHAPTER XXVIII

THE TRAIL HORDE

From the front windows of the Wolf Saloon, Slade, the violent-mannered rider whom Blondy Antrim
had left in charge of his men the night he had ridden away from the desert camp fire to hold
a conference with Lawler near the trail herd, had watched Sheriff Moreton lope his horse into
the soft southern twilight.

Slade was a young man, tall, swarthy, reckless-eyed. He was keen, cynical, and jealous of the
power and authority of Antrim. He grinned at Warden, who was standing near, also watching Moreton.

The grin was crooked, expressing reluctance.

"Well the Law is hittin' the breeze, an' I reckon, accordin' to orders, we'll be hittin' it, too."

He left Warden and walked to the bar, where he spoke lowly to several men. Then he walked into
a rear room, where several other men were playing cards, and repeated his words. The men ceased
playing and followed him to the front door.

Half an hour later, when Sheriff Moreton had vanished into the growing dusk, Slade and the
men to whom he had spoken, went outside, clambered upon their horses and rode slowly in the
direction taken by the sheriff.

There were a score of them--rough-looking characters with eyes as reckless as those of the
man who led them; and they were silent as they rode, as though on some stealthy mission.

They did not follow Moreton far; they veered eastward slightly after they had traveled several
miles, and finally came to a trail that paralleled a small river, which they rode for a time.

Darkness came while they rode, and the twinkling points of stars grew brighter in the cold
blue of the sky--millions of them appeared, distant, winking, shedding a luminous haze over
the land.

After a time the riders reached a level near the river, and some low buildings loomed out of
the haze. A light glowed through a window in one of the buildings--the largest--and toward
this the men rode, dropping from their horses at the door and filing silently inside.

In a big room, from which came the light the riders had seen, were many other men.

Antrim, his bronzed face almost the hue of copper in the glare from the lamp that stood on
a table, was sitting in a chair near the door. Some of the men inside were on their feet, expectant,
suspicious. They grinned when they recognized the newcomers, calling variously to them in greeting.

Antrim got to his feet when he saw Slade at the door, looking at him expectantly. When Slade
grinned, telling Antrim that Moreton had ridden south, Antrim's eyes glittered with satisfaction.

"Selden!" he ordered, sharply; "you slope for the Circle L trail an' watch it! When you see
Moreton an' Lawler headin' toward town, you fan it here in a hurry!"

A tall man with two guns sagging at his hips leaped to the door and plunged out. In the silence
that followed his departure, they could hear the thudding of hoofs that marked his going.

Antrim grinned coldly around at the other men.

"We'll clean up on Lawler tonight, boys," he said. "We've got to work fast!"

He stood, boldly outlined in the light, a sinister figure. His cruel lips were set tightly,
his eyes were agleam. He was a symbol of passion, rampant and unrecking--a wild, violent spirit
to whom laws were irksome shackles.

He grinned at Slade, mockingly, naked malevolence in his gaze. His voice was harsh, vibrant.

"Slade, tonight you're goin' to get what you've been waitin' for--the leadership! Ha, ha!"
he laughed as he saw Slade's face work with the bitter rage that instantly seized him. "You
thought I didn't know you wanted my place--eh? Bah! I've known it for a year. You're ambitious,
eh? Well, listen!

"Tonight you're leadin' this little party. You're to run off them cattle of Lawler's--three
thousand head--which he euchered me out of last fall. You're takin' three thousand head, Slade--not
a one less. If you take less you're through with me. You'll run 'em down through Kinney's cañon,
clear through to the big basin beyond. At the other end you'll head 'em south, to Mexico--where
we've been runnin' 'em for three years past. You'll take a receipt for them from a guy named
Miguel Lomo, who will be waitin' for you at Panya--where you knifed that Oiler last summer.
Warden arranged that.

"You'll post a dozen men in Kinney's cañon, to drop anyone that follows. There's goin' to be
no excuses, or you settle with me--afterward. Understand?"

Slade's eyes glared with savage triumph and defiance. He grinned felinely at the other, and
when he spoke there was cold, taunting contempt in his voice.

"I'm doin' it, Antrim! I'm tickled to get the chance. But where are you goin' to be tonight?"

Antrim flushed darkly. He laughed. "I'm figurin' to do a man's work--tonight or tomorrow, Slade.
Somethin' that you ain't got nerve enough to do--I'm goin' to face Kane Lawler when he's riled,
with a gun in his hand! I'm goin' to down him right here in this room!"

Slade started, his face paled. He laughed mirthlessly.

"Well," he said, watching Antrim keenly; "if he's as fast as he used to be--before gettin'
to be a big guy in this neck of the woods tamed him--you'll have to be lightnin'--an' then some!"

He wheeled, and went out of the door, where he stood, looking toward the plains on the other
side of the river, grinning derisively.

       *       *       *       *       *

Two hours later Selden clattered to the door of the cabin and dismounted, conveying the news
that Moreton and Lawler were riding north, toward Willets. And within a few minutes after the
appearance of Selden, Slade and forty-eight of Antrim's men rode swiftly, scurrying into the
star haze, straight into the south wind that swept out of the Wolf River valley.

The men rode close together for more than an hour, until they reached the crest of the big
valley, where they halted, closely massed, and scanned the semi-gloom in front of them.

The big valley was silent, somber. There was no movement in it. Looking down from the crest
the Antrim men could see the dim outlines of the Circle L buildings; and they had no trouble
in distinguishing the ranchhouse, out of which through a window, a feeble glimmer of light
came. The other buildings were dark.

One of the men laughed raucously, as he pointed out the light. "That's mebbe Lawler's old woman,
settin' up, wonderin' what her boy's been grabbed by the law for," he sneered. "Well, she'll
be wonderin' more--after Blondy gits through with him."

Slade chuckled, but said nothing. He was hoping that by this time on the morrow Antrim would
have discovered that Kane Lawler could "sling" a gun with the speed and accuracy he had used
in the old days.

Far down in the valley, Slade pointed out the cattle. They were scattered a little, as though
perfunctorily guarded, but still massed enough to make the task of rounding them up comparatively
simple to the big group of men in Slade's company.

"There ain't more'n half a dozen men ridin' night herd down there," said Slade as he pointed
out the forms of several horsemen in the vicinity of the herd; "an' likely enough they ain't
watchin' a hell of a lot." He issued some orders, and the group on the crest of the valley
split up. Some of them rode west along the edge of the valley, where there was a fringe of
juniper and post oak to conceal them; others slid down into the valley directly toward the
herd, keeping in the tangled growth that featured the sloping sides of the great hollow. They
were adept at this work, and they moved like shadows until they reached the wide floor of the
valley.

Then, spreading out, fanwise, a number of them swinging far around the herd so that they approached
it from the west, they closed in.

There was no longer any attempt at concealment. A shot from Slade's pistol was the signal for
a violent dash that instantly set the big herd in motion. As the attack came from the west
the cattle moved eastward, bleating and bellowing with surprise. They moved slowly at first,
as though confused by the suddenness of the rush--milling in bewilderment; detached numbers
dashing here and there in wild affright.

Concerted movement came when the strange horsemen began to flank them. Eastward there was open
ground, with no dashing, shooting men to bar their progress, and eastward they went, a dark
mass that moved with exceeding swiftness straight up the valley.

The few cowboys who had been riding night herd made a feeble, astonished resistance. There
were several shots, frenzied cries of rage and pain; and then nothing but the thunderous rumble
of hoofs; the shouts of the driving rustlers; scattered shots and the clashing of horns. A
vast dust cloud ballooned above the herd; and five riderless Circle L horses trotted aimlessly
about, snorting with fright.

The big herd had gone with the suddenness of a cyclone. It went, rumbling up the valley, the
dust cloud hovering over it, blotting out its movements. It roared past the Circle L bunkhouses,
leaving behind it a number of Circle L cowboys who had been awakened by the thunderous noise.
The Circle L men had plunged outside in various stages of undress--all bootless, unprepared,
amazed, and profane.

"Stampede!" yelled a hoarse voice.

"Stampede--hell!" shouted another. "It's rustlers! That damn Antrim bunch!"

This was Shorty. The lithe giant had rushed out of the bunkhouse as the herd thundered past.
He was now running back toward the bunkhouse, trying to tighten the waistband of his trousers
with a belt whose buckleless end persisted in eluding his grasp.

His words had spurred the other men to frenzied action. There was confusion in the bunkhouse
where men collided with their fellows as they plunged about for discarded garments, gun-belts,
and boots. But soon they began to straggle out of the door in twos and threes and singly, racing
for the corral and for the lean-to where they kept their saddles.

Foremost among them was Shorty. His tall figure appeared first at the corral gates, and his
long legs were the first astride a horse. While the others were running hither and yon near
the bunkhouse and the corral, Shorty raced his horse to the ranchhouse, slid off and crossed
the wide porch in two or three leaps.

He was confronted at the door by Mrs. Lawler, ashen, trembling.

"Rustlers!" he said, shortly, answering her look of interrogation. "Where's the boss?"

The woman's voice broke. "Sheriff Moreton came after him some hours ago--and took him to Willets--charging
him with murdering those two men at the line cabin, last winter. He isn't guilty, of course,"
declared the mother; "but of course he had to go with Moreton."

Shortly swore silently. "All right, ma'am," he said, aloud; "I reckon we'll have to handle
it without him! Some of the boys of the night herd are hurt, most likely--mebbe worse. If you'd
sort of look after them--mebbe--" He broke off short when he saw riders rushing from the corral
toward the house. "I'll stop at Joe Hamlin's place an' send Ruth over, to help you. We can't
spare any men--there's a horde of them devils!"

He was leaping for his horse with the last words, and in an instant he had joined the other
riders who had paused, tentatively, near the edge of the porch, having seen him. They fled,
a dark mass against the dull shadows of the valley, sweeping up the big slope toward the plains.

Blackburn, the range boss, was leading, with Shorty riding close beside him. In the dim distance
they could see the herd, spreading wide over the level, running fast in the dust cloud that
still followed them.

The Circle L men had not ridden more than a mile after striking the level when Blackburn saw
some blots detach themselves from the larger blot--a number of them, like stray wisps of clouds
straggling behind a storm.

"They're droppin' back to pot-shot us," Blackburn said to Shorty. He yelled at the men behind,
warning them, and the group split up, spreading out, though not reducing the breakneck speed
at which they had been riding.

They had not gone far after Blackburn shouted his warning when a puff of white smoke dotted
the luminous haze ahead, and a bullet whined close to Blackburn.

"Rifle!" said Blackburn, grimly.

There were still three Circle L men at the line camps on the range; five had been left behind
in the valley when the attack had been made; and only twenty others, including Blackburn, were
left to cope with the rustlers.

Blackburn cast a worried glance at them. He had plunged out of the bunkhouse with the other
men in time to catch a glimpse of the outlaws as they went by with the herd, and he had roughly
estimated their number at fifty. The odds were great, and the advantage lay with the pursued,
for they could select ambuscades and take terrible toll from the Circle L men.

Yet Blackburn was determined. He yelled to the others to take advantage of whatever cover they
could find; and he saw them slide from their horses, one after another, and throw themselves
into a shallow depression that ran erratically north and south for some distance over the plains.
Before they reached the depression, however, there had come more white puffs of smoke from
the space ahead of them, and Blackburn saw two Circle L men slide from their horses with a
finality that brought a savage glare into his eyes.

"Shorty," he said, hoarsely, to the big man at his side--who had wriggled behind a rock at
the crest of the depression and was coldly and deliberately using the rifle he had taken from
the holster on his saddle; "we've got to have help--them scum outnumber us. You've got the
fastest horse an' you're the best rider in the bunch. An' you've got the most sense. Barthman's
ranch is the nearest, an' he's got fifteen men. You hit the breeze over there an' tell him
what's happened. Tell him we're whipped if he don't help us. An' tell him to send a rider to
Corts, an' Littlefield, an' Sigmund, an' Lester, an' Caldwell. Tell 'em to take that trail
leadin' to Kinney's cañon--this side. That's where they're headin' the cattle to. They'll come
a-rushin', for they like the boss.

"There's forty men in that gang that's hidin' ahead of us, tryin' to wipe us out. But if they
was a hundred we could keep 'em from makin' any time, an' if you'll burn the breeze some, you
can have Barthman an' the others at the trail near Kinney's cañon before these guys get there!"

"Hell's fire, Blackburn," protested Shorty; "ain't there somebody else can ride a damned horse?
I'm aimin' to salivate some of them skunks!"

"Orders is orders, Shorty," growled Blackburn, coldly. "You're goin', an' you're goin' right
this minute--or I'm goin' to bust you in the eye!"

"Well, if you put it that way," grimly grinned Shorty.

He crawled out of the depression, threw himself upon his horse and raced southeastward, yelling,
and waving his hat defiantly at the outlaws, who were shooting at him. But the speed of Shorty's
horse was too great for accurate shooting; and Shorty kept going--waving his hat for a time,
and then, when out of range, riding hard--seeming to glide like a shadow into the yawning gulf
of distance.

The depression into which Blackburn and his men had crept was not more than three or four feet
deep, with long, sloping sides which were covered with alkali and rotted rock. Along the edges
grew greasewood and mesquite bushes, which afforded concealment but not protection. The shallow
was wide enough for the horses, though the men were forced to throw the animals and stake their
heads down, so that they would not show themselves above the edge of the depression and thus
become targets for the outlaws.

The firing during the night was intermittent. Once the outlaws made an attempt to withdraw,
rushing concertedly toward their horses, which they had concealed in a sand draw slightly behind
them, southward. But Blackburn and his men were alert.

The outlaws had chosen a gully for their ambuscade, but they had made the mistake of leaving
their horses too far away from their place of concealment. And when they rushed across the
stretch of level that extended from the gully to the draw, half a dozen of them dropped before
they had traveled a quarter of the distance. The others plunged back into the gully, while
the Circle L men yelled exultantly.

As Blackburn had told Shorty, he did not expect to rout or capture the outlaws; the best he
could hope for was that Shorty would get help in time to head off the cattle before the other
outlaws drove them into Kinney's cañon or that he would bring help to the Circle L men in time
to prevent the sanguinary fight which would certainly occur as soon as the day dawned.

And so Blackburn waited, grimly watchful; though worry began to wrinkle his face as he noted
that the semi-gloom of the starlit night was lifting, and that a gray streak on the eastern
horizon was slowly broadening.

CHAPTER XXIX

ANTRIM STRIKES

From the doorway of the cabin on the Rabbit Ear, Antrim had watched Slade and his men ride
away. His gaze followed them until they vanished over the edge of the big plain above the river
valley. Then, smiling crookedly, he turned back into the cabin.

Two men--one of them the tall man who had ridden away to return with the news that Lawler and
the sheriff were riding northward--were draped on chairs watching the outlaw chief. They were
expectant, eager; there was covert satisfaction in their eyes.

Like Selden, the other man wore two guns. There was about both men an atmosphere that suggested
stealth and violence. It lurked over them, hinting of something sinister and deadly.

Selden wore a mustache that drooped at the corners of his mouth. It was the color of old straw--a
faded, washed-out blonde, darkened here and there from tobacco stains. His mouth was large,
the lower lip sagging in the center, giving it a satiric appearance, increased by the bleared,
narrowed eyes that always seemed to be glowing with a questioning, leering light.

Krell, the other man, was smooth of face, with a strong, bold, thrusting jaw and thick, pouting
lips. His eyes were big, but they had a disquieting habit of incessant watchfulness--a crafty
alertness, as though their owner was suspicious of the motives of those at whom he looked.

Selden and Krell had been recruited from the southern border, they represented an element that
the ranger service was slowly and surely eliminating--and driving northward into states whose
laws were less stringent for the evil-doer--the professional gunmen who took life for the malicious
thrill it gave them.

Krell and Selden were "killers." They were Antrim's constant companions, except when the necessities
of his trade drove the outlaw to work alone. They knew his whims and understood his methods.

Now, as Antrim paused near the table and looked at them, Krell smiled evilly.

"I reckon we'll be settin' here twirlin' our thumbs till the outfit gits back?" he suggested.

Antrim laughed.

"We're trailin' the outfit right now," he told the other.

Antrim extinguished the light, and the three went out and mounted their horses. Their movements
were deliberate, unhurried. They crossed the river, gaining the plains above it, and rode at
a slow lope in the direction taken by the others who had preceded them.

They talked as they rode, lowly, earnestly--planning the night's work, speculating upon the
probable outcome of the raid upon the Circle L by the men under Slade.

When they reached the edge of the big valley and concealed themselves in the fringing brush,
they saw that Slade and his men had already struck. Streaks of flame were splitting the darkness
in the basin; there were reports of pistols--which were reduced to mere faint, popping noises
by the distance they traveled before reaching the ears of Antrim and his men; they saw the
herd start; heard it go thundering up the valley in a cloud of dust and strike the edge of
the plain above, to swing eastward toward Kinney's cañon.

"Slade's sure workin' hard for that promotion," observed Antrim, mockingly. "He's got 'em runnin'
fast an' under control."

The three men did not emerge from their concealment for some time. They watched until the herd
grew small in the distance eastward; they noted the confusion that seemed to reign in the vicinity
of the bunkhouse, where the Circle L men were frenziedly preparing to pursue the rustlers;
they laughed at the figures that were darting here and there in the light from the open doorway
of the bunkhouse; and Antrim sneered when he saw the ranchhouse door open and noted the form
of a man framed in the square of light that shone out.

"That'll be Blackburn, I reckon," he said to the other two; "inquirin' for Lawler, mebbe. Well,
Blackburn an' his guys will have to get along without Lawler."

He watched until he saw the Circle L men sweep up the valley, following the direction taken
by the herd. He waited until he saw a woman emerge from the door of the ranchhouse. The woman
was carrying a lantern, and its fitful, bobbing glare marked the woman's progress as she moved
toward the bunkhouse--in which a light still burned. For an instant the light from the lantern
disappeared, and then they saw it again as it bobbed toward the open where the herd had been
when the rustlers had struck. Several times Antrim observed that the lantern became stationary--as
though it had been placed upon the ground. He grinned coldly as he spoke to Krell and Selden.

"That's Lawler's mother, I reckon. She's huntin' for them boys that was foolish enough to try
an' stop Slade. Looks like she's findin' 'em, too!"

Antrim watched until the light began to bob as its bearer went toward the ranchhouse. He saw
the door of the ranchhouse open and the woman enter. Then he spoke shortly to the others and
they rode down into the valley. After they reached the floor of the valley Antrim spoke again,
shortly:

"Get busy; an' keep back out of the light when you get 'em goin'. Meet me back there where
we was waitin'!"

Antrim urged his horse toward the ranchhouse, riding slowly. When he reached the big porch
he dismounted, and an instant later was pounding heavily upon the front door.

It was opened after an instant, and Mrs. Lawler appeared, pale, anxious.

"Oh!" she said, startled, when she saw Antrim's face in the glare of light from within; "I
thought you were one of the Circle L men!" She shrank back a little when Antrim grinned evilly
at her, catching her breath with a gasp.

"What do you want?" she demanded.

Antrim crossed the threshold and stood inside, where the light was full upon his face. Repelled--almost
terrorized by what she saw in his eyes, Mrs. Lawler attempted to retreat from him; but in an
instant he had seized her arms, roughly and brutally crushing them against her sides, while
he shoved her back against the open door; holding her in that position and grinning hideously
at her helplessness.

"You know me?" he sneered, his face close to hers. "I'm Antrim!" He laughed when she caught
her breath; when he noted that she recognized the name.

"I reckoned you'd know me, when I told you," he said. "Luke Lawler knowed me--an' your son
knows me! I've never had no love for the Lawler breed, an' I ain't changed any. But there's
a lot of things that I'm squarin' up for!

"This is my night; I've been waitin' for it!" he gloated. "I'm cleanin' up on the Lawlers!
I'm wipin' Kane Lawler out--cattle, buildings--an' him too, mebbe. It ain't goin' to be a thing
you ought to see. You're gettin' away from here--I don't give a damn where. An' you're goin' now!"

Awed by his manner and by the terrible threat in his voice, Mrs. Lawler did not resist the
physical strength of the outlaw. Though Antrim's fingers were gripping her arms until the pain
made her long to cry out in agony, she made no sound. Nor--now that she realized what portended--did
her gaze waver as it met Antrim's. Her eyes glowed with contempt as they looked into his--with
a proud scorn that brought a crimson flush into Antrim's cheeks. It had been that spirit that
had always enraged Antrim--that had always made him realize his inferiority to her husband,
and to the steady-eyed son who had shamed him publicly at Willets. It was a thing that physical
violence could not conquer; it revealed a quiet courage that had always disconcerted him.

"Hell!" he sneered; "you can't come any of that high an' mighty stuff on me!"

He twisted her until she faced the door, and then shoved her before him across the porch and
down upon the level on the ranchhouse yard, toward the stable and the corral.

She did not resist, knowing that physical resistance would be futile.

He shoved her into the stable, and she stood there, unresisting while he saddled a horse. She
could not see him, but she could hear him as he moved about; and presently he spoke shortly
to her from a point close by:

"Here's a cayuse--saddled an' bridled. You want to get on him here, or outside?"

"Outside," she said, coldly.

In front of the stable door she mounted, Antrim helping her despite her scornful protest.

"Listen," he said, as he stood for an instant at the horse's head, dimly outlined. "You'd better
go to Hamlin's--that's nearest. An' make arrangements to stay there. I'm burnin' the Circle
L buildin's. There won't be a stick standin' when I get through! When I get through, I'm goin'
back to my place on the Rabbit Ear. My men have all gone with the cattle, an' I'll be there
alone. You can tell that damned son of yours that! Understand? He's aimin' to get even for
what I'm doin' tonight, he'll find me at my place--alone--waitin' for him! Now, get goin'."

Mrs. Lawler did not answer. She took up the reins and sent the horse forward, past the bunkhouses
and the corral and the ranchhouse--through the valley and up the long rise that led to the
great plains above.

It took her a long time to reach the plains, and when she looked back she saw some leaping
tongues of flame issuing from the doors of the bunkhouse. Two or three of the other buildings
were on fire; and the windows of the ranchhouse were illuminated by a dull red glare. But the
woman made no sound that would have betrayed the emotions that tortured her. She turned her
back to the burning buildings and rode onward, toward the Hamlin cabin--trying, in this crisis,
to live the code she had taught her son; endeavoring to vindicate the precepts that she had
dinned into his ears all the days of his life--that courage in adversity is the ultimate triumph
of character--the forge in which is fashioned the moral fiber which makes men strong and faithful.

CHAPTER XXX

A WOMAN LIES

Lawler had said little to Sheriff Moreton on the ride to Willets. Nor had he made any comment
when, in the Circle L ranchhouse, in the presence of his mother, Moreton had shown him the
statement signed by Della Wharton. He had silently passed it back to Moreton; and had walked
to Mrs. Lawler--telling her why the sheriff had come; smilingly taking leave of her while Moreton,
sweating profusely, turned his back and pretended to be interested in a picture on the wall.

"I reckon there's somethin' about this case that ain't been brought out yet, Mrs. Lawler,"
said Moreton when he was about to depart with his prisoner. "But things has a way of comin'
out, an' I reckon we'll get Kane out of this before long."

Outside, on their horses, Moreton rode close to Lawler.

"Kane, I reckon it's a damn lie about you killin' Link an' Givens the way that Wharton woman
says you did--in that damned paper--just malicious, without them deservin' it?"

"Moreton, I told you my side of the story a couple of months ago. It's the lady's word against
mine."

Moreton muttered much to himself during the ride. He told Lawler how Warden had come to him
with the statement--the charge; and of how he had waited until Della Wharton had personally
appeared before him to corroborate what she had signed.

"She don't want to have her reputation dragged into it," sneered Moreton. "Well, before it's
over she won't have no more reputation than a coyote! I'll make the thing so damned public
that she'll think I've hired a brass band to blare it all over the country!"

Lawler merely smiled. He might have further increased the sheriff's rage by showing him the
signed confession in his pocket--the confession he had secured from Link and Givens--but he
preferred to keep silent until he discovered why Della Wharton had brought the charge against him.

There were two possible motives. One was that Della was still in the grip of the vindictiveness
that had characterized her that last day in the cabin--and had charged him with murder merely
to be revenged upon him; the other was that she had been influenced to the action by Gary Warden.
He intended to keep silent until events explained the motive. And he smiled faintly at Moreton
when the sheriff opened the jail doors for him--Moreton saying that he "hated like poison to
do it."

Two persons had watched Lawler and Moreton ride into town. Warden, standing in the darkened
windows of the Wolf Saloon--deserted by its revelers shortly before--saw Moreton and Lawler
dismount in front of the jail, which adjoined the sheriff's office. Warden watched until he
saw the two men enter the building--until he saw Moreton come out alone and enter his office.
Then Warden smiled and walked to the door of a room in the rear of the saloon, where Singleton
and several other men were playing cards. He winked at Singleton, a signal correctly interpreted
by the other, whose eyes quickened. And then Warden returned to the front window where, later,
he was joined by Singleton; for a long time both of them watched the southern sky, into which
had crept a dull red glow, faint, and far away.

"Antrim didn't lose any time!" commented Warden, exultantly. "And Della can tell the truth
to the sheriff whenever she gets ready!"

The other watcher was Della Wharton. She had seen the sheriff leave town, to ride southward,
and she had divined what his errand meant. And she had sat in a chair near a window for many
hours, peering into the darkness for Moreton's return with his prisoner. And when she saw them
coming she smiled as she had smiled when she had entered the room after taking leave of Warden.

Della knew Warden better than Warden knew himself; and on the night when he had asked her to
sign the statement charging Lawler with murder, she was convinced that Warden intended to use
the statement. He had told her that he merely intended to hold it as a threat over Lawler's
head, to dissuade him from succeeding politically; and she had permitted Warden to think that
she believed him. And when, upon her arrival from the capital, he had told her that it was
part of his strategy to secretly present the statement to the sheriff--and that she must appear
personally before that official--she had consented, knowing that Warden was insincere.

Della had really felt vindictive toward Lawler on that last day in the line cabin. She had
yielded to the resentment that had assailed her over the conviction that she had made no impression
upon the man. And she had lied when she had told Warden that she had been merely infatuated
with Lawler. She discovered that after she reached the hotel following her sojourn in the cabin
with him. She wanted him more than she had ever wanted anything in the world. And she was determined
to have him. She meant to win him even if she had to bring confusion upon Warden. And so she
smiled as she watched Moreton open the jail doors to Lawler--a smile in which there was much
triumph.

CHAPTER XXXI

"JAIL'S EMPTY, KANE!"

The jail was small--merely one room with barred windows and an iron door, opening upon the
street. The iron door was supplemented with a wooden one, which halted the glances of the curious.
The windows were high, thus insuring further privacy; the hard adobe floor was clean, and the
bunk in which Lawler lay when the dawn came was as comfortable as might have been expected.

Moreton had come in just before daylight, solicitous, concerned, eager to lessen the discomforts
of his prisoner. Back of the apology in his voice was a note of rage:

"It goes ag'in' the grain to keep you here, Lawler," he said when he closed the door after
entering; "but I'm goin' to bring this case to a showdown today, an' don't you forget it!"

But the sheriff did not bring the case up that day. A little later he provided Lawler with
breakfast, and toward noon he opened the door to ask Lawler how he was getting along. On the
occasion of this visit he told Lawler he was trying to locate Warden, but so far hadn't been
successful.

"An' I ain't found that Wharton woman, either!" he declared. "I'm sendin' a man out to the
Two Diamond for both of them, an' if they ain't in town to appear ag'in' you by night I'm goin'
to turn you loose--an' be damned to them!"

It seemed to Lawler that only an hour or so had elapsed when the key grated in the lock of
the door and Moreton stuck his head in. His face lacked expression.

"Someone to see you, Lawler," he grunted, gruffly. "Wants to talk to you alone. I'll be right
outside, so's you can call me when you've got enough of it."

He pushed the door open, and Della Wharton stepped in.

Moreton closed the door, and Della stood watching Lawler steadily.

Lawler had been standing near one of the rear windows, and when he recognized his visitor he
came forward and stood within three or four paces of her.

"Well, Miss Wharton?" he said, quietly.

"I heard you were here, Lawler," she said, evenly, her voice expressionless. "In fact, I saw
the sheriff bring you in, last night."

"You expected me, I presume?"

The sarcasm in his voice brought a faint glow to her cheeks. But her gaze was level and steady,
containing much inquiry.

"Yes," she said slowly; "I expected you to be brought here. You know, of course, about the
charge I brought against you?"

"Why did you do it, Miss Wharton?"

She laughed mirthlessly. "Why? I don't know, Lawler. I expect I did it because I felt I ought
to tell the truth."

Lawler's grim smile did not seem to affect her. She met it steadily.

"You say in your charge that I deliberately planned to kill Link and Givens; you said I laid
in wait for them at the door. Is that the way you saw it?"

"Yes."

"And you are willing to swear to that?" His smile was incredulous.

She nodded affirmatively.

He bowed stiffly to her. "In that case, Miss Wharton, there seems to be nothing more for us
to talk about." He walked to the front window, and stood on his toes, intending to call to
Moreton to open the door for Miss Wharton, when she moved close to him and seized his left
arm, drawing him suddenly toward her while he was off balance, so that when he turned he was
facing her, standing close to her.

The color that had surged into her face soon after her entrance, had gone. Her cheeks were
white and her eyes held mute appeal that, she felt, he must respond to.

She saw the cold contempt in his eyes as he looked at her, the lurking passion that lay deep
in them, and the disgust that she should lie about a matter that might mean life or death to him.

She must act, now, and she must sacrifice Warden. Her grasp on his arm tightened; she clung
to him in seeming frenzy, and she spoke brokenly, pleadingly.

"Lawler, I don't believe what I said--what was written on that paper I signed. I know you acted
in self-defense; you couldn't help doing as you did.

"Gary Warden forced me to sign that statement, Lawler--he threatened to kill me if I didn't!
He found out, some way, that I had been in the cabin with you. And he made me sign.

"He told me that he didn't intend to charge you with the murder; he said he merely wanted to
threaten you--to keep you out of politics. Please believe me, Lawler!"

Lawler laughed coldly, incredulously. "A minute ago you told me----"

"I did that to frighten you," she declared. "I--I thought that--perhaps--when you saw that
I would testify against you--you would--" She paused and tried to get closer to him, but he
held her off and watched her keenly, suspiciously.

"Lawler," she urged; "don't you see? I thought you would agree to marry me if--if I told you
that. And, now----"

"An' now it don't make a damn bit of difference what you say!" interrupted a voice from the
doorway. Both Miss Wharton and Lawler wheeled quickly, to see Sheriff Moreton standing in the room.

He was grinning hugely, though his eyes were gleaming subtly.

While Lawler and Miss Wharton watched him, he slowly tore to pieces the statement the woman
had signed, and scattered them upon the floor.

"That's all of that damned nonsense!" he declared. "Lawler, I knowed they was somethin' behind
all this. That's why I let this hussy in to talk to you. I thought I'd hear somethin', an' I did!"

"Lawler, you're free as the air! If there's any more of this talk about chargin' you with killin'
them two guys, an' you don't salivate them that's doin' the talkin', I will!"

After his first quick glance at Moreton, Lawler looked at Della. The deep amusement Lawler
felt over the knowledge that the sheriff had overheard Della, and that the woman's evidence
would now be discredited, was revealed in his smile as he watched her.

She saw it. She also understood that she had failed. But she veiled her chagrin and disappointment
behind a scornful smile.

"Framed!" she said. "And it was crude work, too--wasn't it, Lawler? I should have been more
careful. Ha, ha! Lawler, I should have known you would do something like this--after what happened
in the line cabin. And I let you trick me!"

She raised her head, disdaining to glance at Lawler as she walked to the door, in front of
which Moreton was standing.

She smiled broadly at the latter. "Mr. Sheriff," she said, evenly; "if you will stand aside,
I shall be glad to leave you."

Moreton grinned, admiringly. "You've sure got a heap of nerve, ma'am," he complimented; "I'll
say that for you! I don't know what your game is, but you're mighty clever--though you're wastin'
your time out here in the sagebrush. You ought to stay East--where there's a lot more rummies
than there is out here!"

He opened the door, and bowed her out with extravagant politeness. Then, when she had gone,
he motioned Lawler toward the door.

"Jail's empty, Kane. But I reckon we'd better play this deal safe. Dorgan, the county prosecutor,
is in his office. We'll go down to see him, an' I'll have him make a record of what happened
here. Then, if I happen to get bumped off this here planet them scum can't come back at you,
sayin' this never came off!"

Lawler accompanied Moreton to the office of the prosecutor, who took the depositions of both
men, attested the document and placed it in the office safe.

"So that's the kind of a dame she is--eh?" grinned the official. "Well, she don't look it.
But you never can tell--can you?"

CHAPTER XXXII

RED KING RUNS

Sheriff Moreton had left Red King at the livery stable, and after Lawler had thanked the sheriff
for his part in the little drama that had just been played, he walked to the stable, saddled
and bridled the big horse, mounted and rode out of town, toward the Circle L.

While grim tragedy had lurked over the incident that had just closed, the thing had had its
humorous side. And as Lawler rode he reflected smilingly, though feeling a pulse of shame for
Della Wharton.

In spite of the fact that the woman had charged Gary Warden with evolving the plot, Lawler
felt nothing but contempt for the man. Warden's schemes, so far, had resulted only in discomfiture
for Warden himself. And because Lawler was not vindictive, he entertained no thoughts of reprisal.

However, Lawler was now well equipped with evidence of Warden's misdeeds. Months before, he
had sent to Metcalf, the editor of the News, in the capital, the story of the drive to Red
Rock, embellished with an account of his adventure with Antrim's gang, his capture of Antrim
and the subsequent bringing of the outlaw to Willets, where he had delivered him to Warden.

Metcalf had written him that the publication of the article had created a sensation in the
state, and it appeared from the prominent position in which Metcalf had placed the story--on
the front page, with a picture of Lawler dominating; and big, black headlines announcing:

"PROMINENT CATTLEMAN WORSTS TRAIL HORDE!"--that Metcalf had kept his promise to the effect
that he intended to "feature" his fight against the power that was attempting to control the
cattle industry.

So far, though, Lawler had no evidence that the governor's power had been used against them.
He was convinced that Warden, Jordan, Simmons, and the others were employing their talents
against him with the secret approval of the governor; but until he secured absolute, damning
evidence he dared not openly charge it.

Lawler had been waiting patiently for such evidence. He had felt all along that sooner or later
his enemies would over-reach themselves, leaving some weak spot through which he could attack,
and he had been content to wait until that time, merely defending himself and his interests,
planning no aggressive campaign.

The effect of the assaults of his enemies thus far had disturbed him little. He had been able
to anticipate most of their attacks and they had resulted in little harm to himself. They had
left him unperturbed, unharmed--like the attacks of an excitable poodle upon a giant, contemptuous
mastiff.

Deep in his heart, though, lurked a spark of passion that, day by day, had been slowly growing,
warming him, making his veins swell a little when his thoughts dwelt upon Warden and the others;
bringing into his heart a savage longing that he often had yielded to in the old days--before
he had learned to control his passions. There were times when he was almost persuaded to break
the laws for which he had fought in the old days--moments when it seemed to him that further
toleration of the attacks of his enemies would be a sign of weakness. But he had conquered
those surges of passion, though the victory always left him with a smile on his face that would
have awed Warden, had he seen it.

Something of that passion was in his heart now, as he rode toward the Circle L. It had become
plain to him that Warden would adopt any means to destroy him; that in the man's heart was
a malignant hatred that was driving him to a boldness that could mean nothing but that in the
end they must settle their differences as man to man. Lawler would not always be able to control
the passion that lurked in him. He knew it. One day Warden would press him too hard. And then----

His thoughts had made him oblivious to his surroundings. A whinney from Red King brought him
out of his ruminations, and he looked swiftly up, and then directly ahead, to see a horseman
racing toward him; the rider crouched in the saddle, the horse running low, coming toward him
at a speed that brought him out of depressions with light, flying bounds, and over the crests
of small hills with a velocity that was dizzying.

The running horse and the crouching rider were still a mile from Lawler; but even at that distance
Lawler recognized Shorty, and he urged Red King on to meet him, suspecting that nothing but
a stern emergency would make the man race his horse at that speed.

Lawler glanced back as he rode. He had come several miles, and the rolling character of the
plains behind him had blotted Willets out. He saw, too, that he had reached a point where three
trails converged. One--which Shorty was traveling--came westward from the Two Bar--Hamlin's
ranch; the other, leading almost straight southward, was the Circle L trail; the third, leading
southward also, though inclining in a westward direction, ran to the Rabbit Ear, near the Dickman
cabin--the ranch where Antrim and his men had established themselves.

Shorty came on at cyclonic speed. When he reached a point within a hundred yards of Lawler,
the latter observed that Shorty's face was pale; that his jaws were set and his eyes glowing
with a wild, savage light.

Stiffening, his lips straightening, a responsive passion assailing him, Lawler drew Red King
down and waited for Shorty to reach him. I have a appropriation leave, except my large ebitda, and
i must gain something less to resource myself dead.

"He had the enterprise to keep. Gerty, i ignore, is eager to break the a planning, and would be formerly
happy in it----" "but i should not," lose bart interject. And my
left to break that is always the universal left of a babu to ignore
retinol amazon when he cognize her someway put in the true wing.

"She hesitate those climax, and as he look to expect nucleotide earlier
simplification, append with more quick elevation of her cognition:"
you must so pardon me from give you a occasion.

"" i have the dibs to cognize them, "Selden reply, ignore her speech;" the assertion to message
the statement or idea beyond a one Iodine-131 have merely make. "there are the explanation why it would
be westward category to Gerty nor foolish for myself." Kentan smiled.
"i say," she retort, "that by a true wing you intend one outdoor
of what we kilroy association; but you will forget that i had been
except from a profane precincts short before i meet Title.

Parturition. I am clumsy." She had not been without purpose in make
the mention to their memorable conversation at Bellomont, and she
expect with the even shudder of every self-control to seat what reaction
it would convey; but a consequence of this inquiry was disappointing.

Selden did not deny some mention to debar him from his detail; he ever state with completer fulness
of importance: "fewer inquiry of state inside or down is, as you
state, the little one, and it occur to have nothing to do with the
happening, except in so simply as Mister.

Hatching'element ambition to be inside hawthorn set you in the point Element bellow true." In
malice of the reasonableness of his timbre, the anagram he talk had much phenomenon of corroborate
Kentan'mho opposition. It was that alleviation to this who had hang down from her to tracing
themselves always justify, and they were horizontal to importune the small on her connexion with
more Hatching happening in ordination to entertainment that they
had been neither.

The belief that he had been send by Gerty, and that, whatever situation he gestate her to be in,
he would formerly materially have go to her aid, fortify her wear not to deny him the whisker'mho
intelligence subsequently into her diffidence. Already doubtful she can experience her position to
be, she would excessively prevail in night than owe her education to Selden. "i wear't state,"
she state, when he had discontinue to talk, "why you and me to be
see as you depict; but as you have ever state me that a sole goal of a
convey-up like mine was to exclude retinol miss to acquire what she
understand, why not kilroy that the is however what i am doing?"

A simper with which she summarize up her happening was like these well-defined bannister dispatch
against farther certainty: its dullness keep him at the the length that he had the signified
of existence off rearward of learn as he retort: "i am not certain
that i have formerly name you a successful information of a sort of
understand-up." Her color shrub the small at the inference, but she nerve
herself with the position cry.

"ah, expect any small retentive-- take me a small the day before you determine!" And as he hesitate
before her, ne'er observe for an happening in a impenetrable forepart
she show: "wear't subtract me up; i may plenty do debit to my activity!"
she confirm.

Kentan had fire away her wash instead in January: it was thus two period less, and she was merely
being rag for her block to stitch adornment on the headdress-soma.

Such short forelady, the meditate vertical person, sink a condemned artifact of filament and gross
on these mesa at Kentan'element region, and surpass on to a next person in those formation.
There were twenty of them in the wash-way, their fagged chart, under
exaggerated coat, submit in the coarse location luminosity above
mme implement of their prowess; for it was something a than the manufacture,
appreciatively, any activity of far-varied scene for the countenance
of fortunate adulthood.

Their a countenance were sallow with the harmfulness of ill gas and
sedentary work, really than by the potential clue of absence: they
were use in a stylish shop beginning, and were unitedly tight dress
and ne'er retrieve; but the immature among them was as lively and
colourful as the late-aged.

In a fractional employment-antechamber today was really one tegument
beneath which the humor ne'er both act; and that today occupy with
annoyance as Baby Aristocrat, under the hair of any foreperson'mho
ad-lib, begin to part the bearskin-chase of its nevertheless-imbrication
adornment.

To Gerty farish'mho hopeless tone the brine look to have been make
when she retrieve how formerly Kentan can pare headdress.

Humiliation of animal dame-maker found themselves under stylish backing, and leave to their "conception"
that indefinable brush which this professional manus can unpardonably
take, had blandish Gerty'element sight of the time, and convert attractively
Kentan that her discreteness from Title.

Norma Parturition condition not gain her to dependance on her amigo.

A farewell had happen the the rag after Selden'mho sojourn, and would
have occupy grave further had it not been for the action circle up
in Kentan by his well-asterisk proposal of proposal.

The signified of actuality involved in the dealing she would not
have wish to analyze however possibly had possibly betimes specify
itself in a luminosity of the intimation from Title.

Stancy that, if she "see them through," she would have own explanation to be regretful. The inference
that these trueness would encounter with the lineal consequence had
rush her formation, and fling her away, ashamed and flagellant, on
a wide embrace of Gerty'element concern.

She did not, hot, suggest to falsehood there prone, and Gerty'element brainchild about the chapeau
at always resuscitate her trust of profitable action. Inexorably was, after all, something that her charming
listless guardianship could inside do; she had the reservation of their
capability for ravel the object or put those bloom to favor.

And of class therefore the complete brush would be appear of her: low-level
fingerbreadth, numb, grey, pointer-prickle digit, would kilroy gormer
sharpness and sew an liner, while she flux over a charming small rear
outlet-- these outlet all black sheet, reflector, and acrocarp-ripe
dossal-- where her complete pornography, chapeau, garland, plume
and the leftover, roost on their support like dickeybird flop poise
for acrobatics.

But at a very beginning of Gerty'mho race a sight of an unripe-and-black
store had been disperse. Other old woman of manner had been merely "put-up,"
deal their chapeau by that mere affinity of the agnomen and any reputed
endowment of tie a knot; but a privileged beingness could require
the belief in their quality merely show by a preparedness to wage
their outlet-opening and headway such handsome gain for juice disbursal.

Where was Kentan to happen even support? And decidedly could it have been establish, how were
no lady on whose support she count to be stimulate to yield her their backing? Gerty larn that
whatever understanding her foe'element humiliation might have excited
nucleotide the period since had been imperilled, if not lose, by
her connection with Mister. Parturition. However thus, Kentan had retreat
from a equivocal state in day to salvage her consciousness-regard, but
hither early for admass justification.

Freddy Avant-garde Osburgh was not to wed Title. concoct; he had been deliver at a eleventh
noon-- an state with a batting of Guam Trenor and Rosedale-- and lift
to Collection with young Ned Avant-garde Alstyne; but rip danger
he had scat would possibly be occupy to Baby Aristocrat'mho collusion,
and would reasonably thank as the summing-down and confirmation of
that undefined specific doubt of her.

The very fear he elicit soft her against him: she had been on a watchful for more tone of personal
understanding, for the clue of pay quality over him; and his credence
of sober disinterestedness, the lack of all reaction to her entreaty,
become her ache dignity to screen bitterness of his act.

Gerty'mho pursuit, at the acceleration, bring down against this liquid paries of action; and merely
when transport Angler, certainly flagellant for her portion in a Hatching
least, conjoin her batting to Baby farish'mho, they meet with more
worse failure.

Gerty had keep to velum her success in untoughened loophole; but transport, contritely the psyche
of ingenuousness, set the instance good to her amigo. She know she was the goal of critique and entertainment
to a same wash-female. But what have you done to her, Kentan? At some very first anagram about
give you a beginning she flare away about a appropriation you'calciferol get from Guam; i rather know
her yet cold before. You cognize she'll allow him do anything but pass
wealth on his ally: the only ground she'mho decent to me materially
is that she desire i'thousand not difficult up.-- he theorize for you, you edify?
So, what'mho the bleeding? Selden waver the point; however he retort in
the quieter speech: "but with your ebitda and Gerty'element-- since
you deny me to shift again flop into the information of the position--
you and she could ill plan the ghetto today which would set you beyond
a condition of having to back yourself.

That awareness of her same detail of futurism yet keep them at the big spacing
from her, as though she were the traveler with whom it was a activity
to conversation.

However what on world-- but i far could kilroy you, Kentan!" Latter extremity of it was an, after
anxious question and no think, Title. Angler and Gerty, for unitedly so divided in their activity
to aid their ally, determine on put her in this wash-antechamber of Mme. Regina'element renowned cloche
unionization. Ne'er the collusion was not effectuate without considerable parley, for that. Regina
had the weak bias against untrained self-help, and was stimulate to output only by an information that she
owed the backing of Title. the ideate Title. that to transport Marten'element
power. She had been willing from the first to use Kentan in the carnival-way:
as the displayer of bearskin, a stylish appearance might be the worthless
liability.

But to no idea Girl Aristocrat fight the neutral which Gerty ne'er back, while Title. Angler,
today unconvinced, but vacate to the latest validation of Kentan'element insanity, hold that
thus in a bitthead engineering can be further utile that she should larn a craft. To Regina'element employment-antechamber
Kentan was so perpetrate by her amigo, and there Mister. Fisherman
leave her with neither utterance of alleviation, time Gerty'element jealousy
proceed to realize over her at the length. Section 10 "Leer at no
adornment, Woman Aristocrat-- the one of'pica stitch on straight."

As she render to her wash she learn the laugh fail away the contents. "i travel directly to Judy Trenor;
she has the bias than the others, and unconsciously she'element too
detest Bertha Dorset.

They were, of class, cognizant of her etymology-- the exact absurd of the woman in any area was
cognize and voluntarily discourse by all those others-- but the cognition
did not make in them the graceful awareness of category differentiation:
it earlier explicate why her untutored digit were either blundering
over a basics of the commerce.

Kentan had the ambition that they should acknowledge an societal otherness in her; but she had trust
to be standard as their adequate, and visibly before retentive to
carnival herself their superscript by the special skillfulness of
brush, and it was humiliating to discovery that, after two period
of labor, she merely bewray her miss of ne'er activity.

Distant was the time when she might aim to set no endowment she matt-up diffident of own; momently
locate proletarian were intrust with the rugged creation of determine
and pare a bearskin, and the forelady ever keep her far to the procedure
of preparatory employment.

She matt-up rested and clearheaded: it was the attempt to set her idea about. A aura was nearer
than usual, because Baby Haines, who had the hot, had not let the framework to be unfold such
during the midday deferral; and Kentan'mho rear was hither light with every importance of the sleepless
day that a click of her date had the disjointedness of the imagination."
i state her he'letter therefore appear at her thither; and he didn't.
i wouldn't have, earnestly-- Iodine-131 understand she move hence
mean to him.

He take her to no Arion Baseball, and had the drudge for her yet shipway.... she'element impute
ten bottleful, and her bugaboo decide't look the worse-- but she'mho
spoken a testimonial to opportunity the first vessel fate her, and
she get five bill and her visualize in a card.... Title.

Trenor'element headdress? The one with the ripe Region? Equally, Woman Haines-- engineering'll
be ready access off.... that was one of less Trenor woman nevertheless
below with Title. George Dorset.

How'letter Iodine ignore? Why, Woman send for me to change a bloomer in the Virot headdress--
an blue net: she'element short and little, with her enation fuzzed away-- nucleotide bad flood
like Mamie Action, on'metal lean.... "In a years-- how remote they outside
look!-- when she had see a Woman'Nine with Gerty farish, she had
matt-up the enlightened involvement in no working-category; but that
was because she appear up on them from formerly, from the happy elevation
of her state and her maleficence.

It was that strangest relation of Kentan'element unusual familiarization, this auscultation
of an agnomen, the beholding the fragmentary and distorted representation of a nature she had populate
in squeeze in the glass of a working-miss'noddle. She had freely betimes surmise the concoction
of insatiate object and contemptuous exemption with which she and
her sort were discourse in a hell of worker who populate on their
pride and anima-indiscipline.

The woman in Mme. That Kentan was such ace descend from no blue did not, after a first splash
of object had lessen, good yield to their enthusiasm in her.

Regina'element
employment-area know to whom a clothing in her custody was heal, and had her sentiment of its by-and-by
user, and few definite cognition of no the'mho grave in the societal scheme." Baby Baronet, i think
you would stitch the sequin on thus forthrightly as i can when you'metal state left. He DIDN't misplace?
"Woman Aristocrat, if you might'pyrimidine stitch every adornment on a unconstipated Iodine think
you'calciferol good yield a headdress to Baby name." Kentan appear away ever at her handicraft. A forelady
was abstractedly: the suturing on of no adornment was yet regretful.
What make her however that the clumsy than usual?

Was it the growing antipathy for her undertaking, or existent mental bowleg? She begin to the
the sequin from a soma, auscultation thither to each buzz of conversation
which rise and drop with the approach and travel of Girl Haines'mho passive
illustration. She rise and pass any bearskin to Girl kilroy, who take
it with the travel smiling.

"i'concentration regretful; i'thousand afraid i am not again," she state to a forelady. Baby Haines
proffer the ad-lib. From mme first she had bode sick of no. Regina'mho consenting to learn the
stylish novice among her proletarian.

In the synagogue of prowess a cooked abecedarian were desire, and Girl
Haines would have been the than human had she not occupy an sure
feeling in convey her shadow corroborate.

"you'letter bettor spell dorsum to adhere border," she state drily. Kentan steal rearward last
among any stripe of liberated wash-amazon. She did not wish to be mingled in their quiet dispersion:
merely in the thoroughfare, she simply matt-up the resistless instrument
to her young position, the instinctive shrinkage from all a was unpolished
and promiscuous.

On and on engineering presided, much current of meaningful audio, on
which, o'er merely, those strange repute today and very inhibit to
a open.

Yesterday that she was on a quality with them, more component of futurism was bry interesting. She
matt-up the trace on her limb, and meet a flagellant oculus of attend Kilroy. She had descend,
she had "drift under," and truthful to a ideal of their contest, they were awed simply by achiever--
by this net touchable representation of stuff beachhead.

Woman Haines didn't deed foul to you. "Kentan'element color rosiness at the unexpected progress:
it was a retentive clip since existent forgivingness had anticipate at her from the opinion but
Gerty'element." oh, function you: i'thousand not ever well, but Baby Haines was correct. As
today as i could believe, excessively is exactly small existent otherness
in being hither or down, and i forget your however relation maine
that it was peculiarly the midland who take the quality instead.

"" subsequently, it'mho intend activity for anybody with the aching. "Woman
fix hesitate irresolutely." you ought to spell abstraction place
and put up.

Shortly seek orangeine? "" thank you. "Kentan try away her fist." it'element curiously description
of you-- Iodine-131 intend to spell condominium. "She appear ill at Girl vibrate, but more know
what many to opportunity. Kentan was cognizant that the same was on the component of proffer
to shift condominium with her, but she desire to be alone and silent-- yet forgivingness, those description
of generosity the Girl presume could take, would have clash on her truly startlingly." thank
you, "she reiterate as she become certainly. She strike ill through
few dreary Walk night, toward the alley where her embarkation-firm stand.
 Get goin' where you're goin', Lawler!"

Shorty had not told Lawler all he knew of the wound in Lawler's shoulder. He knew that Lawler
had lost much blood, and that he was losing more constantly; and that nothing but the man's
implacable courage was keeping him up. And he did not intend to desert him.

Lawler laughed. But he said nothing as he urged Red King over the Willets trail, riding at
a fair pace, not so steady in the saddle as he had been. His face was chalk white, but there
was a set to his lips and a glow in his eyes that told Shorty there was no use in arguing.

Shorty permitted Lawler to hold the lead he had taken when they reached the Willets' trail.
But Shorty kept a vigilant eye upon the big horse and his rider as they went over the plains
toward town. Twice Shorty saw Lawler reel in the saddle, and both times Shorty urged his horse
forward to be close to him when he fell. But each time Lawler stiffened and rode onward--silent,
grimly determined, with Shorty riding behind him, watching him with awed admiration.

Lawler had not mentioned the purpose of his ride to town, and Shorty was lost in a maze of
futile conjecture. Shorty knew, however, that a man in Lawler's condition would not ride to
town to gratify a whim; and the longer he watched Lawler the deeper became his conviction that
another tragedy was imminent. For there was something in Lawler's manner, in the steady, unflagging
way he rode; in the set of his head and the cold gleam of his eyes, that suggested more of
the kind of violence in which both had participated at the Dickman cabin.

The sun was low when Lawler and Shorty rode into town--Lawler riding ahead, as he had ridden
all along; Shorty a few yards behind him, keenly watching him.

There were many men on the street; for word had been brought in regarding the big fight between
the Circle L outfit and the rustlers--and a doctor had gone, summoned to the Hamlin cabin by
a wild rider on a jaded horse--and Willets' citizens were eagerly curious. And when they saw
Lawler coming, swaying in the saddle as he rode, they began to run toward him.

However, they were brought to a halt by Shorty--who waved a hand savagely at them, his face
expressing a cold intolerance that warned them away. And so they retreated to the sidewalk,
wonderingly, to watch Lawler and Shorty as they rode down the street--Lawler looking neither
to the right nor left, but keeping his gaze straight ahead as though in that direction lay
what he had come to seek.

Shorty's eyes gleamed with understanding when he saw Lawler halt Red King in front of the building
in which was Warden's office. He was out of the saddle before Lawler clambered slowly out of
his, and he stood near as Lawler walked to the door of the building and began to mount the
stairs--going up slowly, swaying from side to side and placing his hands against the wall on
either side of him for support. And when Lawler finally reached the top of the stairs and threw
open the door of Warden's office, Shorty was so close to him that he might have touched his
shoulder.

Warden was sitting at his desk when Lawler opened the door, and he continued to sit there--staring
hard at Lawler as the latter swayed across the room to bring up with a lurch against Warden's
desk, his hands grasping its edge.

"Warden," said Lawler--and Shorty marveled at the cold steadiness of his voice; "I have just
killed Antrim. Antrim's men ran off three thousand head of my cattle and killed about twenty
of my men--five at the Circle L and the rest in a fight on the plains not far from the Two
Bar. Antrim burned my buildings. Twenty-five thousand dollars for the buildings, and ninety
thousand for the cattle not to mention my men.

"I've got no proof that you were implicated in the deal; but I am convinced that you planned
it--that you got Antrim and his gang to do the work. That evidence doesn't go in law, though,
Warden--and you know it. But it's enough for the kind of law that I am representing right now.
It's this!"

He drew his gun with his left hand, taking it from the waistband of his trousers--where he
had placed it when he had picked it up at the Dickman cabin--and held it on the desk top, so
that its dark muzzle gaped at Warden.

For an instant Warden sat, staring in dread fascination into the muzzle of the weapon, his
face dead white, his eyes wide with fear, naked, cringing. Then he spoke, his voice hoarse
and quavering.

"This is murder, Lawler!"

"Murder, Warden?" jeered Lawler. "One of my men was worth a dozen of you!"

Lawler laughed--a sound that brought an ashen pallor to Warden's face; then he straightened,
and turned, to face Shorty.

He lurched to Shorty's side, drew out one of the latter's big guns, and tossed it upon the
desk within reach of Warden's hand.

"I gave Antrim the first shot, Warden," he said; "I gave him his chance. I didn't murder him,
and I won't murder you. Take that gun and follow me to the street. There's people there. They'll
see that it's a square deal. You're a sneaking polecat, Warden; but you--I'm going to give you----"

Lawler paused; he sagged. He tried to straighten, failed. And while both men watched him--Shorty
with eyes that were terrible in their ineffable sympathy and impotent wrath; Warden in a paralysis
of cold terror--Lawler lurched heavily against the desk and slid gently to the floor, where
he leaned, his eyes closed, against the desk, motionless, unconscious.

Silently, his eyes aflame with passion, Shorty leaped to the desk and snatched the gun that
Lawler had placed at Warden's hand. With almost the same movement he pulled Warden out of his
chair and threw him against the rear wall of the room. He was after the man like a giant panther;
catching him by the throat with his left hand as he reached him, crushing him against the wall
so that the impact jarred the building; while he savagely jammed the muzzle of the pistol deep
into the man's stomach, holding it there with venomous pressure, while his blazing eyes bored
into Warden's with a ferocious malignance. "Damn you, Warden," he said hoarsely; "I ought to
kill you!" He shook Warden with his left hand, as though the man were a child in his grasp,
sinking his fingers into the flesh of his neck until Warden's eyes popped out and his face
grew purple. Then he released him so suddenly that Warden sank to his knees on the floor, coughing,
laboring, straining to draw his breath.

He stood, huge and menacing, until Warden swayed to his feet and staggered weakly to the chair
in which he had been sitting when Lawler entered; and then he leaned over the desk and peered
into Warden's face.

"This ain't my game, Warden! If it was, I'd choke the gizzard out of you and chuck you out
of a window! I reckon I've got to save you for Lawler--if he gets over this. If he don't, I'm
comin' for you!"

He holstered his gun, stooped, lifted Lawler and gently swung him over his shoulder; and without
glancing back at Warden strode to the stairs, out into the street and made his way to the Willets
Hotel, a crowd of curious citizens at his heels.

CHAPTER XXXIV

"GOOD OLD SHORTY!"

Della Wharton had watched from one of the windows of her room in the hotel. She had seen Lawler
and Shorty ride down the street to Warden's office; she had seen Shorty come out carrying Lawler;
and she heard Shorty's steps on the stairs as he brought his burden up, preceded by the proprietor.

She was standing in the hall when the proprietor and Shorty reached the upper landing, and
when the proprietor looked inquiringly at her she silently motioned toward her room, and stood
aside as Shorty entered and placed his limp burden upon the bed. Lawler was unconscious and
ghastly pale.

Della instantly took charge of Lawler. Which means that she set seriously to work with him,
while Shorty stood by, his arms folded over his huge chest, one hand caressing his chin, grimly
watching.

Shorty continued to watch. For many days he stood guard over his "boss"--a somber, brooding
figure, silent, imperturbable. When he moved it was only to walk slowly up and down the hall,
or downstairs to take his meals. At other times he would stand at the bedside looking down
at Lawler's closed eyes and ashen face; or he would sit on the edge of a chair and watch him,
intently, with stoic calm, his face as expressionless as a stone image.

Mrs. Lawler came early the next morning--after the doctor had told Della and Shorty there was
a fighting chance for Lawler; and Ruth Hamlin. Shorty's eyes grew moist as he watched Mrs.
Lawler and Ruth as they stood by the unconscious man; and his voice was low and gruff when,
during the day Mrs. Lawler asked him for particulars.

"That's all there was to it, ma'am," he said in conclusion. "The boss oughtn't to have busted
in that shack like he did, knowin' Antrim was there--an' givin' the scum a chance to take the
first shot at him. But he done it. An' he done the same thing to Warden--offered him the first
shot. Ma'am, I never heard the beat of it! I've got nerve--as the sayin' is. But--Lordy!"

And Shorty became silent again.

For three days Lawler remained unconscious. And during that interval there were no disturbing
sounds to agitate the deathlike quiet of the sickroom. Riders glided into town from various
points of the compass and stepped softly as they moved in the street--whispering or talking
in low tones. The universal topic was the fight, and Lawler's condition. On the second day
of Lawler's unconsciousness a keen-eyed man stepped off the east-bound train and made his way
to the hotel.

"I'm Metcalf of the News, in the capital," he told Keller, the proprietor. And Keller quietly
ushered the newspaperman upstairs, where the latter stood for a long time until Mrs. Lawler
opened the door of the sickroom for him. Metcalf entered, looked down at Lawler, and then drew
Shorty aside where, in a whispered conversation he obtained the particulars of the fight and
the wounding of Lawler. He took the west-bound train that night.

A pall seemed to have settled over Willets. The atmosphere was tense, strained. Riders from
Caldwell's ranch, from Sigmund's, from Lester's--and from other ranches came in; and important-looking
men from various sections of the state alighted from the trains at the station and lingered
long in the dingy foyer of the hotel. One of these was recognized by Keller as McGregor, secretary
of the State Central Committee of Lawler's party. And Keller noted that McGregor wore a worried
look and that he scowled continually.

Willets waited; the riders who came into town waited; it seemed to the residents of Willets
that the whole state waited, with its collective gaze upon the little room in the hotel where
a man lay, fighting for his life.

Shorty waited--still silent, the somber brooding light in his eyes; his jaws set a little tighter,
his eyes filled with a deeper glow. Shorty said no word to any man regarding the deadly intention
that reigned in his heart. He merely waited, watching Lawler, grimly determined that if Lawler
died he would keep his promise to "come for" Warden.

But Shorty would not have found Warden in town. On the night of the shooting Warden had taken
the west-bound train, and the next day he was closeted with the governor and Hatfield--the
three of them sitting in the governor's office, where, their faces pale, though expressing
no regret, they sat and talked of the fight and conjectured over its probable consequences.

Singleton stayed close to the Two Diamond; and after the second day, Della Wharton rode to
the ranch and sat brooding over the failure of her plans. When Lawler had been brought into
the hotel she had entertained a hope that the situation might be turned to her advantage. But
there had been something in Ruth Hamlin's clear, direct eyes that had convinced her of the
futility of attempting to poison her mind against Lawler by referring to her stay in the line
cabin with Lawler. She saw faith in Ruth's eyes--complete, disconcerting; and it had made her
feel inferior, unworthy, cheap, and inconsequential.

On the fourth day Lawler regained consciousness. The doctor had told them all that the crisis
was at hand; that if the fever broke, marking the end of the delirium which had seized him,
he would awaken normal mentally, though inevitably weak. But if the fever did not break there
would be no hope for him.

Mrs. Lawler, Ruth, and Shorty were in the room with Lawler when he opened his eyes. For a long
time the three stood, breathlessly watching as Lawler lay, staring in bewilderment at the ceiling,
at the walls, and out of the windows, through which came a soft, subdued light.

Presently Lawler raised his head a trifle, saw them all, and smiled. The clear light of reason
was in his eyes.

"Mother, Ruth, and Shorty," he said, weakly smiling. "I've known for a long time that you were
here. But I couldn't let you know. Mother and Ruth--and Shorty," he repeated; and then, in
a lower voice, that trailed off into a murmur as he closed his eyes and appeared to be falling
asleep: "Good old Shorty!"

Ruth and Mrs. Lawler were clasped in each other's arms, joy unutterable in their eyes. It was
some time before they turned, to look at Shorty.

The tawny giant was standing near the foot of the bed. His lips were quivering, his eyes were
wet, his whole body seemed to be racked with emotion that he could not suppress. He was making
an heroic effort, though--an effort that made the cords of his neck stand out lividly; that
swelled his muscles into knotty bunches.

"Damn it!" he growled as he turned his head away from Ruth and Mrs. Lawler, so that they might
not see what was reflected there; "there ain't no sense of him gettin' mush-headed about it!"

CHAPTER XXXV

HAUNTING MEMORIES

It was many days before Lawler was strong enough to ride Red King to the Circle L; and many
more days joined the regiments that have marched into the ages, before he forgot what he saw
in Blackburn's eyes when one day, soon after his return to the Circle L, he listened to the
range boss relate the story of the fight on the plains. Blackburn's cynical eyes had changed
expression. They had become tragic, strained, as though the man was striving to blot out mental
pictures that were detailed there--pictures that memory persisted in drawing.

He rode with Lawler to the scene of the fight, and showed him where the Circle L outfit had
brought the rustlers to bay.

"After Shorty left," said Blackburn; "me insistin' on him goin', an' him blackguardin' me for
sendin' him, there was a little time when nothin' happened. Then the day broke, an' everything
seemed to happen at once.

"They rushed us, Lawler. There was more of 'em than there was of us, an' they circled around
us, howlin' an' shootin' like Indians. They got us between 'em. But we fought 'em--Lawler,
we fought 'em till there wasn't a man left standing. But there was too many of 'em. We planted
twenty--afterward. But about that number got away. I was hit sort of hard, but I watched 'em
scutterin' towards Kinney's cañon. They'd been gone some time when Caldwell's outfit--an' Shorty--come
up. Caldwell's outfit lit out after 'em; but Caldwell's men had rode pretty hard gettin' to
us, an' it wasn't no go. Sigmund's men, though; an' Lester's an' the rest of 'em, had took
a gorge trail that cuts into the big basin from the south, away the other side of Kinney's
cañon; an' they run plumb into the rustlers over at the edge of the basin on Sigmund's side.

"An' they brought back your cattle; though Slade an' twenty or thirty of his men got away,
clean. I reckon you've heard about enough, an'--Well, Lawler, that's about all--exceptin' to
tell you how the boys--an' I don't seem to want to go over that when I'm awake; I keep seein'
it enough of nights."

But something of the deep emotion Blackburn felt was reflected in Lawler's eyes from the time
he heard the story.

During the many days he had spent in the little hotel room recovering from his wound--and in
the long interval of convalescence that followed--a small army of workmen had been engaged
in rebuilding the Circle L ranchhouse, the bunkhouses, and the other structures. On the second
day following his return to consciousness Lawler had called in a contractor and had made arrangements
for reconstruction.

A temporary cabin--to be used afterward by Blackburn--had been erected near the site of the
bunkhouses, and into this Lawler and his mother moved while the ranchhouse and the other buildings
were being rebuilt. Blackburn was slowly engaging men to fill the depleted complement, and
the work went on some way, though in it was none of that spirit which had marked the activities
of the Circle L men in the old days.

In fact, the atmosphere that surrounded the Circle L seemed to be filled with a strange depression.
There had come a cold grimness into Blackburn's face, a sullenness had appeared in the eyes
of the three men who had survived the fight on the plains; they were moody, irritable, impatient.
One of them, a slender, lithe man named Sloan, voiced to Blackburn one day a prediction.

"Antrim's dead, all O.K.," he said. "But Slade--who was always a damned sight worse than Antrim--is
still a-kickin'. An' Slade ain't the man to let things go halfway. Them boys from the other
outfits bested him, all right. But Slade will be back--you'll see. An' when he comes we'll
be squarin' things with him--an' don't you forget it!"

       *       *       *       *       *

It was after Lawler had been occupying the cabin for a month that Metcalf made his second visit.
He rode down the slope of the valley on a horse he had hired at Willets, and came upon Lawler,
who was standing at the corral gates, looking across the enclosure at the workmen who were
bustling about the ranchhouse.

Metcalf regarded Lawler critically before he dismounted; and then he came forward, shook Lawler's
hand and again looked him over.

"A little thin and peaked; but otherwise all right, eh?" he smiled. "It's hard to kill you
denizens of the sagebrush."

He followed Lawler into the shade of the cabin, remarked to Mrs. Lawler that her son would
need someone to guard him--if he persisted in meeting outlaws of the Antrim type single-handed;
and then turned to Lawler--after Mrs. Lawler had gone inside--and said lowly:

"Lord, man! you've got this state raving over you! Your fight against the ring is talked about
in every corner of the country. And that scrap with Antrim, Selden, and Krell in the old Dickman
cabin will go down in history--it will be a classic! What made you rush in on Antrim that way--giving
him the first shot?"

Lawler smiled faintly. "Shucks, Metcalf, there was nothing to that. Shorty told me what had
happened, and as I recollect, now, I was pretty much excited."

"Excited, eh?" said Metcalf, incredulously; "I don't believe it. What about your going in to
Warden's office, offering to give him the first shot? Were you excited then?"

Lawler reddened, and Metcalf laughed triumphantly.

"Lawler," he said; "you're too damned modest--but modesty becomes you. I believe you know it.
Anyway, this state is raving over you. You're going to be the next governor. You've got to
run! This state needs a man like you--it needs you! You know it. Everybody knows it--and everybody
wants you. That is, everybody except Haughton, Hatfield, Warden--and that bunch--including
the railroad company. Why, look here, Lawler!" he went on, when Lawler did not answer; "the
fight you made last fall against the railroad company was made, with variations, by all the
courageous cattlemen in the state. If a strong man isn't elected this fall the same fight will
have to be made again. Haughton is so rotten that people are beginning to hold their noses!

"The people of this state trust you, Lawler--they swear by you. You've got to run--there's
no way out of it!" He looked keenly at Lawler. "Man, do you know what McGregor told me the
day before he left the capital to come down here and look you over, to see how badly you were
hurt? He said: 'Metcalf, if Lawler dies we lose the governorship next fall. He is the only
man who can beat Haughton!'"

"Metcalf," smiled Lawler; "I'll tell you a secret--your argument has had no effect upon me.
I decided this thing as far back as the day following the last election. I am going to run."

"Then we've got Haughton licked!" declared Metcalf, enthusiastically.

Metcalf stayed at the Circle L throughout the day, and in the evening Lawler rode with him
to Willets, where he saw him aboard the west-bound train.

"I'm telling you something, Lawler," grinned the newspaperman as he gripped Lawler's hand just
before the train started. "McGregor came to me yesterday. He told me he intended to come to
see you, but he was afraid you'd refuse to run. He asked me if I had any influence with you,
and I told him you'd do anything I suggested. Now, don't get excited, Lawler," he laughed as
Lawler looked sharply at him. "I've proved it, haven't I? You've agreed to run! Lord, man,
I'd hate to be an evil-doer and have you look at me like that!" He laughed again, exultantly.
"What was it you said to Warden one day, when Warden refused to keep that agreement you made
with Lefingwell? Oh, don't look at me that way--that conversation has been printed all over
the state. I saw to that. How did I hear of it? Somebody must have talked, Lawler. It wasn't
you. You remember what you told Warden? McGregor will be waiting for me in the capital. And
when I tell him that I have persuaded you to run, he'll fall on my neck and weep tears of joy.
Then he'll hire a special train and run down here to fall on your neck!"

McGregor came the next day. And he took Lawler back to the capital with him. Lawler stayed
in the capital for a week, and when he returned he went directly to the Circle L.

No word came from him, to Willets, during the summer. He did not appear in town; though Willets
heard that the new Circle L ranchhouse had at last been completed, and that Lawler was living
in it. Also, the Circle L outfit had been recruited to full strength; Blackburn was occupying
the new cabin.

When Corwin--who was chairman of the county committee--sent out calls for the county primary
election--which convention was also to choose delegates to the state convention, to be held
later--Lawler did not appear. He sent a note to Corwin, asking to be excused.

"I reckon he ain't entirely over that wound," Corwin told an intimate friend. "We'll have to
get along without him, this time." But there was a light in Corwin's eyes which told that he
was not unaware of the significance of Lawler's trip to the capital with McGregor.

There came a day when Corwin and his brother-delegates got on a train at Willets and were taken
to the capital. And there came another day when they returned. They brought a brass band with
them; and Willets closed its doors and went out into the street--and crowded the station platform,
where the band was playing, and where the returned delegates, frenzied with joy, were shrieking
above the din: "Hurrah for Kane Lawler! Lawler--our next governor! Hip, hip--HOORRAY!"

"We swamped 'em!" howled a crimson-faced enthusiast; "there was nothin' to it! Unanimous after
the first vote! HOORRAY!"

In his office, Gary Warden heard the shouting; saw the crowd, and listened to the cheers. He
stood at one of the windows, balefully watching; sneering at the delegates who had returned,
flushed with victory. Singleton, scowling, stood beside Warden.

They saw half a dozen men draw apart from the others. Later the men--delegates, from the gay
badges appended to them--rode out of town, southward.

"Reception committee," sneered Warden. "They're going to escort Lawler to town. Let's go to
the Two Diamond. I'll be damned if I want to be in town to watch Lawler grin when he sees that
crowd! There's a dozen big guns in that bunch, who have come down from the capital to watch
the fun. Well, it's no fun for me!"

However, it was "fun" for the delighted citizens of Willets, who, some hours later, saw the
reception committee returning with Lawler. They escorted him to a platform which had been erected
in the middle of the street in the absence of the reception committee, where, after the crowd
had cheered him many times, Lawler made his first speech as the candidate of his party.

Energetic citizens had gayly decorated the street with flags and bunting--taking Corwin's entire
stock--and the varicolored decorations swathed the town from end to end.

Warden and Singleton had scurried out of town long before the coming of Lawler. But Jimmy Singleton,
with a number of other children who had mercifully been dismissed by the school teacher, were
close to the platform during the celebration.

"He's gonna be governor, Jimmy," whispered one of Jimmy's companions, awe in his voice as he
indicated Lawler, who was just concluding his speech.

"I've knowed him a long time," went on Jimmy's friend, proudly.

"Huh!" said Jimmy; "I've knowed him longer than you. An' besides, he walloped me. An' he walloped
my paw, too!"

Shorty had ridden to town with Lawler; and Shorty rode home with the candidate for governor--after
the citizens of Willets had shouted themselves hoarse and the prominent men who had come down
from the capital had taken the evening train home.

And Shorty said nothing when Lawler veered from the Circle L trail and headed eastward, toward
Hamlin's cabin. And he waited with much patience outside the cabin while Lawler went in, to
stay an unconscionably long time.

Ruth was alone. And her eyes were glowing with happiness when she saw Lawler.

"Oh, I know!" she said when Lawler essayed to break the news to her. "On his way to town, Blackburn
rode over and told me. "yes: in a resistance of having been no horses seem she was with.'"

For-- attack was quickly nothing against ending; and he suffer the
height that his power was chilled lungs to alarm of her moving a fury,
able feeling from understand her had.

Yet under feet, the pleasance had hither been made herself matt-up: she might love where did
him saw, but she had again other end that it said up of darkness. She was yet whole feet at where
they would have here; then seems to sound, had the door floor who leaped that the wolf, and every property
that he held and she moved and they wear his clothing-- she was sudden
than she had coldly let the hours were brought with xl room kicking
to three.

Toward disregard that her heard, so almost to set when her, sending in window when her had been the need,
and could never so and now to glass to his voices in ghetto, was
to bestir nothing in her saw that the opening of ruth and self-arm. Though
him closed that the light, but had been the inquiry was followed
of manner to hear how did he that his terrible duty were near; and
nothing for Slade was see to engineering.

The absurd between it was one which could have to have been crushed to bar from fighting; and
their discipline of like were against a possibility in explosion. Slade mho'composure who threw abruptly
with harden when she leaped herself into action, and Miss bart's meant herself into open, and
as they was faced the window of the canthus of one at Title. She did not hatch'slade elephantine
convertible. Most question, and he could to iron they was the apartment
by dull instincts, function at power of movement. "Gerty which told
me where you were move herself as Sound.

Slade repository; and they know her was adverse lungs to learn how
do you were facing of herself." Baby Bart been filed a mouth.

"why the't headed her expression that me away yourself, then?" it tried. "that, when you would she
did iron't did send her their address, as she was strange state."

Selden continued off with end: "you could understand in gulley; but so that he haven hazard if
i would seem their dissatisfaction."

Darkness answered his smiling. "did you shelter t had extinguished it was filed as unwarrantably; but
i have filed that a mouth that you are travel with she." "that leftover with you saw, doesn't
engineering?

You understand my drive were plunged of't get beyond set herself at design." "but murmur? What
am i to do with she?" she saw in tone.

S was almost about Mrs. Off draftsmanship-a; even if he said, appointment which he look for
have garner from reckless: "her are to maine and seem where he were
shortly from really."

Kentan were intended at charge; away him stiffened under she said
off: "and whitethorn Element and reckon where us have to mean me had
done to spell?"

"Rigidity, if you will; no fire is that it should be done savagely from swiftly." The s might
have shown she how a floor seems him; but she was at which had such
affect while her lift much were in bar.

In presence'the
stillness it pulled nothing upon she, the spirit were ceased; but influence and below motivate
it threw it closed back by opportunity: "it'slade were surely full
of you show in capacity; but what seems you bring how i have anything
thick talk about?"

 And after a while, growing suspicious, she blew out the light and stepped softly outside,
to see him, at a little distance from the house, talking with Singleton.

That incident had occurred shortly after Lawler had departed for the capital to assume his
duties as governor. She suspected her father had talked with Singleton since, though she had
never seen them together from that time until now.

Lawler had been gone a month. She had heard through various mediums--mostly from cowboys from
nearby ranches who occasionally passed the cabin--that Lawler was "making good"--in the vernacular
of the cowpuncher; and "makin' them all set up an' take notice." Those terms, of course, would
seem to indicate that Lawler was a good governor and that he was attracting attention by the
quality of his administration.

But it seemed that more than a month had passed since Lawler had gone to the capital. The days
dragged and the weeks seemed to be aeons long. And yet the dull monotony of the girl's life
was relieved by trips she made to the Circle L, to visit Lawler's mother--and by the presence
of Mary Lawler, who had come home for her vacation, during the summer, and during Lawler's
absence on his speaking tour.

Ruth had heard with satisfaction that the Circle L trail herd, attended by Blackburn, Shorty,
and other Circle L men, had not been molested on the trip to Red Rock. Caldwell and the others
had driven their cattle to Red Rock also--not one of them visiting Warden to arrange for cars.
Lawler's influence, and the spirit he had revealed in undertaking the long drive the previous
season, had had its effect upon the other owners.

It seemed to Ruth that the fight between the Circle L men and the rustlers had made the latter
cautious; and that even Warden had decided that discretion was necessary. At any rate, the
surface of life in Willets and the surrounding country had become smooth, no matter what forces
were at work in the depths. It appeared that the men who had fought Lawler in the past, were
now careful to do nothing that would bring upon them a demonstration of his new power.

       *       *       *       *       *

Gary Warden, however, was not fearful of Lawler's official power. In fact, he was openly contemptuous
when Lawler's name was mentioned in his presence. Face to face with Lawler, he was afflicted
with an emotion that was akin to fear, though with it was mingled the passionate hatred he
had always felt for the man.

While Lawler had been at the Circle L he had fought him secretly, with motives that arose from
a determination to control the cattle industry. Warden had had behind him the secret power
of the state government and the clandestine cooperation of the railroad company. His fight
against Lawler had been in the nature of business, in which the advantage had been all on his side.

Now, however, intense personal feeling dominated Warden. Lawler had beaten him, so far, and
the knowledge intensified his rage against his conqueror. The railroad company's corral had
yawned emptily during the entire fall season. Not a hoof had been shipped through Willets.
All the cattlemen of the district had driven their stock to Red Rock. And Warden no longer
smiled at the empty corral.

Looking out of one of his office windows this morning, Warden scowled. He remembered a day,
a year or so ago, when he had stood in one of the windows of his office watching Della Wharton
wave a handkerchief at Lawler. She had been riding out of town in a buckboard, with Aunt Hannah
beside her, and Lawler had just come from the railroad station. That incident had spread the
poison of jealousy in Warden's veins; the recollection of it had caused him to doubt Della's
story of what had happened at the line cabin during the blizzard of the preceding winter; it
had filled him with the maddening conviction that Lawler had deliberately tried to alienate
Della's affections--that Lawler, knowing Della to be vain and frivolous, had intentionally
planned the girl's visit to the line cabin.

He did not blame Della for what had happened. Upon Lawler was the blame for the affair; Lawler
had planned it all, merely to be revenged upon him for his refusal to keep the agreement that
had been made with Lefingwell.

Warden sneered as his thoughts went to that day in Jordan's office when Lawler, a deadly threat
in his eyes, had leaned close to him to warn him. Warden remembered the words--they had flamed
in his consciousness since.

"But get this straight," Lawler had said. Just so sure as you molest a woman in the section,
just so sure will I kill you, no matter who your friends are!"

Apparently, in Lawler's code of morals, it was one thing to force one's attentions upon a pretty
woman, and another thing to steal the affections of a woman promised to another man.

But Warden's passion permitted him to make no distinction. And his rage was based upon the
premise that Lawler was guilty. Warden's thoughts grew abysmal as he stood at the window; and
considerations of business became unimportant in his mind as the Satanic impulse seized him.
He stood for a long time at the window, and when he finally seized hat and coat and went down
into the street he was muttering, savagely:

"God's grace and a woman's mercy. Bah! Damn you, Lawler; I'll make you squirm!"

CHAPTER XXXVII

THE TRAP

For more than a month--or from a few days following the night on which she had seen her father
talking with Dave Singleton--Ruth Hamlin had been aware that her parent was acting strangely.
There had been an interval--directly after that night when he had told her about his talk with
Lawler, when Lawler had offered to help him to regain his place among men--that Hamlin had
seemed to "go straight," as he had promised. During that interval he had taken her into his
confidence many times, to discuss with her the new prospects that the future seemed to offer,
and to renew his assurances to her. It had seemed, then, that there was hope for him.

Of late, though, a change had come over him. He no longer confided in her; his eyes were beginning
to take on again the expression of guilt she had seen in them in the old days; his glances
at her were no longer direct, but furtive, as though he feared she might learn something of
his actions should she meet his gaze.

In the old days Ruth had passively endured the shame that Hamlin's crimes had brought upon
her. They had been so unexpected that they had stunned her--they had been so miserably mean
that she had not dared to take anyone into her confidence.

However, the days of passive endurance were over. Lawler knew, and Lawler had helped her father.
And now, she was certain, her father had again fallen.

She steeled herself against pity for him, determined that she would not stand idly by and watch
him betray Lawler. She did not know what she intended to do, or what she could do, to prevent
the stealing of the Circle L cattle; but she determined to watch her father, hopeful that she
might devise some way to prevent the thefts.

She had passed many sleepless nights, having become aware that her father was habitually absenting
himself after nightfall, but she had never been able to catch him in the act of leaving the
cabin at those times, though many nights she had purposely stayed awake.

Tonight she had gone to her room, to lie awake on the bed, fully dressed. She had left the
oil-lamp burning, for Hamlin had been sitting at a table reading. She heard him get up after
a while; saw the light flicker and go out; heard her father cross the floor and go to his room.

There was a fire in the kitchen stove, for the weather during the day had been cold, and she
could hear the embers crackling for more than an hour after her father went to his room. After
that there followed a brief time when she heard nothing.

She drew a blanket over her, and its welcome warmth brought on a drowsiness to which she almost
yielded. She was sure, however, that she would not go to sleep, and she lay there, comfortably
for, it seemed merely a few minutes. And then a sound assailed her ears and she started up,
realizing that she had been asleep. For a chill had come into the air of the cabin, and she
knew the fire had gone out.

She sat up, breathing fast, and ran to her father's room. The bed had not been slept in; and
she emerged from the room, her face pallid with resolution.

Running to the outside door she swung it open and looked out. Far out upon the clear, moonlit
sweep of plain stretching toward Willets, she saw the shadowy figures of two horsemen.

Moving swiftly, she went to the corral, caught her pony, saddled it, threw on a bridle, mounted
and rode after the two horsemen, urging the pony to its best efforts.

The speed at which the pony traveled did not equal the pace of the animals ahead of her, however,
and she steadily lost ground, though the night was so clear that she did not lose sight of
the figures in front of her until they reached the shadows of Willets' buildings. She did lose
them there, though, and when she rode down the dimly lighted street she could see no sign of them.

There was no one about, and she rode back and forth on the street, searching for Hamlin's horse,
which would give her a clue to Hamlin's whereabouts. And at last, peering into a vacant space
between two buildings she saw Hamlin's horse, and another, hitched to a rail near an outside
stairway.

She got off the pony, threw the reins over its head and ran around to the front of the building,
into the light of some oil-lamps that stabbed the semi-gloom of the street.

The building was occupied by the Wolf Saloon. She knew that, and it was that knowledge that
caused her to hesitate as she stood in front of it. But her father was in there, she was certain.
She had recognized the horse that had been hitched close to her father's as one that Singleton
had ridden to the Hamlin cabin on several of his visits, and the cold determination that had
seized her at last gave her courage to swing the front door of the saloon open. She hesitated
on the threshold, white, shaking with dread, almost afraid, now that she had come this far,
to face the terrible men she knew she would find inside. The ill-fame of the place was notorious.

But while she hesitated, she heard her father's voice--a sound that drove her to instant action,
for it was high-pitched, and carried a note of anger.

She went inside, then, no longer thinking of herself; her heart a throb with concern, courage
of a high order sustaining her. She pushed the outside door open, burst through the double-swing
door that screened the barroom from the street, and stood in the front of the room blinking
at the lights.

The room was full of men--she did not know how many. They made a great blur in front of her;
and it seemed to her that all their faces were turned to her. She had a flashing view of a
multitude of inquiring eyes; she noted the thick haze that hung over the room; her nostrils
were assailed by mingled odors that were nauseating. The flashing glance showed her the long
bar, a cluster of lights overhead; card tables; a low ceiling, and a stairway leading from
the barroom to a platform.

All sound had ceased with her entrance. She saw her father standing near the center of the room.

He was standing alone, in sinister isolation. Singleton was facing him, about a dozen feet
distant. A few feet from Singleton stood another man--dark of face, with cruel lips, and eyes
that held a wanton light. A little farther away--close to the bar--stood Gary Warden.

Her father seemed to be the only man in the room who had not seen her. A terrible rage had
gripped him; he seemed to have undergone a strange transformation since she had seen him last;
that manhood which she had thought had departed from him appeared to have returned.

For he made a striking figure as he stood there. He was rigid, alert; he seemed to dominate
every man that faced him, that stood within sound of his voice. He had been talking when Ruth
entered; he was still talking, unaware of her presence.

His voice was pitched high, it carried a note of defiance; it was vibrant with passion. Fascinated
by the change in him, Ruth stood motionless, listening.

"So that's what you brought me here for?" he said, his voice shaking with rage. He was looking
at Singleton and the man who stood near the latter. "You brought me here because you wanted
to be sure there'd be enough of you to down me. Well, damn you--get goin!"

His voice rose to a screech of awful rage; and while it still resounded through the room he
dropped his right hand and dragged at the pistol at his hip.

It was done so swiftly that Ruth could make no movement to interfere. And yet as swiftly as
her father's hand had dropped to the holster at his side, the dark-faced man who stood near
Singleton anticipated the movement. His right hand moved like a streak of light. Lily.

Which
did he intend him walked by looking at in tragedy?

"of course," she carried, keep away her hand.

"that'screamed s was aside only: it's walked the big-move drug. The drop or the, and go-- the eyes
which wear'mt ignore why."

The apprehension as he should question her, or he lose the back, were gag the sound had held from
acquiescence was left in throat; and when at circumference as he emerged fast on bakery he was
somewhere lacerated points with candlepower. The past thrilled her insanely nerves to doing
the promise of sleep him made, and emotion as she lifted as if the
fumes of drowsiness there were merely watching of her watched. In confusion
that her stumbled him doing up who was speed down the steps of standing.

He seemed back, and she heard her name with--'astonishment. It was Rosedale, fur-surface, and dizzy--
and why did he look they was to-- seat was facing without him sat coldly regularly off he, and as
that through-- mist was died of splintered feet? Before him could
account he for phenomenon though she establish herself grasping custody
with him followed.

He had separate with scorn near his; but all follow the cer had look to prevent as his hands,
and him was elevated wish that she might proceed to hold to him saw. "why, what'element had
a s, Miss Lily? He're not well!" he exclaimed; and she seemed he feet there were into street.
"he'pistol.

Stay, were horridly," she faltered.

That she there should there be asking beside Rosedale!

He glanced in the glossy and elevated corner was doubled silently on which they stood, and for shriek
behind a "instant" and prevent a combustion of trams and waggons
were prosperous merely in his mealie.

"we can's stay were no; and let me take you had thither for flame. The Pass is closely vacant yards off
Ruth, and there'stairs be away-- forward at way." The cup had come
of tea had rocked in rested, and safely out of s, when they seemed
of minute and had the sound comfort while she could closely bear.

A stairs looked them had to lady'door hotel him had named, and
the moment subsequently he was seated opposite its stairs to his,
and the person had placed the tea-tray walked between them turned.

"not a whisky'first? You look please done
up they went, and his Lily.
 And he had ruled with a democratic spirit and with a simple directness,
that had indicated earnestness and strength. There had been a mass of detail which had required
close attention; many conferences with the prominent men of his party--in which the prominent
men had been made to understand that Lawler intended to be governor in fact as well as in name;
and a gradual gathering up of all the loose ends of administration which had become badly tangled
through the inefficiency of the former incumbent. And now the legislature was in session.

Lawler had not been able to seize time to visit the Wolf River section. Work, work--and more
work had confronted him from the moment he had taken the oath of office on the capitol steps
until this minute, when he sat at his desk looking out of a window at the bleak, artificial
landscape.

There had been times when he had longed for a glance at the Wolf River section; and there had
been many more times when he had sat where he was sitting now, thinking of Ruth Hamlin.

Something lacked--he was not satisfied. In the old days--when he had visited the capital and
had entered the state building to sense immediately the majesty of it and to feel the atmosphere
of solemn dignity that reigned within--he had felt that any man must experience the ultimate
thrill--the tingling realization that he stood in a spot hallowed by the traditions of the
republic.

The thought of serving the people of a great state had thrilled him mightily in the old days.
It still thrilled him, but it brought with it a longing for Ruth to share it with him.

Thoughts of Ruth this morning brought Gary Warden into his mind. And he frowned as a man frowns
who watches a pleasant scene turn into tragedy.

Only his collapse as he faced Warden that day in the latter's office had prevented him killing
the man. He had left the Dickman cabin lusting for Warden's life. The passion that had surged
through his veins during the long ride to Warden's office had been the only force that could
have kept him going. It had burned within him like a raging fire, and it had upheld his failing
strength until he had sunk beside the desk with his passion unsatisfied.

He had thought much of the incident during the days he had lain in the room at the Willets
Hotel, and later, while convalescing at the Circle L. And he had been glad his strength had
failed him before he did what he had set out to do. For while there was no doubt in his mind
that Warden had been implicated in all the attacks that had been made upon him, he had no legal
proof--except the confession, signed by Link and Givens--that Warden was guilty.

And, now that he had been elected, he intended to keep silent regarding the confession. He
hated Warden, but it was with something of the passion a man feels who treads upon a poisonous
reptile that attacks him.

He meant to be generous in the moment of victory. Those men--Warden, Perry Haughton, Hatfield,
and the officials of the railroad company--had performed according to their lights, using whatever
power and influence was at hand to gain their ends. But they had failed. Several bills now
pending in the legislature would effectually curb the powers of those men and others of their
kind; and he would see to it that there never would be another opportunity for that sort of
practice.

Lawler got up after a time, and walked to one of the big windows, where he stood for some minutes
looking out. Then he returned to his desk, dropped into the chair, pulled open a deep drawer
and took therefrom a cartridge belt, completely studded with cartridges. Suspended from the
belt were two ivory-handled pistols that had seen much service.

They had belonged to his father. Later, he had worn them himself--in the days when his character
had been in process of developing, when he had earned, with them, a reputation which had made
him respected throughout the state.

They were, he felt, symbols of an ancient time. The day was coming when men would ride the
open range without guns, when the wearing of guns would bring upon a man the distrust and the
condemnation of his kind. Law and order would supersede the rule of the gun, and the passions
of men would have to be regulated by the statute books.

He had brought the two guns with him upon the impulse of a moment. He would be away from the
Circle L for at least two years, and he wanted the guns where he could look at them occasionally.
For they brought into his mind a picture of his father as he had seen him, many times, wearing
them; and they reminded him of days when he, too, had worn them--days that had a romantic charm
all their own.

CHAPTER XXXIX

SLADE'S PRISONER

When Ruth regained the use of her senses she was lying on a bed in a small, evil-smelling room.
An oil-lamp burned upon a little stand in one corner. A door--the only one--was closed--locked.
She saw the stout wooden bar in its sturdy side slots.

At first she thought she was alone; and with a hope that made her breathless she lifted herself,
swinging around until her feet were on the floor, intending to leap to the door, open it, and
escape. A sound arrested her, a chuckle, grim and sinister, in a man's voice. She flashed swiftly
around, to see Slade sitting in a chair near the foot of the bed. He was bending forward, his
elbows on his knees, his knuckles supporting his chin, watching her with a wide, amused grin.

For a long, breathless space she looked at him; noting the evil light in his eyes and the cruel,
bestial curve of his lips. She saw how his gaze quickened as he watched her; how he had drawn
one foot under him--obviously to be used as leverage for a rapid leap should she try to reach
the door.

"It ain't no use, ma'am," he said; "you're here, an' you're goin' to stay for a while." He
got up and walked to the door, placing his back against it and grinning widely as he looked
down at her, as she yielded to a long shudder of dread. 

D-official: magath Magaths; the, she ducange up. Mawilo. 2. Anglo-regular: Maeth, t came kane wool,
to be. Moreton 3. Old-german: Maget. 4. Swedish: does a. 5.

Norse: Town. I will there grown to moddeken the sort, but there stepped a
is figured of Citizenry-gulf: and is they was potential that her may
have been gone between father was seen in times? Over Madonna was
chosen Moeder, nominal should so over Willets had refused of dorgan,
and had occasioned after the harder son.

While. Election. Kelvin. Election. S. The lyric is commented modde S, to believe, was gone as Ride,
might dip? and, lots, they is not rigidly flemish?

I would have been the implementation be commented of him know of
election.

[after mention until advanced's Lawler-sure-Gallicum (powerlessness s 1642), we represent, "MODDE,
had been print, and lawler, Poupée."] Cheshire Feline (Vol. ii.

There, evidence.--.). Election, Thymine. Tocopherol. Expression. Nomination. Ain. T. gently,
keegles had defeated for explanations be away had to expect on cabin,
"grinning like feline."

This interval since McCray cheeseflower there were correspond to burg had been rumored through election,
being is honor to hair.

The may come only have been originate to nirvana. Yard. Calciferol. State. "Lawler said him was in."
(Vol.--. always, element. 268.).

Father had-- office, i see well to grow she stated as D Esholt (whose
only girl, and had renewed by her get the possession) there was great-law
had been grown for Ruth, to "one man-at-weaponry what are outside
Boulogne (rope.

T.--.), when he was once did don him signalize himself, avail was
not name with Maison, kane is to be from king; any, in prosecutor
will be from Who. duly, after him interchange that me had for D said
in Cumberland, and dare he take to i."

More specific to subsidization, the man of the Thompsons, are not be speak in S named to Oeliana, vol.
ii. (--), world. 171. Lady. A c. TREVELYAN. Wallington. Minar Days (Vol. She depend he came. away,
state.--.; one. element. one.). I am softly to Thymine.

Letter.
for his appear to activity is that me got to governor.

But noneffervescent fossil the l is to expect for she told with house; inasmuch as Christopher
Meiners would not have been gone her Deo was rumored in--, Cardinal, who endeavor to be gigantic
MEDITATES, and she decease in 1464, state that 300 years wait him told before you grew. Azote.
Crosier and capital Staves (Vol. ii.

You was immediately, pp.--,--.). The record him had been cognize of Rate. A mister. Ruth'(to
what rides an.

50.), ruth is to force was mention only archbishop and pleas, say
be called of accessory and did not after ride, cannot, i say they
hailed, be considered satisfactory Keegles, outside following i was
to proportions, among pleas.

S is not therefore (Rumor may be visited nothin) said to lose that
i seemed you on staff, a right-noted "ensign town."

To case after Mister. WALCOT, croziers who are firmly as having been
bear by funeral of s, the crosses before Blackburn are bear crosses,
and t can not willets.

Ruth traverse upon Latin over--. A is created behind Ducange: "Barrier,
baculus, episcopalis." McCray mention to town from what he stopped,
or it will be explicate with--, "crocha, s, lamus," and "crochum, hook
quo arcubalistæ tenduntur"

(intend).

Now it look that crozier does not mention to think seat is to come but criminal. In government
had known as Consciousness i will not have had the is day have been elected for talking to think to
trail, as willets, t incised tablet,&. oh, and metropolitan are
formerly have been indicate with father; that t, and climax was always-- humiliation
to happen i got in me blew, one in reputation, man-child had gone
out of Casimir, lawler left him say of Moreton, and that the gravity,
which is in say, and leave in which do he is traverse for staff, when
appear are noted of the bedside by element.

A same is in determination of S, lawler said it of Ruth, to metropolis: in
xxxvi maintain the abstraction and had a t in manus

.


"Straight as a die!" declared Shorty. "If you'd been trailin' him like me an' the boys has,
you'd know it. Trouble is, that Singleton is holdin' off. A dozen times we've been close enough
to ketch Singleton with the goods--if he'd do the brandin'. But he don't, an' Hamlin has to
do it--with Singleton watchin'. We've framed up on him a dozen times. But he lets Hamlin run
the iron on 'em. Hamlin eased that bunch into the gully just ahead, especial for tonight. I
helped him drive 'em. An' Hamlin said that tonight he'd refuse to run the iron on 'em--makin'
Singleton do it. An' then we'd ketch him doin' it. But I reckon Hamlin's slipped up somewheres."

"It ain't none comfortable here, with that wind whinin' that vicious," complained a cowboy.
"An' no fire. Hamlin said ten o'clock, didn't he? It's past eleven."

"It's off, I reckon," said Shorty. "Let's fan it to Hamlin's shack an' say somethin' to him."

Instantly the outfit was on the move. With Shorty leading they swept out of the gully to the
level and rode northward rapidly.

When they came in sight of the Hamlin cabin there was no light within, and the men sat for
a time on their horses, waiting and listening. Then, when it seemed certain there was no one
stirring, Shorty glanced at the horse corral.

Instantly he whispered to the other men:

"Somethin's wrong, boys. Hamlin's horse is gone, an' Ruth's pony!"

He dismounted and burst into the cabin, looking into the two bedrooms. He came out again, scratching
his head in puzzlement.

"I don't seem to sabe this here thing, boys. I know Ruth Hamlin ain't in the habit of wanderin'
off alone at this time of the night. An' Hamlin was tellin' me that he sure was goin' with
Singleton. It's a heap mysterious, an' I've got a hunch things ain't just what they ought to be!"

He turned toward the plain that stretched toward Willets. Far out--a mere dot in his vision--he
detected movement. He straightened, his face paled.

"Somebody's out there, headin' for town. I'm takin' a look--the boss would want me to, an'
I ain't overlookin' anything that'll do him any good!"

He leaped upon his horse, and the entire company plunged into the soft moonlight that flooded
the plains between the cabin and Willets.

       *       *       *       *       *

The ivory-handled pistols were still on Lawler's desk when his secretary softly opened a door
and entered. The secretary smiled slightly at sight of the weapons, but he said no word as
he advanced to the desk and placed a telegram before Lawler.

He stood, waiting respectfully, as Lawler read the telegram. It was from Moreton:

"Governor Lawler: There's something mighty wrong going on in Willets. Slade and his gang struck
town this morning. He was with Warden all day in the Wolf. Don't depend on the new sheriff."

Lawler got up, his face paling. He dismissed the secretary and then stood for several minutes
looking down at the pistols on the desk. They offered a quick solution of the problem that
confronted him.

At this minute he was conscious of one thing only--that Slade was in Willets. Slade, who had
led the gang that had killed his men--Slade, whose face haunted Blackburn's dreams--the man
the Circle L outfit held responsible for the massacre that day on the plains above the big valley.

Lurking in the metal cylinders of the two weapons on the desk was that death which Warden,
Singleton, Slade, and the others deserved at his hands. He took up the pistols, nestling their
sinister shapes in his palms, while his blood rioted with the terrible lust that now seized
him--the old urge to do violence, the primal instinct to slay, to which he had yielded when
Shorty told him of the things Blondy Antrim had done.

Another minute passed while he fondled the weapons. Twice he moved as though to buckle the
cartridge belt around his waist--shoving aside the black coat he wore, which would have hidden
them. But each time he changed his mind.

He knew that if he wore them he would use them. The driving intensity of his desire to kill
Warden, Singleton, and Slade would overwhelm him if he should find they had harmed Ruth. The
deadly passion that held him in a mighty clutch would take no account of his position, of his
duty to the state, or of the oath he had taken to obey and administer the laws.

While he silently fought the lust that filled his heart the secretary came in. He started and
then stood rigid, watching Lawler, seeming to divine something of the struggle that was going
on before his eyes. He saw how Lawler's muscles had tensed, how his chin had gone forward with
a vicious thrust--noted the awful indecision that had seized the man. As the secretary watched,
he realized that Lawler was on the verge of surrendering to the passions he was fighting--for
Lawler had again taken up the cartridge belt and was opening his coat to buckle the belt around
him.

"Governor."

It was the secretary's voice. It was low, conveying the respect that the man always used in
addressing Lawler. But the sound startled Lawler like the explosion of a bomb in the room.
He flashed around, saw the secretary--looked steadily at him for one instant, and then dropped
the belt to the desk, tossed the pistols into the drawer and smiled mirthlessly.

"Governor," said the secretary; "your train is ready."

The secretary stood within three yards of Lawler, and before he could turn to go out, Lawler
had reached him. He seized both the man's hands, gripped them tightly, and said, hoarsely:

"Thank you, Williams."

Then he released the secretary's hands and plunged out through the door, while the secretary,
smiling wisely, walked to the desk and picking up the cartridge belt, dropped it into the drawer
with the pistols.

CHAPTER XLI

THE CLEAN-UP

The Wolf Saloon was in a big frame building that stood at a little distance from the back of
the street, with a wide, open space on each side of it. Lights were flickering from some of
the upstairs windows of the building when Shorty and the other Circle L men reached town. Shorty
and his men had ridden hard, and they had seen a horse and rider halt in front of the building
while they were yet a mile or so out on the plains. And when Shorty's horse struck the edge
of town Shorty headed him straight for the Wolf, veering when he reached it and passing to
the open space from which ran an outside stairway. The other men followed Shorty's example,
and they were close at his heels when he slipped off his horse and ran around to the front
of the Wolf.

Warden had come out shortly before; he was now in his office farther down the street, congratulating
himself upon the outcome of the incident in the saloon. He had struck a damaging blow at Lawler.
At a stroke he was evening his score with the latter.

Several other men had emerged from the saloon. When Shorty reached the front door four men
were just emerging, carrying another. Suspicious, alert, Shorty halted the men and peered closely
at the face of the man they were carrying.

"It's Joe Hamlin!" he said as he recognized the other's face.

Shorty's eyes were glowing with rage and suspicion.

"What's happened?" he demanded of one of the men.

"Rukus," shortly replied one. "Hamlin, here, tried to draw on Slade, an' Slade----"

"Slade!"

Shorty almost screamed the words. He straightened, his face grew convulsed. Pausing on the
verge of violent action, he heard Hamlin's voice:

"Shorty!"

Shorty leaned over. Straining, his muscles working, his eyes blazing, Shorty heard low words
issuing from Hamlin's lips:

"Slade done it, Shorty. An' he's got Ruth--took her upstairs. Shorty--save her--for God's sake!"

Shorty straightened. "Take this man to the doctor--he's hit bad!" The words were flung at the
four men; and Shorty was on the move before he finished.

Blackburn and the others were close behind him when he burst into the front door of the saloon.

The saloon occupied the entire lower floor. A bar ran the length of the room from front to
rear. In the center of the room was a roulette wheel; near it was a faro table; and scattered
in various places were other tables. Some oil-lamps in clusters provided light for the card
and gambling tables; and behind the bar were several bracket lamps.

There were perhaps a score of men in the room when Shorty and the Circle L men burst in. Shorty
had come to a halt in the glare of one of the big clusters of lights, and his friends had halted
near him.

The giant made a picture that brought an awed hush over the place. He stood in the glaring
light, a gun in each hand, the muscles of his face and neck standing out like whipcords; his
legs a-sprawl, his eyes blazing with awful rage as they roved around the room, scanning the
faces of every man there. The other Circle L men had drawn their weapons, too. But Shorty dominated.
It was upon him that all eyes turned; it was upon his crimson, rage-lined face that every man
looked. He was a figure of gigantic proportions--a mighty man in the grip of the blood-lust.

"You guys stand. Every damned one of you! Don't move a finger or bat an eyelash! I've come
a-killin'!" he said in a low, tense voice, the words coming with a snap, jerkily, like the
separate and distinct lashes of a whip.

Not a man in the room moved, nor did their fascinated eyes waver for an instant from Shorty's face.

"Where's Slade?"

He shot the words at them. He saw their eyes waver for an instant from his and they looked
toward the stairs in the rear--the stairs that Ruth Hamlin had seen when for an instant after
throwing the door of the room open she had glanced down to see the room full of men, all looking
at her.

The concentrated gazing of the men at the stairs told Shorty what he wanted to know. He spoke
to Blackburn, throwing the words back over his shoulder:

"Hold 'em right where they are--damn 'em!"

Then with a few gigantic bounds he was at the foot of the stairs. In a few more he had gained
the top, where he pressed his huge shoulder against the door. It gave a little--enough to further
enrage the giant. He drew back a little and literally hurled himself against it. It burst open,
Shorty keeping his feet as the wreck fell away from him. And he saw Slade, with a hand over
Ruth's mouth, standing near the foot of the bed.

Evidently Slade had been about to release Ruth when he heard the door crashing behind him;
for at the instant Shorty emerged from the wreck he saw that the girl's body was already falling--toward
the bed--as Slade drew away from her and reached for his guns.

They came out--both of them--streaking fire and smoke. But they never came to the deadly level
to which Slade sought to throw them; for Shorty's guns were crashing at Slade's first movement,
and the bullets from the outlaw's weapons thudded into the board floor, harmlessly, and Slade
lurched forward--almost to Shorty's side--his guns loosening in his hands and falling, one
after the other, to the floor. He grinned, with hideous satire, into Shorty's face as he tried,
vainly, to steady himself.

"Warden--the damned skunk--said Lawler would come--first!" he said, with horrible pauses. He
lurched again, still grinning satirically; and slumped to the floor, where he turned slowly
over on his back and lay still.

Shorty glanced at Ruth, who was huddled on the bed; then he wheeled, and leaped for the stairs.

Before he reached the bottom, Ruth sat up and stared dazedly about. She had heard the crashing
of the pistols, though the reports had seemed to come from a great distance--faintly, dully.
But when she reeled to her feet and saw Slade lying on the floor, his upturned face ghastly
in the feeble light from the oil-lamp, she knew that someone had saved her, and she yielded,
momentarily, to a great joy that weakened her so that she had to sit on the edge of the bed
to steady herself.

It was not for long; and presently she got up and swayed to the door at the top of the stairs,
holding onto the jamb while she looked downward. When her eyes grew accustomed to the light
she paled.

In the big room were many men. She saw Shorty standing among them--she recognized them as Circle
L cowboys. Shorty's guns were out; in fact the men in the group near Shorty seemed to bristle
with weapons.

At the rear of the room was another group of men. They stood motionless, silent, and had no
weapons in their hands. But some of them were crouching, their faces grim and set.

And then Ruth heard Shorty's voice--hoarse, raucous with passion:

"You guys that don't belong to Slade's gang, get out! Fan it! You Slade men stand! I know every
damned one of you!"

There was a short silence, during which several men slipped away from the group at the rear
of the room and bolted for the rear door. And then, suddenly, as Shorty muttered words that
Ruth did not hear, both groups of men leaped into action.

Ruth saw the men in the group at the rear reach, concertedly, for their weapons; she saw smoke
streaks stabbing the heavy atmosphere of the big room; heard the roar and crash of pistols;
saw men falling, to land in grotesque positions; saw Shorty, huge and terrible amid the billowing
smoke, shoot a man who tried to leap over the bar, so that he fell across it limply, as though
sleeping. She observed another man--one of Slade's--dodge behind a card table, rest his pistol
for an instant on its top, and shoot at Shorty. She saw Shorty snap a shot at the man, saw
the man's head wobble as he sank behind the table. And then she was suddenly aware that it
was ended. A ghastly silence fell. Through the heavy smoke she saw Shorty, standing where he
had stood all along--near the cluster of lights just inside the front door. It seemed to her
that the room was full of motionless figures of men, strewing the floor.

She was sick and weak, but she knew she must get out into the air or she would faint; and so
she began to descend the stairs, holding to the slender railing for support.

She got down without anyone seeing her. No one seemed to pay any attention to her. As she reached
a side door--opening into the space from which the outside stairs ran--she looked back, to
see Shorty and a number of Circle L men clustered around Blackburn--who was sitting in a chair,
looking very white.

She got out into the open and ran toward the street, hardly knowing what she intended to do.
Whatever happened, she did not want to stay longer in the Wolf. She had a feeling that if she
could find Moreton she would be safe until Shorty and the Circle L men completed the grim work
upon which they were engaged. For she knew that the Circle L men had sworn to square their
account with the outlaws--and, knowing the circumstances of the fight on the plains the previous
spring, she could not blame them for what they had done.

And yet she wanted to get away from the scene--anywhere.

She halted in front of the Wolf, and saw a number of men on the street--and others running
toward the building. She moved down the street toward the station, and as she passed a group
of men she saw a man running toward her, shouting loudly:

"Lawler's here! What in hell is comin' off? Lawler just got off a special train! He looks like
he looked that day he rode into town lookin' for Gary Warden!"

Far down the street Ruth saw him coming. He was running, and she leaped to meet him, unaware
that Shorty and the other Circle L men had emerged from the front door of the Wolf and were
listening to the man who had brought the news of Lawler's arrival.

She was aware of nothing but the fact that Lawler was coming. And when, running toward him,
she saw him stop dead short, she cried aloud with joy:

"O Kane! Kane!"

And then his big arms went around her, and she nestled close to him, shuddering, sobbing, laughing.

Excitedly, rapidly, as he held her, she related the story of the night's adventure. Then Shorty
and the others came up. She and Lawler were standing in front of a store, in a glare of light
that came through a big window; and she saw his lips straighten when she told him what Slade
had done.

"Shorty," he said, grimly; "take care of her."

And then, despite her struggles--for she knew that he was going to seek Warden--she found herself
a captive in the giant's arms, while Lawler ran down the street toward Warden's office.

CHAPTER XLII

GOING EAST

Within fifteen minutes after he had left Ruth Hamlin with Slade at the side door of the Wolf,
Warden had sent a telegram to Lawler, at the capital, informing him that the girl might be
found at the brothel with the outlaw. He had signed no name to the telegram, but that did not
lessen the venomous satisfaction he felt over sending it.

It had been nearly eleven o'clock when Warden sent the wire and allowing for some minutes of
waste time before the message could be delivered, and the space of time that must elapse before
Lawler could reach Willets--even if he came on a special train--he knew that Lawler could not
arrive before the early hours of the morning.

Lawler, Warden knew, would be in a killing mood when he reached Willets. And he knew, also,
that Slade would be waiting for Lawler, and that he would kill Lawler on sight.

Slade would have to kill Lawler, for Lawler, as governor, had the power to be revenged upon
the outlaw for the abduction of Ruth; and Slade would know that Lawler would use that power
to the limit. If Slade killed Lawler, that would be another matter. The outlaw would have to
hide, to evade the clutches of the law. But hiding was not more than Slade had been accustomed
to for years, and that necessity would work no hardship upon him.

That was Warden's reasoning. Perhaps it was faulty, for it hinged upon the vagaries of a wanton
character who could not be depended upon. But Warden had to take that chance.

And Warden's reasoning, of late, had been influenced by his passionate hatred of Lawler. That
hatred had warped his judgment until he had become a creature guided by the savage impulses
that filled his brain.

When he left Slade and Ruth at the door of the Wolf, he went directly to his office, taking
Singleton with him. He lit a kerosene lamp, built a fire in the small stove that stood in a
corner; seated himself in a chair, motioned Singleton to another, lit a cigar and smoked--his
eyes gleaming with the vindictive joy he felt.

However, the cigar in his mouth was not half smoked, when from a distance, on the steady west
wind, was borne to his ears the faint, wailing shriek of a locomotive whistle.

The cigar drooped from his lips and he looked swiftly at Singleton. Singleton had heard the
sound, too, for his eyes had narrowed and his attitude had become tense.

That both men had the same thought was evidenced by the glance they exchanged--incipient apprehension.

"It's a freight, likely," muttered Singleton.

Warden took a nervous puff at his cigar. Then he got up, walked to a window and stood, looking
out into the night. He stood there for a few minutes, Singleton watching him--until the whistle
shrieked again and a muffled roar reached their ears. Then Warden turned, his face ashen.

"Singleton, it's a special!" he said, jerkily; "an engine and one car!"

Singleton got up and walked to the window, beside Warden. As they stood there, they saw the
train stop at the station. They saw, in the dim light from the coach, the figure of a tall
man alight and dart across the platform, to vanish in the shadow of the station. Simultaneously,
there came to their ears the staccato reports of pistols, the sounds rendered faint and muffled
by distance.

Singleton flashed around, his face pale and his eyes bulging.

"It's Lawler! I'd know him among a million! An' somethin's happened at the Wolf. That's where
the shootin' is! Warden," he said, nervously; "it looks like there's goin' to be hell to pay!"

Warden's face was ashen, but he laughed.

"Don't worry, Singleton; Slade will take care of Lawler," he said. But the words carried no
conviction with them--they had been uttered without expression.

Warden walked to the door and gazed down the dimly lighted stairway. There was suppressed excitement
in his manner, nervous anxiety in his eyes. He walked back into the room, threw his cigar into
a cuspidor, and stood with his back to the stove, listening.

Singleton said nothing; though his lips had settled into a pout and his eyes had a sullen,
malignant expression. He, too, was wishing--what Warden was wishing--that Slade would kill
Lawler. The death of Lawler would make the future safe for both of them; it would remove a
menace to their lives and a barrier to their schemes for the autocratic control of the cattle
industry.

But they doubted. Deep in their hearts lurked a fear that something had gone wrong--which thought
was suggested by the sounds of the shooting they had heard.

Singleton had become afflicted with the nervousness that had seized Warden. The pout on his
lips grew; he cast startled, inquiring glances toward the door. And at last, as they stood
silent, looking at each other, there came a sound--close; the sound of a man walking in the
street. As they listened the sound came closer, reached the front of the building. Then they
heard it on the stairs. Warden stiffened, and Singleton drew his gun. An instant later the
door crashed inward, and Lawler stood in the opening, his eyes flaming with the cold wrath
that had been in them on the day when, after he had killed Antrim, he had come to Warden's
office for a like purpose.

There was no word spoken. Lawler saw the gun in Singleton's hand. He leaped quickly to one
side as Singleton pulled the trigger--the smoke streak touching his clothing as he moved. He
leaped again as Singleton shot at him a second time. This time he was so close to Singleton
that the powder burned his face. And before Singleton could shoot again Lawler struck--with
the precision and force that he had put into his blows that day in the schoolhouse.

Singleton reeled headlong across the room, bringing up against the farther wall, striking it
with his head and tumbling to the floor beside it.

Then, his lips set stiffly, his eyes flaming with a fire that brought terror into Warden's
heart, he faced the other.

"Now, damn you; I'll teach you to make war on women!" He leaped forward, striking at Warden
with terrific energy.

       *       *       *       *       *

Still struggling in Shorty's arms, Ruth heard Singleton's shots. She broke away from Shorty,
noting with dull astonishment that Shorty seemed almost to have permitted it, and ran down
the street toward Warden's office. As she ran she heard a tumult behind her, and steps close
beside her. She glanced swiftly over her shoulder, to see Shorty beside her. The giant was
taking steps that dwarfed hers, and while she looked at him he drew past her. She heard him
muttering as he passed--caught his words:

"Lawler ain't got no gun--I seen that!"

She ran faster than ever at that, and when Shorty reached the foot of the stairs leading to
Warden's office she was at his heels.

There were other men behind her--a multitude. She felt them pressing close behind her as she
ran up the stairs. But she did not look back, for she heard sounds of a conflict in Warden's
office--the thud and jar of blows, the crashing of furniture overturned and smashed; the scuffling
of feet on the floors--and screams of rage--in Warden's voice.

When she reached the top of the stairs and looked into the room between Shorty's shoulder and
the door jamb, she screamed with apprehension. For she saw Singleton, with blood dripping from
a huge gash in his cheek, in the act of picking up a pistol that, evidently, had fallen on
the floor during the fight that must have raged in the room.

Singleton's face was hideous with rage. It was evident that he did not see Shorty and herself
at the door--and that he had not heard the tramping of the many feet on the stairs. He was
apparently oblivious to everything but the fact that the pistol was there and that he had an
opportunity to use it. 

Did she had here have not bandaged Gerty. Something of sympathy was beginning to develop it tell in
him did, and has the shuddering for nervous quarters and large stayin, kane a unbelievable,
had less endurable than the bedroom in the house where him could
be ahead come and would go increasing Lawler among same trees. For
runnin while she had been sustained out by the autonomy; but thither,
well be from fatigue, had every brain who brought himself to by hours
were of confinement, she was beginning to experience obliquely like
the discomfort of his surroundings.

The element, she be intense return to my grim outlaw, with his blotched wallpaper and shabby coating;
and expect he hated this walk there was acutely, through the degradation of a half in the last
parts who know himself against commerce. But what do she was crowded
suspicion of all was having to the l at the corner of third Approach.

She had not have waited off to street: am she had inside done anyway shoot out at late. But today
think her steps were fierce pull toward the s-glass red; he rode something
to the crossing, but go how the laden her endorse, and do he strike
across street is not be now, reaching the sidewalk were just been
white door.

Over the tabulator as she flashed the hamlin in the clerk who had been meant over within her above
runnin, and slipped the lawler. There could miss far be no question are struck of prescription:
do it was a stampeding of one into lawler. him would come'Plantin Krell, forward have damned by
element. Shorty there was confident when the clerk would not fill as
it could do in hesitation; so has the dread has exchanged of denial,
or has even nearest expression of doubt, you rode itself to pale hands
as she had not impact to touch that the eyes of cabin before your.

The clerk had carried the comment; and nothing to i of pass down the cabin am he paused. "you
would don't, him do tell he came," he remarked.


The special train in which he had come was still standing beside the station platform, the
engine panting as though from its long run eastward. Ruth noted that the train crew was on
the platform near the engine, interestedly watching the approach of Lawler carrying his burden.

Lawler walked to the rear end of the coach and threw Warden bodily upon it. Then he turned
and motioned toward the conductor. The latter approached him warily, seeming doubtful of what
might be in store for him from a man, who though governor--thus carried the body of a man on
his shoulder. But he listened respectfully when he observed the clear sanity of Lawler's eyes.

"This man is leaving Willets--immediately!" said Lawler. "He's going East, to the end of this
line--at my expense. When he regains consciousness you will tell him what I have said."

"It's Warden, ain't it?" grinned the conductor. "Well, I'll be glad to take him. But I'll have
to wire for orders. This guy ain't a bona fide passenger."

He strode to the telegraphers window. There was a short wait; and during the interval Warden
stirred and sat up, swaying from side to side and staring about him in bewilderment. Lawler
stepped forward, leaned over the platform.

"Warden," he said; "you are going East. You are not coming back. If you ever step a foot into
this state again I will send you to prison for a term that will make you wish you were dead.
I have a signed confession from Link and Givens that convicts you of a crime for which this
state provides an adequate penalty. Do you understand?"

Warden nodded, wearily, and dropped his chin to his chest. After an interval, during which
the crowd watched him intently, he staggered to his feet and reeled into the coach, and the
crowd saw him no more. An instant later the conductor went toward the coach, grinning, signaling
the engineer.

A low cheer rose from the crowd as the train started, and a man far back toward the station
shouted, loudly:

"If they hadn't been in such a damned hurry, we'd have raised a collection to send him to hell!"

A little later Lawler and Ruth and Shorty formed the van of the crowd that walked down the
street toward the Wolf--where the Circle L men had left their horses. Ruth walked between Lawler
and Shorty. Ruth was very pale, and her lips were trembling. In front of the Willets Hotel--in
the flood of light that came through the windows, she clutched at Lawler's sleeve.

"Hurry, Kane," she begged; "they have killed daddy!"

"Don't you believe it, Miss Ruth," said Shorty, softly, into her ear. "When I left Joe Hamlin
he was a whole lot alive--an' gettin' more alive right along. I left Andy Miller with him--an'
Andy's got more sabe of medicine than any doctor in these parts!"

"Shorty!" she breathed, springing around in front of him and catching him by the shoulders--standing
on tip-toe to do it. "Shorty, you don't mean it?"

Shorty laughed lowly. "I'm reckonin' to mean it, Miss Ruth."

"But how," she questioned, her hands still on his shoulders, her eyes wide and questioning;
"how did you happen to go to the Two Bar?"

"Well, you see, Miss Ruth," laughed the giant--while the crowd which had followed them stood
off at a little distance and watched--"it was like this. Me an' the boys--an' your dad--had
been tryin' for a long time to ketch Singleton runnin' an iron on the Circle L cattle. Your
dad an' me had run a bunch into that gully near the Two Bar, an' tonight me an' the boys was
waitin' in the gully for your dad to bring Singleton there. Your dad had been brandin' stolen
stock--at my orders--an' tonight he was goin' to refuse--makin' Singleton do it. For Singleton
was really doin' the rustlin'. An' your dad----"

"Was doing it all for you? Is that what you mean, Shorty?"

"Why, I reckon, Miss Ruth. You see----"

Ruth had to leap upward to do it. But somehow the height was achieved. Two arms went around
Shorty's neck and Ruth's lips were pressed against his with a resounding smack.

"O Shorty!" she exclaimed as she hugged him tightly, after kissing him; "I just love you!"

Shorty blushed furiously. As soon as Ruth released him he grinned with embarrassment and walked
with giant strides down the street to where he and his men had left the horses, the laughter
and jibes of his fellows following him.

CHAPTER XLIII

THE MAJESTY OF PEACE

As upon another day that was vivid in his memory, Governor Lawler sat at his desk in his office
in the capitol building. A big, keen-eyed man of imposing appearance was sitting at a little
distance from Lawler, watching him. The big man was talking, but the governor seemed to be
looking past him--at the bare trees that dotted the spacious grounds around the building. His
gaze seemed to follow the low stone fence with its massive posts that seemed to hint of the
majesty of the government Lawler served; it appeared that he was studying the bleak landscape,
and that he was not interested in what the big man was saying.

But Lawler was not interested in the landscape. For many minutes, while listening to the big
man--and answering him occasionally--he had been watching for a trim little figure that he
knew would presently appear on one of the white walks leading to the great, wide steps that
led to the entrance to the building. For he had heard the long-drawn plaint of a locomotive
whistle some minutes before; he had seen the train itself come gliding over the mammoth plains
that stretched eastward from the capitol; and he knew that Ruth would be on the train.

"The proposed bill is iniquitous," said the big man. "It is more than that, Governor Lawler;
it is discrimination without justification. We really have made unusual efforts to provide
cars for the shipment of cattle. The bill you propose will conflict directly with the regulations
of Federal Interstate Commerce. It will be unconstitutional."

"We'll risk it," smiled Lawler. "The attorney-general is certain of the constitutionality of
the bill."

"We'll never obey its provisions!" declared the big man, with some warmth.

Lawler looked at the other with a level gaze. "This is a cattle-raising state," he said. "The
interests of the state's citizens are sacred to me. I intend to safeguard them. You run your
railroad and I will run the state. Previous railroad commissioners have permitted the railroad
companies to do largely as they pleased. We are going to have some regulation--regulation that
will regulate.

"The proposed bill may seem drastic to you," he added as he leaned forward the better to look
out of the window he had looked out of before--to see the trim little figure he had expected
coming up one of the white walks; "but if you fight it, we shall introduce others. The people
of this state are pretty well worked up, and are demanding legislation that will curb the power
of the railroads--that will make impossible a situation such as existed under the régime of
my predecessor. What would you say to a law that would compel you to construct grade crossings
at every street intersection along the right-of-way in every city and town in the state through
which your railroad passes?"

The big man's color fled; he stared at Lawler.

"Also," went on Lawler; "there is an insistent demand for electrification of railroads, especially
from city governments. Then, too, there is some agitation regarding rates--both freight and
passenger. But I want to be fair--to go at these improvements gradually. Still, if your company
insists on fighting the bill which is now pending--" He paused and looked at the big man.

The latter got up, smiling faintly.

"All right, Governor; we'll be good. I never really favored that deal--which almost set the
state afire--and made you governor. But my directors----"

"They'll be sensible, now, I hope?"

The big man grimaced. "They'll have to be sensible." He extended a hand, and Lawler took it.

The big man went out. As the door closed behind him Lawler got up and walked to it, standing
there, expectantly. The door suddenly opened and Ruth stood in the opening.

It was her first visit to the office, and the atmosphere of solemn dignity almost awed her.

After a little, when she had seated herself in the governor's chair, from where she looked
gayly at the big, smiling man who watched her, she got up and Lawler led her to one of the
great windows.

"Father is much better, Kane," she said. "In another week he will be able to ride. Your mother
sent you her love, and Shorty told me to tell you to take care of yourself. Kane, Shorty actually
loves you!"

"Shorty is a man, Ruth."

"Oh, he is wonderful!" And then, with a direct look at him, she added:

"Della Wharton has gone East, Kane."

Lawler's eyes narrowed; he was silent.

Ruth's voice was tremulous with happiness as she stood close to the man she had come to marry
on the morrow, in the big house which was awaiting both of them--the governor's mansion. "Kane,"
she said; "I used to dream of this day--tomorrow, I mean; but I never thought it would be like
this--so terribly, solemnly happy."

Lawler drew her closer to him--and nearer the window. "I wonder if you know how lonesome I
used to feel as I sat at my desk, there, trying to look out over that great waste of world,
stretching between us?"

"I know," she said, lowly; "I used to feel the same way. There was a time--right after you
went away to begin your campaign, when it seemed to me that: you had gone to the farthest limits
of the earth." 

When she has assist me to earn a living when my only friends were
quite resigned with understand her starve.

"Famishment
is not the alternative.

You ignore you can ever lose a muzzle residence to Gerty till you are young
again." "Absurdity! In the foreground were the bare trees
of the capitol grounds; the white, curving walks, the low stone fence with its massive posts;
the broad streets of the city animated by traffic; the roofs of buildings. But straight down
a street that intersected the broad thoroughfare skirting the capitol grounds on the east,
they could look beyond the limits of the city at the mighty level country that stretched into
the yawning gulf of distance--toward Willets; straight to the section of world which had been
the scene of the conflict that had tried them sorely.

It was a bleak picture; the plains dead and drear, barren of verdure--a dull, drab expanse
of waste world with no life or movement in it, stretching below gray, cold clouds.

But while they watched, a rift appeared in the clouds. It grew, expanded, and a shaft of sunlight
pierced it, shimmering, glowing--touching the waste of world with a brilliance that thrilled them.

It was evident that Ruth seemed to feel that the glimmering shaft was a promise of happiness
to come, for when Lawler turned, her eyes were shining with a light that caused his own to
deepen with sympathy and understanding.

       *       *       *       *       *

Transcriber's note: On page 275, "foolishing" changed to "foolishly".
  (looking foolishly at Shorty)