What more shall I say hereof? When the feast was ended, and all the nobles departed, and all
had taken leave, then was it in the mind of Sir Gawain, Sir Lancelot, and Sir Perceval to betake
them straightway to King Arthur's court, for 'twas nigh to Pentecost, and the king (thus do
I read the tale) would hold high court (greater was never held) on behalf of Galahad, Sir Lancelot's
son, for that this hero should then come to court, and receive the honour of knighthood. And
thereof did the tale wax great; how that he should achieve the quest of the Grail, and all
the adventures, small and great, which appertained to the Round Table, for 'twas said that
he should sit in the Perilous Seat, wherein durst never man sit. To behold these marvels would
many a man come to court, for the king had bidden all the great folk of the land thither, and
many a knight of praise had obeyed his command.

And for this cause would not Sir Lancelot and Sir Gawain and Sir Perceval remain afar, but
took their leave of Sir Agloval and of Morien and of his mother, and rode on their way till
they came to King Arthur at Camelot, where he abode, as it pleased him well to do when he would
fain be at peace. And when the king heard of the coming of these three knights, then was he
right joyful at that time; and when he learnt concerning Sir Agloval, how his wedding feast
had been held, and of the valiant deeds that Morien had done in his own land, then were king
and queen alike glad at heart.

Here will I leave this tale and speak further concerning the Grail, and the winning thereof.
That shall ye find set forth in the book that followeth hereafter; the other part, that which
concerneth Lancelot, here cometh to an end. Now do I pray God in words straitly, that He have
mercy upon me when my life shall come to an end, and bring my soul to His heavenly kingdom.
May He grant this my prayer!

AMEN. NOTES

1. INTRODUCTION.--In the preface I have dwelt with some fulness on the interesting questions
connected with these opening lines; here it will be sufficient to point out that in the earlier
versions of the Perceval story the hero is either the only, or the sole surviving, son of his
parents. The introduction of a brother, as a definite character, belongs to the later stages
of Arthurian tradition. The brothers vary in number and name, but the most noted are Sir Agloval
and Sir Lamorak, who appear to belong to distinct lines of development, Sir Agloval belonging
mainly to the Lancelot, Sir Lamorak to the Tristan tradition. So far I have not met with the
latter in any version of the prose Lancelot, though Dr. Sommer in his Studies on the Sources
of Malory, refers to him as mentioned in that romance; in the Tristan, on the contrary, he
is a leading figure. The Morien story, as I have remarked in the preface, has obviously been
modified by the influence of the later Lancelot legend, hence, probably, the role assigned
to Agloval.

2. PAGE 20.--Gawain as physician. The representation of Gawain as an expert in medical skill
is an interesting feature which appears to belong to early tradition. The references in the
poem before us are the most copious and explicit, but we also find the same accomplishment
referred to in the romance of Lancelot et le cerf au pied blanc (D. L. vol. ii. 1. 22825) where
Gawain instructs the physician as to the proper treatment of Lancelot's wounds; and the Parzival
of Wolfram von Eschenbach (Book X. 1. 104) also refers to this tradition. It is noticeable
that Chretien de Troyes in the parallel passage of his poem has no such allusion, nor can I
recall any passage in the works of that poet which indicates any knowledge, on his part, of
this characteristic of Gawain. This is one of the points of variance between Chretien and Wolfram
which, slight in itself, offers when examined valuable evidence as to a difference of sources.

3. PAGE 24.--The boast of Sir Kay. Arthur's reproof to Kay is a reference to the well-known
adventure related both by Chretien and Wolfram and found moreover in the Peredur. The hero,
thrown into a love-trance by the sight of blood-drops on the snow, gives no answer to the challenge
addressed to him successively by Segramore and Kay, and being rudely attacked by these knights
overthrows them both. The allusion to this incident, which is not related in the prose Lancelot,
shows clearly that while, on the whole, he is harmonising his romance with the indications
of the later traditions, the writer is yet quite conversant with the earlier forms.

4. PAGE 26.--The Father of Adventure. "Der Aventuren Fader." The Middle English poem of Sir
Gawain and the Green Knight (No. 1 of this Series) speaks of the knight in somewhat similar
terms as "the fine father of courtesy." Gawain was from the first the adventurous hero, par
excellence of the cycle, but I know no other instance in which this characteristic is so quaintly
and forcibly expressed.

5. PAGE 28.--In secret case. The original words are "in hemeliker stede." To which particular
adventure of Lancelot this refers it is not easy to decide; on more than one occasion he disappears
from court, and the knights headed by Gawain, ride in quest of him. Perhaps this refers to
his imprisonment by Morgain le Fay (cf. summary of D.L. in Legend of Sir Lancelot du Lac. Grimm's
Library XII. pp. 236-7).

6. PAGE 35.--Sir Agloval, he is my father. This should be compared with the account of Gamuret's
wooing and desertion of the Moorish queen, Belakane, in Book I. of the Parzival; also with
the meeting of the unknown brothers in Book XV. of the same poem. It is perhaps worth noticing
as indicative of the source of the tradition that Wolfram distinctly states that his Moor speaks
in French.

7. PAGE 67,--The slain and the slayer. The belief that the blood of a corpse would flow afresh,
did the murderer approach it, was very prevalent in the middle ages. In Chretien de Troyes'
Chevalier au lion (ll. 1177 et seq.) we find a similar situation, complicated by the fact that
Yvain (the slayer) protected by a magic ring is invisible to the bystanders. The best known
instance, however, is probably that of the Nibelungenlied where Kriemhild's suspicions that
Hagen is Siegfred's murderer are in this manner verified.

8. PAGE 91.--I have no call to flee, nor to fear death. This is evidently the hermit whom Lancelot
in the Queste finds dead under circumstances agreeing with those here hinted at. The story
will be found in Malory Book XV.

9. PAGE 102.--That cometh altogether from his sin against his mother. The reason here alleged
for Perceval's failure to find the Grail is that given by Chretien and Wolfram, and is another
indication of the writer's familiarity with the early Perceval story.

10. PAGE 116.--Sir Agloval's explanation, (a) The Lancelot quest. The special quest here referred
to is that undertaken in search of Lancelot when he fled from court in a frenzy, induced by
Guinevere's jealousy of King Pelles' daughter. During this quest Agloval visits his mother,
sees Perceval, and brings him to court (cf. Legend of Sir Lancelot pp. 161-2).

(b) The lost heritage. The fact that Perceval regains possession of the heritage of which he
has, before his birth, been deprived is recorded in certain of the Perceval romances; the Parzival
of Wolfram von Eschenbach, the prose Perceval li Gallois, and the English Sir Percyvelle of
Galles, but it is not found in Chretien. It is clear, to a close observer, that the compiler
of the Dutch Lancelot knew the early Perceval tradition in a form closer to the version of
the German, than that of the French poet. Later on, in the Queste section, he introduces a
reference to this inheritance, where none exists in the French versions I have examined (cf.
Legend of Sir Lancelot p. 174).

11. PAGE 127.--Lancelot's adventure with the beast. This is a condensed account of the well
known story of The Fahe Claimant. Two versions of this story have already been given in this
series, the dragon adventure in Tristan (No. II) and that of the stag in Tyolet (No. III.);
this is inferior to either, but appears to combine characteristics of both. I have discussed
it fully in Chapter III. of the Lancelot studies, before referred to, and have there compared
it with the similar adventure also attributed to that knight in the Dutch compilation.

12. PAGE 128.--Had it not been for a ring which Lancelot wore. This is evidently the ring given
him by the Lady of the Lake, and referred to in The Charrette (ll. 2348 et seq). It had the
power of detecting enchantments.

13. PAGE 142.--King Arthur--held captive the king, who had erst made him a prisoner. There
seems to be a confusion here; from Gariet's account it was the King of the Saxons who captured
Arthur; here he has disappeared and everything is attributed to the King of Ireland. Probably
they were allies; but it is also possible that confusion may have arisen from the fact that
the King of Dublin was at one time, as in the Tristan legend, a Viking, and the poet has not
distinguished clearly between the nationalities of these sea-robbers. If so, it would seem
to indicate an early date for this particular story.