Third. It is to be called a fearful Word, because of the truth and faithfulness of it. The
Scriptures cannot be broken. Here they are called the Scriptures of truth, the true sayings
of God, and also the fear of the Lord, for that every jot and tittle thereof is for ever settled
in heaven, and stand more steadfast than doth the world--"Heaven and earth," saith Christ,
"shall pass away, but my words shall not pass away" (Matt 24:35). Those, therefore, that are
favoured by the Word of God, those are favoured indeed, and that with the favour that no man
can turn away; but those that by the word of the Scriptures are condemned, those can no man
justify and set quit in the sight of God. Therefore what is bound by the text, is bound, and
what is released by the text, is released; also the bond and release is unalterable (Dan 10:21;
Rev 19:9; Matt 24:35; Psa 119:89; John 10:35). This, therefore, calleth upon God's people to
stand more in fear of the Word of God than of all the terrors of the world.[7] There wanteth
even in the hearts of God's people a greater reverence of the Word of God than to this day
appeareth among us, and this let me say, that want of reverence of the Word is the ground of
all disorders that are in the heart, life, conversation, and in Christian communion. Besides,
the want of reverence of the Word layeth men open to the fearful displeasure of God--"Whoso
despiseth the word shall be destroyed; but he that feareth the commandment shall be rewarded"
(Prov 13:13). Therefore Solomon saith, "My son, attend to my words; incline thine ear unto
my sayings; let them not depart from thine eyes; keep them in the midst of thine heart; for
they are life unto those that find them, and health to all their flesh" (Prov 4:20-22). Now,
if indeed thou wouldest reverence the Word of the Lord, and make it thy rule and director in
all things, believe that the Word is the fear of the Lord, the Word that standeth fast for
ever; without and against which God will do nothing, either in saving or damning of the souls
of sinners. But to conclude this,

1. Know that those that have no due regard to the Word of the Lord, and that make it not their
dread and their fear, but the rule of their life is the lust of their flesh, the desire of
their eyes, and the pride of life, are sorely rebuked by this doctrine, and are counted the
fools of the world; for "lo, they have rejected the word of the Lord, and what wisdom is in
them?" (Jer 8:9). That there are such a people is evident, not only by their irregular lives,
but by the manifest testimony of the Word. Was this only the temper of wicked men then? Is
not the same spirit of rebellion amongst us in our days? Doubtless there is; for there is no
new thing--"The thing that hath been, it is that which shall be, and that which is done is
that which shall be done; and there is no new thing under the sun" (Eccl 1:9). Therefore, as
it was then, so it is with many in this day.

As for the Word of the Lord, it is nothing at all to them; their lusts, and whatsoever proceedeth
out of their own mouths, that they will do, that they will follow. Now, such will certainly
perish in their own rebellion; for this is as the sin of witchcraft; it was the sin of Korah
and his company, and that which brought upon them such heavy judgments; yea, and they are made
a sign that thou shouldest not do as they, for they perished (because they rejected the word,
the fear of the Lord) from among the congregation of the Lord, "and they became a sign." The
word which thou despisest still abideth to denounce its woe and judgment upon thee; and unless
God will save such with the breath of his word--and it is hard trusting to that--they must
never see his face with comfort (1 Sam 15:22,23; Num 26:9,10).

2. Are the words of God called by the name of the fear of the Lord? Are they so dreadful in
their receipt and sentence? Then this rebukes them that esteem the words and things of men
more than the words of God, as those do who are drawn from their respect of, and obedience
to, the Word of God, by the pleasures or threats of men. Some there be who verily will acknowledge
the authority of the Word, yet will not stoop their souls thereto. Such, whatever they think
of themselves, are judged by Christ to be ashamed of the Word; wherefore their state is damnable
as the other. (Mark 8:38).

3. And if these things be so, what will become of those that mock at, and professedly contemn,
the words of God, making them as a thing ridiculous, and not to be regarded? Shall they prosper
that do such things? From the promises it is concluded that their judgment now of a long time
slumbereth not, and when it comes, it will devour them without remedy (2 Chron 36:15). If God,
I say, hath put that reverence upon his Word as to call it the fear of the Lord, what will
become of them that do what they can to overthrow its authority, by denying it to be his Word,
and by raising cavils against its authority? Such stumble, indeed, at the Word, being appointed
thereunto, but it shall judge them in the last day (1 Peter 2:8; John 12:48). But thus much
for this.

OF SEVERAL SORTS OF FEAR OF GOD IN THE HEART OF THE CHILDREN OF MEN.

Having thus spoken of the object and rule of our fear, I should come now to speak of fear as
it is a grace of the Spirit of God in the hearts of his people; but before I do that, I shall
show you that there are divers sorts of fear besides. For man being a reasonable creature,
and having even by nature a certain knowledge of God, hath also naturally something of some
kind of fear of God at times, which, although it be not that which is intended in the text,
yet ought to be spoken to, that that which is not right may be distinguished from that that is.

There is, I say, several sorts or kinds of fear in the hearts of the sons of men, I mean besides
that fear of God that is intended in the text, and that accompanieth eternal life. I shall
here make mention of three of them. FIRST. There is a fear of God that flows even from the
light of nature. SECOND. There is a fear of God that flows from some of his dispensations to
men, which yet is neither universal nor saving. THIRD. There is a fear of God in the heart
of some men that is good and godly, but doth not for ever abide so. To speak a little to all
these, before I come to speak of fear, as it is a grace of God in the hearts of his children, And,

FIRST. To the first, to wit, that there is a fear of God that flows even from the light of
nature. A people may be said to do things in a fear of God, when they act one towards another
in things reasonable, and honest betwixt man and man, not doing that to others they would not
have done to themselves. This is that fear of God which Abraham thought the Philistines had
destroyed in themselves, when he said of his wife to Abimelech, "She is my sister." For when
Abimelech asked Abraham why he said of his wife, She is my sister; he replied, saying, "I thought
surely the fear of God is not in this place, and they will slay me for my wife's sake" (Gen
20:11). I thought verily that in this place men had stifled and choked that light of nature
that is in them, at least so far forth as not to suffer it to put them in fear, when their
lusts were powerful in them to accomplish their ends on the object that was present before
them. But this I will pass by, and come to the second thing, namely--

SECOND. I shall describe it by these several particulars that follow--

First. There is a fear of God that causeth a continual grudging, discontent, and heart-risings
against God under the hand of God; and that is, when the dread of God in his coming upon men,
to deal with them for their sins, is apprehended by them, and yet by this dispensation they
have no change of heart to submit to God thereunder. The sinners under this dispensation cannot
shake God out of their mind, nor yet graciously tremble before him; but through the unsanctified
frame that they now are in, they are afraid with ungodly fear, and so in their minds let fly
against him. This fear oftentimes took hold of the children of Israel when they were in the
wilderness in their journey to the promised land; still they feared that God in this place
would destroy them, but not with that fear that made them willing to submit, for their sins,
to the judgment which they fear, but with that fear that made them let fly against God. This
fear showed itself in them, even at the beginning of their voyage, and was rebuked by Moses
at the Red Sea, but it was not there, nor yet at any other place, so subdued, but that it would
rise again in them at times to the dishonour of God, and the anew making of them guilty of
sin before him (Exo 14:11-13; Num 14:1-9). This fear is that which God said he would send before
them, in the day of Joshua, even a fear that should possess the inhabitants of the land, to
wit, a fear that should arise for that faintness of heart that they should be swallowed up
of, at their apprehending of Joshua in his approaches towards them to destroy them. (Exo 23:27).
"This day," says God, "will I begin to put the dread of thee, and the fear of thee upon the
nations that are under the whole heaven who shall hear report of thee, and shall tremble, and
be in anguish because of thee" (Deut 2:25, 11:25).

Now this fear is also, as you here see, called anguish, and in another place, an hornet; for
it, and the soul that it falls upon, do greet each other, as boys and bees do. The hornet puts
men in fear, not so as to bring the heart into a sweet compliance with his terror, but so as
to stir up the spirit into acts of opposition and resistance, yet withal they flee before it.
"I will send hornets before thee, which shall drive out the Hivite," &c. (Exo 23:28). Now this
fear, whether it be wrought by misapprehending of the judgments of God, as in the Israelites,
or otherwise as in the Canaanites, yet ungodliness is the effect thereof, and therefore I call
it an ungodly fear of God, for it stirreth up murmurings, discontents, and heart-risings against
God, while he with his dispensations is dealing with them.

Second. There is a fear of God that driveth a man away from God--I speak not now of the atheist,
nor of the pleasurable sinner, nor yet of these, and that fear that I spoke of just now--I
speak now of such who through a sense of sin and of God's justice fly from him of a slavish
ungodly fear. For then was he possessed with such a fear of God as made him seek to hide himself
from his presence. "I heard," said he, "thy voice in the garden, and I was afraid, because
I was naked; and I hid myself" (Gen 3:10). Mind it, he had a fear of God, but it was not godly.
It was not that that made him afterwards submit himself unto him; for that would have kept
him from not departing from him, or else have brought him to him again, with bowed, broken,
and contrite spirit. But this fear, as the rest of his sin, managed his departing from his
God, and pursued him to provoke him still so to do; by it he kept himself from God, by it his
whole man was carried away from him. I call it ungodly fear, because it begat in him ungodly
apprehensions of his Maker; because it confined Adam's conscience to the sense of justice only,
and consequently to despair.

The same fear also possessed the children of Israel when they heard the law delivered to them
on Mount Sinai; as is evident, for it made them that they could neither abide his presence
nor hear his word. It drove them back from the mountain. It made them, saith the apostle to
the Hebrews, that "they could not endure that which was commanded" (Heb 12:20). Wherefore this
fear Moses rebukes, and forbids their giving way thereto. "Fear not," said he; but had that
fear been godly, he would have encouraged it, and not forbid and rebuke it as he did. "Fear
not," said he, "for God is come to prove you"; they thought otherwise. "God," saith he, "is
come to prove you, and that his fear may be before your faces." Therefore that fear that already
had taken possession of them, was not the fear of God, but a fear that was of Satan, of their
own misjudging hearts, and so a fear that was ungodly (Exo 20:18-20). Mark you, here is a fear
and a fear, a fear forbidden, and a fear commended; a fear forbidden, because it engendered
their hearts to bondage, and to ungodly thoughts of God and of his word; it made them that
they could not desire to hear God speak to them any more (vv 19-21).

Many also at this day are possessed with this ungodly fear; and you may know them by this,--they
cannot abide conviction for sin, and if at any time the word of the law, by the preaching of
the word, comes near them, they will not abide that preacher, nor such kind of sermons any
more. They are, as they deem, best at ease, when furthest off of God, and of the power of his
word. The word preached brings God nearer to them than they desire he should come, because
whenever God comes near, their sins by him are manifest, and so is the judgment too that to
them is due. Wherefore their wrong thoughts of God beget in them this ungodly fear; and again,
this ungodly fear doth maintain in them the continuance of these wrong and unworthy thoughts
of God, and therefore, through that devilish service wherewith they strengthen one another,
the sinner, without a miracle of grace prevents him, is drowned in destruction and perdition.

It was this ungodly fear of God that carried Cain from the presence of God into the land of
Nod, and that put him there upon any carnal worldly business, if perhaps he might by so doing
stifle convictions of the majesty and justice of God against his sin, and so live the rest
of his vain life in the more sinful security and fleshly ease. This ungodly fear is that also
which Samuel perceived at the people's apprehension of their sin, to begin to get hold of their
hearts; wherefore he, as Moses before him, quickly forbids their entertaining of it. "Fear
not," said he, "ye have done all this wickedness, yet turn not aside from following the Lord."
For to turn them aside from following of him, was the natural tendency of this fear. "But fear
not," said he, that is, with that fear that tendeth to turn you aside. Now, I say, the matter
that this fear worketh upon, as in Adam, and the Israelites mentioned before, was their sin.
You have sinned, says he, that is true, yet turn not aside, yet fear not with that fear that
would make you so do (1 Sam 12:20). Note by the way, sinner, that when the greatness of thy
sins, being apprehended by thee, shall work in thee that fear of God, as shall incline thy
heart to fly from him, thou art possessed with a fear of God that is ungodly, yea, so ungodly,
that not any of thy sins for heinousness may be compared therewith, as might be made manifest
in many particulars, but Samuel having rebuked this fear, presently sets before the people
another, to wit, the true fear of God; "fear the Lord," says he, "serve him--with all your
heart" (v 24). And he giveth them this encouragement so to do, "for the Lord will not forsake
his people." This ungodly fear is that which you read of in Isaiah 2, and in many other places,
and God's people should shun it, as they would shun the devil, because its natural tendency
is to forward the destruction of the soul in which it has taken possession.[8]

Third. The murder of Hyptia, the female philosopher, by a Christian mob at Alexandria was due
to Gibbon, who was very happy for it. Gibbon, however, pretends as if he does not know anything
about the murder, which is quite amusing. People cut her throat with an oyster-shell but, Gibbon says
that although people had oyster-shells in their hands, but she was not hit with those shells
till after she died. He adds that the use of shells prove that the whole murder was not preplanned.
Hyptia was given the title "modest" by Gibbon who says that she is not worth giving that title.

While having a look at the Parliamentary Report on Libraries, I didn't come across any reference
to a valuable library, "Dr. Thomlinson's", in Newcastle-on-Tyne. It has a beautiful building
near St. Nicholas Church which was erected in the beginning of the last century. A catalogue of
the same has been published. I also came across a library attached to Wimborne Minster few years
back. This library had a collection of amusing books.
However, one of the most valuable English libraries on the continent
of Europe is the Garrison Library at Gibraltar. 
W.C.T 
Edinburg,
March 30, 1850. Why, he takes his talent, the gift
that he was to lay out for his master's profit, and puts it in a napkin, digs a hole in the
earth, and hides his lord's money, and lies in a lazy manner at to-elbow all his days, not
out of, but in his lord's vineyard;[9] for he came among the servants also at last. By which
it is manifest that he had not cast off his profession, but was slothful and negligent while
he was in it. But what was it that made him thus slothful? What was it that took away his heart,
while he was in the way, and that discouraged him from falling in with the power and holy practice
of religion according to the talent he received? Why, it was this, he gave way to an ungodly
fear of God, and that took away his heart from the power of religious duties. "Lord," said
he, "behold, here is thy pound, which I have kept, laid up in a napkin, for I feared thee."
Why, man, doth the fear of God make a man idle and slothful? No, no; that is, if it be right
and godly. This fear was therefore evil fear; it was that ungodly fear of God which I have
here been speaking of. For I feared thee, or as Matthew hath it, "for I was afraid." Afraid
of what? Of Christ, "that he was an hard man, reaping where he sowed not, and gathering where
he had not strawed." This his fear, being ungodly, made him apprehend of Christ contrary to
the goodness of his nature, and so took away his heart from all endeavours to be doing of that
which was pleasing in his sight (Luke 19:20; Matt 25:24, 25). And thus do all those that retain
the name and show of religion, but are neglecters as to the power and godly practice of it.
These will live like dogs and swine in the house; they pray not, they watch not their hearts,
they pull not their hands out of their bosoms to work, they do not strive against their lusts,
nor will they ever resist unto blood, striving against sin; they cannot take up their cross,
or improve what they have to God's glory. Let all men therefore take heed of this ungodly fear,
and shun it as they shun the devil, for it will make them afraid where no fear is. It will
tell them that there is a lion in the street, the unlikeliest place in the world for such a
beast to be in; it will put a vizard upon the face of God, most dreadful and fearful to behold,
and then quite discourage the soul as to his service; so it served the slothful servant, and
so it will serve thee, poor sinner, if thou entertainest it, and givest way thereto. But,

Fourth. This ungodly fear of God shows itself also in this. It will not suffer the soul that
is governed thereby to trust only to Christ for justification of life, but will bend the powers
of the soul to trust partly to the works of the law. Many of the Jews were, in the time of
Christ and his apostles, possessed with this ungodly fear of God, for they were not as the
former, to wit, as the slothful servant, to receive a talent and hide it in the earth in a
napkin, but they were an industrious people, they followed after the law of righteousness,
they had a zeal of God and of the religion of their fathers; but how then did they come to
miscarry? Why, their fear of God was ungodly; it would not suffer them wholly to trust to the
righteousness of faith, which is the imputed righteousness of Christ. They followed after the
law of righteousness, but attained not to the law of righteousness. Wherefore? because they
sought it not by faith, but as it were by the works of the law. But what was it that made them
join their works of the law with Christ, but their unbelief, whose foundation was ignorance
and fear? They were afraid to venture all in one bottom, they thought two strings to one bow
would be best, and thus betwixt two stools they came to the ground. And hence, to fear and
to doubt, are put together as being the cause one of another; yea, they are put ofttimes the
one for the other; thus ungodly fear for unbelief: "Be not afraid, only believe," and therefore
he that is overruled and carried away with this fear, is coupled with the unbeliever that is
thrust out from the holy city among the dogs. But the fearful and unbelievers, and murderers
are without (Rev 21:8). "The fearful and unbelieving," you see, are put together; for indeed
fear, that is, this ungodly fear, is the ground of unbelief, or, if you will, unbelief is the
ground of fear, this fear: but I stand not upon nice distinctions. This ungodly fear hath a
great hand in keeping of the soul from trusting only to Christ's righteousness for justification
of life.

Fifth. This ungodly fear of God is that which will put men upon adding to the revealed will
of God their own inventions, and their own performances of them, as a means to pacify the anger
of God. For the truth is, where this ungodly fear reigneth, there is no end of law and duty.
When those that you read of in the book of Kings were destroyed by the lions, because they
had set up idolatry in the land of Israel, they sent for a priest from Babylon that might teach
them the manner of the God of the land; but behold when they knew it, being taught it by the
priest, yet their fear would not suffer them to be content with that worship only. "They feared
the Lord," saith the text, "and served their own gods." And again, "So these nations feared
the Lord, and served their graven images" (2 Kings 17). It was this fear also that put the
Pharisees upon inventing so many traditions, as the washing of cups, and beds, and tables,
and basins, with abundance of such other like gear,[10] none knows the many dangers that an
ungodly fear of God will drive a man into (Mark 7). How has it racked and tortured the Papists
for hundreds of years together! for what else is the cause but this ungodly fear, at least
in the most simple and harmless of them, of their penances, as creeping to the cross, going
barefoot on pilgrimage, whipping themselves, wearing of sackcloth, saying so many Pater-nosters,
so many Ave-marias, making so many confessions to the priest, giving so much money for pardons,
and abundance of other the like, but this ungodly fear of God? For could they be brought to
believe this doctrine, that Christ was delivered for our offences, and raised again for our
justification, and to apply it by faith with godly boldness to their own souls, this fear would
vanish, and so consequently all those things with which they so needlessly and unprofitably
afflicted themselves, offend God, and grieve his people. Therefore, gentle reader, although
my text doth bid that indeed thou shouldest fear God, yet it includeth not, nor accepteth of
any fear; no, not of any [or every] fear of God. For there is, as you see, a fear of God that
is ungodly, and that is to be shunned as their sin. Wherefore thy wisdom and thy care should
be, to see and prove thy fear to be godly, which shall be the next thing that I shall take in hand.

THIRD. Or you may take it thus--There is a fear of God that is godly but for a time. In my
speaking to, and opening of this to you, I shall observe this method. First. I shall show you
what this fear is. Second. I shall show you by whom or what this fear is wrought in the heart.
Third. I shall show you what this fear doth in the soul. And, Fourth, I shall show you when
this fear is to have an end.

First. For the first, this fear is an effect of sound awakenings by the word of wrath which
begetteth in the soul a sense of its right to eternal damnation; for this fear is not in every
sinner; he that is blinded by the devil, and that is not able to see that his state is damnable,
he hath not this fear in his heart, but he that is under the powerful workings of the word
of wrath, as God's elect are at first conversion, he hath this godly fear in his heart; that
is, he fears that that damnation will come upon him, which by the justice of God is due unto
him, because he hath broken his holy law. This is the fear that made the three thousand cry
out, "Men and brethren, what shall we do?" and that made the jailer cry out, and that with
great trembling of soul, "Sirs, what must I do to be saved?" (Acts 2, 16). The method of God
is to kill and make alive, to smite and then heal; when the commandment came to Paul, sin revived,
and he died, and that law which was ordained to life, he found to be unto death; that is, it
passed a sentence of death upon him for his sins, and slew his conscience with that sentence.
Therefore from that time that he heard that word, "Why persecutest thou me?" which is all one
as if he had said, Why dost thou commit murder? he lay under the sentence of condemnation by
the law, and under this fear of that sentence in his conscience. He lay, I say, under it, until
that Ananias came to him to comfort him, and to preach unto him the forgiveness of sin (Acts
9). The fear therefore that now I call godly, it is that fear which is properly called the
fear of eternal damnation for sin, and this fear, at first awakening, is good and godly, because
it ariseth in the soul from a true sense of its very state. Its state by nature is damnable,
because it is sinful, and because he is not one that as yet believeth in Christ for remission
of sins: "He that believeth not shall be damned."--"He that believeth not is condemned already,
and the wrath of God abideth on him" (Mark 16:16; John 3:18,36). The which when the sinner
at first begins to see, he justly fears it; I say, he fears it justly, and therefore godly,
because by this fear he subscribes to the sentence that is gone out against him for sin.

Second. By whom or by what is this fear wrought in the heart? To this I shall answer in brief.
It is wrought in the heart by the Spirit of God, working there at first as a spirit of bondage,
on purpose to put us in fear. This Paul insinuateth, saying, "Ye have not received the spirit
of bondage again to fear" (Rom 8:15). He doth not say, Ye have not received the spirit of bondage;
for that they had received, and that to put them in fear, which was at their first conversion,
as by the instances made mention of before is manifest; all that he says is, that they had
not received it again, that is, after the Spirit, as a spirit of adoption, is come; for then,
as a spirit of bondage, it cometh no more. It is then the Spirit of God, even the Holy Ghost,
that convinceth us of sin, and so of our damnable state because of sin (John 16:8,9). For it
cannot be that the Spirit of God should convince us of sin, but it must also show us our state
to be damnable because of it, especially if it so convinceth us, before we believe, and that
is the intent of our Lord in that place, "of sin," and so of their damnable state by sin, because
they believe not on me. Therefore the Spirit of God, when he worketh in the heart as a spirit
of bondage, he doth it by working in us by the law, "for by the law is the knowledge of sin"
(Rom 3:20). And he, in this his working, is properly called a spirit of bondage.

1. Because by the law he shows us that indeed we are in bondage to the law, the devil, and
death and damnation; for this is our proper state by nature, though we see it not until the
Spirit of God shall come to reveal this our state of bondage unto our own senses by revealing
to us our sins by the law.

2. He is called, in this his working, "the spirit of bondage," because he here also holds us;
to wit, in this sight and sense of our bondage-state, so long as is meet we should be so held,
which to some of the saints is a longer, and to some a shorter time. Paul was held in it three
days and three nights, but the jailer and the three thousand, so far as can be gathered, not
above an hour; but some in these later times are so held for days and months, if not years.[11]
But, I say, let the time be longer or shorter, it is the Spirit of God that holdeth him under
this yoke; and it is good that a man should be in HIS time held under it, as is that saying
of the lamentation, "It is good for a man that he bear the yoke in his youth" (Lam 3:27). That
is, at his first awakening; so long as seems good to this Holy Spirit to work in this manner
by the law. Now, as I said, the sinner at first is by the Spirit of God held in this bondage,
that is, hath such a discovery of his sin and of his damnation for sin made to him, and also
is held so fast under the sense thereof, that it is not in the power of any man, nor yet of
the very angels in heaven, to release him or set him free, until the Holy Spirit changeth his
ministration, and comes in the sweet and peaceable tidings of salvation by Christ in the gospel
to his poor, dejected, and afflicted conscience.

Third. I now come to show you what this fear doth in the soul. Now, although this godly fear
is not to last always with us, as I shall further show you anon, yet it greatly differs from
that which is wholly ungodly of itself, both because of the author, and also of the effects
of it. Of the author I have told you before; I now shall tell you what it doth.

1. This fear makes a man judge himself for sin, and to fall down before God with a broken mind
under this judgment; the which is pleasing to God, because the sinner by so doing justifies
God in his saying, and clears him in his judgment (Psa 51:1-4).

2. As this fear makes a man judge himself, and cast himself down at God's foot, so it makes
him condole and bewail his misery before him, which is also well-pleasing in his sight: "I
have surely heard Ephraim bemoaning himself," saying, "Thou hast chastised me, and I was chastised,
as a bullock unaccustomed to the yoke," &c. (Jer 31:18,19).

3. This fear makes a man lie at God's foot, and puts his mouth in the dust, if so be there
may be hope. This also is well-pleasing to God, because now is the sinner as nothing, and in
his own eyes less than nothing, as to any good or desert: "He sitteth alone and keepeth silence,"
because he hath now this yoke upon him; "he putteth his mouth in the dust, if so be there may
be hope" (Lam 3:28,29).

4. This fear puts a man upon crying to God for mercy, and that in most humble manner; now he
sensibly cries, now he dejectedly cries, now he feels and cries, now he smarts and criest out,
"God be merciful to me a sinner" (Luke 18:13).

5. This fear makes a man that he cannot accept of that for support and succour which others
that are destitute thereof will take up, and be contented with. This man must be washed by
God himself, and cleansed from his sin by God himself (Psa 51).

6. Therefore this fear goes not away until the Spirit of God doth change his ministration as
to this particular, in leaving off to work now by the law, as afore, and coming to the soul
with the sweet word of promise of life and salvation by Jesus Christ. Thus far this fear is
godly, that is, until Christ by the Spirit in the gospel is revealed and made over unto us,
and no longer.

Thus far this fear is godly, and the reason why it is godly is because the groundwork of it
is good. I told you before what this fear is; namely, it is the fear of damnation. Now the
ground for this fear is good, as is manifest by these particulars. 1. The soul feareth damnation,
and that rightly, because it is in its sins. 2. The soul feareth damnation rightly, because
it hath not faith in Christ, but is at present under the law. 3. The soul feareth damnation
rightly now, because by sin, the law, and for want of faith, the wrath of God abideth on it.
But now, although thus far this fear of God is good and godly, yet after Christ by the Spirit
in the word of the gospel is revealed to us, and we made to accept of him as so revealed and
offered to us by a true and living faith; this fear, to wit, of damnation, is no longer good,
but ungodly. Nor doth the Spirit of God ever work it in us again. Now we do not receive the
spirit of bondage again to fear, that is to say, to fear damnation, but we have received the
spirit of adoption, whereby we cry, Father, Father. But I would not be mistaken, when I say,
that this fear is no longer godly. I do not mean with reference to the essence and habit of
it, for I believe it is the same in the seed which shall afterwards grow up to a higher degree,
and into a more sweet and gospel current and manner of working, but I mean reference to this
act of fearing damnation, I say it shall never by the Spirit be managed to that work; it shall
never bring forth that fruit more. And my reasons are,

[Reasons why the Spirit of God cannot work this ungodly fear.]

1. Because that the soul by closing through the promise, by the Spirit, with Jesus Christ,
is removed off of that foundation upon which it stood when it justly feared damnation. It hath
received now forgiveness of sin, it is now no more under the law, but in Jesus Christ by faith;
there is "therefore now no condemnation to it" (Acts 26:18; Rom 6:14, 8:1). The groundwork,
therefore, being now taken away, the Spirit worketh that fear no more.

2. He cannot, after he hath come to the soul as a spirit of adoption, come again as a spirit
of bondage to put the soul into his first fear; to wit, a fear of eternal damnation, because
he cannot say and unsay, do and undo. As a spirit of adoption he told me that my sins were
forgiven me, that I was included in the covenant of grace, that God was my Father through Christ,
that I was under the promise of salvation, and that this calling and gift of God to me is permanent,
and without repentance. And do you think, that after he hath told me this, and sealed up the
truth of it to my precious soul, that he will come to me, and tell me that I am yet in my sins,
under the curse of the law and the eternal wrath of God? No, no, the word of the gospel is
not yea, yea; nay, nay. It is only yea, and amen; it is so, "as God is true" (2 Cor 1:17-20).

3. The state therefore of the sinner being changed, and that, too, by the Spirit's changing
his dispensation, leaving off to be now as a spirit of bondage to put us in fear, and coming
to our heart as the spirit of adoption to make us cry, Father, Father, he cannot go back to
his first work again; for if so, then he must gratify, yea, and also ratify, that profane and
popish doctrine, forgiven to-day, unforgiven to-morrow--a child of God to-day, a child of hell
to-morrow; but what saith the Scriptures? (Eph 2:19-22).

Object. But this is contrary to my experience. Why, Christian, what is thy experience? Why,
I was at first, as you have said, possessed with a fear of damnation, and so under the power
of the spirit of bondage. Well said, and how was it then? Why, after some time of continuance
in these fears, I had the spirit of adoption sent to me to seal up to my soul the forgiveness
of sins, and so he did; and was also helped by the same Spirit, as you have said, to call God
Father, Father. Well said, and what after that? Why, after that I fell into as great fears
as ever I was in before.[12]

Answ. All this may be granted, and yet nevertheless what I have said will abide a truth; for
I have not said that after the spirit of adoption is come, a Christian shall not again be in
as great fears, for he may have worse than he had at first; but I say, that after the spirit
of adoption is come, the spirit of bondage, as such, is sent of God no more, to put us into
those fears. For, mark, for we "have not received the spirit of bondage again to fear." Let
the word be true, whatever thy experience is. Dost thou not understand me?

After the Spirit of God has told me, and also helped me to believe it, that the Lord for Christ's
sake hath forgiven mine iniquities: he tells me no more that they are not forgiven. After the
Spirit of God has helped me, by Christ, to call God my Father, he tells me no more that the
devil is my father. After he hath told me that I am not under the law, but under grace, he
tells me no more that I am not under grace, but under the law, and bound over by it, for my
sins, to the wrath and judgment of God; but this is the fear that the Spirit, as a spirit of
bondage, worketh in the soul at first.

Quest. Can you give me further reason yet to convict me of the truth of what you say?

Answ. Yes.

1. Because as the Spirit cannot give himself the lie, so he cannot overthrow his own order
of working, nor yet contradict that testimony that his servants, by his inspiration, hath given
of his order of working with them. But he must do the first, if he saith to us--and that after
we have received his own testimony, that we are under grace--that yet we are under sin, the
law, and wrath.

And he must do the second, if--after he hath gone through the first work on us as a spirit
of bondage, to the second as a spirit of adoption--he should overthrow as a spirit of bondage
again what before he had built as a spirit of adoption.

And the third must therefore needs follow, that is, he overthroweth the testimony of his servants;
for they have said, that now we receive the spirit of bondage again to fear no more; that is,
after that we by the Holy Ghost are enabled to call God Father, Father.

2. This is evident also, because the covenant in which now the soul is interested abideth,
and is everlasting, not upon the supposition of my obedience, but upon the unchangeable purpose
of God, and the efficacy of the obedience of Christ, whose blood also hath confirmed it. It
is "ordered in all things, and sure," said David; and this, said he, "is all my salvation"
(2 Sam 23:5). The covenant then is everlasting in itself, being established upon so good a
foundation, and therefore standeth in itself everlastingly bent for the good of them that are
involved in it. (Heb 8:10-12). Now if God will do thus unto those that he hath comprised in
his everlasting covenant of grace, then he will remember their sins no more, that is, unto
condemnation--for so it is that he doth forget them; then cannot the Holy Ghost, who also is
one with the Father and the Son, come to us again, even after we are possessed with these glorious
fruits of this covenant, as a spirit of bondage, to put us in fear of damnation.

3. The Spirit of God, after it has come to me as a spirit of adoption, can come to me no more
as a spirit of bondage, to put me in fear, that is, with my first fears; because, by that faith
that he, even he himself, hath wrought in me, to believe and call God "Father, Father," I am
united to Christ, and stand no more upon mine own legs, in mine own sins, or performances;
but in his glorious righteousness before him, and before his Father; but he will not cast away
a member of his body, of his flesh, and of his bones; nor will he, that the Spirit of God should
come as a spirit of bondage to put him into a grounded fear of damnation, that standeth complete
before God in the righteousness of Christ; for that is an apparent contradiction.[13]

Quest. But may it not come again as a spirit of bondage, to put me into my first fears for my good?

Answ. The text saith the contrary; for we "have not received the spirit of bondage again to
fear." Nor is God put to it for want of wisdom, to say and unsay, do and undo, or else he cannot
do good. When we are sons, and have received the adoption of children, he doth not use to send
the spirit after that to tell us we are slaves and heirs of damnation, also that we are without
Christ, without the promise, without grace, and without God in the world; and yet this he must
do if it comes to us after we have received him as a spirit of adoption, and put us, as a spirit
of bondage, in fear as before.

[This ungodly fear wrought by the spirit of the devil.]

Quest. But by what spirit is it then that I am brought again into fears, even into the fears
of damnation, and so into bondage?

Answ. By the spirit of the devil, who always labours to frustrate the faith, and hope, and
comfort of the godly.

Quest. How doth that appear?

Answ. 1. By the groundlessness of such fears. 2. By the unseasonableness of them. 3. By the
effects of them.

1. By the groundlessness of such fears. The ground is removed; for a grounded fear of damnation
is this--I am yet in my sins, in a state of nature, under the law, without faith, and so under
the wrath of God. This, I say, is the ground of the fear of damnation, the true ground to fear
it; but now the man that we are talking of, is one that hath the ground of this fear taken
away by the testimony and seal of the spirit of adoption. He is called, justified, and has,
for the truth of this his condition, received the evidence of the spirit of adoption, and hath
been thereby enabled to call God "Father, Father." Now he that hath received this, has the
ground of the fear of damnation taken from him; therefore his fear, I say, being without ground,
is false, and so no work of the Spirit of God.

2. By the unseasonableness of them. This spirit always comes too late. It comes after the spirit
of adoption is come. Satan is always for being too soon or too late. If he would have men believe
they are children, he would have them believe it while they are slaves, slaves to him and their
lusts. If he would have them believe they are slaves, it is when they are sons, and have received
the spirit of adoption, and the testimony, by that, of their sonship before. And this evil
is rooted even in his nature--"He is a liar, and the father of it"; and his lies are not known
to saints more than in this, that he labours always to contradict the work and order of the
Spirit of truth (John 8).

3. It also appears by the effects of such fears. For there is a great deal of difference betwixt
the natural effects of these fears which are wrought indeed by the spirit of bondage, and those
which are wrought by the spirit of the devil afterwards. The one, to wit, the fears that are
wrought by the spirit of bondage, causeth us to confess the truth, to wit, that we are Christless,
graceless, faithless, and so at present; that is, while he is so working in a sinful and damnable
case; but the other, to wit, the spirit of the devil, when he comes, which is after the spirit
of adoption is come, he causeth us to make a lie; that is, to say we are Christless, graceless,
and faithless. Now this, I say, is wholly, and in all part of it, a lie, and HE is the father
of it.

Besides, the direct tendency of the fear that the Spirit of God, as a spirit of bondage, worketh
in the soul, is to cause us to come repenting home to God by Jesus Christ, but these latter
fears tend directly to make a man, he having first denied the work of God, as he will, if he
falleth in with them, to run quite away from God, and from his grace to him in Christ, as will
evidently appear if thou givest but a plain and honest answer to these questions following.

[This fear driveth a man from God.]

Quest. 1. Do not these fears make thee question whether there was ever a work of grace wrought
in thy soul? Answ. Yes, verily, that they do. Quest. 2. Do not these fears make thee question
whether ever thy first fears were wrought by the Holy Spirit of God? Answ. Yes, verily, that
they do. Quest. 3. Do not these fears make thee question whether ever thou hast had, indeed,
any true comfort from the Word and Spirit of God? Answ. Yes, verily, that they do. Quest. 4.
Dost thou not find intermixed with these fears plain assertions that thy first comforts were
either from thy fancy, or from the devil, and a fruit of his delusions? Answ. Yes, verily,
that I do. Quest. 5. Do not these fears weaken thy heart in prayer? Answ. Yes, that they do.
Quest. 6. Do not these fears keep thee back from laying hold of the promise of salvation by
Jesus Christ? Answ. Yes; for I think if I were deceived before, if I were comforted by a spirit
of delusion before, why may it not be so again? so I am afraid to take hold of the promise.
Quest. 7. Do not these fears tend to the hardening of thy heart, and to the making of thee
desperate? Answ. Yes, verily, that they do. Quest. 8. Do not these fears hinder thee from profiting
in hearing or reading of the Word? Answ. Yes, verily, for still whatever I hear or read, I
think nothing that is good belongs to me. Quest. 9. Do not these fears tend to the stirring
up of blasphemies in thy heart against God? Answ. Yes, to the almost distracting of me. Quest.
10. Do not these fears make thee sometimes think, that it is in vain for thee to wait upon
the Lord any longer? Answ. Yes, verily; and I have many times almost come to this conclusion,
that I will read, pray, hear, company with God's people, or the like, no longer.

Well, poor Christian, I am glad that thou hast so plainly answered me; but, prithee, look back
upon thy answer. How much of God dost thou think is in these things? how much of his Spirit,
and the grace of his Word? Just none at all; for it cannot be that these things can be the
true and natural effects of the workings of the Spirit of God: no, not as a spirit of bondage.
These are not his doings. Dost thou not see the very paw of the devil in them; yea, in every
one of thy ten confessions? Is there not palpably high wickedness in every one of the effects
of this fear? I conclude, then, as I began, that the fear that the spirit of God, as a spirit
of bondage, worketh, is good and godly, not only because of the author, but also because of
the ground and effects; but yet it can last no longer as such, as producing the aforesaid conclusion,
than till the Spirit, as the spirit of adoption, comes; because that then the soul is manifestly
taken out of the state and condition into which it had brought itself by nature and sin, and
is put into Christ, and so by him into a state of life and blessedness by grace. Therefore,
if first fears come again into thy soul, after that the spirit of adoption hath been with thee,
know they come not from the Spirit of God, but apparently from the spirit of the devil, for
they are a lie in themselves, and their effects are sinful and devilish.

Object. But I had also such wickedness as those in my heart at my first awakening, and therefore,
by your argument, neither should that be but from the devil.

Answ. So far forth as such wickedness was in thy heart, so far did the devil and thine own
heart seek to drive thee to despair, and drown thee there; but thou hast forgot the question;
the question is not whether then thou wast troubled with such iniquities, but whether thy fears
of damnation at that time were not just and good, because grounded upon thy present condition,
which was, for that thou wast out of Christ, in thy sins, and under the curse of the law; and
whether now, since the spirit of adoption is come unto thee, and hath thee, and hath done that
for thee as hath been mentioned; I say, whether thou oughtest for anything whatsoever to give
way to the same fear, from the same ground of damnation; it is evident thou oughtest not, because
the ground, the cause, is removed.

Object. But since I was sealed to the day of redemption, I have grievously sinned against God,
have not I, therefore, cause to fear, as before? may not, therefore, the spirit of bondage
be sent again to put me in fear, as at first? Sin was the first cause, and I have sinned now.

Answ. No, by no means; for we have not received the spirit of bondage again to fear; that is,
God hath not given it us, "for God hath not given us the spirit of fear; but of power, and
of love, and of a sound mind" (2 Tim 1:7). If, therefore, our first fears come upon us again,
after that we have received at God's hands the spirit of love, of power, and of a sound mind,
it is to be refused, though we have grievously sinned against our God. This is manifest from
1 Samuel 12:20; "Fear not; ye have done all this wickedness." That is, not with that fear which
would have made them fly from God, as concluding that they were not now his people. And the
reason is, because sin cannot dissolve the covenant into which the sons of God, by his grace,
are taken. "If his children forsake my law, and walk not in my judgments; if they break my
statutes, and keep not my commandments; then will I visit their transgressions with the rod,
and their iniquity with stripes. Nevertheless, my loving-kindness will I not utterly take from
him, nor suffer my faithfulness to fail" (Psa 89:30-33). Now, if sin doth not dissolve the
covenant; if sin doth not cast me out of this covenant, which is made personally with the Son
of God, and into the hands of which by the grace of God I am put, then ought I not, though
I have sinned, to fear with my first fears.

Sin, after that the spirit of adoption is come, cannot dissolve the relation of Father and
son, of Father and child. And this the church did rightly assert, and that when her heart was
under great hardness, and when she had the guilt of erring from his ways, saith she. "Doubtless
thou art our Father" (Isa 63:16,17). Doubtless thou art, though this be our case, and though
Israel should not acknowledge us for such. And because ye are sons, God hath sent forth the
Spirit of his Son into your hearts, crying, [Abba, or] Father, Father." Now mark, "wherefore
thou art no more a servant"; that is, no more under the law of death and damnation, "but a
son; and if a son, then an heir of God through Christ" (Gal 4:4-7).

Suppose a child doth grievously transgress against and offend his father, is the relation between
them therefore dissolved? Again, suppose the father should scourge and chasten the son for
such offence, is the relation between them therefore dissolved? Yea, suppose the child should
now, through ignorance, cry, and say, This man is now no more my father; is he, therefore,
now no more his father? Doth not everybody see the folly of such arguings? Why, of the same
nature is that doctrine that saith, that after we have received the spirit of adoption, that
the spirit of bondage is sent to us again to put us in fear of eternal damnation.

Know then that thy sin, after thou hast received the spirit of adoption to cry unto God, Father,
Father, is counted the transgression of a child, not of a slave, and that all that happeneth
to thee for that transgression is but the chastisement of a father--and "what son is he whom
the father chasteneth not?" It is worth your observation, that the Holy Ghost checks those
who, under their chastisements for sin, forget to call God their Father--"Ye have," said Paul,
"forgotten the exhortation which speaketh unto you as unto children, My son, despise not thou
the chastening of the Lord, nor faint when thou art rebuked of him." Yea, observe yet further,
that God's chastising of his children for their sin, is a a sign of grace and love, and not
of his wrath, and thy damnation; therefore now there is no ground for the aforesaid fear--"For
whom the Lord loveth he chasteneth, and scourgeth every son whom he receiveth" (Heb 12). Now,
if God would not have those that have received the Spirit of the Son, however he chastises
them, to forget the relation that by the adoption of sons they stand in to God, if he checks
them that do forget it, when his rod is upon their backs for sin, then it is evident that those
fears that thou hast under a colour of the coming again of the Spirit, as a spirit of bondage,
to put thee in fear of eternal damnation, is nothing else but Satan disguised, the better to
play his pranks upon thee.

I will yet give you two or three instances more, wherein it will be manifest that whatever
happeneth to thee, I mean as a chastisement for sin, after the spirit of adoption is come,
thou oughtest to hold fast by faith the relation of Father and son. The people spoken of by
Moses are said to have lightly esteemed the rock of their salvation, which rock is Jesus Christ,
and that is a grievous sin indeed, yet, saith he, "Is not God thy Father that hath bought thee?"
and then puts them upon considering the days of old (Deut 32:6). They in the prophet Jeremiah
had played the harlot with many lovers, and done evil things as they could; and, as another
scripture hath it, gone a-whoring from under their God, yet God calls to them by the prophet,
saying, "Wilt thou not from this time cry unto me, My Father, thou art the guide of my youth?"
(Jer 3:4). Remember also that eminent text made mention of in 1 Samuel 12:20, "Fear not; ye
have done all this wickedness"; and labour to maintain faith in thy soul, of thy being a child,
it being true that thou hast received the spirit of adoption before, and so that thou oughtest
not to fall under thy first fears, because the ground is taken away, of thy eternal damnation.

Now, let not any, from what hath been said, take courage to live loose lives, under a supposition
that once in Christ, and ever in Christ, and the covenant cannot be broken, nor the relation
of Father and child dissolved; for they that do so, it is evident, have not known what it is
to receive the spirit of adoption. It is the spirit of the devil in his own hue that suggesteth
this unto them, and that prevaileth with them to do so. Shall we do evil that good may come?
shall we sin that grace may abound? or shall we be base in life because God by grace hath secured
us from wrath to come? God forbid; these conclusions betoken one void of the fear of God indeed,
and of the spirit of adoption too. For what son is he, that because the father cannot break
the relation, nor suffer sin to do it--that is, betwixt the Father and him--that will therefore
say, I will live altogether after my own lusts, I will labour to be a continual grief to my Father?

[Considerations to prevent such temptations.]

Yet lest the devil (for some are "not ignorant of his devices" ), should get an advantage against
some of the sons, to draw them away from the filial fear of their Father, let me here, to prevent
such temptations, present such with these following considerations.

First. Though God cannot, will not, dissolve the relation which the spirit of adoption hath
made betwixt the Father and the Son, for any sins that such do commit, yet he can, and often
doth, take away from them the comfort of their adoption, not suffering children while sinning
to have the sweet and comfortable sense thereof on their hearts. He can tell how to let snares
be round about them, and sudden fear trouble them. He can tell how to send darkness that they
may not see, and to let abundance of waters cover them (Job 22:10,11).

Second. God can tell how to hide his face from them, and so to afflict them with that dispensation,
that it shall not be in the power of all the world to comfort them. "When he hideth his face,
who then can behold him?" (Job 23:8,9, 34:29).

Third. God can tell how to make thee again to possess the sins that he long since hath pardoned,
and that in such wise that things shall be bitter to thy soul. "Thou writest bitter things
against me," says Job, "and makest me to possess the iniquities of my youth." By this also
he once made David groan and pray against it as an insupportable affliction (Job 13:26; Psa 25:7).

Fourth. God can lay thee in the dungeon in chains, and roll a stone upon thee, he can make
thy feet fast in the stocks, and make thee a gazing-stock to men and angels (Lam 3:7,53,55;
Job 13:27; Nahum 3:6).

Fifth. God can tell how to cause to cease the sweet operations and blessed influences of his
grace in thy soul, and to make those gospel showers that formerly thou hast enjoyed to become
now to thee nothing but powder and dust (Psa 51; Deut 28:24).

Sixth. God can tell how to fight against thee "with the sword of his mouth," and to make thee
a butt for his arrows; and this is a dispensation most dreadful (Rev 2:16; Job 6:4; Psa 38:2-5).

Seventh. God can tell how so to bow thee down with guilt and distress that thou shalt in no
wise be able to lift up thy head (Psa 40:12).

Eighth. God can tell how to break thy bones, and to make thee by reason of that to live in
continual anguish of spirit: yea, he can send a fire into thy bones that shall burn, and none
shall quench it (Psa 51:8; Lam 3:4, 1:13; Psa 102:3; Job 30:30).

Ninth. God can tell how to lay thee aside, and make no use of thee as to any work for him in
thy generation. He can throw thee aside "as a broken vessel" (Psa 31:12; Eze 44:10-13).

Tenth. God can tell how to kill thee, and to take thee away from the earth for thy sins (1
Cor 11:29-32).

Eleventh. God can tell how to plague thee in thy death, with great plagues, and of long continuance
(Psa 78:45; Deut 28).

Twelfth. What shall I say? God can tell how to let Satan loose upon thee; when thou liest a
dying he can license him then to assault thee with great temptations, he can tell how to make
thee possess the guilt of all thy unkindness towards him, and that when thou, as I said, art
going out of the world, he can cause that thy life shall be in continual doubt before thee,
and not suffer thee to take any comfort day nor night; yea, he can drive thee even to a madness
with his chastisements for thy folly, and yet all shall be done by him to thee, as a father
chastiseth his son (Deut 28:65-67).

Thirteenth. Further, God can tell how to tumble thee from off thy deathbed in a cloud, he can
let thee die in the dark; when thou art dying thou shalt not know whither thou art going, to
wit, whether to heaven or to hell. Yea, he can tell how to let thee seem to come short of life,
both in thine own eyes, and also in the eyes of them that behold thee. "Let us therefore fear,"
says the apostle,--though not with slavish, yet with filial fear--"lest a promise being left
us of entering into his rest, any of you should seem to come short of it" (Heb 4:1).

Now all this, and much more, can God do to his as a Father by his rod and fatherly rebukes;
ah, who know but those that are under them, what terrors, fears, distresses, and amazements
God can bring his people into; he can put them into a furnace, a fire, and no tongue can tell
what, so unsearchable and fearful are his fatherly chastisements, and yet never give them the
spirit of bondage again to fear. Therefore, if thou art a son, take heed of sin, lest all these
things overtake thee, and come upon thee.

Object. But I have sinned, and am under this high and mighty hand of God.

Answ. Then thou knowest what I say is true, but yet take heed of hearkening unto such temptations
as would make thee believe thou art out of Christ, under the law, and in a state of damnation;
and take heed also, that thou dost not conclude that the author of these fears is the Spirit
of God come to thee again as a spirit of bondage, to put thee into such fears, lest unawares
to thyself thou dost defy the devil, dishonour thy Father, overthrow good doctrine, and bring
thyself into a double temptation.

Object. But if God deals thus with a man, how can he otherwise think but that he is a reprobate,
a graceless, Christless, and faithless one?

Answ. Nay, but why dost thou tempt the Lord thy God? Why dost thou sin and provoke the eyes
of his glory? (Lam 3:39). He doth not willingly afflict nor grieve the children of men; but
if thou sinnest, though God should save thy soul, as he will if thou art an adopted son of
God, yet he will make thee know that sin is sin, and his rod that he will chastise thee with,
if need be, shall be made of scorpions; read the whole book of the Lamentations; read Job's
and David's complaints; yea, read what happened to his Son, his well-beloved, and that when
he did but stand in the room of sinners, being in himself altogether innocent, and then consider,
O thou sinning child of God, if it is any injustice in God, yea, if it be not necessary, that
thou shouldest be chastised for thy sin. But then, I say, when the hand of God is upon thee,
how grievous soever it be, take heed, and beware that thou give not way to thy first fears,
lest, as I said before, thou addest to thine affliction; and to help thee here, let me give
you a few instances of the carriages of some of the saints under some of the most heavy afflictions
that they have met with for sin.

[Carriages of some of the saints under heavy afflictions for sin.]

First. Job was in great affliction and that, as he confessed, for sin, insomuch that he said
God had set him for his mark to shoot at, and that he ran upon him like a giant, that he took
him by the neck and shook him to pieces, and counted him for his enemy; that he hid his face
from him, and that he could not tell where to find him; yet he counted not all this as a sign
of a damnable state, but as a trial, and chastisement, and said, when he was in the hottest
of the battle, "when he hath tried me I shall come forth as gold." And again, when he was pressed
upon by the tempter to think that God would kill him, he answers with greatest confidence,
"Though he slay me, yet will I trust in him" (Job 7:20, 13:15, 14:12, 16, 19:11, 23:8-10).

Second. David complained that God had broken his bones, that he had set his face against his
sins, and had taken from him the joy of his salvation: yet even at this time he saith, "O God,
thou God of my salvation" (Psa 51:8,9,12,14).

Third. Heman complained that his soul was full of troubles, that God had laid him in the lowest
pit, that he had put his acquaintance far from him, and was casting off his soul, and had hid
his face from him. That he was afflicted from his youth up, and ready to die with trouble:
he saith, moreover, that the fierce wrath of God went over him, that his terrors had cut him
off; yea, that by reason of them he was distracted; and yet, even before he maketh any of these
complaints, he takes fast hold of God as his, saying, "O Lord God of my salvation" (Psa 88).

Fourth. But what doth she do under all this trial? doth she give up her faith and hope, and
return to that fear that begot the first bondage?

These things show, that God's people even after they have received the spirit of adoption,
have fell foully into sin, and have been bitterly chastised for it; and also, that when the
rod was most smart upon them, they made great conscience of giving way to their first fears
wherewith they were made afraid by the Spirit as it wrought as a spirit of bondage; for indeed
there is no such thing as the coming of the spirit of bondage to put us in fear the second
time, as such, that is, after he is come as the spirit of adoption to the soul.

I conclude then, that that fear that is wrought by the spirit of bondage is good and godly,
because the ground for it is sound; and I also conclude, that he comes to the soul as a spirit
of bondage but once, and that once is before he comes as a spirit of adoption: and if therefore
the same fear doth again take hold of thy heart, that is, if after thou hast received the spirit
of adoption thou fearest again the damnation of thy soul, that thou art out of Christ and under
the law, that fear is bad and of the devil, and ought by no means to be admitted by thee.

[How the devil worketh these fears.]

1. Quest. But since it is as you say, how doth the devil, after the spirit of adoption is come,
work the child of God into those fears of being out of Christ, not forgiven, and so an heir
of damnation again?

Answ. 1. By giving the lie, and by prevailing with us to give it too, to the work of grace
wrought in our hearts, and to the testimony of the Holy Spirit of adoption. Or, 2. By abusing
of our ignorance of the everlasting love of God to his in Christ, and the duration of the covenant
of grace. Or, 3. By abusing some scripture that seems to look that way, but doth not. Or, 4.
By abusing our senses and reason. Or, 5. By strengthening of our unbelief. Or, 6. By overshadowing
of our judgment with horrid darkness. Or, 7. By giving of us counterfeit representations of
God. Or, 8. By stirring up, and setting in a rage, our inward corruptions. Or, 9. By pouring
into our hearts abundance of horrid blasphemies. Or, 10. By putting of wrong constructions
on the rod, and chastising hand of God. Or, 11. By charging upon us, that our ill behaviours
under the rod, and chastising hand of God, is a sign that we indeed have no grace, but are
downright graceless reprobates. By these things and other like these, Satan, I say, Satan bringeth
the child of God, not only to the borders, but even into the bowels of the fears of damnation,
after it hath received a blessed testimony of eternal life, and that by the Holy Spirit of
adoption.

[The people of God should fear his rod.]

Quest. But would you not have the people of God stand in fear of his rod, and be afraid of
his judgments?

Answ. Yes, and the more they are rightly afraid of them, the less and the seldomer will they
come under them; for it is want of fear that brings us into sin, and it is sin that brings
us into these afflictions. But I would not have them fear with the fear of slaves; for that
will add no strength against sin; but I would have them fear with the reverential fear of sons,
and that is the way to depart from evil.

Quest. How is that?

Answ. Why, having before received the spirit of adoption; still to believe that he is our father,
and so to fear with the fear of children, not as slaves fear a tyrant. I would therefore have
them to look upon his rod, rebukes, chidings, and chastisements, and also upon the wrath wherewith
he doth inflict, to be but the dispensations of their Father. This believed, maintains, or
at least helps to maintain, in the heart, a son-like bowing under the rod. It also maintains
in the soul a son-like confession of sin, and a justifying of God under all the rebukes that
he grieveth us with. It also engageth us to come to him, to claim and lay hold of former mercies,
to expect more, and to hope a good end shall be made of all God's present dispensations towards
us (Micah 7:9; Lam 1:18; Psa 77:10-12; Lam 3:31-34).[14]

Now God would have us thus fear his rod, because he is resolved to chastise us therewith, if
so be we sin against him, as I have already showed; for although God's bowels turn within him,
even while he is threatening his people, yet if we sin, he will lay on the rod so hard as to
make us cry, "Woe unto us that we have sinned" (Lam 5:16); and therefore, as I said, we should
be afraid of his judgments, yet only as afore is provided as of the rod, wrath, and judgment
of a Father.

[Five considerations to move to child-like fear.]

Quest. But have you yet any other considerations to move us to fear God with child-like fear?

Answ. I will in this place give you five. 1. Consider that God thinks meet to have it so, and
he is wiser in heart than thou; he knows best how to secure his people from sin, and to that
end hath given them law and commandments to read, that they may learn to fear him as a Father
(Job 37:24; Eccl 3:14; Deut 17:18,19). 2. Consider he is mighty in power; if he touch but with
a fatherly touch, man nor angel cannot bear it; yea, Christ makes use of that argument, he
"hath power to cast into hell; Fear him" (Luke 12:4,5). 3. Consider that he is everywhere;
thou canst not be out of his sight or presence; nor out of the reach of his hand. "Fear ye
not me? saith the Lord." 4. Consider that he is holy, and cannot look with liking upon the
sins of his own people. Therefore, says Peter, be "as obedient children, not fashioning yourselves
according to the former lusts in your ignorance, but as he which hath called you is holy, so
be ye holy in all manner of conversation, because it is written, Be ye holy, for I am holy.
And if ye call on the Father, who without respect of persons judgeth according to every man's
work, pass the time of your sojourning here in fear." 5. Consider that he is good, and has
been good to thee, good in that he hath singled thee out from others, and saved thee from their
death and hell, though thou perhaps wast worse in thy life than those that he left when he
laid hold on thee. O this should engage thy heart to fear the Lord all the days of thy life.
They "shall fear the Lord, and his goodness in the latter days" (Hosea 3:5). And now for the
present, I have done with that fear, I mean as to its first workings, to wit, to put me in
fear of damnation, and shall come, in the next place, to treat

OF THE GRACE OF FEAR MORE IMMEDIATELY INTENDED IN THE TEXT.

I shall now speak to this fear, which I call a lasting godly fear; first, by way of explication;
by which I shall show, FIRST. How by the Scripture it is described. SECOND. I shall show you
what this fear flows from. And then, THIRD. I shall also show you what doth flow from it.

[How this Fear is described by the Scripture.]

FIRST. For the first of these, to wit, how by the Scripture this fear is described; and that,
First. More generally. Second. More particularly.

First. More generally.

1. It is called a grace, that is, a sweet and blessed work of the Spirit of grace, as he is
given to the elect by God. Hence the apostle says, "let us have grace, whereby we may serve
God acceptably, with reverence and godly fear" (Heb 12:28). For as that fear that brings bondage
is wrought in the soul by the Spirit as a spirit of bondage, so this fear, which is a fear
that we have while we are in the liberty of sons, is wrought by him as he manifesteth to us
our liberty; "where the Spirit of the Lord is, there is liberty," that is, where he is as a
spirit of adoption, setting the soul free from that bondage under which it was held by the
same Spirit while he wrought as a spirit of bondage. Hence as he is called a spirit working
bondage to fear, so he, as the Spirit of the Son and of adoption, is called "the Spirit of
the fear of the Lord" (Isa 11:2). Because it is that Spirit of grace that is the author, animater,
and maintainer of our filial fear, or of that fear that is son-like, and that subjecteth the
elect unto God, his word, and ways; unto him, his word, and ways, as a Father.

2. This fear is called also the fear of God, not as that which is ungodly is, nor yet as that
may be which is wrought by the Spirit as a spirit of bondage, but by way of eminency; to wit,
as a dispensation of the grace of the gospel, and as a fruit of eternal love. "I will put my
fear in their hearts, that they shall not depart from me" (Jer 32:38-41).

3. This fear of God is called God's treasure, for it is one of his choice jewels, it is one
of the rarities of heaven, "The fear of the Lord is his treasure" (Isa 33:6). And it may well
go under such a title; for as treasure, so the fear of the Lord is not found in every corner.
It is said all men have not faith, because that also is more precious than gold; the same is
said about this fear--"There is no fear of God before their eyes"; that is, the greatest part
of men are utterly destitute of this godly jewel, this treasure, the fear of the Lord. Poor
vagrants, when they come straggling to a lord's house, may perhaps obtain some scraps and fragments,
they may also obtain old shoes, and some sorry cast-off rags, but they get not any of his jewels,
they may not touch his choicest treasure; that is kept for the children, and those that shall
be his heirs. We may say the same also of this blessed grace of fear, which is called here
God's treasure. It is only bestowed upon the elect, the heirs and children of the promise;
all others are destitute of it, and so continue to death and judgment.

4. This grace of fear is that which maketh men excel and go beyond all men, in the account
of God; it is that which beautifies a man, and prefers him above all other; "Hast thou," says
God to Satan, "considered my servant Job, that there is none like him in the earth, a perfect
and an upright man, one that feareth God, and escheweth evil?" (Job 1:8, 2:3). Mind it, "There
is none like him, none alike him in the earth." I suppose he means either [that Job was the
only most perfect and upright man] in those parts, or else he was the man that abounded in
the fear of the Lord; none like him to fear the Lord, he only excelled others with respect
to his reverencing of God, bowing before him, and sincerely complying with his will; and therefore
is counted the excellent man. It is not the knowledge of the will of God, but our sincere complying
therewith, that proveth we fear the Lord; and it is our so doing that putteth upon us the note
of excelling; hereby appears our perfection, herein is manifest our uprightness. A perfect
and an upright man is one that feareth God, and that because he escheweth evil. Therefore this
grace of fear is that without which no part or piece of service which we do to God, can be
accepted of him. It is, as I may call it, the salt of the covenant, which seasoneth the heart,
and therefore must not be lacking there; it is also that which salteth, or seasoneth all our
doings, and therefore must not be lacking in any of them (Lev 2:13).

5. I take this grace of fear to be that which softeneth and mollifieth the heart, and that
makes it stand in awe both of the mercies and judgments of God. This is that that retaineth
in the heart that due dread, and reverence of the heavenly majesty, that is meet should be
both in, and kept in the heart of poor sinners. Wherefore when David described this fear, in
the exercise of it, he calls it an awe of God. "Stand in awe," saith he, "and sin not"; and
again, "my heart standeth in awe of thy word"; and again, "Let all the earth fear the Lord";
what is that? or how is that? why? "Let all the inhabitants of the world stand in awe of him"
(Psa 4:4, 119:161, 33:8). This is that therefore that is, as I said before, so excellent a
thing in the eyes of God, to wit, a grace of the Spirit, the fear of God, his treasure, the
salt of the covenant, that which makes men excel all others; for it is that which maketh the
sinner to stand in awe of God, which posture is the most comely thing in us, throughout all
ages. But,

Second. And more particularly.

1. This grace is called "the beginning of knowledge," because by the first gracious discovery
of God to the soul, this grace is begot: and again, because the first time that the soul doth
apprehend God in Christ to be good unto it, this grace is animated, by which the soul is put
into an holy awe of God, which causeth it with reverence and due attention to hearken to him,
and tremble before him (Prov 1:7). It is also by virtue of this fear that the soul doth inquire
yet more after the blessed knowledge of God. This is the more evident, because, where this
fear of God is wanting, or where the discovery of God is not attended with it, the heart still
abides rebellious, obstinate, and unwilling to know more, that it might comply therewith; nay,
for want of it, such sinners say rather, As for God, let him "depart from us," and for the
Almighty, "we desire not the knowledge of his ways."

2. This fear is called "the beginning of wisdom," because then, and not till then, a man begins
to be truly spiritually wise; what wisdom is there where the fear of God is not? (Job 28:28;
Psa 111:10). The Word of God is the fountain of knowledge, into which a man will not with godly
reverence look, until he is endued with the fear of the Lord. Therefore it is rightly called
"the beginning of knowledge; but fools despise wisdom and instruction" (Prov 1:7). It is therefore
this fear of the Lord that makes a man wise for his soul, for life, and for another world.
It is this that teacheth him how he should do to escape those spiritual and eternal ruins that
the fool is overtaken with, and swallowed up of for ever. A man void of this fear of God, wherever
he is wise, or in whatever he excels, yet about the matters of his soul, there is none more
foolish than himself; for through the want of the fear of the Lord, he leaves the best things
at sixes and sevens, and only pursueth with all his heart those that will leave him in the
snare when he dies.

3. This fear of the Lord is to hate evil. To hate sin and vanity. Sin and vanity, they are
the sweet morsels of the fool, and such which the carnal appetite of the flesh runs after;
and it is only the virtue that is in the fear of the Lord that maketh the sinner have an antipathy
against it (Job 20:12). "By the fear of the Lord men depart from evil" (Prov 16:6). That is,
men shun, separate themselves from, and eschew it in its appearances. Wherefore it is plain
that those that love evil, are not possessed with the fear of God.

There is a generation that will pursue evil, that will take it in, nourish it, lay it up in
their hearts, hide it, and plead for it, and rejoice to do it. These cannot have in them the
fear of the Lord, for that is to hate it, and to make men depart from it: where the fear of
God and sin is, it will be with the soul, as it was with Israel when Omri and Tibni strove
to reign among them both at once, one of them must be put to death, they cannot live together
(see 1 Kings 16): sin must down, for the fear of the Lord begetteth in the soul a hatred against
it, an abhorrence of it, therefore sin must die, that is, as to the affections and lusts of
it; for as Solomon says in another case, "where no wood is, the fire goeth out." So we may
say, where there is a hatred of sin, and where men depart from it, there it loseth much of
its power, waxeth feeble, and decayeth. Therefore Solomon saith again, "Fear the Lord, and
depart from evil" (Prov 3:7). As who should say, Fear the Lord, and it will follow that you
shall depart from evil: departing from evil is a natural consequence, a proper effect of the
fear of the Lord where it is. By the fear of the Lord men depart from evil, that is, in their
judgment, will, mind, and affections. Not that by the fear of the Lord sin is annihilated,
or has lost its being in the soul; there still will those Canaanites be, but they are hated,
loathed, abominated, fought against, prayed against, watched against, striven against, and
mortified by the soul (Rom 7).

4. This fear is called a fountain of life--"The fear of the Lord is a fountain of life, to
depart from the snares of death" (Prov 14:27). It is a fountain, or spring, which so continually
supplieth the soul with variety of considerations of sin, of God, of death, and life eternal,
as to keep the soul in continual exercise of virtue and in holy contemplation. It is a fountain
of life; every operation thereof, every act and exercise thereof, hath a true and natural tendency
to spiritual and eternal felicity. Wherefore the wise man saith in another place, "The fear
of the Lord tendeth to life, and he that hath it shall abide satisfied; he shall not be visited
with evil" (Prov 19:23). It tendeth to life; even as of nature, everything hath a tendency
to that which is most natural to itself; the fire to burn, the water to wet, the stone to fall,
the sun to shine, sin to defile, &c. Thus I say, the fear of the Lord tendeth to life; the
nature of it is to put the soul upon fearing of God, of closing with Christ, and of walking
humbly before him. "It is a fountain of life, to depart from the snares of death." What are
the snares of death, but sin, the wiles of the devil, &c. From which the fear of God hath a
natural tendency to deliver thee, and to keep thee in the way that tendeth to life.

5. This fear of the Lord, it is called "the instruction of wisdom" (Prov 15:33). You heard
before that it is the beginning of wisdom, but here you find it called the instruction of wisdom;
for indeed it is not only that which makes a man begin to be wise, but to improve, and make
advantage of all those helps and means to life, which God hath afforded to that end; that is,
both to his own, and his neighbour's salvation also. It is the instruction of wisdom; it will
make a man capable to use all his natural parts, all his natural wisdom to God's glory, and
his own good. There lieth, even in many natural things, that, into which if we were instructed,
would yield us a great deal of help to the understanding of spiritual matters; "For in wisdom
has God made all the world"; nor is there anything that God has made, whether in heaven above,
or on earth beneath, but there is couched some spiritual mystery in it. The which men matter
no more than they do the ground they tread on, or than the stones that are under their feet,
and all because they have not this fear of the Lord; for had they that, that would teach them
to think, even from that knowledge of God, that hath by the fear of him put into their hearts,
that he being so great and so good, there must needs be abundance of wisdom in the things he
hath made: that fear would also endeavour to find out what that wisdom is; yea, and give to
the soul the instruction of it. In that it is called the instruction of wisdom, it intimates
to us that its tendency is to keep all even, and in good order in the soul. When Job perceived
that his friends did not deal with him in an even spirit and orderly manner, he said that they
forsook "the fear of the Almighty" (Job 6:14). For this fear keeps a man even in his words
and judgment of things. It may be compared to the ballast of the ship, and to the poise of
the balance of the scales; it keeps all even, and also makes us steer our course right with
respect to the things that pertain to God and man.

What this fear of God flows from.

SECOND. I come now to the second thing, to wit, to show you what this fear of God flows from.

First. This fear, this grace of fear, this son-like fear of God, it flows from the distinguishing
love of God to his elect. "I will be their God," saith he, "and I will put my fear in their
hearts." None other obtain it but those that are enclosed and bound up in that bundle. Therefore
they, in the same place, are said to be those that are wrapt up in the eternal or everlasting
covenant of God, and so designed to be the people that should be blessed with this fear. (Jer
32:38-40). This covenant declares unto men that God hath, in his heart, distinguishing love
for some of the children of men; for he saith he will be their God, that he will not leave
them, nor yet suffer them to depart, to wit, finally, from him. Into these men's hearts he
doth put his fear, this blessed grace, and this rare and effectual sign of his love, and of
their eternal salvation.

Second. This fear flows from a new heart. This fear is not in men by nature; the fear of devils
they may have, as also an ungodly fear of God; but this fear is not in any but where there
dwelleth a new heart, another fruit and effect of this everlasting covenant, and of this distinguishing
love of God. "A new heart also will I give them"; a new heart, what a one is that? why, the
same prophet saith in another place, "A heart to fear me," a circumcised one, a sanctified
one (Jer 32:39; Eze 11:19, 36:26). So then, until a man receive a heart from God, a heart from
heaven, a new heart, he has not this fear of God in him. New wine must not be put into old
bottles, lest the one, to wit, the bottles, mar the wine, or the wine the bottles; but new
wine must have new bottles, and then both shall be preserved (Matt 9:17). This fear of God
must not be, cannot be found in old hearts; old hearts are not bottles out of which this fear
of God proceeds, but it is from an honest and good heart, from a new one, from such an one
that is also an effect of the everlasting covenant, and love of God to men.

" I will give them one heart" to fear me; there must in all actions be heart, and without heart
no action is good, nor can there be faith, love, or fear, from every kind of heart. These must
flow from such an one, whose nature is to produce, and bring forth such fruit. Do men gather
grapes of thorns, or figs of thistles? so from a corrupt heart there cannot proceed such fruit
as the fear of God, as to believe in God, and love God (Luke 6:43-45). The heart naturally
is deceitful above all things, and desperately wicked; how then should there flow from such
an one the fear of God? It cannot be. He, therefore, that hath not received at the hands of
God a new heart, cannot fear the Lord.

Third. This fear of God flows from an impression, a sound impression, that the Word of God
maketh on our souls; for without an impress of the Word, there is no fear of God. Hence it
is said that God gave to Israel good laws, statutes, and judgments, that they might learn them,
and in learning them, learn to fear the Lord their God. Therefore, saith God, in another place,
"Gather the people together, men, and women, and children, and thy stranger that is within
thy gates, that they may hear, and that they may learn and fear the Lord your God" (Deut 6:1,2,
31:12). For as a man drinketh good doctrine into his soul, so he feareth God. If he drinks
it in much, he feareth him greatly; if he drinketh it in but little, he feareth him but little;
if he drinketh it not in at all, he feareth him not at all. This, therefore, teacheth us how
to judge who feareth the Lord; they are those that learn, and that stand in awe of the Word.
Those that have by the holy Word of God the very form of itself engraven upon the face of their
souls, they fear God (Rom 6:17).[15]

But, on the contrary, those that do not love good doctrine, that give not place to the wholesome
truths of the God of heaven, revealed in his Testament, to take place in their souls, but rather
despise it, and the true possessors of it, they fear not God. For, as I said before, this fear
of God, it flows from a sound impression that the Word of God maketh upon the soul; and therefore,

Fourth. This godly fear floweth from faith; for where the Word maketh a sound impression on
the soul, by that impression is faith begotten, whence also this fear doth flow. Therefore
right hearing of the Word is called "the hearing of faith" (Gal 3:2). (Heb 11:7). The Word,
the warning that he had from God of things not seen as yet, wrought, through faith therein,
that fear of God in his heart that made him prepare against unseen dangers, and that he might
be an inheritor of unseen happiness. Where, therefore, there is not faith in the Word of God,
there can be none of this fear; and where the Word doth not make sound impression on the soul,
there can be none of this faith. So that as vices hang together, and have the links of a chain,
dependence one upon another, even so the graces of the Spirit also are the fruits of one another,
and have such dependence on each other, that the one cannot be without the other. No faith,
no fear of God; devil's faith, devil's fear; saint's faith, saint's fear.

Fifth. This godly fear also floweth from sound repentance for and from sin; godly sorrow worketh
repentance, and godly repentance produceth this fear--"For behold," says Paul, "this self-same
thing, that ye sorrowed after a godly sort, what carefulness it wrought in you! yea, what clearing
of yourselves! yea, what indignation! yea, what fear!" (2 Cor 7:10,11). Repentance is the effect
of sorrow, and sorrow is the effect of smart, and smart the effect of faith. Now, therefore,
fear must needs be an effect of, and flow from repentance. Sinner, do not deceive thyself;
if thou art a stranger to sound repentance, which standeth in sorrow and shame before God for
sin, as also in turning from it, thou hast no fear of God; I mean none of this godly fear;
for that is the fruit of, and floweth from, sound repentance.

Sixth. This godly fear also flows from a sense of the love and kindness of God to the soul.
"There is mercy with thee"; this the soul hath sense of, and hope in, and therefore feareth
God. Indeed nothing can lay a stronger obligation upon the heart to fear God, than sense of,
or hope in mercy (Jer 33:8,9). This begetteth true tenderness of heart, true godly softness
of spirit; this truly endeareth the affections to God; and in this true tenderness, softness,
and endearedness of affection to God, lieth the very essence of this fear of the Lord, as is
manifest by the fruit of this fear when we shall come to speak of it.

Seventh. This fear of God flows from a due consideration of the judgments of God that are to
be executed in the world; yea, upon professors too. Yea further, God's people themselves, I
mean as to themselves, have such a consideration of his judgments towards them, as to produce
this godly fear. When God's judgments are in the earth, they effect the fear of his name, in
the hearts of his own people--"My flesh trembleth for fear of thee, and I am," said David,
"afraid of thy judgments" (Psa 119:120). When God smote Uzzah, David was afraid of God that
day (1 Chron 13:12). Indeed, many regard not the works of the Lord, nor take notice of the
operation of his hands, and such cannot fear the Lord. But others observe and regard, and wisely
consider of his doings, and of the judgments that he executeth, and that makes them fear the
Lord. This God himself suggesteth as a means to make us fear him. Hence he commands the false
prophet to be stoned, "that all Israel might hear and fear." Hence also he commanded that the
rebellious son should be stoned, "that all Israel might hear and fear." A false witness was
also to have the same judgment of God executed upon him, "that all Israel might hear and fear."
The man also that did ought presumptuously was to die, "that all Israel might hear and fear"
(Deut 13:11, 21:21, 17:13, 19:20). There is a natural tendency in judgments, as judgments,
to beget a fear of God in the heart of man, as man; but when the observation of the judgment
of God is made by him that hath a principle of true grace in his soul, that observation being
made, I say, by a gracious heart, produceth a fear of God in the soul of its own nature, to
wit, a gracious or godly fear of God.

Eighth. This godly fear also flows from a godly remembrance of our former distresses, when
we were distressed with our first fears; for though our first fears were begotten in us by
the Spirit's working as a spirit of bondage, and so are not always to be entertained as such,
yet even that fear leaveth in us, and upon our spirits, that sense and relish of our first
awakenings and dread, as also occasioneth and produceth this godly fear. "Take heed," says
God, "and keep thy soul diligently, lest thou forget the things which thine eyes have seen,
and lest they depart from thy heart all the days of thy life, but teach them thy sons, and
thy son's sons." But what were the things that their eyes had seen, that would so damnify them
should they be forgotten? (Deut 4:9-11). The remembrance of what we saw, felt, feared, and
trembled under the sense of, when our first fears were upon us, is that which will produce
in our hearts this godly filial fear.

Ninth. This godly fear flows from our receiving of an answer of prayer, when we supplicated
for mercy at the hand of God. That they may fear thee all the days of their life, that they
live in the land which thou gavest unto our fathers" (1 Kings 8:37-40).

Tenth. This grace of fear also flows from a blessed conviction of the all-seeing eye of God;
that is, from a belief that he certainly knoweth the heart, and seeth every one of the turnings
and returnings thereof; this is intimated in the text last mentioned--"Whose heart thou knowest,
that they may fear thee," to wit, so many of them as be, or shall be convinced of this. Indeed,
without this conviction, this godly fear cannot be in us; the want of this conviction made
the Pharisees such hypocrites--"Ye are they," said Christ, "which justify yourselves before
men, but God knoweth your hearts" (Luke 16:15). The Pharisees, I say, were not aware of this;
therefore they so much preferred themselves before those that by far were better than themselves,
and it is for want of this conviction that men go on in such secret sins as they do, so much
without fear either of God or his judgments.[16]

Eleventh. This grace of fear also flows from a sense of the impartial judgment of God upon
men according to their works. This also is manifest from the text mentioned above. (1 Peter
1:17). He that hath godly conviction of this fear of God, will fear before him; by which fear
their hearts are poised, and works directed with trembling, according to the will of God. Thus
you see what a weighty and great grace this grace of the holy fear of God is, and how all the
graces of the Holy Ghost yield mutually their help and strength to the nourishment and life
of it; and also how it flows from them all, and hath a dependence upon every one of them for
its due working in the heart of him that hath it. And thus much to show you from whence it
flows. And now I shall come to the third thing, to wit, to show you

What flows from this godly fear.

THIRD. Having showed you what godly fear flows from, I come now, I say, to show you what proceedeth
or flows from this godly fear of God, where it is seated in the heart of man. And,

First. There flows from this godly fear a godly reverence of God. "He is great," said David,
"and greatly to be feared in the assembly of his saints." God, as I have already showed you,
is the proper object of godly fear; it is his person and majesty that this fear always causeth
the eye of the soul to be upon. "Behold," saith David, "as the eyes of servants look unto the
hand of their masters, and as the eyes of a maiden unto the hand of her mistress; so our eyes
wait upon the Lord our God, until that he have mercy upon us" (Psa 123:2). Nothing aweth the
soul that feareth God so much as doth the glorious majesty of God. His person is above all
things feared by them; "I fear God," said Joseph (Gen 42:18). That is, more than any other;
I stand in awe of him, he is my dread, he is my fear, I do all mine actions as in his presence,
as in his sight; I reverence his holy and glorious majesty, doing all things as with fear and
trembling before him. This fear makes them have also a very great reverence of his Word; for
that also, I told you, was the rule of their fear. "Princes," said David, "persecuted me without
a cause, but my heart standeth in awe," in fear, "of thy word." This grace of fear, therefore,
from it flows reverence of the words of God; of all laws, that man feareth the word; and no
law that is not agreeing therewith (Psa 119:116). There flows from this godly fear tenderness
of God's glory. This fear, I say, will cause a man to afflict his soul, when he seeth that
by professors dishonour is brought to the name of God and to his Word. Who would not fear thee,
said Jeremiah, O king of nations, for to thee doth it appertain? He speaks it as being affected
with that dishonour, that by the body of the Jews was continually brought to his name, his
Word, and ways; he also speaks it of a hearty wish that they once would be otherwise minded.
The same saying in effect hath also John in the Revelation--"Who shall not fear thee, O Lord,"
said he, "and glorify thy name?" (Rev 15:4); clearly concluding that godly fear produceth a
godly tenderness of God's glory in the world, for that appertaineth unto him; that is, it is
due unto him, it is a debt which we owe unto him. "Give unto the Lord," said David, "the glory
due unto his name." Now if there be begotten in the heart of the godly, by this grace of fear,
a godly tenderness of the glory of God, then it follows of consequence, that where they that
have this fear of God do see his glory diminished by the wickedness of the children of men,
there they are grieved and deeply distressed. "Rivers of waters," said David, "run down mine
eyes, because they keep not thy law" (Psa 119:136). Let met give you for this these following
instances--

How was David provoked when Goliath defied the God of Israel (1 Sam 17:23-29,45,46). Also,
when others reproached God, he tells us that that reproach was even as "a sword in his bones"
(Psa 42:10). How was Hezekiah afflicted when Rabshakeh railed upon his God (Isa 37). David
also, for the love that he had to the glory of God's word, ran the hazard and reproach "of
all the mighty people" (Psa 119:151, 89:50). How tender of the glory of God was Eli, Daniel,
and the three children in their day. Eli died with fear and trembling of heart when he heard
that "the ark of God was taken" (1 Sam 4:14-18). Daniel ran the danger of the lions' mouths,
for the tender love that he had to the word and worship of God (Dan 6:10-16). The three children
ran the hazard of a burning fiery furnace, rather than they would dare to dishonour the way
of their God (Dan 3:13,16,20). This therefore is one of the fruits of this godly fear, to wit,
a reverence of his name and tenderness of his glory.

Second. There flows from this godly fear, watchfulness. As it is said of Solomon's servants,
they "watched about his bed, because of fear in the night," so it may be said of them that
have this godly fear--it makes them a watchful people. It makes them watch their hearts, and
take heed to keep them with all diligence, lest they should, by one or another of its flights,
lead them to do that which in itself is wicked (Prov 4:23; Heb 12:15). It makes them watch,
lest some temptation from hell should enter into their heart to the destroying of them (1 Peter
5:8). It makes them watch their mouths, and keep them also, at sometimes, as with a bit and
bridle, that they offend not with their tongue, knowing that the tongue is apt, being an evil
member, soon to catch the fire of hell, to the defiling of the whole body (James 3:2-7). It
makes them watch over their ways, look well to their goings, and to make straight steps for
their feet (Psa 39:1; Heb 12:13). Thus this godly fear puts the soul upon its watch, lest from
the heart within, or from the devil without, or from the world, or some other temptation, something
should surprise and overtake the child of God to defile him, or to cause him to defile the
ways of God, and so offend the saints, open the mouths of men, and cause the enemy to speak
reproachfully of religion.

Third. There flows from this fear a holy provocation to a reverential converse with saints
in their religious and godly assemblies, for their further progress in the faith and way of
holiness. "Then they that feared the Lord spake often one to another." Spake, that is, of God,
and his holy and glorious name, kingdom, and works, for their mutual edification; "a book of
remembrance was written before him for them that feared the Lord, and that thought upon his
name" (Mal 3:16). The fear of the Lord in the heart provoketh to this in all its acts, not
only of necessity, but of nature: it is the natural effect of this godly fear, to exercise
the church in the contemplation of God, together and apart. All fear, good and bad, hath a
natural propenseness in it to incline the heart to contemplate upon the object of fear, and
though a man should labour to take off his thoughts from the object of his fear, whether that
object was men, hell, devils, &c., yet do what he could the next time his fear had any act
in it, it would return again to its object. The enemy were able to warm to their work and made
an angry charge due to the missiles being exhausted.Thanks largely to their great height and the
long spears which they carried they were able to thrust the spears from some considerable distance
at our men who were struggling about in the marsh. Whilst this was all going on a strong column
of Batavi swam across from the dam which had been built out in the
Rhine.

This then started a panic and our line was driven back untill the legions started fighting
with us equalizing matters by stopping the enemies wild and angry charge. A Batavian deserter
swore that he could take the enemy from the rear as the ground was solid there and the Cugemi
who were keeping watch were off their guard. Two squadrons of horses were sent with the Batavian
deserter and successfully outflanked the enemy. This made the legions redouble their efforts
and the Germans were conquered and subsequently fled to the Rhine. Had the Roman fleet arrived in time
it may well of brought the war to an end however even the cavalry were prevented from pursuing
their enemy due to heavy rainfall just before night fell.
The next day the Fourteenth legion were sent to join Annius Gallus in upper Germany and their
place in Ceralis' army was replaced by the tenth from Spain. Civilis' was reinforced by the Chauci
but he felt that he was not strong enough to hold onto the Batavian
capital, so he took whatever was portable and burnt everything else
and fell back retiring to the island.

This was a clever move as he knew that the Romans did not have enough ships to build a bridge
and that they were unable to get across through any other way,he also destroyed the mole built by
Druscus Germanicus to divert water into a canal.As the river bed of the Rhine here falls towards
gaul his removal of obstacles allowed it free course.The channel between the Germans and the island
became so small as a result that there was now no barrier between them. Tutor and Classicus
also crossed the Rhine with a hundred and thirteen town councillors from Trier.One of these men
was Alpinius Montanus who had been sent by Antonius Primus into Gaul, he was accompanied by
his brother. The others were also busy rallying reinforcements among these adventurous tribes
by offering gifts and compassion.
The war was far from over, by dividing his forces Civilis made a simultaneous attack on all
of the four Roman garrisons.These being the tenth at Arenacum, the second at Batavodurum, the auxiliary
horse and foot at Grinnes and the auxiliary horse and foot at Vada.Civilis,Verax,Classicus
and Tutor each led one of the attacking parties.

 (Neh 5:15).[17]

Here not was self-denial; he would not do as they did that went before him, neither himself,
nor should his servants; but what was it that put him upon these acts of self-denial? The answer
is, the fear of God: "but so did not I, because of the fear of God."

Now, whether by the fear of God in this place be meant his Word, or the grace of fear in his
heart, may perhaps be a scruple to some, but in my judgment the text must have respect to the
latter, to wit, to the grace of fear, for without that being indeed in the heart, the word
will not produce that good self-denial in us, that here you find this good man to live in the
daily exercise of. The fear of God, therefore, that was the cause of his self-denial, was this
grace of fear in his heart. This made him to be, as was said before, tender of the honour of
God, and of the salvation of his brother: yea, so tender, that rather than he would give an
occasion to the weak to stumble, or be offended, he would even deny himself of that which others
never sticked to do. Paul also, through the sanctifying operations of this fear of God in his
heart, did deny himself even of lawful things, for the profit and commodity of his brother--"I
will eat no flesh while the world standeth, lest I make my brother to offend"; that is, if
his eating of it would make his brother to offend (1 Cor 8:13).

Men that have not this fear of God in them, will not, cannot deny themselves--of love to God,
and the good of the weak, who are subject to stumble at indifferent things--but where this
grace of fear is, there follows self-denial; there men are tender of offending; and count that
it far better becomes their profession to be of a self-denying, condescending conversation
and temper, than to stand sturdily to their own liberty in things inexpedient, whoever is offended
thereat. This grace of fear, therefore, is a very excellent thing, because it yieldeth such
excellent fruit as this. "Your new life will have really just begun, when you are in the United
States."
"Senor, Tomaso will for sure bring my mother out from the cave? I fear-- Surely he was happy to
close her in there."
"For the Governor I will leave a note. Within three days your mother shall be free, and during
this time a little meditation on her own will be good for her."

Sturges pulled Pilar from her horse and put her on his when night fell, and against his shoulder
laid her head. "Sleep," he told her,"You are tired out."
She threw her hand over his shoulder,got comfortable, and was sleeping
in no time, unaware of the black forest and the ongoing shrieks of
wild animals. The strength in the arm of Sturges would have inspired
assurance even in the fact that it had played less a part in her rescue.


They wanted this singleness of heart in their fasting, and in their eating, in their mourning,
and in their drinking; they had double hearts in what they did. They did not as the apostle
bids; "whether ye eat or drink, or whatsoever ye do, do all to the glory of God." Few parents are
getting old gouty as welcome as I am, eh, Ulswater? "
"I dare to ask for me to congratulate Mr Westborough is?" said the young aristocrat, advancing to Lady
Flora, and pointing to his seat beside her, entered into that conversation in whispers as significant
of courtship. But there was little in the way Lady Flora, through which an experienced eye
would have detected the bride to choose: no sudden flush or shot, but look askance, no hand shake,
no confusion indistinct voice, struggling with unanalyzed emotions. No: all was quiet, cold, indifferent,
cheek stain did not change tone, and his words, clear and collected, appears to contradict
what the rumors of her fiancé low, so it may be supposed to imply. But even in his conduct,
was something that had he been less Lady Westborough pleased he was with the external and surface
form, would have alarmed her daughter. A cloud, dark and somber, sat on her forehead and lip
trembled alternatively something like contempt, or compressed with a kind of repressed passion. Even
in the joy that shone in his eyes, when he alluded to his marriage, had an expression that could
almost have been called fierce, and no doubt was as little as the true burning orthodox "gentle
lover," as Lady Flora sad and half unconscious coldness seemed wary of the passion of the Maiden
Blush. "
"You have to spend much time in which you would expect, my lord," said Lady Westborough, who,
like her beauty, was a little jealous of the respect due to the beauty
of his daughter.

"It's true." Ulswater The Lord said, looking toward the opposite glass, and smooth the right eyebrow
with his forefinger, "it is true, but I could not help it. I had
a great deal of business to do with my men: I will I put in a new
maneuver. Do you know, my lord, [To the] Marquis, I think it is very
likely that soldiers may have some work on this month ----? " This was charity to
the distressed, even to the distressed for the Lord's sake.

Had not Obadiah served the Lord, yea, had he not greatly feared him, he would not have been
able to do this thing, especially as the case then stood with him, and also with the church
at that time, for then Jezebel sought to slay all that indeed feared the Lord; yea, and the
persecution prevailed so much at that time, that even Elijah himself thought that she had killed
all but him. But now, even now, the fear of God in this good man's heart put forth itself into
acts of mercy though attended with so imminent danger. See here, therefore, that the fear of
God will put forth itself in the heart where God hath put it, even to show kindness, and to
have compassion upon the distressed servants of God, even under Jezebel's nose; for Obadiah
dwelt in Ahab's house, and Jezebel was Ahab's wife, and a horrible persecutor, as was said
before: yet Obadiah will show mercy to the poor because he feared God, yea, he will venture
her displeasure, his place, and neck, and all, but he will be merciful to his brethren in distress.
Cornelius, also, being a man possessed with this fear of God, became a very free-hearted and
open-handed man to the poor--"He feared God, and gave much alms to the people." Indeed this
fear, this godly fear of God, it is a universal grace; it will stir up the soul unto all good
duties. It is a fruitful grace; from it, where it is, floweth abundance of excellent virtues;
nor without it can there be anything good, or done well, that is done. But,

Eighth. There flows from this fear of God hearty, fervent, and constant prayer. This also is
seen in Cornelius, that devout man. He feared God; and what then? why, he gave much alms to
the people, "and prayed to God alway" (Acts 10:1,2).

Did I say that hearty, fervent, and constant prayer flowed from this fear of God? I will add,
that if the whole duty, and the continuation of it, be not managed with this fear of God, it
profiteth nothing at all. It is said of our Lord Jesus Christ himself, "He was heard in that
he feared." He prayed, then, because he feared, because he feared God, and therefore was his
prayer accepted of him, even because he feared--"He was heard in that he feared" (Heb 5:7).
This godly fear is so essential to right prayer, and right prayer is such an inseparable effect
and fruit of this fear, that you must have both or none; he that prayeth not feareth not God,
yea, he that prayeth not fervently and frequently feareth him not; and so he that feareth him
not cannot pray; for if prayer be the effect of this fear of God, then without this fear, prayer,
fervent prayer, ceaseth. How can they pray or make conscience of the duty that fear not God?
O prayerless man, thou fearest not God! Thou wouldest not live so like a swine or a dog in
the world as thou dost, if thou fearest the Lord.

Ninth. There floweth from this fear of God a readiness or willingness, at God's call, to give
up our best enjoyments to his disposal. This is evident in Abraham, who at God's call, without
delay, rose early in the morning to offer up his only and well-beloved Isaac a burnt-offering
in the place where God should appoint him. It was a rare thing that Abraham did; and had he
not had this rare grace, this fear of God, he would not, he could not have done to God's liking
so wonderful a thing. It is true the Holy Ghost also makes this service of Abraham to be the
fruit of his faith--"By faith Abraham offered up Isaac, and he that had received the promises
offered up his only-begotten son" (Heb 11; James 2). Aye, and without doubt love unto God,
in Abraham, was not wanting in this his service, nor was this grace of fear; nay, in the story
where it is recorded. There it is chiefly accounted for the fruit of his godly fear, and that
by an angel from heaven--"And the angel called out of heaven, and said, Abraham, Abraham. And
he said, Here am I. And he said, Lay not thine hand upon the lad, neither do thou anything
unto him, for now I know that thou fearest God, seeing thou hast not withheld thy son, thine
only son, from me" (Gen 22:11,12). Now I know it; now, now thou hast offered up thine only
Isaac, thine all, at the bidding of thy God. Now I know it. The fear of God is not presently
discerned in the heart and life of a man. Abraham had long before this done many a holy duty,
and showed much willingness of heart to observe and do the will of God; yet you find not, as
I remember, that he had this testimony from heaven that he feared God till now; but now he
has it, now he has it from heaven. "Now I know that thou fearest God." Many duties may be done--though
I do not say that Abraham did them--without the fear of God; but when a man shall not stick
at, or withhold, his darling from God, when called upon by God to offer it up unto him, that
declareth, yea, and gives conviction to angels, that now he feareth God.

Tenth. There floweth from this godly fear humility of mind. This is evident, because, when
the apostle cautions the Romans against the venom of spiritual pride, he directs them to the
exercise of this blessed grace of fear as its antidote. "Be not high-minded," saith he, "but
fear" (Rom 11:20). Pride, spiritual pride, which is here set forth by the word "high-minded,"
is a sin of a very high and damnable nature; it was the sin of the fallen angels, and is that
which causeth men to fall into the same condemnation--"Lest being lifted up with pride, he
fall into the condemnation of the devil." Pride, I say, it damns a professor with the damnation
of devils, with the damnation of hell, and therefore it is a deadly, deadly sin. Now against
this deadly sin is set the grace of humility; that comely garment, for so the apostle calls
it, saying, "be clothed with humility." But the question is now, how we should attain to, and
live in, the exercise of this blessed and comely grace? to which the apostle answers, Fear;
be afraid with godly fear, and thence will flow humility--"Be not high-minded, but fear." That
is, Fear, or be continually afraid and jealous of yourselves, and of your own naughty hearts,
also fear lest at some time or other the devil, your adversary, should have advantage of you.
Fear, lest by forgetting what you are by nature, you also forget the need that you have of
continual pardon, support, and supplies from the Spirit of grace, and so grow proud of your
own abilities, or of what you have received of God, and fall into the condemnation of the devil.
Fear, and that will make you little in your own eyes, keep you humble, put you upon crying
to God for protection, and upon lying at his foot for mercy; that will also make you have low
thoughts of your own parts, your own doings, and cause you to prefer your brother before yourself,
and so you will walk in humiliation, and be continually under the teachings of God, and under
his conduct in your way. The humble, God will teach--"The meek will he guide in judgment, the
meek will he teach his way." From this grace of fear then flows this excellent and comely thing,
humility; yea, it also is maintained by this fear. Fear takes off a man from trusting to himself,
it puts a man upon trying of all things, it puts a man upon desiring counsel and help from
heaven, it makes a man ready and willing to hear instruction, and makes a man walk lowly, softly,
and so securely in the way.

Eleventh. The latter part of the text is an explanation of the former: as if the psalmist had
said, They be the men that fear the Lord, even they that hope in his mercy; for true fear produceth
hope in God's mercy. And it is further manifest thus. Fear, true fear of God inclineth the
heart to a serious inquiry after that way of salvation which God himself hath prescribed; now
the way that God hath appointed, by the which the sinner is to obtain the salvation of his
soul, is his mercy as so and so set forth in the Word, and godly fear hath special regard to
the Word. To this way, therefore, the sinner with this godly fear submits his soul, rolls himself
upon it, and so is delivered from that death into which others, for want of this fear of God,
do headlong fall.

It is, as I also hinted before, the nature of godly fear to be very much putting the soul upon
the inquiry which is, and which is not, the thing approved of God, and accordingly to embrace
it or shun it. Now I say, this fear having put the soul upon a strict and serious inquiry after
the way of salvation, at last it finds it to be by the mercy of God in Christ; therefore this
fear putteth the soul upon hoping also in him for eternal life and blessedness; by which hope
he doth not only secure his soul, but becomes a portion of God's delight--"The Lord takes pleasure
in them that fear him, in them that hope in his mercy."

Besides, this godly fear carrieth in it self-evidence that the state of the sinner is happy,
because possessed with this happy grace. Therefore, as John saith, "We know we have passed
from death unto life, because we love the brethren" (1 John 3:14). So here, "The Lord taketh
pleasure in them that fear him, in them that hope in his mercy." If I fear God, and if my fearing
of him is a thing in which he taketh such pleasure, then may I boldly venture to roll myself
for eternal life into the bosom of his mercy, which is Christ. This fear also produceth hope;
if therefore, poor sinner, thou knowest thyself to be one that is possessed with this fear
of God, suffer thyself to be persuaded therefore to hope in the mercy of God for salvation,
for the Lord takes pleasure in thee. And it delights him to see thee hope in his mercy.

Twelfth. De Bry, a writer of considerable eminence, and a bookseller in Frankfurt-on-the-Maine, being
in England in 1587, was led by our famous compiler, Hakluyt, to start the publication of an
illustrated series of travel, which After his death, was continued by his sons. Among bibliographers,
this compilation is well known as the Great Library Travel & Little. The volumes comprising
the "travel little, in relation only to the east, are entitled Orientalis Indiae, but were issued
in parts, and its publication period lasted from 1598-1624. The walghvogel merely mentioned,
but an engraving provides a fantastic representation of the facts of another Dutch team on the
island. Two suitors, neatly dressed, are represented mounted on a tortoise, while ten, sitting
on a turtle shell, are holding a symposium tail. Three birds appear in this dish, the letter says the
press are walghvogels, but our eyes tell us that cassowaries are then called emeus. Clearly,
then, that De Bry had not at that time, you see a picture or a description of the dodo, if
I had, therefore, would not have mistaken the cassowary.

On the other hand, the explanatory letter-press print, walghvogel indicated that a life had
been taken to Holland, which shows that he had mistakenly confused the two birds, a cassowary
of life, even at that early date, had fact been transported there. But although there is little
doubt that the dodos one or more of life were brought to Europe later, the truth is that such
an event did not occur until after L'Ecluse wrote in 1605. About the same time that De Bry published
the fourth part of Indiae Orientalis, the Dutch seemed to work contains an account of travel
throughout the eight ships, and after De Bry in his fifth, which came later in the same year
was able to give an accurate representation of the dodo, and a full account of the voyages of
the entire squad. We have been more precise on this part of our subject that might seem necessary,
but being so, we must file an inequality that has been an obstacle for almost all previous
writers on the dodo.
L'Ecluse, professor of botany at Leiden, one of the great naturalists of his time, published his
Exoticorum in 1605.

It gives a recorded image and the description of the dodo, which was of people who had sailed in the
fleet of De Warwijk, stating that he had seen only one leg of the bird - a sure proof that
no living specimen was at that time, has brought to the Netherlands.
Overlooking the island visits four former Dutch sailors, who all describe the dodo under different
names, we reach the picturesque old traveler, Sir Thomas Herbert, who played in Mauritius in 1627.
 The sum of all which is that which was mentioned
before; to wit, "to work out our own salvation with fear and trembling." For none of these
things can be conscientiously done, but by and with the help of this blessed grace of fear.

Thirteenth. There flows from this fear, this godly fear, a great delight in the holy commands
of God, that is, a delight to be conformable unto them. "Blessed is the man that feareth the
Lord, that delighteth greatly in his commandments" (Psa 112:1). This confirmeth that which
was said before, to wit, that this fear provoketh to a holy and reverent use of the means;
for that cannot be, when there is not an holy, yea, a great delight in the commandments. Wherefore
this fear maketh the sinner to abhor that which is sin, because that is contrary to the object
of his delight. A man cannot delight himself at the same time in things directly opposite one
to another, as sin and the holy commandment is; therefore Christ saith of the servant, he cannot
love God and mammon--"Ye cannot serve God and mammon." If he cleaves to the one, he must hate
and despise the other; there cannot at the same time be service to both, because that themselves
are at enmity one with the other. So is sin and the commandment. Therefore if a man delighteth
himself in the commandment, he hateth that which is opposite, which is sin: how much more when
he greatly delighteth in the commandment? Now, this holy fear of God it taketh the heart and
affections from sin, and setteth them upon the holy commandment. Therefore such a man is rightly
esteemed blessed. For no profession makes a man blessed but that which is accompanied with
an alienation of the heart from sin, nor doth anything do that when this holy fear is wanting.
It is from this fear then, that love to, and delight in, the holy commandment floweth, and
so by that the sinner is kept from those falls and dangers of miscarrying that other professors
are so subject to: he greatly delights in the commandment.

Fourteenth. Lastly, There floweth from this fear of God, enlargement of heart. "Then thou shalt
see, and flow together, and thine heart shall fear, and be enlarged" (Isa 60:5). "Thine heart
shall fear, and be enlarged," enlarged to God-ward, enlarged to his ways, enlarged to his holy
people, enlarged in love after the salvation of others. Indeed when this fear of God is wanting,
though the profession be never so famous, the heart is shut up and straitened, and nothing
is done in that princely free spirit which is called "the spirit of the fear of the Lord" (Psa
51:12; Isa 11:2). But with grudging, legally, or with desire of vain-glory, this enlargedness
of heart is wanting, for that flows from this fear of the Lord.

Thus have I showed you both what this fear of God is, what it flows from, and also what doth
flow from it. I come now to show you some

OF THE PRIVILEGES OF THEM THAT THUS DO FEAR THE LORD.

Having thus briefly handled in particular thus far this fear of God, I shall now show you certain
of the excellent privileges of them that fear the Lord, not that they are not privileges that
have been already mentioned; for what greater privileges than to have this fear producing in
the soul such excellent things so necessary for us for good, both with reference to this world,
and that which is to come? But because those fourteen above named do rather flow from this
grace of fear where it is, than from a promise to the person that hath it, therefore I have
chosen rather to discourse of them as the fruits and effects of fear, than otherwise. Now,
besides all these, there is entailed by promise to the man that hath this fear many other blessed
privileges, the which I shall now in a brief way lay open unto you.

First Privilege, then. That man that feareth the Lord, has a grant and a license "to trust
in the Lord," with an affirmation that he is their help, and their shield--"Ye that fear the
Lord, trust in the Lord; he is their help and their shield" (Psa 115:11). Now what a privilege
is this! an exhortation in general to sinners, as sinners, to trust in him, is a privilege
great and glorious; but for a man to be singled out from his neighbours, for a man to be spoken
to from heaven, as it were by name, and to be told that God hath given him a license, a special
and peculiar grant to trust in him, this is abundantly more; and yet this is the grant that
God hath given that man! He hath, I say, a license to do it--a license indicted by the Holy
Ghost, and left upon record for those to be born that shall fear the Lord, to trust in him.
And not only so, but as the text affirmeth, "he is their help and their shield." Their help
under all their weaknesses and infirmities, and a shield to defend them against all the assaults
of the devil and this world. My plan was to shoot three of them and hang them like thieves to
scare the others that came to the corn; and from then on, as long as they hung, no bird came.
When the corn ripened, I made a scythe out of the swords of the ship, and got in my crop.

Very few would think about the cost at which bread was produced.

When I got the corn home, I had to crush it, part of the grain from the chaff and store it.
Then came the need to grind it with a mill, chain it with sleeves, and to make bread with yeast.

My bread was made anyway without tools. No one can deny that I earned
it by my own sweat.  
The next thing to make was a sieve to take
the grain apart from the husks. (Psa 25:12). Now, to be taught
of God, what like it? yea, what like to be taught in the way that thou shalt choose? Thou hast
chosen the way to life, God's way; but perhaps thy ignorance about it is so great, and those
that tempt thee to turn aside so many and so subtle, that they seem to outwit thee and confound
thee with their guile. Well, but the Lord whom thou fearest will not leave thee to thy ignorance,
nor yet to thine enemies' power or subtlety, but will take it upon himself to be thy teacher
and thy guide, and that in the way that thou hast chosen. Hear, then, and behold thy privilege,
O thou that fearest the Lord; and whoever wanders, turns aside, and swerveth from the way of
salvation, whoever is benighted, and lost in the midst of darkness, thou shalt find the way
to the heaven and the glory that thou hast chosen.

Further, He doth not only say, that he will teach them the way, for that must of necessity
be supplied, but he says also that he will teach such in it--"Him shall he teach in the way
that he shall choose." This argueth that, as thou shalt know, so the way shall be made, by
the communion that thou shalt have with God therein, sweet and pleasant to thee. For this text
promiseth unto the man that feareth the Lord, the presence, company, and discovery of the mind
of God, while he is going in the way that he hath chosen. It is said of the good scribe, that
he is instructed unto, as well as into, the way of the kingdom of God (Matt 13:52). Instructed
unto; that is, he hath the heart and mind of God still discovered to him in the way that he
hath chosen, even all the way from this world to that which is to come, even until he shall
come to the very gate and door of heaven. What the disciples said was the effect of the presence
of Christ, to wit, "that their hearts did burn within them while he talked to them by the way,"
shall be also fulfilled in thee, he will meet with thee in the way, talk with thee in the way;
he will teach thee in the way that thou shalt choose (Luke 24:32).

Third Privilege. Dost thou fear the Lord? he will open his secret unto thee, even that which
he hath hid and keeps close from all the world, to wit, the secret of his covenant and of thy
concern therein--"The secret of the Lord is with them that fear him, and he will shew them
his covenant" (Psa 25:14). This, then, further confirmeth what was said but just above; his
secret shall be with them, and his covenant shall be showed unto them. His secret, to wit,
that which hath been kept hid from ages and generations; that which he manifesteth only to
the saints, or holy ones; that is, his Christ, for he it is that is hid in God, and that no
man can know but he to whom the Father shall reveal him (Matt 11:27).

But O! what is there wrapped up in this Christ, this secret of God? why, all treasures of life,
of heaven, and happiness--"In him are hid all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge." And "in
him dwelleth all the fulness of the Godhead bodily" (Col 2).

This also is that hidden One, that is so full of grace to save sinners, and so full of truth
and faithfulness to keep promise and covenant with them, that their eyes must needs convey,
even by every glance they make upon his person, offices, and relation, such affecting ravishments
to the heart, that it would please them that see him, even to be killed with that sight. This
secret of the Lord shall be, nay is, with them that fear him, for he dwelleth in their heart
by faith. "And he will shew them his covenant." That is, the covenant that is confirmed of
God in Christ, that everlasting and eternal covenant, and show him too that he himself is wrapped
up therein, as in a bundle of life with the Lord his God. These are the thoughts, purposes,
and promises of God to them that fear him.

Fourth Privilege. Dost thou fear the Lord? his eye is always over thee for good, to keep thee
from all evil--"Behold the eye of the Lord is upon them that fear him, upon them that hope
in his mercy; to deliver their soul from death, and to keep them alive in famine" (Psa 33:18,19).
His eye is upon them; that is, to watch over them for good. He that keepeth Israel neither
slumbers nor sleeps. His eyes are upon them, and he will keep them as a shepherd doth his sheep;
that is, from those wolves that seek to devour them, and to swallow them up in death. His eyes
are upon them; for they are the object of his delight, the rarities of the world, in whom,
saith he, is all my delight. His eye is upon them, as I said before, to teach and instruct
them--"I will instruct thee and teach thee in the way which thou shalt go; I will guide thee
with mine eye" (Psa 32:8; 2 Chron 7:15,16). The eye of the Lord, therefore, is upon them, not
to take advantage of them, to destroy them for their sins, but to guide, to help, and deliver
them from death; from that death that would feed upon their souls--"To deliver their soul from
death and to keep them alive in famine." All but a few of the safes in Crépy were completely emptied.
On the 3rd day of the same month at Baron, an artist known for his talents, Prof. Albéric
Magnard, used a revolver to fire two shots at troops entering his property. It resulted in one
soldier being killed and the other wounded.
 Again, should
there be a famine of the Word; should there want both the Word and them that preach it in the
place that thou dost dwell, yet bread shall be given thee, and thy water shall be sure; thou
shalt not die of the famine, because thou fearest God. I say, that man shall not, behold he
shall not, because he feareth God, and this the next head doth yet more fully manifest.

Fifth Privilege. (Psa 34:9,10). Not anything that God sees good for them shall those men want
that fear the Lord. If health will do them good, if sickness will do them good, if riches will
do them good, if poverty will do them good, if life will do them good, if death will do them
good, then they shall not want them, neither shall any of these come nigh them, if they will
not do them good. The lions, the wicked people [19] of the world that fear not God, are not
made sharers in this great privilege; all things fall out to them contrary, because they fear
not God. In the midst of their sufficiency, they are in want of that good that God puts into
the worst things that the man that feareth God doth meet with in the world.

Sixth Privilege. Dost thou fear God? he hath given charge to the armies of heaven to look after,
take charge of, to camp about, and to deliver thee--"The angel of the Lord encampeth round
about them that fear him, and delivereth them" (Psa 34:7). This also is a privilege entailed
to them that in all generations fear the Lord. The angels, the heavenly creatures, have it
in commission to take the charge of them that fear the Lord; one of them is able to slay of
men in one night 185,000. These are they that camped about Elisha like horses of fire, and
chariots of fire, when the enemy came to destroy him. They also helped Hezekiah against the
band of the enemy, because he feared God (2 Kings 6:17; Isa 37:36; Jer 26:19). "The angel of
the Lord encampeth round about them"; that is, lest the enemy should set upon them on any side;
but let him come where he will, behind or before, on this side or that, the angel of the Lord
is there to defend them. "The angel." It may be spoken in the singular number, perhaps, to
show that every one that feareth God hath his angel to attend on him, and serve him. When the
church, in the Acts, was told that Peter stood at the door and knocked; at first they counted
the messenger mad, but when she did constantly affirm it, they said, It is his angel (Acts
12:13-15). So Christ saith of the children that came unto him, "their angels behold the face
of my Father which is in heaven." Their angels; that is, those of them that feared God, had
each of them his angel, who had a charge from God to keep them in their way.

[Quest.] But how do they deliver them? for so says the text--"The angel of the Lord encampeth
round about them that fear him, and delivereth them." Answ. The way that they take to deliver
them that fear the Lord, is sometimes by smiting of their enemies with blindness, that they
may not find them; and so they served the enemies of Lot (Gen 19:10,11). Sometimes by smiting
of them with deadly fear; and so they served those that laid siege against Samaria (2 Kings
7:6). And sometimes by smiting of them even with death itself; and thus they served Herod,
after he had attempted to kill the apostle James, and also sought to vex certain others of
the church (Acts 12). These angels that are servants to them that fear the Lord, are them that
will, if God doth bid them, revenge the quarrel of his servants upon the stoutest monarch on
earth. This, therefore, is a glorious privilege of the men that fear the Lord. Alas! they are,
some of them, so mean that they are counted not worth taking notice of by the high ones of
the world; but their betters do respect them. The angels of God count not themselves too good
to attend on them, and camp about them to deliver them. This, then, is the man that hath his
angel to wait upon him, even he that feareth God.

Seventh Privilege. Dost thou fear the Lord? salvation is nigh unto thee--"Surely his salvation
is nigh them that fear him, that glory may dwell in our land" (Psa 85:9). This is another privilege
for them that fear the Lord. I told you before, that the angel of the Lord did encamp about
them, but now he saith, "his salvation is also nigh them"; the which although it doth not altogether
exclude the conduct of angels,[20] but include them; yet it looketh further. "Surely his salvation,"
his saving, pardoning grace, "is nigh them that fear him"; that is, to save them out of the
hand of their spiritual enemies. The devil, and sin, and death, do always wait even to devour
them that fear the Lord, but to deliver them from these his salvation doth attend them. So
then, if Satan tempts, here is their salvation nigh; if sin, by breaking forth, beguiles them,
here is God's salvation nigh them; yea, if death itself shall suddenly seize upon them, why,
here is their God's salvation nigh them.

I have seen that great men's little children must go no whither without their nurses be at
hand. If they go abroad, their nurses must go with them; if they go to meals, their nurses
must go with them; if they go to bed, their nurses must go with them; yea, and if they fall
asleep, their nurses must stand by them. O my brethren, those little ones that fear the Lord,
they are the children of the highest, therefore they shall not walk alone, be at their spiritual
meats alone, go to their sick-beds, or to their graves alone; the salvation of their God is
nigh them, to deliver them from the evil. This is then the glory that dwells in the land of
them that fear the Lord.

Eighth Privilege. (Psa 103:17). This still confirms what was last asserted, that is, that his
salvation is nigh unto them. His salvation, that is, pardoning mercy, that is nigh them. But
mind it, there he says it is nigh them; but here it is upon them. His mercy is upon them, it
covereth them all over, it encompasseth them about as with a shield. Therefore they are said
in another place to be clothed with salvation, and covered with the robe of righteousness.
The mercy of the Lord is upon them, that is, as I said, to shelter and defend them. The mercy,
the pardoning preserving mercy, the mercy of the Lord is upon them, who is he then that can
condemn them? (Rom 8).

But there yet is more behind, "The mercy of the Lord is from everlasting to everlasting upon
them." It was designed for them before the world was, and shall be upon them when the world
itself is ended; from everlasting to everlasting it is on them that fear him. This from everlasting
to everlasting is that by which, in another place, the eternity of God himself is declared--"From
everlasting to everlasting, thou art God" (Psa 90:2). The meaning, then, may be this; that
so long as God hath his being, so long shall the man that feareth him find mercy at his hand.
According to that of Moses--"The eternal God is thy refuge, and underneath are the everlasting
arms; and he shall thrust out the enemy from before thee, and shall say, Destroy them" (Deut
33:27).

Child of God, thou that fearest God, here is mercy nigh thee, mercy enough, everlasting mercy
upon thee. This is long-lived mercy. It will live longer than thy sin, it will live longer
than temptation, it will live longer than thy sorrows, it will live longer than thy persecutors.
It is mercy from everlasting to contrive thy salvation, and mercy to everlasting to weather
it out with all thy adversaries. Now what can hell and death do to him that hath this mercy
of God upon him? And this hath the man that feareth the Lord. Take that other blessed word,
and O thou man that fearest the Lord, hang it like a chain of gold about thy neck--"As the
heaven is high above the earth, so great is his mercy toward them that fear him" (Psa 103:11).
If mercy as big, as high, and as good as heaven itself will be a privilege, the man that feareth
God shall have a privilege.

Ninth Privilege. Dost thou fear God?--"Like as a father pitieth his children, so the Lord pitieth
them that fear him" (Psa 103:13).

" The Lord pitieth them that fear him"; that is, condoleth and is affected, feeleth and sympathizeth
with them in all their afflictions. It is a great matter for a poor man to be in this manner
in the affections of the great and mighty, but for a poor sinner to be thus in the heart and
affections of God, and they that fear him are so, this is astonishing to consider. "In his
love and in his pity he redeemed them." In his love and in his pity! (Isa 63:9). I say, in
that he is said to pity them, it is as much as to say, he condoleth, feeleth, and sympathizeth
with them in all their afflictions and temptations. So that this is the happiness of him that
feareth God, he has a God to pity him and to be touched with all his miseries. It is said in
Judges, "His soul was grieved for the misery of Israel" (Judg 10:16). The method of reducing the
composition depends upon the mode of the composition's use. If it is to be used as a loose powder
by the dusting process, then it should be ground dry.

But if the composition is to be mized with either paint or another similiar substance, then
it should be ground with linseed or another similiar oil. In heating the elements aforesaid, certain
chemical combinations will have taken place, and monsulphide of calcium, combined with the carbonate
of lime, silex, and magnesia, is the result of such an ignition. But if, in the firing of
the elements all of the charcoal doesn't combine properly then the parts of the elements that
didn't combine need to be removed from the fused mass before the mass is ground otherwise it will
not produce its best product.
If it is designed to mix the composition with paints, those composed of zinc-white and bryta
need to be chosen in prefernce to those only composed of white lead
and shall only be colored by vegetable matter.

If this does not happen then a chemical action can take place between the compostion and the
paint and the color of the paint will be destroyed or changed by the gradual action of the sulphureted
hydrogen produced. However, if you add a weak solution of gun in alcohol or other suitable sizing
to the composition, it may be used with paints containng elements sensitive to sulphureted
hydrogen without danger of decomposing them and destroying their color.
In many, and probably in the majority of cases, the illuminating composition applied as a dry
powder will give the best results, in view of the tendency to chemical action between the paint
and composition when intimately mixed; in view of the fact that by the addition to paint of any
color of a sufficient quanity of the composition to render the product luminous, the original
color of the paint shall be changed or even destroyed; and alos, in view of the fact the the
luminous composition is so greatly in excess of the paint, the proportions in which they are
united being substantially ten parts of the former to on of the latter,
it would be very difficult to impart a certain color to the product
of the union without detracting from its illuminating parts.

On the other hand, though, the union of the dry powder with a body that is already painted by the
simple force of adhesion does not always establish a suffiently intimate relation between it
and the paint to cause a chemical action, the application of a very light coat of the powder does
not materially change the hue of the article to which it is being applied to, and, even further,
by the use of the powder in an uncombined state its greatest illuminating effects will be obtained.
Again, if the appearance in the daytime of the article which it is desired to have appear luminous
at night is not material, it may be left unpainted and simply sized in order to retain the powder.

In printing it is very probably that the composition will be employed almost always in the dry
powder form, as printing-ink becomes too thick to be handled very well when it is combined with
powder in enough of a quantity to make the paper luminous. However, the printed surface of
a newly printed sheet may be rendered luminous by dusting the sheet with the powder because the
powder will adhere to all of the ink on the paper and it may be easily shaken from the unmoisted
surfaces thereof.

I am also aware that monosulphide of calcium and magnesia have before been used together in phosphorescent
compounds. What I claim is that a phosphorescent composition that consists of monosulphide of
calcium, combined with carbonate of lime, silex, and magnesia substantially as described.
 He takes pleasure in their prosperity, and therefore sendeth them health from
the sanctuary, and makes them drink of the river of his pleasures (Psa 35:27). That or those
that we take pleasure in, that or those we love to beautify and adorn with many ornaments.
We count no cost too much to be bestowed on those in whom we place our delight, and whom we
make the object of our pleasure. And even thus it is with God. "For the Lord taketh pleasure
in his people," and what follows? "he will beautify the meek with salvation" (Psa 149:4).

Those in whom we delight, we take pleasure in their actions; yea, we teach them, and give them
such rules and laws to walk by, as may yet make them that we love more pleasurable in our eyes.
Therefore they that fear God, since they are the object of his pleasure, are taught to know
how to please him in everything (1 Thess 4:1). And hence it is said, that he is ravished with
their looks, that he delighteth in their cry, and that he is pleased with their walking (Can
4:9; Prov 15:8, 11:20).

Those in whom we delight and take pleasure, many things we will bear and put up that they do,
though they be not according to our minds. A man will suffer that in, and put up that at, the
hand of the child or wife of his pleasure, that he will not pass by nor put up in another.
They are my jewels, says God, even them that fear me; and I will spare them, in all their comings-short
of my will, "even as a man spareth his own son that serveth him" (Mal 3:16,17). O how happy
is the man that feareth God! His good thoughts, his good attempts to serve him, and his good
life pleases him, because he feareth God.

You know how pleasing in our eyes the actions of our children are, when we know that they do
what they do even of a reverent fear and awe of us; yea, though that which they do amounts
but to little, we take it well at their hands, and are pleased therewith. The woman that cast
in her two mites into the treasury, cast in not much, for they both did but make one farthing;
yet how doth the Lord Jesus trumpet her up,[22] he had pleasure in her, and in her action (Mark
12:41-44). This, therefore, that the Lord taketh pleasure in them that fear him, is another
of their great privileges.

Twelfth Privilege. Dost thou fear God? the least dram of that fear giveth the privilege to
be blessed with the biggest saint--"He will bless them that fear the Lord, small and great"
(Psa 115:13). This word small may be taken three ways--1. For those that are small in esteem,
for those that are but little accounted of (Judg 6:15; 1 Sam 18:23). Art thou small or little
in this sense, yet if thou fearest God, thou art sure to be blessed. "He will bless them that
fear him, small and great," be thou never so small in the world's eyes, in thine own eyes,
in the saints' eyes, as sometimes one saint is little in another saint's eye; yet thou, because
thou fearest God, art put among the blessed. 2. By small, sometimes is meant those that are
but small of stature, or young in years, little children, that are easily passed by and looked
over: as those that sang Hosanna in the temple were, when the Pharisees deridingly said of
them to Christ, "Hearest thou what these say?" (Matt 21:16). Well, but Christ would not despise
them, of them that feared God, but preferred them by the Scripture testimony far before those
that did contemn them. Little children, how small soever, and although of never so small esteem
with men, shall also, if they fear the Lord, be blessed with the greatest saints--"He will
bless them that fear him, small and great." 3. By small may sometimes be meant those that are
small in grace or gifts; these are said to be the least in the church, that is, under this
consideration, and so are by it least esteemed (Matt 25:45). Thus also is that of Christ to
be understood, "Inasmuch as ye did it not to one of the least of these, ye did it not to me"
(1 Cor 6:4).

Art thou in thine own thoughts, or in the thoughts of others, of these last small ones, small
in grace, small in gifts, small in esteem upon this account, yet if thou fearest God, if thou
fearest God indeed, thou art certainly blessed with the best of saints. The least star stands
as fixed, as the biggest of them all, in heaven. "He will bless them that fear him, small and
great." He will bless them, that is, with the same blessing of eternal life. For the different
degrees of grace in saints doth not make the blessing, as to its nature, differ. It is the
same heaven, the same life, the same glory, and the same eternity of felicity that they are
in the text promised to be blessed with. That is observable which I mentioned before, where
Christ at the day of judgment particularly mentioneth and owneth the least--"Inasmuch as ye
did it not to one of the least." The least then was there, in his kingdom and in his glory,
as well as the biggest of all. "He will bless them that fear him, small and great." The small
are named first in the text, and are so the first in rank; it may be to show that though they
may be slighted and little set by in the world, yet they are much set by in the eyes of the Lord.

Are great saints only to have the kingdom, and the glory everlasting? Are great works only
to be rewarded? works that are done by virtue of great grace, and the abundance of the gifts
of the Holy Ghost? No: "Whosoever shall give to drink unto one of these little ones a cup of
cold water only, in the name of a disciple, verily I say unto you, he shall in no wise lose
his (a disciple's) reward." Mark, here is but a little gift, a cup of cold water, and that
given to a little saint, but both taken special notice of by our Lord Jesus Christ (Matt 10:42).
The small, therefore, among them that fear God, are blessed with the great, as the great, with
the same salvation, the same glory, and the same eternal life; and they shall have, even as
the great ones also shall, as much as they can carry; as much as their hearts, souls, bodies,
and capacities can hold.

Thirteenth Privilege. Dost thou fear God? why, the Holy Ghost hath on purpose indited for thee
a whole psalm to sing concerning thyself. So that thou mayest even as thou art in thy calling,
bed, journey, or whenever, sing out thine own blessed and happy condition to thine own comfort
and the comfort of thy fellows. The psalm is called the 128th Psalm; I will set it before thee,
both as it is in the reading[23] and in the singing Psalms--

" Blessed is every one that feareth the Lord, that walketh in his ways. For thou shalt eat
the labour of thine hands: happy shalt thou be, and it shall be well with thee. Thy wife shall
be as a fruitful vine by the sides of thine house; thy children, like olive plants round about
thy table. Behold, that thus shall the man be blessed that feareth the Lord. The Lord shall
bless thee out of Zion; and thou shalt see the good of Jerusalem all the days of thy life.
Yea, thou shalt see thy children's children, and peace upon Israel."

AS IT IS SUNG.

Blessed art thou that fearest God, And walkest in his way: For of thy labour thou shalt eat;
Happy art thou, I say! Like fruitful vines on thy house side, So doth thy wife spring out;
Thy children stand like olive plants Thy table round about.

Thus art thou blest that fearest God, And he shall let thee see The promised Jerusalem, And
her felicity. Thou shalt thy children's children see, To thy great joy's increase; And likewise
grace on Israel, Prosperity and peace.[24]

And now I have done with the privileges when I have removed one objection.

Object. You were within sight. What did you see?"

She looked through me as she answered in a hushed voice, "I tried
to watch the couch, but eventually it became impossible.

The smoke was too thick. Something moved in the darkness. It may have been Doctor Winchester
being overcome or it may have been the Queen waking. I was unsure.
I reased poor Silvo. It may be taken for the fear of reprobates. 3. It may be taken for the fear that
is wrought in the godly by the Spirit as a spirit of bondage; or, 4. It may be taken for the
fear that I have been but now discoursing of.

Now the fear that perfect love casts out cannot be that son-like, gracious fear of God, that
I have in this last place been treating of; because that fear that love casts out hath torment,
but so has not the son-like fear. Therefore the fear that love casts out is either that fear
that is like the fear of devils and reprobates, or that fear that is begot in the heart by
the Spirit of God as a spirit of bondage, or both; for, indeed, all these kinds of fear have
torment, and therefore may be cast out; and are so by the spirit of adoption, which is called
the spirit of faith and love, when he comes with power into the soul; so that without this
fear we should serve him. But to argue from these texts that we ought not to fear God, or to
mix fear with our worship of him, is as much as to say that by the spirit of adoption we are
made very rogues; for not to fear God is by the Scripture applied to such (Luke 23:40). But
for what I have affirmed the Scripture doth plentifully confirm, saying, "Happy is the man
that feareth alway." And again, "It shall be well with them that fear God, which fear before
him." Fear, therefore; the spirit of the fear of the Lord is a grace that greatly beautifies
a Christian, his words, and all his ways: "Wherefore now let the fear of the Lord be upon you;
take heed, and do it, for there is no iniquity with the Lord our God, nor respect of persons,
nor taking of gifts" (2 Chron 19:7).

I come now to make some use and application of this doctrine.

THE USE OF THIS DOCTRINE.

Having proceeded thus far about this doctrine of the fear of God, I now come to make some use
and application of the whole; and my

[USE FIRST, of Examination.]

FIRST USE shall be a USE OF EXAMINATION. Is this fear of God such an excellent thing? Is it
attended with so many blessed privileges? Then this should put us, every soul of us, upon a
diligent examination of ourselves, to wit, whether this grace be in us or not, for if it be,
then thou art one of these blessed ones to whom belong these glorious privileges, for thou
hast an interest in every of them; but if it shall appear that this grace is not in thee, then
thy state is fearfully miserable, as hath partly been manifest already, and will further be
seen in what comes after. Now, the better to help thee to consider, and not to miss in finding
out what thou art in thy self-examination, I will speak to this--First. In general. Second.
In particular.

First. In general. No man brings this grace into the world with him. Every one by nature is
destitute of it; for naturally none fear God, there is no fear of God, none of this grace of
fear before their eyes, they do not so much as know what it is; for this fear flows, as was
showed before, from a new heart, faith, repentance and the like; of which new heart, faith,
and repentance, if thou be void, thou art also void of this godly fear. Men must have a mighty
change of heart and life, or else they are strangers to this fear of God. Alas, how ignorant
are the most of this! Yea, and some are not afraid to say they are not changed, nor desire
so to be. Can these fear God? can these be possessed with this grace of fear? No: "Because
they have no changes, therefore they fear not God" (Psa 55:19; Psa 36:1; Rom 3:18).

