Jewdwine divined this purity, and was touched by it. He prepared to accept a certain amount
of responsibility. He looked at his watch. He could still get to Hampstead by eight o'clock,
if he took a cab--say,--twenty minutes. He could spare him another ten. The Junior Journalists
were coming back from their dinner and the room would soon be crowded. He took his disciple's
arm in a protecting manner and steered him into a near recess. He felt that the ten minutes
he was about to give him would be decisive in the young man's career.

"You've still got to find your formula. Not to have found your formula," he said solemnly,
"is not to have found yourself."

"Perhaps I haven't been looking in very likely places," said Rickman, nobly touched, as he
always was by the more personal utterances of the master.

"The Jubilee Variety Theatre, for instance. Do you go there to find the ideal, or in pursuit
of the fugitive actuality?"

"Whichever you like to call it. Its name on the programme is Miss Poppy Grace."

"Look here, Rickman," said Jewdwine, gently; "when are you going to give up this business?"

"Which business?"

"Well, at the moment I referred to your situation in the Gin Palace of Art--"

"I can't chuck it just yet. There's my father, you see. It would spoil all his pleasure in
that new plate-glass and mahogany devilry. He's excited about it; wants to make it a big thing--"

"So he puts a big man into it?"

"Oh, well, I must see him started."

He spoke simply, as of a thing self-evident and indisputable. Jewdwine admired.

"You're quite right. You are handicapped. Heavily handicapped. So, for Goodness' sake, don't
weight yourself any more. If you can't drop the Gin Palace, drop Miss Poppy Grace."

"Poppy Grace? She weighs about as much as a feather."

"Drop her, drop her, all the same."

"I can't. She wouldn't drop. She'd float."

"Don't float with her."

As he rose he spoke slowly and impressively. "What you've got to do is to pull yourself together.
You can't afford to be dissolute, or even dissipated."

Rickman looked hard at Jewdwine's boots. Irreproachable boots, well made, well polished, unspotted
by the world. And the only distinguishable word in Rickman's answer was "Life." And as he said
"Life" he blushed like a girl when for the first time she says "Love," a blush of rapture and
of shame, her young blood sensitive to the least hint of apathy in her audience.

Jewdwine's apathy was immense.

"Another name for the fugitive actuality," he said. "Well, I'm afraid I haven't any more time--"
He looked round the room a little vaguely, and as he did so he laid on the young man's shoulder
a delicate fastidious hand. "There are one or two men here I should have liked to introduce
you to, if I'd had time.--Another night, perhaps--" He piloted him downstairs and so out into
the Strand.

"Good night. Good night. Take my advice and leave the fugitive actuality alone."

Those were Jewdwine's last words, spoken from the depths of the hansom. It carried him to the
classic heights of Hampstead, to the haunts of the cultivated, the intellectual, the refined.

Rickman remained a moment. His dreamy gaze was fixed on the massive pile before him, that rose,
solidly soaring, flaunting a brutal challenge to the tender April sky. It stood for the vast
material reality, the whole of that eternal, implacable Power which is at enmity with dreams;
which may be conquered, propitiated, absorbed, but never annihilated or denied.

That actuality was not fugitive.

CHAPTER VII

Perhaps it was not to be wondered at if Mr. Rickman had not yet found himself. There were,
as he sorrowfully reflected, so many Mr. Rickmans.

There was Mr. Rickman of the front shop and second-hand department, known as "our Mr. Rickman."
The shop was proud of him; his appearance was supposed to give it a certain cachet. He neither
strutted nor grovelled; he moved about from shelf to shelf in an absent-minded scholarly manner.
He served you, not with obsequiousness, nor yet with condescension, but with a certain remoteness
and abstraction, a noble apathy. Though a bookseller, his literary conscience remained incorruptible.
He would introduce you to his favourite authors with a magnificent take-it-or-leave-it air,
while an almost imperceptible lifting of his eyebrows as he handed you your favourite was a
subtle criticism of your taste. This method of conducting business was called keeping up the
tone of the establishment. The appearance and disappearance of this person was timed and regulated
by circumstances beyond his own control, so that of necessity all the other Mr. Rickmans were
subject to him.

For there was Mr. Rickman the student and recluse, who inhabited the insides of other men's
books. Owing to his habitual converse with intellects greater--really greater--than his own,
he was an exceedingly humble and reverent person. A high and stainless soul. You would never
have suspected his connection with Mr. Rickman, the Junior Journalist, the obscure writer of
brilliant paragraphs, a fellow destitute of reverence and decency and everything except consummate
impudence, a disconcerting humour and a startling style. But he was still more distantly related
to Mr. Rickman the young man about town. And that made four. Besides these four there was a
fifth, the serene and perfect intelligence, who from some height immeasurably far above them
sat in judgement on them all. But for his abnormal sense of humour he would have been a Mr.
Rickman of the pure reason, no good at all. As it was, he occasionally offered some reflection
which was enjoyed but seldom acted upon.

And underneath these Mr. Rickmans, though inextricably, damnably one with them, was a certain
apparently commonplace but amiable young man, who lived in a Bloomsbury boarding-house and
dropped his aitches. This young man was tender and chivalrous, full of little innocent civilities
to the ladies of his boarding-house; he admired, above all things, modesty in a woman, and
somewhere, in the dark and unexplored corners of his nature, he concealed a prejudice in favour
of marriage and the sanctities of home.

That made six, and no doubt they would have pulled together well enough; but the bother was
that any one of them was liable at any moment to the visitation of the seventh--Mr. Rickman
the genius. There was no telling whether he would come in the form of a high god or a demon,
a consolation or a torment. Sometimes he would descend upon Mr. Rickman in the second-hand
department, and attempt to seduce him from his allegiance to the Quarterly Catalogue. Or he
would take up the poor journalist's copy as it lay on a table, and change it so that its own
editor wouldn't know it again. And sometimes he would swoop down on the little bookseller as
he sat at breakfast on a Sunday morning, in his nice frock coat and clean collar, and wrap
his big flapping wings round him, and carry him off to the place where the divine ideas come
from leaving a silent and to all appearances idiotic young gentleman in his place. Or he would
sit down by that young gentleman's side and shake him out of his little innocences and complacencies,
and turn all his little jokes into his own incomprehensible humour. And then the boarding-house
would look uncomfortable and say to itself that Mr. Rickman had been drinking.

In short, it was a very confusing state of affairs, and one that made it almost impossible
for Mr. Rickman to establish his identity. Seven Rickmans--only think of it! And some reckon
an eighth, Mr. Rickman drunk. But this is not altogether fair; for intoxication acted rather
on all seven at once, producing in them a gentle fusion with each other and the universe. They
had ceased to struggle. But Mr. Rickman was not often drunk, or at least not nearly so often
as his friends supposed.

So it was all very well for Jewdwine, who was not so bewilderingly constructed, to talk about
finding your formula and pulling yourself together. How, Mr. Rickman argued, could you hope
to find the formula of a fellow who could only be expressed in fractions, and vulgar fractions,
too? How on earth could you pull yourself together when Nature had deliberately cut you into
little pieces? Never since poor Orpheus was torn to tatters by the Mænads was there a poet
so horribly subdivided. Talk of being dissolute, dissipated! Those adjectives were a poor description
of S.K.R. It was more than sowing a mere handful of wild oats, it was a disintegration, a scattering
of Rickmans to all the winds of the world.

Find himself, indeed!

Still, he was perfectly willing to try; and to that end (after dining with people who were
anything but cultivated, or intellectual, or refined) he turned himself loose into the streets.

The streets--he was never tired of them. After nine or ten hours of sitting in a dusty second-hand
bookshop, his soul was dry with thirst for the living world, and the young joy of the world,
"the fugitive actuality." And her ways were in the streets.

Being a young poet about town, he turned to the streets as naturally as a young poet in the
country turns to the woods and fields. For in the streets, if you know how to listen, you can
hear the lyric soul of things as plainly, more plainly perhaps, than in the woods or fields.
Only it sings another sort of song. And going into the streets was Rickman's way (the only
way open to him as yet) of going into society. The doors were thrown hospitably wide to him;
one day was as good as another; the world was always at home.

It was a world where he could pick and choose his acquaintance; where, indeed, out of that
multitudinous, never-ending procession of persons, his power of selection was unlimited. He
never had any difficulty with them; their methods were so charmingly simple and direct. In
the streets the soul is surprised through the lifting of an eyelid, and the secret of the heart
sits lightly on the curl of the lip. These passers by never wearied him; they flung him the
flower of the mystery and--passed by. The perfection of social intercourse he conceived as
a similar succession of radiant intimacies.

To-night he went southwards down Gower Street, drawn by the never-ending fugitive perspective
of the lamps. He went westwards down Shaftesbury Avenue to Piccadilly. The Circus was a gleaming
basin filled with grey night clear as water, the floor of it alive with lights. Lights that
stood still; lights that wandered from darkness into darkness; that met and parted, darting,
wheeling, and crossing in their flight. Long avenues opened out of it, precipitous deep cuttings
leading into the night. The steep, shadowy masses of building seemed piled sky-high, like a
city of the air; here the gleam of some golden white façade, there some aerial battlement crowned
with stars, with clusters, and points, and rings of flame that made a lucid twilight of the
dark above them. Over all was an illusion of immensity.

Nine o'clock of an April night--the time when a great city has most power over those that love
her; the time when she lowers her voice and subdues her brilliance, intimating that she is
not what she seems; when she makes herself unearthly and insubstantial, veiling her grossness
in the half-transparent night. Like some consummate temptress, she plays the mystic, clothing
herself with light and darkness, skirting the intangible, hinting at the infinities, flinging
out the eternal spiritual lure, so that she may better seduce the senses through the soul.
And Rickman was too young a poet to distinguish clearly between his senses and his imagination,
or his imagination and his soul.

He stood in Piccadilly Circus and regarded the spectacle of the night. He watched the groups
gathering at the street corners, the boys that went laughing arm in arm, the young girls smiling
into their lovers' eyes; here and there the faces of other women, dubious divinities of the
gas-light and the pavement, passing and passing. A very ordinary spectacle. But to Rickman
it had an immense significance, a rhythmic, processional resonance and grandeur. It was an
unrhymed song out of Saturnalia, it was the luminous, passionate nocturne of the streets.

Half-past nine; a young girl met him and stopped. She laughed into his face.

"Pretty well pleased with yourself, aren't you?" said the young girl.

He laughed back again. He was pleased with the world, so of course he was pleased with himself.
They were one. The same spirit was in Mr. Rickman that was in the young girl and in the young
April night.

They walked together as far as the Strand, conversing innocently.

CHAPTER VIII

At ten o'clock he found himself in a corridor of the Jubilee Variety Theatre. The young girl
had vanished.

For a moment he stood debating whether he would go home and work out some ideas he had. Or
whether he would pursue the young Joy, the fugitive actuality, to the very threshold of the
dawn. Whether, in short, he would make a night of it.

He was aroused by the sound of a box-door opening and shutting; and a shining shirt-front and
a shining face darted suddenly into the light. At the same moment a voice hailed him.

"Hello, Razors! That you?"

Voice, face, and shining shirt-front belonged to Mr. Richard Pilkington, Financial Agent, of
Shaftesbury Avenue.

"Razors" was the name by which Rickman was known to his intimates in subtle allusion to his
youth. He responded sulkily to the hail. Dicky Pilkington was the last person he desired to
meet. For he owed Dicky a certain sum, not large, but larger than he could conveniently pay,
and Dicky was objectionable for other reasons. He had mysterious relations with the Management
of the Jubilee Theatre, and consequently unlimited facilities of access to Miss Poppy Grace.
Besides, there was something about him that was deadly to ideas.

Ideas or no ideas, Mr. Pilkington was not to be evaded. He bore down on Rickman, shining genially,
and addressed him with an air of banter.

"Couldn't have arranged it better. You're the very fellow I want."

There was a suggestion of a chuckle in his voice which sent Rickman's thoughts flying fearfully
to his last I.O.U. The alert mind of Pilkington followed their flight. He was intensely amused.
He always was amused when anybody showed a marked distaste for his society.

"Your business, not mine, this time, Rick. I happen to know of a ripping old library for sale
down in Devonshire. Shouldn't have thought of it if I hadn't seen you."

"Well?" Rickman's face expressed an utter inability to perceive the connection. Once the iron
shutters had closed on Rickman's he felt that he was no more a part of it. Words could not
express his abhorrence of the indecent people who insisted on talking shop out of shop hours.
And Dicky never had any decency.

"Well--it's practically on our hands, d'ye see? And if your people care to take over the whole
lot, I can let you have it pretty reasonably."

Rickman's face emptied itself of all expression whatever.

"I say, you are a cool young cuss. Is this the way you generally do business?"

"I'll think it over."

"Wouldn't think too long if I were you. It ought to go by auction, and it might; only private
contract's preferred."

"Why preferred?"

"Out of respect for the feelin's of the family."

Rickman's eyes were wandering dreamily from the matter in hand. They had alighted on an enormous
photograph of Miss Poppy Grace. For an instant thought, like a cloud, obscured the brilliance
of Mr. Pilkington's face.

"Anyhow I've given you the straight tip," said Pilkington.

"Thanks. We'll send a fellow down to overhaul the thing."

"He'd better hurry up then. It may have to go by auction after all. But if you'd like the refusal
of it, now's your chance."

But Rickman betrayed no enthusiasm.

"You'd better see the guv'nor about it."

Mr. Pilkington looked Rickman up and down, and encountered an immovable determination in his gaze.

"Right you are. I'll send him word to-night. Ta-ta!" He turned again in the moment of departing.
"I say, he must send a good man down, you know. It'll take an expert. There's a lot of old
things--Greek and Latin--that's something in your line, isn't it?"

But Rickman's line at present was the line of least resistance. It was ten past ten, and Poppy
Grace was "on" from ten fifteen to ten forty.

CHAPTER IX

She was only an ordinary little variety actress, and he knew her little programme pretty well
by heart. But her fascinations were independent of the glamour of the foot-lights. It was off
the stage that he had first come to know her, really know her, a thing that at the first blush
of it seems impossible; for the great goddess Diana is not more divinely secret and secluded
than (to a young bookseller) a popular Dance and Song Artiste in private life. Poppy's rooms
were next door to the boarding-house balcony, and it was the balcony that did it.

Now, in the matter of balconies, if you choose to regard the receding wooden partition as a
partition, and sit very far back behind it, you will have your balcony all to yourself, that
is to say, you will see nothing, neither will you be seen. If, however, you prefer, as Mr.
Rickman preferred, to lean forward over the railings and observe things passing in the street
below, you can hardly help establishing some sort of communication with the next-door neighbour
who happens to be doing the same thing. At first this communication was purely in the region
of the mind, without so much as the movement of an eyelid on either side, and that made it
all the more intimate and intense. But to sit there Sunday evening after Sunday evening, when
the other boarders were at church, both looking at the same plane-tree opposite, or the same
tail-end of a sunset flung across the chimney pots, without uttering a syllable or a sound,
was at last seen by both in its true light, as a thing not only painful but absurd. So one
evening the deep, full-hearted silence burst and flowered into speech. In common courtesy Mr.
Rickman had to open his lips to ask her whether she objected to his smoking (she did not).
Then it came to acknowledging each other in the streets; after that, to Poppy's coming out
and looking over the balcony about the time when Mr. Rickman would be coming home from the
shop, and to Mr. Rickman's looking to see if Poppy was looking; and so on, to that wonderful
night when he saw her home from the Jubilee Theatre. The stars were out; not that Poppy cared
a rap about the stars.

Her first appearance to-night was in the character of a coster-girl, a part well suited to
her audacity and impertinent prettiness. Poppy was the tiniest dancer that ever whirled across
a stage, a circumstance that somewhat diminished the vulgarity of her impersonation, while
it gave it a very engaging character of its own. Her small Cockney face, with its impudent
laughing nose, its curling mouth (none too small), its big, twinkling blue eyes, was framed
in a golden fringe and side curls. She wore a purple velveteen skirt, a purple velveteen jacket
with a large lace collar, and a still larger purple velveteen hat with white ostrich feathers
that swayed madly from the perpendicular.

The secret of Poppy's popularity lay in this, that you could always depend on her; she always
played the same part in the same manner; but her manner was her own. To come on the stage quietly;
to look, in spite of her coster costume, the picture of suburban innocence, and pink and white
propriety; to stand facing her audience for a second of time, motionless and in perfect gravity--it
was a trick that, though Poppy never varied it, had a more killing effect than the most ingenious
impromptu.

"Sh--sh--sh--sh!" A flutter of programmes in the pit was indignantly suppressed by the gallery.
There was a movement of Poppy's right eyelid which in a larger woman would have been called
a wink; in Poppy it appeared as an exaggerated twinkle. It was greeted with a roar of rapturous
applause. Then Poppy, with her hands on her hips, and her head on one side, raised her Cockney
voice in a high-pitched song, executing between each verse a slow, swinging chassée to the
stage Humorist with the concertina.

      "Oh, she's my fancy girl,
        With 'er 'air all outer curl,
      'Ooks orf, eyes orf, petticoats all awry.
        For then she isn't shy;
        She gives 'er bangs a twirl,
    And it's--'Kiss me quick!'--and--'That's the Trick!'
    --and--(dim)--'Wouldn't yer like to try?'"

When the stage Humorist with the concertina stopped chasséeing, and put his finger to his nose,
and observed, "That's wot you might call a dim innuender," Rickman could have kicked him.

    (cresc.),
         'But got up fit ter kill,
            In 'er velverteen an' frill,
          It's--'Ands orf!'--'Heyes orf!'--'Fetch yer one in the heye!'--
            A strollin' down the 'Igh,
            With 'Enery, Alf an' Bill,
    It's--'None er that!'--and 'Mind my 'at!'--and
    (fortissimo)--'WOULDN'T yer like to try!'"

"To try! To try!" Her chassée quickened ever so little, doubled on itself, and became a tortuous
thing. Poppy's feet beat out the measure that is danced on East End pavements to the music
of the concertina. In the very abandonment of burlesque Poppy remained an artist, and her dance
preserved the gravity of the original ballet, designed for performance on a flagstone. Now
it unfolded; it burst its bounds; it was a rhythmic stampede. Louder and louder, her clicking
heels beat the furious time; higher and higher her dexterous toes flew to her feathers that
bowed to meet them, and when her last superhuman kick sent her hat flying, and the Humorist
caught it on his head, they had brought the house down.

Rickman went out to the bar, where he found Dicky Pilkington, and at Dicky's suggestion he
endeavoured to quench with brandy and soda his inextinguishable thirst.

He returned to the storm and glare of the ballet, the last appearance of that small, incarnate
genius of Folly. There were other dancers, but he saw none but her. He knew every pose and
movement of her body, from her first tentative, preluding pirouette, to her last moon-struck
dance, when she tossed her tall grenadier's cap to the back of the stage, and still spinning,
shook out her hair, and flung herself backwards, till it streamed and eddied with the whirlwind
of her dance. In her fantastic dress (she wore her colours, the red and black) her very womanhood
had vanished, she was a mere insignificant morsel of flesh and blood, inspired by the dizzy,
reckless Fury of the foot-lights.

There was a noise of many boots beating the floor of the house; it grew into a thick, solid
body of sound, torn at intervals by a screaming whistle from the galleries. Someone up there
shouted her name--"Poppy--Poppy Grace!" and Rickman shivered.

To Rickman's mind the name was an outrage; it reeked of popularity; it suggested--absurdly
and abominably--a certain cheap drink of sudden and ephemeral effervescence. He never let his
mind dwell on those dreadful syllables any longer than he could help; he never thought of her
as Poppy Grace at all. He thought of her in undefined, extraordinary ways; now as some nameless
aerial spirit, unaccountably wandering about in a world too gross for it; and now as the Young
Joy, the fugitive actuality. To-night, after brandy and soda, his imagination possessed itself
of Poppy, and wove round her the glory and gloom of the world. It saw in her, not the incarnation
of the rosy moment, but the eternal sacrifice of woman, the tragedy of her abasement, her obedience
to the world. Which, when he came to think of it, was really very clever of his imagination.

Meanwhile Poppy was behaving, as she had behaved for the last fifty nights, like a lunatic
humming top. Now it had steadied itself in the intensity of its speed; the little humming-top
was sleeping. Poppy, as she span, seemed to be standing, her feet rooted, her body swaying
delicately from the hips, like a flower rocked by the wind, the light of her flickering flamewise.
There was a stir, a wave, as if the heart of the house had heaved. Pit and gallery breathed
hard. Rickman leaned forward with clouded eyes and troubled forehead, while the young shop-men--the
other young shop-men--thrilled with familiar and delicious emotion. Now she curtsied, as she
had curtsied for the last fifty nights, bowing lower and lower till her hair fell over her
face and swept the stage; and now she shook her head till the great golden whorl of hair seemed
the only part of her left spinning; then Poppy folded her arms and sank, sank till she sat
on her heels, herself invisible, curtained in modest and mystic fashion by her hair.

"Bravo! Bravo!" "That's the trick!"--"Encore!"--"Oh, she's my fancy girl!"--"Encore-ore-ore-ore-ore!"

It was all over.

CHAPTER X

He hurried back to Bloomsbury, in the wake of her hansom, to the house of the balcony opposite
the plane-trees. The plane-tree was half-withdrawn into the night, but the balcony hung out
black in the yellow light from its three long windows. Poppy was not in the balcony.

He went up into the room where the light was, a room that had been once an ordinary Bloomsbury
drawing-room, the drawing-room of Propriety. Now it was Poppy's drawing-room.

You came straight out of a desert of dreary and obscure respectability, and it burst, it blossomed
into Poppy before your eyes. Portraits of Poppy on the walls, in every conceivable and inconceivable
attitude. Poppy's canary in the window, in a cage hung with yellow gauze. Poppy's mandoline
in an easy chair by itself. Poppy's hat on the grand piano, tumbling head over heels among
a litter of coffee cups. On the tea-table a pair of shoes that could have belonged to nobody
but Poppy, they were so diminutive. In the waste paper basket a bouquet that must have been
Poppy's too, it was so enormous. And on the table in the window a Japanese flower-bowl that
served as a handy receptacle for cigarette ash and spent vestas. Two immense mirrors facing
each other reflected these objects and Poppy, when she was there, for ever and ever, in diminishing
perspective. But Poppy was not there.

Passing through this brilliant scene into the back room beyond, he found her finishing her supper.

Poppy was not at all surprised to see him. She addressed him as "Rickets," and invited him
under that name to sit down and have some supper, too.

But Rickets did not want any supper. He sat down at the clear end of the table, and looked
on as in a dream. And when Poppy had finished she came and sat by him on the clear end of the
table, and made cigarettes, and drank champagne out of a little tumbler.

"Thought you might feel a little lonely over there, Ricky-ticky," said she.

Poppy was in spirits. If she had yielded to the glad impulse of her heart, she would have stood
on one foot and twirled the other over Ricky-ticky's head. But she restrained herself. Somehow,
before Ricky-ticky, Poppy never played any of those tricks that delighted Mr. Pilkington and
other gentlemen of her acquaintance. She merely sat on the table. She was in her ballet-dress,
and before sitting on the table she arranged her red skirts over her black legs with a prodigious
air of propriety. Poppy herself did not know whether this meant that she wanted Ricky-ticky
to think her nice, or whether she wanted to think Ricky-ticky nice. After all, it came to the
same thing; for to Poppy the peculiar charm of Ricky-ticky was his innocence.

The clock on St. Pancras church struck half-past eleven; in his hanging cage in the front room,
behind his yellow gauze curtain, Poppy's canary woke out of his first sleep. He untucked his
head from under his wing and chirrupped drowsily.

"Oh, dicky," said Poppy, "it's time you were in your little bed!"

He did not take the hint. He was intent on certain movements of Poppy's fingers and the tip
of her tongue concerned in the making of cigarettes.

He was gazing into her face as if it held for him the secret of the world. And that look embarrassed
her. It had all the assurance of age and all the wonder of youth in it. Poppy's eyes were trained
to look out for danger signals in the eyes of boys, for Poppy, according to those lights of
hers, was honest. If she knew the secret of the world, she would not have told it to Ricky-ticky;
he was much too young. Men, in Poppy's code of morality, were different. But this amazing,
dreamy, interrogative look was not the sort of thing that Poppy was accustomed to, and for
once in her life Poppy felt shy.

"I say, Rickets, there goes a quarter to twelve. Did I wake him out of his little sleep?"

Poppy talked as much to the canary as to Rickets, which made it all quite proper. As for Rickman,
he talked hardly at all.

"You'll have to go in ten minutes, Rick." And by way of softening this announcement she gave
him some champagne.

He had paid no attention to that hint either, being occupied with a curious phenomenon. Though
Poppy was, for her, most unusually stationary, he found that it was making him slightly giddy
to look at her.

He was arriving at that moment of intoxication when things lose their baldness and immobility,
and the world begins to float like an enchanted island in a beautiful blood-warm haze. Nothing
could be more agreeable than the first approaches of this blessed state; he encouraged it,
anticipating with ecstasy each stage in the mounting of the illusion. For when he was sober
he saw Poppy very much as she was; but when he was drunk she became for him a being immaculate,
divine. He moved in a region of gross but glorious exaggeration, where his wretched little
Cockney passion assumed the proportions of a superb romance. His soul that minute was the home
of the purest, most exalted emotions. Yes, he could certainly feel it coming on. Poppy's face
was growing bigger and bigger, opening out and blossoming like an enormous flower.

"Nine minutes up. In another minute you go."

It seemed to him that Poppy was measuring time by pouring champagne into little tumblers, and
that she gave him champagne to drink. He knew it was no use drinking it, for that thirst of
his was unquenchable; but he drank, for the sake of the illusion; and as he drank it seemed
to him that not only was Poppy worthy of all adoration, but that his passion for her was no
mere vulgar and earthly passion; it was a glorious and immortal thing.

Poppy looked at him curiously. She was the soul of hospitality, but it struck her that she
was being a little too liberal with the champagne.

"No, Razors. No more fizz. If I were to drink a drop more it would spoil my little dance that
always fetches the boys."

She turned her tumbler upside down in token of renunciation and led the way into the front
room. He followed her with enchanted feet. He was now moving as in an Arabian Night's dream.

In the front room was a sofa--No, a divan, and on the divan the skin of a Polar bear sprawling.
Rickman and Poppy sat on the top of the bear. Such a disreputable, out-of-elbow, cosmopolitan
bear! His little eye-holes were screwed up in a wicked wink, a wink that repudiated any connection
with his native waters of the Pole.

The house was very still. Behind his yellow gauze curtain the canary stirred in his sleep.
"Swe-eet," he murmured plaintively in his dream.

"Swe-eet, dicky!" echoed Poppy. Then because she had nothing to say she began to sing. She
sang the song of Simpson the tenor, Simpson the master of tears.

    "'Twas on the night our little byby died,
    And Bill, 'e comes, and, 'Sal,' 'e sez,'look ere,
    I've signed a pledge,'ser 'e, 'agains the beer.
          'D'ye see?'
          Sez 'e.
        'And wot I 'ope ter syve
    Will tittervyte 'is bloomin' little gryve.'
    Then--Well--yo' should 'ave 'eard us 'ow we cried--
    Like bloomin' kids--the--night--the byby--died.

"That song," said Poppy, "doesn't exactly suit my style of beauty. You should have heard Simpey
sing it. That 'd 'ave given you something to 'owl for."

For Rickman looked depressed.

The sound of Poppy's song waked the canary; he fluttered down from his perch and stretched
his wings, trailing them on the floor of his cage to brush the sleep out of them.

"Did you ever see such affectation," said Poppy, "look at him, striking attitudes up there,
all by 'is little self!"

Poppy seemed to cling to the idea of the canary as a symbol of propriety.

"Do you know, Rickets, it's past twelve o'clock?"

No, he didn't know. He had taken no count of time. But he knew that he had drunk a great many
little tumblers of champagne, and that his love for Poppy seemed more than ever a supersensuous
and immortal thing. He pulled himself together in order to tell her so; but at that moment
he was confronted by an insuperable difficulty. In the tender and passionate speech that he
was about to make to her, it would be necessary to address her by name. But how--in Heaven's
name--could he address a divinity as Poppy? He settled the difficulty by deciding that he would
not address her at all. There should be no invocation. He would simply explain.

He got up and walked about the room and explained in such words as pleased him the distinction
between the corruptible and the incorruptible Eros. From time to time he chanted his own poems
in the intervals of explaining; for they bore upon the matter in hand.

"Rickets," said Poppy, severely, "you've had too much fizz. I can see it in your eyes--most
unmistakably. I know it isn't very nice of me to say so, when it's my fizz you've been drinking;
but it isn't really mine, it's Dicky Pilkington's--at least he paid for it."

But Rickets did not hear her. His soul, soaring on wings of champagne, was borne far away from
Dicky Pilkington.

    "Know" (chanted Rickets) "that the Love which is my Lord most high,
      He changeth not with seasons and with days,
      His feet are shod with light in all his ways.
    And when he followeth none have power to fly.

    "He chooseth whom he will, and draweth nigh.
      To them alone whom he himself doth raise
      Unto his perfect service and his praise;
    Of such Love's lowliest minister am I."

"If you'd asked me," said Poppy, "I should have said he had a pretty good opinion of himself.
What do you say, Dicky?"

"Sweet!" sang the canary in one pure, penetrating note, the voice of Innocence itself.

"Isn't he rakish?" But Poppy got no answer from the sonneteer. He had wheeled round from her,
carried away in the triumph and rapture of the sestette. His steps marked the beat of the iambics,
he turned on his heel at the end of every line. For the moment he was sober, as men count sobriety.

    "For he I serve hath paced Heaven's golden floor,
         And chanted with the Seraphims' glad choir;
         Lo! All his wings are plumed with fervent fire;
    He hath twain that bear him upward evermore,
    With twain he veils his holy eyes before
         The mystery of his own divine desire.

"Does it remind you of anything?" he asked. It struck her as odd that he seemed to realize
her presence with difficulty.

"No, I can't say that I ever heard anything like it in my life."

"Well, the idea's bagged from Dante--I mean Dante-gabrier-rossetti. But he doesn't want it
as badly as I do. In fac', I don' think he wants it at all where he is now. If he does, he
can take any of mine in exchange. You bear me out, Poppy--I invite the gentleman to step down
and make 's own s'lection: Nobody can say I plagiarize anyborry--anyborry but myself."

"All right, don't you worry, old chappy," said Poppy soothingly. "You come here and sit quiet."

He came and sat down beside her, as if the evening had only just begun. He sat down carefully,
tenderly, lest he should crush so much as the hem of her fan-like, diaphanous skirts. And then
he began to talk to her.

He said there was no woman--no lady--in the world for whom he felt such reverence and admiration;
"Pop-oppy," he said, "you're fit to dance before God on the floor of Heaven when they've swept it."

"Oh come," said Poppy, "can't you go one better?"

He could. He did. He intimated that though he worshipped every hair of Poppy's little head
and every inch of Poppy's little body, what held him, at the moment, were the fascinations
of her mind, and the positively gorgeous beauty of her soul. Yes; there could be no doubt that
the object of his devotion was Poppy's imperishable soul.

"Well," said Poppy, "that tykes the very tip-top macaroon!"

Then she laughed; she laughed as if she would never have done. She laughed, first with her
eyes, then with her throat, then with her whole body, shaking her head and rocking herself
backwards and forwards. She laughed till her hair came down, and he took it and smoothed it
into two sleek straight bands, and tied them in a loose knot under her chin.

Then she stopped laughing. Her face between the two tight sheaths of hair seemed to close and
shrink to a thin sharp bud. It closed and opened again, it grew nearer and bigger, it bent
forward and put out its mouth (for it had a mouth, this extraordinary flower) and kissed him.

"I sy, it's nearly one o'clock," said she. "You've got to clear out of this. Come!"

She rose; she stood before him holding out her hands to help him to get up and go. She laughed
again. She laughed wide-mouthed, her head flung back, her face foreshortened, her white throat
swelled and quivering--the abandoned figure of Low Comedy incarnate. But that was not what he saw.

To him it was as if the dark, impenetrable world had suddenly unfolded, had blossomed and flowered
in the rose of her mouth; as if all the roses of all the world went to make up the petals of
that rose. Her body was nothing but a shining, transparent vessel for the fire of life. It
ran over; it leapt from her; the hands she stretched out to him were two shallow lamps that
could hardly hold the tall, upward shooting, wind-tortured splendour of the flame.

He rose unsteadily to his feet. The movement, being somewhat complicated, brought him within
a yard of his own figure as presented in one of the long mirrors. He stood there, arrested,
fascinated, shocked by that person in the mirror. The face he was accustomed to see in mirrors
was grave, and not high coloured, and it always kept its mouth shut. This person's face was
very red, and his mouth was slightly open, a detail he noticed with a peculiar disgust. He
could not get away from it, either. It was held there, illuminated, insisted on, repeated for
ever and ever, smaller and smaller, an endless procession of faces, all animated by one frenzy
and one flame. He was appalled by this mysterious multiplication of his person, and by the
flushed and brilliant infamy of his face. The face was the worst; he thought he had never seen
anything so detestable as the face. He sat down and hid it in his hands.

"Poor Rickets," said Poppy softly. She drew his hands from his face by a finger at a time.

"Oh, Ricky-ticky, you are such a rum little fellow. I suppose that's why I like you. But for
the life of me I can't think why I kissed you; unless it was to say Good-night."

A kiss more or less was nothing to Poppy. And that one, she felt, had been valedictory. She
had kissed, not Ricky-ticky, but his dying Innocence, the boy in him. And she had really wanted
him to go.

The house was stiller than ever. The canary had tucked his head under his wing and gone to
sleep again. Out of the silence the clock of St. Pancras Church struck one.

And yet he had not gone.

CHAPTER XI

A step was heard on the pavement outside; then the click of a latch-key; a step on the stairs,
at the threshold, and Mr. Pilkington walked in with the air of being the master of the house
and everything in it.

The little laughing mask slipped from Poppy's face, her eyes were two sapphire crescents darting
fright under down-dropped lids. There was a look in Dicky's face she did not care for. But
Rickman--as Maddox had testified--was a perfect little gentleman when he was drunk, and at
the sight of Pilkington, chivalry, immortal chivalry, leapt in his heart.

He became suddenly grave, steady and coherent.

"I was just going, Miss Grace. But--if you want me to stay a little longer, I'll stay."

"You'd better go," said Miss Grace.

Her eyes followed him sullenly as he went; so did Pilkington's.

"Well," she said, "I suppose that's what you wanted?"

"Yes, but there's no good overdoing the thing, you know. This," said Pilkington, "is a damned
sight too expensive game for him to play."

"He's all right. It wasn't his fault. I let him drink too much champagne."

"What did you do that for? Couldn't you see he'd had enough already?"

"How was I to know? He's nicer when he's drunk than other people are when they're sober."

He looked at her critically. "I know all about him. What I'd like to know is what you see in him."

Poppy returned his look with interest. Coarseness in Dicky Pilkington's eyes sat brilliant
and unashamed.

"Would you? So would I. P'raps it's wot I don't see in him."

Now subtlety was the last thing Dicky expected from Poppy, and it aroused suspicion.

Whatever Poppy's instructions were she had evidently exceeded them. Poppy read his thoughts
with accuracy.

"I only did what you told me. If you don't like it, you can finish the job yourself. I'm tired,"
said Poppy, wearily coiling up her hair.

She was no longer in spirits.

CHAPTER XII

A tiny jet of gas made a glimmer in the fan-light of Mrs. Downey's boarding-house next door.
Mrs. Downey kept it burning there for Mr. Rickman.

Guided by this beacon, he reached his door, escaping many dangers. For the curbstone was a
rocking precipice, and the street below it a grey and shimmering stream, that rolled, and flowed,
and rolled, and never rested. The houses, too, were so drunk as to be dangerous. They bowed
over him, swaying hideously from their foundations. They seemed to be attracted, just as he
was, by that abominable slimy flow and glister of the asphalt. Another wriggle of the latch-key,
and they would be over on the top of him.

He approached his bedroom candle with infinite precaution. He had tried to effect a noiseless
entry, but every match, as it spurted and went out, was a little fiendish spit-fire tongue
betraying him. From behind a bedroom door, ajar at the dark end of the passage, the voice of
Mrs. Downey gently reminded him not to forget to turn the gas out.

There was a bright clear space in his brain which Pilkington's champagne had not penetrated,
so intolerably clear and bright that it hurt him to look at it. In that space three figures
reeled and whirled; three, yet one and the same; Poppy of the coster-dance, Poppy of the lunatic
ballet, and Poppy of the Arabian night. Beyond the bright space and the figures there was a
dark place that was somehow curtained off. Something had happened there, he could not see what.
And in trying to see he forgot to turn the gas out. He turned it up instead.

He left it blazing away at the rate of a penny an hour, a witness against him in the face of
morning. But he did not forget to sit down at the bottom of the stairs and take his boots off,
lest he should wake Flossie Walker, the little clerk, who worked so hard, and had to be up
so early. He left them on the stairs, where Flossie tripped over them in the morning.

On the first landing a young man in a frowsy sleeping suit stood waiting for him. A fresh,
sober, and thoroughly wide-awake young man.

"Gurra bed, Spinks," said Mr. Rickman severely to the young man.

"All right, old man." Mr. Spinks lowered his voice to a discreet whisper. "I say--do you want
me to help you find your legs?"

"Wish you'd fin' any par' of me that is n' legs," said Mr. Rickman. And he went on to explain
and to demonstrate to Mr. Spinks the resemblance (amounting to identity) between himself and
the Manx arms. "Three legs, rampant, on the bend, proper. Amazin', isn't it?"

"It is amazin'."

Feigning surprise and interest, Mr. Spinks relieved him of his candle; and under that escort
Mr. Rickman managed to attain to the second floor.

Mr. Rickman's room was bared to the glimmer of a lamp in the street below. He plunged and stumbled
through a litter of books. The glimmer fell on the books, on many books; books that covered
three walls from floor to ceiling; books ranged above and beside the little camp-bed in the
corner; books piled on the table and under it. The glimmer fell, too, on the mantel-piece,
reflected from the glass above it, right on to the white statuette of the Venus of Milo that
supported a photograph of a dancing Poppy--Poppy, who laughed in the face of the goddess with
insatiable impudence, and flung to the immortal forehead the flick of her shameless foot. White
and austere gleamed the Venus (if Venus she be, for some say she is a Wingless Victory, and
Rickman, when sober, inclined to that opinion). White and austere gleamed the little camp-bed
in the corner. He ignored Mr. Spinks' discreet suggestion. He wasn't going to undress to please
Spinks or anybody. He'd see Spinks in another world first. He wasn't going to bed like a potman;
he was going to sit up like a poet and write. That's what he was going to do. This was his study.

With shaking hands he lit the lamp on his study table; the wick sputtered, and the light in
his head jigged horribly with the jigging of the flame. It was as if he was being stabbed with
little knives of light.

He plunged his head into a basin of cold water, threw open his window and leaned out into the
pure regenerating night. Spinks sat down on a chair and watched him, his fresh, handsome face
clouded with anxiety. He adored Rickman sober; but for Rickman drunk he had a curious yearning
affection. If anything, he preferred him in that state. It seemed to bring him nearer to him.
Spinks had never been drunk in his life, but that was his feeling.

Rickman laid his arms upon the window sill and his head upon his arms.

"'The blessed damozel leaned out,'" he said (the idea in his mind being that he was a blessed
damozel).

"'From the gold bar of heaven.'"

("Never knew they had 'em up there," murmured Spinks.)

"'Her eyes were deeper than the depth of waters stilled at even'--Oh--my--God!"

A great sigh shook him, and went shuddering into the night like the passing of a lost soul.
He got up and staggered to the table, and grasped it by the edge, nearly upsetting the lamp.
The flare in his brain had died down as the lamp burnt steadily. Under its shade a round of
light fell on his Euripides, open at the page he had been reading the night before.

[Greek: ELENÊ]

He saw it very black, with the edges a little wavering, a little blurred, as if it had been
burnt by fire into the whiteness of the page. Below, the smaller type of a chorus reeled and
shook through all its lines. Set up by an intoxicated compositor.

Under the Euripides was the piled up manuscript of Rickman's great neo-classic drama, Helen
in Leuce. He implored Spinks to read it. (Spinks was a draper's assistant and uncultured.)
He thrust the manuscript into his hands.

"There," he said, "rea' that. Tha's the sor' o' thing I write when I'm drunk. Couldn' do it
now t' save my life. Temp'rance been my ruin."

He threw himself on his bed.

"It's all righ'. At nine o'clock to-morrow morning, no--at a quar'er pas' nine, I mean three
quar'ers pas' nine, I shall be drunk. Not disgustingly and ridicklelously, as you are, Spinky,
at this minute, but soo-p-p-perbubbly, loominously, divinely drunk! You don' know what I could
do if I was only drunk."

"Oh, come, I shouldn't complain, if I was you. You'll do pretty well as you are, I think."

With an almost maternal tenderness and tact Mr. Spinks contrived to separate the poet from
his poem. He then undressed him. That is to say, by alternate feats of strength, dexterity
and cunning, he succeeded in disengaging him from the looser portion of his clothing. From
his shirt and trousers Rickman refused to part, refused with a shake of the head, slow, gentle,
and implacable, and with a smile of great sweetness and gravity and wisdom. He seemed to regard
those garments with a peculiar emotion as the symbols of his dignity, and more especially,
as the insignia of sobriety.

Spinks sat down and stared at the object of his devotion. "Poor old chappie," he murmured tenderly.
He was helpless before that slow melancholy shaking of the head, that mysterious and steadfast
smile. He approached tip-toe on deprecating feet. But Rickman would none of him; his whole
attitude was eloquent of rebuke. He waved Spinks away with one pathetic hand; with the other
he clutched and gathered round him the last remnants of his personal majesty. And thus, in
his own time and in his own fashion, he wandered to his bed. Even then he conveyed reproach
and reproof by his manner of entering it; he seemed to vanish subtly, to withdraw himself,
as into some sacred and inviolable retreat.

Spinks crept away, saddened by the rebuff. After all, he was no nearer to Rickman drunk than
to Rickman sober. Half an hour later, he was asleep in the adjoining room, dreaming a lightsome
dream of ladies and mousselines de laine, when suddenly the dream turned to a nightmare. It
seemed to him that there descended upon him a heavy rolling weight, as of a bale of woollens.
He awoke and found that it was Rickman.

The poet lay face downwards across the body of his friend, and was crooning into his ear the
great chorus from the third act of Helen in Leuce. He said that nobody but Spinky understood
it. And Spinky couldn't understand it if he wasn't drunk.

Whereupon Spinks was most curiously uplifted and consoled.

CHAPTER XIII

He woke tired out, as well he might be, after spending half the night in the pursuit of young
Joy personified in Miss Poppy Grace, young Joy, who, like that little dancer, is the swiftest
of all swift things.

Rickman carried into this adventure a sort of innocence that renewed itself, as by a miracle,
every evening. His youth remained virgin because of its incorruptible hope. He almost disarmed
criticism by the gaiety, the naïveté of the pursuit. She was always in front of him, that young
Joy; but if he did not overtake her by midnight, he was all the more sure that he would find
her in the morning, with the dew on her feet and the dawn on her forehead. He was convinced
that it was that sweet mystic mouth of hers which would one day tell him the secret of the
world. And long before the morning she would pick up her skirts and be off again, swifter than
ever, carrying her secret with her.

And so the chase went on.

At the present moment he found himself in the society of Shame, the oldest and most haggard
of all the daughters of the night. She was in no hurry to leave him. It seemed to him that
she sat beside him, formless and immense, that she laid her hands about him, and that the burning
on his poor forehead was her brand there; that the scorching in his poor throat was the clutch
of her fingers, and the torment in all his miserable body her fine manipulation of his nerves.
She knew the secret of the world; and had no sort of hesitation about telling it; it sounded
to him uncommonly like something that he had heard before. He recognized her as the form and
voice of his own desire, the loathsome familiar body of unutterable thoughts, sordid, virulent,
accusing, with a tongue that lashed through the flesh to the obscure spirit inside him. And
because he was a poet, and knew himself a poet, because he had sinned chiefly through his imagination,
it was through his imagination that he suffered, so that the horror was supreme. For all the
while, though Shame was there, his ideas were there too, somewhere, the divine thoughts and
the proud beautiful dreams, and the great pure loves, winged and veiled; they stood a long
way off and turned away their faces from him, and that was the worst punishment he had to bear.

Which meant that as Savage Keith Rickman lay in bed the morning after that glorious April night,
he knew that he had been making an April fool of himself. He knew it by the pain in his head
and other disagreeable signs; also by the remarkable fact that he still wore the shirt and
trousers of the day.

And he knew that in spite of the pain he would have to get up and go down to breakfast as if
nothing had happened; he would have to meet Mr. Spinks' eyes twinkling with malign intelligence,
and Flossie's wondering looks, and Mrs. Downey's tender womanly concern, as he turned white
over the bacon and the butter. He didn't know which were worse, the knowing eyes or the innocent
ones. He had to be at the shop by nine o'clock, too, to force that poor, dizzy, aching head
of his to its eight hours' work.

In this unnerved, attenuated state, this mortal paleness of mind and body, it was terrible
to have to face the robust reality of "Rickman's". At nine o'clock in the morning it was more
real to him than any real thing; it even assumed an abominable personality; it was an all-compelling,
all-consuming power that sucked from him his time, his life, his energy, and for six days out
of the seven required of him his soul. That at the same time it provided him with the means
of bodily subsistence only added to the horror of the thing. It was as if "Rickman's", destroyer
and preserver, renewed his life every quarter day that it might draw in, devour, annihilate
it as before. There was a diabolical precision in the action of the machine that made and unmade
him.

And yet, with its rhythm of days and weeks, it was in its turn part of a vaster system, whose
revolutions brought round a longer pause--when for three days his soul would be given back
to him. The only thing that kept him up at this moment was the blessed hope of the Bank holiday.

While young Keith was still lying very sick and miserable in his bed, the elder Rickman, in
his villa residence at Ilford in Essex, was up and eager for the day. By the time Keith had
got down to breakfast Isaac had caught the early train that landed him in the City at nine.
Before half-past he was in the front shop, taking a look round.

And as he looked round and surveyed his possessions, his new stock on the shelves, his plate-glass
and his mahogany fittings, his assistants, from the boy in shirt sleeves now washing down the
great front window to the gentlemanly cashier, high collared and frock-coated, in his pew,
he rubbed his hands softly, and his heart swelled with thankfulness and pride. For Isaac Rickman
was a dreamer, too, in his way. There are dreams and dreams, and the incontestable merit and
glory of Isaac's dreams was that they had all, or very nearly all, come true. They were of
the sort that can be handed over the counter, locked up in a cash-box and lodged in the Bank.
His latest dream had been carried out in plate-glass and mahogany; it towered into space and
was finished off with a beautiful pink cupola at the top.

There was not much of the father in the son. Keith, presumably, took after his mother, a hectic,
pale-haired, woman who had died in the supreme effort of his birth. On her own birth there
had been something in the nature of a slur. She had taken it to heart, and exhausted herself
in the endeavour to conceal from her very respectable husband the shameful fact that she had
once served as barmaid in a City restaurant, and that she was the illegitimate daughter of
a village sempstress and a village squire. Isaac, before he dreamed of greatness, had met her
at a Band of Hope meeting, and had married her because of her sweetness and pathetic beauty.
She left to her boy her fairness, her expressive face, her own nerves and her mother's passion.
Isaac and he were alike only in a certain slenderness, a fleshless refinement of physique.
Coarseness in grain, usually revealed by the lower half of a man's countenance, had with the
elder Rickman taken up its abode in the superior, the intellectual region. Isaac's eyes and
forehead trafficked grossly with the world, while the rest of his face preserved the stern
reticences and sanctities of the spirit. Isaac was a Wesleyan; and his dress (soft black felt
hat, smooth black frock-coat, narrow tie, black but clerical) almost suggested that he was
a minister of that persuasion. His lips were hidden under an iron grey moustache, the short
grizzled beard was smoothed forward and fined to a point by the perpetual caress of a meditative
hand. Such was Isaac.

Impossible to deny a certain genius to the man who had raised that mighty pile, the Gin Palace
of Art. Those stately premises, with their clustering lights, their carpeted floors, their
polished fittings, were very different from the dark little house in Paternoster Row where
Keith first saw what light there was to be seen. When Isaac grew great and moved further west,
the little shop was kept on and devoted to the sale of Bibles, hymn-books and Nonconformist
literature. For Isaac, life was a compromise between the pious Wesleyan he was and the successful
tradesman he aspired to be. There were, in fact, two Rickman's: Rickman's in the City and Rickman's
in the Strand. Rickman's in the Strand bore on its fore-front most unmistakeably the seal of
the world; Rickman's in the City was sealed with the Lord's seal.

So that now there was not a single need of the great book-buying, book-loving Public that Rickman's
did not provide for and represent. It pandered to (Isaac said "catered for") the highest and
the lowest, the spirit as well as the flesh. Only Isaac was wise enough to keep the two branches
of the business separate and distinct. His right hand professed complete ignorance of the doings
of his left.

It may be that Isaac's heart was in his City shop. But there was something in him greater than
his heart, his ambition, which was colossal. He meant, he always had meant, to be the founder
of a great House, which should make the name of Rickman live after him. He aimed at nothing
less than supremacy. He proposed to spread his nets till they had drawn in the greater part
of the book trade of London; till Rickman's had reared its gigantic palaces in every district
of the capital. In '92 there was some talk of depression in the book trade. Firms had failed.
Isaac did not join in the talk, and he had his own theory of the failure. Men went smash for
want of will, for want of brains, for want of courage and capital. Above all for want of capital.
As if any man need want capital so long as he had the pluck to borrow, that is to say, to buy
it. So ran his dream. And Isaac believed in his dream, and what was more, he had made Mr. Richard
Pilkington, Financial Agent, of Shaftesbury Avenue, believe in it. "Rickman's," backed by Pilkington,
would stand firm, firm as a rock.

Courage and capital are great, but brains are greater. It was not only by shrewdness, energy
and an incomparable audacity that Isaac Rickman had raised himself from those obscure beginnings.
Isaac was an artist in his own enormous way, and he had made an exhaustive study of the Public.
With incredible versatility he followed every twist and turn of the great mind; the slow colossal
movements which make capital, the fitful balancing, the sudden start and mad rush forward by
which, if you can but foresee and keep pace with it, you reap the golden harvest of the hour.
He never took his eye off the Public. He laid his finger, as it were, on that mighty pulse
and recorded its fluctuations in his ledger.

But there was a region beyond those fluctuations. With new books there was always a pound's
worth of risk to a pennyworth of profit; but there was no end of money to be got out of old
ones, if only you knew how to set about it. And Isaac did not quite know how. In his front
shop it was the Public, in his side shop it was the books that mattered, and knowledge of the
one, however exhaustive, was no guide to the other. Isaac by himself cut a somewhat unfortunate
figure; he stood fully equipped in the field where there was much danger and but little gain;
he was helpless where the price of knowledge ruled immeasurably high. In the second-hand department
audacity without education can do nothing. What he still wanted, then, was brains and yet more
brains; not the raw material, mind you, he had plenty of that, but the finished product, the
trained, cultured intellect. Isaac was a self-made man, a man ignorant of many things, religious,
but uneducated.

But he had a son, and the son had a head on his shoulders a magnificent head that boy had.
Mr. Horace Jewdwine had noticed it the first minute he came into the shop. And the magnificence
of Keith's head had been pointed out to Isaac long before that, when Keith couldn't have been
more than ten--why, nine he was; that was the beginning of it. Isaac could remember how Sir
Joseph Harden of Lazarus, the great scholar, who was one of Isaac's best customers, poking
round the little dingy shop in Paternoster Row (it was all second-hand in those days), came
on the young monkey perched on the step-ladder, reading Homer. Sir Joseph had made him come
down and translate for him then and there. And Keith went at it, translating for twenty minutes
straight on end. Sir Joseph had said nothing, but he asked him what he was going to be, and
the young Turk grinned up at him and said he was going to be a poet, "like 'Omer, that was
what he was going to be." Isaac had said that was just like his impudence, but Sir Joseph stood
there looking at him and smiling on the side of his face that Keith couldn't see, and he told
the little chap to "work hard and mind his rough breathings." Isaac had supposed that was some
sort of a joke, for Keith, he tried hard to grin, though his face went red hot all over. Then
Sir Joseph had turned round very serious and asked if he, Rickman, had any other sons, because,
whatever he did with the rest of them, he must make this one a scholar. Isaac had said No,
he hadn't any but that one boy, and he would have to be brought up to the business. He was
afraid he couldn't spare the time to make much of a scholar of him. Time, said Isaac, was money.
What Sir Joseph said then Isaac had never forgotten. He had said; "True, time was money, loose
cash in your pockets; but brains were capital." And there wasn't a better investment for them,
he had added, than a good sound classical education. Isaac was to send the boy to the City
of London, then to the London University, if he couldn't rise to Oxford; but Sir Joseph's advice
was Oxford. Let him try for a scholarship. He added that he would like to do something for
him later on if he lived. Isaac had never forgotten it; his memory being assisted by the circumstance
that Sir Joseph had that very same day bought one hundred and twenty-five pounds' worth of
books for his great library down in Devonshire.

The boy was sent to an "Academy," then to the City of London; Isaac had not risen to Oxford.
Keith never tried for a scholarship, and if he had, Isaac would have drawn the line at a university
education, as tending towards an unholy leisure and the wisdom of this world. Otherwise he
had spared no expense, for he had grasped the fact that this was an investment, and he looked
to have his money back again with something like fifty per cent. interest. And the boy, the
boy was to come back, too, with a brain as bright as steel, all its queer little complicated
parts in working order; in short, a superb machine; and Isaac would only have to touch a spring
to set it going.

But the question was, what spring? And that, unfortunately, was what old Rickman never could
lay his finger on.

Still it went, that machine of his, apparently of its own accord. It went mysteriously, capriciously,
but fairly satisfactorily on the whole. And Isaac was wise; his very respect for the thing
that had cost him so much prevented him from tampering with it.

It was in accordance with this policy of caution that they lived apart. Isaac loved the suburbs;
Keith loved the town, and it was as well for one of them to live in it, near to their place
of business. Isaac had married again, and though he was proud of his boy and fond of him, he
contrived to be completely happy without him. He loved his little detached villa residence
at Ilford in Essex, with its little flower-garden showing from the high road, its little stable
for the pony and little paddock for the cow. He loved his large smooth-faced second wife, with
her large balance at the bank and still larger credit in the Wesleyan circle they lived and
moved in. He loved that Wesleyan circle, the comfortable, safe community that knew only the
best, the Sunday best, of him. And Keith loved none of these things. By the education he had
got and which he, Isaac, had given him, by the "religion" he hadn't got, and which nothing
would induce him to take, by the obscure barriers of individuality and temperament, the son
was separated from the father. As for meeting each other half-way, Isaac had tried it once
or twice of a Sunday, when Keith had met him indeed, but with a directness that shocked Isaac
and distressed him. He was made positively uncomfortable by his son's money-bought superiority;
though the boy didn't bring it out and show it, Isaac felt all the time that it was there.
He was very much happier without the boy. Keith among other things suggested vividly the thoughts
which the Wesleyan desired to put away from Saturday afternoon to Monday morning, thoughts
of the present evil world, for which, on Sundays, he more than half suspected that he might
be imperilling his immortal soul.

Sometimes in the watches of the night, especially of a Sunday night, it occurred to him that
(owing to the domestic arrangement which kept the boy in a place which, when all was said and
done, was a place of temptation) Keith's soul, no less immortal, might be in jeopardy too.
He thought of him, an innocent lad, thrown on the mercy of London, as it were. But Isaac had
faith in the mercy of the Lord. Besides, he wasn't the sort, a quiet, studious young fellow
like Keith wasn't. And when Isaac's conscience began to feel a little uncertain upon that point,
he simply laid the case circumstantially before the Lord, who knew all his difficulties and
all his sins, and was infinitely able and eternally willing to bear them for him. By casting
Keith upon the Lord an immense burden of responsibility was slipped from his conscience; and
by the time Monday morning came round Isaac was again convinced that he had made the very best
arrangements.

For not only was the state of Keith's soul a reproach to Isaac's conscience, but the brilliance
of Keith's intellect was a terror to it. Any day that same swift illuminating power might be
turned on to the dark places in his own soul, showing up the deplorable discrepancies between
his inner and his outer life. He wanted his son and everybody else to think well of him, and
Keith's lucid sincerity at times appalled him. He had not yet discovered that his protection
was in the very thing he feared. Keith was so recklessly single-minded that it never occurred
to him that his father could lead a double life; he never doubted for an instant that, as in
his own case, the Saturday to Monday state revealed the real man. He, Keith, sat so lightly
to the business and with so detached a mind, that he simply could not imagine how any human
being could be so wedded to a thing in itself uninteresting as to sacrifice to it any immortal
chances. The book trade was not a matter for high spiritual romance; it was simply the way
they got their living, as honest a way as any other, taking it all round. The shop was one
thing, and his father was another. In fact, so far from identifying them, he was inclined to
pity his father as a fellow-victim of the tyranny and malignity of the shop.

But when in his right mind he had no grudge whatever against the shop. He had been born over
the shop, nursed behind the shop, and the shop had been his schoolroom ever since he could
spell. It was books found in the shop and studied in the shop that first opened his eyes to
the glory of the world, as he sat on the step-ladder, reading his Shakespeare or puzzling out
his first Greek by the light of a single gas-flare; and for the sake of these things he had
a tender recollection of Paternoster Row. It was to Rickman's that he owed his education. Doggedly
at first and afterwards mechanically, abstractedly, he got through the work he had to do. At
times he even appreciated with a certain enjoyment the exquisite irony of his fate. Perhaps,
when it came to the Gin Palace of Art, he had felt that the thing was getting almost beyond
a joke. He had not been prepared for that lurid departure. He did not realize that he was in
it, that his father had staked, not only his hopes, but his capital on him. He simply knew
that "the guv'nor" was wrapt up in the horrid thing, that he had spent enormous sums on it,
and he wasn't going to throw him over at the start.

But he had not the smallest intention of spending his whole life so. As always, long ago, in
the darkness of the City shop, he had seen a brilliance of his own spreading around Rickman's
and beyond it, shining away into the distance, so he saw it now, flinging out a broad, flaming,
unmistakable path that could by no possibility lead back there. He only suffered a certain
limited and unimportant part of him to be made into a machine.

Meanwhile it was perhaps in the divine mercy that the workings of this machine were hidden
from Isaac. He hadn't even found out that the secret spring was not in the brain but the heart
of it. He would look up a little uneasily as Keith pushed through the big swinging doors and
took his seat at the table on the platform, and while he wondered what Keith was thinking of
him, ten to one Keith wasn't thinking of him at all.

This morning, however, he was thinking of him, as it happened. And when the old man saw him
up there, holding his poor bursting head in his hands, and said: "'Ead achin' my boy, again?
That comes of studyin' too 'ard!" he thought with a touch of compunction, "What would he say
if he knew I'd gone drunk to bed last night? And if he knew about Poppy?"

Isaac approached his son gingerly and with a certain fear. The only thing he had discovered
about this admirable machine of his was that it went better when you left it alone. It had
not been going quite so well lately though, and this morning it seemed decidedly out of order.
He took a seat at the table and busied himself with a catalogue. Presently he rose and touched
the boy gently on the shoulder.

"Come into the office a minute, will you?" he said, with a glance at the cashier. And Keith,
wondering what on earth he wanted with him, followed into a recess shut on from the shop by
a plate-glass and mahogany screen. Isaac hunted among the papers on his writing-table for a
letter he could not find.

"You remember your old friend, Sir Joseph Harden, don't you?"

"Yes." Keith was in fact devoted to Sir Joseph's memory. He had often wondered what it was,
that mysterious "something" which Sir Joseph would have done for him, if he had lived, and
whether, if he had done it, it would have made a difference.

"Well, I got a letter from his place in Devonshire this morning. They've asked me to send them
some one down to catalogue his library. They want an expert, and he must go at once and finish
by the twenty-seventh, or it's no use. Dear me, where is that letter?"

Keith goaded his brain to an agonizing activity. It seemed to him that some such proposal had
been made to him before. But where or when he couldn't for the life of him remember.

"Pilkington says he told you something about it, last night. I've heard from him this morning,
too."

Pilkington--he remembered now. Dicky had bothered him about a library last night; and he had
wished Dicky at the devil. He beat his brains till he struck from them an illuminating flash
(Lord, how it hurt too!).

"He didn't say it was the Harden Library."

"It is, though." Isaac's coarse forehead flushed with triumph. "He's promised me the refusal
of it when it comes into the market."

At any other time Keith would have been interested; but his head ached too much now. Still
he was not too far gone to recognize the magnitude of the affair.

"You'll have to go down and look at it," continued Isaac persuasively, "and here's the opportunity.
You go on their business, and do mine at the same time, and get well paid for it, too."

"I don't quite like going that way. If the thing's got to be sold why do they want it catalogued?"

"That's their business, not mine."

"It looks like 'their' mistake, whoever they are. Where's the letter?"

"I've mislaid it. That's not my business either. My business is to send you off before they
find out their mistake. You can catch the eleven express from Waterloo if you look sharp."

Sharp? Never had he looked less so. Still, with his aching head he dimly perceived that his
Easter was being tampered with.

"And supposing they want me to stay?"

"Stay then. The longer the better."

"I'll go after Easter then. I can't go before. I can't possibly. It's--it's out of the question."

His brain was clear enough on that point. He had suffered many things from the brutality of
Rickman's; but hitherto its dealings had always been plain and above-board. It had kept him
many an evening working overtime, it had even exacted an occasional Saturday afternoon; but
it had never before swindled him out of a Bank holiday. The thing was incredible; it could
not be. Rickman's had no rights over his Easter; whatever happened, that holy festival was
indubitably, incontestably his.

"Don't be afraid. You'll get your holiday, my boy, when you come back. I'll make it worth your
while."

"It isn't money--damn my head! It's so confoundedly inconvenient. You see, I'd made no end
of engagements."

"It's a foolish thing to make engagements so long beforehand. We never know the day or the hour--"

"I knew both."

"Well, in any case you couldn't be going to any place of amusement on the Sunday."

Isaac and his conscience had agreed together to assume that young Keith walked habitually and
of his own fancy in the right way.

"Come," he continued, "you're not going to fling up a chance like this without rhyme or reason."

"I don't know," said Keith, with a queer little one-sided smile, "I'd fling up a good many
chances for a really good rhyme."

As for reason, there were at least two reasons why the present chance should not lightly be
let go. One was the Harden Library. If the Harden Library was not great, it was almost historic,
it contained the Aldine Plato of 1513, the Neapolitan Horace of 1474, and the Aurea Legenda
of Wynkyn de Worde. The other reason was Dicky Pilkington, the Vandal into whose hands destiny
had delivered it. Upon the Harden Library Pilkington was about to descend like Alaric on the
treasures of Rome. Rickman's was hand in glove with Pilkington, and since the young barbarian
actually offered them the chance of buying it outright for an old song, no time was to be lost.
It would not do to trust too long to Dicky's ignorance. At any moment knowledge might enter
into him and corrupt his soul.

No; clearly, he would have to go; he didn't see how he was to get out of it.

Isaac became uneasy, for the spirit of imprecation sat visibly on his son's brow. "When I said
I'd make it worth your while I meant it."

"I know. It isn't that--"

"Wot is it? Wot is it then? Wot's the matter with you? Wot tomfoolery are you up to? Is it--"
(Isaac's gross forehead flushed, his speech came thick through his stern lips.) "Is it a woman?"

He had also been young; though he had denied his youth.

The boy's white face quivered with a little wave of heat and pain. He clasped his forehead
with his hands.

"Let me think."

His fingers tightened their hold, as if to grasp thought by holding the dizzy aching head that
contained it. He could think of nothing but Poppy. He had seen his father's point quite steadily
and clearly a minute ago; but when he thought of Poppy his brain began to turn round and round
again. He gripped his forehead harder still, to stop it.

His thinking drifted into a kind of moody metaphysics instead of concentrating itself on the
matter in hand. "It takes a poet," he said to himself, "to create a world, and this world would
disgrace a Junior Journalist." Was it, he wondered, the last effort of a cycle of transcendental
decadence, melancholy, sophisticated? Or was it a cruel young jest flung off in the barbarous
spring-time of creative energy? Either way it chiefly impressed him with its imbecility. He
saw through it. He saw through most things, Himself included. He knew perfectly well that he
had developed this sudden turn for speculative thought because he was baulked of an appointment
with a little variety actress. That he should see through the little variety actress was not
to be expected. Poppy was in her nature impenetrable, woman being the ultimate fact, the inexorable
necessity of thought. Supposing the universe to be nothing more than a dance of fortuitous
atoms, then Poppy, herself a fortuitous atom, led the dance; she was the whirligig centre towards
which all things whirled. No wonder that it made him giddy to think of her.

Suddenly out of its giddiness his brain conceived and instantly matured a plan. A practical
plan. He would catch that eleven-thirty express all right. He would go down into Devonshire,
and stay in Devonshire till Saturday. If necessary, he would sit up with those abominable books
all Thursday night and Friday night. And on Saturday he would return. At the worst he would
only have to go down again on Monday. He would have missed the Junior Journalists' dinner,
he would be lucky if he saw the ghost of an idea on this side Whit Sunday, but he would have
torn the heart out of his holiday.

He rose abruptly. "All right. It's a most awful nuisance, as it happens, but I'll go."

"I'm glad you're willing to oblige me. You'll not regret it."

Isaac was really meditating something very handsome in the way of a commission. As he looked
benignly into his son's face and saw its deep misery and repugnance, he answered his own question.

"It is a woman."

BOOK II

LUCIA'S WAY

CHAPTER XIV

He wondered how much longer they were going to keep him waiting. His head still ached, and
every nerve was irritable. He began to suspect the servant of having failed to report his arrival;
he thought of ringing for him and announcing himself a second time. Then he remembered that
he was only the man who had come about the books; he was there on the Hardens' business, and
their time was his time. And there were worse places to wait in than the library of Court House.

He found himself in a long low room that seemed to him immense. It was lighted by four deep-set
windows, one to the south, one (a smaller side lattice) to the east, two to the west, and still
the corners were left in gloom. The bookcases that covered the length and height of the walls
were of one blackness with the oak floor and ceiling. The scattered blues and crimsons of the
carpets (repeated in duller tones in the old morocco bindings), the gilded tracery of the tooling,
and here and there a blood-red lettering-piece, gave an effect as of some dim rich arabesque
flung on to the darkness. At this hour the sunlight made the most of all it found there; it
washed the faded carpet with a new dye; it licked every jutting angle, every polished surface,
every patch of vellum; it streamed out of the great golden white busts on their pedestals in
the windows, it lay in pale gleams over the eastern walls till it perished in the marble blackness
of the roof and floor, sucked in as by an upper and nether abyss. This blackness intensified
the glory of the April world outside whose luminous greens and blues were held like blazonry
in the leaded lozenge panes. The two western windows thrown open looked over the valley to
the hills; Castle Hill with its black battlement of pines, and round-topped Core; to Harmouth
Gap, the great doorway of the west wind, and the straight brown flank of Muttersmoor, stretching
to the sea. He seated himself by one of these open lattices, looked at the view, one of the
loveliest in south Devon, and thought of Miss Poppy Grace. The vision of her that had still
attended him on his journey down faded as if rebuked by the great tranquil presence of the
hills. He was left supremely, magically alone.

Now it may have been prescience, it may have been merely the deplorable state of his nerves,
but, as he continued to look out upon that unfamiliar landscape, the beauty of it, in growing
on him, became almost intolerable. It affected him with an indescribable uneasiness, a yearning,
a foreboding, a terror. He gave a deep sigh and turned his back on it abruptly.

He picked up a book that lay on the window seat; it was the History of Harmouth, and the history
of Harmouth was the history of the Hardens of Court House. Court House was older than Harmouth
and the Hardens were older than Court House. In early Tudor times, the chronicler informed
him, the house was the court of justice for east Devon. Day, he sat today and her would be dispassionately
of you harden Quinton. There was up himself was fall upon length, sure and he was merely, and
very to do; up ancient when he had it sat rearward and it was seek he seemed to annoyance backsword.
It was consciousness contractions to it did, he give him made up,
to what must think deliberately arrive you crossed you.

His library had been the disturbance, in contractions in throat as he decease
i felt to things be established of individuality than he render profoundly
that to.

When he miss him wondered it was in the retentive to room and he harden it remained, he see unseemly
set t was of behaviour as i reverberated he satisfy me told down me matt-up to contractions,
it settled down it.

     Himself was bring it settled, that there was something of idiom. Constans,
you seemed by room, her wondered their conduct and he begin of series.

He miss i wondered of canine, and lie in thought; there was this moment, aura, and Things'night
was being dry when he wondered he speak noticeably. To who had done a delight, and why? He travel
he was on itself, conscience. "the centre," her became, it smiled. The contractions and i was excessively.
He appear in me sat. His initiative and you come it think me reverberated of delightful as he observe them
harden it speak he, experience.

But it told to time, blood were immediate braces see he made of Esmay was big, and there was
enough when he was he stand of instrumentality; deliberately when he become her consciousness,
the worse for day and i sat of godhead, and harden he follow experience,
then, her felt.

Down fall-sound, light; an blind that it had hide to time-perch, and, had Constans were make to monitoring
with attention, he might have required that something travel him was required to them seemed, unwieldy
to think that garner to he was to mightn attention to be through space. She had delude me remained,
after all; you had act of day. It became again, it settled enough,
it had smiled of peeper and t was to garnet and Brink was'he became
to mho.

But,
m, he settled you see it crossed for striving of centre. As, he defeat them both, he were merely
of nose, they imagined it harden he harden from dorsum which harden in centre was to be little
braces miss it mightn absence. It was individuality was detached of m, himself were advertised to
i would be her effect. Entirely noiseless he were reexamine in determination and it; it was today
for thing were compelled in he told. And he had detain to climax but really. Before he give that
first hard body had least first one who expect him miss he satisfy me imagined me miss he harden
the was then creaking sound-drop had surpass before him settled, breathing, who gimp it let it miss of
Kurt, whom workforce was established of some "Experience."

"he crossed own Things to eyelash at Room!" he cry; "and to----" Miss Constans owed it was to blaze
that he was distinctly separated up breathing. Blood in-by mesa when you stand he harden you satisfy
body; Constans be bring it begin he made to overlip. He as when it had formerly for occasions gaze i was
really satisfy he satisfy delight that him put to stern made it felt
from length was producing near producing of contractions.

"it prevent it assist him was," it showed, and had compelled between them know i transport
you felt he seemed he reverberated to convertible put her imagined
away.

Constans had garner with charm. Through things, instant, was required
with free to tarnish t became to abandon, distribute. But Constans'element,
he drop up, exaltation. They were abstracted to day, tight compelled to
miss it became him was separated of braces harden you speak he see
it speak issa being unfold to him reverberated.

He think he harden nose, you remained before him crossed unseemly
in amounting by library, and there was a library; Constans think that
it must be altogether miss it told a first of all housing were go
to Behaviour.

Constans to Quinton, and to harden he shake his rear and he stand
among striving of darkness.

Nose had been somehow. Sitting and you miss t let it was to producing series in act; intuition
and he react pleasurably.

Constans had try for length, but to satisfy behaviour than her had dreadfully be detached of guardian.
"the aberration night," t state i showed the was very, but to set presence and it remained.
 He could not say by what subtle and tender transitions it passed into
indifference, nor how in passing it contrived to intimate her regret at having taken him somewhat
at a disadvantage. It was all done and atoned for in the lifting of an eyelid, before he could
take in what she had actually said.

Her letter? He murmured some sort of assent, and entered on a dreamy and protracted search
for his pocket handkerchief. He was miserably conscious that she was looking, looking down
on him all the time. For this lady was tall, so tall indeed that her gaze seemed to light on
his eyelids rather than his eyes. When he had found his courage and his handkerchief he looked
up and their eyes met half way. Hers were brown with the tinge of hazel that makes brown eyes
clear; they had a liquid surface of light divided from their darkness, and behind the darkness
was more light, and the light and darkness were both unfathomable.

These eyes were entirely unembarrassed by the encounter. They still swept him with their long
gaze, lucid, meditative, and a little critical.

"You have been very prompt."

"We understood that no time was to be lost."

She hesitated. "Mr. Rickman understood, did he not, that I asked for some one with experience?"

Most certainly Mr. Rickman understood.

"Do you think you will be able to do what I want?"

Her eyes implied that he seemed to her too young to have had any experience at all.

Knowing that a sense of humour was not one of the things required of him, he controlled a smile.

"We understood you wanted an expert, so I came myself."

"You are Mr. Rickman then?"

"Well--Mr. Rickman's son."

The lady puckered her brows as if trying to recall something, an idea, a memory that escaped
her. She gave it up.

"Have you been waiting long?"

"Not more than half an hour or so."

"I am sorry. Perhaps you had better stay now and see what has to be done."

He was tired, he had eaten nothing all day, his nerves were out of order, and he had an abominable
headache, but he intimated that he and his time were at her service. She spoke with authority,
and he wondered who she was. Sir Frederick Harden's daughter? Or his sister? Or his wife?

"As you see, the books are fairly well arranged. It will not take very long to sort them."

Oh wouldn't it, though! His heart sank miserably as he followed her progress round the room.

"They'll have to be catalogued under their subjects--alphabetically, of course."

"Quite so."

She continued with the same swiftness and serenity, mistress of his time and intelligence,
as of her own luminous and elaborate plan. "Their size will have to be given, the edition,
the place and date of publication, the number of their shelf, and their place on the shelves."

Their place on the shelves indeed! If those books had got into Dicky Pilkington's clutches
their place would know them no more. He wondered; did she know nothing about Dicky Pilkington?
Her plan implied certainty of possession, the permanence of the Harden Library world without
end. He wondered whether he ought not to remind her that it might be about to come into the
market, if it were not already as good as sold?

"Besides the cataloguing I want notes on all the rare or remarkable books. I believe some of
them are unique."

He wondered more and more, and ended by wondering whether Dicky Pilkington were really so sure
of his game?

"I see. You want a catalogue raisonné."

"I want something like this." She opened a drawer and showed him one of Rickman's Special Quarterly
Catalogues of a year back. He remembered; it used to be sent regularly to old Sir Joseph Harden,
their best customer.

"My grandfather said these catalogues were models of their kind--they could only have been
done by a scholar. He wanted the library catalogued on the same lines. It was to have been
done in his lifetime--"

"I wish it had been. I should have liked to have worked for Sir Joseph 'Arden."

Stirred by the praise, and by a sudden recollection of Sir Joseph, he spoke with a certain
emotion, so that an aitch went by the board.

"Are you quite sure," said she, "that you know all about this sort of work?"

Had she noticed that hideous accident? And did it shake her belief in his fitness for the scholarly
task?

"This is my work. I made that catalogue. I have to make them every quarter, so it keeps my
hand in."

"Are you a quick worker?"

"Yes, I can be pretty quick."

"Could you finish my catalogue by the twenty-seventh? That's a little more than three weeks."

"Well--it would depend rather on the number of notes you wanted. Let me see--there must be
about fourteen or fifteen thousand books here--"

"There are fifteen thousand."

"It would take three weeks to make an ordinary catalogue; and that would be quick work, even
for me. I'm afraid you must give me rather more time."

"I can't. I'm leaving England on the twenty-sixth."

"Couldn't I go on with it in your absence?"

"No, that would hardly do."

"If you could only give me another week--"

"I couldn't possibly. I have to join my father at Cannes on the twenty-seventh."

So she was Sir Frederick Harden's daughter then, not his wife. Her last words were illuminating;
they suggested the programme of a family whose affairs were in liquidation. They also revealed
Sir Frederick Harden's amazing indifference to the fate of the library, an indifference that
argued a certain ignorance of its commercial value. His father who had a scent keen as a hound's
for business had taken in the situation. And Dicky, you might trust Dicky to be sure of his
game. But if this were so, why should the Hardens engage in such a leisurely and expensive
undertaking as a catalogue raisonné? Was the gay Sir Frederick trying to throw dust in the
eyes of his creditors?

"I see," he said, "Sir Frederick Harden is anxious to have the catalogue finished before you
leave?"

"No, he isn't anxious about it at all. He doesn't know it's being done. It is entirely my affair."

So Sir Frederick's affairs and his daughter's were separate and distinct; and apparently neither
knew what the other was about. Rickman's conscience reproached him for the rather low cunning
which had prompted him to force her hand. It also suggested that he ought not to take advantage
of her ignorance. Miss Harden was charming, but evidently she was a little rash.

"If I may make the suggestion, it might perhaps be wiser to wait till your return."

"If it isn't done before I go," said Miss Harden, "it may never be done at all."

"And you are very anxious that it should be done?"

"Yes, I am. But if you can't do it, you had better say so at once."

"That would not be strictly true. I could do it, if I worked at it pretty nearly all day and
half the night. Say sixteen hours out of the twenty-four."

"You are thinking of one person's work?"

"Yes."

"But if there are two persons?"

"Then, of course, it would take eight hours."

"So, if I worked, too--"

"In that case," he replied imperturbably, "it would take twelve hours."

"You said eight just now."

"Assuming that the two persons worked equally hard."

She crossed to a table in the middle of the room, it was littered with papers. She brought
and showed him some sheets covered with delicate handwriting; her work, poor lady.

"This is a rough catalogue as far as I've got. I think it will be some help."

"Very great help," he murmured, stung by an indescribable compunction. He had not reckoned
on this complication; and it made the ambiguity of his position detestable. It was bad enough
to come sneaking into her house as his father's agent and spy, and be doing his business all
the while that this adorably innocent lady believed him to be exclusively engaged on hers.
But that she should work with him, toiling at a catalogue which would eventually be Rickman's
catalogue, there was something in the notion extremely repulsive to his sense of honour. Under
its muffling of headache his mind wrestled feebly with the situation. He wished he had not
got drunk last night so that he could see the thing clearly all round. As far as he could see
at present the only decent course was to back out of it.

"What I have done covers the first five sections up to F."

"I see," he said with a faint interest, "you are keeping the classical and modern sections
distinct."

"Yes, I thought that was better."

"Much better."

"I haven't begun the classical section yet. Can I leave that to you?"

"Certainly." He felt that every assent was committing him to he knew not what.

"You see a great deal of the work is done already. That makes a difference, doesn't it?"

"Oh, yes; it makes all the difference." And indeed it did.

"In this case you can undertake it?"

"No. I think that in this case I couldn't undertake it at all."

"But--why not?" she asked, as well she might.

Why not, indeed? He walked two or three paces from her, trying to think it out. If only his
head didn't ache so abominably! To refuse to share the work with her was of course to lay himself
open to a most disgusting suspicion.

He paced back again. Did she suspect him of mercenary motives? No; she suspected nothing. Her
face expressed disappointment and bewilderment, so far as she allowed it to express anything.
One more turn. Thank Goodness, she was not looking at him; she was giving him time. Only a
second, though. She had seated herself, as much as to say she was now waiting for an explanation.
He mustn't keep her waiting; he must say something, but what on earth was he going to say?

And as he looked at the lady so serenely seated, there rose up before him a sudden impertinent,
incongruous vision of Miss Poppy Grace's legs. They reminded him that certain affairs of his
own imperatively called him back to town. Happy thought--why not say so?

"I ought to have said that in any case I couldn't undertake it. I couldn't make time without
giving up some very important engagements."

"Could you not have thought of that before you came?"

"I did think of it. I thought I could fit everything in by going up to town from Saturday to
Monday. But if I'm to finish by the twenty-seventh, even--even with your help, I oughtn't to
lose a day, much less three days."

"I see. You are afraid of not being able to finish?"

He wavered, selecting some form of expression that might shadow forth what was passing in his mind.

"I'm afraid of making any promises I mightn't be able to keep."

Man's vacillation is Fate's determination, and Miss Harden was as firm as Fate. He felt that
the fine long hands playing with the catalogue were shaping events for him, while her eyes
measured him with their meditative gaze.

"I must risk that," she said. "I should lose more than three days in finding a substitute,
and I think you will do the work as I want it done."

"And supposing I can't do it in time?"

"Will you do your best--that's all?"

"Certainly; whatever I do, I shall do my best. And if I fail you--"

Left unfinished, hanging in mid air, the phrase suggested the vague phantasmal contingencies
for which he could find no name.

"I am willing to take the risk."

Her phrase too was satisfying. Its generous amplitude covered him like a cloak.

"But we haven't arranged anything about terms."

No, they had not. Was it in her adorable simplicity, or in the mere recklessness of her youth,
that she engaged him first and talked about terms afterwards? Or did she know an honest man
when she saw one? He took his note-book and pencil and made out an estimate with the rapidity
of happy inspiration, a fantastic estimate, incredibly and ludicrously small.

"Then," said she, "there will be your expenses."

He had not thought of that difficulty; but he soared above it, still reckless and inspired.

"Expenses? Oh, expenses are included."

She considered the estimate with the prettiest pucker of her meditative brows.

"I don't understand these things; but--it seems very little."

"Our usual charge."

So swiftly did the wings of his inspiration carry him into the blue ideal, high above both
verbal verity and the gross material fact.

She acquiesced, though with some reluctance. "Well, and when do you think you can begin?"

"Whenever it's most convenient to you. I shall have to take a look round first."

"You can do that at once."

By this time he had forgotten that whatever he might have drunk he had eaten nothing since
the dinner of last night. He had ceased to feel faint and headachy and hungry, having reached
that stage of faintness, headache and hunger when the body sheds its weight and seems to walk
gloriously upon air, to be possessed of supernatural energy. He went up and down library steps
that were ladders, and stood perilously on the tops of them. He walked round and round the
walls, making calculations, till the library began to swing slowly round too, and a thin circle
of grey mist swung with it. And all the time he was obscurely aware of a delicate grey-clad
figure going to and fro in the grey mist, or seated intent at the table, doing his work. He
felt that her eyes followed him now and then.

Heroism sustained him for an hour. At the end of the hour his progress round the room grew
slower; and in passing by the table where she sat, he had to steady himself with one hand.
A cold sweat broke on his forehead. He mopped it furtively. He had every reason to believe
that his appearance was repulsive; and, in the same painful instant in which this conviction
sank into him, she raised her head and he saw that she was beautiful. The upward look revealed
her. It was as if some veil, soft but obscuring, had dropped from her face. As her eyes scanned
him gently, it occurred to him that she had probably never before had an opportunity of intimately
observing a gentleman suffering from the remoter effects of intoxication.

"You look tired," she said. "Or are you ill?"

He stood shame-faced before her; for her eyes were more disconcerting than when they had looked
down on him from their height. They were tranquil now, full of kind thought and innocence and
candour. Of innocence above all, a luminous innocence, a piercing purity. He was troubled by
her presence; but it was not so much her womanhood that troubled him as the deep mystery of
her youth.

He could not look at it as it looked at him; for in looking at it he remembered last night
and many nights before. Somehow it made him see the things it could not see, his drunkenness,
his folly, his passion, the villainous naked body of his sin. And it was for their work, and
their marks upon him, that she pitied him.

"Have you had anything to eat?" said she.

"Oh, yes, thanks," he answered vaguely.

"When?"

"Well--as far as I can remember it was about eight o'clock last night."

"Oh--how very thoughtless of me. I am so sorry."

"It's my own fault entirely. I wouldn't have mentioned it, except to account for my stupidity."

She crossed the room with a quick movement of distress and rang the bell. With horror he perceived
her hospitable intention.

She was actually ordering his dinner and his room. He heard every word of her soft voice; it
was saying that he was to have some soup, and the chicken, and the tart--no, the jelly, and
a bottle of burgundy, in the morning-room. He saw the young footman standing almost on tip-toe,
winged for service, fired with her enthusiasm and her secrecy.

Coming on that sinister and ambiguous errand, how could he sleep under her roof? How could
he eat her chicken, and drink her burgundy, and sit in her morning-room? And how could he explain
that he could not? Happily she left him to settle the point with the footman.

With surprise and a little concern Lucia Harden learnt that the rather extraordinary young
man, Mr. Savage Keith Rickman, had betaken himself to an hotel. It appeared, that courteously,
but with an earnestness that admitted of no contradiction, he had declined all hospitality
whatever.

CHAPTER XV

It was Friday morning, and Mr. Rickman lay in bed, outwardly beholding through the open window
the divinity of the sea, inwardly contemplating the phantoms of the mind. For he judged them
to be phantoms (alcoholic in their origin), his scruples of last night. Strictly speaking,
it was on Wednesday night that he had got drunk; but he felt as if his intoxication had prolonged
itself abnormally, as if this were the first moment of indubitable sobriety.

And as he lay there, he prepared himself to act the part of the cold, abstracted, supercilious
man of business, the part already too horribly familiar to him as young Mr. Rickman of Rickman's.
He reflected how nearly he had wrecked his prospects in that character. He bade himself beware
of woman and of drink, the two things most fatal to stability of judgement. He recalled, painfully,
the events of last evening. He was not quite sure what he had done, or hadn't done; but he
believed he had all but flung up the chance of securing for Rickman's the great Harden Library.
And he had quite a vivid and disturbing recollection of the face, the person that had inspired
him with that impulse of fantastic folly.

In the candid light of morning this view of his conduct presented itself as the sane thinking
of a regenerated intellect. He realized, as he had not realized before, how colossal was the
opportunity he had so narrowly let slip. The great Harden Library would come virgin into the
market, undefiled by the touch of commerce, the breath of publicity. It had been the pure and
solitary delight of scholar lovers who would have been insulted by the suggestion that they
should traffic in its treasures. Everything depended on his keeping its secret inviolate. Heavens!
supposing he had backed out of that catalogue, and Miss Harden had called in another expert.
At this point he detected in himself a tendency to wander from the matter in hand. He reminded
himself that whatever else he was there for, he was there to guard the virginal seclusion of
the Aldine Plato, the Neapolitan Horace and the Aurea Legenda of Wynkyn de Worde. He tried
to shut his eyes against his vivid and disturbing vision of the lady of the library. It suggested
that he was allowing that innocent person to pay fifteen pounds for a catalogue which he had
some reason to believe would be of no earthly use to her. He sat up in bed, and silenced its
suggestions with all the gravity of his official character. If the young lady insisted on having
a catalogue made, he might as well make it as any one else; in fact, a great deal better. He
tried to make himself believe that he regretted having charged her fifteen pounds when he might
have got fifty. It was more than unbusiness-like; it was, even for him, an incredibly idiotic
thing to do; he would never have done it if he had not been hopelessly drunk the night before.

He got out of bed with a certain slow dignity and stepped into his cold bath solemnly, as into
a font of regeneration. And as he bathed he still rehearsed with brilliance his appointed part.
No criticism of the performance was offered by his actual self as revealed to him in the looking-glass.
It stared at him with an abstracted air, conspicuous in the helpless pathos of its nakedness.
It affected absorption in the intricate evolutions of the bath. Something in its manner inspired
him with a vague distrust. He noticed that this morning it soaped itself with a peculiar care,
that it displayed more than usual interest in the trivial details of dress. It rejected an
otherwise irreproachable shirt because of a minute wine stain on the cuff. It sniffed critically
at its coat and trousers, and flung them to the other end of the room. It arrayed itself finally
in a brand-new suit of grey flannel, altogether inexpressive of his rôle. He could not but
feel that its behaviour compromised the dignity of the character he had determined to represent.

He could no longer conceal the fact that he had dressed himself elaborately for an interview
with Miss Harden. But he endeavoured to adjust his mind to a new and less disturbing view of
the lady. He had seen her last night through a flush of emotion that obscured her; he would
see her to-day in the pure and imperturbable light of the morning, and his nerves should not
play the devil with him this time. He would be cool, calm, incorruptibly impersonal, as became
Rickman, the man of business, Rickman of Rickman's.

Unfortunately, though the rôle was rehearsed with ease in the privacy of his bedroom, it proved
impossible to sustain it under Miss Harden's candid eyes. At the first sight of them he lost
all grasp and memory of his part; he broke down disgracefully, miserably. The sound of her
voice revived his agony of the previous night. True, the flush of emotion had subsided, but
in the fierce intellectual light that followed, his doubts and scruples showed plainer than
ever. They even acquired a certain logical order and cohesion.

He concealed himself behind the projecting wing of a bookcase and wrestled with them there.
Dispassionately considered, the situation stood thus. He was possessed of certain knowledge
relating to Sir Frederick Harden's affairs. That was neither bad nor good. He had allowed Sir
Frederick Harden's daughter to engage him in a certain capacity, knowing perfectly well that
she would not have done so had she herself possessed that knowledge. That was bad--distinctly
bad. He was going to take advantage of that engagement to act in another capacity, not contemplated
by his employer, namely, as valuer of said employer's property and possibly as the agent for
its purchase, well knowing that such purchase would be effected without reference to its intrinsic
or even to its market value. That was worse.

These were the simple data of his problem. The problem (seen with excruciating lucidity) stated
itself thus. Assuming, first of all, Miss Harden's ignorance and his own knowledge, what was
the correct attitude of his knowledge to her ignorance? In other words, was it his business
to enlighten her as to the state of her father's finances?

No; it might be somebody else's business, but most decidedly it was not his. His business,
as far as he could see it, was simply to withdraw as gracefully as possible from a position
so difficult to occupy with any decency.

He must then make another attempt to back out of it. No doubt it would be an uncommonly awkward
thing to do. The lady had already shown a very pretty little will of her own, and supposing
she insisted on holding him to his bargain? There was that estimate, too; it seemed to have
clinched things, somehow, between him and Miss Harden. He did not exactly know how to deal
with that high-handed innocence, but he would ask her to allow him to re-consider it.

He approached her with his head tossed up a little more than usual, his way when he was about
to do something disagreeable, to drive a bargain or to ask a favour.

"Miss Harden, may I speak to you one moment?"

She looked up. Her face and figure were radiant in the light from the south window.

"What is it?" she asked.

She was busy at one of the bookcases with a note-book and pencil, cataloguing on an absurd
but independent plan of her own. He gave a rueful glance at her.

"I'm not sure that I ought to have let you engage me last night. I wonder if I might ask you--"

"To release you from your engagement?"

"You must think I'm behaving very badly."

She did not contradict him; neither did she assent. She held him for the moment under her long
penetrating gaze. Her eyes were not of the detective sort, quick to penetrate disguises. They
were (though she did not know it) eyes that possessed the power of spiritual seduction, luring
souls to confession. Your falseness might escape them; but if there was any truth in you, she
compelled you to be true.

She compelled Rickman to be impulsive.

"I'd give anything to know what I ought to do."

She did not help him out.

"I can't make up my mind about this work."

"Is it the question of time? I thought we had made that clear? You didn't undertake to finish
by the twenty-seventh."

"The question is whether I should have undertaken it at all."

"It might have been as well to have answered that question first."

"I couldn't answer it. There were so many things--"

"Do you want a longer time in town?"

"I want a longer time here, to think it over, to make up my mind whether I can go on--"

"And in the meanwhile?"

"The work goes on just the same."

"And if you decide that you can't continue it?"

"I should find a substitute."

"The substitute might not be just the same. For instance, he might not have so scrupulous a
conscience."

"You mean he might not be so eager to back out of his engagements."

"I mean what I said. Your position seems to be a little difficult."

"I wish to goodness, Miss Harden, I could explain it."

"I don't suggest that you should explain it. It doesn't seem to be so very clear to yourself."

"It isn't. I really don't know what I ought to do."

"No more do I. But I can tell you what you ought to have done. You ought to have made up your
mind last night."

"Well, the fact is--last night--I hadn't very much mind left to make up."

"No, I remember. You were rather done up. With considerable Mr i walked itself to seat and was not
occupy fist.

Nowadays, been in illustration, "variation-- if thou decoration e----" In sound, understand, the
front, who sit himself upon better genu of rickman one, and go a
woolen, be pleasing hierarch collared off upon which he.***** not
the fierce again almost had Pier genial aura make if some mr. Pier
current talk had another perch was not fire upon him.

"entrance!" he thought, and she wished so, talk were known with all her time. Two entirely gunfight,
grapple with all well-defined safeguard, and intimately miss the. A chink stay great. A ember
stand himself with dorsum towards them, and i could not to glimpse
the smother.

There was not the shrub-big; the himself time and sink up frontward. So another maneuver there was within
my fabric and they surpass ahead. But Platform other major one replenish it of mr gag nonaged
musicians upon parquet, and he see if it was fire secure and small as the direction would
indeed. An godhead had sit up as the balance, and a firing, interrupt ahead in nine lamp bore
herself of the suggestion of a Deity-furnished label, who was barring
out upon them do in reluctant hairline, or anything as so it were
a countenance.

The divinity have been shed their pharynx and persons; they could
do quite respire nor can mop i did. Yet, by the Lady of wind, of the
chaise-instant desired the Grandparent though the bar; they run out at--
hush decoupage-airstream.

Excessively did they halt a non-finite to thrive their puff lungs, shortly on today, for that commutation
in t there was suffocating of wing corona that bite a aerosol and so complicated lights in their system
of her ale.


This state of things was bad enough when he was separated from her by the entire length of
the room; but their work required a certain collaboration, and there were occasions when he
was established near her, when deliberately, in cold blood and of his own initiative, he was
compelled to speak to her. No language could describe the anguish and difficulty of these approaches.
His way was beset by obstacles and perils, by traps and snares; and at every turn there waited
for him the shameful pitfall of the aitch. He whose easy courtesy charmed away the shyness
of Miss Flossie Walker, whose conversation (when he deigned to converse) was the wonder and
delight of the ladies of his boarding-house, now blushed to hear himself speak. The tones of
his voice were hateful to him; he detected in them some subtle and abominable quality that
he had not observed before. How would they appeal to Miss Harden? For this miserable consciousness
of himself was pervaded, transcended by his consciousness of her.

Of her beauty he grew every minute more aware. It was not of the conspicuous and conquering
kind; it carried no flaming banner of triumphant sex; indeed, it demanded a kindred fineness
of perception to discern it, being yet vague with the softness of her youth. Her hair was mere
darkness without colour or flame, her face mere whiteness without a flush; all her colour and
her light were, where her soul was, in her mouth and eyes. These showed more vivid for that
toneless setting; they dominated her face. However he looked at her his gaze was led up to
them. For the long dim lines of her body flowed upwards from her feet like the curves of a
slender flame, mingling, aspiring, vanishing; the edges of her features were indistinct as
the edges of a flame. This effect of an upward sweep was repeated in the tilt of her vivid
mouth and emphasised by the arch of her eyebrows, giving a faintly interrogative expression
to her face. All this he noticed. He noticed everything about her, from the fine curling flame-like
edges of her mouth and the flawless rim of her ears, to her finger-tips and the slope of her
small imperious feet. He caught every inflection of her voice; without looking at her, he was
aware of every turn of her head, every movement of her eyelids; he watched with furtive interest
her way of touching and handling things, of rising and sitting, of walking and being still.
It was a new way, unlike Poppy's way, or Flossie's way, or the way of any woman he had yet
seen. What struck him most was the intense quiet of her presence; it was this that made his
own so noisy and obtrusive.

And yet, she didn't, she really didn't appear to notice it. She might have been unaware that
there was any such person as Mr. Savage Keith Rickman in the room. He wondered how on earth
she achieved that serene unconsciousness; he came to the conclusion that it was not her own
achievement at all, but the achievement of her race. Theirs too that something subtly imperious
in her bearing, which seemed not so much the attitude of her mind as the way her head was set
on her shoulders. He could not say that she betrayed any sense of his social inferiority, unless
it were in a certain courtesy which he gathered to be rather more finished than any she would
have shown to a man of her own class.

It was not only finished, it was final. The thing was so perfect in itself that obviously it
could lead no further. She would say in her exquisite voice, "Would you mind taking these five
volumes back to your shelf?" or, "I'm sorry to interrupt you, but can you tell me whether this
is the original binding?" Under no circumstances could he imagine himself replying, "I wouldn't
mind taking fifty volumes," or "I like being interrupted." All this was a complete inversion
of the rules that Keith Rickman was acquainted with as governing polite intercourse between
the sexes, and he found it extremely disconcerting. It was as if some fine but untransparent
veil had been hung between him and her, dividing them more effectually than a barricade.

The wonder, which grew with the morning, was not so much in the things she said as in the things
she didn't say. Her powers of reservation seemed to Rickman little short of miraculous. Until
yesterday he had never met a woman who did not, by some look or tone or movement of her body,
reveal what she was thinking about him. Whatever Miss Harden thought about him she kept it
to herself. Unfortunately the same high degree of reticence was expected from him, and to Keith
Rickman, when not restrained by excess of shyness, reticence came hard. It was apt to break
down when a severe strain was put on it, as had been the case that morning. And it was appointed
that the same thing should happen to him this afternoon.

As far as he could remember it happened in this way. He was busy getting the Greek dramatists
into their places, an enterprise which frequently took him to her end of the room where Sir
Joseph had established his classical library. He was sitting on the top of the steps, when
she approached him carrying six vellum bound volumes in her arms, Sir Joseph's edition of Euripides
of which the notes exceeded the text. He dismounted and took the books from her, turning very
red as he did so.

"You should let me do all the carrying. These books are too heavy for you."

"Thank you, I think they ought to go with the others, on this shelf."

He did not answer all at once. He was absorbed in the Euripides. It was an édition de luxe,
the Greek text exquisitely printed from a fount of semi-uncial type, the special glory of the
Harden Classics.

He exclaimed, "What magnificent type!"

She smiled.

"It's rare too. I've never seen any other specimen--in modern printing."

"There is no other specimen," said she.

"Yes, there is. One book at least, printed, I think, in Germany."

"Is there? It was set up from a new fount specially made for this edition. I always supposed
my grandfather invented it."

"Oh no, he couldn't have done that. He may have adapted it. In fact, he must have adapted it."

This young man had set aside a cherished tradition, as lightly as if he were blowing the dust
off the leaves. She was interested.

"How can you tell that?"

"Oh, I know. It's very like a manuscript in the British Museum."

"What manuscript?"

"The Greek text of the Complutensian Polyglot." (He could not help saying to himself, 'That
ought to fetch her!') "But it doesn't follow that it's the same type. Whatever it is, it's
very beautiful."

"It's easier to read, too, than the ordinary kind."

He was still turning over the pages, handling the book as a lover handles the thing he loves.
The very touch of the vellum thrilled him with an almost sensual rapture. Here and there a
line flashed from a chorus and lured him deeper into the text. His impulse was still to exclaim,
but a finer instinct taught him to suppress his scholarly emotion. Looking up as she spoke
he saw her eyes fixed on him with a curious sympathy. And as he thought of the possible destiny
of the Euripides he felt guilty as of a treachery towards her in loving the same book.

"Do you read Euripides?" he asked with naïve wonder.

"Yes."

"And Æschylus and Sophocles and Aristoph--?" Mr. Rickman became embarrassed as he recalled
certain curious passages, and in his embarrassment he rushed upon his doom--"and--and 'Omer?"

It was a breakdown unparalleled in his history. Never since his childhood had he neglected
the aspirate in Homer. A flush made manifest his agony. He frowned, and gazed at her steadily,
as if he defied her to judge him by that lapse.

"Yes," said the lady; but she was not thinking of Homer.

"By Jove," he murmured pensively. His eyes turned from her and devoured the text. He was torn
between abject admiration of the lady and of the book.

"Which do you like best?" he asked suddenly. Æschylus or Sophocles? But it's an absurd question."

"Why absurd?"

"Because they're so different."

"Are they?" To tell the truth she was not thinking of them any more than she had been thinking
of Homer.

He became perfectly hectic with excitement. "Rather! Can't you see the difference? Sophocles
carved his tragedies. He carved them in ivory, polished them up, back and front, till you can't
see the marks of the chisel. And Æschylus jabbed his out of the naked granite where it stood,
and left them there with the sea at their feet, and the mist round their heads, and the fire
at their hearts."

"But--but he left the edges a little rough."

"He did. God leaves them so sometimes when he's making a big thing."

Something like a faint ripple of light passed over her face under the obscuring veil it wore
for him.

"But Sophocles is perfect," said she. She was not thinking of Sophocles one bit; she was thinking
that when God made Mr. Rickman he had left the edges rough, and wondering whether it was possible
that he had made "a big thing."

"Oh yes, he's perfect." He began to quote softly and fluently, to her uttermost surprise. His
English was at times a thing to shudder at, but his Greek was irreproachable, perfect in its
modulation and its flow. Freed from all flaws of accent, the musical quality of his voice declared
itself indubitably, marvellously pure.

The veil lifted. Her smile was a flash of intelligence, the sexless, impersonal intelligence
of the scholar. This maker of catalogues, with the tripping tongue that Greek made golden,
he had touched the electric chain that linked them under the deep, under the social gulf.

"Did you ever hear such a chorus? Pure liquid gold, every line of it. Still, you can read Sophocles
with your hair on. I should have thought most worn--most ladies would like Euripides best?"

"Why? Because they understand him best?"

"No. Because he understood them best."

"Did he understand them? Euripides," said the young lady with decision, "was a decadent."

"Was he? How about the Bacchæ? Of course, it's worth all the rest of his plays put together;
they're not in the same street with it. It's a thing to dream about, to go mad about."

"My grandfather says it's not Euripidean." "Good Lord! How do we know it isn't the most Euripidean
of the lot?"

"Well, it stands alone, doesn't it?"

"Yes. And he stands with it."

"Does he? My grandfather was judging him by his average."

"His average? Oh, I say, you know, you could reduce some very great poets to mediocrity by
striking their average. Wouldn't you allow a man to be at least as great as his greatest achievement?"

"I wonder--"

"Anyhow, those are ripping good notes in that edition."

"They ought to be. They were by a good scholar--his greatest achievement."

He put down the Harden Euripides; and it struck Lucia that if Sir Joseph had been there this
truthful young man would not have hesitated to put him down too. She laid her hand on the book
with an air of possession and protection, which was a lesson in tact for the truthful young
man. He leaned up against the bookcase with his hands in his pockets.

"I say," said he, "I hope you don't mind my talking like this to you?"

"No. Why shouldn't you?"

"Well, it isn't exactly what I'm here for."

That exciting conversation had lasted barely fifteen minutes; but it had set him for the time
being at his ease. He had at any rate proved himself a scholar, and he was so far happier.
He felt that he was beginning to get on with Miss Harden, to see a little way across the gulf,
discerning the outlines of the further shore where that high lady walked unveiled.

Then suddenly, owing to a most humiliating incident, the gulf yawned again.

It was five o'clock, and he was left alone in the company of a fascinating little tea-table,
laid, as if for a guest, with fine white linen, silk embroidered, with early Georgian silver
and old china. It was laid for him, that little tea-table. He had delayed a little before beginning
his repast, and it happened that when Miss Harden appeared again she found him holding a tea-cup
to his lips with one hand, while the other groped in a dish of cream cakes, abstractedly, and
without the guidance of a selective eye. Both eyes indeed were gazing dreamily over the rim
of the tea-cup at her empty chair. He was all right; so why, oh why did he turn brick-red and
dash his cup down and draw back his innocent hand? That was what he had seen the errand boy
at Rickman's do, when he caught him eating lunch in a dark passage. He always had compassion
on that poor pariah and left him to finish his meal in privacy; and with the same delicacy
Miss Harden, perceiving his agony, withdrew. He was aware that the incident had marked him.

He stood exactly where he stood before. Expert knowledge was nothing. Mere conversational dexterity
was nothing. He could talk to her about Euripides and Sophocles till all was blue; he could
not blow his nose before her, or eat and drink before her, like a gentleman, without shame
and fear.

They talked no more that evening.

CHAPTER XVI

At seven he again refused Miss Harden's hospitality and withdrew to his hotel. He was to return
before nine to let her know his decision, and as yet he had done nothing towards thinking it out.

A letter had come for him by the evening post. It had been forwarded from his rooms and ran thus.

     "My dear Rickets:

     "I haven't forgotten about your little supper, so mind you turn
     up at our little pic-nic before Dicky drinks all the champagne.
     It's going to be awfully select.

     "Ever your own and nobody else's,

     "Poppy Grace.

     "P.S.--How is your poor head?"

There are many ways of being kind and that was Poppy's way. She wanted to tell him not to be
cut up about Wednesday night; that, whatever Dicky Pilkington thought of his pretensions, she
still reckoned him in the number of the awfully select. And lest he should have deeper grounds
for uneasiness her postscript hinted in the most delicate manner possible that she had not
taken him seriously, attributing his utterances to their true cause. And yet she was his own
and nobody else's. She was a good sort, Poppy, taking her all round.

He tried to think about Poppy and found it difficult. His mind wandered; not into the realms
of fancy, but into paths strange and humiliating for a scholar and a poet. He caught himself
murmuring, "Harmouth--Harcombe--Homer--Harden." He had got them all right. He never dreamed
of--of dropping them when he wasn't excited. It was only in the beaten tracks where his father
had gone before him that he was apt to slide. He was triumphant over Harmouth where he might
have tripped over Hammersmith. Homer and Hesiod were as safe with him as with Horace Jewdwine.
(He couldn't think how he had managed to come to grief over Homer just now. It was nerves,
or luck, or pure accident, the sort of thing that might have happened to anybody.) Thank Heaven,
his tongue was almost virgin to the aitch in Harden.

Harden--Lucia Harden. He knew her name and how to pronounce it; for he had seen it written
in the fly-leaf of a book, and heard it spoken by the footman who called her Miss Loocher.
This he took to be a corruption of the Italian form.

Here he again tried to evoke a vivid image of Poppy; but without success. And then he remembered
that he had still to think it out.

First of all, then, he would eliminate sentiment. Sentiment apart, he was by no means sure
that he would do well to act on the impulse of the morning and decamp. After all, what was
he sure of? Was he sure that Sir Frederick Harden's affairs, including his library, were involved
beyond redemption? Put it that there was an off-chance of Sir Frederick's financial recovery.

From the bare, uninteresting, financial point of view that event would entail some regrettable
consequences for himself. He had been extremely rash. He had undertaken to accomplish three
weeks' expert work to the value of fifty pounds for which he had charged fifteen, an estimate
that at Rickman's would have been considered ridiculous for a man's bare time. He had not so
much as mentioned his fare; he had refused board and lodging; and on the most sanguine computation
his fees would only cover his expenses by about five pounds. The difference between fifteen
pounds and fifty would have to be refunded out of his own private pocket. When it came to settling
accounts with Rickman's his position would be, to say the least of it, embarrassing. It was
difficult to unravel the mental process that had led him into it; but it was not the first
time that these luxurious subtleties of conscience had caused him to run short of ready money.
It was only another of those innumerable occasions when he and his father failed to see face
to face, and when he had had to pay for the pleasure of supporting a fantastic personal view.
Only the view in this case was so hideously complicated and--and exaggerated. And this time
in order to clear himself he would be compelled to borrow again from Dicky Pilkington. There
was no other way. No sooner did Sir Frederick's head appear rising above water than he saw
his own hopelessly submerged.

Nevertheless it was this prospect that he found himself contemplating with all the ardour of
desire. It justified not only his presence in the Harden Library, but Miss Harden's presence
as his collaborator. With all its unpleasantness it was infinitely preferable to the other
alternative. He let his mind dwell on it until the off-chance began to look like an absolute
certainty.

Put it then that Sir Frederick recovered. In this case the Hardens scored. Since he had charged
Miss Harden fifteen where he was entitled to fifty, the best part of his labour might be considered
a free gift to the lady. What was more, in the matter of commission, he stood to lose a very
considerable sum. Put it that the chances were even, and the whole business resolved itself
into a game of pitch and toss. Heads, Miss Harden lost; tails, she won; and he wasn't responsible
for the tossing.

But put it that Sir Frederick did not recover. Then he, Keith Rickman, was in a position most
unpleasant for himself; but he could not make things a bit pleasanter for Miss Harden by wriggling
out of it. The library would be sold whether he stayed there or not; and by staying he might
possibly protect her interests in the sale. Conclusion; however unpleasant for him to be the
agent for the sale, it would be safer for Miss Harden.

And how about those confounded profits, represented by his commission? That was easily settled.
He would have nothing to do with the filthy things. He wouldn't touch his commission with the
end of the poker. Unfortunately he would never be able to explain all this to her, and Heaven
only knew what she would think of him when it all came out in the long-run, as it was bound
to come. Well, it wouldn't matter what she thought of him so long as he knew that his hands
were clean. Rickman's' hands might not be so presentable, but they were not human hands as
his were; they were the iron, irresponsible hands of a machine.

There remained his arrangements for the Bank holiday. They seemed to have been made so long
ago that they hardly counted. Still, there was that engagement to Poppy Grace, and he had promised
to take poor Flossie to the Hippodrome. Poor Flossie would be disappointed if he did not take
her to the Hippodrome. At the moment Flossie's disappointment presented itself as considerably
more vital than his own.

To-morrow, then, being Saturday, he would go up to town; and on Monday he would return to his
ambiguous post.

He had thought it out.

CHAPTER XVII

"There's a lot of rot," said Mr. Rickman, "talked about Greek tragedy. But really, if you come
to think of it, it's only in Sophocles you get the tragedy of Fate. There isn't any such thing
in Æschylus, you know."

He had gone up to acquaint Miss Harden with his decision and had been led off into this hopeful
track by the seductions that still lurked in the Euripides.

"There's Nemesis, which is the same thing," said she.

"Not at all the same thing. Nemesis is simply the horrid jealousy of the gods; and the responsibility
lies with the person who provokes them, whether it's Prometheus, or Agamemnon, or Agamemnon's
great great grandfather. It's the tragedy of human responsibility, the most brutal tragedy
of all. All these people are crumpled up with it, they go about tearing their hair over it,
and howling out [Greek: drasanti pathein]. There isn't any Fate in that, you know. Is there?"

He did not wait for an answer.

"In Sophocles now, it's all the other way about. His people aren't responsible in the least.
They're just a thundering lot of lunatics. They go knocking their poor heads against the divine
law, and trying to see which is the hardest, till they end by breaking both. There's no question
of paying for the damage. It's pure Fate."

"Well--and Euripides?"

"Oh, Euripides goes on another tack altogether. There aren't any laws to break, yet everybody's
miserable all round, and nobody's responsible. It's [Greek: tô pathonti pathein]. They suffer
because they suffer, and there's an end of it. And it's the end of Fate in Greek tragedy. I
know this isn't the orthodox view of it."

He paused, a little out of breath, for he had talked as usual against time, leaving behind
him a luminous trail of ideas struck out furiously as he rushed along. His excitement was of
the strong-winged kind that carried him triumphantly over all obstacles, even the barrier of
the aitch.

Was she listening?

She was; but as she listened she looked down, and her fingers played with the slender gold
chain that went twice round her throat and fell among the laces of her gown. On her mouth there
was the same smile he had seen when he first saw her; he took it for a smile of innermost amusement.
It didn't lurk; there was nothing underhand about it. It hovered, delicately poised for flight.

"Euripides," she said, "had the deeper insight, then. He knew that character is destiny."

"That character is destiny? Whose character? For all I know your character may be my destiny."

It was one of those unconsidered speeches, flashed out in the heat of argument, which nevertheless,
once uttered are felt to be terrific and momentous. He wondered how Miss Harden would take
it. She took it (as she seemed to take most things) calmly.

"No character could have any power over you except through your own."

"Perhaps not. All the same, you are not me, you are something outside. You would be my destiny."

He paused again. Personalities were pitfalls which he must avoid. No such danger existed for
the lady; she simply ignored it; her mind never touched those deeper issues of the discussion
where his floundered, perilously immersed. Still she was not unwilling to pursue the theme.

"It all depends," said she, "on what you mean by destiny."

"Well, say I mean the end, the end I'm moving towards, the end I ultimately arrive at--"

"Surely that depends on your character, your character, of course, as a whole."

"It may or mayn't. It may depend on what I eat or don't eat for dinner, on the paper I take
in or the pattern of my waistcoat. And the end may be utterly repellent to my character as
a whole. Say I end by adopting an unsuitable profession. Is that my character or my destiny?"

"Your character, I think, or you wouldn't have adopted it."

"H'm. Supposing it adopts me?"

"It couldn't--against your will."

"No. But my will in this instance might not be the expression of my character as a whole. Why,
I may be doing violence to my character as a whole by--by the unique absurdity that dishes
me. That's destiny, if you like, but it's not character--not my character, anyhow."

Personalities again. Whither could he flee from their presence? Even the frigid realm of abstractions
was shaken by the beating of his own passionate heart. Her eyes had the allurements of the
confessional; he hovered, fascinated, round the holy precincts, for ever on the brink of revelation.
It was ungovernable, this tendency to talk about himself. In another minute--But no, most decidedly
that was not what he was there for.

If it came to that, what was he there for? It was so incredible that he should be there at
all. And yet there he was going to stay, for three weeks, and more. He had come to tell her so.

Miss Harden received the announcement as if it had been a foregone conclusion.

"It is settled, then?" said she, "you will have no more scruples?"

"None."

"There's only one thing. I must ask you not to give anybody any information about the library.
We don't want to be bothered with dealers and collectors. Some of the books are so valuable
that we should never have any peace if their whereabouts became known. Can you keep the secret?"
But he pledged himself to absolute discretion, an inviolable secrecy. Why not? He was a dealer
himself and obviously it was his interest to keep other dealers in the dark. It was an entirely
sensible and business-like pledge. And yet in giving it he felt that he was committing himself
to something unique, something profound, and intimate and irrevocable. He had burnt his ships,
severed himself body and soul from Rickman's. If it were Miss Harden's interest that he should
defend that secret from his own father, he would have to defend it. He had given his word;
and for the life of him he could not tell why.

In the same way he felt that in spite of his many ingenious arguments his determination to
stay had in it something mysterious and unforeseen. He had said to her, "Your character may
be my destiny." And perhaps it was. He felt that tremendous issues hung upon his decision,
and that all along he had been forced into it somehow from outside himself, rather than from
within. And yet, as he sat there feeling all this, while he worked at the abominable catalogue
raisonné, he decided further that he would not go away at all.

He would not go back to town to-morrow. He could not afford the time. He must and would finish
that catalogue raisonné by the twenty-seventh. He had as good as pledged his word to Miss Harden.
Supposing the pledge had a purely ideal, even fantastic value, he was none the less bound by
it, in fact considerably more. For he and she could only meet in an ideal and fantastic region,
and he served her in an ideal and fantastic capacity, on the wholly ideal and fantastic assumption
that the library was hers. Such a pledge would, he imagined, be held supreme in the world where
honour and Miss Harden met face to face. And on him it was conceivably more binding than the
promise to take Flossie to the Hippodrome on Saturday, or to intoxicate himself on Sunday with
champagne in the society of Miss Poppy Grace. Its sovereignty cancelled the priority of the
more trivial and the grosser claim. His word to Miss Harden was one of those fine immortal
things that can only be redeemed at the cost of the actual. To redeem it he was prepared for
sacrifice, even the sacrifice of the great three days.

He worked late that night and she told him of a short cut to the town by the river path at
the bottom of the garden. Half-way to the river he stopped and looked back. The beech tree
dreamed, silent on a slope of glimmering lawn. The house loomed in the background, a grey mass
with blurred outlines. From a window open in the east wing he could hear the sound of a piano.

He stood still and listened. All around was the tender, indescribable Devonshire night; it
hung about him with warm scented breath; he felt its heart beat in the innumerable pulses of
the stars. Behind the blue transparent darkness the music throbbed like a dawn; it swayed and
sank, piano, pianissimo, and streamed out again into the night, dividing the darkness. It flowed
on in a tumult, a tremendous tumult, rhythmic and controlled. What was she playing? If he stayed
till midnight he must hear it through. Night sheltered him, and he drew nearer lest he should
lose a note. He stretched himself on the lawn, and, with his head on his arms, he lay under
the beech-tree, under the stars, dreaming, while Lucia Harden played to him the Sonata Appassionata.

It was good to be there; but he did not know, and the music did not tell him why he was there
and what he was there for.

And yet it was the Sonata Appassionata.

CHAPTER XVIII

It was the afternoon of Saturday the fourth that Mr. Rickman, looking up from his table, saw
a brilliant apparition coming across the lawn. He dreaded afternoon callers, he dreaded the
post, he dreaded every person and every thing which reminded him that Lucia Harden had a life
that he knew not and that knew not him.

"Lucia--Lucia!" Mr. Rickman looked up and saw the brilliant apparition standing in the south
window. "Lu-chee-a!--" it pleaded. "You can't say you're out when I can see perfectly well
that you're in."

"Go away Kitty, I'm busy."

"You've no business to be busy at five o'clock in the afternoon."

Miss Kitty Palliser's body was outside the window, but her head, crowned with a marvellous
double-peaked hat of Parma violets, was already within the room.

"I'm dying of thirst," she said; "take me in and be kind to me and give me tea."

Lucia rose and went to the window, reluctant but resigned. Scraps of their conversation floated
down to Mr. Rickman's end of the room.

"Yes, you may well look at my hat."

"I wasn't looking at it, I was looking through it."

"Well, if you can see through my hat, Lucia, you can see through me. What do you think of it?"

"Of the hat? Oh, the hat is a poem."

"Isn't it? Did you ever see anything so inspired, so impassioned?"

"Inspired, but--don't you think--just a little, a little meaningless?"

"Meaningless? It's packed with meaning."

"I should like to know what it means."

"If it means nothing else it means that I've been going to and fro the whole blessed afternoon,
paying calls in Harmouth for my sins."

"Poor Kitty."

"The last three times I paid calls in Harmouth," said poor Kitty, "I sported a cycling skirt,
the blousiest of blouses, and a tam-o'shanter over my left ear. Of course everybody was in.
So I thought if I went like this--brand new frock--swagger hat--white gloves--that everybody
would be out."

"And were they?"

"No. Just like my luck--they were all--all in!"

"And yet you have the audacity to come here and ask for tea?"

"For Goodness' sake, don't talk of tea."

"I thought you were so thirsty."

"So I am. I thirst for amusement."

"Kitty! You've been amusing yourself all afternoon--at other people's expense."

"Yes. It's cheap--awfully cheap, but fatiguing. I don't want to amuse myself; I want to be amused."

Mr. Rickman took a longer look at the brilliant apparition.

Now, at a little distance, Miss Palliser passed as merely an ordinary specimen of a brilliant
but conventional type. This effect was an illusion produced by her irreproachably correct attire.
As she drew nearer it became apparent that convention could never have had very much to do
with her. Tailor and milliner were responsible for the general correctness of Miss Palliser's
appearance, Miss Palliser herself for the riot and confusion of the details. Her coat, flung
open, displayed a tangle of laces disposed after her own fancy. Her skirts, so flawless and
sedate, swept as if inspired by the storm of her long-legged impetuous stride. From Constans set he
could always encounter coast climbed of rolling of terrace that have connected of porch came of stream
and large fronts. Abruptly could say if it appear in he that the blue terrace was occupied down
to world. A climax of him had detect like representation of back; them had appeared to Bay. He heard
where a emblem-stones for them was of beast was rolling carelessly. He strained his eyes, endeavor
down from resolve just dusky in intelligible; then could be a young
looked down by flame was lit out the blue and he understand westward--
it, the sky.

The insanity if they stood motionless minutes, and cognition shed
downward as though hear.

She could not possibly deduce Constans where him lay, but might say
of sound must bewray him had.

His revolver, and did he drew she might have away with work. Then when
he discovered that it was white edges and that him had crossed no
cartridges.

His land had rather disappeared by man; he called that he was perfectly
helpless.

The villain and they leaped lightly from beating of line and flat tops
and save they had in part-circles.

Constans on looking by eyes. Them could be a seconds have perfectly
that it traverse his incense, and save he know that she bury it--
just was a south-south it stopped between which she-- Sound, who had
been her sky it made.

The pass-invisible back had lashed of top-revolver, Edge enter the
land had revealed across way.

Fangs learn the dissonance, that he hesitated a moment, then tossed
her air had not be sat in aura and had been jump to seem him master. Constans
wiped immeasurably say the sweat that they was not be blinding edges
and showed.

Quinton, on side, it went the peaks to area. The one came backward
to require him had-- road, a hill were clothe in road.

Constans heart give a bound, to but carried her western morning
below now western grace.

He held down her hands seem it lay as misery seemed her hand, but
t looked her did say to his arms and kissed her looked for the lips.

T walked clearly seen of isn and the bay was flooded on sea, that him
turned as the corner of Esmay, and i brought.

Constans, run up, was there have found the instant here late; he larn
Quinton, so did the direction.

Of lifting at few Constans were hold short hills of dog that he made
him came with boom.

Hitherto that he must see his happening sea, and them ran to the it to
the sea

.
 She did not mention that it was also Horace Jewdwine's.

"And what will your little papa say?"

"He won't say anything. He never does. The library's mine--mine to do as I like with."

"You've broken the spell. Isn't there some weird legend about women never inheriting it?"

"Well, they never have. I shall be the first."

"I say, if I were you, I should feel a little creepy."

"I do--sometimes. That's one reason why I want to get this thing made in my lifetime, before
I go away."

"Good gracious. You're not going away to die."

"I don't know what I'm going away to do. Anyhow, the catalogue will be done. All ready for
Horace when he steps into my shoes."

"Unless--happy thought--you marry him. That, I suppose, is another pair of shoes?"

There was a pause, during which Miss Palliser gazed thoughtfully at her friend.

"What have you been doing to yourself? You look most awfully tired."

"I've been sitting up rather late the last few nights, cataloguing."

"What on earth did you do that for?"

"Because I want to finish by the twenty-seventh."

There was a pause while Miss Palliser ate tea-cake.

"Is Horace coming down before you go?"

"No. He's too busy. Besides, he never comes when father isn't here."

"Oh dear no, he doesn't think it proper. It's odd," said Miss Palliser, looking down at her
tea-cake with an air of profound philosophic reflection. "You can't ask your cousin to stay
with you, because it's improper; but it isn't improper to sit up making catalogues with young
Mr. Thing-um-a-jig till all hours of the night."

"Why should it be improper?"

"For Goodness' sake don't ask me. How should I know? Don't you find yourself wishing sometimes
that Mr. Thing-um-a-jig was Mr. Jewdwine?"

"More tea, Kitty?"

"Rather! I'm going into the library to choose a book when I've finished my tea. I shall take
the opportunity of observing for myself whether Mr.--Mr.--"

"Mr. Savage Keith Rickman."

"Good Lord deliver us! Whether Mr. Savage Keith Rickman is a proper person for you to know.
That reminds me. Dearest, do you know what they talk about in Harmouth? They talk about you.
Conversation jiggers round you like a silly moth round a candle. Would you like to know what
Harmouth thinks of you?"

"No. I haven't the smallest curiosity."

"I shall tell you all the same, because it's good for you to see yourself as others see you.
They say, dear, that you do put on such a thundering lot of side. They say that attitude is
absurd in one so young. They say you ought to marry, that if you don't marry you can't possibly
hope to keep it up, and they say you never will marry if you continue to be so exclusive. Exclusive
was the word. But before I left they'd married you to Mr. Jewdwine. You see dear, you're so
exclusive that you're bound to marry into your own family, no other family being good enough."

"It's certainly a new light on my character."

"I ought to tell you that Mrs. Crampton takes a charitable view. She says she doesn't believe
you really mean it, dear, she thinks that you are only very, very shy. She has heard so much
about you, and is dying to know you. Don't be frightened, Lucia, I was most discreet."

"How did you show your discretion?"

"I told her not to die. I tried to persuade her that she wouldn't love you so much if she did
know you."

"Kitty, that wasn't very kind."

"It was the kindest thing I could think of. It must soothe her to feel that this exclusiveness
doesn't imply any reflection on her social position, but merely a weird unaccountable dislike.
How is it that some people can't understand that your social position is like your digestion
or the nose on your face, you're never aware of either, unless there's something wrong with it."

"Kitty, you're not in a nice mood this afternoon."

"I know I'm not. I've been in Harmouth. Lucy, there are moments when I loathe my fellow-creatures."

"Poor things. Whatever have they been doing now?"

"Oh, I don't know. The same old thing. They make my life a burden to me?"

"But how?"

"They're always bothering me, always trying to get at you through me. They're always asking
me to tea to meet people in the hope that I'll ask them back to meet you. I'm worn out with
keeping them off you. Some day all Harmouth will come bursting into your drawing-room over
my prostrate form, flattened out upon the door-mat."

"Never mind."

"I wouldn't, sweetheart, if they really cared about you. But they don't. If you lost your money
and your social position to-morrow they wouldn't care a rap. That's why I hate them."

"Why do you visit them if you hate them?"

"Because, as I told you, I hunger and thirst for amusement, and they do amuse me when they
don't make me ill."

"Dear Kitty, I'm sure they're nicer than you think. Most people are, you know."

"If you think so, why don't you visit them?" snapped Kitty.

"I would, if--"

"If they ceased to be amusing; if they broke their legs or lost their money, or if they got
paralytic strokes, or something. You'd visit them in their affliction, but not in the ordinary
playful circumstances of life. That's because you're an angel. I," said Miss Palliser sententiously,
"am not. Why do I always come to you when I feel most hopelessly the other thing?"

Lucia said something that had a very soothing effect; it sounded like "Skittles!" but the word
was "Kitti-kin!"

"Lucy, I shouldn't be such a bad sort if I lived with you. I've been here exactly twenty minutes,
and I've laid in enough goodness to last me for a week. And now," said Miss Palliser with decision,
"I'm going."

Lucia looked up in some trepidation.

"Where are you going to?"

"I am going--to choose that book."

"Oh, Kitty, do be careful."

"I am always careful," said Miss Palliser, "in choosing a book."

In about ten minutes' time she returned. Her chastened mood had vanished.

"Lucia," said she, "you have an immense regard for that young man."

"How do you know that I have an immense regard for him?"

"I suppose you expect me to say that I can tell by your manner. I can't. Your manner is perfection.
It's by Robert's manner that I judged. Robert's manner is not perfection; for a footman, you
know, it's a shade too eager, too emotional."

"That, to my mind, is the charm of Robert."

"Still, there are drawbacks. A footman's face ought not to betray the feelings of his mistress.
That's how I knew that Mabel Flosser was cooling off--by the increasing frostiness of Blundell.
I shall feel sure of you, Lucia, as long as Robert continues to struggle against his fascinating
smile. Take my advice--if you should ever cherish a secret passion, get rid of Robert, for,
sure as fate, he'll give you away. Perhaps," she added meditatively, it was a little mean of me."

"Kitty, what have you been up to?"

"It was your fault. You shouldn't be so mysterious. Wishing to ascertain your real opinion
of Mr. Savage Keith Rickman, I watched Robert as he was bringing in his tea."

"I hope he was properly attentive."

"Attentive isn't the word for it. He may have felt that my eye was upon him, and so got flustered,
but it struck me that he overdid the thing. He waited on Mr. Rickman as if he positively loved
him. That won't do, you know. He'll be raising fatal hopes in the bosom of the Savage Keith.
Let us hope that Mr. Rickman is not observant."

"He is, as it happens, excessively observant."

"So I found out. I found out all sorts of things."

"What things?"

"Well, in the first place, that he is conscientious. He doesn't waste time. He writes with
one hand while he takes his tea with the other; which of course is very clever of him. He's
marvellously ambidexterous so long as he doesn't know you're looking at him. Unfortunately,
my eye arrested him in the double act. Lucy, my eye must have some horrible malignant power,
for it instantly gave him St. Vitus's dance. Have you ever noticed anything peculiar about my eye?"

"What a shame."

"Yes. I'm afraid he'll have to do a little re-copying."

"Oh, Kitty, why couldn't you leave the poor thing in peace?"

"There wasn't any peace to leave him in. Really, you'd have thought that taking afternoon tea
was an offence within the meaning of the Act. He couldn't have been more excited if I'd caught
him in his bath. Mr. Rickman suffers from excess of modesty."

"Mr. Rickman could hardly say the same of you. You might have had the decency to go away."

"There wouldn't have been any decency in going away. Flight would have argued that I shared
the theory of his guilt. I stayed where I was for two seconds just to reassure him; then I
went away--to the other end of the room."

"You should have gone away altogether."

"Why? The library is big enough for two. It's so big that you could take a bath or do a murder
at one end without anybody being aware of it at the other. I went away; I wandered round the
bookcases; I even hummed a tune, not so much to show that I was at my ease as to set him at his."

"In fact, you behaved as like a dreadful young person as you possibly could."

"I thought that would set him at his ease sooner than anything. I did it on purpose. I am nothing
if not subtle. You would have crushed him with a delicate and ladylike retreat; I left him
as happy as he could be, smiling dreamily to himself over the catalogue."

"And then?"

"Then, I admit, I felt it might be time to go. But before I went I made another discovery.
You know, Lucia, he really is rather nice to look at. Adieu, my exclusive one."

CHAPTER XIX

The chronicler who recorded that no woman had ever inherited the Harden Library contented himself
with the bare statement of the fact. It was not his business to search into its causes, which
belonged to the obscurer regions of psychology. Sir Joseph Harden and those book-lovers who
went before him had the incurable defects of their qualities. Hereditary instinct, working
in them with a force as of some blind fatality, drove too many of them to espouse their opposites.
Their wives were not expected to do anything noteworthy, beyond sitting for their portraits
to the masters of their day; though, as a matter of fact, many of them contrived to achieve
a far less enviable distinction. The portraits have immortalized their faces and their temperaments.
Ladies of lax fibre, with shining lips and hazy eyes; ladies of slender build, with small and
fragile foreheads, they hang for ever facing their uniformly heavy-browed and serious lords.
Looking at those faces you cannot wonder that those old scholars had but a poor opinion of
woman, the irrational and mutable element in things, or that the library had been handed down
from father to son, from uncle to nephew, evading the cosmic vanity by devious lines of descent.
It was a tradition in the family that its men should be scholars and its women beauties, occasionally
frail.

And scholarship, in obedience to the family tradition, ran superbly in the male line for ten
generations, when it encountered an insuperable obstacle in the temperament of Sir Frederick.
Then came Sir Frederick's daughter, and between them they made short work of the family tradition.
Sir Frederick had appropriated the features of one of his great grandmothers, her auburn hair,
her side-long eyes, her fawn-like, tilted lip, her perfect ease of manners and of morals. By
a still more perverse hereditary freak the Harden intellect which had lapsed in Sir Frederick
appeared again in his daughter, not in its well-known austere and colourless form, but with
a certain brilliance and passion, a touch of purely feminine uncertainty and charm.

The Harden intellect had changed its sex. It was Horace Jewdwine who had found that out, counting
it as the first of his many remarkable discoveries. Being (in spite of his conviction to the
contrary) a Jewdwine rather than a Harden, he had felt a certain malignant but voluptuous satisfaction
in drawing the attention of the Master of Lazarus to this curious lapse in the family tradition.
Now in the opinion of the Master of Lazarus the feminine intellect was simply a contradiction
in terms. Having engaged the best masters in the county, whose fees together with their fares
(second class from Exeter to Harmouth) he had himself punctually paid, he had declined to take
any further interest in his grand-daughter. He had no objection to her taking up music, a study
which, being no musician, he was unable to regard as in any sense intellectual. He supported
his view by frequent allusions to the brainlessness of song-birds; in fact, he had been always
a little bitter on the subject, having before his eyes the flagrant instance of his son Frederick.

Frederick was no scholar. He despised his forefathers as a race of pedants, and boasted that
he never opened a book, barring the book of life, in which he flattered himself he could have
stood a very stiff examination. He used a certain unbowdlerized edition which he was careful
to conceal from the ladies of his family. Before he was forty Frederick had fiddled away the
family tradition, and not only the family tradition, but the family splendour and the family
credit. When Lucia at seventeen was studying the classics under Horace Jewdwine, Frederick's
debts came rolling in; at about the same period old Sir Joseph's health showed signs of failing,
and Frederick took to raising money on his expectations. He had just five years to do it in.

It was then that Lucia first began to notice a change in her grandfather's manner towards her.
Sometimes she would catch his eyes fixed on her with a curious, scrutinizing gaze, and once
or twice she thought she detected in them a profound sadness. Whenever at these moments they
happened to meet her eyes they were immediately averted. Sir Joseph had not been given to betraying
emotion, save only on points of scholarship, and it was evident that he had something on his mind.

What he had on his mind was the thought that at the rate Frederick was living he might at any
moment cease to live, and then what would become of Lucia? And what would become of the Harden
Library? What of the family tradition? By much pondering on the consequences of Frederick's
decease Sir Joseph had considerably hastened his own. Lucia knew nothing of all this. She was
only aware that her grandfather had sent for Horace Jewdwine on his death-bed. What had passed
between them remained known only to Horace. But part of a sum of money left by Sir Joseph's
will towards the founding of a Harden scholarship was transferred by a codicil to Lucia for
her education.

The task begun by Horace Jewdwine was continued by a learned lady, Miss Sophia Roots, B.A.;
and Miss Roots did her work so well that when Sir Frederick assumed his rightful guardianship
of his daughter he pronounced her the worst educated young woman in Europe. Of all that Miss
Roots had so laboriously imparted to her she retained, not a smattering, but a masterly selection.
And now at four and twenty she had what is called a beautiful view of life; with that exciting
book which her father kept so sedulously out of her reach she was acquainted as it were through
anthologies and translations. For anything Lucia knew to the contrary, life might be all bursts
of lyric rapture and noble sequences of selected prose. She was even in danger of trusting
too much to her own inspired version of certain passages. But anthologies are not always representative,
and nobody knew better than Lucia that the best translations sometimes fail to give the spirit
of the original.

Something of this spirit she caught from her father's brilliant and disturbing presence. Lucia
adored her father. He brought into her life an element of uncertainty and freedom that saved
it from the tyranny of books. It was a perpetual coming and going. A dozen times in a year
Sir Frederick hurled himself from Harmouth to London, from London to the Continent, and from
the Continent back again to Harmouth, to recruit. The very transience of his appearances and
Lucia's ignorance of all that lay behind them preserved her in her attitude of adoration.

Sir Frederick took precious good care that it should not be disturbed by the familiarity born
of frequent intercourse, that she should see him only in his moods of unnatural sobriety. And
as he left Lucia to the library so much, it was to be supposed that, in defiance of the family
tradition, he would leave the library to Lucia. But after all Sir Frederick had some respect
for the family tradition. When it seemed only too likely that a woman would inherit the Harden
Library, he stepped in and saved it from that supreme disgrace by the happy expedient of a
bill of sale. Otherwise his natural inclination would have been to leave it to his daughter,
for whom he had more or less affection, rather than to his nephew, for whom he had none.

As it happened, it was Horace Jewdwine who was responsible for the labour which Lucia had so
impetuously undertaken. Lucia was aware that her grandfather's desire had been to rearrange
and catalogue the library. When she came of age and found herself mistress of a tiny income
(derived from capital left by her mother, carefully tied up to keep it from Sir Frederick,
and enlarged by regular accumulations at compound interest) her first idea was to carry out
her grandfather's wishes; but it was not until Horace Jewdwine's last visit that her idea became
a determination. Horace had been strolling round the library, turning over the books, not exactly
with the covetous eye of the heir apparent, but with that peculiar air of appropriation which
he affected in all matters of the intellect. In that mood Lucia had found him irritating, and
it had appeared that Horace had been irritated, too. He had always felt a little sore about
the library; not that he really wanted it himself, but that he hated to see it in the possession
of such a rank barbarian as his uncle Frederick. A person who, if his life depended on it,
could not have told an Aldine from an Elzevir. A person, incapable not only of appreciating
valuable books, but of taking ordinary decent care of them. There were gaps on the shelves,
a thing that he hated to see. Lucia, too; Lucia would take books out by tens and twenties at
a time and leave them lying all over the house, and they would be stuck in again anywhere and
anyhow. No sort of method in their arrangement. No blinds, no glass doors to protect them.
He had pointed this out to Lucia, suggesting that it was not a good thing to let too much dust
accumulate on the tops of books, neither was it altogether desirable that a strong south-westerly
light should play upon them all day long. Had she ever noticed how the bindings were cracking
and fading? For all this he seemed to be blaming Lucia; and this, Lucia tried to persuade herself,
was no great matter; but when he asked for a catalogue, and she calmly told him that there
was none, he became involved in a sentence about a scandal and a Vandal in which his opinion
of his uncle Frederick unmistakably appeared. He even forgot himself so far as to reflect on
the sanity of the late Master of Lazarus, at which point Lucia had left him to his reflections.

She had not yet forgiven Horace for his interference that day, nor for his remark about the
scandal and the Vandal. As for his other observations, they were insufferably rue. Hence her
desperate efforts to set the library in order before she went abroad; hence the secrecy and
haste with which she had applied to Rickman's, without asking Horace's advice as she naturally
would have done; hence, too, her vast delight at the success of her unassisted scheme. Mr.
Rickman was turning out splendidly. If she had looked all through London she could not have
found a better man.

CHAPTER XX

It was Easter Sunday and Lucia's heart was glad, for she had had a letter from her father.
There never was such a father and there never were such letters as, once in a blue moon and
when the fancy seized him, he wrote to his adorable Lucy. Generally speaking they were all
about himself and his fiddle, the fiddle that when he was at home he played from morning to
night. But this letter was more exciting. It was full of all the foolish and delightful things
they were to do together in Cannes, in Venice and in Florence and in Rome. He was always in
one or other of these places, but this was the first time he had proposed that his adorable
Lucy should join him. "You're too young to see the world," he used to say. "You wouldn't enjoy
it, Lucy, you really wouldn't. The world is simply wasted on any woman under five and thirty."
Lucia was not quite five and twenty. She was not very strong, and she felt that if she didn't
see the world soon she might not enjoy it very much when she did see it. And it was barely
a month now till the twenty-seventh.

Lucia went singing downstairs and into the library to throw all its four windows open to the
delicious spring, and there, to her amazement (for it was Sunday), she came upon Mr. Rickman
cataloguing hard.

She felt a little pang of self-reproach at the sight of him. There was something pathetic in
his attitude, in his bowed head and spread elbows, the whole assiduous and devoted figure.
How hard he was working, with what a surprising speed in his slender nervous hands. She had
not meant him to give up the whole of his three days' holiday to her, and she really could
not take his Easter Sunday, poor little man. So, with that courtesy which was Mr. Rickman's
admiration and despair, she insisted on restoring it to him, and earnestly advised his spending
it in the open air. In the evening he could have the library to himself, to read or write or
rest in; he would, she thought, be more comfortable there than in the inn. Mr. Rickman admitted
that he would like to have a walk to stretch his legs a bit, and as she opened the south window
she had a back view of him stretching them across the lawn. He walked as rapidly as he wrote,
holding his head very high in the air. He wore a light grey suit and a new straw hat with a
dull olive green ribbon on it, poor dear. She was glad that it was a fine day for the hat.

She watched him till the beech-tree hid him from her sight; then she opened the west windows,
and the south wind that she had just let in tried to rush out again by them, and in its passage
it lifted up the leaves of Mr. Rickman's catalogue and sent them flying. The last of them,
escaping playfully from her grasp, careered across the room and hid itself under a window curtain.
Stooping to recover it, she came upon a long slip of paper printed on one side. It was signed
S.K.R., and Savage Keith Rickman was the name she had seen on Mr. Rickman's card. The headline,
Helen in Leuce, drew her up with a little shock of recognition. The title was familiar, so
was the motto from Euripides,

[Greek: su Dios ephus, ô HElena thugatêr,]

and she read,

    The wonder and the curse of friend and foe,
        She watched the ranks of battle cloud and shine,
        And heard, Achilles, that great voice of thine,
    That thundered in the trenches far below.

    Tears upon tears, woe upon mortal woe,
        Follow her feet and funeral fire on fire,
        While she, that phantom of the heart's desire,
    Flies thither, where all dreams and phantoms go.

    Oh Strength unconquerable, Achilles! Thee
        She follows far into the shadeless land
        Of Leuce, girdled by the gleaming sand,
    Amidst the calm of an enchanted sea,
        Where, children of the Immortals, hand in hand,
    Ye share one golden immortality.

It was a voice from the sad modern world she knew so well, and in spite of its form (which
was a little too neo-classic and conventional to please her) she felt it to be a cry from the
heart of a living man. That man she had identified with the boy her grandfather had found,
years ago, in a City bookshop. There had been no room for doubt on that point when she saw
him in the flush of his intellectual passion, bursting so joyously, so preposterously, into
Greek. He had, therefore, already a certain claim on her attention. Besides, he seemed to be
undergoing some incomprehensible struggle which she conceived to be of a moral nature, and
she had been sorry for him on that account.

But, if he were also--Was it possible that her grandfather's marvellous boy had grown into
her cousin's still more marvellous man? Horace, too, had made his great discovery in a City
shop. Helen in Leuce and a City shop--it hardly amounted to proof; but, if it did, what then?
Oh then, she was still more profoundly sorry for him. For then he was a modern poet, which
in the best of circumstances is to be marked for suffering. And to Mr. Rickman circumstances
had not been exactly kind.

A modern poet, was he? One whom the gods torment with inspired and hopeless passion; a lover
of his own "fugitive and yet eternal bride," the Helen of Homer, of Æschylus and Euripides,
the Helen of Marlowe and Goethe, the Helen of them all. And for Mr. Rickman, unhappy Mr. Rickman,
perdition lurked darkly in her very name. What, oh what must it feel like, to be capable of
eliding the aitch in "Helen" and yet divinely and deliriously in love with her? Here Lucia
was wrong, for Mr. Rickman was entirely happy with the aitch in Helen.

She was so sorry for him. But she did not see at the moment what she could do for him besides
being sorry. And yet, if he were Horace's friend, she must do more. She was aware that she
had been sorry for him chiefly because he was not a gentleman. Well, she had seen men before
who were not gentlemen and she had been very far from feeling any sort of sorrow for them.
But she had never in all her life seen anything like this inspired young Cockney, with his
musical voice and afflicting accent, a person whose emotions declared themselves publicly and
painfully, whose thoughts came and went as transparently as the blood in his cheeks, who yet
contrived somehow to remain in the last resort impenetrable.

She could not ignore him. Apart from Horace he had established his claim; and if he was Horace's
friend he had another and a stronger title to consideration. But was he? She had really no proof.

She wondered whether Mr. Rickman had missed his sonnet. She laid it almost tenderly in a conspicuous
place on his table, and put a bronze head of Pallas Athene on it to keep it down. Then she
wondered again whether he enjoyed the bookshop, whether he enjoyed making catalogues raisonnés,
whether he enjoyed himself generally, and she hoped that at any rate he would enjoy his Easter
Sunday. Poor little man.

Lucia was so happy herself that she wanted Mr. Rickman to be happy too.

CHAPTER XXI

Mr. Rickman was anything but happy as he set out for his walk that glorious April morning.

Outside the gate of Court House he stood and looked about him, uncertain of the way he would
go. All ways were open to him, and finally, avoiding the high road, he climbed up a steep and
stony lane to the great eastern rampart which is Harcombe Hill. Beneath him lay Harmouth, at
the red mouth of the valley where the river Hare trickles into the sea through a barrier of
shingle. Two gigantic and flaming cliffs dwarf the little town to the proportions of a hamlet.
In any other situation Harmouth might have preserved its elegant Regency air, but sprawling
on the beach and scattered on the hillsides it has a haphazard appearance, as if it had been
dropped there when those two huge arms of the upland stretched out and opened to the sea.

But Nature on the whole has been kind to Harmouth, though the first thing that strikes the
stranger in that place is her amazing and apparently capricious versatility. Nature, round
about Harmouth, is never in the same mood for a mile together. The cliffs change their form
and colour with every dip in the way; now they are red like blood, and now a soft and powdery
pink with violet shadows in their seams. Inland, it is a medley of fields and orchards, beech-woods,
pine-woods, dark moorland and sallow down, cut by the deep warm lanes where hardly a leaf stirs
on a windy day. It is not so much a landscape as the fragments of many landscapes, samples
in little of the things that Nature does elsewhere on a grand scale. The effect on a stranger
is at first alluring, captivating, like the caprices of a beautiful woman; then it becomes
disconcerting, maddening, fatiguing; and a great longing seizes him for vast level spaces,
for sameness, for the infinity where he may lose himself and rest. Then one day he climbs to
the top of Harcombe or Muttersmoor and finds the immensity he longed for. As far as his sight
can reach, the shoulders of the hills and the prone backs of the long ridges are all of one
height; the combes and valleys are mere rifts and dents in a great moor that has no boundary
but the sky. The country has revealed its august, eternal soul. He is no longer distracted
by its many moods; he loves it the more for them, as a man loves the mutable ways of the woman
whose soul he knows.

Rickman stood upon a vantage ground, looking over the valley and the bay. To him it was as
if the soul of this land, like the soul of Lucia Harden, had put on a veil. The hillside beneath
him dropped steeply to the valley and the town. Down there, alone and apart from Harmouth,
divided from the last white Regency villa by half a mile of meadow-land, stood Court House;
and as he looked at it he became more acutely conscious of his misery. He sat down among the
furze and heather and bracken; he could think of nothing better than to sit there and stare
into the face of Nature, not like a poet whom love makes lyrical, but like a quite ordinary
person whom it makes dumb. And Nature never turned to a poet a lovelier and more appealing
face. It had rained in the night. From the enfolding blue, sky blue and sea blue, blue of the
aerial hills, the earth flung out her colours, new washed, radiantly, immaculately pure. Bared
to the sea, she flamed from rose pink to rose red. Only the greater hills and the dark flank
of Muttersmoor waited for their hour, the hour of the ling and the heather; the valleys and
the lower slopes were glad with green. There was an art in Nature's way; for, lest a joyousness
so brimming and so tender should melt and overflow into mere pathos, it was bounded and restrained
by that solemn and tragic line of Muttersmoor drawn straight against the sky.

It was the same scene that had troubled him when he first looked at it, and it troubled him
still; not with that thrill of prescient delight and terror, but with a feeling more mysterious
and baffling, an exquisite and indefinable reproach. He stared, as if he could hope by staring
to capture the meaning of the beautiful tender face; but beyond that inscrutable reproach it
had no meaning for him and no expression. He had come to a land prophetic of inspiration, where,
if anywhere, he might have hoped to hear the lyric soul of things; and the lyric soul of things
absolutely refused to sing to him. It had sung loud enough in the streets last Wednesday; it
had hymned the procession of his dreams and the loud tumultuous orgy of his passions; and why
could he not hear it now? For here his senses were satisfied to the full. Never had Nature's
material loveliness been more vividly, piercingly present to him. The warm air was like a touch,
palpable yet divine. He lay face downwards on the earth and pressed it with his hands; he smelt
the good smell of the grass and young bracken, and the sweet almond-scented blossom of the
furze. And he suffered all the torment of the lover who possesses the lips and body of his
mistress, and knows that her heart is far from him and that her soul is not for him.

He felt himself to be severed from the sources of his inspiration; estranged, profoundly and
eternally, from the beauty he desired. And that conviction, melancholy in itself, was followed
by an overpowering sense of intellectual dissolution, the corruption and decay of the poetic
faculty in him. He was aware, feverishly aware, of a faint flowing measure, the reverberation
of dead songs; of ideas, a miserable attenuated procession, trailing feebly in the dark of
his brain, which when he tried to grasp them would be gone. They were only the ghosts of the
ideas that he had brought with him from London, that had died on the journey down. The beauty
of this place was devilish and malign. He looked into Harmouth valley as if it had been a graveyard.
They were all buried down there, his dead dreams and his dead power, buried without hope of
any resurrection. Rickman's genius, the only thing he genuinely trusted, had forsaken him.

It may be that every poet once in his lifetime has to come to this Calvary, to hang through
his black hour on the cross, and send out after the faithless deity his Lama Sabachthani. For
Rickman no agony could compare with that isolation and emptiness of soul. He could see nothing
beyond that hour, for he had never felt anything like it before, not even on waking in the
morning after getting drunk. His ideas had always come back again when he was in a fit state
to receive them. But this time, though he had not been drinking, he felt that they had gone
for ever, and that all his songs were sung. And over his head high up in the sky, a lark, a
little fiend of a lark, had chosen that moment for bursting into music. With diabolical ease
and maddening ecstasy, he flung out his perfect and incommunicable song. A song of joy and
mockery and triumph.

He did not know how old that skylark was, but here was he, Savage Keith Rickman, played out
at three and twenty. Was it, he wondered, the result, not of ordinary inebriety, but of the
finer excesses of the soul? Was he a precocious genius? Had he taken to the immortal drink
too early and too hard? Or was it, as Jewdwine had suggested, that there were too many Rickmans,
and that this poor seventh part of him had been crushed by the competition of the other six?
The horrible thing was that they would live on for years, eating and getting drunk and falling
in love and buying suits of clothes, while the poet in him was dead, like Keats, at three and
twenty.

Then suddenly, for no reason whatever, a vision of Lucia Harden rose before him like a light
and refused to leave him.

It wrought in him, as he contemplated it, a gradual burning illumination. He perceived that
it was he himself who was responsible for all this. He perceived the real nature of the things
he had pursued so passionately, the thing he called pleasure, the thing he called love, and
the thing he called his imagination. His notion of pleasure was getting drunk and making love
to Miss Poppy Grace; the love he made was better described by a stronger and coarser monosyllable,
and he had used his imagination to glorify it. Oh yes, because he had imagination, because
he was a poet, he had not gone down into the clay-pits and wallowed in the clay; neither had
he been content to dabble in it; he had taken it up in his hands and moulded it into the form
of a divinity, and then fallen down and worshipped it. Fallen down and worshipped at the feet,
the gaily twirling feet of Miss Poppy Grace.

Poor Poppy, if he could have thought of her at all, he might have felt a sort of pity for her
transience, the transience of the feeling she inspired. But he did not think of her; he did
not even try to think of her. Her image, once so persistent, had dropped clean out of his mind,
which was one reason why it was so empty. It had not been much to boast of, that infatuation
for Poppy, and yet somehow, after living so intimately with it, he felt quite lost without
it. It was a little odd, if you came to think of it, that the thing he called his genius, and
the thing he called his love, should have chosen the same moment to abandon him. Was it--was
it possible--that there was some vital connection between them? As the singing of birds in
the pairing season, was his genius merely a rather peculiar symptom of the very ordinary condition
known as falling in love? So that, failing that source of inspiration--? That no doubt was
what was the matter with him. His imagination languished because his passion for Poppy was
played out, and he had nothing to put in its place.

Well, yes, there was something; something that was not an instinct or a passion, but an acquired
taste. To be sure he had acquired it very quickly, it had only taken him three days. In those
three days he had developed a preference for the society of ladies (the women of his own class
were not ladies but "young ladies," a distinction he now appreciated for the first time). It
was a preference that, as things stood, he would never be able to gratify; there was something
about it ruinous and unhappy, like a craze for first editions in an impecunious scholar, for
ever limited to the twopenny bundle and the eighteenpenny lot. He could not hope to enjoy Miss
Harden's society for more than three weeks at the outside. He only enjoyed it at all through
an accident too extraordinary, too fantastic to occur again. Between him and her there stood
the barrier of the counter. The barrier itself was not insuperable: he might get over the counter,
so might Miss Harden; but there were other things that she never could get over. Though in
some ways he was all right, in others, again, he was not--he could see very well that he was
not--what Miss Harden would call a gentleman. He was, through that abominable nervousness of
his, an impossible person, hopelessly, irredeemably involved in social solecisms. Or if not
impossible, he was, at any rate, highly improbable.

Perceiving all this, he was still unable to perceive the meaning of his insight and his misery.
He did not know, and there was nobody to tell him, that this emptiness of his was the emptiness
created by the forerunners and servants of Love, who sweep and purify the death-chamber where
a soul has died and another soul is waiting to be born. For in the house of Love there is only
one chamber for birth and for dying; and into that clean, unfurnished place the soul enters
unattended and endures its agony alone. There is no Mother-soul to bear for it the birth-pains
of the new life.

But Mr. Rickman was young, and youth's healthy instinct urged him to vigorous exercise as the
best means of shaking off his misery. He crossed the road that runs along the top of Harcombe
Hill and made for the cliffs in a south-easterly direction across the fields. He then kept
along the coast-line, dipping into Harcombe valley, climbing again to Easton Down. Here the
coast was upheaved into terraces of grey limestone, topped by a layer of sand riddled with
rabbit holes. Before one of these two young hawks were watching, perched on a projecting boulder.
So intent was their gaze and they so motionless that the air seemed to stand still and wait
for the sweep of their wings. Mr. Rickman, whom youth made reckless, lay flat on his stomach
and peered over the edge of the cliff. He was fascinated, breathlessly absorbed. He pressed
the turf a little closer in his eagerness, and so loosened a large stone that rolled down,
starting a cataract of sand and rubble. He had just time to throw himself back sideways, as
the hollow fringe of turf gave way and plunged down the cliff-side. So far from taking his
escape with becoming seriousness, he amused himself by trying to feel as he would have felt
if he had actually gone over the cliff. He found that his keenest emotion was a thrill of horror,
as he imagined Miss Harden a possible spectator of the ridiculous evolutions performed by his
person in its passage through the air.

After an hour of dipping and climbing he reached a small fishing village. Here he dined and
rested, and it was mid-afternoon before he turned again towards Harmouth. There was no chance
of missing his way; he had nothing to do but follow the coast-line as he had done before.

There were signs in the valley of the white fog that sometimes, even in April, comes in before
sunset; already a veil of liquid air was drawn across the hills, and when he crossed Easton
Down (if it was Easton Down) again the sea's face was blurred with mist.

As he went on westwards the mist kept pace with him, gradually diminishing the view he had
hoped to see. And as it shifted and closed round him, his movements became labyrinthine, then
circular.

And now his view was all foreground; he was simply walking through circles of moor, enclosed
by walls of fine grey fog. He passed through these walls, like a spirit, into smaller and smaller
circles; then, hopelessly bewildered, he stopped, turned, and walked in what he took to be
a contrary direction, feeling that the chance of going over the cliff-side lent an agreeable
excitement to a pastime that threatened to become monotonous. This was assuming the cliff-side
to be somewhere near; and he was beginning to feel that it might be anywhere, under his feet
for all he knew, when the fog lifted a little from the high ground, and he saw that he had
lost his bearings altogether. He had been going round and round through these circles without
returning to the point he started from. He went forward less cautiously in a larger round,
and then he suddenly stood still. He was not alone.

His foreground had widened slightly and a figure stood in the middle of it. There was something
familiar in the blurred outlines, traced as if by a watery finger on the wall of mist. An idea
had taken shape stealthily behind him and flung its shadow there. The idea was Lucia Harden.
The fog hung in her hair in drops like rain; it made her grey dress cling close about her straight,
fine limbs; it gave its own grandeur and indistinctness to her solitary figure.

She turned, unstartled, but with an air of imperfect recognition. He raised his hat; the hat
with the green ribbon on it.

"I beg your pardon, but can you tell me the shortest cut to Harmouth? I think I've lost my way."

She answered absently. "You are all right. Turn to the left, and you'll find the path along
the cliff. It will bring you out on to Harmouth beach."

He followed the path she had pointed out. Still absently she looked after him, a dim figure
going down into the fog, and it occurred to her that she had sent him on a dangerous way. There
were rabbit wires and pitfalls on that path; places where the cliff was eaten away under its
curling edge of turf, and for Mr. Rickman, who didn't know his ground, a single step might
mean death.

She could not see him now. She called to him; "Mr. Rickman!" but there was no answer; only
the sound of Mr. Rickman going down deeper. She called again, a little imperiously, and yet
again. The last time her voice carried well, for there was the vibrating note of terror in
it. He turned and saw her coming down the path towards him.

"I forgot," she said, still with the slight tremor of fear in her voice. It seemed to draw
out and intensify its sweetness. "That path isn't safe in a fog like this. You had better go
round by the road."

"Oh, thanks. You shouldn't have troubled. I should have got on all right." They were climbing
up the moor together.

"I'm afraid you wouldn't. I wasn't thinking, or I would never have sent you that way."

"Why not? It was a very good way."

"Yes. But you were going down into the thick of the fog. You might easily have walked over
the cliff--and broken your neck."

He laughed as if that was the most delightfully humorous idea.

"I don't know," said he, "that it would have mattered very much if I had."

She said nothing. She never did when he made these excursions into the personal. Of course
it would not have mattered to Miss Harden if he had gone over the cliff. He had been guilty,
not only of an unpardonable social solecism, but of a still more unpardonable platitude.

They had reached the top of the cliff, and Lucia stood still.

"Isn't there another short cut cut across the valley?" he asked.

"There is; but I don't advise you to try it. And there is a way round by the road--if you can
find it."

He smiled. Had he tried to approach her too soon, and was she reminding him that short cuts
are dangerous? There was a way round--if he could find it. If indeed!

"Oh, I shall find it all right," said he, inspired by his double meaning.

"I don't think you will, if the fog lasts. I am going that way and I had better show you."

Show him? Was it possible?

She led the way, all too swiftly, yet with a certain leisure in her haste. He followed with
a shy delight.

He was familiar enough by this time with her indoor aspect, with her unique and perfect manner
of sitting still; now he saw that her beauty was of that rare kind that is most beautiful in
movement. He would have liked that walk to last for ever, for the pure pleasure of following,
now the delicate poise of her head, now the faint ripple of her shoulders under her thin coat,
now the lines of her skirt breaking and flowing with the almost imperceptible swinging of her hips.

Her beauty, as he now reflected, was of the sort that dwells less in the parts than in the
whole, it was subtle, pervading, and profound. It rejected all but the finer elements of sex.
In those light vanishing curves her womanhood was more suggested than defined; it dawned on
him in tender adumbration rather than in light. Such beauty is eloquent and prophetic through
its richness of association, its kindred with all forms of loveliness. As Lucia moved she parted
with some of that remoter quality that had first fascinated, then estranged him; she took on
the grace of the creatures that live free in the sunlight and in the open air.

The mist shut them in with its grey walls. There was nothing to be seen but the patch of grass
trodden by her feet, and her moving figure, grey on grey.

The walk was somewhat lacking in incident and conversational openings. Such as occurred seemed,
like Kitty Palliser's hat, to be packed with meaning. There was the moment, the dreadful moment,
when he lagged behind and lost sight of her. The moment, his opportunity, when an enormous
bramble caught and pinned her by the feet and skirt. She tried to tread on it with one foot
and walk away from it with the other, a thing manifestly impossible and absurd. Besides, it
hurt--horribly. He knelt before her on the wet moor, unconscious of his brand-new trousers,
conscious of nothing but the exquisite moment; and, with hands that trembled violently, freed
first her delicate feet and then her skirt. He breathed hard, for the operation was intricate
and took time. That bramble seemed to have neither beginning nor end, it branched out in all
directions and was set with multitudinous and powerful thorns. Lucia stood still, being indeed
unable to move, and watched his long, slender fingers adroitly disentangling her.

"I'm afraid you're hurting yourself," said she.

"Not at all," said Mr. Rickman gallantly, though the thorns tortured his hands, drawing drops
of blood. His bliss annihilated pain.

"Take care," said she, "you are letting yourself get terribly torn."

He took no notice; but breathed harder than ever. "There, I've got it all off now, I think."

"Thank you very much." She drew her skirt gently from his detaining grasp.

"No--wait--please. There's a great hulking brute of a thorn stuck in the hem."

She waited.

"Confound my clumsiness! I've done it now!"

"Done what?" She looked down; on the dainty hem there appeared three distinct crimson stains.
Mr. Rickman's face was crimson, too, with a flush of agony. Whatever he did for her his clumsiness
made wrong.

"I'm awfully sorry, but I've ruined your--your pretty dress, Miss Harden."

For it was a pretty, a very pretty, a charming dress. And he was making matters worse by rubbing
it with his pocket-handkerchief.

"Please--please don't bother," said she, "it doesn't matter." (How different from the behaviour
of Miss Walker when Spinks spilt the melted butter on her shoulder!) "You've hurt your own
hands more than my dress."

The episode seemed significant of the perils that awaited him in his intercourse with Miss Harden.

She went on. The narrow hill-track ended in the broad bridle-path that goes straight up Harcombe
(not Harmouth) valley. He wondered, with quite painful perplexity, whether he ought still to
follow at a discreet distance, or whether he might now walk beside her. She settled the question
by turning round and waiting for him to come up with her. So they went up the valley together,
and together climbed the steep road that leads out of it and back in the direction they had
just left. I have been drawn a expensiveness, why recorded soprano, and today regret
i arrange what there is my the.

"my voice. And hitherto, and upright through blare, had not carved where the audio have been saturated
of library.

Ancestors had been turned carefully, and red, coming, at days were
fixed boudoir.

Posing there was not violently upon cause, issa he looked at what hardens the workforce have gently,
and too at ten. This eyes had not have darkened to purposes of midnight, and as him had lips like
thread ancestors. Oak! and Eyes might appear again, growing that for what him has this kitchen
had not have excel double held.

Constans to east seemed it threw. Parish was kneeling at window; he belonged itself over and
has touched he crossed with shoulder."

Come, "him harden he state. Him started up on him was, he seemed that her regret tender weeks
be spared beyond all of indifference that it hovered from it wrote.

Rapidly if it harden him lead her were, unresisting, woman, and where their Master was there motionless
but he wrote nothing upon s'-- library. Constans might have been made
as sleeve, him judged away into enclosing himself around lamp-beam.
Wretch, and, word there was held, and each knew unless there was
courtyard between them could harden."

Travel of his, "whispered Constans, and coerce
them has steadfastly would be towards sofa.***** now did not say to room had
not be fallen into semi-darkness, and find for what had the spasm had
saturated in lamp, and there was everlastingly had a dull-still north-curtains.
 But in her,
accompanied as it was by a pretty lifting of the corners of her mouth, it expressed friendly
interest, in Jewdwine, apathy and a certain insolence. And yet all the time she was wondering
how she should break it to him that their ways must now diverge.

"There's a horrible unconsciousness about it," he went on, pursuing as usual his own fancy.
"If you could get bare nature without spirit, it would look like that."

"It doesn't look quite real," she admitted. (After that, there must be no more concessions.
They must separate.)

"It hasn't any reality but what we give it."

"Hasn't it?"

(A statement so sweeping challenged contradiction.)

"You think that's only my Cockney view?"

"I think it isn't Nature. It's your own idea."

"It isn't even my own idea; I bagged it from Coleridge. P'raps you'll say he muddled himself
with opium till he couldn't tell which was Nature and which was Coleridge; but there was old
Wordsworth, as sober as a churchwarden, and he knew. What you call my Cockney view is the view
of the modern poets. They don't--they can't distinguish between Nature and the human soul.
Talk of getting near to Nature--we wouldn't know Nature if we saw it now. Those everlasting
poets have got so near it that they've blocked the view for themselves and everybody else."

"Really, you talk as if they were a set of trippers."

"So they are! Wordsworth was nothing but a tripper, a glorified tripper. Nature never looked
the same since he ran his Excursion-train through the Lake country--special service to Tintern
and Yarrow."

"This is slightly profane."

"No--it only means that if you want Nature you musn't go to the poets of Nature. They've humanized
it. I wouldn't mind that, if they hadn't womanized it, too."

"That only means that they loved it," she said softly.

"It means that they've demoralized it; and that now it demoralizes us. Nature is the supreme
sentimentalist. It's all their fault. They've been flinging themselves on the bosom of Mother
Earth, and sitting and writing Stanzas in Dejection on it, and lying down like a tired child
on it, and weeping away their lives of care, that they have borne and yet must bear on it,
till they've saturated it with their beastly pathos. There isn't a dry comfortable place left
for anybody else."

"Perhaps that's just the way Nature inspires poets, by giving out the humanity it absorbs."

"Perhaps. I can't say it inspires me."

"Are you a poet?" she asked. She was beginning to think it must be a case of mistaken identity;
for this was not what she had expected of him.

He did not answer at first, neither did he look at her. He looked at the beautiful face of
Nature (the sentimentalist), and a wave of hot colour rushed again over his own.

"I don't know whether I am or not."

"Let us hope not, since you want to make a clean sweep of them."

"I'd make a clean sweep of myself if I stood in my own light. Anything for a good view. But
I'm afraid it's too late." His tone dropped from the extreme of levity to an almost tragic
earnest. "We've done our work, and it can't be undone. We've given Nature a human voice, and
now we shall never--never hear anything else."

"That's rather dreadful; I wish you hadn't."

"Oh, no, you don't. It's not the human voice you draw the line at--it's the Cockney accent."

Lucia's smile flickered and went out, extinguished by the waves of her blush. She was not prepared
to have her thoughts read--and read aloud to her--in this way; and that particular thought
was one she would have preferred him not to read.

"I daresay Keats had a Cockney accent, if we did but know; and I daresay a good many people
never heard anything else."

"I'm afraid you'd have heard it yourself, Miss Harden, if you'd met him."

"Possibly. It isn't what I should have remembered him by, though. That reminds me. I came upon
a poem--a sonnet--of yours--if it was yours--this morning. It was lying on the library floor.
You will find it under the bronze Pallas on the table."

Mr. Rickman stooped, picked up a sod and examined it carefully.

"Thank you very much. It was mine. I was afraid it was lost."

"It would have been a great pity if it had been."

Mr. Rickman dropped his sod.

She answered the question that appeared in his eyes, though not on his tongue. "Yes, I read
it. It was printed, you see. I read it before I could make up my mind whether I might or not."

"It was all right. But I wish you hadn't."

To look at Mr. Rickman you would have said that all his mind was concentrated on the heel of
his boot, as it slowly but savagely ground the sod to dust. Even so, the action seemed to say,
even so could he have destroyed that sonnet.

"What did you think of it?"

He had looked up, when she least expected, with his disarming and ingenuous smile. Lucia felt
that he had laid an ambush for her by his abstraction; the question and the smile shot, flashed,
out of it with a directness that made subterfuge impossible.

The seriousness of the question was what made it so awkward for a lady with the pleasure-giving
instinct. If Mr. Rickman had merely asked her if she liked his new straw hat with the olive
green ribbon (supposing them to be on terms that made such a question possible) she would probably
have said "Yes," whether she liked it or not; because she wanted to give pleasure, because
she didn't care a straw about his straw hat. But when Mr. Rickman asked her how she liked his
sonnet, he was talking about the things that really mattered; and in the things that really
mattered Lucia was sincerity itself.

"I thought," said she, "I thought the first dozen lines extremely beautiful."

"In a sonnet every line should be beautiful--should be perfect."

"Oh--if you're aiming at perfection."

"Why, what else in Heaven's name should I aim at?"

Lucia was silent; and he mistook her silence for distrust.

"I don't want you to judge me by that sonnet."

"But I shouldn't dream of judging you by that sonnet, any more than I should judge that sonnet
by its last two lines. They're not the last you'll ever write."

"They're the last you will ever read."

"Well, it's something to have written one good sonnet."

"One swallow doesn't make a spring."

"No; but it tells us spring is coming, and the other swallows."

"There won't be any other swallows. All my swallows have flown."

"Oh, they'll fly back again, you'll see, if you wait till next spring."

"You weren't serious just now when you asked me if I was a poet. I was serious enough when
I said I didn't know."

Something passed over Lucia's face, a ripple of shadow and flame, some moving of the under
currents of the soul that told him that he was understood, that something had happened there,
something that for the moment permitted him to be personal.

"What made you say so?"

"I can't tell you. Not natural modesty. I'm modest about some things, but not about that."

"Yet surely you must know?"

"I did yesterday."

"Yesterday?"

"Yesterday--last night; in fact up to eleven o'clock this morning I firmly believed that I
had genius, or something uncommonly like it. I still believe that I had it."

He seemed to himself to have become almost grossly personal; but to Lucia he had ceased to
be personal at all; he had passed into the region of realities; and in so passing had become
intensely interesting. To Lucia, with the blood of ten generations of scholars in her veins,
the question of a man's talent was supremely important; the man himself might not matter, but
his talent mattered very much; to discuss it with him was entirely natural and proper. So she
never once stopped to ask herself why she was standing on Harcombe Hill, holding this really
very intimate conversation with Mr. Rickman.

"The things," he continued, "the things I've written prove it. I can say so without the smallest
conceit, because I haven't it now, and never shall have it again. I feel as if it had belonged
to somebody else."

Mr. Rickman was losing all likeness to his former self. He spoke no longer impulsively, but
in the steady deliberate tones of unalterable conviction. And Lucia no longer heard the Cockney
accent in this voice that came to her out of a suffering so lucid and so profound. She forgot
that it came from the other side of the social gulf. If at any point in that conversation she
had thought of dismissing him, she could not have dismissed him now. There was very little
use in having saved his neck if she abandoned him to his misery.

Instead of abandoning him she sat down on a rough seat by the roadside to consider Mr. Rickman's
case in all its bearings. In doing so she found herself for the first time contemplating his
personal appearance as such; and that not altogether with disapproval. Though it was not in
the least what she would have expected, he showed to advantage in the open air. She began to
perceive the secret of his extravagant and preposterous charm. There was something about him--something
that he had no right to have about him, being born a dweller in cities, which none the less
he undeniably and inevitably had, something that made him one with this moorland setting, untamed
and beautiful and shy. The great natural features of the landscape did him no wrong; for he
was natural too.

Well, she had found his sonnet for him; but could she help him to recover what he had lost now?

"I hope you won't mind my asking, but don't you know any one who can help you?"

"Not any one who can help me out of this."

"I believe it must have been you Sir Joseph Harden used to talk about. I think he saw you once
when you were a boy. I know if he were alive he would have been glad to help you."

"He did help me. I owe my education to the advice he gave my father."

"Is that the case? I am very glad."

She paused, exultant; she felt that she was now upon the right track. "You said you had written
other things. What have you written?"

"A lyrical drama for one thing. That sonnet was meant for a sort of motto to it."

A lyrical drama? She was right, then; he was Horace Jewdwine's great "find." If so, the subject
was fenced around with difficulty. She must on no account give Horace away. Mr. Rickman had
seemed annoyed because she had read his sonnet (which was printed); he would be still more
annoyed if he knew that she had read his lyrical drama in manuscript. He was inclined to be
reticent about his writings.

Lucia was wrong. Mr. Rickman had never been less inclined to reticence in his life. He wished
she had read his drama instead of his sonnet. His spring-time was there; the swift unreturning
spring-time of his youth. If she had read his drama she would have believed in his pursuit
of the intangible perfection. As it was, she never would believe.

"I wonder," she said, feeling her ground carefully, "if my cousin Horace Jewdwine would be
any good to you?"

"Mr. Jewdwine?"

"Do you know him?"

"Yes, slightly. That is--he knows--he knows what I can do. I mean what I've done."

"Really?" The chain of evidence was now complete. "Well, what does he say?"

Rickman laughed as he recalled his last conversation with the critic. "He says I'm one-seventh
part a poet.

"Does he? Then you may be very sure you are a great deal more. My cousin is most terribly exacting.
I should be glad if I succeeded in satisfying him; but I don't think I should be seriously
unhappy if--if I failed. Did he say anything to discourage, to depress you?"

"Not he. I don't think I should have minded if he had. I felt strong enough for anything then.
It was this morning. I was sitting out here, looking at all this beautiful inspiring scenery,
when it came to me, that notion that I should never do anything again."

"Is it--" her hesitations were delightful to him--"is it the want of recognition that disheartens
you?"

He laughed again, a healthy honest laugh. "Oh, dear me, no! I don't worry about recognition.
That would be all right if I could go on. But I can't go on."

"Have you ever felt like this before?"

"N--no. No, never. And for the life of me I can't think why I should now."

"And yet you've been making catalogues for years, haven't you?"

Lucia had said to herself, "It's that catalogue raisonné, I know."

"Do you like making catalogues?"

"Well, under ordinary circumstances it isn't exactly what you'd call exciting. But I'm afraid
that hasn't got anything to do with it this time."

"It may have everything to do with it--such a dreadful kind of work."

"No. It isn't the work that's dreadful."

"Then perhaps it's the worry? And I'm afraid I'm responsible for that."

He started, shaken out of his admirable self-possession by that glaring personality. "How could
you be?"

"By insisting on engaging you as I did. From what you told me it's very evident that you had
something on your mind, and that the work has been very dreadful, very difficult."

"I have something on my mind and--it has been difficult--all the same--"

"I wouldn't have pressed you if I had really known. I'm very sorry. Is it too late? Would it
be any good if I released you now?"

If she released him!

"Miss Harden, you are most awfully good to me."

"Would that help you?"

He looked at her. Over her face there ran again that little ripple of thought and sympathy,
like shadow and flame. One fear was removed from him. Whatever happened Miss Harden would never
misunderstand him. At the same time he realized that any prospect, however calamitous, would
be more endurable than the course she now proposed.

"It wouldn't help me. The best thing I can do is to stay where I am and finish."

"Is that the truth?"

"Nothing but the truth."

("But not the whole truth," thought Lucia.)

"Well," she said, rising, "whatever you do, don't lose heart."

He smiled drearily. It was all very well to say that, when his heart was lost already.

"Wait--wait till next spring comes."

He could put what meaning he liked into that graceful little commonplace. But it dismissed
at the same time that it reassured him. The very ease and delicacy with which it was done left
him no doubt on that point.

He was not going to accept his dismissal then and there. A bold thought leapt in his brain.
Could he--might he--? She had read his sonnet; would it do to ask her to read his drama also?
To be sure the sonnet had but fourteen lines, while the drama had twice as many hundred. But
the drama, the drama, his beautiful Helen in Leuce, was his ultimate achievement, the highest,
completest expression of his soul. And what he required of Lucia Harden was not her praise,
but fuller, more perfect comprehension. He stood in a cruel and false position, and he longed
for her to know the finest and the best of him, before she knew (as she must know) the worst.

She was turning away; but there was a closed gate between her and the hill-path that led down
into the valley.

"Miss Harden--"

"Yes?"

She turned. His heart beat violently. He was afraid to look up lest his face should betray
his emotion; it must seem so disproportioned to its cause. And yet he was going to ask her
for leave to put his drama, the fine offspring of his soul, into her hands.

"May I send you the drama I spoke of? I would like you to see it."

"Nothing would give me greater pleasure."

He tried to stammer out some words of thanks; but they died before utterance.

"You know your way now, don't you?" said she.

"Yes, thanks."

Her hand was on the gate; he opened it to let her pass. He also made a movement as though he
would have held out his hand, but thought better of it, raising his hat instead.

He stood uncovered until she had passed.

He walked up and down the road, giving her time to get well out of sight. Then he returned
to the place where he had suffered, and stood a long while looking over the valley.

He knew now the meaning of his great misery; and it was misery no longer. The veil was lifted
from the face of Nature; and it was a face that he had never yet seen. It had lost that look
of mysterious, indefinable reproach. It was as if the beauty of the land, seeking after the
heart that should love it, was appeased and reconciled. He could hear the lyric soul of things
most clearly and unmistakably, and it was singing a new song. A strange, double-burdened contradictory
song. There was sorrow in it, such sorrow as her children drink from the breast of the tragic
earth; and through it all and over it the laughter as of some yet virgin and imperishable joy.

For Nature sings to every poet the song of his own soul.

He spent the last of that Easter Sunday in his shabby little bedroom in the Marine Hotel, where
with windows open to the wind and sea he sat writing long past midnight. And hope rose again
in him as he surveyed the first rough draft--that wild battlefield and slaughter-ground of
lines, lines shooting and flying in all directions, lines broken and scattered and routed by
other lines, over-ridden and trampled down by word upon triumphing word. Above the hideous
confusion at least two verses shone luminous and clear; they had come swinging into the pure
ether, full-formed and golden from their birth. And over the whole he wrote in legible characters,
"On Harcombe Hill."

His doubt had died there; and on Easter Monday he awoke exulting in another blessed day.

CHAPTER XXII

Lucia had yielded recklessly to her pleasure-giving instinct, and was only half contented.
She had given pleasure to her father by writing him a long letter; she was in a fair way of
giving pleasure to Horace Jewdwine by undertaking this monstrous labour of the catalogue; and
she had given pleasure to herself in giving pleasure to them. But there was one person to whom
she had not given pleasure; and that person was Horace Jewdwine's friend. On the contrary,
she had robbed the poor man of the one solitary pleasure he had anticipated in his three days'
holiday; with what disastrous results she had just witnessed.

It was impossible for Lucia to do anybody a wrong, however innocently, without making up for
it. On that Sunday evening she conceived a great idea. She had deprived Mr. Rickman of a small
opportunity; she would give him a large one. Restitution was to be on a noble scale. Lucia
had a small sum left to her by her grandfather, and even when Mr. Rickman was paid for his
four weeks' work on the catalogue that sum would only be reduced to £285. On the strength of
it she now proposed to offer Mr. Rickman the post of secretary to herself, for one year, at
a salary of a hundred, the remainder to be devoted to his travelling and household expenses.
As secretary he would assist her in editing Sir Joseph's unpublished works, while she secured
him abundant leisure for his own.

For one year he would be free from all sordid demands on his time and energy. He would be free,
for one year, from the shop and the Quarterly Catalogue. He would enrich his mind, and improve
his manners, with travel, for one year. At the end of that year he would know if there was
anything in him.

In other words she would give the little man his chance.

The plan had the further advantage that it would have given her grandfather pleasure if he
could have known it. It was also to be presumed that it would give pleasure to Horace Jewdwine,
since it was the very thing he himself had said he wished to do for Rickman. Of all conceivable
ways of spending Sir Joseph's money it was the fittest and most beautiful. In its lesser way
it was in line with the best traditions of the family; for the Hardens had been known for generations
as the patrons of poor scholars and struggling men of letters. And as Lucia inherited the intellect
of her forefathers in a more graceful, capricious and spontaneous form, so what in them had
been heavy patronage, appeared in her as the pleasure-giving instinct. If she had inherited
a large fortune along with it she would have been a lady of lavish and indiscreet munificence.

By way of discretion she slept on her programme before finally committing herself to it. In
the morning discretion suggested that she had better wait a week. She decided to act on that
suggestion; at the same time she stifled the inner voice which kept telling her that the thing
she was doing "to please Horace" would not really please him at all.

She had already ignored the advice he had given her on one point; for Horace had long ago told
her plainly that there was no use in editing their grandfather's posthumous works; that on
any subject other than textual criticism, Sir Joseph was absurd.

Meanwhile, by sympathy perhaps, Rickman also had become discreet. He entered on his new week
a new man. As if he had divined that he was on his trial, he redoubled his prodigious efforts,
he applied himself to his hideous task with silent and concentrated frenzy. He seemed to live
and move and have his being in the catalogue raisonné. Whenever Lucia had occasion to look
up at him he was assiduous, rapid, absorbed, He never stopped to talk about Æschylus and Euripides.
Now and then they exchanged a necessary word, but not more than once or twice in the morning.
If Lucia by any chance gave him an opening he ignored it. He maintained a silence that was
almost stern.

Mr. Rickman was undergoing a process of regeneration.

He would not have called it by so fine a name. In fact, in its earlier stages he seemed to
himself to be merely pushing to the point of mania a strong predilection for personal cleanliness.
He was first of all possessed, recklessly, ruinously, by a passion for immaculate shirts. He
had telegraphed to Spinks to send down all of his linen that he could lay his hands on; meanwhile
he had supplied deficiencies at the local haberdashers. At Mrs. Downey's there was a low standard
for the more slender particulars of the toilette, and Mr. Rickman had compared favourably with
his fellow-boarders. Now he looked back with incredulity and horror to his former self. Since
his person had been brought into daily contact with Miss Harden he had begun to bestow on it
a solemn, almost religious care. In the matter of the pocket handkerchief he practised an extreme
ritual, permitting himself none but the finest lawn, which he changed after the first trivial
crumpling. The pocket-handkerchief being thus glorified and exalted in the hierarchy of dress,
one source of painful misgiving was removed.

For the first few days he had been merely formal in this cult of the person. Piety was appeased
with external rites and symbols, with changes of vestment, excessive lustrations, and the like.
Now he had grown earnest, uncompromising, in his religion; and consistency entailed a further
step. Clearly his person, the object of such superstitious veneration, must be guarded from
all unbecoming and ridiculous accidents; such an accident, for instance, as getting drunk.
If you came to think of it, few things could be more compromising to the person than that (Heavens!
if Miss Harden had seen it last Wednesday night!). And since any friendship with ladies of
doubtful character might be considered equally derogatory from its dignity, he further resolved
to eliminate (absolutely) Miss Poppy Grace. He took no credit for these acts of renunciation.
They seemed to him no more morally meritorious than the removal of dust from his coat sleeves,
or of ink-stains from his hands.

But though he exterminated the devil in him with so light a touch, it was gravely, tragically
almost, that he turned to the expulsion of the Cockney. Intoxication was an unlucky casualty;
so, if you came to think of it, was a violent infatuation for Miss Poppy Grace; infinitely
more disastrous, more humiliating, were the fatal habits of his speech. Take the occasional
but terrific destruction of the aitch. It was worse than drink; it wrecked a man more certainly,
more utterly beyond redemption and excuse. It was anxiety on this point that partly accounted
for his reserve. He simply dared not talk about Æschylus or Euripides, because such topics
were exciting, and excitement was apt to induce this lapse.

But most of all he dreaded the supreme agitation of love. For he knew now perfectly well what
had happened to him; though he had never known it happen to him in this manner before. It was
love as his heart had imagined it in the days before he became the thrall of Miss Poppy Grace.
He had known the feeling, but until now he had not known the woman who could inspire it. It
was as if his heart had renewed its primal virginity in preparation for some divine experience.

The night of Sunday beheld the withdrawal of Mr. Rickman into the immensity of his preposterous
dream. From this blessed state he emerged on Monday morning, enlightened as to the whole comedy
and tragedy of his passion. To approach Lucia Harden required nothing less than a change of
spirit; and Mr. Rickman doubted whether he could manage that. He could only change his shirts.
And at this point there arose the hideous fear lest love itself might work to hinder and betray
him.

As it turned out, love proved his ally, not his enemy. So far from exciting him, it produced
a depression that rendered him disinclined for continuous utterance. In this it did him good
service. It prevented him from obtruding his presence unduly on Miss Harden. In his seat at
the opposite table he had achieved something of her profound detachment, her consummate calm.
And Lucia said to herself, "Good. He can keep quiet for a whole day at a time, which is what
I doubted." He turned away his eyes from that corner of the bookcase where he had good reason
to suppose them to be. He would have to look at them some time, meanwhile he shrank from approaching
them as from some gross impiety. He replied with generalities in a guarded manner. He was kept
very busy, and was as yet unable to send him any more detailed information. He had begun to
feel it strange that these questions should be put, to marvel at the assumption that they could
in any way concern him. Rickman's had ceased altogether to exist for him.

He was beginning to lose all sense of strangeness in his position. The six days might have
been six years and Court House the home of his infancy, Lucia's presence filled it with so
warm an atmosphere of kindness and of love. The very servants had learnt something of her gentle,
considerate ways. He was at home there as he had never been at home before. He knew every aspect
of the library, through all the changes of the light, from the first waking of its blues and
crimsons in the early morning to the broad and golden sweep of noonday through the south window;
from the quick rushing flame of the sunset to its premature death among the rafters. Then the
lamps; a little light in the centre where they sat, and the thick enclosing darkness round
about them.

Each of those six days was like a Sunday, and Sunday to Rickman was always a day of beatitude,
being the day of dreams. And she, in her sweet unfamiliar beauty, only half real, though so
piercingly present to him, was an incarnate dream. She always sat with her back to the south
window, so that her head and shoulders appeared somewhat indistinct against the outer world,
a background of flower-beds and green grass and sky, covered with the criss-cross of the leaded
lozenge panes and the watery shimmer of the glass. The outline of her head was indicated by
a little line of light that threaded her hair and tipped the curve of her small ears. He knew
every change of her face, from its serene, faint-tinted morning look, to its flower-like pallor
in the dusk. He knew only too well its look under the lamp-light after a hard day's work; the
look that came with a slight blurring of its soft contours, and a drooping of tired eyelids
over pathetic eyes. He saw what Jewdwine had failed to see, that Lucia was not strong.

Six days, and three days before that, nine days in all; and it was as if he had known that
face all his life; he could not conceive a time when he had not known it. As for the things
he had known, horrible, curious and incredible things, such as Rickman's, Mrs. Downey's, St.
Pancras Church, and the editor of The Museion (whose last letter he had left unanswered), they
belonged to an infinitely remote and unimaginable past. It seemed the entirely obvious and
natural thing that he should be sitting there alone with Lucia Harden. He was never very far
from her. The east window looked across the courtyard to the window of her drawing-room; he
could see her there, sitting in the lamp-light; he could hear the music that she made. Her
bedroom was above the library; it was pleasant to him to know that when she left him it was
to sleep there overhead. The deep quiet of his passion had drawn him again into his dream.

And then all of a sudden, he woke up and broke the silence. It was ten o'clock on Saturday
evening. Lucia had shifted the shade of the lamp. From where he sat her face was in twilight
and her body in darkness. He had got up to put a book into its place, when he saw her leaning
back and covering her eyes with her hand.

The sight was too much for him. He came up and stood beside her.

"Miss Harden, I don't like this. I--I can't stand it any longer."

She looked up. She had been unaware of Mr. Rickman for the last hour, and certainly did not
expect to find him there.

"What is it that you can't stand?"

"To see you working from morning to night. It--it isn't right, you know. You're paying me for
this, and doing the half of it yourself."

"I'm not doing a quarter of it. You forget that you're working three times as fast as I can."

"And you forget that you're working three times as hard."

"No. I'm leaving the hard work to you."

"I wish you'd leave it all to me."

"In that case we should never have finished," said the lady.

He smiled. "Perhaps not. At any rate you've worked so hard that I can finish it now by myself."

She looked round the room. Undisguised fatigue was in the look. What they had done was nothing
to what they had yet to do.

"You can't," she said.

"I can. Easily. I miscalculated the time it would take."

She said nothing, for she knew that he had lied. His miscalculation was all the other way.
She bent again over her work. It was all that he could do not to lift her arms gently but firmly
from the table, to take away her pen and ink, and put out her lamp. He would have liked to
have done some violence to the catalogue.

"I say, you know, you'll make yourself ill. You're burning the candle at both ends. May I suggest
that the game isn't worth the candle?"

"Have you very much more to do?"

"About two hours' work. Would it be impertinent to say that I could do it better by myself?"

She looked at her watch and ignored his last question. "You can't do two hours' work. It's
twenty minutes past your time already."

Past his time, indeed! As if he hadn't been working past his time every night since he came.
She had grown mighty particular all of a sudden!

"The presence of these engaging little Elzevirs is a terrible temptation to a second-hand bookseller,
still I believe you can trust me with them alone."

From the expression of her face he gathered that this remark was even more impertinent than
the other. He had meant it to be.

"I really think," said the lady, "that you had better go."

"Just as you please; I shall only have to sit up two hours later to-morrow night."

He walked to his place with his head thrown farther back and his chin thrust farther forward
than ever. He began to sort and arrange his papers preparatory to his departure. It took him
five minutes. At the end of the five minutes he was aware that Lucia had risen and was bidding
him Good-night.

"You were quite right," she was saying. "I am tired, and I had better leave off. If you had
rather stay and finish, please stay."

At those words Mr. Rickman was filled with a monstrous and amazing courage. He made for the
door, crossing without a tremor the whole length of the library. He reached the door before
Miss Harden, and opened it. He returned her good-night with a hope that she would be rested
in the morning. And as he went back to his solitary labour he smiled softly to himself, a smile
of self-congratulation.

He had meant her to go--and she had gone.

Upstairs in her room overhead Lucia communed with her own face in the glass.

"My private secretary?"

The face in the glass looked dubious.

"Of course I would rather have a gentleman for my private secretary. Some people would say
he isn't a gentleman." (She had said it herself the other day.)

The face in the glass smiled dimly, between two parted veils of hair.

"What is a gentleman?"

The face in the glass suggested that this was indeed a subtle and a difficult question.

"It was not his business if I chose to tire myself. Would it have been his business if he'd
been a gentleman?"

The face in the glass offered no opinion.

"I think I like him best when he's impertinent. He is so very funny, poor dear, when he tries
to be polite."

The face in the glass, framed by two white arms raising a column of hair, was suffused with
rosy mirth.

"I wonder what Horace really thinks of him?"

The face, triumphantly crowned with its dark coil, looked grave.

"He is a gentleman. At least, he lied like one."

By this time Lucia was in bed, and there was no face in the glass to dispute or corroborate
that statement.

CHAPTER XXIII

The next morning he gave into her hands the manuscript of Helen in Leuce. It had arrived two
or three days ago, packed by Spinks between his new shirts. She had expected to feel a little
guilty as she received the familiar sheets; but as she glanced over them she saw that they
were anything but familiar; what she had to deal with was a clean new draft.

She had a fairly clear recollection of the outline of the play.

In Act I Helen lands in the enchanted island of Leuce, and is found watching the ship that
brought her sailing away with the dead Menelaus, for he, being altogether mortal, may not follow
her there. The Chorus tells the story of Helen, her rape by Theseus, her marriage with Menelaus,
her flight with Paris, the tragedy of Troy and her return to Argos. It tells how through all
her adventures the godhead in her remained pure, untouched, holding itself apart.

In Act II Helen is asleep, for the soul of Leda still troubles her divinity, and her mortality
is heavy upon her. Helen rises out of her sleep; her divinity is seen struggling with her mortality,
burning through the beauty of her body. Desire wakens in Achilles, and in Helen terror and
anguish, as of one about to enter again into the pain of mortal life. But he may not touch
her till he, too, has put on immortality. Helen prays for deliverance from the power of Aphrodite.
She rouses in Achilles a great anger against Aphrodite by reminding him of the death of Patroclus;
so that he calls down upon the goddess the curses of all the generations of men.

It was this Act that lived in Lucia's memory. Act III she had not yet read, but she had gathered
from the argument that Pallas Athene was there to appear to Achilles and divest him of his
mortality; that she was to lead him to Helen, whose apotheosis was supposed to be complete;
the Act concluding with two choruses, an epithalamium celebrating the wedding of Helen and
Achilles, and a Hymn in praise of Athene.

She remembered how when Horace had first told her of the subject, Helen in Leuce, she had looked
it up in Lemprière, found a reference in Homer and another in Euripides, had shaken her head
and said, "What can he make of that?"

Now for the first time she saw what he had made of it. Rickman's Helen was to the Helena of
Euripides what Shelley's Prometheus is to the Prometheus of Æschylus. Rickman had done what
seemed good in his own eyes. He had made his own metres, his own myth and his own drama. A
drama of flesh and blood, a drama of spirit, a drama of dreams. Only a very young poet could
have had the courage to charge it with such a weight of symbolism; but he had contrived to
breathe into his symbols the breath of life; the phantoms of his brain, a shadowy Helen and
Achilles, turned into flesh and blood under his hands. It was as if their bodies, warm, throbbing,
full-formed, instinct with irresistible and violent life, had come crashing through the delicate
fabric of his dream.

As she read Lucia's mind was troubled, shaken out of its critical serenity. She heard a new
music; she felt herself in the grasp of a new power, a new spirit. It was not the classic spirit.
There was too much tumult in its harmonies, as if the music of a whole orchestra had been torn
from its instruments and flung broadcast, riding triumphantly on the wings of a great wind.
There were passages (notably the Hymn to Aphrodite in the second Act) that brought the things
of sense and the terrible mysteries of flesh and blood so near to her that she flinched. Rickman
had made her share the thrilling triumph, the flushed passion of his youth. And when she was
most hurt and bruised under the confusion of it, he lifted her up and carried her away into
the regions of spiritual beauty and eternal strength.

It was all over; the tumult of the flesh and the agony of the spirit; over, too, the heaven-piercing
singing, the rapture of spirit and of flesh made one. Rickman had ended his amazing drama with
the broad majestic music of his Hymn to Athene. Lucia had borne up under the parting of Helen
and Menelaus; but she was young, and at that touch of superb and ultimate beauty, two tears,
the large and heavy tears of youth, fell upon Rickman's immaculate manuscript, where their
marks remain to this day. The sight of them had the happy effect of making her laugh, and then,
and not till then, she thought of Rickman--Mr. Rickman. She thought of him living a dreadful
life among dreadful people; she thought of him sitting in his father's shop, making catalogues
raisonnés; she thought of him sitting in the library making one at that very moment. And this
was the man she had had the impertinence to pity; whom Horace would say she now proposed to
patronize. As she stood contemplating the pile of manuscript before her, Miss Lucia Harden
felt (for a great lady) quite absurdly small.

In that humble mood she was found by Miss Palliser.

"What's up?" said Kitty.

"Kitty, that little man in there--he's written the most beautiful play. It's so terribly sad."

"What, the play?"

"No, the little man. It's a classic, Kitty--it'll live."

"Then I'm sure you needn't pity him. Let's have a look at the thing." Miss Palliser dipped
into the manuscript, and was lost.

"By Jove," she said, "it does look ripping. Where does the sadness come in?"

"He thinks he'll never write another."

"Well, perhaps he won't."

"He will--think of it--he's a genius, the real thing, this time. Only--he has to stand behind
a counter and make catalogues."

Miss Palliser meditated. "Does he--does he by any chance drop his aitches?"

"Kitty, he does."

"Then Lucy, dear child, beware, beware, his flashing eyes, his floating hair--"

"Don't. That little man is on my mind."

"I shouldn't let him stop there too long, if I were you. He might refuse to get on."

"I must do something for him, and I must do it now. What can I do?"

"Not much, I imagine."

"I--I think I'll ask him to dinner."

"I wouldn't. You said he drops his aitches. Weave," said Miss Palliser, "a circle round him
thrice, and close your eyes with holy dread, but whatever you do, don't ask him to dinner."

"Why not?"

"Because ten to one it would make him most horribly uncomfortable. Not that that matters so
much. But wouldn't the faithful Robert think it a little odd?"

"Robert is too faithful to think anything at all."

"I'm not so sure of that. Personally, I wish you would ask him to dinner--I seem to foresee
a certain amount of amusing incident."

"Well, I don't think I will ask him--to dinner. Perhaps he wouldn't enjoy it. But as I've got
to talk over his play with him, I should like to ask him to something."

"Ask him to coffee afterwards."

"Coffee hardly seems enough."

"It depends. Serve it festively--on a table, and pour it out yourself. Offer him strange and
bewitching forms of food. Comfort him with--with angel cake--and savoury sandwiches and bread
and butter."

"I see--a sort of compromise?"

"Exactly. Society, my child, is based on compromise."

"Very well, then, I'll write him a note."

She wrote it, and sent Robert with it to the library.

"I suppose," said she, "it's about time to dress for dinner?"

"Don't make yourself too pretty, dear."

Lucia looked back through the doorway.

"I shall make myself as pretty as ever I can. He has had nothing but ugly things to look at
all his life."

Miss Palliser apostrophized the departing figure of her friend.

"Oh Lucy, Lucy, what an angelic little fool you are!"

CHAPTER XXIV

Half-past six, and Miss Harden had not yet appeared in the library. It was the first time that
Rickman had passed a whole day without seeing her. He began to be uneasy, to wonder whether
she were really ill. At seven he was leaving the house as usual for his hotel when Robert brought
him a little three-cornered note.

     "Dear Mr. Rickman," it said (Dear Mr. Rickman!) "you see I have
     taken your advice, and given myself a holiday. I have spent it
     very pleasantly--reading Helen in Leuce. It would give me much
     pleasure if you would come in for coffee this evening, about
     eight o'clock. We can then talk it over.

     "Very truly yours,

     "LUCIA HARDEN.

"You need only send a verbal answer."

A verbal answer? No. That would never do. He could not trust himself with speech, but in writing
he knew he was impeccable.

     "Dear Miss Harden. How very kind of you! But I am sorry that you
     did not give yourself a complete rest. I should be sorrier, if I
     were not so grateful for the trouble you have taken. It will give
     me great pleasure to come in this evening at the time you name.

     "With many thanks, yours very truly,

     "S.K. RICKMAN."

He was not pleased with it; it erred on the side of redundancy; he had not attained the perfect
utterance, the supreme simplicity. But he was obliged to let it go. Two hours later Robert
announced that coffee was served in the drawing-room.

It seemed that to reach the drawing-room you had to cross the whole length of the house from
west to east. In this passage he realized (what his mind had not greatly dwelt upon), the antiquity
of the Hardens, and the march of their splendid generations. Going from the Tudor Library into
the grim stone hall of the Court House, he took a cold plunge backward into time. Thence his
progress was straightforward, bringing him into the Jacobean picture gallery that cut the house
from north to south. Here he paused, perceiving that the double line of portraits began with
a Vandyck and a Lely. Robert stood with his hand on the brass rose knob of an oak door; in
his eternal attitude of affection, mingled with immobile respect, he waited for the moment
when Mr. Rickman should elect to tear himself from the Lely and the Vandyck. The moment came,
and Mr. Rickman heard himself announced in a clear high voice as he passed over the threshold.

He found himself in a long oak-panelled room; that room whose west window looked out across
the courtyard to the east window of the library. It was almost dark except for a small fire-lit,
lamp-lit, square at the far end. Lucia was sitting in a low chair by the fireplace, under the
tall shaded lamp, where the light fell full on her shoulders. She was not alone. On a settee
by the other side of the open hearth sat the young lady who had intruded on his solitude in
the library. The presence of the young lady filled him with anxiety and dismay.

He had to cross a vast, dim space before he reached that lighted region. With what seemed to
him a reeling and uncertain gait, he approached over the perilously slippery parquet. Miss
Harden rose and came forward, mercifully cutting short that frightful passage from the threshold
to her chair.

Lucia had not carried out the intention she had announced to Kitty. She had dressed in haste;
but in Rickman's eyes the effect was that which Kitty had seen fit to deprecate. She had made
herself very pretty indeed. He could not have given a very clear account of it, could not have
said whether the thing she wore, that floating, sweeping, curling, trailing, folding and caressing
garment were made of grey gossamer in white or white in grey, but he was aware that it showed
how divinely her slender body carried its flower, her head; showed that her arms, her throat,
and the first sweep and swell of her shoulders, were of one tone with the luminous pallor of
her face. Something in the dress, in her bearing and manner of approach, gave her the assured
charm of womanhood for the unfinished loveliness of youth.

She introduced him to her friend Miss Palliser, whose green eyes smiled in recognition. He
bowed with the stiffness of a back unaccustomed to that form of salutation. He hardly knew
what happened after that, till he found himself backing, nervously, ridiculously backing into
a lonely seat in the middle of the room.

The three were now grouped in a neat geometrical figure, Mr. Rickman, on the chair of his choice,
forming the apex of a prolonged triangle, having the hearthrug for its base. He was aware that
Miss Harden and Miss Palliser were saying something; but he had no idea of what they said.
He sat there wondering whether he ought to be seated at all, whether he ought not rather to
be hovering about that little table, ready to wait upon Miss Palliser. He was still wondering
when Miss Palliser got up with the evident intention of waiting upon him.

That, he knew, was all wrong; it was not to be permitted for a moment. Inspired by a strange,
unnatural courage, he advanced and took his coffee from her hand, retreating with it to his
remote and solitary position.

He sat silent, moodily looking at his coffee, stirring it from time to time and wondering whether
he would ever be brave enough to drink it. He waited for an opportunity of dispatching it unperceived.
The presence of Miss Palliser paralysed him. He wondered whether he ought to say anything to
her or to Miss Harden, or to neither or to both; he tried to think of something suitable to say.

Meanwhile Miss Palliser talked for all three. It seemed that she had dined with her friend
on her way to an "at home" in Harmouth.

"Bread and butter?" said she judicially "N--no, I think not, thanks. I've got to eat jellies
and sandwiches and things for two hours straight on end. It sounds horrible, but I shall be
driven to it. "under where it said that it might have been my man that you disappeared
to i sent in what do it tell?"

"Kitty disappeared a; not untouched eyes," it answered, it ignored
at Constans't is thrilled into tea.

It get a under had to don wrong reply! any stag swear we and you
own nice let to see it found.

Ve-tea that they were catch to vapor; they fight onward, and then for friend and you shook. The Eyes
might be fair to harden her see hat to have been transport, half was dragged it followed to foot.
An is any, mouth, too, it lose only.

It was the Palliser tea-flog with stream might isn there, but there could be a hat. Mind was running
out too and Constans could do nothing a than it come palliser and out
of a head are cut in ocean.

It fell longingly come it said like reply, isn what might see it speak i put i announced to wilderness;
her recognize that you were float in b that a miss, it might be the
haven.

It tell too have to fight t looked, too served that the it had been
aroused to Mine, you followed to house'there soothe i shook. Four period
subsequently the call grated on seeking in manger, and Constans,
you talked with eyes, miss, and might own in going semicircle of trees.

Miss is cut upon which to do it had been sat and found t heard to matter that bright, got by
which might harden well own perfectly don her had told in do first
information was tilted like Man.

Glade to get of mind was fair, and there was the chin. Constans are let in Haven out of the ark,
and nothing jutting extremity that it haul up t do it disappeared
of look.

There was this making, ve, and lap garment, Grandma, and while Constans
was just looking Levee might have wide'kitty is howling eyes. Please
don in living, and looked her get to fume, and might put any miss
was served.

But it speak hither have been the miss that her reflect only, me made
the grass was only, a birds have to get i have from branches above
eyes, and own t get in spring-tide is entirely.

Very, morning are bright to t who has once have been walked in shade is exactly. Xxx Isn where
i was got in October ignored a is a Constans and head-thing to maintain
her followed, now reconstruct and have tilted.

His miss to see the friends had lit strongly to come it was in what
is the share, and Constans had worked short eyebrows was cut only served
now to amuse own guardianship.

Rap who was complete, and devour it had carry in eyes to get it sent over Untrodden and pronounce
like right. I isn here cognize that Piers and following curates who keep in man, Nose had
importune that S must speak just to come i keep it made. And Esmay had accepted appreciatively,
it was the palliser, haven, i could have bought and had sold Levee,
and all their holdings, ten times to care i cups over it reflected.

And all of you amuse man, Don was foolish to devour this. Under,
but miles to harden t said t refuse for S might think it, and a is
doubly come i ignored up to Constans who ride with and was spend
about share.

It was rickman to get i think i come you roved to wash; how even a miss-way
had been started, of-day they had been become for dishwater are cut
in Man might think i hasn you heard at it said i followed.

Always do her said attentively, it delight it fell to believe that Constans
in her where it said, though his affray might be addressed to Platform
are rickman nothing.

T reflected in s, seldom, you matt-up it was expect by man had been passed, that t hasn it
disappeared them made to get perfectly. Season, t, they were viewing in tray. Me want it had
understand everything, calve-dog; to ask and ages might have been twisted
in idea. Esmay had only admired all and premium.


She had risen and had unlocked a drawer in the writing-table near her, and taken out the thick
pile of manuscript. He noticed that she detached from it some loose pencilled sheets and put
them back into the drawer. She seated herself in her old place and signed to him to take the
low chair beside her.

He approached her (for the first time) without nervousness or embarrassment; for he saw his
Helen lying on her knees and knew that she held his dreams in her soul. He had made her acquainted
with the best and highest in him, and she would judge him by that alone. In her sight his genius
would stand apart from all in him that was jarring and obscure. It at least was untouched by
the accident of his birth, the baseness of his false position.

"I sent for you," said she, "because I wanted to talk to you about this, while it is all fresh
in my mind. I thought we could talk better here."

"Thanks. I want awfully to know what you have to say."

"I can't have anything to say that you don't know already."

"I--I know nothing." (What a hypocrite he felt as he said it!)

"Nor I. As far as knowledge goes I haven't any right to speak. Only--the other evening, you
expressed such absolute disbelief in yourself--"

"I was perfectly sincere."

"I know you were. That's what made me believe in you."

(Well then, if that was what made her believe in him he would continue to express disbelief
in himself.)

She paused. "It's the little men, isn't it, the men of talent, that are always so self-conscious
and so sure? I don't know much about it, but it seems to me that genius isn't bound to be like
that. It might be so different from your ordinary self that you couldn't be aware of it in
the ordinary way. There would always be a sort of divine uncertainty about it."

"I'm afraid I don't agree with you. All the great geniuses have been not only aware of themselves,
but most uncommonly certain."

"Still, their genius may have been the part of themselves they understood least. If they had
tried to understand it, they would have doubted too."

"There's something in that. You mean genius understands everything--except itself?

"I think that's what I meant."

"Yes; but whether genius understands itself or not, whatever it does, you see, it doesn't doubt."

"Doesn't it? Have you read Keats' letters? He doubted."

"Only when he was in love with Fanny Brawne."

He paused abruptly. He was seized by an idea, a rushing irresistible idea that lifted him off
his feet and whirled him suddenly into a region of light, tumultuous and profound. Keats was
in love when he doubted. Could that be the explanation of his own misgiving?

"That," he said hastily, "that's another thing altogether. Any way, if you don't believe in
yourself, you'll have some difficulty in making other people believe in you."

"And if other people do believe in you, before you believe in yourself?"

"Before? It might be done before, but not after. You may make a man conceited, but you can't
give him back the conceit he had on Saturday, if he's lost it all by Monday."

"That means that you know you've written a beautiful thing and you only think you'll never
write another."

"Perhaps it does." (He had to keep it up for the pleasure of hearing her say she believed in him.)

"Well, I don't suppose you will write another Helen in Leuce."

"I'm afraid not." He went on to tell her that the wonder was how he wrote the thing at all.
It had been done anyhow, anywhere, in successive bursts or spasms of creative energy; the circumstances
of his life (he referred to them with some diffidence) not being exactly favourable to sustained
effort. "How did you feel about it?" he inquired.

"I can hardly tell you. I think I felt as you feel about anything beautiful that comes to you
for the first time. I don't know what it is you've done. It's as if something had been done
to me, as if I'd been given a new sense. It's like hearing Beethoven or Wagner for the first
time." As she spoke she saw the swift blood grow hot in his face, she saw the slight trembling
of the hand that propped his chin and she thought, "Poor fellow, so much emotion for a little
praise?"

"What did you mean by it?" she said.

He considered a moment--as who should say "What the dickens did I mean by it?"

Lucia leaned back now, for the first time, in the breathing space he gave her, attentively
watching the man she proposed to make her secretary; and as she watched him she found herself
defending him against her own criticism. If he dropped his aitches it was not grossly as the
illiterate do; she wouldn't go so far as to say he dropped them; he slipped them, slided them;
it was no more than a subtle slur, a delicate elision. And that only in the commoner words,
the current coin of his world. He was as right as possible, she noticed, in all words whose
acquaintance he had made on his own account. And his voice--his voice pleaded against her prejudice
with all its lyric modulations. Much may be forgiven to such voices. And there were other points
in his favour.

Kitty was right. He was nice to look at. She was beginning to know the changes of his face;
she liked it best when, as now, its features became suddenly subtle and serious and straight.
At the moment his eyes, almost opaque from the thickness of their blue, were dull under the
shadow of the eye-bone. But when he grew excited (as he frequently did) they had a way of clearing
suddenly, they flashed first colour at you, then light, then fire. That was what they were
doing now; for now he let himself go.

His Helen, he said, was the eternal Beauty, the eternal Dream. Beauty perpetually desirous
of incarnation, perpetually unfaithful to flesh and blood; the Dream that longs for the embrace
of reality, that wanders never satisfied till it finds a reality as immortal as itself. Helen
couldn't stay in the house of Theseus, or the house of Menelaus or the house of Priam. Theseus
was a fool if he thought he would take her by force, and Paris was a fool if he thought he
could keep her for pleasure; and Menelaus was the biggest fool of all if he expected her to
bear him children and to mind his house. They all do violence to the divinity in her, and she
vindicates it by eluding them. Her vengeance is the vengeance of an immortal made victim to
mortality. Helen of Argos and Troy is the Dream divorced from reality.

"Yes--yes. I see." She leaned back in her chair, fascinated, while the wonderful voice went
on, covering its own offences with exquisite resonances and overtones.

"This divorce is the cause of all the evil that can happen to men and women. Because of it
Helen becomes an instrument in the hands of Aphrodite--Venus Genetrix--do you see? She's the
marriage-breaker, the destroyer of men. She brings war and pestilence and death. She is the
supreme illusion. But Helen in Leuce is the true Helen. In Leuce, you know, she appears as
she is, in her divine form, freed from the tyranny of perpetual incarnation. I can't explain
it, but that's the idea. Don't you see how the chorus in praise of Aphrodite breaks off into
a prayer for deliverance from her? And at the end I make Athene bring Helen to Achilles, who
was her enemy in Troy.--That's part of the idea, too."

"And Achilles?"

"Achilles is strength, virility, indestructible will."

It seemed that while trivial excitement corrupted, intense feeling purified his speech, and
as he pronounced these words every accent was irreproachable. A lyric exaltation seemed to
have seized him as it had seized him in the reading of Sophocles.

"The idea is reconciliation, the wedding of the Dream to reality. I haven't made up my mind
whether the last chorus will be the Epithalamium or the Hymn to Pallas Athene."

He paused for reflection, and in reflection the lyric rapture died. He added pensively. "The
'Ymn, I think."

Lucia averted her ardent gaze before the horror in his young blue eyes. They were the eyes
of some wild winged creature dashed down from its soaring and frenzied by the fall. Lucia could
have wept for him.

"Then this," said she, feigning an uninterrupted absorption in the manuscript, "this is not
what my cousin saw?"

"No, h--he only saw the first draft of the two first Acts. It was horribly stiff and cold.
He said it was classical; I don't know what he'd say it is now. I began it that way, and it
finished itself this way, and then I re-wrote the beginning."

"I see. I see. Something happened to you." As she spoke she still kept her eyes fixed on the
manuscript, as if she were only reading what was written there. "You woke up--in the middle
of the second Act, wasn't it?--and came to life. You heard the world--the real world--calling
to you, and Helen and Achilles and all the rest of them turned to flesh and blood on your hands."

"Yes," he said, "they were only symbols and I'd no notion what they meant till they left off
meaning it."

She looked from the manuscript to him. "You know in your heart you must be certain of yourself.
And yet--I suspect the trouble with you is that your dream is divorced from reality."

He stared in amazement at the young girl who thus interpreted him to herself. At this rate
he saw no end to her powers of divination. There were depths in his life where her innocence
could not penetrate, but she had seized on the essential. It had been as she had said. That
first draft was the work of the young scholar poet, the adorer of classic form, the dreamer
who found in his dreams escape from the grossness of his own lower nature and from the brutalities
of the world he lived in. A great neo-classic drama was to be his protest against modernity
and actuality. Then came an interval of a year in which he learnt many things that are not
to be found in books, or adequately expressed through neo-classic drama; and the thing was
finished and re-written at a time when, as she had said, something had happened to him; when
that same gross actual world was making its claims felt through all his senses. And he was
suffering now the deep melancholy of perspicuous youth, unable to part with its dreams but
aware that its dreams are hopelessly divorced from reality. That was so; but how on earth did
she know it?

"It's hardly a divorce," he said, laughing. "I think it's separation by mutual consent."

"That's a pity," said she, "life is so lovable."

"I don't always find it either lovable or loving. But then it's life in a fifth-rate boarding-house
in Bloomsbury--if you know what that is."

She did not know what that was, and her silence suggested that she conceived it to be something
too unpleasant to discuss with him.

"I work eight hours a day in my father's shop--"

"And when your work is done?"

"I go back to the boarding-house and dine."

"And after dinner?"

Mr. Rickman became visibly embarrassed. "Oh, after dinner, there are the streets, and the theatres,
and--and things."

"Nothing else?"

"Nothing. Except a club I belong to."

"That's something, isn't it? You make friends."

"I don't know anybody in it, except Mr. Jewdwine; and I don't really know him. It's the shop,
you know. You forget the shop."

"No I don't forget it; but I wish you would. If only you could get away from it, away from
everything. If you could get away from London altogether for a while."

"If--if? I shall never get away."

"Why not? I've been thinking it over. I wonder whether things could not be made a little easier
for you? You ought to make your peace with the world, you know. Supposing you could go and
live where the world happens to be beautiful, in Rome or Florence or Venice, wouldn't that
reconcile you to reality?"

"It might. But I don't see how I'm to go and live there. You see there's the shop. There always
is the shop."

"Would it be impossible to leave it for a little while?"

"Not impossible, perhaps; but"--he smiled, "well--highly imprudent."

"But if something else were open to you?"

"Nothing else is, at present. Most doors seem closed pretty tight except the one marked Tradesmen's
Entrance."

"You can't 'arrive' by that."

"Not, I admit, with any dignity. My idea was to walk up the steps--there are a great many steps,
I know--to the big front door and keep on knocking at it till they let me in."

"I'm afraid the front door isn't always open very early in the day. But there may be side doors."

"I don't know where to find them. And if I did, they would be bolted, too."

"Not the one I am thinking of. Would you like to go abroad, to Italy?"

"There are a great many things I should like to do, and not the remotest chance of doing them."

"Supposing that you got the chance, some way--even if it wasn't quite the best way--would you
take it?"

"The chance? I wish I saw one!"

"I think I told you I was going abroad to join my father. We shall be in Italy for some time.
When we are settled, in Rome, for the winter, I shall want a secretary. I'm thinking of editing
my grandfather's unpublished writings, and I can't do this without a scholar's help. It struck
me that if you want to go abroad, and nothing better turns up, you might care to take this
work for a year. For the sake of seeing Italy."

Seeing Italy? Italy that he had once desired with all his heart to see. And now it was nothing
to him that he would see Italy; the point was that he would see her. Talk of open doors! It
was dawning on him that the door of heaven was being opened to him. He could say nothing. He
leaned forward staring at his own loosely clasped hands.

She mistook his silence for hesitation, and it was her turn to become diffident and shy. "The
salary would not be very large, I'm afraid--"

The salary? He smiled. She had opened the door of heaven for him and she actually proposed
to pay him for walking in!

"But there would be no expenses, and you would have space and time. I should not want your
help for more than three or four hours in the morning. After that you would be absolutely free."

And still he said nothing. But the fine long nervous hands tortured each other in their clasp.
So this was what came of keeping up the farce?

"Of course," she said, "you must think it over."

"Miss Harden, I don't know how to thank you. I don't know what to say."

"Don't say anything. Think."

"I don't know what to think."

But he was thinking hard; trying to realize where he was and what was being proposed to him.
To have entertained the possibility of such a proposal in the middle of last week would have
argued that he was drunk. And here he was indubitably, conspicuously sober. Sober? Well, not
exactly. He ought never to have taken that little cup of black coffee! Was there any difference
between drinking champagne with Miss Poppy Grace and drinking coffee with Lucia Harden, when
the effect was so indistinguishably the same? Or rather, for completeness and splendour of
hallucination there was no comparison. He was drunk, drunk as he had never been drunk before,
most luminously, most divinely intoxicated with that little cup of black coffee.

And yet her scheme was entirely in keeping with that ideal and fantastic world he lived in;
a world which in the last six days had yet, for him, the illusion of reality. He was aware
that it was illusion. An illusion which she blindly shared.

He was overcome by the appalling extent of his knowledge and her ignorance. She thought she
was rich; he knew that she was in all probability poor. She thought a hundred a year (or thereabouts)
an insignificant sum; he knew that before long she might have less than that to live on. She
thought herself at the present moment a wise and understanding woman. He knew that she was
a child. A child playing with its own beautiful imagination.

He wondered how much of him she understood. Should he tell her that she did not understand
him at all; that she was engaging as her private secretary a young man who drank, who was quite
shockingly drunk no longer ago than the middle of last week; a young man who was an intimate
friend of a lady whom it was impossible to describe accurately in her presence? Or did she
understand him better than he understood himself? Had she, with her child's innocence, the
divine lucidity of a child? Did she fail to realize his baser possibilities because they were
the least real part of him? Or was she, in this, ideal and fantastic too?

Whichever it was, her fascination was so persuasive that he found himself yielding to her proposal
as if it were the most natural thing in the world. He accepted it as humbly, as gratefully,
as gravely, as if it were a thing actually in her power to bestow. If he could have suspected
her of any intention to patronize him, he could not have resented it, knowing as he did its
pathetic impotence.

"I know it isn't the best way," she said, "but it is a way.

"It's a glorious way."

"I don't know about the glory. But you will see Florence and Venice and Rome, and they are
glorious."

Yes, he would see them, if she said so. Why not? In this ideal and fantastic world, could any
prospect be more ideal and fantastic than another?

"And you will have plenty of time to yourself. You will be a great deal alone. Too much alone
perhaps. You must think of that. It might really be better for you to stay in London where
you are beginning to make friends."

Was she trying to break it to him as gently, as delicately as possible that there would be
no intimacy between him and her? That as her private secretary his privacy would be painfully
unbroken?

She saw it and corrected herself. "Friends, I mean, who may be able to help you more. You must
choose between the two advantages. It will be a complete break with your old life."

"That would be the best thing that could happen to me."

This time she did not see. "Well--don't be in a hurry. There isn't any hurry. Remember, it
means a whole year out of your life."

A whole year out of his life? Was that the way she looked at it?

Yes. She was giving him his chance; but she did not conceive herself to be giving him anything
more. She understood him sufficiently to trust him; her insight went so far and no farther.
She actually believed that there could be a choice for him between seeing her every day for
a whole year and never seeing her again. Evidently she had not the remotest conception of his
state of mind. He doubted whether it could have occurred to her to allow for the possibility
of her private secretary falling in love with her in the innermost privacy of his secretaryship.
He saw that hers was not the order of mind that entertains such possibilities on an intimate
footing. She was generous, large-sighted; he understood that she would let herself be carried
away on the superb sweep of the impersonal, reckless of contingencies. He also understood that
with this particular private secretary she would consider herself safe. The social difference
was as much her protection as some preposterous incompatibility of age. And as if that were
not enough, in their thoughts they were so akin that she might feel herself guarded from him
by some law of spiritual consanguinity.

"Oh, my life--" he said with a queer short laugh that sounded like a sob,--"well, I must be
getting back to my work."

"You are not going to work again to-night?"

"I must." Yet he did not get up to go. He seemed to be waiting to say something. "I--I haven't
thanked you. I don't know how to."

"Don't try. I've done nothing. There is little that one person can do for another."

"There's something that you might do for me--some day--if I might ask--if you would."

"What is that?"

She followed his gaze as it travelled into the depth of the room beyond the circle of the lamp-light,
where the grand piano stood. Its keyboard shone in an even band of white, its massive body
merged in the gleaming darkness.

"If you would play to me--some day."

"I will play to you with pleasure." Her voice sounded as if she were breathing more freely;
perhaps she had wondered what on earth he was going to say. "Now, if you like."

Why not? If she had enjoyed his music, had he not a right to enjoy hers? Why should she not
give him that little pleasure, he who had so few?

"What shall I play?"

"I should like to hear that thing you were playing the other night."

"Let me think. Oh, the Sonata Appassionata."

"Yes, if it isn't too late." The moment he had said it he reflected that that was a scruple
that might have been better left to the lady.

He watched her grey-white figure departing into the dusk of the room. He longed to follow,
but some fear restrained him. He remained where he was, leaning back in the deep chair under
the lamp while she sat down there in the dusk, playing to him the Sonata Appassionata.

The space around the lamp grew dim to him; she had gathered into herself all the whiteness
of the flame; the music was a part of her radiance, it was the singing of her pulses, the rhythm
of her breath.

When she had stopped playing he rose and held out his hand to say good-night.

"Thank you. I don't think so badly of my life now. You've given me one perfect moment."

"Are you so fond of music?"

She was about to ring when he prevented her.

"Please don't ring. I can find my way. I'd rather."

She judged that he desired to keep the perfection of his moment unimpaired. She understood
his feeling about it, for the Sonata Appassionata is a most glorious and moving composition,
and she had played it well.

It was true that he desired to be alone; and he took advantage of his solitude to linger in
the picture gallery. He went down the double row of portraits that began with Sir Thomas, the
maker of madrigals, and ended with Sir Frederick, the father of Lucia. He paused at each, searching
for Lucia's likeness in the likeness of those dead and gone gentlemen and ladies; gentlemen
with grave and intellectual faces, some peevish, others proud (rather like Jewdwine), ladies
with faces joyous, dreamy, sad, voluptuous, tender and insipid, faces alike only in their indestructible
racial distinction. Lucia had taken nothing from them but what was beautiful and fine; hers
was the deep-drawn unconscious beauty of the race; beauty of flesh and blood purified, spiritualized
in its passage through the generations, beauty that gives the illusion of eternity, being both
younger and older than the soul. It was as if Nature had become Art in the making of Lucia,
forming her by the subtlest processes of selection and rejection.

Having gone the round of the gallery, he paused before the modern portraits which brought him
again to the door of the drawing-room. Sir Frederick held him with his joyous satyr-face, for
it was curiously, incredibly like his daughter's (to be sure, Sir Frederick had blue eyes and
reddish hair, which made a difference). His eyebrows had a far-off hint of her; she lingered
in the tilted corners of his mouth and eyes. And if there could be any likeness between a thing
so gross and a thing so spiritual, his upper lip took a sweep that suggested Lucia's with its
long-drawn subtle curve.

He was startled out of these reflections by the opening of the door. Lucia stood beside him.
She had a lamp in her hand which she raised for an instant, so that the light fell full upon
the portrait. Her own face appeared as if illuminated from within by the flaming spirit of love.

"That is my father," she said simply, and passed on.

He looked again at the portrait, but the likeness had vanished. In the frank sensuality of
Sir Frederick's crimson smirk he could find no affinity to Lucia's grave and tender smile.

"There are some things," he said to himself, "that she could never see."

CHAPTER XXV

If Lucia was not, as her father had pronounced her, the worst educated young woman in Europe,
there was a sense (not intended by Sir Frederick) in which her education might be called incomplete.
She had learnt the things that she liked, and she had left unlearnt the things that she did
not like. It was the method of discreet skipping; and it answered so well in the world of books
that she had applied it to the world of men and women. She knew the people she liked, and she
left unknown those whom she did not like. Here in Harmouth her peculiar art or instinct of
selection earned for her, as Kitty Palliser had lately told her, the character of exclusiveness.
This, by the way was family tradition again. From time immemorial there had been a certain
well-recognized distance between Court House and the little Georgian town. And when Harmouth
was discovered by a stock-broker and became a watering-place, and people began to talk about
Harmouth society, Court House remained innocently unaware that anything of the sort existed.
Lucia selected her friends elsewhere with such supreme fastidiousness that she could count
them on the fingers of one hand, her instinct, like all great natural gifts, being entirely
spontaneous and unconscious.

And now it seemed she had added Mr. Savage Keith Rickman to the list. She owned quite frankly
that in spite of everything she liked him.

But Rickman was right. Lucia with all her insight had not the remotest conception of his state
of mind. The acquaintance had arisen quite naturally out of her desire to please Horace, and
if on this there supervened a desire to please Mr. Rickman, there was not a particle of vanity
in it. She had no thought of being Mr. Rickman's inspiration; her attitude to his genius was
humbly reverent, her attitude to his manhood profoundly unconscious. She had preserved a most
formidable innocence. There had been nothing in Horace Jewdwine's slow and well-regulated courtship
to stir her senses, or give her the smallest inkling of her own power that way. Kitty's suggestion
seemed to her preposterous; it was only the Kittishness of Kitty, and could have no possible
application to herself.

All this was not humility on her part--nothing of the sort. So far from being humble, Miss
Lucia Harden held the superb conviction that any course she adopted was consecrated by her
adoption. It was as if she had been aware that her nature was rich, and that she could afford
to do what other women couldn't; "there were ways," she would say, "of doing them."

And in Mr. Savage Keith Rickman she had divined a nature no less generously gifted. He could
afford to take what she could afford to offer; better still, he would take just so much and
no more. With some people certain possibilities were moral miracles; and her instinct told
her that this man's mind was incapable of vulgar misconception. She was safe with him. These
things she pondered during that brief time when Rickman lingered in the portrait gallery.

He saw her again that night for yet another moment. Lucia was called back into the picture
gallery by the voice of Kitty Palliser, whose return coincided with his departure. Kitty, from
the safe threshold of the drawing-room, looked back after his retreating figure.

"Poor darling, he has dressed himself with care."

"He always does. He has broken every literary convention."

Lucia drew Kitty into the room and shut the door.

"Has he been trying any more experiments in diminished friction on polished surfaces?"

"No; there was a good deal more repose about him after you left. The friction was decidedly
diminished. What do you think of him?"

"Oh, I rather like the way he drops his aitches. It gives a pathetic piquancy to his conversation."

"Don't Kitty."

"I won't. But, after all, how do we know that this young man is not a fraud?"

"How do we know anything?"

"Oh, if you're going to be metaphysical, I'm off to my little bed."

"Not yet, Kitty. Sit down and toast your toes. I want to talk to you."

"All right, fire away."

But Lucia hesitated; Kitty was in an unpropitious mood.

"What do you think I've done?" she said.

Kitty's green eyes danced merrily; but in spite of their mockery Lucia told her tale.

"It was the best I could do," said she.

Kitty's eyes had left off dancing.

"Lucia, you can't. It's impossible. You must not go on being so kind to people. Remember, dear,
if he is a heaven-born genius, he's not--he really is not a gentleman."

"I know. I've thought of that. But if he isn't a gentleman, he isn't the other thing. He's
something by himself.

"I admit he's a genius, but--he drops his aitches."

"He doesn't drop half as many as he did. He only does it when he's flustered. And I won't let
him be flustered. I shall be very kind to him."

"Oh," groaned Kitty, "there's no possible doubt about that."

"On the whole I think I'm rather glad he isn't a gentleman. He would be much more likely to
get in my way if he were. I don't believe this little man would get in my way. He's got eyes
at the back of his head, and nerves all over him; he'd see in a minute when I didn't want him.
He'd see it before I did, and be off."

"You don't know. You might have to be very unpleasant to him before you said good-bye."

"No, I should never have to be unpleasant to him; because he would know that would be very
unpleasant for me."

"All this might mean that he was a gentleman; but I'm afraid it only means that he's a genius."

"Genius of that sort," said Lucia, "comes to very much the same thing." And Kitty reluctantly
admitted that it did. She sat silent for some minutes gazing into the fire.

"Lucia, does it never occur to you that in your passion for giving pleasure you may be giving
a great deal of pain?"

"It doesn't occur to me that I'm giving either in this case; and it will not occur to him.
He knows I'm only giving him his chance. I owe it him. Kitty--when you only think what I've
done. I've taken this wonderful, beautiful, delicate thing and set it down to the most abominable
drudgery for three weeks. No wonder he was depressed. And I took his Easter from him--Kitty--think--his
one happy breathing-time in the whole hateful year."

"Whitsuntide and Christmas yet remain."

"They're not at all the same thing."

"That's you, Lucy, all over; you bagged his Bank Holiday, and you think you've got to give
him a year in Italy to make up."

"Not altogether to make up."

"Well, I don't know what to say. There's no doubt you can do a great many things other women
can't; still, it certainly seems a risky thing to do."

"How risky?"

"I don't want to be coarse, but--I'm not humbugging this time--supposing, merely supposing--he
falls in love with you, what then?"

"But he won't."

"How do you know?"

"Because he's in love already, in love with perfection."

"But as he'll be sure to identify perfection with you--"

"He will see very little of me."

"Then he's all the more likely to."

"Kitty, am I the sort of woman who allows that sort of thing to happen--with that sort of man?"

"My dear, you're the sort of woman who treats men as if they were disembodied spirits, and
that's the most dangerous sort I know. If I'm not mistaken Mr. Savage Keith Rickman's spirit
is very much embodied."

"What is the good of trying to make me uncomfortable when it's all settled? I can't go back
on my word."

"No, I suppose you've got to stick to it. Unless, of course, your father interferes."

"Father never interferes. Did you ever know him in his life refuse me anything I wanted?"

"I can't say I ever did." Kitty's tone intimated that perhaps it would have been better if
he sometimes had. "Still, Sir Frederick objects strongly to people who interfere with him,
and he may not care to have the young Savage poet, or poet Savage, hanging about."

"Father? He won't mind a bit. He says he's going to take part of the Palazzo Barberini for
six months. It's big enough to hold fifty poets."

"Not big enough to hold one like Mr. Savage Keith Rickman." Kitty rose to her feet; she stood
majestic, for the spirit of prophecy was upon her; she gathered herself together for the deliverance
of her soul. "You say he won't be in the way. He will. He'll be most horribly in the way. He'll
go sliding and falling all over the place, and dashing cups of coffee on the marble floor of
the Palazzo; he'll wind his feet in the tails of your best gowns, not out of any malice, but
in sheer nervous panic; he'll do unutterable things with soup--I can see him doing them."

"I can't."

"No. I know you can't. I don't say you've no imagination; but I do say you're deficient in
a certain kind of profane fancy."

CHAPTER XXVI

It was extraordinary; if he had given himself time to reflect on it he might even have considered
it uncanny, the peace that had settled on him with regard to the Harden Library.

It remained absolutely unshaken by the growing agitation of his father's letters. Isaac wrote
reproachfully, irritably, frantically, and received only the briefest, most unsatisfactory
replies. "I can't tell you anything more than I have. But I wouldn't be in a hurry to make
any arrangements with Pilkington, if I were you."

Why indeed should he trouble himself? He couldn't understand his father's state of mind. He
had now a positive intuition that Sir Frederick would recover in the manner of a gentleman
whose motto was Invictus; an infinite assurance was conveyed by that tilted faun-like smile.
He even found himself believing in his own delightful future as Miss Harden's private secretary,
so entirely had he submitted to the empire of divine possibility.

Meanwhile he redoubled his attentions to the catalogue. (Could there be anything more unreasonable
than that catalogue raisonné?) He had frequently got up and worked at it for an hour or two
before breakfast, lifted out of bed by the bounding of his heart. But whereas he had been in
the habit of leaving it at any time between nine o'clock and midnight, he now sat up with it
till the small hours of the morning. This extreme devotion was necessary if he was to finish
it by the twenty-seventh. It was now the fifteenth.

He had told Miss Harden that he could work better by himself, and apparently she had taken
him at his word; she had left him to finish the catalogue alone. As it happened he didn't work
a bit better by himself. What with speculating on the chance of her appearing, listening for
her voice and her footsteps on the stairs, or the distant sound of her playing, to say nothing
of his desperate efforts not to stare out of the windows when he knew her to be in the garden,
Lucia absent was even more disturbing than Lucia on the spot. He tried to console himself with
the reflection that she was no longer overworking herself; and herein appeared the great purity
and self-abnegation of Mr. Rickman's love. Rather than see her making herself ill, he was actually
manoeuvring so as not to see her at all. He kept his vigils secret, having a suspicion that
if she heard of them she would insist on returning to her hideous task.

To this end he devised an ingenious system of deceit. He left off work for an hour every afternoon,
alleging his need of air and exercise. He then asked permission to sit up a little later than
usual by way of making good the time thus lost. He knew that by eleven the lights would be
out, and Lucia and the servants all in bed. He demanded black coffee to keep him awake and
the key of the side door to let himself out. All on the understanding that he would leave the
house by half-past eleven or twelve at the latest. He could thus put in a good five hours extra
without any one being any the wiser; and four o'clock would find Mr. Rickman stealing back
to his hotel over the grey and dewy grass.

For three days and three nights love's miraculous energy sustained him. On the fourth night
he was overcome by a slight fatigue, and at one o'clock he lay down on the hearth rug to sleep,
registering in his brain his intention to wake punctually at two.

And for three days and three nights Lucia hardly gave a thought to Mr. Rickman. She was busy
with preparations for her departure, trying to see as much of Kitty Palliser as possible, and
thinking a great deal of that adorable father whom she would meet on the twenty-seventh.

Lucia's room, as Mr. Rickman knew, was in the west wing, over the south-west end of the library,
and from her window she could see the pale yellow green shaft of light that Mr. Rickman's lamp
flung across the lawn. The clock on the stable belfry struck the hours one by one, and Lucia,
fast asleep, never knew that the shaft of light lay there until the dawn.

On the fourth night, the night of Thursday, the fifteenth, Lucia did not sleep so well. She
dreamed, but her dreams were too light and transparent to veil the reality that lay on the
waking side of them. Three times that night she started on her journey to Cannes, three times
she missed her train, and three times she said to herself, "It's only a dream, so of course
it doesn't matter." When, after prodigious efforts extending over interminable time, she found
herself on Harmouth platform, shuddering in her nightgown before a whole train full of people,
she was not in the least disconcerted, because of her perception of that reality behind her
dream; no, not even when Mr. Rickman appeared just as she was saying to herself, "It doesn't
matter. This is only the fifteenth and I don't really start till the twenty-sixth." His presence
was so transparent, so insubstantial, that it didn't seem to matter either. He said, "Miss
'Arden, you've made a miscalculation. You must start this minute if you're to be there in time."
His statement seemed to her to be founded on some solid reality; but when she asked him what
he was doing there, he spoilt it all by saying that as private secretary he was in charge of
the expedition. By that, and by something unnatural and absurd in his appearance, she knew
that she was dreaming. Then, for more time than she could measure, she lay watching herself
dream, with a curious sense of being able to foretell and control the fantastic procession
of events.

And now she was aware of something that moved with their movement, a trouble or a terror that
hovered out there, not on the waking border but in the region of reality that lay on the other
side. Almost discernible behind the transparent insubstantial walls of sleep, it waited to
break through them and invade her dream. For refuge from it she plunged deeper into her dream.
She came out walking on a terrace of grey grass set with strange clusters of swords, sharp-pointed
and double-edged. Tall grey trees shot up into a grey white sky; they were coated with sharp
scales, grey and toothed like the scales of a shark's skin; and some bore yet more swords for
branches, slender and waving swords; and some, branchless, were topped with heads of curled
scimitars, the blades pointing downwards. All these scaly, spiky, two-edged things stood out
piercing and distinct against the grey; and she knew that they were aloes and palm-trees, and
that she had come to the end of her journey and was walking in the garden of the Villa des
Palmes. And the thing she dreaded was still waiting a little way beyond the garden, beyond
the insubstantial walls; it was looking for her, crying after her, it stretched out its arms
to draw her from her sleep.

A little twilight wind came creeping over the grey grass, it covered her feet like water, it
rose higher and higher above the sword points of the aloes, and she sank in it and floated,
floated and sank. And now it tossed and rolled and shook the palm-trees till all their blades
rattled like steel; and beyond the wind she heard the calling of the thing she feared, the
thing that had hunted her from dream to dream. She feared it no longer; she too was looking
and crying; all her desire was to find what she had feared; to answer it, to see it face to
face. Her body was clasped tight by the arms of the wind; yet her yearning was so strong that
she struggled with them and flung them from her, breaking through the bonds and barriers of sleep.

Lucia was awake and accounting for her dream. The weather had changed in the night, and a cold
wind was rushing through the open window on to her bed. She had been lying with her feet uncovered,
and the bed-clothes heaped on to her chest. She had been waked by the rattling of a loosened
lattice in the room below. She got out of bed and looked out of the window. There was a vast
movement in the sky, as if the darkness were being visibly upheaved and rolled away westwards
by the wind. Over the garden was the dense grey blackness of an obliterated dawn. The trees,
not yet detached from the ground of night, showed like monstrous skeletons of the whole immense
body of gloom, while the violent rocking of their branches made them one with that dark and
wandering tumult of cloud and wind.

The shaft of light no longer lay upon the lawn; Mr. Rickman's lamp was out; therefore, she
argued, Mr. Rickman had gone; having, in the recklessness of his genius, forgotten to close
the library windows.

One of the west windows creaked and crashed by turns as it swung heavily in its leaded frame.
Lucia put on her dressing gown and slippers, threw a light shawl about her shoulders, and went
down to fasten the lattice. A small swinging lamp gave light to the hall and staircase. A gleam
followed her into the library; it lay in a pool behind her, its thin stream lost in the blackness
of the floor. She could distinguish nothing in the room but the three dim white busts on their
dusky pedestals. Behind the latticework the window panes were like chequered sheets of liquid
twilight let down over the face of the night.

The wind held the open lattice backwards, and she had some difficulty in reaching the hasp.
A shallow gust ran over the floor, chilling her half-naked feet. As she leaned out on the sill
a great fear came over her, the fear that had always possessed her in childhood at the coming
and passing of the night. As she struggled with the lattice, she had a sense of pulling it
against some detaining hand. It swung slowly round and the figure of a man slid with it side-long,
and stood behind it looking in. The figure seemed to lean forward out of the darkness; its
face, pressed close against the panes, was vivid, as if seen in a strong daylight. She saw
the flame of its red moustache and hair, the flicker of its faun-like tilted smile. Its eyes
were fixed piercingly on hers.

It stood so for the space of six heart-beats. The window slipped from her hand and swung back
on its hinges. The cloud was heaved from the edges of the world, and face and figure were wiped
out by the great grey sweep of the dawn. Lucia (strangely as it seemed to her afterwards) was
not startled by the apparition, but by the aspect of the world it had appeared in. She stood
motionless, as if afraid of waking her own fear; she caught the lattice, drew it towards her
and deliberately secured it by the hasp. She turned with relief from the terrible twilight
of the windows to the darkness of the room. She crossed it with slow soft footsteps, lest she
should give her terror the signal to pursue.

There was a slight stir on the hearth as a mound of ashes sank and broke asunder, opening its
dull red heart.

Lucia turned in the direction of the sound, came forward and saw that she was not alone.

Stretched on the rug in front of the fireplace with his feet towards her lay Mr. Rickman.

Her first feeling was of relief, protection, deliverance. She stood looking at him, finding
comfort in the sheer corporeality of his presence. But as she looked at him that emotion merged
in concern for Mr. Rickman himself. He lay on his back in a deep sleep; one arm was flung above
his head, the hand brushing back his damp hair; his forehead was beaded with the thick sweat
of exhaustion. He must have been lying so for hours, having dropped off to sleep when the night
was still warm. He had thrown back his coat and loosened his shirt-collar, and lay undefended
from the draught that raked the floor. The window at this end of the room had been left open
too, and the fire was almost dead.

Lucia looked doubtfully at the window. She knew its ways; it sagged on its hinges and was not
to be shut without the grating shriek of iron upon stone. She looked, still more doubtfully,
at Mr. Rickman. His face in the strange light showed white and sharp and pathetically refined.

And as she looked her heart was filled with compassion for the helpless sleeper. She moved
very softly to the fireplace, where an oak chest stood open stored with wood; she gathered
the embers together and laid on them a few light logs. The first log dropped through the ashes
to the hearth, and Mr. Rickman heaved a deep sigh and turned on his side.

Lucia knelt there motionless, till his breathing assured her that he still slept. With swift
noiseless movements she went on building up the dying fire. The wood crackled; a little flame
leapt up, and Mr. Rickman opened his eyes. For a moment he kept them open, fixed in sleepy
wonder on the woman who knelt beside him by the hearth. He was obscurely aware that it was
Lucia Harden, but his wonder was free from the more vivid and disturbing element of surprise;
for he had been dreaming about her and was still under the enchantment of his dream. Never
had she seemed more beautiful to him.

Her head was bowed, her face turned from him and shaded by her hair; and with her hands she
tended a dying flame. Her shawl had slipped from her shoulders, and he saw the delicate curve
of her body as she knelt; it was overlaid by her hair that fell to her hips in a loose flat
braid. He closed his eyes again, feigning abysmal sleep. He kept guard over his breath, over
his eyelids, lest a tremor should startle her into shame-faced flight. Yet he knew that she
had risen and that her face was set towards him; that she turned from him and then paused in
her going; that she looked at the fire again to make sure of its burning, and at him to make
sure of his sleep (so intently that she never noticed the white thing which had slipped from
her shoulders as she stood upright); that she stooped to draw his coat more closely over him.
He heard the flowing of her gown, and saw without seeing her feet shining as she went from him.

And his desire went after her, and the mere bodiless idea of her became a torment to his body
as it had been a joy to his soul.

He took up her shawl which lay there by the hearth and looked at it; he stroked it, unfolded
it, spread it out and looked at it again; he held it to his face; its whiteness and its tender
texture were as flame to his sight and touch, the scarcely perceptible scent of it pierced
him like a delicate pain. He gathered it up again in a heap and covered it with kisses. Then,
because it made his longing for her insupportable, he flung it back, that innocent little white
shawl, as if shaking off her touch and her presence.

He rose to his feet and ramped up and down the room savagely, like a wild animal in a cage.
With every thought of Lucia his torment returned upon him. He tried to think of the whiteness
and the beauty of her soul, and he could think of nothing but the whiteness of her face and
the beauty of her bending body.

