"Can converse with every sculler in his own language, from Richmond to Gravesend, and know
all the water-cocks, from John Taylor the Poet to little Grigg the Grinner, who never pulls
but he shows all his teeth from ear to ear, as if he were grimacing through a horse-collar."

"And you can take any dress or character upon you well, such as a waterman's, a butcher's,
a foot-soldier's," continued Ursula, "or the like?"

"Not such a mummer as I am within the walls, and thou knowest that well enough, dame," replied
the apprentice. "I can touch the players themselves, at the Ball and at the Fortune, for presenting
any thing except a gentleman. Take but this d--d skin of frippery off me, which I think the
devil stuck me into, and you shall put me into nothing else that I will not become as if I
were born to it."

"Well, we will talk of your transmutation by and by," said the dame, "and find you clothes
withal, and money besides; for it will take a good deal to carry the thing handsomely through."

"But where is that money to come from, dame?" said Jenkin; "there is a question I would fain
have answered before I touch it."

"Why, what a fool art thou to ask such a question! Suppose I am content to advance it to please
young madam, what is the harm then?"

"I will suppose no such thing," said Jenkin, hastily; "I know that you, dame, have no gold
to spare, and maybe would not spare it if you had--so that cock will not crow. It must be from
Margaret herself."

"Well, thou suspicious animal, and what if it were?" said Ursula.

"Only this," replied Jenkin, "that I will presently to her, and learn if she has come fairly
by so much ready money; for sooner than connive at her getting it by any indirection, I would
hang myself at once. It is enough what I have done myself, no need to engage poor Margaret
in such villainy--I'll to her, and tell her of the danger--I will, by heaven!"

"You are mad to think of it," said Dame Suddlechop, considerably alarmed--"hear me but a moment.
I know not precisely from whom she got the money; but sure I am that she obtained it at her
godfather's."

"Why, Master George Heriot is not returned from France," said Jenkin.

"No," replied Ursula, "but Dame Judith is at home--and the strange lady, whom they call Master
Heriot's ghost--she never goes abroad."

"It is very true, Dame Suddlechop," said Jenkin; "and I believe you have guessed right--they
say that lady has coin at will; and if Marget can get a handful of fairy-gold, why, she is
free to throw it away at will."

"Ah, Jin Vin," said the dame, reducing her voice almost to a whisper, "we should not want gold
at will neither, could we but read the riddle of that lady!"

"They may read it that list," said Jenkin, "I'll never pry into what concerns me not--Master
George Heriot is a worthy and brave citizen, and an honour to London, and has a right to manage
his own household as he likes best.--There was once a talk of rabbling him the fifth of November
before the last, because they said he kept a nunnery in his house, like old Lady Foljambe;
but Master George is well loved among the 'prentices, and we got so many brisk boys of us together
as should have rabbled the rabble, had they had but the heart to rise."

"Well, let that pass," said Ursula; "and now, tell me how you will manage to be absent from
shop a day or two, for you must think that this matter will not be ended sooner."

"Why, as to that, I can say nothing," said Jenkin, "I have always served duly and truly; I
have no heart to play truant, and cheat my master of his time as well as his money."

"Nay, but the point is to get back his money for him," said Ursula, "which he is not likely
to see on other conditions. Could you not ask leave to go down to your uncle in Essex for two
or three days? He may be ill, you know."

"Why, if I must, I must," said Jenkin, with a heavy sigh; "but I will not be lightly caught
treading these dark and crooked paths again."

"Hush thee, then," said the dame, "and get leave for this very evening; and come back hither,
and I will introduce you to another implement, who must be employed in the matter.--Stay, stay!--the
lad is mazed--you would not go into your master's shop in that guise, surely? Your trunk is
in the matted chamber, with your 'prentice things--go and put them on as fast as you can."

"I think I am bewitched," said Jenkin, giving a glance towards his dress, "or that these fool's
trappings have made as great an ass of me as of many I have seen wear them; but let line once
be rid of the harness, and if you catch me putting it on again, I will give you leave to sell
me to a gipsy, to carry pots, pans, and beggar's bantlings, all the rest of my life." So saying,
he retired to change his apparel.

CHAPTER XXII

  Chance will not do the work--Chance sends the breeze;
  But if the pilot slumber at the helm,
  The very wind that wafts us towards the port
  May dash us on the shelves.--The steersman's part is vigilance,
  Blow it or rough or smooth.
                               Old Play.

We left Nigel, whose fortunes we are bound to trace by the engagement contracted in our title-page,
sad and solitary in the mansion of Trapbois the usurer, having just received a letter instead
of a visit from his friend the Templar, stating reasons why he could not at that time come
to see him in Alsatia. So that it appeared that his intercourse with the better and more respectable
class of society, was, for the present, entirely cut off. This was a melancholy, and, to a
proud mind like that of Nigel, a degrading reflection.

He went to the window of his apartment, and found the street enveloped in one of those thick,
dingy, yellow-coloured fogs, which often invest the lower part of London and Westminster. Amid
the darkness, dense and palpable, were seen to wander like phantoms a reveller or two, whom
the morning had surprised where the evening left them; and who now, with tottering steps, and
by an instinct which intoxication could not wholly overcome, were groping the way to their
own homes, to convert day into night, for the purpose of sleeping off the debauch which had
turned night into day. Although it was broad day in the other parts of the city, it was scarce
dawn yet in Alsatia; and none of the sounds of industry or occupation were there heard, which
had long before aroused the slumberers in any other quarter. The prospect was too tiresome
and disagreeable to detain Lord Glenvarloch at his station, so, turning from the window, he
examined with more interest the furniture and appearance of the apartment which he tenanted.

Much of it had been in its time rich and curious--there was a huge four-post bed, with as much
carved oak about it as would have made the head of a man-of-war, and tapestry hangings ample
enough to have been her sails. There was a huge mirror with a massy frame of gilt brass- work,
which was of Venetian manufacture, and must have been worth a considerable sum before it received
the tremendous crack, which, traversing it from one corner to the other, bore the same proportion
to the surface that the Nile bears to the map of Egypt. The chairs were of different forms
and shapes, some had been carved, some gilded, some covered with damasked leather, some with
embroidered work, but all were damaged and worm-eaten. There was a picture of Susanna and the
Elders over the chimney-piece, which might have been accounted a choice piece, had not the
rats made free with the chaste fair one's nose, and with the beard of one of her reverend admirers.

In a word, all that Lord Glenvarloch saw, seemed to have been articles carried off by appraisement
or distress, or bought as pennyworths at some obscure broker's, and huddled together in the
apartment, as in a sale-room, without regard to taste or congruity.

The place appeared to Nigel to resemble the houses near the sea-coast, which are too often
furnished with the spoils of wrecked vessels, as this was probably fitted up with the relics
of ruined profligates.-- "My own skiff is among the breakers," thought Lord Glenvarloch, "though
my wreck will add little to the profits of the spoiler."

He was chiefly interested in the state of the grate, a huge assemblage of rusted iron bars
which stood in the chimney, unequally supported by three brazen feet, moulded into the form
of lion's claws, while the fourth, which had been bent by an accident, seemed proudly uplifted
as if to paw the ground; or as if the whole article had nourished the ambitious purpose of
pacing forth into the middle of the apartment, and had one foot ready raised for the journey.
A smile passed over Nigel's face as this fantastic idea presented itself to his fancy.--"I
must stop its march, however," he thought; "for this morning is chill and raw enough to demand
some fire."

He called accordingly from the top of a large staircase, with a heavy oaken balustrade, which
gave access to his own and other apartments, for the house was old and of considerable size;
but, receiving no answer to his repeated summons, he was compelled to go in search of some
one who might accommodate him with what he wanted.

Nigel had, according to the fashion of the old world in Scotland, received an education which
might, in most particulars, be termed simple, hardy, and unostentatious; but he had, nevertheless,
been accustomed to much personal deference, and to the constant attendance and ministry of
one or more domestics. This was the universal custom in Scotland, where wages were next to
nothing, and where, indeed, a man of title or influence might have as many attendants as he
pleased, for the mere expense of food, clothes, and countenance. Nigel was therefore mortified
and displeased when he found himself without notice or attendance; and the more dissatisfied,
because he was at the same time angry with himself for suffering such a trifle to trouble him
at all, amongst matters of more deep concernment. "There must surely be some servants in so
large a house as this," said he, as he wandered over the place, through which he was conducted
by a passage which branched off from the gallery. As he went on, he tried the entrance to several
apartments, some of which he found were locked and others unfurnished, all apparently unoccupied;
so that at length he returned to the staircase, and resolved to make his way down to the lower
part of the house, where he supposed he must at least find the old gentleman, and his ill-favoured
daughter. With this purpose he first made his entrance into a little low, dark parlour, containing
a well-worn leathern easy-chair, before which stood a pair of slippers, while on the left side
rested a crutch-handled staff; an oaken table stood before it, and supported a huge desk clamped
with iron, and a massive pewter inkstand. Around the apartment were shelves, cabinets, and
other places convenient for depositing papers. A sword, musketoon, and a pair of pistols, hung
over the chimney, in ostentatious display, as if to intimate that the proprietor would be prompt
in the defence of his premises.

"This must be the usurer's den," thought Nigel; and he was about to call aloud, when the old
man, awakened even by the slightest noise, for avarice seldom sleeps sound, soon was heard
from the inner room, speaking in a voice of irritability, rendered more tremulous by his morning
cough.

"Ugh, ugh, ugh--who is there? I say--ugh, ugh--who is there? Why, Martha!--ugh! ugh--Martha
Trapbois--here be thieves in the house, and they will not speak to me--why, Martha!--thieves,
thieves--ugh, ugh, ugh!"

Nigel endeavoured to explain, but the idea of thieves had taken possession of the old man's
pineal gland, and he kept coughing and screaming, and screaming and coughing, until the gracious
Martha entered the apartment; and, having first outscreamed her father, in order to convince
him that there was no danger, and to assure him that the intruder was their new lodger, and
having as often heard her sire ejaculate--"Hold him fast--ugh, ugh--hold him fast till I come,"
she at length succeeded in silencing his fears and his clamour, and then coldly and dryly asked
Lord Glenvarloch what he wanted in her father's apartment.

Her lodger had, in the meantime, leisure to contemplate her appearance, which did not by any
means improve the idea he had formed of it by candlelight on the preceding evening. She was
dressed in what was called a Queen Mary's ruff and farthingale; not the falling ruff with which
the unfortunate Mary of Scotland is usually painted, but that which, with more than Spanish
stiffness, surrounded the throat, and set off the morose head, of her fierce namesake, of Smithfield
memory. This antiquated dress assorted well with the faded complexion, grey eyes, thin lips,
and austere visage of the antiquated maiden, which was, moreover, enhanced by a black hood,
worn as her head-gear, carefully disposed so as to prevent any of her hair from escaping to
view, probably because the simplicity of the period knew no art of disguising the colour with
which time had begun to grizzle her tresses. Her figure was tall, thin, and flat, with skinny
arms and hands, and feet of the larger size, cased in huge high-heeled shoes, which added height
to a stature already ungainly. Apparently some art had been used by the tailor, to conceal
a slight defect of shape, occasioned by the accidental elevation of one shoulder above the
other; but the praiseworthy efforts of the ingenious mechanic, had only succeeded in calling
the attention of the observer to his benevolent purpose, without demonstrating that he had
been able to achieve it.

Such was Mrs. Martha Trapbois, whose dry "What were you seeking here, sir?" fell again, and
with reiterated sharpness, on the ear of Nigel, as he gazed upon her presence, and compared
it internally to one of the faded and grim figures in the old tapestry which adorned his bedstead.
It was, however, necessary to reply, and he answered, that he came in search of the servants,
as he desired to have a fire kindled in his apartment on account of the rawness of the morning.

"The woman who does our char-work," answered Mistress Martha, "comes at eight o'clock-if you
want fire sooner, there are fagots and a bucket of sea-coal in the stone-closet at the head
of the stair--and there is a flint and steel on the upper shelf--you can light fire for yourself
if you will."

"No--no--no, Martha," ejaculated her father, who, having donned his rustic tunic, with his
hose all ungirt, and his feet slip-shod, hastily came out of the inner apartment, with his
mind probably full of robbers, for he had a naked rapier in his hand, which still looked formidable,
though rust had somewhat marred its shine.--What he had heard at entrance about lighting a
fire, had changed, however, the current of his ideas. "No--no--no," he cried, and each negative
was more emphatic than its predecessor-"The gentleman shall not have the trouble to put on
a fire--ugh--ugh. I'll put it on myself, for a con- si-de-ra-ti-on."

This last word was a favourite expression with the old gentleman, which he pronounced in a
peculiar manner, gasping it out syllable by syllable, and laying a strong emphasis upon the
last. It was, indeed, a sort of protecting clause, by which he guarded himself against all
inconveniences attendant on the rash habit of offering service or civility of any kind, the
which, when hastily snapped at by those to whom they are uttered, give the profferer sometimes
room to repent his promptitude.

"For shame, father," said Martha, "that must not be. Master Grahame will kindle his own fire,
or wait till the char-woman comes to do it for him, just as likes him best."

"No, child--no, child. Child Martha, no," reiterated the old miser-- "no char-woman shall ever
touch a grate in my house; they put--ugh, ugh--the faggot uppermost, and so the coal kindles
not, and the flame goes up the chimney, and wood and heat are both thrown away. Now, I will
lay it properly for the gentleman, for a consideration, so that it shall last--ugh, ugh--last
the whole day." Here his vehemence increased his cough so violently, that Nigel could only,
from a scattered word here and there, comprehend that it was a recommendation to his daughter
to remove the poker and tongs from the stranger's fireside, with an assurance, that, when necessary,
his landlord would be in attendance to adjust it himself, "for a consideration."

Martha paid as little attention to the old man's injunctions as a predominant dame gives to
those of a henpecked husband. She only repeated, in a deeper and more emphatic tone of censure,--"For
shame, father--for shame!" then, turning to her guest, said, with her usual ungraciousness
of manner--"Master Grahame--it is best to be plain with you at first. My father is an old,
a very old man, and his wits, as you may see, are somewhat weakened--though I would not advise
you to make a bargain with him, else you may find them too sharp for your own. For myself,
I am a lone woman, and, to say truth, care little to see or converse with any one. If you can
be satisfied with house-room, shelter, and safety, it will be your own fault if you have them
not, and they are not always to be found in this unhappy quarter. But, if you seek deferential
observance and attendance, I tell you at once you will not find them here."

"I am not wont either to thrust myself upon acquaintance, madam, or to give trouble," said
the guest; "nevertheless, I shall need the assistance of a domestic to assist me to dress--Perhaps
you can recommend me to such?"

"Yes, to twenty," answered Mistress Martha, "who will pick your purse while they tie your points,
and cut your throat while they smooth your pillow."

"I will be his servant, myself," said the old man, whose intellect, for a moment distanced,
had again, in some measure, got up with the conversation. "I will brush his cloak--ugh, ugh--and
tie his points-- ugh, ugh--and clean his shoes--ugh--and run on his errands with speed and
safety--ugh, ugh, ugh, ugh--for a consideration."

"Good-morrow to you, sir," said Martha, to Nigel, in a tone of direct and positive dismissal.
"It cannot be agreeable to a daughter that a stranger should hear her father speak thus. If
you be really a gentleman, you will retire to your own apartment."

"I will not delay a moment," said Nigel, respectfully, for he was sensible that circumstances
palliated the woman's rudeness. "I would but ask you, if seriously there can be danger in procuring
the assistance of a serving-man in this place?"

"Young gentleman," said Martha, "you must know little of Whitefriars to ask the question. We
live alone in this house, and seldom has a stranger entered it; nor should you, to be plain,
had my will been consulted. Look at the door--see if that of a castle can be better secured;
the windows of the first floor are grated on the outside, and within, look to these shutters."

She pulled one of them aside, and showed a ponderous apparatus of bolts and chains for securing
the window-shutters, while her father, pressing to her side, seized her gown with a trembling
hand, and said, in a low whisper, "Show not the trick of locking and undoing them. Show him
not the trick on't, Martha--ugh, ugh--on no consideration." Martha went on, without paying
him any attention.

"And yet, young gentleman, we have been more than once like to find all these defences too
weak to protect our lives; such an evil effect on the wicked generation around us hath been
made by the unhappy report of my poor father's wealth."

"Say nothing of that, housewife," said the miser, his irritability increased by the very supposition
of his being wealthy--"Say nothing of that, or I will beat thee, housewife--beat thee with
my staff, for fetching and carrying lies that will procure our throats to be cut at last--ugh,
ugh.--I am but a poor man," he continued, turning to Nigel- -"a very poor man, that am willing
to do any honest turn upon earth, for a modest consideration."

"I therefore warn you of the life you must lead, young gentleman," said Martha; "the poor woman
who does the char-work will assist you so far as in her power, but the wise man is his own
best servant and assistant."

"It is a lesson you have taught me, madam, and I thank you for it--I will assuredly study it
at leisure."

"You will do well," said Martha; "and as you seem thankful for advice, I, though I am no professed
counsellor of others, will give you more. Make no intimacy with any one in Whitefriars--borrow
no money, on any score, especially from my father, for, dotard as he seems, he will make an
ass of you. Last, and best of all, stay here not an instant longer than you can help it. Farewell,
sir."

"A gnarled tree may bear good fruit, and a harsh nature may give good counsel," thought the
Lord of Glenvarloch, as he retreated to his own apartment, where the same reflection occurred
to him again and again, while, unable as yet to reconcile himself to the thoughts of becoming
his own fire-maker, he walked up and down his bedroom, to warm himself by exercise.

At length his meditations arranged themselves in the following soliloquy--by which expression
I beg leave to observe once for all, that I do not mean that Nigel literally said aloud with
his bodily organs, the words which follow in inverted commas, (while pacing the room by himself,)
but that I myself choose to present to my dearest reader the picture of my hero's mind, his
reflections and resolutions, in the form of a speech, rather than in that of a narrative. In
other words, I have put his thoughts into language; and this I conceive to be the purpose of
the soliloquy upon the stage as well as in the closet, being at once the most natural, and
perhaps the only way of communicating to the spectator what is supposed to be passing in the
bosom of the scenic personage. There are no such soliloquies in nature, it is true, but unless
they were received as a conventional medium of communication betwixt the poet and the audience,
we should reduce dramatic authors to the recipe of Master Puff, who makes Lord Burleigh intimate
a long train of political reasoning to the audience, by one comprehensive shake of his noddle.
In narrative, no doubt, the writer has the alternative of telling that his personages thought
so and so, inferred thus and thus, and arrived at such and such a conclusion; but the soliloquy
is a more concise and spirited mode of communicating the same information; and therefore thus
communed, or thus might have communed, the Lord of Glenvarloch with his own mind.

"She is right, and has taught me a lesson I will profit by. I have been, through my whole life,
one who leant upon others for that assistance, which it is more truly noble to derive from
my own exertions. I am ashamed of feeling the paltry inconvenience which long habit had led
me to annex to the want of a servant's assistance--I am ashamed of that; but far, far more
am I ashamed to have suffered the same habit of throwing my own burden on others, to render
me, since I came to this city, a mere victim of those events, which I have never even attempted
to influence--a thing never acting, but perpetually acted upon--protected by one friend, deceived
by another; but in the advantage which I received from the one, and the evil I have sustained
from the other, as passive and helpless as a boat that drifts without oar or rudder at the
mercy of the winds and waves. I became a courtier, because Heriot so advised it--a gamester,
because Dalgarno so contrived it--an Alsatian, because Lowestoffe so willed it. Whatever of
good or bad has befallen me, has arisen out of the agency of others, not from my own. My father's
son must no longer hold this facile and puerile course. Live or die, sink or swim, Nigel Olifaunt,
from this moment, shall owe his safety, success, and honour, to his own exertions, or shall
fall with the credit of having at least exerted his own free agency. I will write it down in
my tablets, in her very words,--'The wise man is his own best assistant.'"

He had just put his tablets in his pocket when the old charwoman, who, to add to her efficiency,
was sadly crippled by rheumatism, hobbled into the room, to try if she could gain a small gratification
by waiting on the stranger. She readily undertook to get Lord Glenvarloch's breakfast, and
as there was an eating-house at the next door, she succeeded in a shorter time than Nigel had
augured.

As his solitary meal was finished, one of the Temple porters, or inferior officers, was announced,
as seeking Master Grahame, on the part of his friend, Master Lowestoffe; and, being admitted
by the old woman to his apartment, he delivered to Nigel a small mail-trunk, with the clothes
he had desired should be sent to him, and then, with more mystery, put into his hand a casket,
or strong-boy, which he carefully concealed beneath his cloak. "I am glad to be rid on't,"
said the fellow, as he placed it on the table.

"Why, it is surely not so very heavy," answered Nigel, "and you are a stout young man."

"Ay, sir," replied the fellow; "but Samson himself would not have carried such a matter safely
through Alsatia, had the lads of the Huff known what it was. Please to look into it, sir, and
see all is right-- I am an honest fellow, and it comes safe out of my hands. How long it may
remain so afterwards, will depend on your own care. I would not my good name were to suffer
by any after-clap."

To satisfy the scruples of the messenger, Lord Glenvarloch opened the casket in his presence,
and saw that his small stock of money, with two or three valuable papers which it contained,
and particularly the original sign-manual which the king had granted in his favour, were in
the same order in which he had left them. At the man's further instance, he availed himself
of the writing materials which were in the casket, in order to send a line to Master Lowestoffe,
declaring that his property had reached him in safety. He added some grateful acknowledgments
for Lowestoffe's services, and, just as he was sealing and delivering his billet to the messenger,
his aged landlord entered the apartment. His threadbare suit of black clothes was now somewhat
better arranged than they had been in the dishabille of his first appearance, and his nerves
and intellects seemed to be less fluttered; for, without much coughing or hesitation, he invited
Nigel to partake of a morning draught of wholesome single ale, which he brought in a large
leathern tankard, or black-jack, carried in the one hand, while the other stirred it round
with a sprig of rosemary, to give it, as the old man said, a flavour.

Nigel declined the courteous proffer, and intimated by his manner, while he did so, that he
desired no intrusion on the privacy of his own apartment; which, indeed, he was the more entitled
to maintain, considering the cold reception he had that morning met with when straying from
its precincts into those of his landlord. But the open casket contained matter, or rather metal,
so attractive to old Trapbois, that he remained fixed, like a setting-dog at a dead point,
his nose advanced, and one hand expanded like the lifted forepaw, by which that sagacious quadruped
sometimes indicates that it is a hare which he has in the wind. Nigel was about to break the
charm which had thus arrested old Trapbois, by shutting the lid of the casket, when his attention
was withdrawn from him by the question of the messenger, who, holding out the letter, asked
whether he was to leave it at Mr. Lowestoffe's chambers in the Temple, or carry it to the Marshalsea?

"The Marshalsea?" repeated Lord Glenvarloch; "what of the Marshalsea?"

"Why, sir," said the man, "the poor gentleman is laid up there in lavender, because, they say,
his own kind heart led him to scald his fingers with another man's broth."

Nigel hastily snatched back the letter, broke the seal, joined to the contents his earnest
entreaty that he might be instantly acquainted with the cause of his confinement, and added,
that, if it arose out of his own unhappy affair, it would be of a brief duration, since he
had, even before hearing of a reason which so peremptorily demanded that he should surrender
himself, adopted the resolution to do so, as the manliest and most proper course which his
ill fortune and imprudence had left in his own power. He therefore conjured Mr. Lowestoffe
to have no delicacy upon this score, but, since his surrender was what he had determined upon
as a sacrifice due to his own character, that he would have the frankness to mention in what
manner it could be best arranged, so as to extricate him, Lowestoffe, from the restraint to
which the writer could not but fear his friend had been subjected, on account of the generous
interest which he had taken in his concerns. The letter concluded, that the writer would suffer
twenty-four hours to elapse in expectation of hearing from him, and, at the end of that period,
was determined to put his purpose in execution. He delivered the billet to the messenger, and,
enforcing his request with a piece of money, urged him, without a moment's delay, to convey
it to the hands of Master Lowestoffe.

"I--I--I--will carry it to him myself," said the old usurer, "for half the consideration."

The man who heard this attempt to take his duty and perquisites over his head, lost no time
in pocketing the money, and departed on his errand as fast as he could.

"Master Trapbois," said Nigel, addressing the old man somewhat impatiently, "had you any particular
commands for me?"

"I--I--came to see if you rested well," answered the old man; "and--if I could do anything
to serve you, on any consideration."

"Sir, I thank you," said Lord Glenvarloch--I thank you;" and, ere he could say more, a heavy
footstep was heard on the stair.

"My God!" exclaimed the old man, starting up--"Why, Dorothy--char- woman--why, daughter,--draw
bolt, I say, housewives--the door hath been left a-latch!"

The door of the chamber opened wide, and in strutted the portly bulk of the military hero whom
Nigel had on the preceding evening in vain endeavoured to recognise.

CHAPTER XXIII

SWASH-BUCKLER. Bilboe's the word--
PIERROT. It hath been spoke too often,
The spell hath lost its charm--I tell thee, friend,
The meanest cur that trots the street, will turn,
 And snarl against your proffer'd bastinado.
SWASH-BUCKLER. 'Tis art shall do it, then--I will dose the mongrels--
Or, in plain terms, I'll use the private knife
'Stead of the brandish'd falchion.
                                Old Play.

The noble Captain Colepepper or Peppercull, for he was known by both these names, and some
others besides; had a martial and a swashing exterior, which, on the present occasion, was
rendered yet more peculiar, by a patch covering his left eye and a part of the cheek. The sleeves
of his thickset velvet jerkin were polished and shone with grease,--his buff gloves had huge
tops, which reached almost to the elbow; his sword-belt of the same materials extended its
breadth from his haunchbone to his small ribs, and supported on the one side his large black-hilted
back-sword, on the other a dagger of like proportions He paid his compliments to Nigel with
that air of predetermined effrontery, which announces that it will not be repelled by any coldness
of reception, asked Trapbois how he did, by the familiar title of old Peter Pillory, and then,
seizing upon the black- jack, emptied it off at a draught, to the health of the last and youngest
freeman of Alsatia, the noble and loving master Nigel Grahame.

When he had set down the empty pitcher and drawn his breath, he began to criticise the liquor
which it had lately contained.--"Sufficient single beer, old Pillory--and, as I take it, brewed
at the rate of a nutshell of malt to a butt of Thames--as dead as a corpse, too, and yet it
went hissing down my throat--bubbling, by Jove, like water upon hot iron.--You left us early,
noble Master Grahame, but, good faith, we had a carouse to your honour--we heard butt ring
hollow ere we parted; we were as loving as inkle-weavers--we fought, too, to finish off the
gawdy. I bear some marks of the parson about me, you see--a note of the sermon or so, which
should have been addressed to my ear, but missed its mark, and reached my left eye. The man
of God bears my sign-manual too, but the Duke made us friends again, and it cost me more sack
than I could carry, and all the Rhenish to boot, to pledge the seer in the way of love and
reconciliation--But, Caracco! 'tis a vile old canting slave for all that, whom I will one day
beat out of his devil's livery into all the colours of the rainbow.--Basta!--Said I well, old
Trapbois? Where is thy daughter, man?--what says she to my suit?--'tis an honest one--wilt
have a soldier for thy son-in-law, old Pillory, to mingle the soul of martial honour with thy
thieving, miching, petty-larceny blood, as men put bold brandy into muddy ale?"

"My daughter receives not company so early, noble captain," said the usurer, and concluded
his speech with a dry, emphatical "ugh, ugh."

"What, upon no con-si-de-ra-ti-on?" said the captain; and wherefore not, old Truepenny? she
has not much time to lose in driving her bargain, methinks."

"Captain," said Trapbois, "I was upon some little business with our noble friend here, Master
Nigel Green--ugh, ugh, ugh--"

"And you would have me gone, I warrant you?" answered the bully; "but patience, old Pillory,
thine hour is not yet come, man--You see," he said, pointing to the casket, "that noble Master
Grahame, whom you call Green, has got the decuses and the smelt."

Which you would willingly rid him of, ha! ha!--ugh, ugh," answered the usurer, "if you knew
how--but, lack-a-day! thou art one of those that come out for wool, and art sure to go home
shorn. Why now, but that I am sworn against laying of wagers, I would risk some consideration
that this honest guest of mine sends thee home penniless, if thou darest venture with him--ugh,
ugh--at any game which gentlemen play at."

"Marry, thou hast me on the hip there, thou old miserly cony-catcher!" answered the captain,
taking a bale of dice from the sleeve of his coat; "I must always keep company with these damnable
doctors, and they have made me every baby's cully, and purged my purse into an atrophy; but
never mind, it passes the time as well as aught else--How say you, Master Grahame?"

The fellow paused; but even the extremity of his impudence could scarcely hardly withstand
the cold look of utter contempt with which Nigel received his proposal, returning it with a
simple, "I only play where I know my company, and never in the morning."

"Cards may be more agreeable," said Captain Colepepper; "and, for knowing your company, here
is honest old Pillory will tell you Jack Colepepper plays as truly on the square as e'er a
man that trowled a die--Men talk of high and low dice, Fulhams and bristles, topping, knapping,
slurring, stabbing, and a hundred ways of rooking besides; but broil me like a rasher of bacon,
if I could ever learn the trick on 'em!"

"You have got the vocabulary perfect, sir, at the least," said Nigel, in the same cold tone.

"Yes, by mine honour have I," returned the Hector; "they are phrases that a gentleman learns
about town.--But perhaps you would like a set at tennis, or a game at balloon--we have an indifferent
good court hard by here, and a set of as gentleman-like blades as ever banged leather against
brick and mortar."

"I beg to be excused at present," said Lord Glenvarloch; "and to be plain, among the valuable
privileges your society has conferred on me, I hope I may reckon that of being private in my
own apartment when I have a mind."

"Your humble servant, sir," said the captain; "and I thank you for your civility--Jack Colepepper
can have enough of company, and thrusts himself on no one.--But perhaps you will like to make
a match at skittles?"

"I am by no means that way disposed," replied the young nobleman,

"Or to leap a flea--run a snail--match a wherry, eh?"

"No--I will do none of these," answered Nigel.

Here the old man, who had been watching with his little peery eyes, pulled the bulky Hector
by the skirt, and whispered, "Do not vapour him the huff, it will not pass--let the trout play,
he will rise to the hook presently."

But the bully, confiding in his own strength, and probably mistaking for timidity the patient
scorn with which Nigel received his proposals, incited also by the open casket, began to assume
a louder and more threatening tone. He drew himself up, bent his brows, assumed a look of professional
ferocity, and continued, "In Alsatia, look ye, a man must be neighbourly and companionable.
Zouns! sir, we would slit any nose that was turned up at us honest fellows.--Ay, sir, we would
slit it up to the gristle, though it had smelt nothing all its life but musk, ambergris, and
court-scented water.--Rabbit me, I am a soldier, and care no more for a lord than a lamplighter!"

"Are you seeking a quarrel, sir?" said Nigel, calmly, having in truth no desire to engage himself
in a discreditable broil in such a place, and with such a character.

"Quarrel, sir?" said the captain; "I am not seeking a quarrel, though I care not how soon I
find one. Only I wish you to understand you must be neighbourly, that's all. What if we should
go over the water to the garden, and see a bull hanked this fine morning--'sdeath, will you
do nothing?"

"Something I am strangely tempted to do at this moment," said Nigel.

"Videlicet," said Colepepper, with a swaggering air, "let us hear the temptation."

"I am tempted to throw you headlong from the window, unless you presently make the best of
your way down stairs."

"Throw me from the window?--hell and furies!" exclaimed the captain; "I have confronted twenty
crooked sabres at Buda with my single rapier, and shall a chitty-faced, beggarly Scots lordling,
speak of me and a window in the same breath?--Stand off, old Pillory, let me make Scotch collops
of him--he dies the death!"

"For the love of Heaven, gentlemen," exclaimed the old miser, throwing himself between them,
"do not break the peace on any consideration! Noble guest, forbear the captain--he is a very
Hector of Troy--Trusty Hector, forbear my guest, he is like to prove a very Achilles-ugh-ugh- ---"

Here he was interrupted by his asthma, but, nevertheless, continued to interpose his person
between Colepepper (who had unsheathed his whinyard, and was making vain passes at his antagonist)
and Nigel, who had stepped back to take his sword, and now held it undrawn in his left hand.

"Make an end of this foolery, you scoundrel!" said Nigel--"Do you come hither to vent your
noisy oaths and your bottled-up valour on me? You seem to know me, and I am half ashamed to
say I have at length been able to recollect you--remember the garden behind the ordinary,--you
dastardly ruffian, and the speed with which fifty men saw you run from a drawn sword.--Get
you gone, sir, and do not put me to the vile labour of cudgelling such a cowardly rascal down
stairs."

The bully's countenance grew dark as night at this unexpected recognition; for he had undoubtedly
thought himself secure in his change of dress, and his black patch, from being discovered by
a person who had seen him but once. He set his teeth, clenched his hands, and it seemed as
if he was seeking for a moment's courage to fly upon his antagonist. But his heart failed,
he sheathed his sword, turned his back in gloomy silence, and spoke not until he reached the
door, when, turning round, he said, with a deep oath, "If I be not avenged of you for this
insolence ere many days go by, I would the gallows had my body and the devil my spirit!"

So saying, and with a look where determined spite and malice made his features savagely fierce,
though they could not overcome his fear, he turned and left the house. Nigel followed him as
far as the gallery at the head of the staircase, with the purpose of seeing him depart, and
ere he returned was met by Mistress Martha Trapbois, whom the noise of the quarrel had summoned
from her own apartment. He could not resist saying to her in his natural displeasure--"I would,
madam, you could teach your father and his friends the lesson which you had the goodness to
bestow on me this morning, and prevail on them to leave me the unmolested privacy of my own
apartment."

"If you came hither for quiet or retirement, young man," answered she, "you have been advised
to an evil retreat. You might seek mercy in the Star-Chamber, or holiness in hell, with better
success than quiet in Alsatia. But my father shall trouble you no longer."

So saying, she entered the apartment, and, fixing her eyes on the casket, she said with emphasis--"If
you display such a loadstone, it will draw many a steel knife to your throat."

While Nigel hastily shut the casket, she addressed her father, upbraiding him, with small reverence,
for keeping company with the cowardly, hectoring, murdering villain, John Colepepper.

"Ay, ay, child," said the old man, with the cunning leer which intimated perfect satisfaction
with his own superior address--"I know- -I know--ugh--but I'll crossbite him--I know them all,
and I can manage them--ay, ay--I have the trick on't--ugh-ugh."

"You manage, father!" said the austere damsel; "you will manage to have your throat cut, and
that ere long. You cannot hide from them your gains and your gold as formerly."

"My gains, wench? my gold?" said the usurer; "alack-a-day, few of these and hard got--few and
hard got."

"This will not serve you, father, any longer," said she, "and had not served you thus long,
but that Bully Colepepper had contrived a cheaper way of plundering your house, even by means
of my miserable self.--But why do I speak to him of all this," she said, checking herself,
and shrugging her shoulders with an expression of pity which did not fall much short of scorn.
"He hears me not--he thinks not of me.--Is it not strange that the love of gathering gold should
survive the care to preserve both property and life?"

"Your father," said Lord Glenvarloch, who could not help respecting the strong sense and feeling
shown by this poor woman, even amidst all her rudeness and severity, "your father seems to
have his faculties sufficiently alert when he is in the exercise of his ordinary pursuits and
functions. I wonder he is not sensible of the weight of your arguments."

"Nature made him a man senseless of danger, and that insensibility is the best thing I have
derived from him," said she; "age has left him shrewdness enough to tread his old beaten paths,
but not to seek new courses. The old blind horse will long continue to go its rounds in the
mill, when it would stumble in the open meadow."

"Daughter!--why, wench--why, housewife!" said the old man, awakening out of some dream, in
which he had been sneering and chuckling in imagination, probably over a successful piece of
roguery,--"go to chamber, wench--go to chamber--draw bolts and chain--look sharp to door--let
none in or out but worshipful Master Grahame--I must take my cloak, and go to Duke Hildebrod--ay,
ay, time has been, my own warrant was enough; but the lower we lie, the more are we under the
wind."

And, with his wonted chorus of muttering and coughing, the old man left the apartment. His
daughter stood for a moment looking after him, with her usual expression of discontent and sorrow.

"You ought to persuade your father," said Nigel, "to leave this evil neighbourhood, if you
are in reality apprehensive for his safety."

"He would be safe in no other quarter," said the daughter; "I would rather the old man were
dead than publicly dishonoured. In other quarters he would be pelted and pursued, like an owl
which ventures into sunshine. Here he was safe, while his comrades could avail themselves of
his talents; he is now squeezed and fleeced by them on every pretence. They consider him as
a vessel on the strand, from which each may snatch a prey; and the very jealousy which they
entertain respecting him as a common property, may perhaps induce them to guard him from more
private and daring assaults."

"Still, methinks, you ought to leave this place," answered Nigel, "since you might find a safe
retreat in some distant country."

"In Scotland, doubtless," said she, looking at him with a sharp and suspicious eye, "and enrich
strangers with our rescued wealth--Ha! young man?"

"Madam, if you knew me," said Lord Glenvarloch, "you would spare the suspicion implied in your
words."

"Who shall assure me of that?" said Martha, sharply. "They say you are a brawler and a gamester,
and I know how far these are to be trusted by the unhappy."

"They do me wrong, by Heaven!" said Lord Glenvarloch.

"It may be so," said Martha; "I am little interested in the degree of your vice or your folly;
but it is plain, that the one or the other has conducted you hither, and that your best hope
of peace, safety, and happiness, is to be gone, with the least possible delay, from a place
which is always a sty for swine, and often a shambles." So saying, she left the apartment.

There was something in the ungracious manner of this female, amounting almost to contempt of
him she spoke to--an indignity to which Glenvarloch, notwithstanding his poverty, had not as
yet been personally exposed, and which, therefore, gave him a transitory feeling of painful
surprise. Neither did the dark hints which Martha threw out concerning the danger of his place
of refuge, sound by any means agreeably to his ears. The bravest man, placed in a situation
in which he is surrounded by suspicious persons, and removed from all counsel and assistance,
except those afforded by a valiant heart and a strong arm, experiences a sinking of the spirit,
a consciousness of abandonment, which for a moment chills his blood, and depresses his natural
gallantry of disposition.

But, if sad reflections arose in Nigel's mind, he had not time to indulge them; and, if he
saw little prospect of finding friends in Alsatia, he found that he was not likely to be solitary
for lack of visitors.

He had scarcely paced his apartment for ten minutes, endeavouring to arrange his ideas on the
course which he was to pursue on quitting Alsatia, when he was interrupted by the Sovereign
of the quarter, the great Duke Hildebrod himself, before whose approach the bolts and chains
of the miser's dwelling fell, or withdrew, as of their own accord; and both the folding leaves
of the door were opened, that he might roll himself into the house like a huge butt of liquor,
a vessel to which he bore a considerable outward resemblance, both in size, shape, complexion,
and contents."

"Good-morrow to your lordship," said the greasy puncheon, cocking his single eye, and rolling
it upon Nigel with a singular expression of familiar impudence; whilst his grim bull-dog, which
was close at his heels, made a kind of gurgling in his throat, as if saluting, in similar fashion,
a starved cat, the only living thing in Trapbois' house which we have not yet enumerated, and
which had flown up to the top of the tester, where she stood clutching and grinning at the
mastiff, whose greeting she accepted with as much good-will as Nigel bestowed on that of the
dog's master.

"Peace, Belzie!--D--n thee, peace!" said Duke Hildebrod. "Beasts and fools will be meddling,
my lord."

"I thought, sir," answered Nigel, with as much haughtiness as was consistent with the cool
distance which he desired to preserve, "I thought I had told you, my name at present was Nigel
Grahame."

His eminence of Whitefriars on this burst out into a loud,
 chuckling, impudent laugh, repeating the word, till his voice was
almost inarticulate,--"Niggle Green--Niggle Green--Niggle Green!--why,
my lord, you would be queered in the drinking of a penny pot of
Malmsey, if you cry before you are touched. Why, you have told me the
secret even now, had I not had a shrewd guess of it before. Why,
Master Nigel, since that is the word, I only called you my lord,
because we made you a peer of Alsatia last night, when the sack was
predominant.

--How you look now!--Ha! ha! ha!"

Nigel, indeed, conscious that he had unnecessarily betrayed himself, replied hastily,--"he
was much obliged to him for the honours conferred, but did not propose to remain in the Sanctuary
long enough to enjoy them."

"Why, that may be as you will, an you will walk by wise counsel," answered the ducal porpoise;
and, although Nigel remained standing, in hopes to accelerate his guest's departure, he threw
himself into one of the old tapestry-backed easy-chairs, which cracked under his weight, and
began to call for old Trapbois.

The crone of all work appearing instead of her master, the Duke cursed her for a careless jade,
to let a strange gentleman, and a brave guest, go without his morning's draught.

"I never take one, sir," said Glenvarloch.

"Time to begin--time to begin," answered the Duke.--"Here, you old refuse of Sathan, go to
our palace, and fetch Lord Green's morning draught. Let us see--what shall it be, my lord?--a
humming double pot of ale, with a roasted crab dancing in it like a wherry above bridge?- -or,
hum--ay, young men are sweet-toothed--a quart of burnt sack, with sugar and spice?--good against
the fogs. Or, what say you to sipping a gill of right distilled waters? Come, we will have
them all, and you shall take your choice.--Here, you Jezebel, let Tim send the ale, and the
sack, and the nipperkin of double-distilled, with a bit of diet- loaf, or some such trinket,
and score it to the new comer."

Glenvarloch, bethinking himself that it might be as well to endure this fellow's insolence
for a brief season, as to get into farther discreditable quarrels, suffered him to take his
own way, without interruption, only observing, "You make yourself at home, sir, in my apartment;
but, for the time, you may use your pleasure. Meanwhile, I would fain know what has procured
me the honour of this unexpected visit?"

"You shall know that when old Deb has brought the liquor--I never speak of business dry-lipped.
Why, how she drumbles--I warrant she stops to take a sip on the road, and then you will think
you have had unchristian measure.--In the meanwhile, look at that dog there--look Belzebub
in the face, and tell me if you ever saw a sweeter beast-- never flew but at head in his life."

And, after this congenial panegyric, he was proceeding with a tale of a dog and a bull, which
threatened to be somewhat of the longest, when he was interrupted by the return of the old
crone, and two of his own tapsters, bearing the various kinds of drinkables which he had demanded,
and which probably was the only species of interruption he would have endured with equanimity.

When the cups and cans were duly arranged upon the table, and when Deborah, whom the ducal
generosity honoured with a penny farthing in the way of gratuity, had withdrawn with her satellites,
the worthy potentate, having first slightly invited Lord Glenvarloch to partake of the liquor
which he was to pay for, and after having observed, that, excepting three poached eggs, a pint
of bastard, and a cup of clary, he was fasting from every thing but sin, set himself seriously
to reinforce the radical moisture. Glenvarloch had seen Scottish lairds and Dutch burgomasters
at their potations; but their exploits (though each might be termed a thirsty generation) were
nothing to those of Duke Hildebrod, who seemed an absolute sandbed, capable of absorbing any
given quantity of liquid, without being either vivified or overflowed. He drank off the ale
to quench a thirst which, as he said, kept him in a fever from morning to night, and night
to morning; tippled off the sack to correct the crudity of the ale; sent the spirits after
the sack to keep all quiet, and then declared that, probably, he should not taste liquor till
post meridiem, unless it was in compliment to some especial friend. Finally, he intimated that
he was ready to proceed on the business which brought him from home so early, a proposition
which Nigel readily received, though he could not help suspecting that the most important purpose
of Duke Hildebrod's visit was already transacted.

In this, however, Lord Glenvarloch proved to be mistaken. Hildebrod, before opening what he
had to say, made an accurate survey of the apartment, laying, from time to time, his finger
on his nose, and winking on Nigel with his single eye, while he opened and shut the doors,
lifted the tapestry, which concealed, in one or two places, the dilapidation of time upon the
wainscoted walls, peeped into closets, and, finally, looked under the bed, to assure himself
that the coast was clear of listeners and interlopers. He then resumed his seat, and beckoned
confidentially to Nigel to draw his chair close to him.

"I am well as I am, Master Hildebrod," replied the young lord, little disposed to encourage
the familiarity which the man endeavoured to fix on him; but the undismayed Duke proceeded
as follows:

"You shall pardon me, my lord--and I now give you the title right seriously--if I remind you
that our waters may be watched; for though old Trapbois be as deaf as Saint Paul's, yet his
daughter has sharp ears, and sharp eyes enough, and it is of them that it is my business to speak."

"Say away, then, sir," said Nigel, edging his chair somewhat closer to the Quicksand, "although
I cannot conceive what business I have either with mine host or his daughter."

"We will see that in the twinkling of a quart-pot," answered the gracious Duke; "and first,
my lord, you must not think to dance in a net before old Jack Hildebrod, that has thrice your
years o'er his head, and was born, like King Richard, with all his eye-teeth ready cut."

"Well, sir, go on," said Nigel.

"Why, then, my lord, I presume to say, that, if you are, as I believe you are, that Lord Glenvarloch
whom all the world talk of--the Scotch gallant that has spent all, to a thin cloak and a light
purse--be not moved, my lord, it is so noised of you--men call you the sparrow-hawk, who will
fly at all--ay, were it in the very Park--Be not moved, my lord."

"I am ashamed, sirrah," replied Glenvarloch, "that you should have power to move me by your
insolence--but beware--and, if you indeed guess who I am, consider how long I may be able to
endure your tone of insolent familiarity."

"I crave pardon, my lord," said Hildebrod, with a sullen, yet apologetic look; "I meant no
harm in speaking my poor mind. I know not what honour there may be in being familiar with your
lordship, but I judge there is little safety, for Lowestoffe is laid up in lavender only for
having shown you the way into Alsatia; and so, what is to come of those who maintain you when
you are here, or whether they will get most honour or most trouble by doing so, I leave with
your lordship's better judgment."

"I will bring no one into trouble on my account," said Lord Glenvarloch. "I will leave Whitefriars
to-morrow. Nay, by Heaven, I will leave it this day."

"You will have more wit in your anger, I trust," said Duke Hildebrod; "listen first to what
I have to say to you, and, if honest Jack Hildebrod puts you not in the way of nicking them
all, may he never cast doublets, or dull a greenhorn again! And so, my lord, in plain words,
you must wap and win."

"Your words must be still plainer before I can understand them," said Nigel.

"What the devil--a gamester, one who deals with the devil's bones and the doctors, and not
understand Pedlar's French! Nay, then, I must speak plain English, and that's the simpleton's
tongue."

"Speak, then, sir," said Nigel; "and I pray you be brief, for I have little more time to bestow
on you."

"Well, then, my lord, to be brief, as you and the lawyers call it--I understand you have an
estate in the north, which changes masters for want of the redeeming ready.--Ay, you start,
but you cannot dance in a net before me, as I said before; and so the king runs the frowning
humour on you, and the Court vapours you the go-by; and the Prince scowls at you from under
his cap; and the favourite serves you out the puckered brow and the cold shoulder; and the
favourite's favourite--"

"To go no further, sir," interrupted Nigel, "suppose all this true-- and what follows?"

"What follows?" returned Duke Hildebrod. "Marry, this follows, that you will owe good deed,
as well as good will, to him who shall put you in the way to walk with your beaver cocked in
the presence, as an ye were Earl of Kildare; bully the courtiers; meet the Prince's blighting
look with a bold brow; confront the favourite; baffle his deputy, and- -"

"This is all well," said Nigel! "but how is it to be accomplished?"

"By making thee a Prince of Peru, my lord of the northern latitudes; propping thine old castle
with ingots,--fertilizing thy failing fortunes with gold dust--it shall but cost thee to put
thy baron's coronet for a day or so on the brows of an old Caduca here, the man's daughter
of the house, and thou art master of a mass of treasure that shall do all I have said for thee,
and--"

"What, you would have me marry this old gentlewoman here, the daughter of mine host?" said
Nigel, surprised and angry, yet unable to suppress some desire to laugh.

"Nay, my lord, I would have you marry fifty thousand good sterling pounds; for that, and better,
hath old Trapbois hoarded; and thou shall do a deed of mercy in it to the old man, who will
lose his golden smelts in some worse way--for now that he is well-nigh past his day of work,
his day of payment is like to follow."

"Truly, this is a most courteous offer," said Lord Glenvarloch; "but may I pray of your candour,
most noble duke, to tell me why you dispose of a ward of so much wealth on a stranger like
me, who may leave you to-morrow?"

"In sooth, my lord," said the Duke, "that question smacks more of the wit of Beaujeu's ordinary,
than any word I have yet heard your lordship speak, and reason it is you should be answered.
Touching my peers, it is but necessary to say, that Mistress Martha Trapbois will none of them,
whether clerical or laic. The captain hath asked her, so hath the parson, but she will none
of them--she looks higher than either, and is, to say truth, a woman of sense, and so forth,
too profound, and of spirit something too high, to put up with greasy buff or rusty prunella.
For ourselves, we need but hint that we have a consort in the land of the living, and, what
is more to purpose, Mrs. Martha knows it. So, as she will not lace her kersey hood save with
a quality binding, you, my lord, must be the man, and must carry off fifty thousand decuses,
the spoils of five thousand bullies, cutters, and spendthrifts,--always deducting from the
main sum some five thousand pounds for our princely advice and countenance, without which,
as matters stand in Alsatia, you would find it hard to win the plate."

"But has your wisdom considered, sir," replied Glenvarloch, "how this wedlock can serve me
in my present emergence?"

"As for that, my lord," said Duke Hildebrod, "if, with forty or fifty thousand pounds in your
pouch, you cannot save yourself, you will deserve to lose your head for your folly, and your
hand for being close-fisted."

"But, since your goodness has taken my matters into such serious consideration," continued
Nigel, who conceived there was no prudence in breaking with a man, who, in his way, meant him
favour rather than offence, "perhaps you may be able to tell me how my kindred will be likely
to receive such a bride as you recommend to me?"

"Touching that matter, my lord, I have always heard your countrymen knew as well as other folks,
on which side their bread was buttered. And, truly, speaking from report, I know no place where
fifty thousand pounds--fifty thousand pounds, I say--will make a woman more welcome than it
is likely to do in your ancient kingdom. And, truly, saving the slight twist in her shoulder,
Mrs. Martha Trapbois is a person of very awful and majestic appearance, and may, for aught
I know, be come of better blood than any one wots of; for old Trapbois looks not over like
to be her father, and her mother was a generous, liberal sort of a woman."

"I am afraid," answered Nigel, "that chance is rather too vague to assure her a gracious reception
into an honourable house."

"Why, then, my lord," replied Hildebrod, "I think it like she will be even with them; for I
will venture to say, she has as much ill-nature as will make her a match for your whole clan."

"That may inconvenience me a little," replied Nigel.

"Not a whit--not a whit," said the Duke, fertile in expedients; "if she should become rather
intolerable, which is not unlikely, your honourable house, which I presume to be a castle,
hath, doubtless, both turrets and dungeons, and ye may bestow your bonny bride in either the
one or the other, and then you know you will be out of hearing of her tongue, and she will
be either above or below the contempt of your friends."

"It is sagely counselled, most equitable sir," replied Nigel, "and such restraint would be
a fit meed for her folly that gave me any power over her."

"You entertain the project then, my lord?" said Duke Hildebrod.

"I must turn it in my mind for twenty-four hours," said Nigel; "and I will pray you so to order
matters that I be not further interrupted by any visitors."

"We will utter an edict to secure your privacy," said the Duke; "and you do not think," he
added, lowering his voice to a confidential whisper, "that ten thousand is too much to pay
to the Sovereign, in name of wardship?"

"Ten thousand!" said Lord Glenvarloch; "why, you said five thousand but now."

"Aha! art avised of that?" said the Duke, touching the side of his nose with his finger; "nay,
if you have marked me so closely, you are thinking on the case more nearly than I believed,
till you trapped me. Well, well, we will not quarrel about the consideration, as old Trapbois
would call it--do you win and wear the dame; it will be no hard matter with your face and figure,
and I will take care that no one interrupts you. I will have an edict from the Senate as soon
as they meet for their meridiem."

So saying, Duke Hildebrod took his leave.

CHAPTER XXIV

  This is the time--Heaven's maiden sentinel
  Hath quitted her high watch--the lesser spangles
  Are paling one by one; give me the ladder
  And the short lever--bid Anthony
  Keep with his carabine the wicket-gate;
  And do thou bare thy knife and follow me,
  For we will in and do it--darkness like this
  Is dawning of our fortunes.
                           Old Play.

When Duke Hildebrod had withdrawn, Nigel's first impulse was an irresistible feeling to laugh
at the sage adviser, who would have thus connected him with age, ugliness, and ill-temper;
but his next thought was pity for the unfortunate father and daughter, who, being the only
persons possessed of wealth in this unhappy district, seemed like a wreck on the sea-shore
of a barbarous country, only secured from plunder for the moment by the jealousy of the tribes
among whom it had been cast. Neither could he help being conscious that his own residence here
was upon conditions equally precarious, and that he was considered by the Alsatians in the
same light of a godsend on the Cornish coast, or a sickly but wealthy caravan travelling through
the wilds of Africa, and emphatically termed by the nations of despoilers through whose regions
it passes Dummalafong, which signifies a thing given to be devoured--a common prey to all men.

Nigel had already formed his own plan to extricate himself, at whatever risk, from his perilous
and degrading situation; and, in order that he might carry it into instant execution, he only
awaited the return of Lowestoffe's messenger. He expected him, however, in vain, and could
only amuse himself by looking through such parts of his baggage as had been sent to him from
his former lodgings, in order to select a small packet of the most necessary articles to take
with him, in the event of his quitting his lodgings secretly and suddenly, as speed and privacy
would, he foresaw, be particularly necessary, if he meant to obtain an interview with the king,
which was the course his spirit and his interest alike determined him to pursue.

While he was thus engaged, he found, greatly to his satisfaction, that Master Lowestoffe had
transmitted not only his rapier and poniard, but a pair of pistols, which he had used in travelling;
of a smaller and more convenient size than the large petronels, or horse pistols, which were
then in common use, as being made for wearing at the girdle or in the pockets. Next to having
stout and friendly comrades, a man is chiefly emboldened by finding himself well armed in case
of need, and Nigel, who had thought with some anxiety on the hazard of trusting his life, if
attacked, to the protection of the clumsy weapon with which Lowestoffe had equipped him, in
order to complete his disguise, felt an emotion of confidence approaching to triumph, as, drawing
his own good and well-tried rapier, he wiped it with his handkerchief, examined its point,
bent it once or twice against the ground to prove its well-known metal, and finally replaced
it in the scabbard, the more hastily, that he heard a tap at the door of his chamber, and had
no mind to be found vapouring in the apartment with his sword drawn.

It was his old host who entered, to tell him with many cringes that the price of his apartment
was to be a crown per diem; and that, according to the custom of Whitefriars, the rent was
always payable per advance, although he never scrupled to let the money lie till a week or
fortnight, or even a month, in the hands of any honourable guest like Master Grahame, always
upon some reasonable consideration for the use. Nigel got rid of the old dotard's intrusion,
by throwing down two pieces of gold, and requesting the accommodation of his present apartment
for eight days, adding, however, he did not think he should tarry so long.

The miser, with a sparkling eye and a trembling hand, clutched fast the proffered coin, and,
having balanced the pieces with exquisite pleasure on the extremity of his withered finger,
began almost instantly to show that not even the possession of gold can gratify for more than
an instant the very heart that is most eager in the pursuit of it. First, the pieces might
be light--with hasty hand he drew a small pair of scales from his bosom, and weighed them,
first together, then separately, and smiled with glee as he saw them attain the due depression
in the balance--a circumstance which might add to his profits, if it were true, as was currently
reported, that little of the gold coinage was current in Alsatia in a perfect state, and that
none ever left the Sanctuary in that condition.

Another fear then occurred to trouble the old miser's pleasure. He had been just able to comprehend
that Nigel intended to leave the Friars sooner than the arrival of the term for which he had
deposited the rent. This might imply an expectation of refunding, which, as a Scotch wag said,
of all species of funding, jumped least with the old gentleman's humour. He was beginning to
enter a hypothetical caveat on this subject, and to quote several reasons why no part of the
money once consigned as room-rent, could be repaid back on any pretence, without great hardship
to the landlord, when Nigel, growing impatient, told him that the money was his absolutely,
and without any intention on his part of resuming any of it--all he asked in return was the
liberty of enjoying in private the apartment he had paid for. Old Trapbois, who had still at
his tongue's end much of the smooth language, by which, in his time, he had hastened the ruin
of many a young spendthrift, began to launch out upon the noble and generous disposition of
his new guest, until Nigel, growing impatient, took the old gentleman by the hand, and gently,
yet irresistibly, leading him to the door of the chamber, put him out, but with such decent
and moderate exertion of his superior strength, as to render the action in no shape indecorous,
and, fastening the door, began to do that for his pistols which he had done for his favourite
sword, examining with care the flints and locks, and reviewing the state of his small provision
of ammunition.

In this operation he was a second time interrupted by a knocking at the door--he called upon
the person to enter, having no doubt that it was Lowestoffe's messenger at length arrived.
It was, however, the ungracious daughter of old Trapbois, who, muttering something about her
father's mistake, laid down upon the table one of the pieces of gold which Nigel had just given
to him, saying, that what she retained was the full rent for the term he had specified. Nigel
replied, he had paid the money, and had no desire to receive it again.

"Do as you will with it, then," replied his hostess, "for there it lies, and shall lie for
me. If you are fool enough to pay more than is reason, my father shall not be knave enough
to take it."

"But your father, mistress," said Nigel, "your father told me--"

"Oh, my father, my father," said she, interrupting him,--"my father managed these affairs while
he was able--I manage them now, and that may in the long run be as well for both of us."

She then looked on the table, and observed the weapons.

"You have arms, I see," she said; "do you know how to use them?"

"I should do so mistress," replied Nigel, "for it has been my occupation."

"You are a soldier, then?" she demanded.

"No farther as yet, than as every gentleman of my country is a soldier."

"Ay, that is your point of honour--to cut the throats of the poor--a proper gentlemanlike occupation
for those who should protect them!"

"I do not deal in cutting throats, mistress," replied Nigel; "but I carry arms to defend myself,
and my country if it needs me."

"Ay," replied Martha, "it is fairly worded; but men say you are as prompt as others in petty
brawls, where neither your safety nor your country is in hazard; and that had it not been so,
you would not have been in the Sanctuary to-day."

"Mistress," returned Nigel, "I should labour in vain to make you understand that a man's honour,
which is, or should be, dearer to him than his life, may often call on and compel us to hazard
our own lives, or those of others, on what would otherwise seem trifling contingencies."

"God's law says nought of that," said the female; "I have only read there, that thou shall
not kill. But I have neither time nor inclination to preach to you--you will find enough of
fighting here if you like it, and well if it come not to seek you when you are least prepared.
Farewell for the present--the char-woman will execute your commands for your meals."

She left the room, just as Nigel, provoked at her assuming a superior tone of judgment and
of censure, was about to be so superfluous as to enter into a dispute with an old pawnbroker's
daughter on the subject of the point of honour. He smiled at himself for the folly into which
the spirit of self-vindication had so nearly hurried him.

Lord Glenvarloch then applied to old Deborah the char-woman, by whose intermediation he was
provided with a tolerably decent dinner; and the only embarrassment which he experienced, was
from the almost forcible entry of the old dotard his landlord, who insisted upon giving his
assistance at laying the cloth. Nigel had some difficulty to prevent him from displacing his
arms and some papers which were lying on a small table at which he had been sitting; and nothing
short of a stern and positive injunction to the contrary could compel him to use another board
(though there were two in the room) for the purpose of laying the cloth.

Having at length obliged him to relinquish his purpose, he could not help observing that the
eyes of the old dotard seemed still anxiously fixed upon the small table on which lay his sword
and pistols; and that, amidst all the little duties which he seemed officiously anxious to
render to his guest, he took every opportunity of looking towards and approaching these objects
of his attention. At length, when Trapbois thought he had completely avoided the notice of
his guest, Nigel, through the observation of one of the cracked mirrors, oh which channel of
communication the old man had not calculated, beheld him actually extend his hand towards the
table in question. He thought it unnecessary to use further ceremony, but telling his landlord,
in a stern voice, that he permitted no one to touch his arms, he commanded him to leave the
apartment. The old usurer commenced a maundering sort of apology, in which all that Nigel distinctly
apprehended, was a frequent repetition of the word consideration, and which did not seem to
him to require any other answer than a reiteration of his command to him to leave the apartment,
upon pain of worse consequences.

The ancient Hebe who acted as Lord Glenvarloch's cup-bearer, took his part against the intrusion
of the still more antiquated Ganymede, and insisted on old Trapbois leaving the room instantly,
menacing him at the same time with her mistress's displeasure if he remained there any longer.
The old man seemed more under petticoat government than any other, for the threat of the char-woman
produced greater effect upon him than the more formidable displeasure of Nigel. He withdrew
grumbling and muttering, and Lord Glenvarloch heard him bar a large door at the nearer end
of the gallery, which served as a division betwixt the other parts of the extensive mansion,
and the apartment occupied by his guest, which, as the reader is aware, had its access from
the landing-place at the head of the grand staircase.

Nigel accepted the careful sound of the bolts and bars as they were severally drawn by the
trembling hand of old Trapbois, as an omen that the senior did not mean again to revisit him
in the course of the evening, and heartily rejoiced that he was at length to be left to uninterrupted
solitude.

The old woman asked if there was aught else to be done for his accommodation; and, indeed,
it had hitherto seemed as if the pleasure of serving him, or more properly the reward which
she expected, had renewed her youth and activity. Nigel desired to have candles, to have a
fire lighted in his apartment, and a few fagots placed beside it, that he might feed it from
time to time, as he began to feel the chilly effects of the damp and low situation of the house,
close as it was to the Thames. But while the old woman was absent upon his errand, he began
to think in what way he should pass the long solitary evening with which he was threatened.

His own reflections promised to Nigel little amusement, and less applause. He had considered
his own perilous situation in every light in which it could be viewed, and foresaw as little
utility as comfort in resuming the survey. To divert the current of his ideas, books were,
of course, the readiest resource; and although, like most of us, Nigel had, in his time, sauntered
through large libraries, and even spent a long time there without greatly disturbing their
learned contents, he was now in a situation where the possession of a volume, even of very
inferior merit, becomes a real treasure. The old housewife returned shortly afterwards with
fagots, and some pieces of half-burnt wax-candles, the perquisites, probably, real or usurped,
of some experienced groom of the chambers, two of which she placed in large brass candlesticks,
of different shapes and patterns, and laid the others on the table, that Nigel might renew
them from time to time as they burnt to the socket. She heard with interest Lord Glenvarloch's
request to have a book--any sort of book--to pass away the night withal, and returned for answer,
that she knew of no other books in the house than her young mistress's (as she always denominated
Mistress Martha Trapbois) Bible, which the owner would not lend; and her master's Whetstone
of Witte, being the second part of Arithmetic, by Robert Record, with the Cossike Practice
and Rule of Equation; which promising volume Nigel declined to borrow. She offered, however,
to bring him some books from Duke Hildebrod--"who sometimes, good gentleman, gave a glance
at a book when the State affairs of Alsatia left him as much leisure."

Nigfil embraced the proposal, and his unwearied Iris scuttled away on this second embassy.
She returned in a short time with a tattered quarto volume under her arm, and a bottle of sack
in her hand; for the Duke, judging that mere reading was dry work, had sent the wine by way
of sauce to help it down, not forgetting to add the price to the morning's score, which he
had already run up against the stranger in the Sanctuary.

Nigel seized on the book, and did not refuse the wine, thinking that a glass or two, as it
really proved to be of good quality, would be no bad interlude to his studies. He dismissed,
with thanks and assurance of reward, the poor old drudge who had been so zealous in his service;
trimmed his fire and candles, and placed the easiest of the old arm- chairs in a convenient
posture betwixt the fire and the table at which he had dined, and which now supported the measure
of sack and the lights; and thus accompanying his studies with such luxurious appliances as
were in his power, he began to examine the only volume with which the ducal library of Alsatia
had been able to supply him.

The contents, though of a kind generally interesting, were not well calculated to dispel the
gloom by which he was surrounded. The book was entitled "God's Revenge against Murther;" not,
as the bibliomaniacal reader may easily conjecture, the work which Reynolds published under
that imposing name, but one of a much earlier date, printed and sold by old Wolfe; and which,
could a copy now be found, would sell for much more than its weight in gold.[Footnote: Only
three copies are known to exist; one in the library at Kennaquhair, and two- -one foxed and
cropped, the other tall and in good condition--both in the possession of an eminent member
of the Roxburghe Club.--Note by CAPTAIN CLUTTERBUCK.] Nigel had soon enough of the doleful
tales which the book contains, and attempted one or two other modes of killing the evening.
He looked out at window, but the night was rainy, with gusts of wind; he tried to coax the
fire, but the fagots were green, and smoked without burning; and as he was naturally temperate,
he felt his blood somewhat heated by the canary sack which he had already drank, and had no
farther inclination to that pastime. He next attempted to compose a memorial addressed to the
king, in which he set forth his case and his grievances; but, speedily stung with the idea
that his supplication would be treated with scorn, he flung the scroll into the fire, and,
in a sort of desperation, resumed the book which he had laid aside.

Nigel became more interested in the volume at the second than at the first attempt which he
made to peruse it. The narratives, strange and shocking as they were to human feeling, possessed
yet the interest of sorcery or of fascination, which rivets the attention by its awakening
horrors. Much was told of the strange and horrible acts of blood by which men, setting nature
and humanity alike at defiance, had, for the thirst of revenge, the lust of gold, or the cravings
of irregular ambition, broken into the tabernacle of life. Yet more surprising and mysterious
tales were recounted of the mode in which such deeds of blood had come to be discovered and
revenged. Animals, irrational animals, had told the secret, and birds of the air had carried
the matter. The elements had seemed to betray the deed which had polluted them--earth had ceased
to support the murderer's steps, fire to warm his frozen limbs, water to refresh his parched
lips, air to relieve his gasping lungs. All, in short, bore evidence to the homicide's guilt.
In other circumstances, the criminal's own awakened conscience pursued and brought him to justice;
and in some narratives the grave was said to have yawned, that the ghost of the sufferer might
call for revenge.

It was now wearing late in the night, and the book was still in Nigel's hands, when the tapestry
which hung behind him flapped against the wall, and the wind produced by its motion waved the
flame of the candles by which he was reading. Nigel started and turned round, in that excited
and irritated state of mind which arose from the nature of his studies, especially at a period
when a certain degree of superstition was inculcated as a point of religious faith. It was
not without emotion that he saw the bloodless countenance, meagre form, and ghastly aspect
of old Trapbois, once more in the very act of extending his withered hand towards the table
which supported his arms. Convinced by this untimely apparition that something evil was meditated
towards him, Nigel sprung up, seized his sword, drew it, and placing it at the old man's breast,
demanded of him what he did in his apartment at so untimely an hour. Trapbois showed neither
fear nor surprise, and only answered by some imperfect expressions, intimating he would part
with his life rather than with his property; and Lord Glenvarloch, strangely embarrassed, knew
not what to think of the intruder's motives, and still less how to get rid of him. As he again
tried the means of intimidation, he was surprised by a second apparition from behind the tapestry,
in the person of the daughter of Trapbois, bearing a lamp in her hand. She also seemed to possess
her father's insensibility to danger, for, coming close to Nigel, she pushed aside impetuously
his naked sword, and even attempted to take it out of his hand.

"For shame," she said, "your sword on a man of eighty years and more!- =this the honour of
a Scottish gentleman!--give it to me to make a spindle of!"

"Stand back," said Nigel; "I mean your father no injury--but I will know what has caused him
to prowl this whole day, and even at this late hour of night, around my arms."

"Your arms!" repeated she; "alas! young man, the whole arms in the Tower of London are of little
value to him, in comparison of this miserable piece of gold which I left this morning on the
table of a young spendthrift, too careless to put what belonged to him into his own purse."

So saying, she showed the piece of gold, which, still remaining on the table, where she left
it, had been the bait that attracted old Trapbois so frequently to the spot; and which, even
in the silence of the night, had so dwelt on his imagination, that he had made use of a private
passage long disused, to enter his guest's apartment, in order to possess himself of the treasure
during his slumbers. He now exclaimed, at the highest tones of his cracked and feeble voice--

"It is mine--it is mine!--he gave it to me for a consideration--I will die ere I part with
my property!"

"It is indeed his own, mistress," said Nigel, "and I do entreat you to restore it to the person
on whom I have bestowed it, and let me have my apartment in quiet."

"I will account with you for it, then,"--said the maiden, reluctantly giving to her father
the morsel of Mammon, on which he darted as if his bony fingers had been the talons of a hawk
seizing its prey; and then making a contented muttering and mumbling, like an old dog after
he has been fed, and just when he is wheeling himself thrice round for the purpose of lying
down, he followed his daughter behind the tapestry, through a little sliding-door, which was
perceived when the hangings were drawn apart.

"This shall be properly fastened to-morrow," said the daughter to Nigel, speaking in such a
tone that her father, deaf, and engrossed by his acquisition, could not hear her; "to-night
I will continue to watch him closely.--I wish you good repose."

These few words, pronounced in a tone of more civility than she had yet made use of towards
her lodger, contained a wish which was not to be accomplished, although her guest, presently
after her departure, retired to bed.

There was a slight fever in Nigel's blood, occasioned by the various events of the evening,
which put him, as the phrase is, beside his rest. Perplexing and painful thoughts rolled on
his mind like a troubled stream, and the more he laboured to lull himself to slumber, the farther
he seemed from attaining his object. He tried all the resources common in such cases; kept
counting from one to a thousand, until his head was giddy--he watched the embers of the wood
fire till his eyes were dazzled--he listened to the dull moaning of the wind, the swinging
and creaking of signs which projected from the houses, and the baying of here and there a homeless
dog, till his very ear was weary.

Suddenly, however, amid this monotony, came a sound which startled him at once. It was a female
shriek. He sat up in his bed to listen, then remembered he was in Alsatia, where brawls of
every sort were current among the unruly inhabitants. But another scream, and another, and
another, succeeded so close, that he was certain, though the noise was remote and sounded stifled,
it must be in the same house with himself.

Nigel jumped up hastily, put on a part of his clothes, seized his sword and pistols, and ran
to the door of his chamber. Here he plainly heard the screams redoubled, and, as he thought,
the sounds came from the usurer's apartment. All access to the gallery was effectually excluded
by the intermediate door, which the brave young lord shook with eager, but vain impatience.
But the secret passage occurred suddenly to his recollection. He hastened back to his room,
and succeeded with some difficulty in lighting a candle, powerfully agitated by hearing the
cries repeated, yet still more afraid lest they should sink into silence.

He rushed along the narrow and winding entrance, guided by the noise, which now burst more
wildly on his ear; and, while he descended a narrow staircase which terminated the passage,
he heard the stifled voices of men, encouraging, as it seemed, each other. "D--n her, strike
her down--silence her--beat her brains out!"--while the voice of his hostess, though now almost
exhausted, was repeating the cry of "murder," and "help." At the bottom of the staircase was
a small door, which gave way before Nigel as he precipitated himself upon the scene of action,--a
cocked pistol in one hand, a candle in the other, and his naked sword under his arm.

Two ruffians had, with great difficulty, overpowered, or, rather, were on the point of overpowering,
the daughter of Trapbois, whose resistance appeared to have been most desperate, for the floor
was covered with fragments of her clothes, and handfuls of her hair. It appeared that her life
was about to be the price of her defence, for one villain had drawn a long clasp-knife, when
they were surprised by the entrance of Nigel, who, as they turned towards him, shot the fellow
with the knife dead on the spot, and when the other advanced to him, hurled the candlestick
at his head, and then attacked him with his sword. It was dark, save some pale moonlight from
the window; and the ruffian, after firing a pistol without effect, and fighting a traverse
or two with his sword, lost heart, made for the window, leaped over it, and escaped. Nigel
fired his remaining pistol after him at a venture, and then called for light.

"There is light in the kitchen," answered Martha Trapbois, with more
presence of mind than could have been expected. "Stay, you know not
the way; I will fetch it myself.--Oh! my father--my poor father!--I
knew it would come to this--and all along of the accursed gold!--They
have murdered him!"
                                   Old Play.

It was a ghastly scene which opened, upon Martha Trapbois's return with a light. Her own haggard
and austere features were exaggerated by all the desperation of grief, fear, and passion--but
the latter was predominant. On the floor lay the body of the robber, who had expired without
a groan, while his blood, flowing plentifully, had crimsoned all around. Another body lay also
there, on which the unfortunate woman precipitated herself in agony, for it was that of her
unhappy father. In the next moment she started up, and exclaiming--"There may be life yet!"
strove to raise the body. Nigel went to her assistance, but not without a glance at the open
window; which Martha, as acute as if undisturbed either by passion or terror, failed not to
interpret justly.

"Fear not," she cried, "fear not; they are base cowards, to whom courage is as much unknown
as mercy. If I had had weapons, I could have defended myself against them without assistance
or protection.-- Oh! my poor father! protection comes too late for this cold and stiff corpse.--He
is dead--dead!"

While she spoke, they were attempting to raise the dead body of the old miser; but it was evident,
even from the feeling of the inactive weight and rigid joints, that life had forsaken her station.
Nigel looked for a wound, but saw none. The daughter of the deceased, with more presence of
mind than a daughter could at the time have been supposed capable of exerting, discovered the
instrument of his murder- -a sort of scarf, which had been drawn so tight round his throat,
as to stifle his cries for assistance, in the first instance, and afterwards to extinguish life.

She undid the fatal noose; and, laying the old man's body in the arms of Lord Glenvarloch,
she ran for water, for spirits, for essences, in the vain hope that life might be only suspended.
That hope proved indeed vain. She chafed his temples, raised his head, loosened his nightgown,
(for it seemed as if he had arisen from bed upon hearing the entrance of the villains,) and,
finally, opened, with difficulty, his fixed and closely-clenched hands, from one of which dropped
a key, from the other the very piece of gold about which the unhappy man had been a little
before so anxious, and which probably, in the impaired state of his mental faculties, he was
disposed to defend with as desperate energy as if its amount had been necessary to his actual
existence.

"It is in vain--it is in vain," said the daughter, desisting from her fruitless attempts to
recall the spirit which had been effectually dislodged, for the neck had been twisted by the
violence of the murderers; "It is in vain--he is murdered--I always knew it would be thus;
and now I witness it!"

She then snatched up the key and the piece of money, but it was only to dash them again on
the floor, as she exclaimed, "Accursed be ye both, for you are the causes of this deed!"

Nigel would have spoken--would have reminded her, that measures should be instantly taken for
the pursuit of the murderer who had escaped, as well as for her own security against his return;
but she interrupted him sharply.

"Be silent," she said, "be silent. Think you, the thoughts of my own heart are not enough to
distract me, and with such a sight as this before me? I say, be silent," she said again, and
in a yet sterner tone--"Can a daughter listen, and her father's murdered corpse lying on her
knees?"

Lord Glenvarloch, however overpowered by the energy of her grief, felt not the less the embarrassment
of his own situation. He had discharged both his pistols--the robber might return--he had probably
other assistants besides the man who had fallen, and it seemed to him, indeed, as if he had
heard a muttering beneath the windows. He explained hastily to his companion the necessity
of procuring ammunition.

"You are right," she said, somewhat contemptuously, "and have ventured already more than ever
I expected of man. Go, and shift for yourself, since that is your purpose--leave me to my fate."

Without stopping for needless expostulation, Nigel hastened to his own room through the secret
passage, furnished himself with the ammunition he sought for, and returned with the same celerity;
wondering himself at the accuracy with which he achieved, in the dark, all the meanderings
of the passage which he had traversed only once, and that in a moment of such violent agitation.

He found, on his return, the unfortunate woman standing like a statue by the body of her father,
which she had laid straight on the floor, having covered the face with the skirt of his gown.
She testified neither surprise nor pleasure at Nigel's return, but said to him calmly--"My
moan is made--my sorrow--all the sorrow at least that man shall ever have noting of, is gone
past; but I will have justice, and the base villain who murdered this poor defenceless old
man, when he had not, by the course of nature, a twelvemonth's life in him, shall not cumber
the earth long after him. Stranger, whom heaven has sent to forward the revenge reserved for
this action, go to Hildebrod's--there they are awake all night in their revels--bid him come
hither--he is bound by his duty, and dare not, and shall not, refuse his assistance, which
he knows well I can reward. Why do ye tarry?--go instantly." "I would," said Nigel, "but I
am fearful of leaving you alone; the villains may return, and--"

"True, most true," answered Martha, "he may return; and, though I care little for his murdering
me, he may possess himself of what has most tempted him. Keep this key and this piece of gold;
they are both of importance--defend your life if assailed, and if you kill the villain I will
make you rich. I go myself to call for aid."

Nigel would have remonstrated with her, but she had departed, and in a moment he heard the
house-door clank behind her. For an instant he thought of following her; but upon recollection
that the distance was but short betwixt the tavern of Hildebrod and the house of Trapbois,
he concluded that she knew it better than he--incurred little danger in passing it, and that
he would do well in the meanwhile to remain on the watch as she recommended.

It was no pleasant situation for one unused to such scenes to remain in the apartment with
two dead bodies, recently those of living and breathing men, who had both, within the space
of less than half an hour, suffered violent death; one of them by the hand of the assassin,
the other, whose blood still continued to flow from the wound in his throat, and to flood all
around him, by the spectator's own deed of violence, though of justice. He turned his face
from those wretched relics of mortality with a feeling of disgust, mingled with superstition;
and he found, when he had done so, that the consciousness of the presence of these ghastly
objects, though unseen by him, rendered him more uncomfortable than even when he had his eyes
fixed upon, and reflected by, the cold, staring, lifeless eyeballs of the deceased. Fancy also
played her usual sport with him. He now thought he heard the well-worn damask nightgown of
the deceased usurer rustle; anon, that he heard the slaughtered bravo draw up his leg, the
boot scratching the floor as if he was about to rise; and again he deemed he heard the footsteps
and the whisper of the returned ruffian under the window from which he had lately escaped.
To face the last and most real danger, and to parry the terrors which the other class of feelings
were like to impress upon him, Nigel went to the window, and was much cheered to observe the
light of several torches illuminating the street, and followed, as the murmur of voices denoted,
by a number of persons, armed, it would seem, with firelocks and halberds, and attendant on
Hildebrod, who (not in his fantastic office of duke, but in that which he really possessed
of bailiff of the liberty and sanctuary of Whitefriars) was on his way to inquire into the
crime and its circumstances.

It was a strange and melancholy contrast to see these debauchees, disturbed in the very depth
of their midnight revel, on their arrival at such a scene as this. They stared on each other,
and on the bloody work before them, with lack-lustre eyes; staggered with uncertain steps over
boards slippery with blood; their noisy brawling voices sunk into stammering whispers; and,
with spirits quelled by what they saw, while their brains were still stupefied by the liquor
which they had drunk, they seemed like men walking in their sleep.

Old Hildebrod was an exception to the general condition. That seasoned cask, however full,
was at all times capable of motion, when there occurred a motive sufficiently strong to set
him a-rolling. He seemed much shocked at what he beheld, and his proceedings, in consequence,
had more in them of regularity and propriety, than he might have been supposed capable of exhibiting
upon any occasion whatever. The daughter was first examined, and stated, with wonderful accuracy
and distinctness, the manner in which she had been alarmed with a noise of struggling and violence
in her father's apartment, and that the more readily, because she was watching him on account
of some alarm concerning his health. On her entrance, she had seen her father sinking under
the strength of two men, upon whom she rushed with all the fury she was capable of. As their
faces were blackened, and their figures disguised, she could not pretend, in the hurry of a
moment so dreadfully agitating, to distinguish either of them as persons whom she had seen
before. She remembered little more except the firing of shots, until she found herself alone
with her guest, and saw that the ruffians had escaped. Lord Glenvarloch told his story as we
have given it to the reader. The direct evidence thus received, Hildebrod examined the premises.
He found that the villains had made their entrance by the window out of which the survivor
had made his escape; yet it seemed singular that they should have done so, as it was secured
with strong iron bars, which old Trapbois was in the habit of shutting with his own hand at
nightfall. He minuted down with great accuracy, the state of every thing in the apartment,
and examined carefully the features of the slain robber. He was dressed like a seaman of the
lowest order, but his face was known to none present. Hildebrod next sent for an Alsatian surgeon,
whose vices, undoing what his skill might have done for him, had consigned him to the wretched
practice of this place. He made him examine the dead bodies, and make a proper declaration
of the manner in which the sufferers seemed to have come by their end. The circumstances of
the sash did not escape the learned judge, and having listened to all that could be heard or
conjectured on the subject, and collected all particulars of evidence which appeared to bear
on the bloody transaction, he commanded the door of the apartment to be locked until next morning;
and carrying, the unfortunate daughter of the murdered man into the kitchen, where there was
no one in presence but Lord Glenvarloch, he asked her gravely, whether she suspected no one
in particular of having committed the deed.

"Do you suspect no one?" answered Martha, looking fixedly on him.

"Perhaps, I may, mistress; but it is my part to ask questions, yours to answer them. That's
the rule of the game."

"Then I suspect him who wore yonder sash. Do not you know whom I mean?"

"Why, if you call on me for honours, I must needs say I have seen Captain Peppercull have one
of such a fashion, and he was not a man to change his suits often."

"Send out, then," said Martha, "and have him apprehended."

"If it is he, he will be far by this time; but I will communicate with the higher powers,"
answered the judge.

"You would have him escape," resumed she, fixing her eyes on him sternly.

"By cock and pie," replied Hildebrod, "did it depend on me, the murdering cut-throat should
hang as high as ever Haman did--but let me take my time. He has friends among us, that you
wot well; and all that should assist me are as drunk as fiddlers."

"I will have revenge--I will have it," repeated she; "and take heed you trifle not with me."

"Trifle! I would sooner trifle with a she-bear the minute after they had baited her. I tell
you, mistress, be but patient, and we will have him. I know all his haunts, and he cannot forbear
them long; and I will have trap-doors open for him. You cannot want justice, mistress, for
you have the means to get it."

"They who help me in my revenge," said Martha, "shall share those means."

"Enough said," replied Hildebrod; "and now I would have you go to my house, and get something
hot--you will be but dreary here by yourself."

"I will send for the old char-woman," replied Martha, "and we have the stranger gentleman,
besides."

"Umph, umph--the stranger gentleman!" said Hildebrod to Nigel, whom he drew a little apart.
"I fancy the captain has made the stranger gentleman's fortune when he was making a bold dash
for his own. I can tell your honour--I must not say lordship--that I think my having chanced
to give the greasy buff-and-iron scoundrel some hint of what I recommended to you to-day, has
put him on this rough game. The better for you--you will get the cash without the father-in-law.--You
will keep conditions, I trust?"

"I wish you had said nothing to any one of a scheme so absurd," said Nigel.

"Absurd!--Why, think you she will not have thee? Take her with the tear in her eye, man--take
her with the tear in her eye. Let me hear from you to-morrow. Good-night, good-night--a nod
is as good as a wink. I must to my business of sealing and locking up. By the way, this horrid
work has put all out of my head.--Here is a fellow from Mr. Lowestoffe has been asking to see
you. As he said his business was express, the Senate only made him drink a couple of flagons,
and he was just coming to beat up your quarters when this breeze blew up.-- Ahey, friend! there
is Master Nigel Grahame."

A young man, dressed in a green plush jerkin, with a badge on the sleeve, and having the appearance
of a waterman, approached and took Nigel aside, while Duke Hildebrod went from place to place
to exercise his authority, and to see the windows fastened, and the doors of the apartment
locked up. The news communicated by Lowestoffe's messenger were not the most pleasant. They
were intimated in a courteous whisper to Nigel, to the following effect:--That Master Lowestoffe
prayed him to consult his safety by instantly leaving Whitefriars, for that a warrant from
the Lord Chief-Justice had been issued out for apprehending him, and would be put in force
to-morrow, by the assistance of a party of musketeers, a force which the Alsatians neither
would nor dared to resist.

"And so, squire," said the aquatic emissary, "my wherry is to wait you at the Temple Stairs
yonder, at five this morning, and, if you would give the blood-hounds the slip, why, you may."

"Why did not Master Lowestoffe write to me?" said Nigel.

"Alas! the good gentleman lies up in lavender for it himself, and has as little to do with
pen and ink as if he were a parson."

"Did he send any token to me?" said Nigel.

"Token!--ay, marry did he--token enough, an I have not forgot it," said the fellow; then, giving
a hoist to the waistband of his breeches, he said,--" Ay, I have it--you were to believe me,
because your name was written with an O, for Grahame. Ay, that was it, I think.--Well, shall
we meet in two hours, when tide turns, and go down the river like a twelve-oared barge?"

"Where is the king just now, knowest thou?" answered Lord Glenvarloch.

"The king! why, he went down to Greenwich yesterday by water, like a noble sovereign as he
is, who will always float where he can. He was to have hunted this week, but that purpose is
broken, they say; and the Prince, and the Duke, and all of them at Greenwich, are as merry
as minnows."

"Well," replied Nigel, "I will be ready to go at five; do thou come hither to carry my baggage."

"Ay, ay, master," replied the fellow, and left the house mixing himself with the disorderly
attendants of Duke Hildebrod, who were now retiring. That potentate entreated Nigel to make
fast the doors behind him, and, pointing to the female who sat by the expiring fire with her
limbs outstretched, like one whom the hand of Death had already arrested, he whispered, "Mind
your hits, and mind your bargain, or I will cut your bow-string for you before you can draw it."

Feeling deeply the ineffable brutality which could recommend the prosecuting such views over
a wretch in such a condition, Lord Glenvarloch yet commanded his temper so far as to receive
the advice in silence, and attend to the former part of it, by barring the door carefully behind
Duke Hildebrod and his suite, with the tacit hope that he should never again see or hear of
them. He then returned to the kitchen, in which the unhappy woman remained, her hands still
clenched, her eyes fixed, and her limbs extended, like those of a person in a trance. Much
moved by her situation, and with the prospect which lay before her, he endeavoured to awaken
her to existence by every means in his power, and at length apparently succeeded in dispelling
her stupor, and attracting her attention. He then explained to her that he was in the act of
leaving Whitefriars in a few hours-- that his future destination was uncertain, but that he
desired anxiously to know whether he could contribute to her protection by apprizing any friend
of her situation, or otherwise. With some difficulty she seemed to comprehend his meaning,
and thanked him with her usual short ungracious manner. "He might mean well," she said, "but
he ought to know that the miserable had no friends."

Nigel said, "He would not willingly be importunate, but, as he was about to leave the Friars--"
She interrupted him--

"You are about to leave the Friars? I will go with you."

"You go with me!" exclaimed Lord Glenvarloch.

"Yes," she said, "I will persuade my father to leave this murdering den." But, as she spoke,
the more perfect recollection of what had passed crowded on her mind. She hid her face in her
hands, and burst out into a dreadful fit of sobs, moans, and lamentations, which terminated
in hysterics, violent in proportion to the uncommon strength of her body and mind.

Lord Glenvarloch, shocked, confused, and inexperienced, was about to leave the house in quest
of medical, or at least female assistance; but the patient, when the paroxysm had somewhat
spent its force, held him fast by the sleeve with one hand, covering her face with the other,
while a copious flood of tears came to relieve the emotions of grief by which she had been
so violently agitated.

"Do not leave me," she said--"do not leave me, and call no one. I have never been in this way
before, and would not now," she said, sitting upright, and wiping her eyes with her apron,--"would
not now--but that--but that he loved me. if he loved nothing else that was human- -To die so,
and by such hands!"

And again the unhappy woman gave way to a paroxysm of sorrow, mingling her tears with sobbing,
wailing, and all the abandonment of female grief, when at its utmost height. At length, she
gradually recovered the austerity of her natural composure, and maintained it as if by a forcible
exertion of resolution, repelling, as she spoke, the repeated returns of the hysterical affection,
by such an effort as that by which epileptic patients are known to suspend the recurrence of
their fits. Yet her mind, however resolved, could not so absolutely overcome the affection
of her nerves, but that she was agitated by strong fits of trembling, which, for a minute or
two at a time, shook her whole frame in a manner frightful to witness. Nigel forgot his own
situation, and, indeed, every thing else, in the interest inspired by the unhappy woman before
him--an interest which affected a proud spirit the more deeply, that she herself, with correspondent
highness of mind, seemed determined to owe as little as possible either to the humanity or
the pity of others.

"I am not wont to be in this way," she said,--"but--but--Nature will have power over the frail
beings it has made. Over you, sir, I have some right; for, without you, I had not survived
this awful night. I wish your aid had been either earlier or later--but you have saved my life,
and you are bound to assist in making it endurable to me."

"If you will show me how it is possible," answered Nigel.

"You are going hence, you say, instantly--carry me with you," said the unhappy woman. "By my
own efforts, I shall never escape from this wilderness of guilt and misery."

"Alas! what can I do for you?" replied Nigel. "My own way, and I must not deviate from it,
leads me, in all probability, to a dungeon. I might, indeed, transport you from hence with
me, if you could afterwards bestow yourself with any friend."

"Friend!" she exclaimed--"I have no friend--they have long since discarded us. A spectre arising
from the dead were more welcome than I should be at the doors of those who have disclaimed
us; and, if they were willing to restore their friendship to me now, I would despise it, because
they withdrew it from him--from him"--(here she underwent strong but suppressed agitation,
and then added firmly)--"from him who lies yonder.--I have no friend." Here she paused; and
then suddenly, as if recollecting herself, added, "I have no friend, but I have that will purchase
many--I have that which will purchase both friends and avengers.--It is well thought of; I
must not leave it for a prey to cheats and ruffians.--Stranger, you must return to yonder room.
Pass through it boldly to his--that is, to the sleeping apartment; push the bedstead aside;
beneath each of the posts is a brass plate, as if to support the weight, but it is that upon
the left, nearest to the wall, which must serve your turn--press the corner of the plate, and
it will spring up and show a keyhole, which this key will open. You will then lift a concealed
trap-door, and in a cavity of the floor you will discover a small chest. Bring it hither; it
shall accompany our journey, and it will be hard if the contents cannot purchase me a place
of refuge."

"But the door communicating with the kitchen has been locked by these people," said Nigel.

"True, I had forgot; they had their reasons for that, doubtless," answered she. "But the secret
passage from your apartment is open, and you may go that way."

Lord Glenvarloch took the key, and, as he lighted a lamp to show him the way, she read in his
countenance some unwillingness to the task imposed.

"You fear?" said she--"there is no cause; the murderer and his victim are both at rest. Take
courage, I will go with you myself--you cannot know the trick of the spring, and the chest
will be too heavy for you."

"No fear, no fear," answered Lord Glenvarloch, ashamed of the construction she put upon a momentary
hesitation, arising from a dislike to look upon what is horrible, often connected with those
high-wrought minds which are the last to fear what is merely dangerous--"I will do your errand
as you desire; but for you, you must not--cannot go yonder."

"I can--I will," she said. "I am composed. You shall see that I am so." She took from the table
a piece of unfinished sewing-work, and, with steadiness and composure, passed a silken thread
into the eye of a fine needle.--"Could I have done that," she said, with a smile yet more ghastly
than her previous look of fixed despair, "had not my heart and hand been both steady?"

She then led the way rapidly up stairs to Nigel's chamber, and proceeded through the secret
passage with the same haste, as if she had feared her resolution might have failed her ere
her purpose was executed. At the bottom of the stairs she paused a moment, before entering
the fatal apartment, then hurried through with a rapid step to the sleeping chamber beyond,
followed closely by Lord Glenvarloch, whose reluctance to approach the scene of butchery was
altogether lost in the anxiety which he felt on account of the survivor of the tragedy.

Her first action was to pull aside the curtains of her father's bed. The bed-clothes were thrown
aside in confusion, doubtless in the action of his starting from sleep to oppose the entrance
of the villains into the next apartment. The hard mattress scarcely showed the slight pressure
where the emaciated body of the old miser had been deposited. His daughter sank beside the
bed, clasped her hands, and prayed to heaven, in a short and affectionate manner, for support
in her affliction, and for vengeance on the villains who had made her fatherless. A low-muttered
and still more brief petition recommended to Heaven the soul of the sufferer, and invoked pardon
for his sins, in virtue of the great Christian atonement.

This duty of piety performed, she signed to Nigel to aid her; and, having pushed aside the
heavy bedstead, they saw the brass plate which Martha had described. She pressed the spring,
and, at once, the plate starting up, showed the keyhole, and a large iron ring used in lifting
the trap-door, which, when raised, displayed the strong box, or small chest, she had mentioned,
and which proved indeed so very weighty, that it might perhaps have been scarcely possible
for Nigel, though a very strong man, to have raised it without assistance.

Having replaced everything as they had found it, Nigel, with such help as his companion was
able to afford, assumed his load, and made a shift to carry it into the next apartment, where
lay the miserable owner, insensible to sounds and circumstances, which, if any thing could
have broken his long last slumber, would certainly have done so. His unfortunate daughter went
up to his body, and had even the courage to remove the sheet which had been decently disposed
over it. She put her hand on the heart, but there was no throb--held a feather to the lips,
but there was no motion--then kissed with deep reverence the starting veins of the pale forehead,
and then the emaciated hand.

"I would you could hear me," she said,--"Father! I would you could hear me swear, that, if
I now save what you most valued on earth, it is only to assist me in obtaining vengeance for
your death."

She replaced the covering, and, without a tear, a sigh, or an additional word of any kind,
renewed her efforts, until they conveyed the strong-box betwixt them into Lord Glenvarloch's
sleeping apartment. "It must pass," she said, "as part of your baggage. I will be in readiness
so soon as the waterman calls."

She retired; and Lord Glenvarloch, who saw the hour of their departure approach, tore down
a part of the old hanging to make a covering, which he corded upon the trunk, lest the peculiarity
of its shape, and the care with which it was banded and counterbanded with bars of steel, might
afford suspicions respecting the treasure which it contained. Having taken this measure of
precaution, he changed the rascally disguise, which he had assumed on entering Whitefriars,
into a suit becoming his quality, and then, unable to sleep, though exhausted with the events
of the night, he threw himself on his bed to await the summons of the waterman.

CHAPTER XXVI

  Give us good voyage, gentle stream--we stun not
  Thy sober ear with sounds of revelry;
  Wake not the slumbering echoes of thy banks
  With voice of flute and horn--we do but seek
  On the broad pathway of thy swelling bosom
  To glide in silent safety.
                             The Double Bridal.

Grey, or rather yellow light, was beginning to twinkle through the fogs of Whitefriars, when
a low tap at the door of the unhappy miser announced to Lord Glenvarloch the summons of the
boatman. He found at the door the man whom he had seen the night before, with a companion.

"Come, come, master, let us get afloat," said one of them, in a rough impressive whisper, "time
and tide wait for no man." "They shall not wait for me," said Lord Glenvarloch; "but I have
some things to carry with me."

"Ay, ay--no man will take a pair of oars now, Jack, unless he means to load the wherry like
a six-horse waggon. When they don't want to shift the whole kitt, they take a sculler, and
be d--d to them. Come, come, where be your rattle-traps?"

One of the men was soon sufficiently loaded, in his own estimation at least, with Lord Glenvarloch's
mail and its accompaniments, with which burden he began to trudge towards the Temple Stairs.
His comrade, who seemed the principal, began to handle the trunk which contained the miser's
treasure, but pitched it down again in an instant, declaring, with a great oath, that it was
as reasonable to expect a man to carry Paul's on his back. The daughter of Trapbois, who had
by this time joined them, muffled up in a long dark hood and mantle, exclaimed to Lord Glenvarloch--"Let
them leave it if they will, let them leave it all; let us but escape from this horrible place."

We have mentioned elsewhere, that Nigel was a very athletic young man, and, impelled by a strong
feeling of compassion and indignation, he showed his bodily strength singularly on this occasion,
by seizing on the ponderous strong-box, and, by means of the rope he had cast around it, throwing
it on his shoulders, and marching resolutely forward under a weight, which would have sunk
to the earth three young gallants, at the least, of our degenerate day. The waterman followed
him in amazement, calling out, "Why, master, master, you might as well gie me t'other end on't!"
and anon offered his assistance to support it in some degree behind, which after the first
minute or two Nigel was fain to accept. His strength was almost exhausted when he reached the
wherry, which was lying at the Temple Stairs according to appointment; and, when he pitched
the trunk into it, the weight sank the bow of the boat so low in the water as well-nigh to
overset it.

"We shall have as hard a fare of it," said the waterman to his companion, "as if we were ferrying
over an honest bankrupt with all his secreted goods--Ho, ho! good woman, what, are you stepping
in for?--our gunwale lies deep enough in the water without live lumber to boot."

"This person comes with me," said Lord Glenvarloch; "she is for the present under my protection."

"Come, come, master," rejoined the fellow, "that is out of my commission. You must not double
my freight on me--she may go by land-- and, as for protection, her face will protect her from
Berwick to the Land's End."

"You will not except at my doubling the loading, if I double the fare?" said Nigel, determined
on no account to relinquish the protection of this unhappy woman, for which he had already
devised some sort of plan, likely now to be baffled by the characteristic rudeness of the Thames
watermen.

"Ay, by G--, but I will except, though, "said the fellow with the green plush jacket: "I will
overload my wherry neither for love nor money--I love my boat as well as my wife, and a thought
better."

"Nay, nay, comrade," said his mate, "that is speaking no true water language. For double fare
we are bound to row a witch in her eggshell if she bid us; and so pull away, Jack, and let
us have no more prating."

They got into the stream-way accordingly, and, although heavily laden, began to move down the
river with reasonable speed.

The lighter vessels which passed, overtook, or crossed them, in their course, failed not to
assail them with their boisterous raillery, which was then called water-wit; for which the
extreme plainness of Mistress Martha's features, contrasted with the youth, handsome figure,
and good looks of Nigel, furnished the principal topics; while the circumstance of the boat
being somewhat overloaded, did not escape their notice. They were hailed successively, as a
grocer's wife upon a party of pleasure with her eldest apprentice--as an old woman carrying
her grandson to school--and as a young strapping Irishman, conveying an ancient maiden to Dr.
Rigmarole's, at Redriffe, who buckles beggars for a tester and a dram of Geneva. All this abuse
was retorted in a similar strain of humour by Greenjacket and his companion, who maintained
the war of wit with the same alacrity with which they were assailed.

Meanwhile, Lord Glenvarloch asked his desolate companion if she had thought on any place where
she could remain in safety with her property. She confessed, in more detail than formerly,
that her father's character had left her no friends; and that, from the time he had betaken
himself to Whitefriars, to escape certain legal consequences of his eager pursuit of gain,
she had lived a life of total seclusion; not associating with the society which the place afforded,
and, by her residence there, as well as her father's parsimony, effectually cut off from all
other company. What she now wished, was, in the first place, to obtain the shelter of a decent
lodging, and the countenance of honest people, however low in life, until she should obtain
legal advice as to the mode of obtaining justice on her father's murderer. She had no hesitation
to charge the guilt upon Colepepper, (commonly called Peppercull,) whom she knew to be as capable
of any act of treacherous cruelty, as he was cowardly, where actual manhood was required. He
had been strongly suspected of two robberies before, one of which was coupled with an atrocious
murder. He had, she intimated, made pretensions to her hand as the easiest and safest way of
obtaining possession of her father's wealth; and, on her refusing his addresses, if they could
be termed so, in the most positive terms, he had thrown out such obscure hints of vengeance,
as, joined with some imperfect assaults upon the house, had kept her in frequent alarm, both
on her father's account and her own.

Nigel, but that his feeling of respectful delicacy to the unfortunate woman forebade him to
do so, could here have communicated a circumstance corroborative of her suspicions, which had
already occurred to his own mind. He recollected the hint that old Hildebrod threw forth on
the preceding night, that some communication betwixt himself and Colepepper had hastened the
catastrophe. As this communication related to the plan which Hildebrod had been pleased to
form, of promoting a marriage betwixt Nigel himself and the rich heiress of Trapbois, the fear
of losing an opportunity not to be regained, together with the mean malignity of a low-bred
ruffian, disappointed in a favourite scheme, was most likely to instigate the bravo to the
deed of violence which had been committed. The reflection that his own name was in some degree
implicated with the causes of this horrid tragedy, doubled Lord Glenvarloch's anxiety in behalf
of the victim whom he had rescued, while at the same time he formed the tacit resolution, that,
so soon as his own affairs were put upon some footing, he would contribute all in his power
towards the investigation of this bloody affair.

After ascertaining from his companion that she could form no better plan of her own, he recommended
to her to take up her lodging for the time, at the house of his old landlord, Christie the
ship-chandler, at Paul's Wharf, describing the decency and honesty of that worthy couple, and
expressing his hopes that they would receive her into their own house, or recommend her at
least to that of some person for whom they would be responsible, until she should have time
to enter upon other arrangements for herself.

The poor woman received advice so grateful to her in her desolate condition, with an expression
of thanks, brief indeed, but deeper than any thing had yet extracted from the austerity of
her natural disposition.

Lord Glenvarloch then proceeded to inform Martha, that certain reasons, connected with his
personal safety, called him immediately to Greenwich, and, therefore, it would not be in his
power to accompany her to Christie's house, which he would otherwise have done with pleasure:
but, tearing a leaf from his tablet, he wrote on it a few lines, addressed to his landlord,
as a man of honesty and humanity, in which he described the bearer as a person who stood in
singular necessity of temporary protection and good advice, for which her circumstances enabled
her to make ample acknowledgment. He therefore requested John Christie, as his old and good
friend, to afford her the shelter of his roof for a short time; or, if that might not be consistent
with his convenience, at least to direct her to a proper lodging-and, finally, he imposed on
him the additional, and somewhat more difficult commission, to recommend her to the counsel
and services of an honest, at least a reputable and skilful attorney, for the transacting some
law business of importance. The note he subscribed with his real name, and, delivering it to
his protegee, who received it with another deeply uttered "I thank you," which spoke the sterling
feelings of her gratitude better than a thousand combined phrases, he commanded the watermen
to pull in for Paul's Wharf, which they were now approaching.

"We have not time," said Green-jacket; "we cannot be stopping every instant."

But, upon Nigel insisting upon his commands being obeyed, and adding, that it was for the purpose
of putting the lady ashore, the waterman declared that he would rather have her room than her
company, and put the wherry alongside the wharf accordingly. Here two of the porters, who ply
in such places, were easily induced to undertake the charge of the ponderous strong-box, and
at the same time to guide the owner to the well-known mansion of John Christie, with whom all
who lived in that neighbourhood were perfectly acquainted.

The boat, much lightened of its load, went down the Thames at a rate increased in proportion.
But we must forbear to pursue her in her voyage for a few minutes, since we have previously
to mention the issue of Lord Glenvarloch's recommendation.

Mistress Martha Trapbois reached the shop in perfect safety, and was about to enter it, when
a sickening sense of the uncertainty of her situation, and of the singularly painful task of
telling her story, came over her so strongly, that she paused a moment at the very threshold
of her proposed place of refuge, to think in what manner she could best second the recommendation
of the friend whom Providence had raised up to her. Had she possessed that knowledge of the
world, from which her habits of life had completely excluded her, she might have known that
the large sum of money which she brought along with her, might, judiciously managed, have been
a passport to her into the mansions of nobles, and the palaces of princes. But, however conscious
of its general power, which assumes so many forms and complexions, she was so inexperienced
as to be most unnecessarily afraid that the means by which the wealth had been acquired, might
exclude its inheretrix from shelter even in the house of a humble tradesman.

While she thus delayed, a more reasonable cause for hesitation arose, in a considerable noise
and altercation within the house, which grew louder and louder as the disputants issued forth
upon the street or lane before the door.

The first who entered upon the scene was a tall raw-boned hard- favoured man, who stalked out
of the shop hastily, with a gait like that of a Spaniard in a passion, who, disdaining to add
speed to his locomotion by running, only condescends, in the utmost extremity of his angry
haste, to add length to his stride. He faced about, so soon as he was out of the house, upon
his pursuer, a decent-looking, elderly, plain tradesman--no other than John Christie himself,
the owner of the shop and tenement, by whom he seemed to be followed, and who was in a state
of agitation more than is usually expressed by such a person.

"I'll hear no more on't," said the personage who first appeared on the scene.--"Sir, I will
hear no more on it. Besides being a most false and impudent figment, as I can testify--it is
Scandaalum Magnaatum, sir--Scandaalum Magnaatum" he reiterated with a broad accentuation of
the first vowel, well known in the colleges of Edinburgh and Glasgow, which we can only express
in print by doubling the said first of letters and of vowels, and which would have cheered
the cockles of the reigning monarch had he been within hearing,--as he was a severer stickler
for what he deemed the genuine pronunciation of the Roman tongue, than for any of the royal
prerogatives, for which he was at times disposed to insist so strenuously in his speeches to
Parliament.

"I care not an ounce of rotten cheese," said John Christie in reply, "what you call it--but
it is TRUE; and I am a free Englishman, and have right to speak the truth in my own concerns;
and your master is little better than a villain, and you no more than a swaggering coxcomb,
whose head I will presently break, as I have known it well broken before on lighter occasion."

And, so saying, he flourished the paring-shovel which usually made clean the steps of his little
shop, and which he had caught up as the readiest weapon of working his foeman damage, and advanced
therewith upon him. The cautious Scot (for such our readers must have already pronounced him,
from his language and pedantry) drew back as the enraged ship-chandler approached, but in a
surly manner, and bearing his hand on his sword-hilt rather in the act of one who was losing
habitual forbearance and caution of deportment, than as alarmed by the attack of an antagonist
inferior to himself in youth, strength, and weapons.

"Bide back," he said, "Maister Christie--I say bide back, and consult your safety, man. I have
evited striking you in your ain house under muckle provocation, because I am ignorant how the
laws here may pronounce respecting burglary and hamesucken, and such matters; and, besides,
I would not willingly hurt ye, man, e'en on the causeway, that is free to us baith, because
I mind your kindness of lang syne, and partly consider ye as a poor deceived creature. But
deil d--n me, sir, and I am not wont to swear, but if you touch my Scotch shouther with that
shule of yours, I will make six inches of my Andrew Ferrara deevilish intimate with your guts,
neighbour."

And therewithal, though still retreating from the brandished shovel, he made one-third of the
basket-hilled broadsword which he wore, visible from the sheath. The wrath of John Christie
was abated, either by his natural temperance of disposition, or perhaps in part by the glimmer
of cold steel, which flashed on him from his adversary's last action.

"I would do well to cry clubs on thee, and have thee ducked at the wharf," he said, grounding
his shovel, however, at the same time, "for a paltry swaggerer, that would draw thy bit of
iron there on an honest citizen before his own door; but get thee gone, and reckon on a salt
eel for thy supper, if thou shouldst ever come near my house again. I wish it had been at the
bottom of the Thames when it first gave the use of its roof to smooth-faced, oily-tongued,
double-minded Scots thieves!"

"It's an ill bird that fouls its own nest," replied his adversary, not perhaps the less bold
that he saw matters were taking the turn of a pacific debate; "and a pity it is that a kindly
Scot should ever have married in foreign parts, and given life to a purse-proud, pudding- headed,
fat-gutted, lean-brained Southron, e'en such as you, Maister Christie. But fare ye weel--fare
ye weel, for ever and a day; and, if you quarrel wi' a Scot again, man, say as mickle ill o'
himsell as ye like, but say nane of his patron or of his countrymen, or it will scarce be your
flat cap that will keep your lang lugs from the sharp abridgement of a Highland whinger, man."

"And, if you continue your insolence to me before my own door, were it but two minutes longer,"
retorted John Christie, "I will call the constable, and make your Scottish ankles acquainted
with an English pair of stocks!"

So saying, he turned to retire into his shop with some show of victory; for his enemy, whatever
might be his innate valour, manifested no desire to drive matters to extremity--conscious,
perhaps, that whatever advantage he might gain in single combat with Jonn Christie, would be
more than overbalanced by incurring an affair with the constituted authorities of Old England,
not at that time apt to be particularly favourable to their new fellow-subjects, in the various
successive broils which were then constantly taking place between the individuals of two proud
nations, who still retained a stronger sense of their national animosity during centuries,
than of their late union for a few years under the government of the same prince.

Mrs. Martha Trapbois had dwelt too long in Alsatia, to be either surprised or terrified at
the altercation she had witnessed. Indeed, she only wondered that the debate did not end in
some of those acts of violence by which they were usually terminated in the Sanctuary. As the
disputants separated from each other, she, who had no idea that the cause of the quarrel was
more deeply rooted than in the daily scenes of the same nature which she had heard of or witnessed,
did not hesitate to stop Master Christie in his return to his shop, and present to him the
letter which Lord Glenvarloch had given to her. Had she been better acquainted with life and
its business, she would certainly have waited for a more temperate moment; and she had reason
to repent of her precipitation, when, without saying a single word, or taking the trouble to
gather more of the information contained in the letter than was expressed in the subscription,
the incensed ship chandler threw it down on the ground, trampled it in high disdain, and, without
addressing a single word to the bearer, except, indeed, something much more like a hearty curse
than was perfectly consistent with his own grave appearance, he retired into his shop, and
shut the hatch-door.

It was with the most inexpressible anguish that the desolate, friendless and unhappy female,
thus beheld her sole hope of succour, countenance, and protection, vanish at once, without
being able to conceive a reason; for, to do her justice, the idea that her friend, whom she
knew by the name of Nigel Grahame, had imposed on her, a solution which might readily have
occurred to many in her situation, never once entered her mind. Although it was not her temper
easily to bend her mind to entreaty, she could not help exclaiming after the ireful and retreating
ship-chandler,--"Good Master, hear me but a moment! for mercy's sake, for honesty's sake!"

"Mercy and honesty from him, mistress!" said the Scot, who, though he essayed not to interrupt
the retreat of his antagonist, still kept stout possession of the field of action,--"ye might
as weel expect brandy from bean-stalks, or milk from a craig of blue whunstane. The man is
mad, bom mad, to boot."

"I must have mistaken the person to whom the letter was addressed, then;" and, as she spoke,
Mistress Martha Trapbois was in the act of stooping to lift the paper which had been so uncourteously
received. Her companion, with natural civility, anticipated her purpose; but, what was not
quite so much in etiquette, he took a sly glance at it as he was about to hand it to her, and
his eye having caught the subscription, he said, with surprise, "Glenvarloch--Nigel Olifaunt
of Glenvarloch! Do you know the Lord Glenvarloch, mistress?"

"I know not of whom you speak," said Mrs. Martha, peevishly. "I had that paper from one Master
Nigel Gram."

"Nigel Grahame!--umph.-O, ay, very true--I had forgot," said the Scotsman. "A tall, well-set
young man, about my height; bright blue eyes like a hawk's; a pleasant speech, something leaning
to the kindly north-country accentuation, but not much, in respect of his having been resident
abroad?"

"All this is true--and what of it all?" said the daughter of the miser.

"Hair of my complexion?"

"Yours is red," replied she.

"I pray you peace," said the Scotsman. "I was going to say--of my complexion, but with a deeper
shade of the chestnut. Weel, mistress, if I have guessed the man aright, he is one with whom
I am, and have been, intimate and familiar,--nay,--I may truly say I have done him much service
in my time, and may live to do him more. I had indeed a sincere good-will for him, and I doubt
he has been much at a loss since we parted; but the fault is not mine. While he spoke thus,
he read the contents of the letter, without waiting for permission, and then continued,--"And
so this is all that you are wanting, my dove? nothing more than safe and honourable lodging,
and sustenance, upon your own charges?"

"Nothing more," said she. "If you are a man and a Christian, you will help me to what I need
so much."

"A man I am," replied the formal Caledonian, "e'en sic as ye see me; and a Christian I may
call myself, though unworthy, and though I have heard little pure doctrine since I came hither--a'
polluted with men's devices--ahem! Weel, and if ye be an honest woman," (here he peeped under
her muffler,) "as an honest woman ye seem likely to be--though, let me tell you, they are a
kind of cattle not so rife in the streets of this city as I would desire them--I was almost
strangled with my own band by twa rampallians, wha wanted yestreen, nae farther gane, to harle
me into a change-house--however, if ye be a decent honest woman," (here he took another peep
at features certainly bearing no beauty which could infer suspicion,) "as decent and honest
ye seem to be, why, I will advise you to a decent house, where you will get douce, quiet entertainment,
on reasonable terms, and the occasional benefit of my own counsel and direction--that is, from
time to time, as my other avocations may permit."

"May I venture to accept of such an offer from a stranger?" said Martha, with natural hesitation.

"Troth, I see nothing to hinder you, mistress," replied the bonny Scot; "ye can but see the
place, and do after as ye think best. Besides, we are nae such strangers, neither; for I know
your friend, and you, it's like, know mine, whilk knowledge, on either hand, is a medium of
communication between us, even as the middle of the string connecteth its twa ends or extremities.
But I will enlarge on this farther as we pass along, gin ye list to bid your twa lazy loons
of porters there lift up your little kist between them, whilk ae true Scotsman might carry
under his arm. Let me tell you, mistress, ye will soon make a toom pock-end of it in Lon'on,
if you hire twa knaves to do the work of ane."

So saying, he led the way, followed by Mistress Martha Trapbois, whose singular destiny, though
it had heaped her with wealth, had left her, for the moment, no wiser counsellor, or more distinguished
protector, than honest Richie Moniplies, a discarded serving-man.

CHAPTER XXVII

  This way lie safety and a sure retreat;
  Yonder lie danger, shame, and punishment
  Most welcome danger then--Nay, let me say,
  Though spoke with swelling heart--welcome e'en shame
  And welcome punishment--for, call me guilty,
  I do but pay the tax that's due to justice;
  And call me guiltless, then that punishment
  Is shame to those alone who do inflict it,
                              The Tribunal.

We left Lord Glenvarloch, to whose fortunes our story chiefly attaches itself, gliding swiftly
down the Thames. He was not, as the reader may have observed, very affable in his disposition,
or apt to enter into conversation with those into whose company he was casually thrown. This
was, indeed, an error in his conduct, arising less from pride, though of that feeling we do
not pretend to exculpate him, than from a sort of bashful reluctance to mix in the conversation
of those with whom he was not familiar. It is a fault only to be cured by experience and knowledge
of the world, which soon teaches every sensible and acute person the important lesson, that
amusement, and, what is of more consequence, that information and increase of knowledge, are
to be derived from the conversation of every individual whatever, with whom he is thrown into
a natural train of communication. For ourselves, we can assure the reader--and perhaps if we
have ever been able to afford him amusement, it is owing in a great degree to this cause--that
we never found ourselves in company with the stupidest of all possible companions in a post-chaise,
or with the most arrant cumber-corner that ever occupied a place in the mail-coach, without
finding, that, in the course of our conversation with him, we had some ideas suggested to us,
either grave orgay, or some information communicated in the course of our journey, which we
should have regretted not to have learned, and which we should be sorry to have immediately
forgotten. But Nigel was somewhat immured within the Bastile of his rank, as some philosopher
(Tom Paine, we think) has happily enough expressed that sort of shyness which men of dignified
situations are apt to be beset with, rather from not exactly knowing how far, or with whom,
they ought to be familiar, than from any real touch of aristocratic pride. Besides, the immediate
pressure of our adventurer's own affairs was such as exclusively to engross his attention.

He sat, therefore, wrapt in his cloak, in the stern of the boat, with his mind entirely bent
upon the probable issue of the interview with his Sovereign, which it was his purpose to seek;
for which abstraction of mind he may be fully justified, although perhaps, by questioning the
watermen who were transporting him down the river, he might have discovered matters of high
concernment to him.

At any rate, Nigel remained silent till the wherry approached the town of Greenwich, when he
commanded the men to put in for the nearest landing-place, as it was his purpose to go ashore
there, and dismiss them from further attendance.

"That is not possible," said the fellow with the green jacket, who, as we have already said,
seemed to take on himself the charge of pilotage. "We must go," he continued, "to Gravesend,
where a Scottish vessel, which dropped down the river last tide for the very purpose, lies
with her anchor a-peak, waiting to carry you to your own dear northern country. Your hammock
is slung, and all is ready for you, and you talk of going ashore at Greenwich, as seriously
as if such a thing were possible!"

"I see no impossibility," said Nigel, "in your landing me where I desire to be landed; but
very little possibility of your carrying me anywhere I am not desirous of going."

"Why, whether do you manage the wherry, or we, master?" asked Green- jacket, in a tone betwixt
jest and earnest; "I take it she will go the way we row her."

"Ay," retorted Nigel, "but I take it you will row her on the course I direct you, otherwise
your chance of payment is but a poor one."

"Suppose we are content to risk that," said the undaunted waterman, "I wish to know how you,
who talk so big--I mean no offence, master, but you do talk big--would help yourself in such
a case?"

"Simply thus," answered Lord Glenvarloch--"You saw me, an hour since, bring down to the boat
a trunk that neither of you could lift. If we are to contest the destination of our voyage,
the same strength which tossed that chest into the wherry, will suffice to fling you out of
it; wherefore, before we begin the scuffle, I pray you to remember, that, whither I would go,
there I will oblige you to carry me."

"Gramercy for your kindness," said Green-jacket; "and now mark me in return. My comrade and
I are two men--and you, were you as stout as George-a-Green, can pass but for one; and two,
you will allow, are more than a match for one. You mistake in your reckoning, my friend."

"It is you who mistake," answered Nigel, who began to grow warm; "it is I who am three to two,
sirrah--I carry two men's lives at my girdle."

So saying, he opened his cloak and showed the two pistols which he had disposed at his girdle.
Green-jacket was unmoved at the display.

"I have got," said he, "a pair of barkers that will match yours," and he showed that he also
was armed with pistols; "so you may begin as soon as you list."

"Then," said Lord Glenvarloch, drawing forth and cocking a pistol, "the sooner the better.
Take notice, I hold you as a ruffian, who have declared you will put force on my person; and
that I will shoot you through the head if you do not instantly put me ashore at Greenwich."

The other waterman, alarmed at Nigel's gesture, lay upon his oar; but Green-jacket replied
coolly--"Look you, master, I should not care a tester to venture a life with you on this matter;
but the truth is, I am employed to do you good, and not to do you harm."

"By whom are you employed?" said the Lord Glenvarloch; "or who dare concern themselves in me,
or my affairs, without my authority?"

"As to that," answered the waterman, in the same tone of indifference, "I shall not show my
commission. For myself, I care not, as I said, whether you land at Greenwich to get yourself
hanged, or go down to get aboard the Royal Thistle, to make your escape to your own country;
you will be equally out of my reach either way. But it is fair to put the choice before you."

"My choice is made," said Nigel. "I have told you thrice already it is my pleasure to be landed
at Greenwich."

"Write it on a piece of paper," said the waterman, "that such is your positive will; I must
have something to show to my employers, that the transgression of their orders lies with yourself,
not with me."

"I choose to hold this trinket in my hand for the present," said Nigel, showing his pistol,
"and will write you the acquittance when I go ashore."

"I would not go ashore with you for a hundred pieces," said the waterman. "111 luck has ever
attended you, except in small gaming; do me fair justice, and give me the testimony I desire.
If you are afraid of foul play while you write it, you may hold my pistols, if you will." He
offered the weapons to Nigel accordingly, who, while they were under his control, and all possibility
of his being taken at disadvantage was excluded, no longer hesitated to give the waterman an
acknowledgment, in the following terms:--

"Jack in the Green, with his mate, belonging to the wherry called the Jolly Raven, have done
their duty faithfully by me, landing me at Greenwich by my express command; and being themselves
willing and desirous to carry me on board the Royal Thistle, presently lying at Gravesend."
Having finished this acknowledgment, which he signed with the letters, N. O. G. as indicating
his name and title, he again requested to know of the waterman, to whom he delivered it, the
name of his employers.

"Sir," replied Jack in the Green, "I have respected your secret, do not you seek to pry into
mine. It would do you no good to know for whom I am taking this present trouble; and, to be
brief, you shall not know it--and, if you will fight in the quarrel, as you said even now,
the sooner we begin the better. Only this you may be cock-sure of, that we designed you no
harm, and that, if you fall into any, it will be of your own wilful seeking." As he spoke,
they approached the landing-place, where Nigel instantly jumped ashore. The waterman placed
his small mail-trunk on the stairs, observing that there were plenty of spare hands about,
to carry it where he would.

"We part friends, I hope, my lads," said the young nobleman, offering at the same time a piece
of money more than double the usual fare, to the boatmen.

"We part as we met," answered Green-jacket; "and, for your money, I am paid sufficiently with
this bit of paper. Only, if you owe me any love for the cast I have given you, I pray you not
to dive so deep into the pockets of the next apprentice that you find fool enough to play the
cavalier.--And you, you greedy swine," said he to his companion, who still had a longing eye
fixed on the money which Nigel continued to offer, "push off, or, if I take a stretcher in
hand, I'll break the knave's pate of thee." The fellow pushed off, as he was commanded, but
still could not help muttering, "This was entirely out of waterman's rules."

Glenvarloch, though without the devotion of the "injured Thales" of the moralist, to the memory
of that great princess, had now attained

"The hallow'd soil which gave Eliza birth,"

whose halls were now less respectably occupied by her successor. It was not, as has been well
shown by a late author, that James was void either of parts or of good intentions; and his
predecessor was at least as arbitrary in effect as he was in theory. But, while Elizabeth possessed
a sternness of masculine sense and determination which rendered even her weaknesses, some of
which were in themselves sufficiently ridiculous, in a certain degree respectable, James, on
the other hand, was so utterly devoid of "firm resolve," so well called by the Scottish bard,

"The stalk of carle-hemp in man,"

that even his virtues and his good meaning became laughable, from the whimsical uncertainty
of his conduct; so that the wisest things he ever said, and the best actions he ever did, were
often touched with a strain of the ludicrous and fidgety character of the man. Accordingly,
though at different periods of his reign he contrived to acquire with his people a certain
degree of temporary popularity, it never long outlived the occasion which produced it; so true
it is, that the mass of mankind will respect a monarch stained with actual guilt, more than
one whose foibles render him only ridiculous.

To return from this digression, Lord Glenvarloch soon received, as Green-jacket had assured
him, the offer of an idle bargeman to transport his baggage where he listed; but that where
was a question of momentary doubt. At length, recollecting the necessity that his hair and
beard should be properly arranged before he attempted to enter the royal presence, and desirous,
at the same time, of obtaining some information of the motions of the Sovereign and of the
Court, he desired to be guided to the next barber's shop, which we have already mentioned as
the place where news of every kind circled and centred. He was speedily shown the way to such
an emporium of intelligence, and soon found he was likely to hear all he desired to know, and
much more, while his head was subjected to the art of a nimble tonsor, the glibness of whose
tongue kept pace with the nimbleness of his fingers while he ran on, without stint or stop,
in the following excursive manner:--

"The Court here, master?--yes, master--much to the advantage of trade- -good custom stirring.
His Majesty loves Greenwich--hunts every morning in the Park--all decent persons admitted that
have the entries of the Palace--no rabble--frightened the king's horse with their hallooing,
the uncombed slaves.--Yes, sir, the beard more peaked? Yes, master, so it is worn. I know the
last cut--dress several of the courtiers--one valet-of-the-chamber, two pages of the body,
the clerk of the kitchen, three running footmen, two dog-boys, and an honourable Scottish knight,
Sir Munko Malgrowler."

"Malagrowther, I suppose?" said Nigel, thrusting in his conjectural emendation, with infinite
difficulty, betwixt two clauses of the barber's text.

"Yes, sir--Malcrowder, sir, as you say, sir--hard names the Scots have, sir, for an English
mouth. Sir Munko is a handsome person, sir-- perhaps you know him--bating the loss of his fingers,
and the lameness of his leg, and the length of his chin. Sir, it takes me one minute, twelve
seconds, more time to trim that chin of his, than any chin that I know in the town of Greenwich,
sir. But he is a very comely gentleman, for all that; and a pleasant--a very pleasant gentleman,
sir--and a good-humoured, saving that he is so deaf he can never hear good of any one, and
so wise, that he can never believe it; but he is a very good-natured gentleman for all that,
except when one speaks too low, or when a hair turns awry.--Did I graze you, sir? We shall
put it to rights in a moment, with one drop of styptic--my styptic, or rather my wife's, sir--She
makes the water herself. One drop of the styptic, sir, and a bit of black taffeta patch, just
big enough to be the saddle to a flea, sir--Yes, sir, rather improves than otherwise. The Prince
had a patch the other day, and so had the Duke: and, if you will believe me, there are seventeen
yards three quarters of black taffeta already cut into patches for the courtiers."

"But Sir Mungo Malagrowther?" again interjected Nigel, with difficulty.

"Ay, ay, sir--Sir Munko, as you say; a pleasant, good-humoured gentleman as ever--To be spoken
with, did you say? O ay, easily to be spoken withal, that is, as easily as his infirmity will
permit. He will presently, unless some one hath asked him forth to breakfast, be taking his
bone of broiled beef at my neighbour Ned Kilderkin's yonder, removed from over the way. Ned
keeps an eating-house, sir, famous for pork-griskins; but Sir Munko cannot abide pork, no more
than the King's most Sacred Majesty,[Footnote: The Scots, till within the last generation,
disliked swine's flesh as an article of food as much as the Highlanders do at present. It was
remarked as extraordinary rapacity, when the Border depredators condescended to make prey of
the accursed race, whom the fiend made his habitation. Ben Jonson, in drawing James's character,
says, he loved "no part of a swine."] nor my Lord Duke of Lennox, nor Lord Dalgarno,--nay,
I am sure, sir, if I touched you this time, it was your fault, not mine.-- But a single drop
of the styptic, another little patch that would make a doublet for a flea, just under the left
moustache; it will become you when you smile, sir, as well as a dimple; and if you would salute
your fair mistress--but I beg pardon, you are a grave gentleman, very grave to be so young.--Hope
I have given no offence; it is my duty to entertain customers--my duty, sir, and my pleasure--Sir
Munko Malcrowther?--yes, sir, I dare say he is at this moment in Ned's eating-house, for few
folks ask him out, now Lord Huntinglen is gone to London. You will get touched again--yes,
sir--there you shall find him with his can of single ale, stirred with a sprig of rosemary,
for he never drinks strong potations, sir, unless to oblige Lord Huntinglen--take heed, sir--or
any other person who asks him forth to breakfast--but single beer he always drinks at Ned's,
with his broiled bone of beef or mutton--or, it may be, lamb at the season--but not pork, though
Ned is famous for his griskins. But the Scots never eat pork--strange that! some folk think
they are a sort of Jews. There is a resemblance, sir,--Do you not think so? Then they call
our most gracious Sovereign the Second Solomon, and Solomon, you know, was King of the Jews;
so the thing bears a face, you see. I believe, sir, you will find yourself trimmed now to your
content. I will be judged by the fair mistress of your affections. Crave pardon--no offence,
I trust. Pray, consult the glass--one touch of the crisping tongs, to reduce this straggler.--Thank
your munificence, sir--hope your custom while you stay in Greenwich. Would you have a tune
on that ghittern, to put your temper in concord for the day?--Twang, twang--twang, twang, dillo.
Something out of tune, sir--too many hands to touch it-- we cannot keep these things like artists.
Let me help you with your cloak, sir--yes, sir--You would not play yourself, sir, would you?--
Way to Sir Munko's eating-house?--Yes, sir; but it is Ned's eating- house, not Sir Munko's.--The
knight, to be sure, eats there, and makes it his eating-house in some sense, sir--ha, ha! Yonder
it is, removed from over the way, new white-washed posts, and red lattice--fat man in his doublet
at the door--Ned himself, sir--worth a thousand pounds, they say--better singeing pigs' faces
than trimming courtiers--but ours is the less mechanical vocation.--Farewell, sir; hope your
custom. "So saying, he at length permitted Nigel to depart, whose ears, so long tormented with
continued babble, tingled when it had ceased, as if a bell had been rung close to them for
the same space of time.

Upon his arrival at the eating-house, where he proposed to meet with Sir Mungo Malagrowther,
from whom, in despair of better advice, he trusted to receive some information as to the best
mode of introducing himself into the royal presence, Lord Glenvarloch found, in the host with
whom he communed, the consequential taciturnity of an Englishman well to pass in the world.
Ned Kilderkin spoke as a banker writes, only touching the needful. Being asked if Sir Mungo
Malagrowther was there? he replied, No. Being interrogated whether he was expected? he said,
Yes. And being again required to say when he was expected, he answered, Presently. As Lord
Glenvarloch next inquired, whether he himself could have any breakfast? the landlord wasted
not even a syllable in reply, but, ushering him into a neat room where there were several tables,
he placed one of them before an armchair, and beckoning Lord Glenvarloch to take possession,
he set before him, in a very few minutes, a substantial repast of roast-beef, together with
a foaming tankard, to which refreshment the keen air of the river disposed him, notwithstanding
his mental embarrassments, to do much honour.

While Nigel was thus engaged in discussing his commons, but raising his head at the same time
whenever he heard the door of the apartment open, eagerly desiring the arrival of Sir Mungo
Malagrowther, (an event which had seldom been expected by any one with so much anxious interest,)
a personage, as it seemed, of at least equal importance with the knight, entered into the apartment,
and began to hold earnest colloquy with the publican, who thought proper to carry on the conference
on his side unbonneted. This important gentleman's occupation might be guessed from his dress.
A milk-white jerkin, and hose of white kersey; a white apron twisted around his body in the
manner of a sash, in which, instead of a war-like dagger, was stuck a long-bladed knife, hilted
with buck's-horn; a white nightcap on his head, under which his hair was neatly tucked, sufficiently
pourtrayed him as one of those priests of Comus whom the vulgar call cooks; and the air with
which he rated the publican for having neglected to send some provisions to the Palace, showed
that he ministered to royalty itself.

"This will never answer," he said, "Master Kilderkin--the king twice asked for sweetbreads,
and fricasseed coxcombs, which are a favourite dish of his most Sacred Majesty, and they were
not to be had, because Master Kilderkin had not supplied them to the clerk of the kitchen,
as by bargain bound." Here Kilderkin made some apology, brief, according to his own nature,
and muttered in a lowly tone after the fashion of all who find themselves in a scrape. His
superior replied, in a lofty strain of voice, "Do not tell me of the carrier and his wain,
and of the hen-coops coming from Norfolk with the poultry; a loyal man would have sent an express--he
would have gone upon his stumps, like Widdrington. What if the king had lost his appetite,
Master Kilderkin? What if his most Sacred Majesty had lost his dinner? O, Master Kilderkin,
if you had but the just sense of the dignity of our profession, which is told of by the witty
African slave, for so the king's most excellent Majesty designates him, Publius Terentius,
Tanguam in specula--in patinas inspicerejubeo."

"You are learned, Master Linklater," replied the English publican, compelling, as it were with
difficulty, his mouth to utter three or four words consecutively.

"A poor smatterer," said Mr. Linklater; "but it would be a shame to us, who are his most excellent
Majesty's countrymen, not in some sort to have cherished those arts wherewith he is so deeply
embued--Regis ad exemplar, Master Kilderkin, totus componitur orbis--which is as much as to
say, as the king quotes the cook learns. In brief, Master Kilderkin, having had the luck to
be bred where humanities may be had at the matter of an English five groats by the quarter,
I, like others, have acquired--ahem-hem!--" Here, the speaker's eye having fallen upon Lord
Glenvarloch, he suddenly stopped in his learned harangue, with such symptoms of embarrassment
as induced Ned Kilderkin to stretch his taciturnity so far as not only to ask him what he ailed,
but whether he would take any thing.

"Ail nothing," replied the learned rival of the philosophical Syrus; "Nothing--and yet I do
feel a little giddy. I could taste a glass of your dame's aqua mirabilis."

"I will fetch it," said Ned, giving a nod; and his back was no sooner turned, than the cook
walked near the table where Lord Glenvarloch was seated, and regarding him with a look of significance,
where more was meant than met the ear, said,--"You are a stranger in Greenwich, sir. I advise
you to take the opportunity to step into the Park--the western wicket was ajar when I came
hither; I think it will be locked presently, so you had better make the best of your way--that
is, if you have any curiosity. The venison are coming into season just now, sir, and there
is a pleasure in looking at a hart of grease. I always think when they are bounding so blithely
past, what a pleasure it would be, to broach their plump haunches on a spit, and to embattle
their breasts in a noble fortification of puff-paste, with plenty of black pepper."

He said no more, as Kilderkin re-entered with the cordial, but edged off from Nigel without
waiting any reply, only repeating the same look of intelligence with which he had accosted him.

Nothing makes men's wits so alert as personal danger. Nigel took the first opportunity which
his host's attention to the yeoman of the royal kitchen permitted, to discharge his reckoning,
and readily obtained a direction to the wicket in question. He found it upon the latch, as
he had been taught to expect; and perceived that it admitted him to a narrow footpath, which
traversed a close and tangled thicket, designed for the cover of the does and the young fawns.
Here he conjectured it would be proper to wait; nor had he been stationary above five minutes,
when the cook, scalded as much with heat of motion as ever he had been by his huge fire-place,
arrived almost breathless, and with his pass-key hastily locked the wicket behind him.

Ere Lord Glenvarloch had time to speculate upon this action, the man approached with anxiety,
and said--"Good lord, my Lord Glenvarloch!-- why will you endanger yourself thus?"

"You know me then, my friend?" said Nigel.

"Not much of that, my lord--but I know your honour's noble house well.--My name is Laurie Linklater,
my lord."

"Linklater!" repeated Nigel. "I should recollect--'

"Under your lordship's favour," he continued, "I was 'prentice, my lord, to old Mungo Moniplies,
the flesher at the wanton West-Port of Edinburgh, which I wish I saw again before I died. And,
your honour's noble father having taken Richie Moniplies into his house to wait on your lordship,
there was a sort of connexion, your lordship sees."

"Ah!" said Lord Glenvarloch, "I had almost forgot your name, but not your kind purpose. You
tried to put Richie in the way of presenting a supplication to his Majesty?"

"Most true, my lord," replied the king's cook. "I had like to have come by mischief in the
job; for Richie, who was always wilful, 'wadna be guided by me,' as the sang says. But nobody
amongst these brave English cooks can kittle up his Majesty's most sacred palate with our own
gusty Scottish dishes. So I e'en betook myself to my craft, and concocted a mess of friar's
chicken for the soup, and a savoury hachis, that made the whole cabal coup the crans; and,
instead of disgrace, I came by preferment. I am one of the clerks of the kitchen now, make
me thankful--with a finger in the purveyor's office, and may get my whole hand in by and by."

"I am truly glad," said Nigel, "to hear that you have not suffered on my account,--still more
so at your good fortune."

"You bear a kind heart, my lord," said Linklater, "and do not forget poor people; and, troth,
I see not why they should be forgotten, since the king's errand may sometimes fall in the cadger's
gate. I have followed your lordship in the street, just to look at such a stately shoot of
the old oak-tree; and my heart jumped into my throat, when I saw you sitting openly in the
eating-house yonder, and knew there was such danger to your person."

"What! there are warrants against me, then?" said Nigel.

"It is even true, my lord; and there are those who are willing to blacken you as much as they
can.--God forgive them, that would sacrifice an honourable house for their own base ends!"

"Amen," said Nigel.

"For, say your lordship may have been a little wild, like other young gentlemen--"

"We have little time to talk of it, my friend," said Nigel. "The point in question is, how
am I to get speech of the king?"

"The king, my lord!" said Linklater in astonishment; "why, will not that be rushing wilfully
into danger?--scalding yourself, as I may say, with your own ladle?"

"My good friend," answered Nigel, "my experience of the Court, and my knowledge of the circumstances
in which I stand, tell me, that the manliest and most direct road is, in my case, the surest
and the safest. The king has both a head to apprehend what is just, and a heart to do what
is kind."

"It is e'en true, my lord, and so we, his old servants, know," added Linklater; "but, woe's
me, if you knew how many folks make it their daily and nightly purpose to set his head against
his heart, and his heart against his head--to make him do hard things because they are called
just, and unjust things because they are represented as kind. Woe's me! it is with his Sacred
Majesty, and the favourites who work upon him, even according to the homely proverb that men
taunt my calling with,--'God sends good meat, but the devil sends cooks.'"

"It signifies not talking of it, my good friend," said Nigel, "I must take my risk, my honour
peremptorily demands it. They may maim me, or beggar me, but they shall not say I fled from
my accusers. My peers shall hear my vindication."

"Your peers?" exclaimed the cook--"Alack-a-day, my lord, we are not in Scotland, where the
nobles can bang it out bravely, were it even with the king himself, now and then. This mess
must be cooked in the Star- Chamber, and that is an oven seven times heated, my lord;--and
yet, if you are determined to see the king, I will not say but you may find some favour, for
he likes well any thing that is appealed directly to his own wisdom, and sometimes, in the
like cases, I have known him stick by his own opinion, which is always a fair one. Only mind,
if you will forgive me, my lord--mind to spice high with Latin; a curn or two of Greek would
not be amiss; and, if you can bring in any thing about the judgment of Solomon, in the original
Hebrew, and season with a merry jest or so, the dish will be the more palatable.--Truly, I
think, that, besides my skill in art, I owe much to the stripes of the Rector of the High School,
who imprinted on my mind that cooking scene in the Heautontimorumenos." "Leaving that aside,
my friend," said Lord Glenvarloch, "can you inform me which way I shall most readily get to
the sight and speech of the king?"

"To the sight of him readily enough," said Linklater; "he is galloping about these alleys,
to see them strike the hart, to get him an appetite for a nooning--and that reminds me I should
be in the kitchen. To the speech of the king you will not come so easily, unless you could
either meet him alone, which rarely chances, or wait for him among the crowd that go to see
him alight. And now, farewell, my lord, and God speed!--if I could do more for you, I would
offer it."

"You have done enough, perhaps, to endanger yourself," said Lord Glenvarloch. "I pray you to
be gone, and leave me to my fate."

The honest cook lingered, but a nearer burst of the horns apprized him that there was no time
to lose; and, acquainting Nigel that he would leave the postern-door on the latch to secure
his retreat in that direction, he bade God bless him, and farewell.

In the kindness of this humble countryman, flowing partly from national partiality, partly
from a sense of long-remembered benefits, which had been scarce thought on by those who had
bestowed them, Lord Glenvarloch thought he saw the last touch of sympathy which he was to receive
in this cold and courtly region, and felt that he must now be sufficient to himself, or be
utterly lost.

He traversed more than one alley, guided by the sounds of the chase, and met several of the
inferior attendants upon the king's sport, who regarded him only as one of the spectators who
were sometimes permitted to enter the Park by the concurrence of the officers about the Court.
Still there was no appearance of James, or any of his principal courtiers, and Nigel began
to think whether, at the risk of incurring disgrace similar to that which had attended the
rash exploit of Richie Moniplies, he should not repair to the Palace-gate, in order to address
the king on his return, when Fortune presented him the opportunity of doing so, in her own way.

He was in one of those long walks by which the Park was traversed, when he heard, first a distant
rustling, then the rapid approach of hoofs shaking the firm earth on which he stood; then a
distant halloo, warned by which he stood up by the side of the avenue, leaving free room for
the passage of the chase. The stag, reeling, covered with foam, and blackened with sweat, his
nostrils extended as he gasped for breath, made a shift to come up as far as where Nigel stood,
and, without turning to bay, was there pulled down by two tall greyhounds of the breed still
used by the hardy deer-stalkers of the Scottish Highlands, but which has been long unknown
in England. One dog struck at the buck's throat, another dashed his sharp nose and fangs, I
might almost say, into the animal's bowels. It would have been natural for Lord Glenvarloch,
himself persecuted as if by hunters, to have thought upon the occasion like the melancholy
Jacques; but habit is a strange matter, and I fear that his feelings on the occasion were rather
those of the practised huntsman than of the moralist. He had no time, however, to indulge them,
for mark what befell.

A single horseman followed the chase, upon a steed so thoroughly subjected to the rein, that
it obeyed the touch of the bridle as if it had been a mechanical impulse operating on the nicest
piece of machinery; so that, seated deep in his demipique saddle, and so trussed up there as
to make falling almost impossible, the rider, without either fear or hesitation, might increase
or diminish the speed at which he rode, which, even on the most animating occasions of the
chase, seldom exceeded three-fourths of a gallop, the horse keeping his haunches under him,
and never stretching forward beyond the managed pace of the academy. The security with which
he chose to prosecute even this favourite, and, in the ordinary case, somewhat dangerous amusement,
as well as the rest of his equipage, marked King James. No attendant was within sight; indeed,
it was often a nice strain of flattery to permit the Sovereign to suppose he had outridden
and distanced all the rest of the chase.

"Weel dune, Bash--weel dune, Battie!" he exclaimed as he came up. "By the honour of a king,
ye are a credit to the Braes of Balwhither!-- Haud my horse, man," he called out to Nigel,
without stopping to see to whom he had addressed himself--"Haud my naig, and help me doun out
o' the saddle--deil ding your saul, sirrah, canna ye mak haste before these lazy smaiks come
up?--haud the rein easy--dinna let him swerve-- now, haud the stirrup--that will do, man, and
now we are on terra firma." So saying, without casting an eye on his assistant, gentle King
Jamie, unsheathing the short, sharp hanger, (couteau de chasse,) which was the only thing approaching
to a sword that he could willingly endure the sight of, drew the blade with great satisfaction
across the throat of the buck, and put an end at once to its struggles and its agonies.

Lord Glenvarloch, who knew well the silvan duty which the occasion demanded, hung the bridle
of the king's palfrey on the branch of a tree, and, kneeling duteously down, turned the slaughtered
deer upon its back, and kept the quarree in that position, while the king, too intent upon
his sport to observe any thing else, drew his couteau down the breast of the animal, secundum
artem; and, having made a cross cut, so as to ascertain the depth of the fat upon the chest,
exclaimed, in a sort of rapture, "Three inches of white fat on the brisket!--prime--prime--as
I am a crowned sinner--and deil ane o' the lazy loons in but mysell! Seven--aught--aught tines
on the antlers. By G--d, a hart of aught tines, and the first of the season! Bash and Battie,
blessings on the heart's-root of ye! Buss me, my bairns, buss me. "The dogs accordingly fawned
upon him, licked him with bloody jaws, and soon put him in such a state that it might have
seemed treason had been doing its full work upon his anointed body." Bide doun, with a mischief
to ye--bide doun, with a wanion," cried the king, almost overturned by the obstreperous caresses
of the large stag-hounds. "But ye are just like ither folks, gie ye an inch and ye take an
ell.--And wha may ye be, friend? "he said, now finding leisure to take a nearer view of Nigel,
and observing what in his first emotion of silvan delight had escaped him,--" Ye are nane of
our train, man. In the name of God, what the devil are ye?"

"An unfortunate man, sire," replied Nigel.

"I dare say that," answered the king, snappishly, "or I wad have seen naething of you. My lieges
keep a' their happiness to themselves; but let bowls row wrang wi' them, and I am sure to hear
of it."

"And to whom else can we carry our complaints but to your Majesty, who is Heaven's vicegerent
over us!" answered Nigel.

"Right, man, right--very weel spoken," said the king; "but you should leave Heaven's vicegerent
some quiet on earth, too."

"If your Majesty will look on me," (for hitherto the king had been so busy, first with the
dogs, and then with the mystic operation of breaking, in vulgar phrase, cutting up the deer,
that he had scarce given his assistant above a transient glance,) "you will see whom necessity
makes bold to avail himself of an opportunity which may never again occur."

King James looked; his blood left his cheek, though it continued stained with that of the animal
which lay at his feet, he dropped the knife from his hand, cast behind him a faltering eye,
as if he either meditated flight or looked out for assistance, and then exclaimed,-- "Glenvarlochides!
as sure as I was christened James Stewart. Here is a bonny spot of work, and me alone, and
on foot too!" he added, bustling to get upon his horse.

"Forgive me that I interrupt you, my liege," said Nigel, placing himself between the king and
his steed; "hear me but a moment!"

"I'll hear ye best on horseback," said the king. "I canna hear a word on foot, man, not a word;
and it is not seemly to stand cheek-for- chowl confronting us that gate. Bide out of our gate,
sir, we charge you on your allegiance.--The deil's in them a', what can they be doing?"

"By the crown that you wear, my liege," said Nigel, "and for which my ancestors have worthily
fought, I conjure you to be composed, and to hear me but a moment!"

That which he asked was entirely out of the monarch's power to grant. The timidity which he
showed was not the plain downright cowardice, which, like a natural impulse, compels a man
to flight, and which can excite little but pity or contempt, but a much more ludicrous, as
well as more mingled sensation. The poor king was frightened at once and angry, desirous of
securing his safety, and at the same time ashamed to compromise his dignity; so that without
attending to what Lord Glenvarloch endeavoured to explain, he kept making at his horse, and
repeating, "We are a free king, man,--we are a free king--we will not be controlled by a subject.--In
the name of God, what keeps Steenie? And, praised be his name, they are coming--Hillo, ho--here,
here-- Steenie, Steenie!"

The Duke of Buckingham galloped up, followed by several courtiers and attendants of the royal
chase, and commenced with his usual familiarity,--"I see Fortune has graced our dear dad, as
usual.--But what's this?"

"What is it? It is treason for what I ken," said the king; "and a' your wyte, Steenie. Your
dear dad and gossip might have been murdered, for what you care."

"Murdered? Secure the villain!" exclaimed the Duke. "By Heaven, it is Olifaunt himself!" A
dozen of the hunters dismounted at once, letting their horses run wild through the park. Some
seized roughly on Lord Glenvarloch, who thought it folly to offer resistance, while others
busied themselves with the king. "Are you wounded, my liege--are you wounded?"

"Not that I ken of," said the king, in the paroxysm of his apprehension, (which, by the way,
might be pardoned in one of so timorous a temper, and who, in his time, had been exposed to
so many strange attempts)--"Not that I ken of--but search him--search him. I am sure I saw
fire-arms under his cloak. I am sure I smelled powder--I am dooms sure of that."

Lord Glenvarloch's cloak being stripped off, and his pistols discovered, a shout of wonder
and of execration on the supposed criminal purpose, arose from the crowd now thickening every
moment. Not that celebrated pistol, which, though resting on a bosom as gallant and as loyal
as Nigel's, spread such cause less alarm among knights and dames at a late high solemnity--not
that very pistol caused more temporary consternation than was so groundlessly excited by the
arms which were taken from Lord Glenvarloch's person; and not Mhic-Allastar-More himself could
repel with greater scorn and indignation, the insinuations that they were worn for any sinister
purposes.

"Away with the wretch--the parricide--the bloody-minded villain!" was echoed on all hands;
and the king, who naturally enough set the same value on his own life, at which it was, or
seemed to be, rated by others, cried out, louder than all the rest, "Ay, ay--away with him.
I have had enough of him and so has the country. But do him no bodily harm--and, for God's
sake, sirs, if ye are sure ye have thoroughly disarmed him, put up your swords, dirks, and
skenes, for you will certainly do each other a mischief."

There was a speedy sheathing of weapons at the king's command; for those who had hitherto been
brandishing them in loyal bravado, began thereby to call to mind the extreme dislike which
his Majesty nourished against naked steel, a foible which seemed to be as constitutional as
his timidity, and was usually ascribed to the brutal murder of Rizzio having been perpetrated
in his unfortunate mother's presence before he yet saw the light.

At this moment, the Prince, who had been hunting in a different part of the then extensive
Park, and had received some hasty and confused information of what was going forward, came
rapidly up, with one or two noblemen in his train, and amongst others Lord Dalgarno. He sprung
from his horse and asked eagerly if his father were wounded.

"Not that I am sensible of, Baby Charles--but a wee matter exhausted, with struggling single-handed
with the assassin.--Steenie, fill up a cup of wine--the leathern bottle is hanging at our pommel.--Buss
me, then, Baby Charles," continued the monarch, after he had taken this cup of comfort; "O
man, the Commonwealth and you have had a fair escape from the heavy and bloody loss of a dear
father; for we are pater patriae, as weel as pater familias.-Quis desiderio sit pudor aut modus
tarn cari capitis!-Woe is me, black cloth would have been dear in England, and dry een scarce!"

And, at the very idea of the general grief which must have attended his death, the good-natured
monarch cried heartily himself.

"Is this possible?" said Charles, sternly; for his pride was hurt at his father's demeanour
on the one hand, while on the other, he felt the resentment of a son and a subject, at the
supposed attempt on the king's life. "Let some one speak who has seen what happened--My Lord
of Buckingham!"

"I cannot say my lord," replied the Duke, "that I saw any actual violence offered to his Majesty,
else I should have avenged him on the spot."

"You would have done wrong, then, in your zeal, George," answered the Prince; "such offenders
were better left to be dealt with by the laws. But was the villain not struggling with his
Majesty?"

"I cannot term it so, my lord," said the Duke, who, with many faults, would have disdained
an untruth; "he seemed to desire to detain his Majesty, who, on the contrary, appeared to wish
to mount his horse; but they have found pistols on his person, contrary to the proclamation,
and, as it proves to be by Nigel Olifaunt, of whose ungoverned disposition your Royal Highness
has seen some samples, we seem to be justified in apprehending the worst."

"Nigel Olifaunt!" said the Prince; "can that unhappy man so soon have engaged in a new trespass?
Let me see those pistols."

"Ye are not so unwise as to meddle with such snap-haunces, Baby Charles?" said James--"Do not
give him them, Steenie--I command you on your allegiance! They may go off of their own accord,
whilk often befalls.--You will do it, then?--Saw ever a man sic wilful bairns as we are cumbered
with!--Havena we guardsmen and soldiers enow, but you must unload the weapons yoursell--you,
the heir of our body and dignities, and sae mony men around that are paid for venturing life
in our cause?"

But without regarding his father's exclamations, Prince Charles, with the obstinacy which characterised
him in trifles, as well as matters of consequence, persisted in unloading the pistols with
his own hand, of the double bullets with which each was charged. The hands of all around were
held up in astonishment at the horror of the crime supposed to have been intended, and the
escape which was presumed so narrow.

Nigel had not yet spoken a word--he now calmly desired to be heard.

"To what purpose?" answered the Prince coldly. "You knew yourself accused of a heavy offence,
and, instead of rendering yourself up to justice, in terms of the proclamation, you are here
found intruding yourself on his Majesty's presence, and armed with unlawful weapons."

"May it please you, sir," answered Nigel, "I wore these unhappy weapons for my own defence;
and not very many hours since they were necessary to protect the lives of others."

"Doubtless, my lord," answered the Prince, still calm and unmoved,-- "your late mode of life,
and the associates with whom you have lived, have made you familiar with scenes and weapons
of violence. But it is not to me you are to plead your cause."

"Hear me--hear me, noble Prince!" said Nigel, eagerly. "Hear me! You-- even you yourself--may
one day ask to be heard, and in vain."

"How, sir," said the Prince, haughtily--"how am I to construe that, my lord?"

"If not on earth, sir," replied the prisoner, "yet to Heaven we must all pray for patient and
favourable audience."

"True, my lord," said the Prince, bending his head with haughty acquiescence; "nor would I
now refuse such audience to you, could it avail you. But you shall suffer no wrong. We will
ourselves look into your case."

"Ay, ay," answered the king, "he hath made appellatio ad Casarem--we will interrogate Glenvarlochides
ourselves, time and place fitting; and, in the meanwhile, have him and his weapons away, for
I am weary of the sight of them."

In consequence of directions hastily given, Nigel was accordingly removed from the presence,
where, however, his words had not altogether fallen to the ground. "This is a most strange
matter, George," said the Prince to the favourite; "this gentleman hath a good countenance,
a happy presence, and much calm firmness in his look and speech. I cannot think he would attempt
a crime so desperate and useless."

"I profess neither love nor favour to the young man," answered Buckingham, whose high-spirited
ambition bore always an open character: "but I cannot but agree with your Highness, that our
dear gossip hath been something hasty in apprehending personal danger from him."

"By my saul, Steenie, ye are not blate, to say so!" said the king. "Do I not ken the smell
of pouther, think ye? Who else nosed out the Fifth of November, save our royal selves? Cecil,
and Suffolk, and all of them, were at fault, like sae mony mongrel tikes, when I puzzled it
out: and trow ye that I cannot smell pouther? Why, 'sblood, man, Joannes Barclaius thought
my ingine was in some measure inspiration, and terms his history of the plot, Series patefacti
divinitus parricidii; and Spondanus, in like manner, saith of us, Divinitus evasit."

"The land was happy in your Majesty's escape," said the Duke of Buckingham, "and not less in
the quick wit which tracked that labyrinth of treason by so fine and almost invisible a clew."

"Saul, man, Steenie, ye are right! There are few youths have sic true judgment as you, respecting
the wisdom of their elders; and, as for this fause, traitorous smaik, I doubt he is a hawk
of the same nest. Saw ye not something papistical about him? Let them look that he bears not
a crucifix, or some sic Roman trinket, about him."

"It would ill become me to attempt the exculpation of this unhappy man," said Lord Dalgarno,
"considering the height of his present attempt, which has made all true men's blood curdle
in their veins. Yet I cannot avoid intimating, with all due submission to his Majesty's infallible
judgment, in justice to one who showed himself formerly only my enemy, though he now displays
himself in much blacker colours, that this Olifaunt always appeared to me more as a Puritan
than as a Papist."

"Ah, Dalgarno, art thou there, man?" said the king. "And ye behoved to keep back, too, and
leave us to our own natural strength and the care of Providence, when we were in grips with
the villain!"

"Providence, may it please your most Gracious Majesty, would not fail to aid, in such a strait,
the care of three weeping kingdoms," said Lord Dalgarno.

"Surely, man--surely," replied the king--"but a sight of your father, with his long whinyard,
would have been a blithe matter a short while syne; and in future we will aid the ends of Providence
in our favour, by keeping near us two stout beef-eaters of the guard.--And so this Olifaunt
is a Puritan?--not the less like to be a Papist, for all that--for extremities meet, as the
scholiast proveth. There are, as I have proved in my book, Puritans of papistical principles--it
is just a new tout on an old horn."

Here the king was reminded by the Prince, who dreaded perhaps that he was going to recite the
whole Basilicon Doron, that it would be best to move towards the Palace, and consider what
was to be done for satisfying the public mind, in whom the morning's adventure was likely to
excite much speculation. As they entered the gate of the Palace, a female bowed and presented
a paper, which the king received, and, with a sort of groan, thrust it into his side pocket.
The Prince expressed some curiosity to know its contents. "The valet in waiting will tell you
them," said the king, "when I strip off my cassock. D'ye think, Baby, that I can read all that
is thrust into my hands? See to me, man,--(he pointed to the pockets of his great trunk breeches,
which were stuffed with papers)--"We are like an ass--that we should so speak--stooping betwixt
two burdens. Ay, ay, Asinus fortis accumbens inter terminos, as the Vulgate hath it--Ay, ay,
Vidi terrain quod esset optima, et supposui humerum ad portandum, et factus sum tributis serviens--I
saw this land of England, and became an overburdened king thereof."

"You are indeed well loaded, my dear dad and gossip," said the Duke of Buckingham, receiving
the papers which King James emptied out of his pockets.

"Ay, ay," continued the monarch; "take them to you per aversionem, bairns--the one pouch stuffed
with petitions, t'other with pasquinadoes; a fine time we have on't. On my conscience, I believe
the tale of Cadmus was hieroglyphical, and that the dragon's teeth whilk he sowed were the
letters he invented. Ye are laughing, Baby Charles?--Mind what I say.--When I came here first
frae our ain country, where the men are as rude as the weather, by my conscience, England was
a bieldy bit; one would have thought the king had little to do but to walk by quiet waters,
per aquam refectionis. But, I kenna how or why, the place is sair changed--read that libel
upon us and on our regimen. The dragon's teeth are sown, Baby Charles; I pray God they bearna
their armed harvest in your day, if I suld not live to see it. God forbid I should, for there
will be an awful day's kemping at the shearing of them."

"I shall know how to stifle the crop in the blade,--ha, George?" said the Prince, turning to
the favourite with a look expressive of some contempt for his father's apprehensions, and full
of confidence in the superior firmness and decision of his own counsels.

While this discourse was passing, Nigel, in charge of a pursuivant-at- arms, was pushed and
dragged through the small town, all the inhabitants of which, having been alarmed by the report
of an attack on the king's life, now pressed forward to see the supposed traitor. Amid the
confusion of the moment, he could descry the face of the victualler, arrested into a stare
of stolid wonder, and that of the barber grinning betwixt horror and eager curiosity. He thought
that he also had a glimpse of his waterman in the green jacket.

He had no time for remarks, being placed in a boat with the pursuivant
and two yeomen of the guard, and rowed up the river as fast as the
arms of six stout watermen could pull against the tide. They passed
the groves of masts which even then astonished the stranger with the
extended commerce of London, and now approached those low and
blackened walls of curtain and bastion, which exhibit here and there a
piece of ordnance, and here and there a solitary sentinel under arms,
but have otherwise so little of the military terrors of a citadel. A
projecting low-browed arch, which had loured over many an innocent,
and many a guilty head, in similar circumstances, now spread its dark
frowns over that of Nigel. The boat was put close up to the broad
steps against which the tide was lapping its lazy wave. The warder on
duty looked from the wicket, and spoke to the pursuivant in whispers.
In a few minutes the Lieutenant of the Tower appeared, received, and
granted an acknowledgment for the body of Nigel, Lord Glenvarloch.
                           Gray.

Such is the exclamation of Gray. Bandello, long before him, has said something like it; and
the same sentiment must, in some shape or other, have frequently occurred to those, who, remembering
the fate of other captives in that memorable state-prison, may have had but too much reason
to anticipate their own. The dark and low arch, which seemed, like the entrance to Dante's
Hell, to forbid hope of regress-- the muttered sounds of the warders, and petty formalities
observed in opening and shutting the grated wicket--the cold and constrained salutation of
the Lieutenant of the fortress, who showed his prisoner that distant and measured respect which
authority pays as a tax to decorum, all struck upon Nigel's heart, impressing on him the cruel
consciousness of captivity.

"I am a prisoner," he said, the words escaping from him almost unawares; "I am a prisoner,
and in the Tower !"

The Lieutenant bowed--"And it is my duty," he said, "to show your lordship your chamber, where,
I am compelled to say, my orders are to place you under some restraint. I will make it as easy
as my duty permits."

Nigel only bowed in return to this compliment, and followed the Lieutenant to the ancient buildings
on the western side of the parade, and adjoining to the chapel, used in those days as a state-prison,
but in ours as the mess-room of the officers of the guard upon duty at the fortress. The double
doors were unlocked, the prisoner ascended a few steps, followed by the Lieutenant, and a warder
of the higher class. They entered a large, but irregular, low-roofed, and dark apartment, exhibiting
a very scanty proportion of furniture. The warder had orders to light a fire, and attend to
Lord Glenvarloch's commands in all things consistent with his duty; and the Lieutenant, having
made his reverence with the customary compliment, that he trusted his lordship would not long
remain under his guardianship, took his leave.

Nigel would have asked some questions of the warder, who remained to put the apartment into
order, but the man had caught the spirit of his office. He seemed not to hear some of the prisoner's
questions, though of the most ordinary kind, did not reply to others, and when he did speak,
it was in a short and sullen tone, which, though not positively disrespectful, was such as
at least to encourage no farther communication.

Nigel left him, therefore, to do his work in silence, and proceeded to amuse himself with the
melancholy task of deciphering the names, mottoes, verses, and hieroglyphics, with which his
predecessors in captivity had covered the walls of their prison-house. There he saw the names
of many a forgotten sufferer mingled with others which will continue in remembrance until English
history shall perish. There were the pious effusions of the devout Catholic, poured forth on
the eve of his sealing his profession at Tyburn, mingled with those of the firm Protestant,
about to feed the fires of Smithfield. There the slender hand of the unfortunate Jane Grey,
whose fate was to draw tears from future generations, might be contrasted with the bolder touch
which impressed deep on the walls the Bear and Ragged Staff, the proud emblem of the proud
Dudleys. It was like the roll of the prophet, a record of lamentation and mourning, and yet
not unmixed with brief interjections of resignation, and sentences expressive of the firmest
resolution.[Footnote: These memorials of illustrious criminals, or of innocent persons who
had the fate of such, are still preserved, though at one time, in the course of repairing the
rooms, they were in some danger of being whitewashed. They are preserved at present with becoming
respect, and have most of them been engraved.--See BAYLEY'S History and Antiquities of the
Tower of London.]

In the sad task of examining the miseries of his predecessors in captivity, Lord Glenvarloch
was interrupted by the sudden opening of the door of his prison-room. It was the warder, who
came to inform him, that, by order of the Lieutenant of the Tower, his lordship was to have
the society and attendance of a fellow-prisoner in his place of confinement. Nigel replied
hastily, that he wished no attendance, and would rather be left alone; but the warder gave
him to understand, with a kind of grumbling civility, that the Lieutenant was the best judge
how his prisoners should be accommodated, and that he would have no trouble with the boy, who
was such a slip of a thing as was scarce worth turning a key upon.--"There, Giles," he said,
"bring the child in."

Another warder put the "lad before him" into the room, and, both withdrawing, bolt crashed
and chain clanged, as they replaced these ponderous obstacles to freedom. The boy was clad
in a grey suit of the finest cloth, laid down with silver lace, with a buff-coloured cloak
of the same pattern. His cap, which was a Montero of black velvet, was pulled over his brows,
and, with the profusion of his long ringlets, almost concealed his face. He stood on the very
spot where the warder had quitted his collar, about two steps from the door of the apartment,
his eyes fixed on the ground, and every joint trembling with confusion and terror. Nigel could
well have dispensed with his society, but it was not in his nature to behold distress, whether
of body or mind, without endeavouring to relieve it.

"Cheer up," he said, "my pretty lad. We are to be companions, it seems, for a little time--at
least I trust your confinement will be short, since you are too young to have done aught to
deserve long restraint. Come, come--do not be discouraged. Your hand is cold and trembles?
the air is warm too--but it may be the damp of this darksome room. Place you by the fire.--What!
weeping-ripe, my little man? I pray you, do not be a child. You have no beard yet, to be dishonoured
by your tears, but yet you should not cry like a girl. Think you are only shut up for playing
truant, and you can pass a day without weeping, surely."

The boy suffered himself to be led and seated by the fire, but, after retaining for a long
time the very posture which he assumed in sitting down, he suddenly changed it in order to
wring his hands with an air of the bitterest distress, and then, spreading them before his
face, wept so plentifully, that the tears found their way in floods through his slender fingers.

Nigel was in some degree rendered insensible to his own situation, by his feelings for the
intense agony by which so young and beautiful a creature seemed to be utterly overwhelmed;
and, sitting down close beside the boy, he applied the most soothing terms which occurred,
to endeavour to alleviate his distress; and, with an action which the difference of their age
rendered natural, drew his hand kindly along the long hair of the disconsolate child. The lad
appeared so shy as even to shrink from this slight approach to familiarity--yet, when Lord
Glenvarloch, perceiving and allowing for his timidity, sat down on the farther side of the
fire, he appeared to be more at his ease, and to hearken with some apparent interest to the
arguments which from time to time Nigel used, to induce him to moderate, at least, the violence
of his grief. As the boy listened, his tears, though they continued to flow freely, seemed
to escape from their source more easily, his sobs were less convulsive, and became gradually
changed into low sighs, which succeeded each other, indicating as much sorrow, perhaps, but
less alarm, than his first transports had shown.

"Tell me who and what you are, my pretty boy," said Nigel.--"Consider me, child, as a companion,
who wishes to be kind to you, would you but teach him how he can be so."

"Sir--my lord, I mean," answered the boy, very timidly, and in a voice which could scarce be
heard even across the brief distance which divided them, "you are very good--and I--am very
unhappy--"

A second fit of tears interrupted what else he had intended to say, and it required a renewal
of Lord Glenvarloch's good-natured expostulations and encouragements, to bring him once more
to such composure as rendered the lad capable of expressing himself intelligibly. At length,
however, he was able to say--"I am sensible of your goodness, my lord--and grateful for it--but
I am a poor unhappy creature, and, what is worse, have myself only to thank for my misfortunes."

"We are seldom absolutely miserable, my young acquaintance," said Nigel, "without being ourselves
more or less responsible for it--I may well say so, otherwise I had not been here to-day--but
you are very young, and can have but little to answer for."

"O sir! I wish I could say so--I have been self-willed and obstinate-- and rash and ungovernable--and
now--now, how dearly do I pay the price of it!"

"Pshaw, my boy," replied Nigel; "this must be some childish frolic-- some breaking out of bounds--some
truant trick--And yet how should any of these have brought you to the Tower?--There is something
mysterious about you, young man, which I must inquire into."

"Indeed, indeed, my lord, there is no harm about me," said the boy, more moved it would seem
to confession by the last words, by which he seemed considerably alarmed, than by all the kind
expostulations and arguments which Nigel had previously used. "I am innocent--that is, I have
done wrong, but nothing to deserve being in this frightful place."

"Tell me the truth, then," said Nigel, in a tone in which command mingled with encouragement;
"you have nothing to fear from me, and as little to hope, perhaps--yet, placed as I am, I would
know with whom I speak."

"With an unhappy--boy, sir--and idle and truantly disposed, as your lordship said," answered
the lad, looking up, and showing a countenance in which paleness and blushes succeeded each
other, as fear and shamefacedness alternately had influence. "I left my father's house without
leave, to see the king hunt in the Park at Greenwich; there came a cry of treason, and all
the gates were shut--I was frightened, and hid myself in a thicket, and I was found by some
of the rangers and examined--and they said I gave no good account of myself--and so I was sent
hither."

"I am an unhappy, a most unhappy being," said Lord Glenvarloch, rising and walking through
the apartment; "nothing approaches me but shares my own bad fate! Death and imprisonment dog
my steps, and involve all who are found near me. Yet this boy's story sounds strangely.--You
say you were examined, my young friend--Let me pray you to say whether you told your name,
and your means of gaining admission into the Park--if so, they surely would not have detained you?"

"O, my lord," said the boy, "I took care not to tell them the name of the friend that let me
in; and as to my father--I would not he knew where I now am for all the wealth in London!"

"But do you not expect," said Nigel, "that they will dismiss you till you let them know who
and what you are?"

"What good will it do them to keep so useless a creature as myself?" said the boy; "they must
let me go, were it but out of shame."

"Do not trust to that--tell me your name and station--I will communicate them to the Lieutenant--he
is a man of quality and honour, and will not only be willing to procure your liberation, but
also, I have no doubt, will intercede with your father. I am partly answerable for such poor
aid as I can afford, to get you out of this embarrassment, since I occasioned the alarm owing
to which you were arrested; so tell me your name, and your father's name."

"My name to you? O never, never!" answered the boy, in a tone of deep emotion, the cause of
which Nigel could not comprehend.

"Are you so much afraid of me, young man," he replied, "because I am here accused and a prisoner?
Consider, a man may be both, and deserve neither suspicion nor restraint. Why should you distrust
me? You seem friendless, and I am myself so much in the same circumstances, that I cannot but
pity your situation when I reflect on my own. Be wise; I have spoken kindly to you--I mean
as kindly as I speak."

"O, I doubt it not, I doubt it not, my lord," said the boy, "and I could tell you all--that
is, almost all."

"Tell me nothing, my young friend, excepting what may assist me in being useful to you," said
Nigel.

"You are generous, my lord," said the boy; "and I am sure--O sure, I might safely trust to
your honour--But yet--but yet--I am so sore beset--I have been so rash, so unguarded--I can
never tell you of my folly. Besides, I have already told too much to one whose heart I thought
I had moved--yet I find myself here."

"To whom did you make this disclosure?" said Nigel.

"I dare not tell," replied the youth.

"There is something singular about you, my young friend," said Lord Glenvarloch, withdrawing
with a gentle degree of compulsion the hand with which the boy had again covered his eyes;
"do not pain yourself with thinking on your situation just at present--your pulse is high,
and your hand feverish--lay yourself on yonder pallet, and try to compose yourself to sleep.
It is the readiest and best remedy for the fancies with which you are worrying yourself."

"I thank you for your considerate kindness, my lord," said the boy; "with your leave I will
remain for a little space quiet in this chair- -I am better thus than on the couch. I can think
undisturbedly on what I have done, and have still to do; and if God sends slumber to a creature
so exhausted, it shall be most welcome."

So saying, the boy drew his hand from Lord Nigel's, and, drawing around him and partly over
his face the folds of his ample cloak, he resigned himself to sleep or meditation, while his
companion, notwithstanding the exhausting scenes of this and the preceding day, continued his
pensive walk up and down the apartment.

