+432+. The human horde, with its jealous patriarch, appears to be a creation of the scientific
imagination. It, again, was derived by its author from the procedure of certain beast-herds
in which the strongest male drives away his rivals. It is supposed, however, that in the human
horde the young men, having found wives, are allowed to come back bringing their wives with
them, and these last the patriarch is supposed not to appropriate. The theory is supported
by no facts of actual usage.

+433+. The supposition that the young men of a clan or tribe go off to seek food, and thus
found a new clan, has more in its favor. Being compelled to seek wives in their new surroundings,
they might thus initiate a habit of outside marriage that would in time become general usage
and therefore sacred. Secession from tribes does occur, and may have been frequent in prehistoric
times, but concerning these times we have little or no information. It may be said that movements
of this sort would furnish a more probable starting-point for savage customs than the ideas
and schemes mentioned above.

+434+. Proof is lacking also for Durkheim's theory. It is not probable that the totem was regarded
as divine in the period in which exogamy arose--by the tribes whose ideas on this point are
known the totem is looked on as a friend and an equal but not as a god. And, as is pointed
out above, there is no such general religious respect for the clan blood as would forbid sexual
intercourse between persons of the same clan. The demand for revenge for the murder of a clansman
arises from the sense of clan solidarity and the necessity of self-defense--it is only in this
regard that the blood of the clan is regarded as sacred.

+435+. As He
looked horrible! In a single night - as aged terribly!

"Fear not, - I will do anything - he said and twisted her mouth with the cracked Lips into a
grimace that would be a smile. "I want to talk to you, you will make it clear - what you do
not know - can not know, and what the professor - "it was it seems impossible to give the hated name
- "perhaps do not know. The only Sorry, I can grant him, "I had to sit next to him, as in previous
Years, and he kept while he spoke, my hand in his.

"I told you, - you are my child! You have my passions, my warm heart, my wild blood. Are you
the - the wife of this man, then - I know exactly all exactly! - A time will come sooner or later,
when your heart is in agony zusammenkrampft, where your blood cries out for love - screams! -
You hear? - After a love that this man you will never be able to give! - Then you will be unhappy,
totunglücklich - or - " he brought out only with extreme effort, the last words - "a dishonorable
- a - A whore!

"

"Papa, dear Papa!" I stroked his hands, "you could not speak, if you I would know better! - I'm
not a kid anymore - I've seen a lot - very, very suffered much, my
blood has finally abated, my heart knows no other love than from the
one that offers me George!

"

"You are wrong, - and this error will be your misfortune. I know you better than you do at this
moment know --. "His eyes were monitored into the distance, he seemed more and more to forget
that I was sitting next to him. "I also loved - and consumed me for love! And recruited a quarter
century long for her, was my wife. I did not understand that all my passion warm it could not -
Until I've become an old man, to I got to see that nothing - nothing
in life I thought word, - my love hope not! - "He paused, overcome
by the memory.

"Do you understand now that I can not bear the thought, you just - no - a lot be seen to be unhappy than
me? - You will not even have children!

"

I winced - but rapidly and violently, I had fought the feeling already, the law could have given
him.

"All the poor, all abandoned children around the world are my children - I answered, "I will
work for them and think!"

Dad stood up: "So I have to tell you anything. You are majorenn, you need my Not permit. Just for
one thing I beg of you, and your mother is the same request - the
Professor Lecture - I myself do not feel strong enough to see him
-: Just wait half a year - up during the check.

You can, unhindered by me, your continue services in the same way
as before - you're still determined - as I track the weapons.

"

I wanted to thank - but this concession was far more than me after yesterday's performance still
expect to be allowed to believe - but he withdrew his hand to me and hastily left the room.

On the evening I wrote George, had gone to my mother now:

"... We had a long serious conversation with each other, to me all the greater impression made
when, shortly before the colonel Glyzcinski had been here, which I in my excitement betrayed,
and I turned my approach the most violent accusations. 'Happens, what you in your ignorance of
the world and the people look at as your happiness, your perish ' he said. My beloved Alix, - we
are not in one sense really ignorant children?

But it should none of us perish! But we have both a mission! There are so even a few who have
our enthusiasm for our cause! If we do not both of these Thing get? Maybe it's a fate that the
beautiful daughter of the excellence old professor zurseite and pushed into a quiet, contemplative,
from all earthly pleasures completed scholarly life suddenly shifted
into a fairy.

If we are undoing can not turn into a blessed fate, if we, especially when I myself conquer?
...

Three hours daily love and sunshine? Is not that a lot? The poor millions who she seems never
to love sun! I sure am thirsty for more, but then, one out of We object! - And I prefer to live
permanently in the dead of night, when I from the main of the dearest people conjure up such
a fate!

So let the serious attempt beloved friend to us with a little luck - to me is the already exuberant
much! - To settle and a lot of work, and please your parents, that they should make it easy for
you ... "

But his eyes punished the rest of this apparent renunciation lies. The radiant Light was gone
from his eyes, like the sunny smile on his lips. And left I did the evening, he talked often
with a fixed expression, as he was suffering all the tortures a farewell for ever. We saw every
day. But soon I realized that my father through Invitations to prevent and be prepared for
all types of my visits to George was looking for. Remembered I him of his promise, he was violent,
I put his wishes against resistance I could be sure the mother weeping on returning home, timid
sister, the father to find darkness and silence again. I stayed the night away - and meetings Commission
meetings for which I had to report in our magazine, made it often
enough necessary - so I snuck in a trembling fear to go home because
the father me had received many times with the most unjustified accusations.

Every article I in our Journal wrote under my name - the anonymity was odious to me as an act of
cowardice - Gave rise to the most painful conflicts and the political
events of the Time he used to what I was sacred to denounce excessive.

I was finally of such a permanent, tortured anxiety that I thought many times of persecution mania
gripped be. The repeated daily effort to be cheerful in front of George failed, more complete,
and one day we stood our condition today is unbearable.

"So you really - really marry this crippled, the one in the middle age of magic have tried, and
burned most certainly would, "he said with an incredulous smile.

"I will," I replied firmly, "and if need be, without the blessing of their parents." Because
I knew that my father's violence would not let me get a word in,
so I wrote him a long, loving letter in which I tried to make clear
to him that I was old enough to shape my life according to their own
conviction that in the higher sense and conscience wrongful, would
take their own intelligence and their own sense of slavishly to power
bid others obey, that it is worse than killing, when a man the other
life immaturity and lack of freedom to condemn.

An entire morning my father seemed to ignore my letter, only when I wanted to leave home, he came
to meet me in the hallway.

"You stay," he cried, clutching my wrist.

"The six months period, which I will have made are still not - but you force me to change
my terms. You will today set off your visits. This is not me quite
puritanical moralist and even poison your soul.

"

"You're breaking your promise, Daddy -" I gasped and pulled myself away forcibly. In the same
Moment he grabbed the old rider pistol on his desk --.

"One step more and I'll shoot --." But then I ran down the stairs - on the Street - across the
square - people and cars and houses I looked like shadows fly past me.

How I came to George - I do not know, - the shrill cry of terror, which he uttered, as I fell in
the middle of his room, brought me to my senses. The same evening I went to friends of his who asked
me in any case their home is already available had. Without giving my address, I informed
the parents that I never return to them am. But before my letter could reach her, George informed
me that Uncle Walter wished to speak to me. He was waiting for me in the Reichstag. I went
there. And while speech in the Chamber the battle raged around the military bill, we were calm
and measured in the lobby and down, and no one could have guessed that here was a destiny decided.

"Hans
was with me - right after that scene. He said, dramatically, as always, of infringement, Curses and
the like, "Uncle Walter began in a businesslike tone. "I told him, that it was the duty of all
to avoid a family scandal, and that I - if he insist on his position
would - my niece, the daughter of my sister, in my Take home, and
that she would marry there under my protection.

Ilse is, thank God, no in my opinion. A state, as the former is untenable for all parts in the
long run.

I'm concerned, Hans has been with Privy From man who had persuaded him to give in, and you
and your fiancé in the most glowing praise. As a result, your father is much reassured. He will
be with my future wife to Pirgallen and allowed your mother, all
to make preparations for your wedding, where he will attend, of course,
not themselves.

"

I had tears in his eyes, - the sudden shock of the new turnaround was too big for me!

"You no reason for me to thank you," Uncle Walter abruptly cut off any response, "I only did my duty
for the sake of the honor of our family.

Moreover, it is high time that we rest before you have. "So I was laid off.

I returned home after my father had left.

With its coolest facial expression I received the mother.

"Your marriage is no more in the way, "she said," except for one little thing that you've obviously
forgotten: the equipment.

We are, as you know, not in a position to procure it to you, will you thus with the settle small
sum of Kleve's family foundation must.

And as for the apartment, so - - "

I could not help laughing: "But these are really nothing but small things, Mama!" I interrupted
her. "We have what we need - and George's house is much too pretty but that I would give it up!
"

"A Hofwohnung - and only three rooms Mama curled contemptuously lips.

"More than enough for us! - What you see: if the array is tomorrow,
we can in fourteen Days to be married - - "

"Of course! - I am still with your papers to the registry office and, if possible also go directly
to the minister. "

»Go to -? Clergy" I stared at her blankly. "We" dedicated non-Christians should We get married spiritually?

"George
is an atheist -"

"Bad enough," cried the mother, "but you get married under the protection of your faithful parents
and it will do with our faith -. or not "

All my explanations and requests bounced off her indomitable will. I looked again the hard-won
future at risk. But when George and I so excited trembling voice told of the mother's decision
drew only a slight shadow over his features.

"If your mother's heart is in this ceremony, so we let her joy," he said after brief reflection.
"Can we depend on our lives and the role of a simple formula make? "I lowered my head silently,
quite frankly I would have his opinion, but not can agree.

The next of kin had been informed of my upcoming marriage. With a certain Satisfaction showed
me the mother to their mouth, the folds of the bitterness daily dug deeper, their partly horrified,
partly pitying letters. I had to Aunt Clotilda himself wrote, days before the wedding she answered
me: "What are you doing is madness yes, worse still, an unnatural crime. On how sad you find yourself
astray, I have already learned through your potsdamer cousins. That it would come but so far
with you, I would have never thought of. God grant that my worst fears for the future come true!
This is the only option, with which I accompany your marriage ... "

But the closer I was my goal, the more indifferent I did all the pinpricks of the daily life.

However, when I on the evening before the wedding in the family home for the last returned I paused
before the door of breath, and in the dark rooms lay my breath heavy as on the heart. In the deserted
his father's room was dead silent, even Clock ticking the no longer, - I had - me, the daughter
who he loved most, it not to float? Silent and withdrawn mother and sister and I were sitting
around the set table and the bread crumbled between your fingers. The lamp was not today light
up and the kettle humming melancholy, - big and I looked reproachfully
at times the pair of blue eyes against sister - the mother avoided
my gaze, and what she said it was rough and hard in the throat.

                                     In my room I was moved earlier
                                                            than usual I laid mechanically my last remaining things in the suitcase.

There was a knock softly - and in the light of the candle troubled
small-Use entered with hot-weeping cheeks, a ring of Orange flowers
in hand and a white veil.

She wanted to talk - she could not, - the tears flowed steadily from his eyes, - a movement,
pain, Love and hate at the same time seemed to dictate, she threw her gift on the table and was in
the next Moment disappeared. I smiled tired - another ring I had probably many years ago dreamed
of - continue to remind all pale, - stood outside the work was the life and desired me!

Once again there was a knock: a letter from George:

"My favorite! For the last time I tell you good night from a distance. From tomorrow you will
stay with me and be. A holy mission in life lies before us, who for the sake of humanity want
to meet, and one that imposes our nuptial marriage us personally.

After my death, you can - but quite honestly, my brave Alix! - Tell the world as their solution
was possible - a warning to others, or to follow. Only a promise requires I now describe yourself:
should you ever capture that love, in which people are warn, and to me, your husband may not
be made, - so think I am your Father, give me your trust. I will prove its worth, and never will
a piece of paper for you to be a fetter. In any situation in life you would lose me.

Your time and in eternity! George. "

And scattered the shadows of the past, calm and happy I was sleeping against the morning.

My cousin Mathilde had come - they, too, with a face, as they should in a Funeral and not participate
in a wedding. On foot, we went four in the street Nettelbeck. We went rapidly - more rapidly than
did the other one escaped. No word of Love was my mother so far been on the lips. Outside the
front door, she was a sigh of relief stand. "Now you have implemented your will," she muttered
between his teeth.

In my future bedroom, a large room whose only window on the dark Court
looked out, I put on my wedding dress.

Wreath and veil were ready, no one came to me to help.

They were all front and adorned the altar!

Then I heard a faint voice at the door: "May I" and a small woman slipped in, embarrassed and
smiling at the large white apron, plucking, in the red hands, a colorful bunch of carnations.
I knew volatile: helping the woman next door was the carpenter's, the George from the misery
had, and Now the day came, in order to get the "Forward". "I could manage today do not miss it," she stammered,
"I have to 'but show the young lady, how powerful we are happy, my
Karl and I! So beautiful is it that the good Professor nu non alleinich
is longer so, - so holy beautiful that you are his wife, "She folded
her hands and looked at me from their bright round eyes, like the
good Catholic, a miraculous holy image.

And then took gently the veil and put it on my hair and put their hands rough work very light
and delicate on the wreath: "The good Lord bless you! - "

Was it because I came out of the darkness, light, or because I had tears of joy in his eyes, -
I saw when I was in George's room, nothing but waves of shimmering
gold gloss. As shadows, us nothing came on, moving the people in it.
I heard the words with which I joined no sense, and soft sobs that
came from far away. Around the table behind the black figure of the
pastor envisioned a wave of soft floral fragrance over to me, a white
Cross shining on a green background - it had once stood on Grandma's
desk - and the black writing on it was the wedding sermon that I heard
only: "Love listen never on. A few handshakes, I still feel a few
ceremonial kisses on the forehead - Dresses noise - half loud chatter
- doors slam - and again the shrill Sound of the bell: a message.
"In the most tender love I am with you and George. Your father. "

Then
it was quiet, very still with us. We were alone.

CHAPTER XIX

In
a valley of peace, I lived. Gentle hills guarded it before the world
as friendly Guards. My way did not know any more precipitous slopes,
where the foot stumbles anxious, never threatened a rock, not a hawk
watching for my singing birds. The streams dampened their talk, the
wind gently caressed leaves and flowers, the sunlight was like a motherly
Smile.

How did it happen that the days went past without fear - without
dispute, that the hours not longer met were from the last secret of
air rage? And say that I was allowed, what I thought? How was it possible
that I did not hear any Kettenklirren if my new foot paths entered,
that I was not alone and no one zurückriß scolding me when I collect
from the mountains far - far looked into the distance?
Similar totemic clan functions appear in the islands of Torres Straits, the Turtle and Dugong
clans performing ceremonies to increase the supply of turtles and to attract dugongs. Magical
control of totems for the benefit of the whole community is reported to be found in the Siouan
Omaha clans (in the center of the North American continent). The tribes just mentioned are
those in which the social organization is definitely totemistic.

+461+. Elsewhere the economic function attaches to other bodies than totemic clans, as in parts
of Southeast Australia, and in West Australia (where the ceremonies are conducted by the exogamous
classes). In New Guinea the totemic character of the performances appears to be doubtful. A
single instance of clan action has been found among the East African Baganda--the women of
the Grasshopper clan undertake to increase the supply of their totem; why this duty is assigned
to the women is not clear--the custom appears to involve a relaxation of totemistic rules.
The economic festivals and "dances" of the Siouan Mandans and Hidatsa are general tribal ceremonies.
Among the Pueblo Indians such rites are the care of religious fraternities;[815] the Zuñi Frog
clan performs a ceremony to procure rain, but this duty is mainly committed to rain-priests.
In Northwestern America the magical performances are not connected with totemic clans.

+462+. Definition of totemism. It appears, then, that not one of the points just mentioned
is found invariably in the systems of organization commonly called totemic. Exogamy is an independent
phenomenon; the clan does not always bear the name of the totem, and is not always held to
have descended from it; usages in regard to eating it vary greatly; magical economic ceremonies
are performed by other than totemic bodies. There is no known clan that includes all these
elements in its organization, though in Central Australia there is an approach to complete
inclusion; the features lacking are clan exogamy and absolute prohibition of eating the totem,
but practically a clan does not eat its totem, and exogamy, for reasons given above, may be
left out of consideration. The Central Australian system may be said to be substantially complete;
with it the North American systems stand in sharp contrast, and from it many others diverge.

+463+. But, with all these differences, the fact remains that in totemism the human group stands
in a peculiar relation to some nonhuman object.[816] This general statement must, however,
be defined in two particulars: the relation is an alliance for the benefit of both parties;
and the nonhuman object is not regarded as a god and is not worshiped. The first of these particulars
marks totemism off from that general regard that is paid by savages to animals, plants, certain
heavenly bodies, and other physical things;[817] the second particular distinguishes it from
the cult of ghosts and gods proper. We may therefore define it as an alliance, offensive and
defensive, between a human group and a nonhuman group or object that is not worshiped, the
friendly relation existing between every member of the one group and every member of the other
group.[818]

+464+. This relation having been formed, the various features mentioned above will naturally
become attached to it in various ways and to different extents. The clan will somehow get a
name, when and how we need not now ask; usually its name is that of the totem--this is in keeping
with the intimate connection between the two. To trace the origin of the clan to the totem
is only to do what is done abundantly among uncivilized and civilized peoples (Hebrews, Greeks,
and others); the eponymous ancestor is constructed out of the current name of the clan. To
refrain from killing or eating a friendly animal or plant is a simple mark of respect. The
conception of special ability in a clan to insure a supply of its totem for food is in accord
with savage ideas of magical endowment. When the custom of exogamy arose it would naturally
attach to the clan as the social unit.

+465+. In view of the diverse physical surroundings of the tribes of the earth and their intellectual
differences, it cannot be surprising that they have combined these elements of organization
in various ways. In their efforts to secure food, good marriage relations, protection of property,
and defense against enemies, they have from time to time adopted such measures as the circumstances
made desirable and possible. There is evidence that in some instances clans have changed their
social regulations, sometimes by a process of internal growth, sometimes by borrowing from
without. It is not always possible to trace such movements, and it is impossible now to say
what the earliest social constitution of men was. The probability is that the earliest state
was an unformed one, without governmental or other institutions, and that totemism was one
of the first attempts to introduce order into society. In accordance with what is said above,
the term 'totemism' may be used to mean particularly a simple alliance between men and nonhuman
things, and then more generally to mean such an alliance combined in whatever way, with one
or more of the particular customs described in preceding paragraphs.[819]

+466+. Geographical survey of totemistic usages. If totemism be taken in the simpler sense,
as a certain sort of intimate relation between men and nonhuman things, it will be found to
be widely distributed in the noncivilized world. Its occurrence becomes rarer in proportion
as adjuncts are attached to it; as is remarked above, it is hardly possible to find a clan
whose constitution embraces all adjuncts. Where usages like exogamy occur, or where there is
reverence for an object, without belief in a definite, nontheistic relation between a human
clan and a nonhuman object, we cannot recognize totemism proper; such usages must be treated
as belonging to man's general attitude toward his nonhuman associates. The question whether
they represent germinal or decadent totemism, or neither, must be considered separately in
every case.

+467+. The two great totemistic regions of the world are Australia and North America, and in
each of these the variations of custom run through the gamut of possible differences. In each
of them also the native population may include different stocks, though on this point there
is uncertainty. Differences of climate and topographical situations there are, but these do
not always account for the diversities of culture and custom.[820]

+468+. Australia. In the heart of Central Australia (the home of the Arunta and other tribes)
there are clans that bear the names of their totems, and trace their descent from half-human
totem ancestors, with whom they consider themselves to be identical; totems, however, are not
hereditary, but are determined by the ancestor connected with the place where the mother first
becomes aware of the child within her; each clan performs magical ceremonies to secure a supply
of its totem for the associated clans, and, when the totem is an animal or a plant, hunts or
gathers it and brings it to be distributed; at the distribution the headman of the providing
clan must eat a little of the food ceremonially, and at other times clansmen eat of it sparingly;[821]
the rule of exogamy relates not to the totemic clans, but to the phratries or subphratries.

+469+. In the South Central region these features are found, with an exception in the rule
concerning eating one's totem. Sometimes, as in the Urabanna tribe, such eating is forbidden.
But among the Warramunga there is a relaxation of the rule in the case of old people--for them
the food restriction is removed (apparently a humanitarian provision); on the other hand, for
other clansfolk there is an extension of the rule--the prohibition includes two subclasses
of the moiety to which the clan belongs, and conditionally includes the whole moiety (this
is perhaps a cautionary measure, to guard against the possibility of unlawful eating on the
part of clansmen).

+470+. The special feature in North Australia (on the shores of the Gulf of Carpentaria) is
the absolute prohibition of eating the totem. In regard to the performance of magical ceremonies
for increase of the totem also there is the peculiarity that a clan is not bound to conduct
such performances--it is optional with it to do so or not; it has magical power, but is not
required by custom to exercise it. It is suggested by Spencer and Gillen that this variation
from the usage of the Central region is to be attributed to the more regular rainfall on the
coast, which insures a more regular supply of food and thus does away with the necessity for
magic.[822] Possibly, also, this climatic feature may account for the stricter rule of prohibition
mentioned above; as the rule is sometimes relaxed when it is hard to get food, so, on the other
hand, it may be strictly enforced when food is plentiful.

+471+. Still a different situation appears in the southeastern part of the continent (New South
Wales and Victoria)--several prominent features of the Central system are absent. The Dieri
clans bear the names of their totems, from which also they think themselves descended, but
they eat them freely. Some adjacent tribes eat them only at a pinch, others refrain from them.
The clans of the Narrinyeri are mostly localized, and the clan-names are not now those of the
totems;[823] the totems are eaten. Suddenly -
I was sitting just under dripping trees on the wet bank that had built the Sepp me - I thought
of my eighteen years, - heavens, I was young! Completely overwhelmed by this Recognizing I was
in great leaps down the mountain and could not believe laughter I lay at full length in the mosses.

Aunt
Clotilda postponed their arrival from one week to another.

If she had a cold and the weather was bad, she feared for her voice, and before the consideration
of the threat posed to Everything had to stand back more. She sent me admonitory letters in which they
are prescribed exactly how far I could go alone - a quarter of an hour within a maximum of wars - and
sharpened Kathy the one, take good care of me.

Meanwhile, spring came and the trees put him in honor of its first green flag leaves from. I sat for
hours on the porch in a rocking chair aunts - without manual labor, without a book - and sunning
myself. But me and Kathy were just the old gardener and his ancient poodle in the house, in
the stoicism of his Greisentums abandoned even the barking had. It was therefore perfectly still
with us. The more I was astonished when a strong man's voice one morning struck my ear.

"Do not know me," she cried, "I have my eyes in his head - and bet ten to one. the Rose house
is inhabited "

"But really and truly, your Highness, the Baroness are not here,"
whined the Kathrin.

A bright laughter was the answer.

'You could be right at the end - but are all over the world there is only one such black Curly hair,
like her Alix, and I saw from the bank over there. Ghosts are not so pretty. "

Hellmut's it!

I ran out and held out both hands.

The few years since our last meeting were wiped out as, and only when I saw that a tall man with
tanned face and saucy mustache on the full lips in front of me blushed I involuntarily.

"Will - you do not come near," I said hesitantly.

"But Alix - 'you!" We're old friends, "so he took my hand with strong pressure and went with
me to the just left the breakfast table while Kathleen us very pale and nachstarrte absent.

The unusual situation was embarrassed us. Silently I took a cup from the Cabinet and poured him
a cup of tea while I felt his eyes rested on me.

"How beautiful you've grown" - as he whispered to himself and walked in the moment Kathy in
and rumbled with eager bustle in the room.

This forced us to conversation, which, at first forced and stiff, gradually became more natural.
After How and Why our being here, we asked each other, and I learned
that he on his way to Northern Italy suddenly seized in Munich had
the pleasure of seeing the mountains of Garmisch again.

"Our Managers in Partenkirchen, I was not just dominant, "he laughed," the company had in Mom's
room, as I entered. I have forgiven him for mercy, on condition that he talk about my presence to
every mouth. to "

"Then we both are incognito," I said cheerfully, "the aunt finds namely basically my Compromising
solitude so that I had to promise to see me in Garmisch not leave. "

By about noon, he stayed. The good Kathrin warning looks that I caught at times took me the courage
to invite him to dinner. The next morning, however, before his onward journey, promised he give
me a "solemn farewell visit to make."

"If the woman knew the Baroness," said Kathy sighing, as he was gone.

It was raining when I woke up the next day, "Well he is certainly not," was My first thought, and
sullen, I pulled the blanket over his shoulders.

But a quiet Hope appeared on the same after that and forced me to
take everyday felt coat a pretty, to bring light house dress from
the closet.

As soon as I sat at the kettle humming when I out his cheerful "Good morning, Miss Kathy" heard.
"I'm wet like a cat, but a fiddle, - You can see the critters get along well in man, "he added,
and even the well-bred servant allowed himself to laugh.

They even let us alone - it was the Last time, she might say to themselves for their own reassurance.

How
pleasant it was in the room, while outside the rain at the windows niedertroff! We ate breakfast
and chatted with each other, like old familiar, and finally sat down
before the small fire that radiated a comforting warmth.

"How about a cigarette? asked and he held me back the filled can.

"In these hallowed halls?" I replied, half in alarm.

"Until the stern comes, the smell is gone. - - I must tell you what, Alix, and that does not
work without the Glimmstengel. The is encouraging, you know! "We smoked a long time silence.

"You do not have to watch myself so," he finally began again, "or is too funny to me before
that I will make confessions, as a comrade. "I moved to the chair smiling Side and looked straight
ahead into the fire. "It was so pretty?"

"Fine! - If you just should not have such a damn nice profile! - "He paused again. After a few minutes
but he began: "I have - done stupid things in Berlin. It has the poor mother, who is not a bed of roses,
a hearty snacks cost money, put matters right --. "A bit startled I turned my head towards him
-" it had nothing in common, Alix - child, certainly not. You can
not know, we had a goes.

We are not made of stone - are the young girls of the society stiff and boring such as wooden
dolls, -. sies and if not, will it their misfortune, "I shuddered. - "Can sing a song at the
end even of what? - In short, you see, I fell in love one day in a ballet rat - a sweet, small beetles,
I say to you - "too bad that I am at this moment to tears annoyed - "but horribly uneducated.
I they really liked to have had only two days, after wars habit pity - as I know, " - He got
up and walked restlessly about the room and down the cigarette between the fingers crush. "I
could finally no longer - I had to be free!

Her father ran posthaste to her mother and cried so what of destroyed
lives, stolen honor before.

Across from me was He previously the submissive-grateful servant mime. The rest you can think
of at the end! "

I was trembling with excitement. I had packed an idea that would not let me go less. "Did she
- a - child," I blurted out with all the effort. Puzzled, he stood before me stand. "You're really
knocked out of the way, Alix," so he stretched out his hand. "My hand on it, no! Had the accident
happened, otherwise I would have spoken! - But we are not yet over.

They sent me on vacation - to Italy, you see! - Get married, "ranking
with comic horror - and if the reprieve is over, I will! his hands.

"Who?" I asked, while my heart beat audibly.

"Who? A little princess, of course, flaxen blond - you know how I love you so what! -, anemic,
a figure like a well-planed board. "I felt with secret joy the quick glance, the herüberzog to me.
"The peers with the necessary Mammon do not run around by the dozens
in the world.

And a peer, it must be, but Mama always dreaming, that her only cousin
George's crown of a fine day on the large head is falling!

A rich of course, - you know how painful contradiction in our wallets
to the Splendor of our name is!

"

"And you?"

"I wish him a long life, a good wife and a dozen boys! To govern I have no talent, and to marry the
least. I know it really only been yesterday.

In the stifling atmosphere of Berlin, in view of the assembled family
council, I was very young.

But as I went yesterday from you, I'm climbing around until late into the night in the mountains
and I have had a decent glacier wind whistling around the nose. Today, I know it is not - let
them put me on my account to the Insterkosaken, I can peer not marry. "

He turned his back and looked out into the rain.

must he repeated
softly, "I have one I love - - can not"

I "

It was quiet between us.

Only the clock ticked loudly and violently.

"I want to stay here, Alix," he said after a while, with quiet earnestness. "I need the loneliness
and - you. You have to help me think of what will become of me!

"

"Then, stay, Hellmut," I answered quickly, but at that moment occurred
to me that Kathy , and the aunt, and the talk of the people, and already
it was myself, my faithful guardian, and said that after she had cleared
away the dishes as slowly as possible:

"Shall the order for Christoph
Highness a car?

He goes straight down into the village. "

Hellmut the blood rising in his head. He understood. "No," he said, "I walk. It is not necessary
that people know more about my being here. "The Kathy saw him doubtfully at. "Fear not for
your ladyship, Kathy," he continued, "I'm their best Friend and will not tolerate that their
curved just a hair is. "When they then had gone silent, he turned to me:

"Oh damn about the considerations of the meanness of the others! Is it not the most natural
of the world that we sit here together? And now -! I can not come back - because of you not!
"

I had a bitter taste in the mouth.

               At the same time
                            came from MIRS cowardly and pathetic to let him go like this.

"I'm outside," I said hesitantly and embarrassed, "if you need me, as you say, then - then we could
meet somewhere. "

       "Thank you, thank you, Alix.

But that does not make things better. - We are a secret Rendezvous specify how - how ... no,
I can not do that to you. We'll do short, goodbye. " He took my hand to his lips and turned away,
without waiting for an answer quickly to the door.

In me it was cooking. Ah, who could smash these idols of the Convention, on the altar our best feelings
and best hours bleeding to death, the honor of our free terms beat in chains. Towards evening,
when I stepped out of the gate, I jumped a little boy in the way and held me against a bunch
of snowdrops. I already moved the stock to to buy them, expressed as the bearer of it to me, laughing
mischievously ran in the hand and it. Now I only discovered the letter, which was wrapped around
the stems.

"In concept, to leave," said Hellmut "I send these flowers to my dear friend, the only ones I
could find. I drive straight to Berlin. Sorry as I Mamas because doing - my decision is clear:
I will remain free.

Even when I use the eagle on the helmet has to sacrifice. I'll let me put the Ludwigsluster
dragoons and distinguish of you with the hope of a happy reunion in Schwerin and in a friendly
continuation interrupted our conversation.

Your old friend Hellmut. "

My joy was so great that I wear alone could not.

The old Kathy, had to so she also graced the dinner sitting next to me and drink the wine with me,
I had myself taken out of the cellar.

Finally, I called in the Poodle, and drove him in the room so long in a circle around until
forgotten childhood memories in it dawns and he, happily wagging his tail, broke out in a
hoarse bark.

* * * * *

Mid-June I was back in Schwerin. In four weeks, stood before the entrance of the Grand Duke,
should be followed by a series of celebrations of all kinds.

Impossible, I was my mother Ensure all toilet left alone, and my aunt, shortly after leaving for
Hellmut Grainau arrived, gave me out of pure emotion through my devotion to duty, a pink silk
Dress of white, gold-embroidered tulle and fowling. Now I was sitting at Mama's bright surprise yourself
Schneider in the room. "These are quite new talents that you develop," she said, I tried on
tirelessly, stuck and fixed, only the mechanical completion of the
work the seamstress about leaving.

No one should it noted that our clothes do not work at Gerson had been. It was almost disturbing
to me that a few stalwart admirer of last winter had arranged for my birthday a land parcel that
me a whole day work stoppage would cost. Finally, but I amused myself delicious and made me
happier because depending on the court to make. We camped just below the book and made the pop
Sektpfropfen, when my father appeared, had not the morning to agreement, and a sky-blue Uniform
appeared beside him.

"I'll take seconds. Serene Highness the Prince Hellmut with the same,
his visit us today want to do, "said Papa.

All were cracked and fallen silent. Every prince, even the smallest, calls in each showing
even the most distinguished circle, an embarrassed pause. Hellmut bowed and then stepped quickly
to me, I am not alone of my lawn had stirred.

"This day I have chosen for my inaugural visit to you as an old My most loyal friend congratulations
on your feet. "When I saw the formal form of address surprised him on.

"Thank you, Your Highness, that you remember me," I replied with barely concealed Ridicule.

As
we sat together after quite isolated, - the others did, despite all
their curiosity at a respectful distance - he explained his behavior.

My father had asked him, "of which you" to our childhood refrain, "you know the gossips small residences
to misunderstand well to my request, "he added. He was a poor psychologist, the good dad! He
should have known that this prohibition our relations took the innocence and lent them the
stamp of secrecy.

We returned without Conspiracy to you back when we were alone, and
talked to us ahead of others, amused the comedy that plays to the
fools we, "Grace" and "gracious lady" on.

Bright summer days came. The season in which we were born, has a mysterious Importance to our
lives. I never feel the existence of its terror and pain, his Joy and delight so strong and
deep, as if heaven and earth flow out Glutwellen. As the rosebud opens and extends to the depth
of her golden chalice of the illuminating Sun reveals, it will open
my heart.

subjected to a July morning under martial music and waving
flags and Friedrich Franz II Anastasia, his wife, to the streets of
Schwerin Castle.

On the evening of that day, while the moon is high in the sky and covered the fairy-tale castle in silver
veil was the entire lake from large and small, with thousands of colorful animated lamps decorated
ships.

Up high in the masts swung the lights, and garlands of flowers dragged in shimmering water.

Only a few dignitaries were invited to the palace this evening to
recover from the terraces of the Castle Garden from the play below
to watch.

We belonged to, and Hellmut also of the Suite was the chief guest, the King of Greece attachiert
was.

Off I was under the yew hedges, when a voice behind me whispered, "Come with me. I took the arm
that was offered to me, trembling, feeling the pressure with which
he is to mine pressed.

Tucked between the Rotdornbüschen was down there a boat. There was no lights, only cushions
and ceilings and at the foot of the seats in bright baskets an abundance of roses. We drove
close to the umbuschten shore and beyond, where the lake was getting dark and lonely. As an
army of fireflies appeared from where the lights of the ships, while the moon is big and Majestic
saw us down.

"Are you cold, Alix" - he pulled in the oars and wrapped my knees fixed in the ceiling. His Hand
touched my bare arm was hot and trembling, and shot through my heart a cutting pain, which it
did well but so strange ... We looked at each other - deep and firm.

As appeared another dark boat next to us.

"Grace to forgive - to break the gentlemen - may I offer my help?" Graf Waldburg wars, a regimental
comrade of the prince, who quickly decided in our boat jumped, rowed into the middle of the colorful
boats, where we - a threesome! - From all sides were seen and interfered
with our roses in the Battle of Flowers, published together We in
the castle garden in the company and told so harmless as possible
from our fun common carriers.

"Thank you, Waldenburg, whispered Hellmut. Another striking together of the spores, a polite-cool
Own head as a response from me, and I walked up behind her parents to the car that us home
brought.

What are dreams that followed one another summer day. Crushing, thunderstorms seemed otherwise such
heavy air to disperse Mecklenburg again, the youth ventured suddenly
young to be, and the old smiled indulgently about it.

The usually quiet park was full of life: we were dancing on a smooth lawn between buntbewimpelten
Masts, and we played old trusted children's games under the shade of the trees, and, tired, We
lost ourselves in the clipped passages, past leaping fountains and water weathered images
of the gods. Blind and deaf to the world around us, and yet as immune from the consecration of
the high time of year, we moved among the people.

Often it was wreathed in car farther out in the woods, or to one of the more distant lakes, each
of which seemed to us more beautiful than the other: one, because it is narrow and long to Stretched
horizon, surrounded by friendly villages around, the other, because it alone and was between
dark wooded hills. Or we rode on the dewy morning with penalties Curb cross-country, where many
miles of no man we met, was to see a house until a stately manor house turned up, the poor
Taglöhnerhäuser outstanding, - a reduced Image of Schwerin. When I saw her, I used to have
to do from afar hand.

"They are afraid of most events with the mutts?" Said on such an occasion, a pert Girlfriend.
"That probably no trust me," I replied, "but I am ashamed in front
of the poor People laughed all; Hellmut just turned to me and said, ".

They were the poor people the least understood. I believe that they feel for us nothing but curiosity
and admiration. "

"So much the worse! I understand them only if they throw stones at us, "I replied loud and my mare
the whip, expressed in the flank, so that they obey in long gallop lapsed. Hellmut but I stayed
close to the side, grabbed firmly with his right hand into my reins and said that while his
bright eyes anblitzten me arrogant: it go, "Will not you tell me, You sweet, savage "My anger
was gone - that I was him, the Strong was allowed to submit, - How
deep was the bliss!

Once we were rowed across to Rabenstein field, the quiet widow seat of the old Grand Duchess.
With the steam ship was ahead of us drove a large party, all older and set Members who sometimes
felt the obligation to protect our youth.

I held the never long, and was always the first, the ways and means found from its purview
to Disappear. Hellmut behaved properly and did not violate the mold. Even now I was with mixed
feelings: "He who is not a Philistine, follow me," the tea-table rose and down to the lakeshore.
A few young men came after me, and outraged by Hellmut's obstinacy, I flirted with them in erzwungner
merriment.

When we returned home at dusk on foot, he finally joined me. A dug deep wrinkle between his eyebrows,
his otherwise good face an evil Gave expression. "You must not do this to me again - do you hear,"
he hissed at me and iron clasped his fingers my wrist. "Forgive me - I whispered," but why
have you left me all alone? "-" Do not you know that I am doing everything just for your sake?
" - Very soft his voice was there and we walked together in silence, the words were too poor
for the fullness of our feelings.

On another summer day was the glühheißen Infantry Regiment in the hunting lodge of a festival Friedrichstal.
Hot and exhausted from dancing and from the game, we all went to the lake Neumühler down, where are
the beech and birch trees on the riverside trail dense foliage. Gradually dispersed the crowd
here and there, we stayed only five are together - two girls and three men. At a small bay dichtumbuschten
we camped, and the desire seized me, to cool their feet in the water.
My companion flushed dark at my request, I to do after. "Hey, that's
inappropriate," she whispered softly. "Inappropriate?" Repeated I
aloud, "do not you show maybe your hands, your arms, your neck - and
why not your feet? "-" Bravo, bravo, "one of the men applauded. That
spurred me on, and Looking cool of one to another, I continued: "Shall
I tell you what we all know and its not to say you married? - We are
just ashamed of our ugliness - "This I had soon stripped off shoes
and stockings.

An oppressive silence followed, and I dared not look
around me, my eyes stuck on my bare feet as I saw it for the first
time - they were so white, so terribly white! - my blood rose into
his forehead. I timidly touched the water with your toes. "It - it
is - too cold, "I said with difficulty and pulled his feet quickly
in the clothes. A noise told me that the men are away, the girl next
to me, even redder and embarrassed I helped me quickly dressing and
then ran on before him. Slowly I rose, - the limbs were difficult
for me - because Hellmut stood before me - a few drops of sweat on
the Forehead and quite pale.

"Now I build a wall around day after
day you can so that nothing and no one to offend you, and you - you
give up this - this award-villains, "it came haltingly about his lips.
I threw the tears from his eyes - but already had his arms wrapped
around me, and His mouth pressed close to the mean and the hot, long
insulated back waves of passion passed over us.

As we parted, as
I got home - I know nothing more of it. All I know is I was sitting
at the window wide open and the linden night air inhaled deeply and
slowly, as I had never before known the joy of breathing. Then my
heart beat stopped, - a solid Occurs, a slower sword broke the silence,
a light shone through the blue Bushes of the garden. "Alix -" it sounded
wistful. - And I took the rose, which I still crushed in the belt
go and threw it into two open hands.

All thought was wiped out in
my brain, I felt only with increased intensity. Morning at the coffee
table I tenderly embraced her father, - it struck me suddenly sad
at heart, that I met his touching love was always so cool --. "You're
so early in the morning illuminated, "he said, and patted me half
surprised half blessed cheeks. So here guilty and I kissed her mother's
hands, - how badly I had been their loyalty worth it! - Oh, and how
serious and haggard she looked! But beginning sprang the sister I
raised them on her lap and whispered in her pink, garnished by a loud
Goldilocks Ear: "You - I know something very secretly last night the
water nymphs dancing in the gray castle dwarf until it plopped out
of sheer breathlessness on the lawn. I believe ever since and he is
still snoring, and the mermaids have forgotten the way home, laughing
into the water. Come on out - am ! End we see her still She cheered
bright for joy, and true - ten minutes later We were down at the lake. The crest may
be regarded either as the non-artistic modification or degradation of an original true totem
(due to diminished reverence for animals and other causes), or as an employment of sacred objects
(for purposes of organization) that has not reached the proportions of totemism proper. Which
of these views will seem the more probable will depend partly on the degree of importance assigned
to certain traditions and folk-stories of the Northwestern tribes, partly on one's construction
of the general history of totemistic observances. In so obscure a subject a definite theory
can hardly be maintained. The large number of stories in which the beginnings of clan life
are attributed to marriages between clansmen and eponymous animals, or to beneficent or other
adventures with such animals, may appear to indicate that there was an underlying belief in
the descent of clans from animals. On the other hand, in certain low tribes (in New Britain
and the Solomon Islands and elsewhere) the feeling of kinship with animals is said to exist
without the belief that they are ancestors, or the animal is regarded as the representative
of a human ancestor rather than as itself the ancestor. This latter view may be a bit of euhemeristic
rationalism.[854]

+504+. While guardian spirits (generally in animal form) are found abundantly in America and
elsewhere,[855] their rôle in the tribes of the Pacific Coast appears to be specially important,
for there they largely take the place occupied in Central Australia by the clan totems. They
are not wholly lacking, however, in Australia. Among the nontotemic Kurnai of Southeast Australia
there are animal patrons of the sexes and of shamans and other individuals. In like manner
the shamans of the Pacific Coast Haidas and Tlingit have their guardians, and sometimes secret
societies are similarly provided; in the winter ceremonies of the Kwakiutl the youth is supposed
to be possessed by the patron of the society to which he belongs. We thus have, apparently,
similar and mutually independent developments in Australia and America out of the early relations
of men with animals.

+505+. The Eskimo live in small groups, and marriage is locally unrestricted. There is the
usual reverence for animals, with folk-stories of animal creators and of transformations, but
no well-defined marks of totemism, and no recognition of individual protecting animal-spirits.

+506+. In the Californian tribes, which are among the least developed in America, no traces
of totemistic organization have been found.[856] The people live, or lived, in villages. The
shamans, who are important members of the communities, have their familiar spirits, acquired
through dreams and by ascetic observances; but these belong to the widespread apparatus of
magic, and differ in their social function from guardian spirits proper.

+507+. There are no definite marks of totemism in Central and Northeastern Asia, and few such
marks in Africa. The Siberian Koryaks believe in a reincarnation of deceased human beings in
animals, but their social organization is not determined by this belief. Certain clans of the
Ainu (inhabiting the northernmost islands of the Japan archipelago) are said to regard as ancestors
the animals whose names they bear, but this belief appears to be socially unimportant. Marriage
is not controlled by clan relations.

+508+. Throughout savage Africa sacred animals, plants, and other objects play a great part
in life, but generally without assuming a specifically totemistic rôle.

+509+. In the great Bantu family the usages vary greatly.[857] One of the most interesting
systems is that of the Bakuana (in the south). Here the eponymous animal approaches divinity--not
only is it killed with regret, it is a thing to swear by, and has magical power; but independence
of the totem appears in the fact that it may be changed; that is, it is a friend adopted by
men at their convenience. It is in accord with this conception that the Bakuana (who are pastoral
and agricultural) have clan gods. Beyond taboos on sacred objects there is nothing in the Bantu
territory that clearly indicates a totemistic organization of society.

+510+. In the half-civilized and higher savage communities of the eastern and western parts
of the continent totemism proper, if it has ever been predominant, has been expelled or depressed
by higher forms of organization. It seems not to exist among the Masai, a vigorous people with
an interesting theistic system. The neighboring Nandi, who have clan totems, lay stress rather
on the family than on the clan in their marriage laws, and their taboos include more than their
totems; their excessive regard for the hyena may be due simply to their fear of the animal.[858]

+511+. The half-civilized Baganda (of the British Uganda Protectorate) refrain from injuring
clan totems, but the functions of the clans are now political and religious (relating, for
example, to the building of temples) under the control of a quasi-royal government; there is
almost complete absence of magical ceremonies for the multiplication or control of sacred objects.[859]
Old marriage laws are relaxed--a king may marry his sister (as in ancient Egypt). Free dealing
with totems is illustrated by the adoption of a new cooking-pot as totem by one clan. The cult
of the python obtains here, as in West Africa. Among the neighboring Banyoro, and among the
Bahima (west of Victoria Nyanza), who are herdsmen with a kingly government, there is the usual
reverence for animals, but eponymous animals are not important for the social organization.

+512+. In West Africa also definite totemistic organization has not been found. Everywhere
there is reverence for the eponymous sacred thing, and, when it is edible, refusal to eat it;
but the taboos are sometimes, as in Siena (which is agricultural), more extensive than the
list of sacred things. In Southern Nigeria at funerals (and sometimes on other occasions) the
totem animal or plant is offered, in the form of soup, to the dead; the animal or plant in
such cases is regarded, apparently, simply or mainly as acceptable food for ghosts--the offering
is a part of ancestor-worship. In Congo families have sacred animals (as in Samoa) which they
abstain from eating. Here and there occurs belief in the reincarnation of deceased human beings
in animals. A negro fetish, becoming intimately associated with a clan, sometimes resembles
a totem. The half-civilized Ashanti, Dahomi, and Yoruba have elaborate theistic systems, with
monarchical governments that leave no place for a totemistic organization.[860]

+513+. Madagascar, before it came under European control, had a well-defined religious and
political hierarchy.[861] Along with its very elaborate tabooism the island has beliefs concerning
animals that are found in totemic systems but do not take the form of totemism proper. The
animal is regarded as an ancestor or a patron, but clans do not take their names from animals,
there is no general rule of exogamy, and there is no word corresponding exactly to the word
'totem.' The question arises whether the Malagasy system is a stage antecedent to totemism
proper or an attenuated survival of it.[862]

+514+. Alleged survivals of totemism among civilized peoples. Though totemism, as a system
of social organization, is not recognizable in any civilized community, ancient or modern,
it is held by some scholars that the fragments or hints of such a system that are certified
bear witness to its former existence in these communities.[863]

+515+. In fact certain ideas and customs that occur in connection with savage totemism are
found abundantly among ancient Semites, Greeks and Romans, and in Celtic and Teutonic lands. Send him this - for storage - as my birthday present . To you, "He
does not wait my thanks, I sent that same hour, the brown Seem to Bromberg, the ice between
me and Uncle Arthur was broken.

We became good mates. The strict aunt was transformed under his influence to a more than lenient.
He achieved all that gave me pleasure, provided that it also corresponded to their wishes! Finally
I was allowed up into the mountains - to the year-long The goal of my desire! He was as enthusiastic
as daredevil climber who Guides and beaten paths scorned. At the Leonard Stein, behind village
Kreuth, the sharp and just like a church tower rising up to heaven, I had to climb test before he
me everywhere took out - to the mountains of the area first and then on and on. Exercise equipment
was his own invention, he make me shorts and gaiters - something unheard of at that Time. But that
was the aunt happened, they struggled only in the name of decency little, as he forbade the "tank".
"I sat up every time around the waist and let this inevitably sit while wearing the instrument of torture,
"he said, and I felt with joy the freedom heavy breaths.

On the wall we climbed a mountain first. It was then up only one shepherd and bar upstairs only
a small hut with a simple bed of hay. It will be sufficient to mention a few examples of the beliefs and usages that appear
to point to an original totemism.[864] Names of clans and tribes derived from animals or plants
are not uncommon: Hebrew Raḫel (Rachel, ewe), perhaps Kaleb (dog) and Yael (Jael, mountain
goat);[865] Greek Kunnadai (dog), and perhaps Myrmidon (ant); Roman Porcius (hog), Fabius (bean);
Irish Coneely (seal); Teutonic clan-names like Wolfing and the like. Belief in a general kinship
of men and animals existed among Semites, Greeks, and Romans. On the other hand, belief in
the descent of a clan from an animal rarely appears: it is apparently not found in the Semitic
area; the Ophiogeneis of Parium (in Asia Minor) are said to have regarded themselves as akin
to snakes and to have traced their genos (family or clan) to a hero who was at first a snake;[866]
the Myrmidons, according to one tradition, were transformed ants, and some of the Irish Coneely
clan are said to have been changed into seals. Transformations of men into animals are common
in Greek mythology. Taboos of certain foods were observed abundantly in the ancient world:
by Egyptians,[867] Hebrews,[868] Greeks,[869] and Romans,[870] and by Celts.[871] Among the
various omen-giving animals some may have been totems. Solemn annual sacrifices, followed by
mourning for the victims, were performed in Egypt,[872] and the slaying of the sacrificial
animal was treated as murder in various Greek cities.[873] Living animals were worshiped in
Egypt, and everywhere in antiquity gods assumed animal forms, and certain animals were sacred
to certain gods. Worshipers clothed themselves in the skins of sacrificed animals in Egypt,
Cyprus, and Rome.[874] Tribal marks and ensigns were sometimes derived from figures of animals.[875]
Finally, there are traces, in the early history of the ancient civilized peoples, of the form
of social organization with which savage totemism is found associated.[876]

+518+. It is possible that such facts as these may point to a primitive totemistic stage of
ancient civilized society. But it is to be noted that the usages in question almost all relate
to the general sacredness of animals (or of plants), not to their specific character as totems.
They occur in lower tribes in cases where totemism does not exist.[877] Animal clan-names and
tribe-names, belief in kinship with animals and plants and in descent from them, exogamy, transformations,
refusal to eat certain animals except ceremonially, apologies for killing them, omens derived
from them, worship of animal-gods, incarnations of gods in animals, animals sacred to gods,
tribal marks derived from animals--all these are found in such diverse social combinations
that it is impossible to infer merely from the occurrence of this or that custom the existence
of the peculiar form of social organization to which the name 'totemism' proper is given above.
The same remark holds of inferences from the general constitution of early society; a custom
of matrilineal descent, for example, by no means carries totemism with it.

+519+. The evidence for the existence of totemism among the ancient civilized peoples, consisting,
as it does, of detached statements of customs that are found elsewhere without totemism, is
not decisive. Animal-worship has played a great rôle in religious history, but the special
part assigned to totemism has often been exaggerated. It has been held that the latter is at
the base of all beliefs in the sacredness of animals and plants, or that certain usages (such
as those mentioned above) are inexplicable except on the supposition of an original totemism.
These positions are not justified by known facts, and it will conduce to clearness to give
totemism its distinct place in that general regard for animals and plants of which it is a
peculiar part.

+520+. Totemistic forms of society, as far as our present knowledge goes, are found only among
the lower peoples, and among these a perplexing variety of conditions exists. As our review
of what may be called totemistic features shows,[878] the one permanent element in the relation
between men and nonhuman, nondivine objects is reverence for these last on men's part; and
the conception of an alliance, defensive and offensive, between the two groups has been proposed
above as an additional differentia of totemism, a sense of kinship being involved. If we further
add the condition that the social organization (not necessarily exogamous) must be determined
by this alliance, we have all that can safely be demanded in a definition of totemism; but
as much as this seems necessary if totemism is to be marked off as a definite institution.

+521+. From the point of view of religious history the important thing in any social organization
is its character as framework for religious ideas and customs. If the central social fact is
an intimate relation between a human group and a nonhuman class of natural objects, then conceptions
regarding this relation may gather about it, and these will be as various as the tribes of
men. The elements of social and religious institutions spring from the universal human nature
and attach themselves to any form of life that may have been suggested by circumstances. Thus
the term 'totemism' may be used loosely to denote any combination of customs connected with
the idea of an alliance between man and other things, and the alliance itself may exist in
various degrees of intimacy. The restricted definition suggested above is in part arbitrary,
but it may serve as a working hypothesis and as a norm by which to estimate and define the
various systems or cults involving a relation between human groups and individuals on the one
side and nonhuman things on the other side.

+522+. Conditions favorable and unfavorable to totemistic organization. The questions whether
totemism was the earliest form of human social life and whether existing freer forms are developments
out of definite totemism may be left undetermined. Data for the construction of primitive life
are not accessible, and how far decay or decadence of institutions is to be recognized must
be determined in every case from such considerations as are offered by the circumstances. We
may, however, distinguish between social conditions in connection with which some sort of totemism
flourishes and those under which it is nonexistent or feeble; we may thus note unfavorable
and, by contrast, favorable general accompaniments. These may be roughly described as economic,
individualistic, political, and religious.

+523+. Economic conditions. Of savage and slightly civilized tribes some live by hunting or
fishing, some are pastoral (nomadic or settled), some practice agriculture. Without undertaking
to trace minutely the history of these economic practices it may be assumed that they are fixed
in general by climatic and topographical conditions. Where food is plentiful, thought and life
are likely to be freer. In general, savage peoples are constantly on the alert to discover
supplies of food, and they show ingenuity in devising economic methods--when one resource fails
they look for another. Hunters and fishers are dependent on wild animals for food, and stand
in awe of them. The domestication of animals leads men to regard them simply as material for
the maintenance of life--the mystery that once attached to them vanishes; they are considered
not as man's equals or superiors but as his servants. The same result follows when they are
used as aids in tilling the soil or in transportation. Agricultural peoples also have generally
some knowledge of the arts of life and a somewhat settled civil and political organization,
and these tend to separate them from the lower animals and to diminish or destroy their sense
of kinship with them.

+524+. We find, in fact, that in many cases totemic regulations are less strict where the food
supply is plentiful and where agriculture is practiced. The correspondence is not exact--other
considerations come in, such as isolation and the unknown quantity of natural tribal endowments;
but the relation between the economic and totemic conditions is so widespread that it cannot
be considered as accidental. And
the gloss? How quickly saw the too-sharp mind that he was nothing but tinsel, - Rockets raining
down and shine, and if they are glows, there is still much darker than before! -

I have maintained that science, like a forbidden love affair - the remains for me. I the art
of love, just shy and distant to the Hehre not with my bungling of , Soil - the remains for
me. This may satisfy those luxury animals among the people, by the Do nothing but enjoy life,
- those who are so hollow that they can always receive. But I wanted to create! - Why I live at
all? I would miss someone who would a gap, stay if I were not? My parents, my sister, my friends
would . Mourn How long? I'm all remained foreign to them! Who will really only miss? A good father
- a devoted, caring mother! -

Ugh, you cried, - fast, laugh, put on the mask - who shows because
nowadays his face?

There were the folds, too many tears!

Forgive me - I wrote a novel idea in chapter. In the next letter you shall hear how wonderful,
I amuse myself!

                                                

                                                     Happy New Year! - By
the way, a magnificent phrase, with which you want to be the 'lucky'
can hang around.

Your Alix.

Münster, 30 1. 89 Dear Matilda!

A carnival, which makes me barely catch his breath, the cause of my long silence. I want him with great,
enjoy to the bitter dregs, because inevitably the last is for me. Either way, I leave the theater
not, except at the height of triumph. All evil spirits have again taken possession of me and
whip me forward on the Racecourse in the vanity in the face of fierce competition. The new
commander - the once all-powerful and feared military chief of the Cabinet, which the providence
of his cousins been to the twentieth member is - seem the lionesses of the old Berlin court
the scene have moved their operations here. A strange company: distinguished, blase, elegant,
hochnasig, in a strong random boyish, not without 'past'. These two latter properties are the
cause of their somewhat involuntary removal from Berlin, where it is a symbol of virtue and
piety. Now is not Munster but the place where Lieutenant knock the young ladies on the shoulders
and camaraderie with fresh smell of the stable and dirty boots to show up for women's breakfast. Short
- we will smoke out the strange birds already, and I do about what
I coquetry, to can apply spirit and toilets.

With the most brilliant gentleman of this carnival, Mr stone of Hesse, who recently became squadron
commander here, I concluded a defensive and Offensive alliance for this purpose. You do not need to
expel Cassandra - we like each other - Nothing!

There is an attraction between a man and woman, the mind and heart to do with anything has, I would
like to call them physical magnetism. It is not common, when one feels because the instinct
of nature can not be mean. Unfortunately for them is only because the sentimental Liebesgewinsel
our gilt-edged poet-lying and our education led us to have to clothe them from ourselves with false
perceptions. My fevered senses often attracted to people, of which mind and heart are repulsed.
And vice versa these are caught, where that feel almost disgust. I would be ashamed of instinct
and cover it with the fig leaf as a result hypocritical fanaticism - in what a wretched Marriages
I would have let me tie it! Perhaps the true, lasting love it all possible among the husbands, who know each
other completely, have themselves completely and still, a certain external force together.
Everything else is flirting - Sports, or any other foreign word ...
If I just do not have the fatal property, against any kind of respectable
bourgeois, government-sanctioned, to life for use on bottles drawn
feelings an invincible repugnance have to ... "

Towards the end of Carnival, Mr von Hagen, our First President, - a clever, fine, old man who
almost single, with which I might do a more serious conversation - a Dinner at which he me,
contrary to usual custom, with invited.

Young girls were so only to dance there; they therefore closed from anywhere on the occasions
when demands on the mind, instead could be made to the feet.

"You will now convert these Boeotian," I said our host, smiling, giving me Lord of Syburg, the District
introduced new hammer, he "views on women, has - well, you'll see! "

A large thin man gave me a stiff bow, and a few bright, well above Eyes looked at me seriously.
The first impression I received was almost hostile. But when we came into the conversation, he liked
me. His calmness, his knowledge, his varied Interests raised him above the average. He was
conservative to the finger tips, burst, and our views to each other constantly. But behind his
was such a well-established Conviction, that my own embarrassing confusion came to consciousness.
At bottom, I just sure of negation, the weakness of my position of
Mr Syburg seemed surprising to discover they gave him a superiority
that embarrassed in our distant traffic always was palpable.

He came the next day and then missing in any society. He made me to the court danced his way, almost
every cotillion with me and was always my table master.

"Now you're happy again a new 'stamp'," said my father, but while he otherwise tied to the same remark
angry accusations, he smiled, this time to do so. He teased me, deserter because I would go
over to the civil and well-told and sometimes by the great Possession of Syburger in Schleswig,
or by the minister portfolio, which the district administration has secretly wore in his pocket.
His mood made me soft, - the thought that perhaps in should be my
hand to make him happy, paralyzed my resistance.

It was I always Syburg against abrasion and lost more and more one of my mirth, because I I
watched all the time knew of him.

"You come to me like a high school graduate in the exam," said Hesse stone to me one day, the
was the only one, which displeased the development of things, and made no bones about it. In I still
agreed with him. He really throws me a formal review, I thought bitter. He often took on a lecturing
tone that could make me wild. And it grew his power over me. It impressed me that he never played
the cooing celadon, never added to my wishes, so, do some gentle criticism allowed, I acknowledge
the permission had. Year and a day before I wrote my cousin, "I need the admiration you say, - yes!
And yet I long for a man whom I do not submit, instead of subjecting
me, kiss me, not the humble hands, but my gentle and compassionate
moves and speaks to his heart: Now up from rest, you poor child, tired!

"

Only half the families, the nature alienated construct artificially a Weibesliebe, have the same
desires. The superiors they will, for blind faith and filial Vulnerability is her being content.
I helped the imagination, my desire fulfillment pretend, and though I was horrified often aware
that the natural instinct of me Syburg forced not to, but it lay between us like ice-cold
glacier water, then beat my wishes again and again over the bridges. Only at night avenged
the subjugated Nature to me. For hours I lay awake and fought with the warning voices of my
mind; only when the day dawned, I fell into fitful sleep. I heard from Servatii beat the hours,
the steady steps, I counted, that the items before the house continually went up and down, and
crept shivering under the covers when the mice that seemed indelibly, peeping rustled through
the hall. From childhood, I broke the Sweat off as soon as one of
the delicate gray creature came near me.

I was always thin and pale, and tired - always tired. The soft spring air, the remarkably early
this year drew forth leaves and flowers, I relaxed completely.

Syburg seemed my morbid weakness for female gentleness hold, the increased in his eyes my appeal.
I let it happen, that he regarded me almost as his Property treated. Hessenstein tried in
vain to call my resistance awake.

"You run into your eyes wide disaster," he once said, "never fit fire and water together. "But the water
clears from the fire," I replied with a sad smile, "and just that is it, what I need. "

It was late March, when Prince Sayn, commander of the amiable and indefatigable cuirassiers Arranger
of all parties, to dance to the eve of an imminent wedding a quadrille brought in a proposal.
The pairs were determined; Syburg course, was my partner. In one of the preparatory meetings
of the costume issue was discussed, and we had We have almost agreed to give the show the character
of a shepherd play, as my mother Hofkostüm the Rococo period was reasonable. The prince and his
wife, who wanted to dance and had the youthful garments have taken exception, voted her, since
no one raised an objection, the matter seemed settled. In the way home I first learned the reason
that my mother had chosen for their excitation.

"Your schweriner Pompadourkostüm you've only worn one time, "she
said, obviously satisfied," we save Now, thank God, every new acquisition.

"

"My Pompadourkostüm"

I was shocked and shouted fiercely: "Dear burn 'ego!"

"You're probably not angry right mind," replied Mom. My pallor made her first attention. "Oh
- why," she said slowly, such "a sentiment I would have not credit for. "I said nothing.

The first dance rehearsal but I did secretly with Hessenstein help the youth to my side. The
Lords declared that the Hofkostüme they are too costly, the young Girls that they are not the long
trains could suffer. It was a formal revolt.

Syburg was alone on the side of older participants and the MILF. "I know the reasons Your
mother, "he said to me quietly," and I do not understand how such a smart young lady how you
can participate in this childish commotion. "I was angry about the paternalism and even more on the
good understanding between Syburg and my mother, but the violence my resistance was broken and we
were outvoted.

And the evening came, where the old dress lay before me. A faint rose scent of jasmine from
the Wrinkles, and his ribbons and bows, its green leaves and red
roses looked at me like so many memories come to life.

In soft melodies rustle of silk, "O la marquise Pompadour - Elle connait l'amour - ". Through
bodices, clung tightly around my body, I felt the arm that I had once held so tenderly in itself.

"Hellmut,"
I moaned softly and burst into tears. The rock, which I before the grave chamber I had rolled up inside,
was blown up and where I imagined just fell dead, wild as a torrent life out.

"You crying?" My father stood before me. "There is nothing - Papa - nothing," I tried to calm
him, and hastily wiped his eyes and cheeks. He smiled lovingly: "Just be very still, my Alixchen
- everything - everything will be all right And when I, myself do not speak! convulsive sob
again, he pulled my hands from her face and said softly, "Syburg
was longer for me and - as an honorable man through and through -
first your parents asked if he could recruit up ... "I went to him
and stared in horror in the face.

"That should not offend you, my child - you should of course know nothing about it - The freedom
of the resolution you should be reserved only - "He shut me stirred in his arms - he was convinced
that we have quite comforted me - the good father!

He led me down to the car - my train rattled on the broad steps - outdoors right and left, were
the people to gaze at me, - I had this moment not ever been experienced? At that time - have
been wars in the white dress when I went to church, a vows, of which
my heart did nothing!

On the steps of the hotel took me a fraud. Hessenstein jumped to and supported me. At the same
moment Syburg was next to me. "Your lady awaits you," he said sharply and cool to my companion,
and obedient, I put my hand in his proffered arm.

And then we danced.

I was a machine that my feet moving to the beat, while my Soul was far, far away - or I was the little
mermaid, the incarnation in their every step that she did, had to pay with cutting pains? -
As was concluded Today, the fingers of my dancer for my hand - as
devil's claw, which I no longer wanted to let go of -, and so scorching
hot, blew his breath into my neck!

Anxiously avoided I have to look at him, I never saw him like when he danced, as if drawn on
the ball moving he, - oh, and now - today danced eerily another figure next to me -

The music struck up the last tour. I had to watch him over his shoulder, hitting a fan, with a
coquettish smile. And since I met his eye, and remained on the low-cut my dress stick - with
sultry, covetous lust -

Another bow, and swaying step, is left holding on to his finger tips,
the pairs of the hall.

My strength was gone. I asked Syburg to call my mother because I I felt ill and had to go home.
Regardless of all the astonished gaze, which I met, I took the mantle and stood on the stairs
when my parents took me caught up. Dressed as I was throwing, I'm at home on the bed. Mama I felt
the Pulse and sent for the doctor. "The usual springtime disease of young ladies," he said,
Send " She your daughter to the countryside. "With a feeling of liberation, I took the good advice
and introduced me sicker than I was to be able to just follow him
around.

       

It was the end of April then. The little princess Limburg occurred to me which I repeated after Hohenlimburg
invited. She was a charming mistress, but that's not quite equal origin because the company had
been treated by Minster bad. First from mere spirit of contradiction, then out of sympathy I had accepted
her eagerly and I gained their friendship. "Come now, I am" was thrilled their telegraphic
Answer to my question whether my visit would be their right.

* * * * *

The spring of the year 89 seemed to be all fantasy writers just want to. In pure Blue spanned
the sky day after day over the earth, and it sprouted and bloomed
all over, no barren corner of the Lenz suffered in his lavish mood.

On the first of May I drove over the hair down to Lennetal, shining like liquid silver, snakes
along the river between the mountains, doused him left and right, from grüngoldigem gloss in
soft lines limited. As far as the eye can see: forest and mountain, and high above the castle
with towers and Battlements, like a strong, defiant man armed protectors of this silent peace.
But the closer I came, the more shifted the image: wide and massive, the city stretched below
the Shore, as they would have created space with elbows and fists,
and hurt by the Crudeness of the intruder, who threatened his black
factory chimneys went up to her, the castle behind her dark trees.

Anna Limburg met me at the station. And her bright laughter and chatter accompanied our All the
way up, so that I had leisure, his eyes roam.

The city disappeared back into the depths, the higher we got, the more the mountains grew up:
there, the cone of milk and honey mountain of white stone with its jagged peaks, the giant
arch of Porte and far on the horizon the blue heights of the Ruhr. O, who would always remain
high above where no noise and no soot can penetrate!

The long arched doorway of the carriage rattled into the courtyard, the high walls, towers and enclosed
walkways. "Is not it beautiful here?" Anna smiled. "But with my'd Fritz ' I am also in a lumber-room
to be happy, "she added quickly, and flew to her husband the neck, which just occurred to us.

Quiet
days followed. From the gallery of the castle wall I dreamed for hours into the countryside; on
the terrace under the tall, budding Linden I was sitting where in the four old guns Recalled
time, as the counts of Limburg cause wars still independent and mint coins could, and foot,
in carriages and on horseback, we visited the area around it. There were still here World
secluded valleys, with lindenumgrünten farms, and steep hills, crowned with castles, the rungs of
age lived in families, and almost everywhere but roared the iron hammers, screaming the saws and
rattling the mills, and he wanted the ghosts of the past, they might
well be found only deep in the caves of the mountains.

Many sites remembered by name and legend to the gods of the ancients, to Wodan and Donar,
the struggles of the Romans the powerful people of Saxony, to Wittekind's futile struggle with the
mighty Karl and its submission to the cross and crown - but it lurked the greedy monsters
that new time in order to devour them all. Win custody of the factory chimneys rose up in
the Castle tower collapsed slowly.

I fled his sights and would have loved to spread iridescent wings of imagination run away from myself
into the sunny, glowing fairy kingdom, but the reality caught me again and again with their gray,
dense cobwebs.

My father wrote me almost daily, and rarely mention of his name remained Syburger Letters. "I
saw him at the last race in Hamm," it said recently, "he asked, full of sincere Participation by your being
and was glad of your well-being.

He hopes you in Brake shown at bottom mountain, the old gentleman Limburgs siebenzigjährigen birthday,
but celebrate safely. help "

That he so forcefully urged into my life and the considerations of reason, the feelings of filial duty,
the desire for content and purpose of life supported his wishes! This mysterious power of the
instinct that had torn me in Münster by his side, seemed to me even now to try to force their
will. "Get him out of the way - whispered" it to me. But I have always considered it my evil
angel, I did wrestle with the to have.

Too deep for me a mother had impressed one educational principle
that self-control with self-renunciation equated.

So I sat for the
next morning ready for departure at the breakfast table - "without
Mailaune," as Anna teasingly remarked, - as the servant of the Post,
"revolution" in the coal region was in bold letters at the top of
the circular blade, and my father wrote: "In Gelsenkirchen have made
a few silly rascals airs, and the carbon Fritzen now plead with shaking
Knees for military protection. Although some fear and a little spanking
the limbers, send the poor people for the good of their money bag
in the pits, would be completely healthy, had I already send a company
of three of ten to Gelsenkirchen, where the cuirassiers follow tomorrow.
I find such actions unworthy of a soldier ... "

"Too bad," said Anna
annoying. "Now it is with the whole mood over. In certain islands
(Mota and Motlav) of the Banks group, however, there exists, it is said, the belief that a
child is the object from which the mother received some influence at conception or at some
other period of pregnancy--the child resembles the object, and may not eat it if it is edible.[905]
The persons thus identified with a given object would, if united, constitute a group totemic
in the respects that they believe themselves to be one with the object in question and refrain
from eating it.[906] The totemic object is selected, in the case of every child, by the fancy
of the mother, and is, therefore, not inherited; totemic groups, thus, would be found distributed
through the larger groups (phratries or tribes), and might also gradually coalesce and form
local groups. If the belief in this origin of birth (identity of the child with some object)
were found to be widespread, and generally effective as the ground of early social organization,
it would furnish a satisfactory explanation of totemistic beginnings. But in point of fact
it has so far been found, in full form, only in a small region in Melanesia, and its history
in this region is not known; back of it may lie some other system of organization. And in this
region clan totemism is lacking or faint. Further testimony is needed before it can be accepted
as the solution of the problem of totemic origins.[907]

+549+. A similar remark must be made in reference to theories based on the belief that the
souls of the dead are incarnate in animals and plants. Such a belief is a natural outgrowth
from the conception of the identity of nature of human beings and animals, and it occurs in
so many parts of the world (Oceania, Africa, America) that it might naturally be regarded as
having been at one time universal, though it is not now found everywhere. Reverence for an
ancestor might be, and sometimes is, transferred to the object in which he is supposed to be
incarnate; from this object a man holds himself to be descended, and he refrains from eating
or injuring it.[908] This view, a combination of reverence for ancestors and reverence for
animals and plants, thus supplies two features of totemistic organization, but proof is lacking
that it is the basis of this organization. If it be the determining consideration in some cases,
there are many cases in which its influence is not apparent. There are myths tracing the totemism
of clans to ancestors having animal forms, but these myths are relatively late savage philosophical
explanations of existing institutions.

+550+. The relation of the individual patron and guardian to the clan totem has been variously
defined. Such a patron, it is sometimes held (obtained by a dream or a vision), descends from
the original possessor to his children (or, in a matrilineal system, to his sister's children),
and thus becomes the patron (the totem) of a family or kin; and a larger group, formed by the
union of several kins, may similarly have its protecting spirit. Cases in which descent is
through the mother here make a difficulty--a man's guardian spirit would not then be inherited.
Granting that the personal patron of a shaman or of an ordinary man may be inherited, such
inheritance appears to be of rare occurrence, and there is no trustworthy evidence that it
ever leads to the formation of a totemic clan.

+551+. It is true there is a resemblance between a man's relation to his clan totem and his
relation to his personal guardian--in both cases the sacred object is revered and spared. It
is sometimes the case also (as, for example, among the Australian Arunta) that the totem comes
through an individual (the mother) and is not transmissible, and yet endogamous clans arise
by the union of persons having the same totem. But here the resemblance ceases--the Arunta
child's totem is determined for him before his birth, but a man chooses his personal guardian
for himself, and joins others having the same guardian, not in a clan but in a secret society.
Furthermore, the institution of the personal guardian is very rare except in North America,
and there flourishes in inverse proportion to the strength of clan life proper.

+552+. On the supposition of the primitive predominance of the rule of descent through the
mother individualistic theories of the origin of totemism, with one exception, are out of the
question--the totem is first chosen by a man, but children would have the totem not of the
father but of the mother. The exception is the conceptional theory, in which the totem is determined
by the mother--especially the Mota (Banks Islands) form, in which the choice of a sacred object
by the woman is unlimited. In a small community a certain number of women would, however, choose
the same object, and thus totemic groups would arise. Come with me today - I'm a better Cicerone bohemian as your host just! Moreover - she looked
me up beneath the light from top to bottom - "will I make you a sensation. "

Up to our goal of a small wine bar in Frederick town, they told me the her own sparkling vivacity
of all the free spirits, which I would find. "The large ...«, "the ingenious ...«," the only
...«, - these adjectives accompanied her name, which I was not well known.

As we entered, proposed a thick smoke cloud toward us, a few lamps, a few Points of light shone
through a burning cigarette. A chorus of chattering voices made understand every word. Only when
we stood in the circle of light the gas flames, stopped the Society. The gentlemen got up and
surrounded us. They smelled of brandy, - involuntarily I stepped back a pace. They heard my name.
"You must be crazy, Julie!" growled a male voice, and put his arm around her waist. I sat outside
in a corner. After a while I seemed to forget, and I felt like a spectator in front of the Stage.
It was certainly an interesting spectacle piece I saw, and man's own Art, who played in it.

At the foot of a great man tiefbrünetten to the gradually accumulated
the empty bottles, sat a woman with pale blond hair crown on the head
make.

That had the Danish his countess, who had kidnapped the "satanic" poet, as he called him the Déry.
If he spoke, she looked attentively at him, silent and the closest ones.

Yes - as I was saying - - "he said with a sharp Slavic accent -" what
- ?

What was it but He "is red wine poured into the glass - a few drops splashed on Women to his
feet on the white forehead, - he forgot to drink and stared at her, "how beautiful that is,
the thorns have wounded your invisible ring up - like a ruby ​​lights your royal blood ...
"

"To damn what her silent, he shouted a moment later and rushed the wine down, "what is that to
you rascals!" The others laughed.

"You want to portray us have your hero," someone said.

"My hero," he began again, "that one guy be! No waschlappen tearjerker, of the women adores,
but one, a real grip, as I "- his huge fist clutching the arm of the blonde woman who jumped
painful - "none that the lame crutches give the blind and glasses, but one that pushes aside,
what stands in his way. Or do you think the mob was to us something better value? Believe me, if
we do not rise come the strong, the hard-hearted, then the worms, the boy throws like rabbits,
we eat. Help the weak, her whines with the diluted blood of Christians
in the Veins?

No, I say give the coup de grace to the weak so the strong have space! "

I was not longer. "It must, however, prove first, who are the strong," I cried.

"Prove? No, most beautiful woman - if we manage to know of ourselves, "he said, was up and came
towards me, - he staggered a little - "You are so one that sacrifices
- Of humanity - the ethics - shame!

With such a face and form of such - " his large hand stretched out, I gave her in terror - "you
should assert itself, - Give happiness and love - that's more than
pamphlets - and - and - have children - "

He fell like a felled tree of length on the ground. I headed quickly to the door. Juliane Déry came
after me and pushed her glowing face tight against mine.

"So stay here - beautiful - best," she flattered - I felt her hand on my Hip. "Is not he great?
- Glorious? And now it is only beautiful - come on!

Come on! - Let our friends are - "She tried to kiss me. I shook her off. "Arrogant fool - "She
gritted.

"She - she has no heart - no heart - like all the - the grandstand women," the drunk muttered,
who had sat up half way.

I ran out like hunted and jumped into the next car. Why do I only broke sobbing the pillows
together, - why?

Quietly, I crept into the apartment, in my room.

       For the first time I kept George, what I had seen, only by the evening
I told Polenz and the people there, "even are not our own.

"

He hardly listened, his thoughts were with the letter, which he rolled between the fingers and gave
me a smile.

"Here we will find ours," he said.

It was an invitation to a party Kommers "our esteemed fellow-Friedrich
Engels Honor, "signed by the members of the party executive.

"You want to go?" Asked I am astonished, "as a Prussian university professor?"

"The joy I will not miss me, once part of life in it! - And the Collar,
it will not cost!

"

* * * * *

A large hall. Green garlands, stained with red flowers floated in the circular arc Galleries,
from one other column. "Workers of all countries, unite!" Lit against it in giant gold letters
on red background of the gallery wall down the new comer. In laurel bushes shone the white busts
of Marx and Lassalle.

When we arrived, was the Giant space already filled Resistant: men in festive skirt, women and
girls in colorful blouses and transfigured bright dresses, their faces, like that of the children
of Christmas anticipation. A Youthful radiance beaming from every eye, and blurred the furrows,
the sufferings of trains Kummer wrinkles, and gave the early bleached cheeks the blush of the children
of fortune.

Curiously, all eyes were on us: the pale man in a wheelchair and the young Woman at his side. The
old Bartels took us up to the front where tables covered in the Seats were reserved for the guests.

"The
fact that I still feel - Professor - the experience still," he repeated
again and again thick with tears of joy in the small, twinkling eyes.

Roaring cheers shook the air. - All rose - waved their hats and waved with the tissues - on the
tables and on the shoulders, the children were raised, so that their heads like flowers of dense
meadow towered over the masses. And the broad center aisle, to the right and left, an impenetrable
wall, the amount accumulated, they all came, the old fighter, whose
name a bloody terror to some, a symbol of future happiness for the
other was.

My eye was only on the four progressive-like, which I always around me call heard a whisper: Liebknecht
- Bebel - Auer - Engels. Great was the one with gray Beard, high forehead, witty sparkling eyes, a
fine train of sarcasm about the mouth, small the other, full of unruly strand of hair that fell to him again
and again to the front, so that his views are even more veiled - that strange look, as it only
poets and dreams. A wide, bright head was the third German proud of the strong Shoulders, a few
eyes that sparkle certainly combative to understand how the old chiefs,
looked over the crowd.

Front, however, went the old celebrated guest with a smile so full
stirred goodness and joyful love of humanity, as if all his children
to him entgegenjauchzten.

       

Singing, music, welcome speeches alternated with each other, like a big family party. Nothing pathetic,
but nothing that was reminiscent of riots and revolutionary terror, disturb the mood. The red
of the many loops and flags in the hall seemed now only the color of joy to be, not that of
the blood. The 'freedom', which occurred with the Phrygian Black cap on his curly head, chanted
their verses as a schoolboy, was more like a Messengers of spring as the Revolution.

Down in the hall, as stated in the stands there was nothing but happiness.

welcomed from one table to another, the friend, and he, the hero of the day, urged with his friends
again and again through the ranks and shook the hands of old comrades from the hard times of
persecution. They also came to us and sat down to George's wheelchair and twitching his lips
and his eyes were moist with emotion. With an old-fashioned, chivalrous Bow angel gave me some flowers
from the wealth that had been given him.

"A dangerous sign, "laughed Liebknecht and pointed to the red carnation below. "One of the victory,
I hope, "I replied.

We walked quietly home. A great joy filled us.

* * * * *

On a gray, cold, damp December day it was. The kingdom house was to be inaugurated. On Brandenburger
Tor, I was to collect impressions for, what I wanted to write.

They laughed - Talked - her mocked all around me: from the "summit of the vulgarity," said one,
- So called in Italy had recently SM Wallot building - empty of the
board of outside told the others that "the inscription on the German
people," probably in vain would wait, - 'the Junkers and priests -
is instead read, "added a snappy Third party.

"If we overthrow the template det Janze thing will fall over non," whispered it close to me.
The tight police lieutenant who was here guard turned, frowning the head. In an open car drove
over the vote: civilians with shiny cylinders on the head and colorful
ribbon in his buttonhole, on the trains the expression of serious
importance Clergyman in the black cassock with round shiny faces,
reserve officers, which the tight collar, the purple blood in the
forehead operation, and their colorful skirt in pleats stretched over
the chest and abdomen.

"Therefore they must all stand at attention before the Supreme War
Lord - The MI Rs - "the same voice whispered as before.

Excited, the police blew up again back and forth - their horses urged anxiously aufkreischenden
viewers to the side.

From the castle the Linden trotted down a squadron of Garde du Corps in uniform with shiny fluttering
troop. Suddenly a rattling shock - a cry - and rolled two riders under their horses.

At the same moment a car was approaching: the Emperor! Silently - expectant - hard to believe
that A few hats flew from the heads - the crowd waited, - varying with totblassem face taught
one of the fallen soldiers on their knees - in front of him hit the
Hooves of the four horses already on the pavement.

The bronze face of the monarch appeared seconds - a single cold glanced the Garde du Corps -
and raced past the car - the hostile-silent crowd behind him.

Excited with suppressed wrath flew apart the people. That was, it seemed to me that right start
for the upcoming drama: the struggle to overthrow the template, the first Bill the people's
representatives in the new house was present for decision.

In warlike pomp, it was now ordained, - times of war were impending.

On the way through the damp misty Tiergarten my plan was prepared, and before George back from
the university, was my "explanation" already on his desk. "In the name of the female sex, we protest
against the overthrow of women signed template " she began, and then it said: "'insulting remarks
against marriage and family' at risk the moral life of the people,
not so much as the legal sanctioning of immorality; and not through
'demonstrations' are 'large populations' seduced into believing that
the foundations of our lives to 'untruth and injustice' are based,
but by a Legislation that half the human race, the mothers of citizens,
with infants, Madmen and criminals on the same level and economic
conditions that Millions of women in the struggle for existence drive
to destroy the family life, marriage Shake ... "

       

I sent the same evening my statement with the request for signatures to the Press. No sooner
was published, as Uncle Walter surprised me with his visit. "I come to warn you, "he said,"
you have an eye on you, you know the police headquarters your secret relations with the Socialist
Party, and now in the Reichstag, the Minister of Home Affairs told me in confidence that if
the coup template or the sense should connect to their similar law in force, you will be among
the first to like this be taken, - provided, of course - that he "spoke slowly, stressing each
syllable - "That you're not smart enough to pursue other avenues before."

"Thank you for your friendship, dear uncle, - but that I will follow your advice, you will hardly
expect me. "

"So we want anything to do," he cried, and fell with a crash behind him the door shut.

Strange - he had never been close to me, and yet cramped in that moment
my heart together, - a piece of the childhood home he took away with
him.

What is the Father say, I'm afraid. But he did not, he wrote me two lines with no address and
signature: "After your last consultation, you will not you be surprised if we you a Time stay away.
We hope to God that He may guide you back on the right path!

... "

* * * * *

Frosty the east wind swept through the streets, fine, shimmering ice crystals dancing in the air, and frost
the zoo transformed into a winter wonderland. Every morning I accompanied
Georg now in the university.

His lectures on social ethics filled the auditorium up to the farthest corners excited and
passionate people - old and young - men and women - welcomed him
with violent Beifallsgetrampel.

Behind the desk was none of to see him as the pale, dark-framed head with the bright eyes of
children.

He said, as he had never spoken, he castigated the sins of capitalism
with a sharpness as they had been heard in these areas never before,
and defended the rights of women and the workers with an enthusiasm
that tore everything away with it.

"The belief that we are facing profound changes, in a world turning, as the Humanity has not
experienced any, is a belief that taking more and more areas ... Now is no time to contemplative
dream ... "- His voice rose in an unusual Power and got a sound like a deep bell. "... We
must be clear about the State of things and be awake to the needs of the day ... We must be
aware of where we belong ... "

"He heard his death sentence speaks ..." I whisper softly. Still,
it was church. It was introduced by Chair lifted down, began to move
his wheelchair, greeted with shy reverence his students.

Hissing
the wind hit him in the face, hot as we stepped into the open, shivering
and he pulled the fur collar higher. In vain I begged him to get out
of his open Wheelchair to be lifted in a closed car. All the way through
the linden trees by the zoo, the Lützowplatz we struggled with difficulty
against the snow storm.

In front of our home a gentleman walked up
and down, tall and slender, finely chopped head thrown back, the beard
boldly swirled in the air, - "Hessenstein I exclaimed surprised!.

!
"No one else, ma'am," he said and kissed my hand - I'm waiting for
you - I could not leave Europe without taking leave of you - "

We
went together in our apartment. George looked strange asking the guest,
the I so joyously welcomed.

"You leave Europe?" I asked, "Why?"

"Since
my military experience in the mining district was not more probably
in the colorful Rock - "he replied as his eyes surprised embarrassing
for seconds between George and I flew back and forth - "and the newly
opened view, sometimes even to parents and siblings can shoot to have
to have my military ambition not essential can increase. - - I have
a brother in Java - there I like. Actually, even not a desirable goal!
But - what can you do - if you can not summon the courage, to go under
the Reds! "

"Then your choice certainly the best," said George with
a hostile field. Red spots burned him on the cheek bones.

Visibly
hurt, rose Hessenstein.

+573+. There is similar uncertainty in the case of the Queensland practice, when a man, on
lying down at any time or rising in the morning, whispers the name of the animal after which
he is called or the name of the animal belonging to his group-division, in the belief that
it will give him success in his affairs;[923] here the animal is not a clan totem, and the
evidence does not show that it has come from such a totem--it may be a sacred animal that has
somehow been brought into special connection with the man or with his group. Personal guardians
that confer magical powers on a man do not here come into consideration.

+574+. The relation between totemism and the practice of magic appears to be essentially one
of coexistence in a community. The two belong to the same stage of culture and the same order
of ideas; but the fact that each is found without the other shows that neither is dependent
on the other. Naturally they are sometimes combined, as sometimes happens in North America
and particularly in Central Australia (where every totemic clan is charged with certain magical
ceremonies); yet this close alliance is rare. Magical practice rests on a conception of man's
relation to nature that is distinct from the conception of kinship between a human clan and
a nonhuman species or individual object.

+575+. Secret societies sometimes perform magical ceremonies; but such societies are not totemic--either
they have risen above the totemic point of view, or they have sprung from ideas and usages
that are independent of totemism proper.[924]

+576+. It is difficult to find a clear case of the offering of religious worship to a totem
as totem. There are the ceremonies performed by the Australian Warramunga for the purpose of
propitiating or coercing the terrible water snake Wollunqua.[925] This creature is a totem,
but a totem of unique character--a fabulous animal, never visible, a creation of the imagination;
the totem proper is a visible object whose relations with human beings are friendly, the Wollunqua
is savage in nature and often hostile to men. He appears to be of the nature of a god, but
an undomesticated one--a demon, adopted by a tribe as totem, or identified with a previously
existing totem. The situation is an exceptional one and cannot be regarded as evidence of general
totemic worship.

+577+. The question whether a totem ever develops into a god is a part of the general question
whether a sacred animal ever becomes a god.[926] The complications of early ideas and customs
and the paucity of data for the formative period of early religion make an answer to these
questions difficult. As far as regards the evolution of the totem into a true divine figure
the evidence is not decisive. The identification of heroes or gods with animals, their transformations
into animals, and their incarnations in animal forms may, indeed, suggest such an evolution.
Thus, in the island of Yam (between Australia and New Guinea) two brothers, Sigai and Maiau,
have their shrines, in which they are represented by a shark figure and a crocodile figure
respectively, and to them food is presented, songs are sung, dances are danced and prayers
are offered. Other heroes, Kwoiam (a totem-bringer), Sida (an introducer of the arts of life),
Yadzebub (a warrior), and some unnamed are revered in islands of Torres Straits.[927] In the
Rewa district in Fiji every village, it is said, has a deity, and these deities have the power
of turning into animals, which are then not eaten--that is, it may be supposed, the god is
a developed totem.[928] In the Wakelbura tribe of Southeast Australia the totem animal is spoken
of as "father," a title frequently given to clan gods. Household gods are considered to be
incarnate in animals and other objects in some of the Caroline Islands, in Tonga and Tikopia,
and in Samoa, and in these islands, except Samoa, the people are supposed to have descended
from the animals in question. Similar ideas seem not to exist in the Americas or in Africa;
in India the influence of Hindu cults has largely effaced or greatly modified non-Aryan usages
so that their original form cannot generally be determined.[929]

+578+. The cases just mentioned are susceptible of other explanations than that of an evolution
from totem to god. The history of the cult of heroes in Yam and other Torres Straits islands
is obscure, but from known facts the indications are that the hero figures have arisen independently
of the totem figures and have been, by a natural process, identified with these.[930] The peculiarity
of the Rewa deities is that they assume animal forms at will, and such animals, not being eaten,
are held to be totems. Whether totems or not they are sacred and might easily be identified
with gods who stood alongside of them; an obvious explanation of this identity would be that
the god assumed the form of the animal.[931] A similar explanation may be given of incarnations
of gods in animals--a metamorphosis is a temporary incarnation. The Samoan Moso is incarnate
in half a dozen different objects, and some deities are incarnate in men. As for the title
"father," it belongs of course to the object from which a clan is supposed to be descended.

+579+. That night, when my heart was dead, They had
left me well. They are only living faithfully.

"Is not it strange that you can hold all my body for myself?" Wrote I to my cousin, "or do you mean,
I lived after I full sail out into life went to discover a new world, and now drifting in the
middle of the ocean and found nothing have as the eternal monotony of the waves! - - - Only an
understanding I am now richer made: that the happiness to which we contribute so unruly desire, nothing
is as stunning. Stun through work, pleasure, love, religion and art by stun your consideration,
the thought of all the misery in the world, mental and physical well-stun, the memory of self-inflicted
pain, failed hopes of one of these drugs, and You will be 'happy'. The younger you are, the
easier it WORKS, but it is unfortunately as with morphine: the more one needs it, the less
it works ... "

       

* * * * *

I was very reluctant to Bromberg. I was afraid. Before Papas bad temper, in the desert town. In
one direction I was pleasantly surprised: my father was in the best Humor and told me in the
first ten minutes of being together, that his position not a very pleasant and independent, but
due to the war clouds indicating would be on the Russian border a very interesting. But were
in relation to the small town my worst expectations. There are some who are full of tradition; the gabled
houses, towers, churches, city walls constantly tell their old stories, and we dream and fantasize
finally so happy with them that we the outside world almost forgotten, and there are others
that are warm and toasty on a broad protective mountain breast, a little river rushes and splashes at their
feet, and all around Mother Nature spreads her wunderlieblichstes Toys - there's also be good for
poor homeless wanderer, but where plague and Polish Business houses and walls crumble, the forests
were shaved and modern industry carelessly and indifferently built on straight roads barracks
and factories, there is quite actually the strangers who will never, ever the home. That the
old Fritz here the channel built, had joined the Vistula to the Oder, which he locks, with many
beautiful Replant trees had thanked him all that was wound up in Bydgoszcz, - this one Beauty of
the place made it only possible, here and there to breathe free.

As the animals adapt their shape and color of its surroundings, the people gradually take The mood
at their place of residence. A heavy gray-level, therefore, about the Bromberg sociability,
Even the violins Ball suffered a certain apathy. Here they danced tirelessly with an expectant
zeal, as if to finally obtain the pleasure yet. But it ran away again and again. The flirtation
was in full bloom, and the gossip even more - Bringing the people would also deal else to? It was
swarming with uniforms of all Type, but even the best cavalry colors could not retire the false
shine on of life to hide the. I associated a lot with young women, between me and the young Girl
was after all a friendly attitude. "Your life just disgusts me," wrote I Mathilde, "a little music,
a little painting, a little charity and this mask of the good society either nothing or a confused
mess of romance and oppressed small passions. Never a strong feeling, never a burning interest. Oh,
that you were cold or warm, "The women did have a purpose in life: her children, her Husband,
her home life, of course: time to think about their education, they did not have. How many the
elegant dinner in the toilet, pretending lust for life, had entered the ballroom, from the early
morning on the stove, but with this guy, the good-natured "girl for everything" as Assistance,
and washed in the evening secretly covered windows, the children wash themselves
 The objects affected by the conception of taboo are as various as the conditions of
human life--they include things inanimate and animate, and events and experiences of all sorts.
Sometimes the danger is supposed to be inherent in the object, sometimes the quality of dangerousness
is imposed on it or infused into it by some authority; but in all cases there is present the
force (mana) that, in savage theory, makes the external world a factor in human destinies.[939]
This force may be transmitted from one object to another (usually by contact[940]), and thus
the taboo infection may spread indefinitely, a silent and terrible source of misfortune, sometimes
to a single person, sometimes to a whole community. Ceremonies connected with taboo are designed
to protect against this destructive influence.

+587+. The principal taboo usages may be classed roughly under certain heads, which, however,
will sometimes overlap one another.

+588+. Taboos connected with the conception of life. For early man the central mystery of the
world was life, and mystery and danger attached to all things connected with its genesis, maintenance,
and cessation--to pregnancy, birth, death, corpses, funerals, blood. Against these things precautions,
in the form of various restrictions, had to be taken. Pregnancy was sometimes regarded as due
to supernatural agency, and in all cases was noted as a mysterious condition in which the woman
was peculiarly exposed to evil influences; she was sometimes required to keep her head covered
or to avoid moonshine, or to live separated from her husband.[941]

+589+. Care for women during pregnancy and after the birth of a child might be induced by natural
human kindliness. But certain usages in connection with birth indicate fear of superhuman dangers.
In many regions (Central Asia, Africa, Oceania, China) the mother is taboo for a certain time,
being regarded apparently as a source of danger to others, as well as being herself exposed
to danger. The child also is surrounded by perils. Mother and child are protected by isolation,
ablutions (baptism), amulets, conjurations, and by consecration to a deity.[942] The intimate
relation between father and child may make it necessary to impose taboos on the former--he
is sometimes required to go to bed (the couvade, or man-childbed), to abstain from work and
from certain foods held to be injurious, and to avoid touching weapons and other dangerous
things; thus, through the identity of father and child, the latter is guarded against the hostile
mana that may be lurking near. The seclusion of the mother sometimes varies in duration according
to the sex of the child; in most cases, apparently, the period is longer for a male child;[943]
in the Jewish ritual the period for the maid-child is twice as great (eighty days) as that
for the male;[944] the difference in the points of view, perhaps, is that the evil influence
may direct itself particularly against, or be more serious for, the male as socially the more
important, or it may be more dangerous for the female as the weaker.[945]

+590+. Taboos connected with death. The danger to the living arising from a death is of a twofold
nature: the corpse, as a strange, uncanny thing, is a source of peril; and there are possible
external enemies--the spirit that produced the death, and the ghost of the departed. Against
these dangerous things avoidance of the corpse is the common precaution--a dead body must not
be touched, or, if it is touched, he who touches must undergo purification.[946] Perhaps the
various modes of disposing of corpses (exposure, inhumation, cremation) were originally attempts
to get rid of their dangerous qualities; later other motives came in. The body of a suicide
was especially feared, and was staked down on a public way to prevent its reappearance; it
was perhaps the abnormal and desperate character of the death that produced this special fear.
The dread of a corpse is, however, not universal among savages--in many cases it is eaten,
simply as food or to acquire the qualities of the deceased, or for other reasons. It is feared
as having hurtful power, it is eaten as being sacred or helpful.

+591+. The house in which a death occurs shares the evil power of the dead body, and sometimes
must be destroyed, together with all its furniture, or abandoned or purified.[947] Death diffuses
its baleful influence through the atmosphere, making it unfavorable for ordinary work, which,
accordingly, is often then suspended for a time.[948] Seclusion is sometimes enjoined on widower
or widow,[949] and mention of the name of the deceased is forbidden--the identity of spouse
or name with the dead effects the transmission of what is dangerous in him. In another direction
the earthly dwelling of a dead person is protected--a curse is pronounced on one who violates
it.[950]

+592+. Taboos connected with woman and the relations between the sexes. Among many peoples
there is dread of the presence of women and of their belongings under certain circumstances.[951]
The ground of this fear may lie in those physiological peculiarities of woman which are regarded
as mysterious and dangerous, and the antagonism of feeling may have been increased by the separation
between the sexes consequent on the differences in their social functions and their daily pursuits.
Woman seems to move in a sphere different from that of man; she acts in ways that are strange
to him. Whatever its ground, the feeling of dread is a real one: a case is reported of a man
who, on learning that he had lain down on his wife's blanket, became violently ill.

+593+. Various restrictions are imposed on women at periods of sexual crisis. The girl on reaching
the age of puberty is generally (though not always[952]) immured, sometimes for weeks or months,
to shield her from noxious influences, human and nonhuman. During menstruation a woman is isolated,
may not be looked on by the sun, must remain apart from her husband, and her food is strictly
regulated.[953] It is not infrequently the case that certain foods are permanently forbidden
women, for what special reasons is not clear.[954] The rule forbidding a wife to eat with her
husband may have come originally from nonreligious social considerations (her subordination
to the man, or the fact that she belonged to a social group different from his), but in that
case it later acquired a religious character. Women have commonly been excluded in savage communities
from solemn ceremonies (as those of the initiation of males) and from tribal councils;[955]
such rules may have originated in the natural differentiation of social functions of the sexes
or in the desire of men to keep the control of tribal life in their own hands, but in many
cases the presence of women was supposed to vitiate the proceedings supernaturally. In industrial
enterprises, such as hunting and fishing, they are sometimes held to be a fatal influence.[956]
In family life a wife's mother was debarred from all social intercourse with her son-in-law.[957]

+594+. But the possibility of me weep, should be taken
from me. I saw stained in the morning, or showed dark edges on my eyes, so excited the most
violent anger of the aunt, - "a young girl has fresh and "Look rosy, she explained, and since
the mere command nothing would help, she came in the evening, when I was in bed, repeatedly checked
into my room to see if I was asleep. So used I am soon to cry, the great art inside. I had enough
reason to do so. It passed Not a day without that I would have been scolded: when at their gloved
fingers, with the they went over each bar in my room, dust-like was, if not my tie properly
was bound, my gloves were not stretched out carefully in the drawer when her sharp eyes discovered
a stain on the dress, or even at a time when I read or wrote that I should fill stockings! Letters
that had not the mark of the parents, were her first open and read. Thus they learned that I my
cousin Mathilde my pain had complained. "It is very sad that your spiritual needs into account as
little are and your talent does not recognize, "she had written to me then, mockingly read the
front of my aunt's place and then declared: "I forbid any correspondence, except of with your relatives.
That I am still sure your stupid pride secretly supported is, rather than you realize at last how
much you still lack, but a good average to achieve. "She omitted nothing to help me to this realization,
and illuminated most glaring weaknesses all my training: the musical, the foreign language, practical.
I tortured myself daily for hours at the piano, English and French Conversation classes changed
from next to cooking and sewing lessons. A few examples of the model perfect young ladies I have
been assigned because of a good example for traffic. They could all in the perfection that I could
not, they sang and played, embroidered and tailor, and their toilet was always impeccable.
Of course, I found it horrible and I always dreamed more in the tragic role of a cursed princess.

I
was smart enough to quickly view, which is the driving force of the action of my aunt me was: a limitless,
of all people who approached her, carefully nourished vanity. As her house and its park, the most
beautiful, her carriage and her toilets Augsburg was the most elegant, so should their niece
- measured by the scale of Augsburg - be the most accomplished young
lady.

It was an intense spiritual and physical transformation to do so to achieve this goal.

If the good society represented in northern Germany by the old knightly nobility with his conception
of equality, with its church-orthodox and politically conservative Sentiments at that time
expressed his disdain for any profession that is outside the career of the landowner, the officer
or the higher state and court officials, was they sat down here,
true to the traditions that made up the old and the new patrician,
which belonged with few exceptions, still bourgeois professional spheres.

At the time when the Ancestors of the Prussian Junker against heathens and Turks fought, negotiated
the progenitor Fugger with canvas sail, the merchant vessels of the Guelphs to the West Indies, sat the
first Stetten in the goldsmith trade. Their descendants regarded the Fröhlich Forster and Schätzler
- industrial barons of the nineteenth century - as belonging to himself, while the officer
had, as such, nor a social status like the Trooper of the Middle Ages.

As great as the contrast between the background was the economic interests which in my former
sphere of life had been essentially agrarian and industrial-scale exclusively here. The various
political position followed from it: the good company of Augsburg was National Liberal, and
leaned to the political from the religious orthodoxy. A livelier Interest in art and science
went hand in hand, and was the General Newspapers and the men who came through it to Augsburg
get busy, always.

Maintained you are in the locks of literature and theater of East Prussia, it was only under
the It was in Augsburg good form, face angle of greater or lesser amusements to new things and to judge
from an artistic point of it.

The large middle road, from right and left each other on the people not muster the courage,
the path of their old view of the opposite border exceed, and baptized their own peace of mind
that road the "golden", was the Symbol of the whole spiritual life. In Prussia, it was avoided
to talk about serious issues, because it could explode each other's views and not for the good
form here was it as far as doing everything to mere objects of conversation.

It

was very difficult for me to learn, Civil housewife virtues, and even more difficult, those
deep-rooted pride to press down, which did not wanted to understand to a manufacturer or a banker
to be regarded as equal, so was the political and religious direction of the environment in line
with my development. And out of this page Augsburg took me and made me finally to the docile pupil
of my aunt.

No sooner had I outwardly remodeled enough - an artistic hair style and a Parisian Corset were
also the attribute of South German nobility, such as the smooth head and the German corset
that of northern Germany were - when I was in the circle of their relatives and friends was
introduced. What astonished me at first, was the certified wealth, great simplicity of the outer
life. In the old high-gabled house Stetten fruit market there was
even scrubbed floors and serving maids.

In the Renaissance furniture and darkening the white muslin curtains Gobelinvorhänge claimed here,
the slight Biedermeier chair into place. In the house of Schätzler whose magnificent rococo
hall, each royal palace would redound to the honor, the hostess baked the Christmas cake and even
made the fruit one. I forgot how gradually to turn up on like the nose, the combination of
hard work, Simplicity and wealth had little imposing, and the realization that it's out of
World of my previous environment nor were people that could "run it" was an epoch-making for me.
But even more surprising was the impression made by the intellectual life of me. One of the
most intimate in the house of my aunt was one of the chief editor of the Allgemeine Zeitung, Dr. Otto
Braun, the mayor of Augsburg, Louis Fischer, and the parish priest of St. Anna, Julius Haberland.
With a small group of other guests - from the strictly male youth was ruled out - they came regularly
once a week for us. The Music Hall, who with his gold ornaments and red silk furnishings the
brutal splendor of the Bavarian flavor King seemed to pay homage, was dedicated to the Wagner cult. In
the green Rokokoboudoir met the chattering, in the dark room under the library of the serious
high fan palm used Otto Braun read.

He was an extraordinarily lively stocky, short man, whose essential interests literary, were infectious
and his youthful enthusiasm for his favorite poet had to act. In spite of the counterweight of
aunt, my reading to the absolute and childlike wanted to limit, he understood it, my incoherent
tendencies in fixed paths to distract me and opened up areas of literature, to me, and then probably
the majority of the reading public, had remained completely alien. I had previously books fashion
writer, a Heyse, Dahn and Ebers, devoured devoutly, so I have now
the art of Gottfried Keller, Conrad Ferdinand Meyer and Marie von
Ebner-Eschenbach to Revelations.

That the very youngest brown blankly faced, against radical Foreigners, like Zola, Ibsen, and
some of the great Russians behaved could negatively on me the less disadvantage to act as the
entry already in its sphere of interest a major step forward.

was for the field of politics and religion the same as for the literature. When Ludwig Fischer,
who as an influential member of the National Liberal Party at the height of his parliamentary
Fame was his views developed, it appeared to me that the conservative policy always that of
a decent human dignity had been presented alone, almost as revolutionary. The memory of the revolutionary
liberalism of 1848, of me in history class Once smitten, had reinforced this impression, understanding
of free trade and protectionism I had nothing, so by the defection of the majority of liberals
in that protective tariff period Bismarck no idea, but felt that I heard an inner relief:
there were People, there was a large party that held up the ideals
of freedom and human rights, I could confess to them, without, as
usual, to my family to heavy resistance encountering.

"I can not be conservative," I wrote in the spring of 1881 my cousin, with me, since my aunt met
the good results noted their education, could correspond again, "that would be the same as when I used to corporal
punishment and would meet the suppression of all scientific progress. The National Liberals, is
not a caste, and their outdated privileges, but the interests of all the people represents
that promote scientific knowledge is always ready, and therefore of religious orthodoxy energetic faces, matches
my views. "

The liberal church to learn the know I was even more interesting, and in Augsburg generally
prevailed in the circle was my aunt by the pastor of their congregation on the represented the most
impressive. The Sunday church attendance - in this case as a natural Duty at home - had therefore
nothing more terrifying to me. If Julius Haberland Apostle beautiful figure appeared in the
pulpit and his sonorous voice of the church with harmony filled, I was captivated from the
first moment: here lacked any dogmatic harshness; Understanding and mercy I found here for human
error and mistakes, I find nothing in Poznan had met as a condemnation and hardness.

All wounds were opened again, the religious struggles had beaten me, they were pasted over
only tedious, but not been cured, and I longed more than ever after
Healing.

At my urgent request, the minister asked my aunt, my private religious education grant, he was ready
for it, so I went for a quiet couple of times each week in the House in Fuggerstraße. In his
sunny study room, I sat the equally gracious man with his, of blond beard framed trains and the
white, narrow, well-kept hands over many hours, and very, very slowly, he succeeded in my anxious
closed Inside all my doubts and despairs elicit. His Christianity, the religious Believe much
more in the sense of trust, instead of in the of the for-true behavior, conceived, had first to
me, looks like entering into the wild on a man who between the walls close streets to live long
been used to.

My faith was right to exist, and I was a Christian. I needed not in the divine inspiration of
the Bible, the miracles of the Old Testament, the virginity to believe the mother of the Saviour, and
yet was not out of the church outcasts. As a sacred Symbol could be interpreted that I was obliged
literally to be true, - Therefore I had sworn before the altar, not perjury! My mind calmed down
there. I was also the "golden" middle road reached in which so many, even old People go who need
to be hypocrites, but dominated by that most dangerous Feature of our mental powers - the comfort
- as make a point, where the actual Work should begin first.

But the satisfaction of the mind was on the duration of the hunger of the mind not . Hide It remained
empty for me, as much empty at the time, where the old strict God
the Orthodox Church is not in such a mild, almost disappearing behind
distant nebulae fatherly old man had changed. wrapped in cold shiver
of horror me this dismal Wilderness, the more I long in the brilliant
flowers at King Square House, lived the more I am under the restless
hands forming the aunt of the ideal form which it hovered, approached.

Never let me time for myself, my day was, what the workload and the type of recovery relates,
as closely divided, that left no room for my personal tastes remained. If I but once in the long hours I
sat with any hand, the figures overpowered my dreams and I was unable to resist their inevitable
that I secretly at night, it resorted to pen and ink in order to throbbing pulses in words and
take rhymes, which filled me, I could be sure that the aunt and the maid my strictly forbidden
deeds discovered. "Useless fantasies I had to master, had well sealed, so family events offered
an opportunity to be enough.

Once, in the spring of wars, when the aunt had a medical consultation
to Munich have to drive.

Since I used the permission of a visit with a friend, to be alone Heart's content to tarry
in the city. Following a deep inner need, which of artistic and religious motifs strange composed,
I was already a habit made to stand at each exit in any of the old churches, where I in the incense-scented
Moments of twilight collection was at least quiet. Today I was allowed to just a few hours , Treat
after I shortened the visit possible. The portal of the cathedral was open, I stepped closer,
and multitudes of little children wore long colorful garlands of spring flowers get in to
the many hundreds of years of columns and altars to the Virgin Maiandacht to decorate. Royal and
loving at the same time it seemed from the pillar of the great gate to all the young believers
herabzulächeln. Inside, in the vast halls, so wonderfully clear and tell more vividly than any learned
book, from the development of German art, died away the many tripping feet, and it was very
quiet. The bright afternoon sun shone through the old stained-glass windows, so that Daniel
and Jonas, Moses, and David again Life seemed aglow. In contrast to this light, the black shadow
of the dark transept, the more deeply, and how after Florschleiern gray shimmered the grave
stones in the aisles. Dull cold winter air still hovering around
the walls.

The bright ambulatory I should therefore step from which the children flocked towards me straight,
they had it already Its fresh party dress done, and it drove me to see how the mother of God
as pagan goddess of spring had sacrificed the first fruits of spring. Since stopped in front
of my foot a stone tomb: a skull with wide mouths and empty eyes, grinned at me, elongated, the parched
body stretched on the sarcophagus, of toads and snakes gnawed all around horrible. Horrified, I also fled,
but increased only in memory the overall impression: the stone Mary on the portal, the flower-bearing
children of flesh and Blood, and the dead Peter von Schaumburg, the fun-loving cardinal, who
himself, as he still burrowed in the gold and Augsburg's beautiful daughters, removed his confession,
that terrible Monument had set went along beside me, kicked me in the way, or followed with quiet
Soles of my steps. Once at the top in my room, I hastily threw his hat and coat of I sat down
at his desk and wrote - wrote - wrote, without the repeated reminder to consider for dinner, a fantastic
story in which the prince of the Church to hold the Blessed Virgin of the city in sinful love was
kindled and the modest Maid was turned to her prayer to the stone image on the pillar, while
in its vicinity penitent this permanent memento mori created. I paid no attention to the hour,
I do not hear the steps of her aunt behind me, only when she bent over me and her warm breath
my Grazed his forehead, I drove scared out of my waking dream.

"So just to turn your back I need, and the old story begins again," cried they revolted and
took the written pages from the desktop. "Instead of your English essay make, do you do fool's
antics. "So they broke my cardinal novella into a thousand pieces. I felt more like all the blood
out of my cheeks, with the self-control, it was over. "You want to kill me - slowly tortured
to death" - I gasped, "I do not do anything what you want, let me lock up and even control
how a criminal? Grant me but my little own life - my gift a few hours a day --. Do not like you,
what I write, it let me at least. I will torture anyone so yes. - "That would be even better
if you show me with the vain fool around such scribblings wanted, "she said. "I can not tolerate
tintenklexende woman with me. And you want, I will have extra free time you start it! A woman
has not at all to live for themselves but for others, "tormented, I laughed -. I thought of
how the Aunt "for other" living! "I think it is but not, I must be going on, what grabbed me
added. Others also do not like you think Grandma has always been for the fact that the inner
I Forced to obey. "

! "Your Grandma" - mocking the aunt pursed her full lips, "I will so certainly the old lady
not to step close, but you ought to do better than them for leniency call! "

Outraged, I went on: "Grandma is the best woman I know, the only person
to me loves and understands me!

"

"It may be that they understand you," said the aunt. "She's just like you spanned No Miracle - the
problematic origin "I involuntarily clenched his fists, that my Nails penetrated into the flesh
and threw back his head haughtily: "With your Augsburgers shopkeepers they can not compete, however,
"Boiling anger distorted the features of the aunt. "Will you ask now because of this outrageous
audacity to forgive? "she yelled at me. With a short "No," I turned away and went into my bedroom.

I threw myself on the bed and clenched his teeth so as not to shout at: spasmodic Pain in the
side made me forget the mental suffering right now. Indications of which I had already felt
in Pirgallen riding, and now, in Augsburg, they were increasingly become, and increased after
each major arousal to a violent attack. Finally, had I had decided to speak to the aunt of which
they had taken it as an opportunity to to explain to me that a well-behaved young girl would
not have to be sick, and her family doctor I was then recommended
for a quick look at my pale face, "steak and red wine."

I then said no more, even though I cringed in pain. As the night It was certainly never been
before. I did not sleep a wink.

The next morning I was informed that I had to stay on top. Even before the servants I should be
humiliated and forced to apologize.

And also passed the second day, without that I made to mine, Pastor Haberland came to me. He
said a lot of aunts Love for me, their concern for me, the sacrifice of personal comfort, which
to me always bring to their age and my youth committed to the subordination. "Show that you now
really are a Christian, "he said. "You humble yourself, even if you really Injustice would be
done!
 On certain occasions the restrictions on the intercourse of the sexes
are removed for a brief period, at the expiration of which the prohibitory law resumes its
place.[1017] Many special ceremonies in various parts of the world have to do with modifications
of marriage laws.[1018]

+618+. Taboo and magic. Reference is made above to magical procedures in connection with taboo
customs. Taboo and magic have a common basis in the conception of an occult force (which may
conveniently be called mana) resident in all things, but they contemplate different sides of
this force, and their social developments are very different. Taboo recognizes the inherent
malefic manifestations of the force (known by supposed experience), and avoids them; magic
uses the mana energy to effect results impossible for unaided human power. In taboo man feels
himself to be under the dominance of an occult law, and his virtue is blind obedience; in magic
he feels himself to be the master of a great energy, and what he needs is knowledge. Taboo
has originated a mass of irrational rules for the guidance of everyday life; magic has grown
into a quasi-science, with an organized body of adepts, touching religion on one side and real
science on another side.

+619+. A closer relationship between magic and taboo has been assumed in view of the fact that
both rest to some extent on the principle of the association of ideas, the principle that like
procedures produce like results. It is true that some taboo rules depend on this conception:[1019]
the flesh of timid animals is avoided, that of courageous animals is eaten, under the belief
that the man partakes of the character of the food he eats; association with women is sometimes
supposed to make a man or a boy effeminate. It is to be expected that in the immense number
of taboo prohibitions and precautions some should be found in which the association of ideas
is the determining factor. But for the majority of taboo regulations this explanation does
not hold. In the economic and sexual taboos mentioned above, in the dread of corpses, in the
fear of touching things belonging to a chief, and in other cases there are customs that can
only be referred to a belief in an injurious potency residing in certain objects.[1020] Practically,
savage tribes distinguish between taboo and magic.

+620+. Contamination of customs has always been the rule in human communities, early and late,
savage and civilized. We have seen how there has often been a coalescence between taboo regulations
proper and ordinary civil law. To state the case more fully, these have been fused into a unity
of social life with individual initiative, magical notions, arbitrary enactments. The actual
social constitution even of slightly developed tribes is composite, the outcome of long experience
and experiment in which all the lines of social feeling and thought have gradually drawn together
and been compacted into a more or less unitary mass. While these lines have influenced each
the others, it is possible, to a considerable extent, to distinguish the sphere of each. Mama was deathly pale with fright in an armchair.
There was an indescribable scene. The same man who shows me his tenderness never enough , could
now not a word was too offensive to insult me. I stood before him, petrified. Only when he called Hellmut
a dishonorable and uttered the most insane threats against him, I came to see me. "The patience
I do not that you attack his honor," I called him and came close under the eyes, "but beating with
fists on me if you want, but it - it allowed to not touch you. "Papa looked at me with big,
turned and groaned in agony. The bore no more. Weeping, I threw myself at his feet. "Papa
- I have pity on me - My bad luck is still big enough, "I sobbed. And the same hand that made
me almost would have struck, lifted me up. "My poor, poor child," he said, and expressing a
wounded man to death, he looked at me.

Mom had been quiet until then. Now I heard her quiet cool voice as from far, far ago. She read
the letter from the aunt, I hardly understand him, only the words "duty," "victim," "Honor" were
repeated, as it seemed, often. "Alix is," he concluded about, "by this experience be prudent and
subdue their unbridled passion to learn. Our whole Life is renunciation and devotion to duty
... "I laughed shrilly on beautiful at this tirade, immediately afterwards to break into a wild
fit of weeping. Dad carried me to bed. My Mother left me since then a minute. Towards evening
she made me get up. Hardly on the I could keep my feet, and the pain I had to scream, but my
Will power was stronger than anything. I was unable even to smile at my father grateful, when
he told me he had taken "the difficult task upon himself, the prince of the Output of the sad
affair to be informed. "

When I, as always, in the next room preparing the tea, I heard with my feverish sharpened senses,
Mama said to him: "I know Alix enough to be no serious concern to have. Where we have been
so far - there was always some more or less fatal love story. In this case, where her vanity mitspricht,
things look more substantial. "But you saw but they! - Such despair can be the most extreme fear,
"argued my father. "Trust I prefer, Hans - you always look like a golden mirror! I have, thank God,
my very sober and clear eyes keep, "said Mama," we now have nothing to do as to prevent that they
and we compromised by tragic poses - everything else leave quiet time, and -, "she added with
a half smile -"! the next guy "

What they told me was just accepted, and I behaved, according to their words, while I went at the
same time with perfect calm to the execution of a plan by the first Moment when I learned of the
rejection of the aunt, was clear to me. I let me kiss on the forehead goodnight and lay down
quietly, that Mama come again and would look after me, I knew, and waited until she went back to
her bedroom and every sound was dead in the house.
 Though there is no proof of the existence of all-pervading taboo systems among the peoples
of Asia and America, there are notices of taboo regulations in particular cases in these regions.
At the birth of a child the Hindu father was subject to certain restrictions along with the
mother, and his taboo was removed by bathing.[1030] Among the Sioux Indians on the death of
a child the father is taboo for a period of six months or a year.[1031] In West African Calabar
there are taboos (called ibet) on individuals, connected with spirits, the guardians of children.[1032]
In Assam economic and other taboos are elaborate and well organized.[1033] Such observances,
in connection with death, are found among the Kafirs[1034] and the Eskimo.[1035]

+625+. For the ancient civilized peoples there is no proof of the existence of general taboo
systems. Various particular prohibitions, involving a sense of danger in certain things, are
mentioned above; they relate chiefly to corpses, to infected houses, to women in connection
with menstruation and childbirth,[1036] to certain official persons (as the Roman flamen dialis).
There are also the lists of unlucky days (Egyptian, Babylonian, Greek, Roman). A white box decorated with flowers I asked
how attached an altar in the center, colorful candles on my birthday cake I am around, and a small
dish of malachite, filled with rose petals, put me as Sacrificial stone in front. Only the
God was missing was the smell of incense. Quietly, with angehaltnem Breath, I crept over to the dining
room, pulled from the oven Sims the small statuette of Apollo from Belvedere and raised him to
the holy temple of my glowing colors. Deep I had to tend to to look into it, but I almost touched
the ground with their lips met, my only solemn prayer. Baldur "I called the Apollo, for the
gods of the Germanic world was me above all become familiar, and with a first instinctive rebellion
against the pain form of the Crucified God, I prayed to the flourishing of the rising light.

Childish mags appear to those who know nothing of the depths of the child's soul, but I know
that any believing Christian piety could be more intimate than the one that filled me, when I fell
in front of the sanctuary selbstgeschaffnen to its knees.

I told my mother beating heart that I broke the Apollo "would have, and asked them to Like
all residents, the dark cloth with a carefully concealed corner of my room to investigate not,
the "Christmas surprise" because I would have kept there. As but Christmas was over, I made
no move to my mysterious building the to sacrifice the broom and floor cloth. I secretly bought
me flowers, always fresh to him to , And decorate a small ever-burning lamp, at the burning and
extinction of all sorts is gradually superstitions closely linked, and incense cones that every
night the God of the Altar wrapped in bluish clouds. Many times Mom had warned me that "useless
stuff away" to clear, finally, when I came one morning on the piano lesson, she kicked me with a red
Face opposite. "Will you for never unlearn the lies?" She cried, pulling me in my Room. My temple
was gone, in wild confusion lay flowers and fabrics, lights and incense on the table, extinguished
the lamp stood beside Baldur Apollo. "You know, as it is called when one appropriates other
people's property? "Before these words gave the solidification of the first horror of me. I threw myself
crying in front of my bed in the knees, and my Limbs flying, and my heart was pounding as if
it would burst my breast. My mother considered that this outbreak of despair seems to regret.
"Well calm down, Alixchen," said them, laying his hand on my head, a touch that forced me to him
even deeper to buried in the pillow, "I want the whole story once again regarded as a mere
trifle. You lie to me even once, I must raise other strings. "

I built from now on no longer a temple. Outwardly my life was the correct one student and well-bred
daughter. In the humid greenhouse air inside my overgrown but the magic flowers my dreams, and I blew
her intoxicating scent, when I was alone and himself to me came. I often talked frantically
awake until everyone was asleep, then cloudy in the flickering Candle to sit still long at the
desk, where I head with burning and body frostbebendem Verses to paper, the screaming for freedom
and for love.

Only the teaching of my teacher had not due to the storms of my interior and directed my interest
in other directions. The history of literature particularly fascinated me more and more. It
consisted not only of the name of the poet, the titles of their works and ready-made Judge them that
are apt to feign equipped our youth education, she taught me rather, if it corresponded to my
intellectual development, knowledge of the works themselves In little yellow booklet they gave
me my teacher, who did not have the means to more costly Expenditure to purchase. The Nordic
and the earlier German literature, Greek and I got to know Roman classics in this way, by reading
my desire grew purchased for new books, and instead of incense and flowers for my temple I
look at a Reklamheft after another. After I first had the catalog in hand, let I no peace,
I had to read, read - read everything. In any case it was the acceptance of better ideas by the people that led to the revolutionary
movement.

+630+. Rôle of taboo in the history of religion. The relation of taboo to morality and religion
and to the general organization of society appears from the facts stated above. It has created
neither the sense of obligation nor the determination of what is right or wrong in conduct.
The sense of obligation is coeval with human society--man, at the moment when he became man,
was already potentially a moral being (and a religious being as well).[1048] His experience
of life induced rules of conduct, and these, with the concurrence of some hardly definable
instincts, became imperative for him--the conception involved in the word 'ought' gradually
took shape. The practical content of the conception was determined by all sorts of experience;
the decisive consideration was whether or not a given thing was advantageous. The belief arose
that certain disadvantageous things were to be referred to extrahuman influences, and such
things were of course to be avoided--this belief produced the taboo system.

+631+. The prohibitions of morality sprang from social relations with human beings, the prohibitions
of taboo from social relations with superhuman beings--duties to both classes of beings were
defined by experience. The rule "thou shalt not kill thy clansman" was a necessity of human
society; the rule "thou shalt not touch a corpse" sprang from the fear of a superhuman, malign,
death-dealing Power. Avoidance of poisonous herbs was an obligation founded on common experience;
avoidance of a chief's food and certain other foods arose from dread of offending a spirit
or some occult Power. And so with all taboo prescriptions as contrasted with others relating
to conduct.[1049]

+632+. Taboo is in essence religious, not moral. In so far as it supplies a supernatural sanction
for moral conduct proper and maintains rational social relations (as when a man's wife and
other property are made taboo to all but himself), it is often beneficent. On the other hand,
it is antimoral when it elevates to the rank of duties actions that have no basis in human
relations or are in any way antagonistic to a healthy human instinct of right. This it has
often done, and there has accordingly resulted a conflict between it and morality--a conflict
that has formed no small part of the ethical history of the race, its echoes remaining to the
present day. In all religions it has been hard to bring about an intelligent harmony between
the moral and the ritual. Taboo was not originally irrational--it sprang from the belief (rational
for the early time) in the presence of the supernatural in certain objects, and this belief
was held to be supported by early experience, according to which it seemed that violations
of taboo were followed by sickness or death or other misfortunes. It came to be thought irrational
with the progress of knowledge and reflection.

+633+. Taboo, being a religious conception, has been adopted and fostered by all popular systems
of religion. It has been set aside not by religion as such but by all the influences that have
tended to rationalize religion. Religious leaders have modified it so far as modification has
been demanded by public opinion. So enlightened and spiritual minded a man as the apostle Paul
declared that an unworthy participation in the eucharistic celebration produced sickness and
death.[1050] Innumerable are the taboos that have passed silently into oblivion.

+634+. Taboo, then, is a concomitant of man's moral life that has sometimes opposed, sometimes
coalesced with natural morality. Like all widely extending institutions it has tended in part
to weld men together; like all irrational restrictions it has tended also to hold men apart.
Like all positive law it has fostered the sense of moral obligation, but like all arbitrary
law it has weakened the power of intelligent and moral obedience. It has been not the guardian
of morality, but a temporary form (useful in a primitive stage of society) in which a part
of the moral law expressed itself. The real moral force of society has been sympathetic social
intercourse, which, under the guidance of an implicit moral ideal, has been constantly employed
in trying to spiritualize or to reject those enactments of taboo that have been proved by experience,
observation, and reflection to be injurious.[1051]

CHAPTER VI

GODS

+635+. The climax of the organization of external religion appears in the conception of gods
proper; this conception is always associated with more or less well-developed institutions.
Early religious life expresses itself in ceremonies; the god is the embodiment of man's ideal
of the extrahuman power that rules the world. It is not always easy to distinguish the true
gods from the other supernatural beings with which early man's world is peopled.[1052] As far
as concerns power, the ghosts and the spirits appear to do all that the gods are credited with
doing; the sphere of ghostly action is practically unlimited, and the spirit that dwells in
a spring, in a river, or in a mountain, is as mighty in his sphere as Indra or Apollo in his
sphere; the difference between them and gods is a difference of intellectual and moral culture
and of the degree of naturalization in a human society--a god might be defined as a superhuman
Being fashioned by the thought of a civilized people (the term 'civilized' admitting, however,
of many gradations). Still, gods proper may be distinguished from other Powers by certain characteristics
of person and function. Ghosts are shadowy doubles of human beings, sometimes nameless, wandering
about without definite purpose except to procure food for themselves, uncertain of temper,
friendly or unfriendly according to caprice or other circumstances, able to help or to harm,
and requiring men to be constantly on the alert so as not in an unguarded moment to offend
them. Souls of recently deceased ancestors, more highly organized ghosts, conceived of also
as attenuated bodies, have powers not essentially different from those of the simpler ghosts,
but are differentiated from these in function by their intimate relations with the family or
clan to which they belong, and by their more definite human nature; they are as a rule permanently
friendly, are capable of definite sympathetic social intercourse with living men, and are sometimes
controllers and patrons, hardly to be distinguished from local or departmental gods. Spirits
are ethereal beings residing in, or closely connected with, certain objects (trees, rivers,
springs, stones, mountains, etc.), sometimes permanently attached to these objects, sometimes
detached; roaming about, sometimes kindly, more generally inimical, authors of disease and
death, to be feared and to be guarded against, but sometimes in function (though not in origin)
identical with ancestral ghosts. Totems, in their developed form, are revered, but rarely if
ever worshiped. The term 'animal-gods' may mean either living animals regarded as divine, or
animals believed to be the forms assumed by gods; in the latter case they may be taken to be
real gods of an inferior type.

In distinction from the four classes of Powers just mentioned, a true god is a supernatural
being with distinct anthropomorphic personality, with a proper name or a distinctive title,
exercising authority over a certain land or people or over a department of nature or a class
of phenomena, dwelling generally in a sanctuary on the earth, or in the sky, or in the other
world, and in general sympathetic with men. Gods have rational human qualities, human modes
of procedure, and are human beings in all things except power.[1053]

+636+. The god appears to have been at the outset a well-formed anthropomorphic being. His
genesis is different from that of the ghost, spirit, ancestor, or totem. These, except the
spirit, are all given by experience: totems are familiar objects plainly visible to the eye;
ghosts and ancestors are known through dreams and appearances by day, and by tradition; and
the conception of the spirit is closely allied to that of the ghost, though it is in part a
scientific inference rather than a fact of experience. In distinction from these a god is a
larger product of imagination, springing from the necessity of accounting for the existence
of things in a relatively refined way. The creator is a beast only in low tribes, and in process
of time, if the tribe continues to grow in culture, is absorbed in the cult of a true god.
It is rarely, if ever, that a beast, whether a totem or only a sacred thing, becomes a god proper.

The best apparent examples of such a growth are the Egyptian bull Apis, who had his temple
and ministers, the Hindu monkey-god Hanuman, and the divine snake of the Nagas of India.[1054]
But, though in these cases the beast forms receive divine worship, it is not clear whether
it is the beast that is worshiped or a god incarnate in the beast; the question is difficult,
the data being meager. 

"And you played 'Do not get," he hissed through his teeth, "with your past do you have the least
reason to be. "An inarticulate sound was my head quickly to the other Page contact, Fritz had ejected
him. He sat there, chalk-white face, with quivering lips.

"You are my cousin you're sorry, Baron Selva," he barked at Hermann. "Have no reason, Mr. Lange
Scheid," he answered, leaning into the wide Chair back and put his hands in his pockets. I hastily
grabbed the hot finger my defender. "Close but no stories, Fritz - Hermann is tactless as
ever - Please, for my sake, calm down! - That's horrible - here, in the house of my parents'

At that moment began the relatives in the next room to say goodbye.

Fritz pulled me aside. He trembled with excitement.

"And you do not even defend yourself against such vulgarity," he whispered in a choked voice.

"Defend!

Against such a man?! Should I admit it, perhaps, that I once loved in life - with all your soul
and with all my heart!

Set before the people who do not Strong feelings are able to expose my inner self, what I
do for myself hardly Have courage? "

"Alix," someone from afar seemed to call out my name, with a term
I in the Soul cut.

The next moment, I leaned over the withered hand in farewell Jettchen aunt, heard with half an
ear and felt a general hubbub, finally, on my Dad's lips Forehead.

"Thank God," he muttered, "the evening we had behind us!"

Dreamy and amazed I looked around me when I arrived eight days later in Weimar. Was the Time here for
ten years still? The same bright Maytime evening as it was then received me. And the same old
house on the farm led me to the wall Hofequipage, as before, the grandmother as her grandchild
for the first derived. They certainly were not there, and yet MIRS, as if her dress beside me
rushed up the stairs. Her brother was long dead, yet seem's as if the beautiful, deep brunette
man with small hands and the slightly bent Neck, who received me, none other than himself.

Rococo salon with many miniatures of the graceful sofa and the faded pastels from the dull blue silk
wallpaper rose from the gold carved a chair by the window slim female
image, and held me with a sweet and tender smile, a white little hands
contrary.

Was that really the Countess Wendland - my aunt - or was it not Madame de Stein, whose shadow had
strayed from the house next door here? Then the children came and welcomed me, - all these
little elves too heavy fine hairs on the head and too much blue eyes narrow on the cheeks.

Outside my room, splashed the fountain, as rustled from ancient times, and the trees solemnly as their
crowns Should that not a hurricane.

The next morning I visited the Grand Duke. He came on foot and unannounced, with the rapid elastic step
of a young man, I barely had time to him staircase up to the go to meet. And then he sat opposite
me in a rococo salon, and the longer he spoke - with clear voice and the elegant French of the
ancien régime - the deeper sank the Present, and in a mystical half-light of the past rose up. told
by the grandmother First he told me how beautiful and how good and how wise it would have
been, as in Weimar spirit have embodied, as he had never been able to see that it anywhere but in
her soul home had been able to live. Sometimes he put his hand over his eyes, a sallow, bloodless muscle
loose hand, tackling issues which certainly had never been able, and leaned, as would Suddenly the memory
of their own age about him, deep into the chair. But right thereafter, stretched his slender
upper body convulsively, his hands wrapped the side rails, his eyes widened, and with the
stereotypical taught Prince smile on any To hide the sensation, he began talking again. Now
I was no longer the grandchild the friend of his youth, but the writer of which he fulfillment
of a long-held Desire expected. The history of Weimar society, I should write that society,
since Goethe's arrival at the residence of Charles Augustus' faithful
to its tradition, artists and Poets included as equal and they paved
the way to fame.

"And He told the multitude, which Weimar had been a stepping stone to life, the first here
recognition found that failed the world outside them. He is enthusiastic in his own reasoning,
his colorless face covered himself with a very fine blue Redness, and his veiled eyes lit a quiet
light.

"You are destined to create this work: Impregnated with memories of
Weimar, educated Weimar in mind, guided by the infallible measure
of the aristocrat, "he said, as he raised me and shook hands.

"From you, I do not need any of those disgusting revelations to fear that pollute the art of
poison life. My archives are open to you; I also think the same promise
on behalf of the Grand Duchess should be.

I hope you often to see - - "

For an answer he gave me no time - that I could not say no, and should, it was granted. I had
to bow to me, only deep and grateful.

And always close to spinning magic power of Weimar me to mind and senses. With open arms, as coming
home late, I was received everywhere. While audiences long discussed the Grand Duchess my work
at the Goethe archives with me. She was always in every word and every movement unapproachable princess,
and yet a mother's expression on her face when I entered. The small, firm Hereditary Grand Duke,
in every way the opposite of his father, he was like me compared with the friendliness, by his dialect
and his wide Weimar with a some deliberately exaggerated contempt formally still a warm glow
was, and its good, thick woman who would certainly have given a magnificent
country pastor, supported him in it.

Connected me with the half court society kinship relations, cousins and cousins ​​sixth and eighth
grade each treated here in the tightly closed circle how close blood relatives. We were in great company
if no one among us "You said to the other.

Like a sweet fragrance candles extinguished the memory floated to the eighteenth century about
all these people and their environment. Everything was faded, which was then in colors and
feelings rejoiced and reveled had: the rose carpets - the painted cheeks - love. And the rustling
rustling robes, the Schönpflästerchen, the colorful jackets, the white Wigs and Galanteriedegen
had put off the ladies and gentlemen. They did so quite often poor
and clumsy.

Only if the chandelier in the castle burned down and the bare floor and the high levels its light again gave
a thousand times, they seemed to the old life be aware of. They danced and laughed and bowed their
heads and sipping the sweet wines, and I own the middle of it seemed to me as their equal: a
shadow of the past.

Even in the houses I came, where memories of old times in faded letters, tender-blue sky Root
directories, rings from the hair of loved ones, ceremonial cups with
pictures of the Immortals were kept.

The friendly, a little sentimental, a little narrow spirit of the thirties Years it was here. No
modern Renaissance had the straight Biedermeier furniture and displaces the light muslin curtains,
and yet the noise of colors and tones of a Böcklin had taken a Liszt and Wagner her eye and
her ear, she stood in the midst of the soft Fairytale dreams Schwind shear forests, and inside
the ear-folk Felix Mendelssohn.

I worked every morning in the rooms of the Goethe archive, high up in the left wing lock, through
the window of the eye could wander about the park far away and the ear nothing heard as the soft chatter
between the rippling Ilm and the green tree leaves above it. The learned men who worked with
me, treated me with those selected Courtesy that erects walls between people. They answered
my questions, they brought me what I needed, they bowed low before me, as it would have been necessary
but I still felt the scorn of the German scholar from the woman who in circles passes. But the
longer I was in Weimar, the more dense an atmosphere enveloped me of incense, which I was not
only insensitive but also aloof arrogance made.

Only a, the director, a clever eccentric met me as a man to man. But sometimes it happened
that I know his father's admonitions, his wise counsel, his sarcastic
criticism not tolerated.

Not only vanity, the air in the greenhouse of living rooms grew so
lush, and the impatience that grabbed me often in the middle of the
work carried because the debt.

"They are relegated to the rag pickers in this eternal trash work, I cried again shocked when I
saw a note that I was missing, could not see.

The director, who had helped me during the last few hours, looked at me, frowning.

"They are very young and very premature, madam," he said sharply. "Who the completion a mosaic
image, a single stone and need boxes and crates, even after that mines explored, which provides
a more valuable work than some, which is a whole painting in two Hinpatzt hours. 'Restraint
is all our lot,' says our master, and with full Consciousness are one-sided, is the starting
point of efficient performance. "

"Restriction is everywhere our lot" - that buried itself in my brain - I was looking for from because
of my stones and suppressed my grumbling.

On a Lenztag that was so rich as to have all the songs of the singer
in Weimar fragrance and changes in brightness or color, we drove up
to Belvedere.

The Grand Duke had us Spring Festival to be loaded into chalet. was in a bower of lilies and
roses the round garden room changed, by the wide-open doorway laughed the blue sky, on the flashing
silver and cut crystal table of the sun shone, the Number of diners did not exceed that of the
Muses, and a cheerful conversation as the Wiesenbach all corners and edges and avoid strokes
even the stones that lie in its path, flooded back and forth. Why only my thoughts sometimes lost the
thread, and the enchanted forest at the green Badersee me like a mirage appeared and cool mountain
air, my forehead umstrich? - The Scent of lily of the valley, it was probably that caused the
spell.

In the park, escorted us to our host the dinner. He showed me the maze and the Natural stage and
pointed with loving admiration of the rolling wooded hills, which
extended far into the distance.

"This is beauty," he said, "calm-refined beauty, a pure framework for real art, as we have
maintained in Weimar and will maintain. I I am glad that you want to help us. - You will not
stay in Weimar, true, "I replied evasive. He understood me wrong: to find "a position that suits
you may You left me, "and with a friendly handshake, he turned to another. On the Home me congratulated
my relatives. Graf Wendland, behind the airs of a faultless Courtier a clever, oddly free man hid
said with a slight smile: "The white hawk will be no lack of Hofhistoriographin. A goal of
the rub, is not it? "

The same evening I was in for one of my many aunts supper.

But there was one that not like many, was - one original, about shrugged his shoulders and the family
Heads shook. She had been in her early girlhood Weimar, despite their own Created life. She searched
her house friends among the artists and poets who would otherwise were used in Goethe's city
but only on effective décor, the court society. So she had gradually become the motherly friend
of all the young people here on the steep ladder to fame, the first steps did or artistic revelations
investigated. And who forced the court was a nuisance who needs fresh air, to whom a free Word
on the tongue was burning, came to her.

Today they were all gathered around her tea-table, the old and young: omission jovial artist head
appeared next to the beautiful Schiller Profile Alexander von Gleichen, a few foreign friends, Writers
and theater directors have on the forthcoming Goethe-Gesellschaftstag arrived, were found in one,
Richard Strauss was shy in a corner, the pale young conductor, the most ridiculed, and here at
the gracious woman who just maintained in severe disease had, as a child was in the house.
And thin and pale as he old-fashioned in velvet and glattgescheiteltem
hair appeared a girl - not young, not old - at the door on which I
have often praised her aunt as a great poetic talent had: Gabriele
Reuter.

And a young singer came to a Bavarian Supreme daughter who, despite her beautiful voice on stage
could not be home and anxious, like a stray Vogel, looking for people
who took care of her.

The hostess conducted like a general the motley company and the conversation - and threw in a witty
word, if it is on to get the highway threatened general gossip. Finally, it is hotly disputed
of Weimar's importance to the spiritual life of the present.

"Artists need rest," said match, depraved "but they go stale and if they do not always return with
a cargo of ideas from the outside world here. "

Lively contradicted Werner von Eberstein, a young historian at the
Grand Ducal House archive was active. is "For the man of science is
nothing better than in this secure port to enter, where nothing distracts
him from his studies.

"

The aunt took a lively same party.

"Old people may equate to that. You boys But the storm has only hard blow to the nose, "she
said. 're Gone out many of Here, saturated with creative energy, but has become something they
are just beyond our mild Air.

So I'm glad you kids - I'd certainly drive you all together, "and
so she nodded to the narrow-musicians and the shy young writer to
order immediately to turn to me and Eberstein, who was sitting next
to me and her nephew was:

"You two are already wrapped in premature
praise to the neck, but still give I'll not up yet.

Have the self-denial to demolish them! Hoflust stifled talents just like the back of house rooms. "

"They are very pale and still become, dear lady," said the same, when he saw me late at night
accompanied her home.

"Do you think I should paint my crazy herb gardens can, if I had not seen elsewhere, the flowers
and the sun than here? "

He felt like an old friend, even though I had met him the first time.

"But maybe Weimar means for me, which means for the rest of the world? Life - liberation ' I answered.

"No,"
he said firmly and shook my hand.

"No - you need more flexibility for your freedom. "

I was tired from day to day. Was it the daily hour-long morning's work in the archives It was
the continuous companionship at lunch and dinner, which gradually
relaxed me?

I was not clear to me about it. But I longed for the silence of the mountains, where I To start
using the accumulated material had the intention of my book. Only the Goethe-day I wanted to
wait. They fell in that year with the anniversary of the old theater and attracted celebrities
from all over the world to Weimar. Even my friends in Berlin were
missing not.

"I did not get them all right?" Said Professor Fiedler
honest with joy when he saw me surrounded at the center of society,
recognition and adulation, saw again.

"What an honor for me, my dear
lady," said the man with the Goethe head as He was sitting at a diner
next to me.

And I saw growing discontent with how deeply all the
men of art and science the gray heads bowed before the prince, as
expectant, mute and agitated in a row rank and were an expression
of happiness and the face of everyone busy when the Grand Duke a few
meaningless words addressed to him. Where such a hero stood in close relations
with a community--if, for example, as was sometimes the case, he was the patron or tutelary
divinity of a family, or a mythical ancestor--there was doubtless a peculiar tenderness in
the feeling for him. But his general function probably was simply that of local patron.[1102]

+654+. Clan gods are specially important in the history of worship--they form the real basis
of the great theistic development. Ghosts and spirits continue to be recognized and revered
or dreaded, but they are not powerful social bonds--it is the local deity about whose person
organized public worship grows up, and it is he whose functions are gradually enlarged till
he becomes a universal god. The initial forms of religion are everywhere limited locally and
intellectually; it is only by loyalty to the home as a center and standing-place that man's
religious affections and ideals have expanded so as to embrace the world, and reach a high
standard of ethical purity and logical consistency.

DEPARTMENTAL GODS

+655+. It must be regarded as an advance in religious conceptions and religious life when natural
phenomena are divided into classes and assigned each to its special deity; such a scheme brings
men into more intimate and sympathetic relations with the gods. It presupposes a relatively
advanced observation of nature and some power of coördination and generalization, and seems
to be found only in communities that have some well-organized communal life. In general it
belongs to the agricultural stage and to the higher civilizations that have grown out of this
stage. Care for food appears to be the starting-point; later, all sorts of social interests
demand consideration.

+656+. This specialization of functions is possibly in part an elevation of the old scheme
of spirits according to which every object in the world was conceived of as inhabited or controlled
by some spiritlike being. It is not probable that the departmental gods are always developed
directly out of spirits--they appear sometimes to belong rather in the clan system, are anthropomorphic,
human, lending themselves more readily than spirits do to human intercourse.[1103] It is true
that the lower cults of animals and spirits persist alongside of the higher religious forms,
and the various groups often appear to blend with one another, as is generally the case in
transitions from one system of thought to another.

+657+. Deities with this sort of specialized functions appear in all parts of the world and
at various periods of culture. The particular sort of specialization differs according to climatic
conditions and social organization--that is, it depends in any community on the nature of the
phenomena that touch the life of the community closely. But the general principle remains the
same--it is the effort to penetrate more deeply into the nature of the supernatural Powers,
and to enter into more intimate and helpful relations with them; it is the beginning of a more
practical study of theology proper.

+658+. Where the bushes were thickest, and we hid played in the green
twilight of fantastic tales. My fertile imagination put the two others to: stone gods they
dug under halbverwitterten eager for the treasures, of which I knew to tell exactly, or they prowled
the patient again Fritzen old castle on top of the flower terraces, the knights and fairies
with palpitations expectations I had already seen "soo" often. Of course, if absolutely nothing
of what is expected wanted to show himself, had to self pay dearly, and if we, with our dirty hands,
and mashed Clothes because of our three lordship were scolded, I always was the main culprit. Gradually
got used my very sturdy and prosaic little cousin out the lively Outbursts of my imagination with
a contemptuous "too stupid to respond," what I to tears and hurt more and more Silenced. I played
with the ball and then like Tires without crawling in the bushes, then praised me Mademoiselle:
"Comme elle devient raisonnable" she said.

I still was not fixed on this season of good education than me severe
grief befell.

In our garden, in the afternoons we used to play were on the roads many-colored pebbles. In a
corner, under a jasmine bush - the white flowers I always wore my deepest secrets - I gained
the most, I could find. I was convinced that she within her golden carriage with white horses
in front, flashing Royal crowns and shimmering castles hid, and tried to turn over with a hammer.
Finally, Werner and Adda were behind my secret: my cousin, my fervent enthusiasm infected for the
expected glories liked, also tried his hand, the to open the gravel, and succeeded. "Are you stupid,"
he shouted angrily as he splinters the gray held in his hand, "there are only ordinary stones!"

I often have later behind the lifeless wonderful revelations of suspected and the sweat I tried
the light to penetrate to them, but the disappointment I was hardly
ever so violently hurt and pushed to the wilder despair, as it was
then that I, a five-year Child, sat weeping in front of the broken
stones.

When the others mocked me when the pain overcame me and they did not understand, why, then I had a haven
and a man who is always the right words of comfort found: Grandma.

How often have I fled to her silent realm where it is between flowering palm trees and dark
reading, writing or quietly hinträumend right in their deep, green Armchair sat. She always had
time for me, they never laughed at me and never answered understand "The: on my thousand questions
that a soft children's mind so hurtful you do not. "And if I populated park and garden, water
and forest with a Thousand Faces, Every evening when the dancing in colorful dance around my
bed, I knew that Grandma saw they, like me, only the others had no eyes for it. I was alone
with her, as issued me her room like a fairy tale kingdom only: between the palm trees of the beautiful
white smile Youth head of her father to meet me - half a Caesar and half a Antinous -; from
the walls saw men and women at me, trust me first since my eyelashes, though alien to the nature
and drapery, and one of them, on a small pedestal stand winter and summer, a fresh bouquet
of flowers. That was the poet, sitting at the foot of the grandmother had when she was a child,
was a young girl, was the story of Heideröslein sealed, had the first, I was able to tell,
and at its conclusion I always Voice broke ... "But it did no good and ah, have to let it happen!"

On
the footstool next to Grandma, her head buried in the soft folds of her velvet dress, eyes on the
dancing and flickering flames of the fire directed at their low Voice sounded, telling of Snow
White and Sleeping Beauty or from the little mermaid, the sake of the prince with a thousand
people was the pains and then go down yet again had in the floods
- those were the best days of my early childhood.

And These were all experiences for me, much more important than the events of public Life, whose
story struck my ear. So I know of the Franco-German war, although I saw him as an almost six-year-old,
not too much. Although I see myself plucking lint Sitting by the window or my breakfast roll pity for
the poor soldiers in the box Send to pack the mother used every week, and I remember that I with Hurra
shouted news of victory at all and the illumination candles after the fall of Sedan in the
sand-filled glasses in his pocket. I also know that I the colorful spectacle of the advent of
Winner in Berlin, which I of a new dress with my mother any blauseidnen a linden hotel attended,
very pleased, and that my laurel wreath instead of the lance a warrior on the opened umbrella
fell down a curry favor some citizens of Berlin women; but highly swollen patriotic enthusiasm,
I know nothing. Perhaps the depressed Atmosphere at home had affected me, because this was not
a pure joy of victory. Not only because sons and husband all the vicissitudes of the war were
exposed, but also because close relatives of the dear grandmother served in the French army.
Her nephew came captive to Potsdam, the old brother of her mother, who as a youth under Napoleon
I had earned the spores, was now fighting with the same ardent love of country under his Successor.
From the hatred of the French, who was impressed the German children later times, consequently,
we knew nothing. I think that jingoism, that has been widely makes it thrives only in times of peace.
Anyone who sees eye to eye on the war, whose love of country is perhaps no less profound, but
more serious and quiet. Only when the great Struggles of the peoples are over long, they become
agents, and the enthusiasm of the children . Foment It was well that my imagination untouched
by what was going on, as well was like my mind. Only the return of my father, I looked forward
to cheering joy.

He brought us all gifts from France, which he carefully and in the joyful View of the happy
faces of recipients selected and what he probably much Money had been spent. About all the nice
toys that I got was my joy without Boundaries, and a delicate golden Kettlein that delighted
me more, I threw myself just before the mirror to the head so that the pearl that hung like a
dewdrop in mind just below the peak on the forehead was - my black hair suddenly appeared to
me at all not as ugly - as my mother's face appeared behind me.

Terrified surprised I turned around, silk and velvet were spread out before her, with tender,
questioning Eyes saw the father of her, and she - she is not happy! Words of reproach on the
useless " Expenditure "was the first thing I heard her say, and with an unusually violent
gesture she took me the chain from the hair, which now - I knew this full well - unfathomable
in the depth of the silver cabinet would disappear, like so many of the most beautiful things
grow up "Alix will be. " Then she thanked her father with a cool phrase from which I forced to
the keen sense of the children's heart herausempfand. About our festive spirits had a darker shadow.
Papa went out of tune, I played scared in a possible hidden corners. Joy is one of the most sensitive
plants there, which I then unconsciously felt for the first time: if it is in full bloom, simply a
cold breeze, to kill them. She wants to be kept and maintained, and only their natural withering
is painless. Remained obscured from then on, the mood, campaigning to love, appreciate any
warmer look, my father was trying to cool his beautiful wife. How many times he took me on his
lap, put my cheek to his cheek and hugged and patted me, his eyes followed her, was walking in
the room after each Staubfäserchen that is not about a piece of furniture from had been.

Soon it was said that the mother was ill and needed a longer period of recovery. Large boxes were
packed, and we traveled - grandmother, mother and I, my Mademoiselle and the bridesmaid - after
Switzerland. As soon as the poor, lonely dad was forgotten! Wonderful pictures of gleaming white
Glaciers, blue lakes, rushing water falls and awful abysses attracted me over. Nowhere was my
Bonne me with their eternal: Tiens-toi droite - ne court pas si vite - sois raisonnable as repulsive
as occurred here. The moss to throw with spread Poor, run and jump, as worn by wings and climb
up hill and down dale, higher, higher, right up to the silver heads of the mountains in the middle
of the sky - ah, who could!

One day it took me no longer. Somewhere on Lake Lucerne wars, where I ran away, thoughtless,
aimless, only filled with the glorious feeling of unbound Force. Only when it started to get dark,
I became conscious of my temerity. Suddenly was something so peculiar, that I forgot everything: the White
Mountains were red-hot life. - Men and fearful cry, call me startled from the enchantment,
from the hotel was looking out the runaway. Silently, I returned home, I was insensitive to
all allegations I met the otherwise bitter; the experience had extinguished every other sensation in
me. Only the grandmother, I confided in a whisper the great mystery: how the giant mountain in front
of me were alive.

In the fall of that year returned grandmother back to Potsdam, but Mom and I traveled to Augsburg
to my father's sister Clotilda. She had with Baron Artern, the younger Brother of her aunt Kleve,
where she had been educated married, and had been to recently radiant happiness widow,. For months
it seemed as if her longing desire to Deaths to follow, would be met, and it was my father,
this time with her in the all devotional love and tender regard, that he was capable of standing
to the side and she had recovered from life. It was he was probably also the closely the idea
put to invite us to be. There is hardly a gentler healing force for all life as wounds the soft
hands, clear eyes and bright smile of a child - it was they failed
remained static in me, hoping my father, they should find them.

On a gloomy October evening we arrived in Augsburg. In Trauerlivree we received the Servant at
the station, the carriage was dark, dark, the narrow winding roads, and gray, as lifeless, staring
at the old houses opposite me. In an echoing gateway, the only one uneasy flickering lamp lit
dimly, turned the car, and before a wide, carpeted stairs with ornate wrought iron railing,
we got out. An old servant with a large bunch of keys on the black silk apron greeted us first;
up as a princess, waiting for the house Lady us. The crepe veils she covered almost entirely,
only the white face and red Hair shone out of it. Weeping, she embraced her guests, and shaken
by the impression the new environment, I cried with her.

"You dear child," she said, kissing me tenderly; I had won her heart.

A strange life began for me in the gray house with its long, dark corridors, at the walls of a dark
picture hung next to the other, dark brown, with its powerful Cabinets and the deep, deep carpets,
on which hung the feet suffered silently. The doors were Fries with framed to avoid any noise, and the
ringing had a dark Ton. My aunt could not stand the slightest noise. I had been impressed upon the
strict but I had been here even without this, very quiet. Only in the little room in the old Katherine,
The housekeeper who joined me rapidly in her heart, I could laugh and rage, and outside in all the
many relatives and friends I felt from the dream world into the world back. The first Mädcheneitelkeit
was then raised by them in me.

They surrounded me with the soothing soft formally greenhouse air of admiration, and when
my mother when we were alone, words such as hail showers and thunderstorms cooling Douching
was down, I saw it as nothing more than that to me the joy of just Come once again did not want.
I had before because I was different, reset felt I had seemed compared to my bright-eyed playmates
ugly, it was I gradually realized my specialty as a preference.

In my room I lived alone - Mademoiselle was on vacation with her parents Switzerland have remained
- there was a locked cabinet. I studied through the glass doors the titles on the back of the
books so far that my rather poor knowledge of German Points allowed; French I was alone now
become familiar. On a number of large Quartos were repeated always the same words: "The stories
of thousand and one . Night, "" Arabian Nights "- was so called not the book with the colorful
images, from the I had Aladdin's grandmother read strange adventure? No one told me tales of
Augsburg, Kathy knew only the old ghost stories always the same, ah, if I own it could read!
Secretly, I tried with all the keys that I had reached the cabinet to open to get to the treasures,
which he hid. Finally, finally, he jumped up.

As well I had a sore throat and aunt and mom had gone walking alone! With a beating Heart, I
took out a band after another - I still see her tanned leather me and her yellow, stained paper
stock! - And looked at the many pictures in it: ghosts and monsters, the men on prancing horses, with
curved sabers and a high turban and wonderful, beautiful women. From now on, I had "often" sore
throat, leaving me with touching Patience and envelopes like rubbing, also wore the red Flanellläppchen
without complaint, the I would not have been able to tear down quickly enough. Once I was alone,
I immersed myself in the books. There were unabridged translations of the beautiful fairy treasure,
and I learned read it, the whole richness of color, all the glow of the East surrounded me
like a Magic cloak. How often, when I came to meet with flushed cheeks and burning eyes the returning,
I put the thermometer was concerned by the arm. But I had no fever, - I had played even with
the cut-outs, which in colorful mess my table were!

Why I kept my secret? Not only because the mother certainly closed the books would have, but far
more so, because everything that moved me most deeply, most deeply hidden and had to stay. It appeared
to me desecrated, deprived of its value when other saw it discussed, touched. Grandma alone
would I be able to tell about it. No one knew the secret, in which I lived, no one suspected
that I was in the dark corridors and deep niches all phantoms my books in person before me saw
that they were against me from the pictures on the walls, that I have a strangely humid, heavy
air breathed thirsty.

Since my early childhood I was accustomed to tell me stories in bed at night; those were my
most precious hours! Since I never bothered the rough hand of reality because I laughed none.
From that point onwards, my wild dreamers, so I am often faced with
they feared and crept shivering under the covers.

 Real anthropomorphic gods appear as creators
in very early tribes. Such, for example, are Baiame, Daramulun, Bunjil of Australia,[1147]
perhaps Supu of the Melanesian island of Vate.

+678+. In Polynesia there is a better-defined cosmogonic anthropomorphism. The Hawaiian creators
Kane and Tangaloa appear to be fully formed deities.[1148] The Maoris have the divine figures
Heaven and Earth, whose children are the producers of all things in the world. But Maui, who
seems to be a general Polynesian figure, is rather a culture-hero than a god, though his achievements
were of a very serious sort. The Tapa of the Borneo Land Dyaks,[1149] and the Boora Pennu of
the Khonds[1150] may be regarded as real gods. On the West Coast of Africa the Yorubans, the
most advanced of the coast tribes, with a well-developed pantheon, have deities who may be
called creators; such are Obatala, who, according to one account, made the first human pair
out of clay, and Ifa, the restorer of the world after the flood.[1151] In North America the
New England Kiehtan and the Virginian Oki have creative functions.[1152] The Navahos ascribe
the creation of certain animals to a god Bekotsidi, whose character and rôle, however, are
vague.[1153] The Brazilian Tupan and Jurupari appear to be divine creators.[1154] For a good
many tribes in all parts of the world the published reports give no precise information regarding
the beginning of things, but it seems probable that fuller acquaintance with them would reveal
conceptions similar to those described above.

+679+. The great civilized nations, with their well-formed anthropomorphic deities, have constructed
elaborate cosmogonies, which commonly begin with the conception of an unshaped mass of material
out of which the gods arise and create the world. There is no great difference in these various
schemes: Babylonians and Greeks have fallen upon substantially the same general view of creation;
the variations among the various peoples are due to circumstances of place and culture. It
is noteworthy that the Maoris have a cosmogony which is not unlike that of the great civilized
nations of antiquity, but the origin of their scheme of the world is not clear.[1155]

+680+. Gods of the other world. The class of departmental gods includes those who have charge
of the other world. As soon as the abode of men after death is definitely fixed, it is natural
that a deity presiding over this other world should arise. Among the lower tribes this sort
of god is not frequent.[1156] One of the clearest cases of such organization occurs in Fiji.[1157]
Here, in addition to other deities who deal with the dead on their entrance into this farther
world, the great deity Ndengei has his abode, and one of his functions is to pass on the merits
of those who present themselves from the world of living men. He is, however, in part an otiose
deity and can hardly be said to rule over this otherworldly realm. Similar undeveloped deities
are found among the Maoris and the Finns.[1158]

+681+. But fully formed and effective divine rulers of the other world occur only in the more
advanced religions, such as the Babylonian, the Egyptian, the Hindu, the Persian, the Greek,
the Roman.[1159] From the nature of their abode such deities have very little to do with the
life on earth except when, as in the Egyptian system and to some extent in the Fijian, there
is a judge of conduct, with authority to assign the dead their places, good or bad. In such
cases they become important moral factors in life.

+682+. An ethical god of the other world appears not to have been created by the Semites. The
Babylonian Underworld goddess or god has nothing to do with moral character, and among the
Hebrews, so far as the statements in the Old Testament go, no special deity was assigned to
the other world; whether such an Underworld deity once existed and was lost by the Hebrews,
or has been expurged by the later editors of the Old Testament books, must remain uncertain;[1160]
in the late pre-Christian period the national god, Yahweh, was regarded as controlling the
Underworld as well as Heaven and Earth.[1161] The Greek Aïdes or Ploutōn and the Roman Pluto
also are not ethical gods in the higher sense, as indeed no early deity of any people has such
a moral character. At a later period ethical distinctions were introduced into the administration
of the other world.

By reason of paucity of data it is difficult to determine the precise characters of various
Celtic, Slavic, and Germanic deities whose names appear in the records. They are gods of clans
and of departments of nature; none of them can properly be reckoned among the great gods.[1162]

+683+. Division into good and bad Powers. Among many savage and half-civilized peoples we find
that a distinction is recognized between good and bad ghosts and spirits--a distinction at
first vague, based on passing experiences in which all the fortunes of men, favorable and unfavorable,
are referred to these beings. Their morals are those of the human communities with which they
are connected: they may be amiable or malignant, beneficent or revengeful, but the ethical
element in their characters and deeds is not distinctly recognized and is not made the basis
of the distinction between the two classes. The world is seen to be full of Powers that make
for weal or for woe--a conception that contains the germ of all the later development but is
at first nebulous.

+684+. In a somewhat higher form of culture these two classes of Powers may be unified respectively
into, or replaced by, two gods, one helpful, the other harmful. Such appears to be the scheme
of the Masai, who have their black god and red god.[1163] A Californian cosmogonic myth describes
a nonmoral conflict of work between the good "Creator" and the malicious Coyote.[1164] A real
unification appears, however, to be rare; it supposes in fact a degree of reflection and organization
that we should not expect to find among lower peoples. The story, for example, that has been
told of a well-developed dualistic system of the Iroquois is based on a misconception.[1165]
Dualism proper is not recognizable among the savages of America, Polynesia, Asia, or Africa.[1166]
In the Old Testament prior to the sixth century B.C. the spirits, good and bad, which are not
essentially different from those we find among the lower tribes, are massed under the control
of Yahweh, and do his bidding without moral reflection; when he sends a lying spirit into the
mouth of Ahab's prophets[1167] this spirit goes without malice merely to perform the will of
the supreme god. This massing of all spirit Powers under the control of one god is a step toward
unity and clearness in the conception of the government of the world.

+685+. At a later stage of social growth there appears the conception of a cosmic struggle,
the conflict between the natural forces that tend to disorder and those that tend to order.
Philosophical reflection led to the supposition of an original chaos, a medley of natural forces
not combined or organized in such a way as to minister to the needs of human life; and a similar
conception of conflict may have arisen from observation of the warring elements at certain
seasons of the year.

+686+. The adjustment of the rival forces and the establishment of a system of physical order
is referred to the great gods. Such a picture of the original state of things is contained
in the elaborate Babylonian cosmologies that have come down to us; in these the dragon of disorder
(Tiamat) is completely conquered by the god Bel-Marduk, who represents the Babylonian civilization
of the time in which the cosmology arose. Of the same nature is the Egyptian myth of the contest
between Horus (the light) and Set (the dark), in which, however, the victory of Horus is not
described as being absolute[1168]--a representation suggested, possibly, by the recognition
of the persistence of the good and bad elements of the world; compare the cosmologies of the
Maidu and the Khonds mentioned above (§684). In the Greek and Teutonic myths in which the Giants
are the enemies of the great gods a more humane and settled government of the world is introduced
by Zeus and Wodan. Traces of this construction of the universe are to be found also among the
Maoris, the Hawaiians, and other peoples of a like grade.[1169]

+687+. In the original form of these myths there is no moral element beyond the fact that the
settlement of the cosmic powers was necessary in order to the establishment of good social
life. Individual wicked deities do not appear at this stage, but the way is prepared for them
by the picture of cosmic struggle in which powers friendly and unfriendly to men are opposed
to one another. He was an enthusiastic friend Friedrich Nietzsche
had it even once, to the dismay of the family, offered his property to the asylum. By Nietzsche's
break with Richard Wagner a silent estrangement had occurred between the two, because Gersdorff, a
more passionate Wagnerian, the more the master of developed the ideas of his Parsifal. When
we met in Karlsbad, Wagner was scarcely died a year, and his personality, his works, his beliefs
were the contents of almost all Discussions. Had his music puts me in that state the highest ecstasy,
the whole I dissolve in reverence and delight, his thoughts seemed to me surprising and yet
familiar. His resentment against the existing civilization with its content of material and
mental distress, his faith in the possibility of future regeneration, his criticism of the
contemporary Christianity, compared with the true spirit of the Gospel, and his elevation the
art alive to the amount shown religion - had not somewhere, hidden deep, all that slumbered in me?
I now greeted with the joyful surprise, as we have long forgotten old friends who suddenly from
the crowd of the indifferent us care appear to be welcomed. In quiet I condemned Nietzsche
- whose name I Incidentally, for the eleventh time heard - who had the great friends can be
unfaithful, and conceptual Gersdorff no attachment to him.

One fine morning Maien we were sitting in great company just eingetroffner
relative to the 'old meadow' before the 'elephant'; grandmother was
with them in the meeting of old and new family stories deepened, the
bored me always; Gersdorff reading a of the many books, without which
he was accustomed to leave the house is not.

I went quietly the aquatic standard in its Sunday, armed with pink bread bags, active, like most
serious Business, its target, tempting breakfast, strive lot funny, the over-flooded us. I
felt very comfortable, very comfortable feel, how can that be just a young Gesundgewordnen,
the invigorated the links in the warm spring sun expands. As my eyes fell on the "Merry Science,
"Nietzsche's latest work, which was next to Gersdorff cup. He had Grandma sometimes read sections
of it, of which the sensation of the uncanny Foreigners remained. Mechanically, I began to leaf through
it until a sentence into my Eye jumped, "Life says," Follow me not to, - but you! but you! Passion
is better than stoicism and hypocrisy, Ehrlichsein, even in evil, better than at the morality of tradition
lose ... "

If an icy stream of air through the window suddenly far aufgerißne sitting in a warm room true,
he shudders together first freezing and anxiously to the next moment with deep thirsty trains
suck the pure spring, which his misty-heavy humidity around only brings to consciousness.
How I felt such a. I fought constantly not to me subordinate to the
life and tradition?

I tried not tell me, every victory about my innermost impulses is a sign of growing virtue? And yet
always had a bad Some there!

Funny voices smote my ear:

"See you at the concert this afternoon ..."

"Are you going to the reunion tonight?

... "

"We go to the theater ..."

Half away, I stared from one to another.

"Alix has day dreams," I heard Grandma, confused, I closed the book. Evening before going to bed
I had the sentence from memory into my notebook - between loud Addresses, poems and recipes. With
grandma I changed a word about it, I was afraid me, like a thief, I came before me, the anxious
guards the stolen diamonds, and instinctively I felt that there could be no greater contrast
than that between these words and the doctrine of following Christ,
to the grandmother, known.

A veil was between We fell down, which does not divide, but blur
the clarity of the trains.

End of May we made our farewell visit the doctor.

"Well then," he said contentedly, "there would be the red shoes again!

But now needs to be good and hold the hearts and obey! ... "

After he had been a number of regulations, he paused, hesitating.

"And now the worst for such a young, pretty lady: for the next six - eight months is any kind of
strong Movement is prohibited.

So no riding - no dancing - "

He expected violent opposition obviously think, looking at me for my frank "Certainly, Doctor,
"with undisguised amazement at.

"You're a brave child," said Grandma, as we walked down the stairs.

"Not at all, Grandma," I replied. "For one thing I wish for, peace to learn, to read and work.
"

A visit to Weimar, we were doing, and the long stay in Pirgallen precede should initially seemed
to be dysfunctional. But the more we approach the city of Goethe
approached, the more I was looking forward to it.

While grandmother was trying with the grandchild what awaited her at people and things there, to
familiarize them was lost in the memories of her youth. And I saw before me, the men with smooth
faces fine about the high father murderers, the women with artfully coiffed head, and the simple
Mullfähnchen how they played in the meadows of Tiefurt buff and dainty-grave
in the palace hall the gavotte danced, I heard her crying with Byron
and Lamartine and swarmed, I felt like their minds are deep friendship
developed, how their hearts beat with love happiness and suffering.

    In Goethe's feet I saw the grandmother
    sitting silently, respectfully
    - A listening, a receiving. For
    the poorest time in Germany, - how rich it was!

    And a home they had had, from the
    so-called the roots of their
    soul still life forces.
    

    I sat at the Kupeefenster Abenddämmerlicht;
    grandmother to me fell asleep,
    still a smile of memory on the trains.
    Forests and fields, houses and gardens were flying past me.

    So is my life, I thought. Everything vanishes
    me, that I "could hardly look; nowhere
    is rooted me. This verse came to
    my mind, I hastily scribbled in my notebook:

A tramp I am called,
No one wants to know about me; I ran through the soles, My jacket
has long since worn out.

To work you call me umsunst, Then not supporting the request, Standing at the lark in favor,
The can not catch it;

The singing their song in an open field With free, throat, airy, Who hits high in all the world,
And heard his soul.

But one thing that bothers me hard: She has a nest, a small, - I pulled the country back and forth
- But where, say, is my?

In Weimar we were staying at Grandma's brother on the field wall, close to the house of the woman
of stone, where the laurel trees were in their big pots still as
on the forecourt, like the classical period, as the Lotte 'love of
them to their friends Nachmittagtee received.

From our windows you could see far into the park

On the first morning when the sun rays struck only the very tops of old trees, slipped I also.
Enchanting was quiet and lonely place, a secret only the chirping of birds, a distant Whispers
of the Ilm betrayed life. On the green meadow in front of the Grand Master house sparkled the
dew drops on the quaking grass, the red and white, yellow and blue flowers on the bushes incident
unfolded just in the splendor of glory. Further down, where in the steep rock Downstairs leads
to Ilmtal, moist spicy smell of earth rose up to me.

The closed Window eyes of the hermitage looked like a sleeper for long minutes I stood there,
dream-biased, and waited for the mysterious inhabitants, should open it. But the Ilm rippled
as she laughed at me.

Over the bridge, behind the dark bushes and trees, the earth was still enveloped in a transparent-white
fog cloth to tear the bold sun strove. And a light cottage gleamed invitingly from the opposite
hill, which I am familiar with looked forward, as I'd be over there at home. Was it not come
out of the frame, which in Pirgallen in Grandma's Rooms go? There I had seen it from a young
age, and if I by the sugar house in the woods had heard, I could never imagine MIRS different.
Do I dare me well over could through the fog? King his daughters danced here, as before, because
the clairvoyant Eyes of the poet appeared.

And now I was over there. But the white door between the green hedges locked the silent Empire behind
her. I shyly looked around and no one far and wide! The low wooden fence behind the second
gate was not an insurmountable obstacle to wider - a few cracks in the rock, a scratch on his
arm - and in Goethe's garden I was standing. The sound of creaking wagon wheels drive me the
long, overgrown weeds the way down to behind the house. Green took twilight me, not a leaf stirred
on me, sat motionless on the back of the crumbling bank with superscript a large blue-black butterfly
wings. The silence - a silence, as if the earth lost - and only this room with the dead home
front floating in the vast expanse of space.

I pressed my hands on the wildly beating Heart, and great tears dropped steadily from my eyes.
But then I felt ashamed: how could I - I! profane with my unspeakable grief in this holy place!
Quiet on the toes, the dress gathered to allow his rustling do not disturb, I slipped away.

The mighty cube of granite with the ball and buried it I leaned, bitterly weeping, his face in his
hands. As agreed a bird to me about his morning song, and from the nearest tree replied another,
until it twittering, tirlierend and fluting by all branches sounded - a jubilant greeting to
the victorious sun. Stretched deep sigh of relief I extended the arms and chest, and suddenly
I was glad that I was not as a young man with all the big rich life
ahead of me.

In rapturous ecstasy I fell at the altar of good luck in his knees and prayed to the immortals,
whose I meant to feel breathless.

That same day I went with Grandma to the women plan to Goethe's town house in the last visit to his name, who
was her childhood friend. Quiet and withdrawn, the anxiously guarding against contact with the
world, Walter Goethe lived up in the gable room his deceased mother. A large picture hung in the
reception room of the poet, and it crushed the little room and even more the small, poor descendant
of it. I could not believe it, that this was a Goethe! Only when the two friends talking, I felt
the other World from which they came. How warm and genuine, the feelings, which they borrowed
words how lively the interests that they took part - so his name was no longer together, where
feeling a mockery and was blase trump.

The longer we stayed in Weimar, the more I felt his spirit. Of course, the people, that perverted
grandmother, were all old, all their contemporaries, and yet, because they faithfully their youth,
were young soul. There was the uncle, in which we lived, a man from that simple Distinction
that is only the sign of true culture, there was the Grand Duke and his passionate Weimar's love for
tradition to which he subordinated humble themselves, everywhere for spiritual Values ​​Umschau
entertaining and delighting the finds, as a collector of his treasures: there were Women invited
the enthusiastic and inspiring not name and title and colorful uniforms
to guest, but leading spirits, and become pregnant.

I thawed gradually in this environment and learned, without fear of being laughed at or to the astonished
silence of the others, talk about what interested me, and ask for what I desired to know.
The Intent fortified in me: I no longer wanted to go back into the world of convention and the
cool phrase, where fixed locks are from heart and mouth condition of good education.

Grandma spoke of a future Hofdamenposten for me.

So entirely to my taste was not, however, from all the aunts and cousins ​​who had held him,
I knew how more oppressive servitude he brought with him.

But it seemed much better after all, to be dependent in Weimar, as a garrison to another, always
in the same atmosphere Lieutenant . Live I secretly harbored dreams would mature poets here might
be able, and very appeared in secret to a romantic hope: to find him here, the fairy-tale Swan
Knight, which should include my heart!

Towards the end of our stay, I went back with Grandma to Walter Goethe. He was unusually friendly
to me and fulfilled without further my desire to go alone in Goethe's Room to be allowed. I
closed on me and opened the small shops and then stood still and silent with folded hands before
the chair where he died in his bed. As one who forth to battle and takes leave, unsure if he
ever returns was, I felt. Goethe's prayer came to me involuntarily to the lips, "Give me great
thoughts and a pure heart.

I might look pale and tearful enough when we left, saw me worried grandma to: "Are not you well,
my child?"

Then I became conscious of what I owed her everything: At the hot spring miracle she had led me,
my body healed, and she had opened up the sources that my soul nourished. With both hands
I reached for her hand and pressed his lips to it, "I am very, very healthy, Grandma! "

Chapter Nine

On the way to Pirgallen we made a number of relatives station. I felt before, as I had been thrown
from a dizzy height of mountains in humid lowlands. "We have a cousin trip behind us: in Saxony,
in the marrow, in Pomerania - everywhere the same impact Rurals, depending on the size of the purse
real or fake überfirnißt, all the same sovereign contempt of spiritual values ​​- "I wrote to my cousin
Mathilde. "My cousins Inger in Hausen - incidentally a pompous palace, which Augustus the
Strong, its builder, all Honor it - who suffered earlier at an alarming fear of water, are Gigerl par excellence
become mature garde. Her sister, a Venus de Milo, has been married at seventeen, having a child
after the other, and the fatal train around the mouth, which I had with any young Wife had discovered,
I think it's the disappointment. A couple of childhood friends, I again, and to me a year and
a day with all the signs of triumph - she had I even hit the man in the running for a few horse lengths!
- Announced their engagement had occurred to me now as against pregnant women: pale, sullen.
I would now like my hand triumph, but the compassion for the poor worms that they temper with
such venom wear under her heart, was predominant. A woman who is expecting a child should be like a champion!
"

I was relieved when we were finally in Pirgallen where I hoped my studies and my All up to work.
There had been many changes. My uncle had had himself elected to the Reichstag - much persuasion
on his party comrades, because within him stirred too much the old man feel of the East German
Junkers when it would not have him reluctant, through universal suffrage
after all set equality between master and slave only externally recognized.

That he, his dealings with subordinates only the commands, reprimands and punishments existed, depending
on their favor was, even to them Advertise had appeared to him as a disgrace. He was there such
a staunch conservative, honest, so convinced of this that any expansion of freedom and the
rights of lower classes their own destruction would turn out that he thought he was perfectly justified,
even by unlawful means the influence of liberal or even social-democratic tendencies to . Combat
His former pastoralists, a notorious drunkard, who voted Social Democrat was because "the baron
the innkeeper had forbidden him more than two glasses of liquor to To give, "he used his mother
over and over again to quote when the" right to defending personal conviction. " "Nothing else knew the
guy from social democracy," he said he "could not read or write. Anyone who gives him booze,
the 'belief' he has. Imagine, all pastoralists and the likes how he voted and came to power, -
A nice economy would this And when Grandma interjected: "So give the people a better Education, "he replied,"
So that everyone will Instmannsjunge professor and no longer work will! Then we should probably put
our women in front of the pail and us behind the plow ? Make "

"Perhaps such a change would correspond to the divine justice," Grandma said with a smile, "For
centuries they walked behind the plow - the end is now the turn of you," With! hochgeschwollener
forehead vein uncle jumped from his chair and threw the door behind
him.

He was more irritable than usual to clear the new time to beat the heavy gate of Pirgallen, and he had
the drawbridge, the unwelcome guests resisted the entrance, in a firm, Stone transformed. He
had all his influence with the government effort made to ensure the railways was past him down the
port built on the Curonian Spit in his Gutsgrenze am. Now the stones were too distant buildings
are kidnapped on the Baltic Sea, and that the proceeds his estate took place in Berlin wealthy
buyers - but new thoughts were with the introduced foreign engineers and workers. He strove to
his property, the malnourished and his father was right to turn into a capitalist enterprise,
from the millions he expected. But with the machines, with the channels, the Wiesenmeliorationen,
the new construction methods, all over the intensive type of farming came droves of new Workers
into the country from which the old residents views and needs quickly, handicraft and understanding
but slowly learned so much. Dissatisfaction rampant like weeds, and the most abundant in the small thatched
cottages, whose inhabitants for generations in the service the Golzow stood.

In one of the oldest old Maruschka lived with children and grandchildren,
a shriveled, trembling term Female.

How brown spruce bark were her cheeks and forehead, the eyes sunken, white and yellow resin
such as hidden holes. Only when she saw grandma, she took the thin lips into a grin. Years ago I
had, since her earliest girlhood in the castle served, nor in one of the darkest areas, close
to the water ditch, from morning to evening Sitting in front of the stately old loom see. All
maids wore the substances they wove: fixed hard, coarse blue and red threads. The "young baroness,"
she had to retire set - they needed the room, and the pretty maids wore the old-fashioned
Stuff no more. Now the old man hated the new age and all they had with him. At its schwälenden stove
fire in the narrow room with the gray greasy dirt floor, where chickens, geese, Piglets and
kids cackled confused squealed and cried out, was the refuge of the Murr ends. They rushed
to the timid who were still in blind obedience to the rule, They praised the disobedient, and
despite all their wretchedness always ready to drink for those in the pitcher with the "new"
the "Urban" does not want to sit together.

Her youngest son, Franz, was groom for my uncle to his skill often valuable horses left. One evening
he saw that the "Delilah," which had to move the Franz will, was dripping with sweat and without
a blanket in her box, while next to his bed sleeping off his drunkenness.

Before I that I stood by it, could prevent it, I rushed Uncle's whip
across his face.

Staggering, he got up and saw my uncle with stupid Eyes and fell at his feet crying. I wanted to
turn away even outraged - outraged nor the coward who whined to me
that the uncle - than me from the corner of my eye the hit Crouching
on the floor a look, like that of a wild animal.

The next morning was one of the mares died in the paddock. None of us doubted that the perpetrators
Franz , I was that I remained obstinately silent, least. All of his colleagues, however, were
on his side and drew the suspicion of the canal workers. To prove, however, was nothing. Uncle
Walter dismissed the servant and forbade him emphatically the floor again Pirgallens to enter.
We were sitting in the hall for breakfast, unannounced, when the old Maruschke on the steps appeared, the
shriveled brown hands clasped over her cane, Sunday best in homespun,
wound the hoary head of a black cloth, the small amber eyes sparkling
directed at us, like the witch from the fairy tale forest.

"Forgive the gracious reign," she began in a halting voice -

"What
do you want, Maruschke?"

Asked Grandma, her gracious hand against stretching, while Uncle
impatiently cleared his throat.

Oh mai allerkutestes gracious mistress,
"- the old woman collapsed sobbing in front of their former Mistress
humiliating and pulled down her skirt to his lips, "May the Perdchen
Jung, the love kute Perdchen, stabbed non! Send it to non residents!
May's father, grandfather mai, mai ancestor - all, all have served
your lordship, body and soul - chic We continued non! "Her voice was
raspy voices like Raven when in the autumn on the stubble fields .
Sit

"My son sends you away so do not Maruschke," replied Grandma.
"Only one of your children, and - if he performs well out there -
"and looked pleadingly Grandma to Uncle Walter over - "he can certainly
come back home."

The old man sat up. Silently she looked from one
to another. The highest development of this cult in America was reached in Mexico and Peru. In both
these countries, which had worked out a noteworthy civilization, the solar cult became supreme,
and in Peru it attained an ethical and universalistic form which entitles it to rank among
the best religious systems of the lower civilized nations.[1219]

+712+. The Egyptians, with their more advanced civilization, finally carried sun-worship to
a very high point of perfection. The hymns to Ra, the sun-god, reached the verge of monotheism
and are ethically high, yet traces of the physical side of the sun appear throughout.[1220]
The same thing is true of the old Semitic sun-cult. The Babylonian and Assyrian Shamash is
in certain respects an independent deity with universal attributes, but retains also some of
the physical characteristics of the sun.[1221] In Africa, outside of Egypt, the only trace
of an independent sun-god appears to be in Dahomi, where, however, he is not prominent; why
such a god should not be found in the neighboring countries of Ashanti and Yoruba is not clear;
climatic conditions would affect all these countries alike.[1222]

+713+. In the Veda the sun-god Savitar has a very distinguished position as ethical deity,
but earlier than he the similar figure Surya represents more nearly the physical sun, and this
is true perhaps also of Mitra.[1223] With the latter it is natural to compare the Avestan Mithra;
he is held by some to have been originally a god of light, but he seems also to have characteristics
of the sun in the Avesta,[1224] and in late Persian the word mihr ('sun') indicates that he
was at any rate finally identified with the sun. It is noteworthy that a distinct sun-worship
is reported among certain non-Aryan tribes of India, particularly the Khonds;[1225] this cult
may be compared with that of the Natchez mentioned above,[1226] though the Khonds are less
socially advanced than these American tribes.

+714+. The cultic history of the moon is similar to that of the sun, but in general far less
important. In addition to its charm as illuminer of the night, it has been prominent as a measurer
of time--lunar calendars appear among many tribes and nations, uncivilized (Maoris, Hawaiians,
Dahomi, Ashanti and Yorubans, Nandi, Congo tribes, Bantu, Todas, and others) and civilized
(the early Babylonians, Assyrians, Hebrews, Greeks, Romans, perhaps the early Egyptians, and
now all Mohammedan peoples). Naturally it has been associated with the sun in myths, standing
to it in the relation of brother or sister, husband or wife. Among existing noncivilized peoples
it sometimes receives worship as a god[1227] or as connected with a god.[1228] In these cases
it retains to a great extent its character as an object of nature. So the Greek Selenē and
the Roman Luna, standing alongside of the lunar gods proper, probably indicate an early imperfect
deification of the moon.

+715+. Though the stars were generally regarded, both among savages and in ancient civilized
communities, as animated (possessed of souls), and in a sort divine,[1229] instances of the
deification proper of particular stellar bodies are rare. In Egypt they were reverenced, but
apparently not worshiped.[1230] The Babylonian astronomers and astrologers began early to connect
the planets with the great gods (Jupiter with Marduk, Venus with Ishtar, etc.), and stars,
like other heavenly bodies, were held by them to be divine, but a specific divinization of
a star or planet does not appear in the known literature.[1231] The same thing is true of China,
where, it may be supposed, reverence for the stars was included in the general high position
assigned to Heaven.[1232] In the Aryan Hindu cults stars were revered, and by the non-Aryan
Gonds were worshiped, but there is no star-god proper.[1233]

+716+. In the Old Testament and the Apocrypha there are passages in which stars and planets
are referred to in a way that indicates some sort of a conception of them as divine: they are
said to have fought against Israel's enemies, and in the later literature they are (perhaps
by a poetical figure of speech) identified with foreign deities or with angels.[1234] But there
is no sign of Israelite worship offered them till the seventh century B.C., when, on the irruption
of Assyrian cults, incense is said to have been burned in the Jerusalem temple to the mazzalot
(probably the signs of the zodiac) and to all the host of heaven (the stars);[1235] and there
is still no creation of a star-god.[1236] The early Hebrews may have practiced some sort of
star-worship; there are traces of such a cult among their neighbors the Arabs.

+717+. The Arab personal name Abd ath-thuraiya, 'servant (worshiper) of the Pleiades,' testifies
to a real cult,[1237] though how far it involves a conception of the constellation as a true
individual deity it may be difficult to say. It has been supposed that the pre-Islamic Arabs
worshiped the planet Venus under the name Al-Uzza,[1238] but this is not certain. It is true
that they worshiped the morning star, and that ancient non-Arab writers identified the planet
with Al-Uzza because it was with this goddess that the Roman goddess Venus was generally identified
by foreigners. But Al-Uzza was an old Arabian local deity who gradually assumed great power
and influence, and it is certain that she could not have been originally a star. It must, therefore,
be considered doubtful whether the Arabs had a true star-god.

+718+. A well-defined instance of such a god is the Avestan Tistrya.[1239] His origin as an
object of nature appears plainly in his functions--he is especially a rain-god, and, as such,
a source of all blessings. Alongside of him stand three less well defined stellar Powers. 

"You are a brave little person," she said, "but awfully stupid you are! - The you never forget
the Friedrich! "

"If all my stupidity is - the consequences will I take upon myself."

"Well - all kinds of respect for your Kurage! - But - since the two of us to tolerate the truth
seem so can I tell frankly: your stupidity is not yet exhausted. Your conscience even loaded
with a crime. You have sealed the art ethical behavior. The Arts is art - no more, no less.
She has discovered a new beauty the truth - the ugliness of my account
- which must represent.

In word, in visual, Ton. But better use and do not want them, they should not. "

"Maybe that's not their intention.

The flower blooms and smells and is nice and accomplished even if they did not want to be the
fruit. But the fruit is without its Intention. "

It twitched ironically around the mouth of my companion. "Your comparison is misleading. The flower
must die, the fruit should be derived. But art is always blooming and fruit and flower same time.
"
We had come over hardly made roads, past fields of potatoes up to
the old lime tree, the middle of the intersection of Kurfürstendamm
and the Tauenzienstraße stand, a last Witness to the past, where the
lurking snake, the nature of the city not yet had strangled the last
bit into her embrace. We can see
that there has been a scientific movement of separation of gods from phenomena. There is the
distinct recognition not only of the difference between man and physical nature, but also of
the difference between phenomena and the powers that control them.[1243] At the same time there
is an increasing belief in the predominance of reason in the government of the world, and along
with this a larger conception of the greatness of the world and finally of its unity. The Count
Währing, the brother of my great-grandmother, had heard the castle, which, with its gardens vineyards
and dominated the town. Now his widow lived, an eighty year old woman up there, no one who looked
her age, and of which we were often for weeks as guests. As a marchioness from the eighteenth
century it was to look at: small, petite, bubbly of spirit and life, with tiny white hands covered
with jewels, all sorts of rare Pet Stuff - white Angora cats, lean greyhounds, curly Miniature
Pinscher - around him. She used to always be surrounded with youth - is it enough that the mirror
it to her Age remembered, she said. The great, it walked around them, the more they love stories
weave to be seen, the happier she was.


