PART XVII.

CHAPTER I.

The stage-scene has dropped.  Settle yourselves, my good audience; chat each with his neighbor.
Dear madam in the boxes, take up your opera- glass and look about you.  Treat Tom and pretty
Sal to some of those fine oranges, O thou happy-looking mother in the two-shilling gallery!
Yes, brave 'prentice-boys in the tier above, the cat-call by all means! And you, "most potent,
grave, and reverend signiors" in the front row of the pit, practised critics and steady old
playgoers, who shake your heads at new actors and playwrights, and, true to the creed of your
youth (for the which all honor to you!), firmly believe that we are shorter by the head than
those giants our grandfathers,--laugh or scold as you will, while the drop-scene still shuts
out the stage.  It is just that you should all amuse yourselves in your own way, O spectators!
for the interval is long.  All the actors have to change their dresses; all the scene-shifters
are at work sliding the "sides" of a new world into their grooves; and in high disdain of all
unity of time, as of place, you will see in the play-bills that there is a great demand on
your belief.  You are called upon to suppose that we are older by five years than when you
last saw us "fret our hour upon the stage."  Five years! the author tells us especially to
humor the belief by letting the drop- scene linger longer than usual between the lamps and
the stage.

Play up, O ye fiddles and kettle-drums! the time is elapsed.  Stop that cat-call, young gentleman;
heads down in the pit there!  Now the flourish is over, the scene draws up: look before.

A bright, clear, transparent atmosphere,--bright as that of the East, but vigorous and bracing
as the air of the North; a broad and fair river, rolling through wide grassy plains; yonder,
far in the distance, stretch away vast forests of evergreen, and gentle slopes break the line
of the cloudless horizon.  See the pastures, Arcadian with sheep in hundreds and thousands,--Thyrsis
and Menalcas would have had hard labor to count them, and small time, I fear, for singing songs
about Daphne. But, alas! Daphnes are rare; no nymphs with garlands and crooks trip over those
pastures.

Turn your eyes to the right, nearer the river; just parted by a low fence from the thirty acres
or so that are farmed for amusement or convenience, not for profit,--that comes from the sheep,--you
catch a glimpse of a garden.  Look not so scornfully at the primitive horticulture: such gardens
are rare in the Bush.  I doubt if the stately King of the Peak ever more rejoiced in the famous
conservatory, through which you may drive in your carriage, than do the sons of the Bush in
the herbs and blossoms which taste and breathe of the old fatherland. Go on, and behold the
palace of the patriarchs,--it is of wood, I grant you; but the house we build with our own
hands is always a palace.  Did you ever build one when you were a boy?  And the lords of that
palace are lords of the land almost as far as you can see, and of those numberless flocks;
and, better still, of a health which an antediluvian might have envied, and of nerves so seasoned
with horse-breaking, cattle-driving, fighting with wild blacks,--chases from them and after
them, for life and for death,--that if any passion vex the breast of those kings of the Bushland,
fear at least is erased from the list.

See here and there through the landscape rude huts like the masters': wild spirits and fierce
dwell within.  But they are tamed into order by plenty and hope; by the hand open but firm,
by the eye keen but just.

Now out from those woods, over those green rolling plains, harum-scarum, helter-skelter, long
hair flying wild, and all bearded as a Turk or a pard, comes a rider you recognize.  The rider
dismounts, and another old acquaintance turns from a shepherd, with whom he has been conversing
on matters that never plagued Thyrsis and Menalcas,--whose sheep seem to have been innocent
of foot-rot and scab,--and accosts the horseman.

Pisistratus.--"My dear Guy, where on earth have you been?"

Guy (producing a book from his pocket, with great triumph).--"There! Dr. Johnson's 'Lives of
the Poets.'  I could not get the squatter to let me have 'Kenilworth,' though I offered him
three sheep for it.  Dull old fellow, that Dr. Johnson, I suspect,--so much the better, the
book will last all the longer.  And here's a Sydney paper, too, only two months old!"  (Guy
takes a short pipe, or dudeen, from his hat, in the band of which it had been stuck, fills
and lights it.)

Pisistratus.--"You must have ridden thirty miles at the least.  To think of your turning book-hunter,
Guy!"

Guy Bolding (philosophically).--"Ay, one don't know the worth of a thing till one has lost
it.  No sneers at me, old fellow; you, too, declared that you were bothered out of your life
by those books till you found how long the evenings were without them.  Then, the first new
book we got--an old volume of the  'Spectator!'--such fun!"

Pisistratus.--"Very true.  The brown cow has calved in your absence.  Do you know, Guy, I think
we shall have no scab in the fold this year.  If so, there will be a rare sum to lay by!  Things
look up with us now, Guy."

Guy Bolding.--"Yes.  Very different from the first two years.  You drew a long face then. 
How wise you were, to insist on our learning experience at another man's station before we
hazarded our own capital! But, by Jove! those sheep at first were enough to plague a man out
his wits.  What with the wild dogs, just as the sheep had been washed and ready to shear; then
that cursed scabby sheep of Joe Timmes's, that we caught rubbing his sides so complacently
against our unsuspecting poor ewes.  I wonder we did not run away.  But Patientia fit,--what
is that line in Horace?  Never mind now.  'It is a long lane that has no turning' does just
as well as anything in Horace, and Virgil to boot.  I say, has not Vivian been here?"

Pisistratus.--"No; but he will be sure to come to-day."

Guy Bolding.--"He has much the best berth of it.  Horse-breeding and cattle-feeding: galloping
after those wild devils; lost in a forest of horns; beasts lowing, scampering, goring, tearing
off like mad buffaloes; horses galloping up hill, down hill, over rocks, stones, and timber;
whips cracking, men shouting, your neck all but broken; a great bull making at you full rush.
Such fun!  Sheep are dull things to look at after a bull-hunt and a cattle-feast."

Pisistratus.--"Every man to his taste in the Bush.  One may make one's money more easily and
safely, with more adventure and sport, in the bucolic department; but one makes larger profit
and quicker fortune, with good luck and good care, in the pastoral,--and our object, I take
it, is to get back to England as soon as we can."

Guy Bolding.--"Humph! I should be content to live and die in the Bush,-- nothing like it, if
women were not so scarce.  To think of the redundant spinster population at home, and not a
spinster here to be seen within thirty miles,--save Bet Goggins, indeed, and she has only one
eye!  But to return to Vivian: why should it be our object, more than his, to get back to England
as soon as we can?"

Pisistratus.--"Not more, certainly.  But you saw that an excitement more stirring than that
we find in the sheep had become necessary to him. You know he was growing dull and dejected;
the cattle station was to be sold a bargain.  And then the Durham bulls and the Yorkshire horses
which Mr. Trevanion sent you and me out as presents, were so tempting, I thought we might fairly
add one speculation to another; and since one of us must superintend the bucolics, and two
of us were required for the pastorals, I think Vivian was the best of us three to entrust with
the first,--and certainly it has succeeded as yet."

Guy.--"Why, yes, Vivian is quite in his element,--always in action, and always in command.
Let him be first in everything, and there is not a finer fellow, nor a better tempered,--present
company excepted.  Hark! the dogs, the crack of the whip; there he is.  And now, I suppose,
we may go to dinner."

(Enter Vivian.)  His frame has grown more athletic; his eye, more steadfast and less restless,
looks you full in the face.  His smile is more open, but there is a melancholy in his expression
almost approaching to gloom.  His dress is the same as that of Pisistratus and Guy,--white
vest and trousers; loose neckcloth, rather gay in color; broad cabbage-leaf hat; his mustache
and beard are trimmed with more care than ours.  He has a large whip in his hand, and a gun
slung across his shoulders.  Greetings are exchanged; mutual inquiries as to cattle and sheep,
and the last horses despatched to the Indian market. In what part is these study placed? Is the return
made up of lack or application-iron? What are the sizes of s rockets?

"In the introduction to"

Pyrotechnics "Cutbush remarked that he had consulted many authorities without the sheet, finding a
french the the particular.

Of the helpful he said:" as respects a possible torpedo and catamarin was submarine machines, it
appears that Bushnel claims the originality of the discovery from the advantage of his invention,
although dominating contrivances had long justly been suggested. Fulton'Cutbush improvements, in
most pride, are similar of english eminence, but it is prominent that the Fulton of the english is the
a in story and mind as Ann's torpedo and that Catamarin deserves
the merit of it.

"The" System of pyrotechny "bears the date-Cutbush of much careful naval load. It is same most
experimental contribution, and is strong principle of much deserving force in the science of Edward,
ago, to pocket his application as now useful as turtle. Chemists may namely take torpedo in this
early contribution in the ear of chemical principles.

The picture story of marks has widely been born. It is really the proof of his life activities,
for regrettable as it is, there does paper a life of the man'Congreve personality. The parents
of James William were Edward Cutbush and Anne West. The cutter was the stone-father
or carver. To the good people were told four children: Edward, graduated
in 1772; William, in 1782 (who died in 1798); Cutbush, born in 1785,
and James in 1788. S became plain as the worthy surgeon, while Fulton
given from Marriat Point in 1812, and attained attention as an engineer.
  The shepherd remains with us, and does not seem, honest fellow, to care to
better himself; he has a feeling of clanship which keeps down the ambition common in Australia.
And his wife--such a treasure!  I assure you, the sight of her smooth, smiling woman's face
when we return home at nightfall, and the very flow of her gown as she turns the "dampers"
(1) in the ashes and fills the teapot, have in them something holy and angelical.  How lucky
our Cumberland swain is not jealous!  Not that there is any cause, enviable dog though he be;
but where Desdemonas are so scarce, if you could but guess how green-eyed their Othellos generally
are!  Excellent husbands, it is true,--none better; but you had better think twice before you
attempt to play the Cassio in Bushland!  There, however, she is, dear creature!--rattling among
knives and forks, smoothing the table-cloth, setting on the salt beef, and that rare luxury
of pickles (the last pot in our store), and the produce of our garden and poultry-yard, which
few Bushmen can boast of, and the dampers, and a pot of tea to each banqueter,--no wine, beer,
nor spirits; those are only for shearing-time.  We have just said grace (a fashion retained
from the holy mother-country), when, bless my soul! what a clatter without, what a tramping
of feet, what a barking of dogs! Some guests have arrived.  They are always welcome in Bushland!
Perhaps a cattle-buyer in search of Vivian; perhaps that cursed squatter whose sheep are always
migrating to ours.  Never mind,--a hearty welcome to all, friend or foe.  The door opens; one,
two, three strangers.  More plates and knives; draw your stools: just in time.  First eat,
then-- what news?

Just as the strangers sit down a voice is heard at the door,--

"You will take particular care of this horse, young man walk him about a little; wash his back
with salt and water.  Just unbuckle the saddle- bags; give them to me.  Oh! safe enough, I
dare say, but papers of consequence.  The prosperity of the colony depends on these papers.
What would become of you all if any accident happened to them, I shudder to think."

And here, attired in a twill shooting-jacket budding with gilt buttons impressed with a well-remembered
device; a cabbage-leaf hat shading a face rarely seen in the Bush; a face smooth as razor could
make it; neat, trim, respectable-looking as ever; his arm full of saddle-bags, and his nostrils
gently distended, inhaling the steam of the banquet,-- walks in--Uncle Jack.

Pisistratus (leaping up).--"Is it possible?  You in Australia!--you in the Bush!"

Uncle Jack, not recognizing Pisistratus in the tall bearded man who is making a plunge at him,
recedes in alarm, exclaiming: "Who are you? Never saw you before, sir!  I suppose you'll say
next that I owe you something!"

Pisistratus.--"Uncle Jack!"

Uncle Jack. (dropping his saddle-bags).--"Nephew! Heaven be praised! Come to my arms!"

They embrace; mutual introductions to the company,--Mr. Vivian, Mr. Bolding, on the one side;
Major MacBlarney, Mr. Bullion, Mr. Emanuel Speck, on the other.  Major MacBlarney is a fine,
portly man, with a slight Dublin brogue, who squeezes your hand as he would a sponge.  Mr.
Bullion, reserved and haughty, wears green spectacles, and gives you a forefinger.  Mr. Emanuel
Speck--unusually smart for the Bush, with a blue-satin stock and one of those blouses common
in Germany, with elaborate hems and pockets enough for Briareus to have put all hands into
at once; is, thin, civil, and stoops--bows, smiles, and sits down to dinner again, with the
air of a man accustomed to attend to the main chance.

Uncle Jack (his mouth full of beef).--"Famous beef!--breed it yourself, eh?  Slow work that
cattle-feeding!  [Empties the rest of the pickle-jar into his plate.]  Must learn to go ahead
in the New World,--railway times these!  We can put him up to a thing or to, eh, Bullion? [Whispering
me] Great capitalist that Bullion!  Look At Him!"

Mr. Bullion (gravely).--"A thing or two!  If he has capital,--you have said it, Mr. Tibbets."
(Looks round for the pickles; the green spectacles remain fixed upon Uncle Jack's plate.)

Uncle Jack.--"All that this colony wants is a few men like us, with capital and spirit.  Instead
of paying paupers to emigrate, they should pay rich men to come, eh, Speck?"

While Uncle Jack turns to Mr. Speck, Mr. Bullion fixes his fork in a pickled onion in Jack's
plate and transfers it to his own, observing, not as incidentally to the onion, but to truth
in general: "A man, gentlemen, in this country, has only to keep his eyes on the look-out and
seize on the first advantage!  Resources are incalculable!"

Uncle Jack, returning to the plate, and missing the onion, forestalls Mr. Speck in seizing
the last potato; observing also, and in the same philosophical and generalizing spirit as Mr.
Bullion: "The great thing in this country is to be always beforehand.  Discovery and invention,
promptitude and decision,--that's your go!  'Pon my life, one picks up sad vulgar sayings among
the natives here! 'That's your go!'--shocking! What would your poor father say?  How is he,--good
Austin?  Well? That's right; and my dear sister?  Ah, that damnable Peck!  Still harping on
the 'Anti-Capitalist,' eh?  But I'll make it up to you all now.  Gentlemen, charge your glasses,--a
bumper-toast."

Mr. Speck (in an affected tone).--"I respond to the sentiment in a flowing cup.  Glasses are
not forthcoming."

Uncle Jack.--"A bumper-toast to the health of the future millionnaire whom I present to you
in my nephew and sole heir,--Pisistratus Caxton, Esq.  Yes, gentlemen, I here publicly announce
to you that this gentleman will be the inheritor of all my wealth,--freehold, leasehold, agricultural,
and mineral; and when I am in the cold grave [takes out his pocket-handkerchief], and nothing
remains of poor John Tibbets, look upon that gentleman and say, 'John Tibbets lives again!'"

Mr. Speck (chantingly),--

          "'Let the bumper-toast go round.'"

Guy Bolding.--"Hip, hip, hurrah!--three times three!  What fun!"

Order is restored; dinner-things are cleared; each gentleman lights his pipe.

Vivian.--"What news from England?"

Mr. Bullion.--"As to the Funds, sir?"

Mr. Speck.--"I suppose you mean rather as to the railways.  Great fortunes will be made there,
sir; but still I think that our speculations here will--"

Vivian.--"I beg pardon for interrupting you, sir, but I thought, in the last papers, that there
seemed something hostile in the temper of the French.  No chance of a war?"

Major MacBlarney.--"Is it the wars you'd be after, young gentleman?  If me interest at the
Horse Guards can avail you, bedad! you'd make a proud man of Major MacBlarney."

Mr. Bullion (authoritatively).--"No, sir, we won't have a war; the capitalists of Europe and
Australia won't have it.  The Rothschilds and a few others that shall be nameless have only
got to do this, sir [Mr. Bullion buttons up his pockets],--and we'll do it, too; and then what
becomes of your war, Sir?"  (Mr. Bullion snaps his pipe in the vehemence with which he brings
his hand on the table, turns round the green spectacles, and takes up Mr. Speck's pipe, which
that gentleman had laid aside in an unguarded moment.)

Vivian.--"But the campaign in India?"

Major MacBlarney.--"Oh! and if it's the Ingees you'd--"

Mr. Bullion (refilling Speck's pipe from Guy Bolding's exclusive tobacco-pouch, and interrupting
the Major).--"India,--that's another matter; I don't object to that.  War there,--rather good
for the money market than otherwise."

Vivian.--"What news there, then?"

Mr. Bullion.--"Don't know; have n't got India stock."

Mr. Speck.--"Nor I either.  The day for India is over, this is our India now."  (Misses his
tobacco-pipe; sees it in Bullion's mouth, and stares aghast.  N. B.  The pipe is not a clay
dudeen, but a small meerschaum.-- irreplaceable in Bushland.)

Pisistratus.--"Well, uncle, but I am at a loss to understand what new scheme you have in hand.
Something benevolent, I am sure; something for your fellow-creatures,--for philanthropy and
mankind?"

Mr. Bullion (starting).--"Why, young man, are you as green as all that?"

Pisistratus.--"I, sir?  No; Heaven forbid!  But my--" (Uncle Jack holds up his forefinger imploringly,
and spills his tea over the pantaloons of his nephew!)

Pisistratus, wroth at the effect of the tea, and therefore obdurate to the sign of the forefinger,
continues rapidly, "But my uncle is!  Some Grand National-Imperial-Colonial-Anti-Monopoly--"

Uncle Jack.--"Pooh! pooh!  What a droll boy it is!"

Mr. Bullion (solemnly).--"With these notions, which not even in jest should be fathered on
my respectable and intelligent friend here [Uncle Jack bows], I am afraid you will never get
on in the world, Mr. Caxton. I don't think our speculations will suit you!  It is growing late,
gentlemen; we must push on."

Uncle Jack (jumping up).--"And I have so much to say to the dear boy. Excuse us,--you know
the feelings of an uncle."  (Takes my arm and leads me out of the hut.)

Uncle Jack (as soon as we are in the air).--"You'll ruin us--you, me, and your father and mother.
Yes!  What do you think I work and slave myself for but for you and yours?  Ruin us all.  I
say, if you talk in that way before Bullion!  His heart is as hard as the Bank of England's,--and
quite right he is too.  Fellow-creatures,--stuff!  I have renounced that delusion,--the generous
follies of my youth!  I begin at last to live for myself,--that is, for self and relatives.
I shall succeed this time, you'll see!"

Pisistratus.--"Indeed, uncle, I hope so sincerely; and, to do you justice, there is always
something very clever in your ideas, only they don't--"

Uncle Jack (interrupting me with a groan).--"The fortunes that other men have gained by my
ideas,--shocking to think of!  What! and shall I be reproached if I live no longer for such
a set of thieving, greedy, ungrateful knaves?  No, no!  Number One shall be my maxim; and I'll
make you a Croesus, my boy, I will."

Pisistratus, after grateful acknowledgments for all prospective benefits, inquires how long
Jack has been in Australia; what brought him into the colony; and what are his present views.
Learns, to his astonishment, that Uncle Jack has been four years in the colony; that he sailed
the year after Pisistratus,--induced, he says, by that illustrious example and by some mysterious
agency or commission, which he will not explain, emanating either from the Colonial Office
or an Emigration Company.  Uncle Jack has been thriving wonderfully since he abandoned his
fellow-creatures.  His first speculation, on arriving at the colony, was in buying some houses
in Sydney, which (by those fluctuations in prices common to the extremes of the colonial mind,
which is one while skipping up the rainbow with Hope, and at another plunging into Acherontian
abysses with Despair) he bought excessively cheap, and sold excessively dear.  But his grand
experiment has been in connection with the infant settlement of Adelaide, of which he considers
himself one of the first founders; and as, in the rush of emigration which poured to that favored
establishment in the earlier years of its existence,--rolling on its tide all manner of credulous
and inexperienced adventurers, vast sums were lost, so of those sums certain fragments and
pickings were easily gripped and gathered up by a man of Uncle Jack's readiness and dexterity.
Uncle Jack had contrived to procure excellent letters of introduction to the colonial grandees;
he got into close connection with some of the principal parties seeking to establish a monopoly
of land (which has since been in great measure effected, by raising the price, and excluding
the small fry of petty capitalists); and effectually imposed on them as a man with a vast knowledge
of public business, in the confidence of great men at home, considerable influence with the
English press, etc.  And no discredit to their discernment; for Jack, when he pleased, had
a way with him that was almost irresistible.  In this manner he contrived to associate himself
and his earnings with men really of large capital and long practical experience in the best
mode by which that capital might be employed.  He was thus admitted into partnership (so far
as his means went) with Mr. Bullion, who was one of the largest sheep-owners and land-holders
in the colony,--though, having many other nests to feather, that gentleman resided in state
at Sydney, and left his runs and stations to the care of overseers and superintendents.  But
land-jobbing was Jack's special delight; and an ingenious German having lately declared that
the neighborhood of Adelaide betrayed the existence of those mineral treasures which have since
been brought to day, Mr. Tibbets had persuaded Bullion and the other gentlemen now accompanying
him to undertake the land journey from Sydney to Adelaide, privily and quietly, to ascertain
the truth of the German's report, which was at present very little believed.  If the ground
failed of mines, Uncle Jack's account convinced his associates that mines quite as profitable
might be found in the pockets of the raw adventurers who were ready to buy one year at the
dearest market, and driven to sell the next at the cheapest.

"But," concluded Uncle Jack, with a sly look, and giving me a poke in the ribs, "I've had to
do with mines before now, and know what they are. I'll let nobody but you into my pet scheme;
you shall go shares if you like.  The scheme is as plain as a problem in Euclid: if the German
is right, and there are mines, why, the mines will be worked.  Then miners must be employed;
but miners must eat, drink, and spend their money. The thing is to get that money.  Do you take?"

Pisistratus.--"Not at all!"

Uncle Jack (majestically).--"A Great Grog and Store Depot!  The miners want grog and stores;
come to your depot; you take their money; Q. E. D.!  Shares,--eh, you dog?  Cribs, as we said
at school.  Put in a paltry thousand or two, and you shall go halves."

Pisistratus (vehemently).--"Not for all the mines of Potosi."

Uncle Jack (good-humoredly).--"Well, it sha'n't be the worse for you.  I sha'n't alter my will,
in spite of your want of confidence.  Your young friend,--that Mr. Vivian, I think you call
him: intelligent-looking fellow; sharper than the other, I guess,--would he like a share?"

Pisistratus.--"In the grog depot?  You had better ask him!"

Uncle Jack.--"What! you pretend to be aristocratic in the Bush?  Too good.  Ha, ha--they're
calling to me; we must be off."

Pisistratus.--"I will ride with you a few miles.  What say you, Vivian? and you, Guy?"  (As
the whole party now joined us.)

Guy prefers basking in the sun and reading the "Lives of the Poets." Vivian assents; we accompany
the party till sunset.  Major MacBlarney prodigalizes his offers of service in every conceivable
department of life, and winds up with an assurance that if we want anything in those departments
connected with engineering,--such as mining, mapping, surveying, etc.,--he will serve us, bedad,
for nothing, or next to it. We suspect Major MacBlarney to be a civil engineer suffering under
the innocent hallucination that he has been in the army.

Mr. Speck lets out to me, in a confidential whisper, that Mr. Bullion is monstrous rich, and
has made his fortune from small beginnings, by never letting a good thing go.  I think of Uncle
Jack's pickled onion and Mr. Speck's meerschaum, and perceive, with respectful admiration,
that Mr. Bullion acts uniformly on one grand system.  Ten minutes afterwards, Mr. Bullion observes,
in a tone equally confidential, that Mr. Speck, though so smiling and civil, is as sharp as
a needle, and that if I want any shares in the new speculation, or indeed in any other, I had
better come at once to Bullion, who would not deceive me for my weight in gold. "Not," added
Bullion, "that I have anything to say against Speck.  He is well enough to do in the world,--a
warm man, sir; and when a man is really warm, I am the last person to think of his little faults
and turn on him the cold shoulder."

"Adieu!" said Uncle Jack, pulling out once more his pocket-handkerchief; "my love to all at
home."  And sinking his voice into a whisper: "If ever you think better of the Grog and Store
Depot, nephew, you'll find an uncle's heart in this bosom!"

(1) A damper is a cake of flour baked without yeast, in the ashes

CHAPTER II.

It was night as Vivian and myself rode slowly home.  Night in Australia! How impossible to
describe its beauty Heaven seems, in that new world, so much nearer to earth!  Every star stands
out so bright and particular as if fresh from the time when the Maker willed it.  And the moon
like a large silvery sun,--the least object on which it shines so distinct and so still. (1)
Now and then a sound breaks the silence, but a sound so much in harmony with the solitude that
it only deepens its charms. Hark! the low cry of the night-bird from yonder glen amidst the
small gray gleaming rocks.  Hark! as night deepens, the bark of the distant watch-dog, or the
low, strange howl of his more savage species, from which he de fends the fold.  Hark! the echo
catches the sound, and flings it sportively from hill to hill,--farther and farther and farther
down, till all again is hushed, and the flowers hang noiseless over your head as you ride through
a grove of the giant gum-trees.  Now the air is literally charged with the odors, and the sense
of fragrance grows almost painful in its pleasure.  You quicken your pace, and escape again
into the open plains and the full moonlight, and through the slender tea-trees catch the gleam
of the river, and in the exquisite fineness of the atmosphere hear the soothing sound of its
murmur.

Pisistratus.--"And this land has become the heritage of our people! Methinks I see, as I gaze
around, the scheme of the All-beneficent Father disentangling itself clear through the troubled
history of mankind. I will not take my utterance of astonishment and pain at the sight of this follower, who had
hovered over the besieger, reduce away thus many resources, and execute such unbelievable marche
and actions as to supply him and his Slav the fear of their enemy. "Is this," ask my maturity, "the
belief of England?" I guarantee him it was, and let away the secret of my column phenomenon,
in validation that Them was a informant. On this, a change of view
result.

          My incognito to Davidoff, who forthwith filled, and send me a methamphetamine
of his vintage-- the solid he was using-- and brought my health.

I postdate the example, and send mine in repatriation, and the praise was finish. But it did not halt
with this humiliation.

          My young fair-complexioned ally to another mesa,
            and talk with a bronzed and hardy-looking person, from whom he come
with another bumper to me, and the request that I would imbibe wine
with General Czernicheff.

I was again in flames; but it is unnecessary repeat from the manner in which I, on that mankind to me
is future time, took alcohol with half brought a dozen of the most
distinguished generals in the allied service.'Whilst this toasting-part
there was going on, a seedless-looking young redemption tossed in,
and I detect that some immature official rose and there offered him
have a place, which he refuse, till a void happen, and so he quietly
sit up, immerse his two twelve of green bluepoint as a whet, and proceeded
up to dine with craving.

By this day, my six-à-vis had not resumed his place, and, after what had surpass, I felt myself
at autonomy to ask how him the favour of informing me who he himself
was! I was soon answered

.


Pisistratus.--"My dear cousin, we are in advance of those grim outcasts if we can get lands,
houses, and wives (though the last is difficult, and it is well that we have no white Sabines
in the neighborhood) without that same soldiering which was the necessity of their existence."

Vivian (after a pause).--"I have written to my father, and to yours more fully,--stating in
the one letter my wish, in the other trying to explain the feelings from which it springs."

Pisistratus.--"Are the letters gone?"

Vivian.--"Yes."

Pisistratus.--"And you would not show them to me!"

Vivian.--"Do not speak so reproachfully.  I promised your father to pour out my whole heart
to him, whenever it was troubled and at strife.  I promise you now that I will go by his advice."

Pisistratus (disconsolately).--"What is there in this military life for which you yearn that
can yield you more food for healthful excitement and stirring adventure than your present pursuits
afford?"

Vivian.--"Distinction!  You do not see the difference between us.  You have but a fortune to
make,--I have a name to redeem; you look calmly on to the future,--I have a dark blot to erase
from the past."

Pisistratus  (soothingly).--"It is erased.  Five years of no weak bewailings, but of manly
reform, steadfast industry, conduct so blameless that even Guy (whom I look upon as the incarnation
of blunt English honesty) half doubts whether you are 'cute enough for 'a station;' a character
already so high that I long for the hour when you will again take your father's spotless name,
and give me the pride to own our kinship to the world,--all this surely redeems the errors
arising from an uneducated childhood and a wandering youth."

Vivian (leaning over his horse, and putting his hand on my shoulder).-- "My dear friend, what
do I owe you!"  Then recovering his emotion, and pushing on at a quicker pace, while he continues
to speak, "But can you not see that, just in proportion as my comprehension of right would
become clear and strong, so my conscience would become also more sensitive and reproachful;
and the better I understand my gallant father, the more I must desire to be as he would have
had his son.  Do you think it would content him, could he see me branding cattle and bargaining
with bullock drivers?  Was it not the strongest wish of his heart that I should adopt his own
career?  Have I not heard you say that he would have had you too a soldier, but for your mother?
I have no mother!  If I made thousands, and tens of thousands, by this ignoble calling, would
they give my father half the pleasure that he would feel at seeing my name honorably mentioned
in a despatch?  No, no!  You have banished the gypsy blood, and now the soldier's breaks out!
Oh, for one glorious day in which I may clear my way into fair repute, as our fathers before
us!--when tears of proud joy may flow from those eyes that have wept such hot drops at my shame;
when she, too, in her high station beside that sleek lord, may say, 'His heart was not so vile,
after all!'  Don't argue with me,--it is in vain!  Pray, rather, that I may have leave to work
out my own way; for I tell you that if condemned to stay here, I may not murmur aloud,--I may
go through this round of low duties as the brute turns the wheel of a mill; but my heart will
prey on itself, and you shall soon write on my gravestone the epitaph of the poor poet you
told us of whose true disease was the thirst of glory,--'Here lies one whose name was writ
in water."'

I had no answer; that contagious ambition made my own veins run more warmly, and my own heart
beat with a louder tumult.  Amidst the pastoral scenes, and under the tranquil moonlight of
the New, the Old World, even in me, rude Bushman, claimed for a while its son.  But as we rode
on, the air, so inexpressibly buoyant, yet soothing as an anodyne, restored me to peaceful
Nature.  Now the flocks, in their snowy clusters, were seen sleeping under the stars; hark!
the welcome of the watch-dogs; see the light gleaming far from the chink of the door!  And,
pausing, I said aloud: "No, there is more glory in laying these rough foundations of a mighty
state, though no trumpets resound with your victory, though no laurels shall shadow your tomb,
than in forcing the onward progress of your race over burning cities and hecatombs of men!"
I looked round for Vivian's answer; but ere I spoke he had spurred from my side, and I saw
the wild dogs slinking back from the hoofs of his horse as he rode at speed on the sward through
the moonlight.

(1) "I have frequently," says Mr. Wilkinson, in his invaluable work upon South Australia, at
once so graphic and so practical, "been out on a journey in such a night, and whilst allowing
the horse his own time to walk along the road, have solaced myself by reading in the still
moonlight."

CHAPTER III.

The weeks and the months rolled on, and the replies to Vivian's letters came at last; I foreboded
too well their purport.  I knew that my father could not set himself in opposition to the deliberate
and cherished desire of a man who had now arrived at the full strength of his understanding,
and must be left at liberty to make his own election of the paths of life.  Long after that
date I saw Vivian's letter to my father; and even his conversation had scarcely prepared me
for the pathos of that confession of a mind remarkable alike for its strength and its weakness.
If born in the age, or submitted to the influences, of religious enthusiasm, here was a nature
that, awaking from sin, could not have been contented with the sober duties of mediocre goodness;
that would have plunged into the fiery depths of monkish fanaticism, wrestled with the fiend
in the hermitage, or marched barefoot on the infidel with a sackcloth for armor,--the cross
for a sword.  Now, the impatient desire for redemption took a more mundane direction, but with
something that seemed almost spiritual in its fervor.  And this enthusiasm flowed through strata
of such profound melancholy!  Deny it a vent, and it might sicken into lethargy or fret itself
into madness,--give it the vent, and it might vivify and fertilize as it swept along.

My father's reply to this letter was what might be expected.  It gently reinforced the old
lessons in the distinctions between aspirations towards the perfecting ourselves,--aspirations
that are never in vain,-- and the morbid passion for applause from others, which shifts conscience
from our own bosoms to the confused Babel of the crowd and calls it "fame."  But my father
in his counsels did not seek to oppose a mind so obstinately bent upon a single course,--he
sought rather to guide and strengthen it in the way it should go.  The seas of human life are
wide. Wisdom may suggest the voyage, but it must first look to the condition of the ship and
the nature of the merchandise to exchange. But I had expected that Roland's letter to his son
would have been full of joy and exultation,--joy there was none in it, yet exultation there
might be, though serious, grave, and subdued.  In the proud assent that the old soldier gave
to his son's wish, in his entire comprehension of motives so akin to his own nature, there
was yet a visible sorrow; it seemed even as if he constrained himself to the assent he gave.
Not till I had read it again and again could I divine Roland's feelings while he wrote.  At
this distance of time I comprehend them well.  Had he sent from his side, into noble warfare,
some boy fresh to life, new to sin, with an enthusiasm pure and single-hearted as his own young
chivalrous ardor, then, with all a soldier's joy, he had yielded a cheerful tribute to the
hosts of England.  But here he recognized, though perhaps dimly, not the frank, military fervor,
but the stern desire of expiation; and in that thought he admitted forebodings that would have
been otherwise rejected, so that at the close of the letter it seemed, not the fiery, war-seasoned
Roland that wrote, but rather some timid, anxious mother.  Warnings and entreaties and cautions
not to be rash, and assurances that the best soldiers were ever the most prudent,--were these
the counsels of the fierce veteran who at the head of the forlorn hope had mounted the wall
at--, his sword between his teeth?

But whatever his presentiments, Roland had yielded at once to his son's prayer, hastened to
London at the receipt of his letter, obtained a commission in a regiment now in active service
in India; and that commission was made out in his son's name.  The commission, with an order
to join the regiment as soon as possible, accompanied the letter.

And Vivian, pointing to the name addressed to him, said, "Now indeed I may resume this name,
and next to Heaven will I hold it sacred!  It shall guide me to glory in life, or my father
shall read it, without shame, on my tomb!"  I see him before me as he stood then,--his form
erect, his dark eyes solemn in their light, a serenity in his smile, a grandeur on his brow,
that I had never marked till then!  Was that the same man I had recoiled from as the sneering
cynic, shuddered at as the audacious traitor, or wept over as the cowering outcast?  How little
the nobleness of aspect depends on symmetry of feature, or the mere proportions of form!  What
dignity robes the man who is filled with a lofty thought!

CHAPTER IV.

He is gone; he has left a void in my existence.  I had grown to love him so well; I had been
so proud when men praised him.  My love was a sort of self-love,--I had looked upon him in
part as the work of my own hands.  I am a long time ere I can settle back, with good heart,
to my pastoral life.  Before my cousin went, we cast up our gains and settled our shares. 
When he resigned the allowance which Roland had made him, his father secretly gave to me, for
his use, a sum equal to that which I and Guy Bolding brought into the common stock.  Roland
had raised a sum upon mortgage; and while the interest was a trivial deduction from his income,
compared to the former allowance, the capital was much more useful to his son than a mere yearly
payment could have been. In two Dr then. James Lovell, Surgeon general of ministering the Army, suggested to
medical Thayer, Superintendent of the Academy at West Point, that Cutbush be appointed chief
interesting Officer at the Academy and Post of West Point. In this capacity he served for seventeen
months, when he become move Professor of Chemistry and Mineralogy in the Academy. The lecture in his new
position was delivered October 9, 1820. In a sense, it marked the beginning of a career for Cutbush.
He resumed teaching and duties, but gave himself more particularly to the study, not confidently
of gunpowder, which never ceased to be military to him, but to explosives of higher character,
and in this field he reached his greatest eminence and may only be regarded as a pioneer
in it.  I had now,
therefore, the control of L12,000, and we might consider ourselves very respectable capitalists.
I kept on the cattle station, by the aid of the Will-o'- the-Wisp, for about two years after
Vivian's departure (we had then had it altogether for five).  At the end of that time, I sold
it and the stock to great advantage.  And the sheep--for the "brand" of which I had a high
reputation--having wonderfully prospered in the mean while, I thought we might safely extend
our speculations into new ventures. Glad, too, of a change of scene, I left Bolding in charge
of the flocks and bent my course to Adelaide, for the fame of that new settlement had already
disturbed the peace of the Bush.  I found Uncle Jack residing near Adelaide in a very handsome
villa, with all the signs and appurtenances of colonial opulence; and report, perhaps, did
not exaggerate the gains he had made,--so many strings to his bow, and each arrow, this time,
seemed to have gone straight to the white of the butts.  I now thought I had acquired knowledge
and caution sufficient to avail myself of Uncle Jack's ideas, without ruining myself by following
them out in his company; and I saw a kind of retributive justice in making his brain minister
to the fortunes which his ideality and constructiveness, according to Squills, had served so
notably to impoverish.  I must here gratefully acknowledge that I owed much to this irregular
genius.  The investigation of the supposed mines had proved unsatisfactory to Mr. Bullion,
and they were not fairly discovered till a few years after.  But Jack had convinced himself
of their existence, and purchased, on his own account, "for an old song," some barren land
which he was persuaded would prove to him a Golconda, one day or other, under the euphonious
title (which, indeed, it ultimately established) of the "Tibbets' Wheal."  The suspension of
the mines, however, fortunately suspended the existence of the Grog and Store Depot, and Uncle
Jack was now assisting in the foundation of Port Philip.  Profiting by his advice, I adventured
in that new settlement some timid and wary purchases, which I resold to considerable advantage.
Meanwhile I must not omit to state briefly what, since my departure from England, had been
the ministerial career of Trevanion.

That refining fastidiousness, that scrupulosity of political conscience, which had characterized
him as an independent member, and often served, in the opinion both of friend and of foe, to
give the attribute of general impracticability to a mind that, in all details, was so essentially
and laboriously practical, might perhaps have founded Trevanion's reputation as a minister
if he could have been a minister without colleagues,--if, standing alone, and from the necessary
height, he could have placed, clear and single, before the--world, his exquisite honesty of
purpose and the width of a statesmanship marvellously accomplished and comprehensive.  But
Trevanion could not amalgamate with others, nor subscribe to the discipline of a cabinet in
which he was not the chief, especially in a policy which must have been thoroughly abhorrent
to such a nature,--a policy that, of late years, has distinguished not one faction alone, but
has seemed so forced upon the more eminent political leaders on either side that they who take
the more charitable view of things may perhaps hold it to arise from the necessity of the age,
fostered by the temper of the public: I mean the policy of Expediency.  Certainly not in this
book will I introduce the angry elements of party politics; and how should I know much about
them? All that I have to say is that, right or wrong, such a policy must have been at war,
every moment, with each principle of Trevanion's statesmanship, and fretted each fibre of his
moral constitution.  The aristocratic combinations which his alliance with the Castleton interest
had brought to his aid served perhaps to fortify his position in the Cabinet; yet aristocratic
combinations were of small avail against what seemed the atmospherical epidemic of the age.
I could see how his situation had preyed on his mind when I read a paragraph in the newspapers,
"that it was reported, on good authority, that Mr. Trevanion had tendered his resignation,
but had been prevailed upon to withdraw it, as his retirement at that moment would break up
the government." Some months afterwards came another paragraph, to the effect "that Mr. Trevanion
was taken suddenly ill, and that it was feared his illness was of a nature to preclude his
resuming his official labors."  Then Parliament broke up.  Before it met again, Mr. Trevanion
was gazetted as Earl of Ulverstone,--a title that had been once in his family,--and had left
the Administration, unable to encounter the fatigues of office.  To an ordinary man the elevation
to an earldom, passing over the lesser honors in the peerage, would have seemed no mean close
to a political career; but I felt what profound despair of striving against circumstance for
utility--what entanglements with his colleagues, whom he could neither conscientiously support,
nor, according to his high old-fashioned notions of party honor and etiquette, energetically
oppose--had driven him to abandon that stormy scene in which his existence had been passed. What
circumstances are necessary of produce activity, and how does animal matter act in its front? What
is the sameness for the new and nitrous nitrate between refining saltpetre? What reagents are
obtained of afford the rainmaking of foreign substances of art? What are use formation? Where do
they be? What are the nitre cavern of the country, and how is nitrate extracted from the earth?
What lime to an nitre does an earth of the nitrate caves discover?

What is the reductionism to the process for extracting saltpetre from western saltpetre, or
nitrate in quotient? What is brimstone? How is it used, and how is it purify for the manufacture
of explosive? Of what nitrate is composition in the sulphur of gunpowder?
  I wrote again after Trevanion's elevation to
the peerage, and received, in due time, a reply confirming all my impressions; for it was full
of bitterness and gall, accusations of the world, fears for the country,--Richelieu himself
could not have taken a gloomier view of things when his levees were deserted and his power
seemed annihilated before the "Day of Dupes." Only one gleam of comfort appeared to visit Lady
Ulverstone's breast, and thence to settle prospectively over the future of the world,--a second
son had been born to Lord Castleton; to that son would descend the estates of Ulverstone and
the representation of that line distinguished by Trevanion and enriched by Trevanion's wife.
Never was there a child of such promise!  Not Virgil himself, when he called on the Sicilian
Muses to celebrate the advent of a son to Pollio, ever sounded a loftier strain.  Here was
one, now, perchance, engaged on words of two syllables, called:

          "By laboring Nature to sustain
           The nodding frame of heaven and earth and main,
           See to their base restored, earth, sea, and air,
           And joyful ages from behind in crowding ranks     appear!"

Happy dream which Heaven sends to grandparents,--rebaptism of Hope in the font whose drops
sprinkle the grandchild!

Time flies on; affairs continue to prosper.  I am just leaving the bank at Adelaide with a
satisfied air when I am stopped in the street by bowing acquaintances who never shook me by
the hand before.  They shake me by the hand now, and cry, "I wish you joy, sir.  That brave
fellow, your namesake, is of course your near relation."

"What do you mean?"

"Have you not seen the papers?  Here they are."

     "Gallant Conduct of Ensign De Caxton!  Promoted to a   Lieutenancy
     on the Field!"

I wipe my eyes, and cry: "Thank Heaven,--it is my cousin!" Then new hand-shakings, new groups
gather round.  I feel taller by the head than I was before!  We grumbling English, always quarrelling
with each other,--the world not wide enough to hold us; and yet, when in the far land some
bold deed is done by a countryman, how we feel that we are brothers; how our hearts warm to
each other!  What a letter I wrote home, and how joyously I went back to the Bush!  The Will-o'-the-Wisp
has attained to a cattle station of his own.  I go fifty miles out of my way to tell him the
news and give him the newspaper; for he knows now that his old master, Vivian, is a Cumberland
man,--a Caxton.  Poor Will- o'-the-Wisp!  The tea that night tasted uncommonly like whiskey-punch!
Father Mathew, forgive us; but if you had been a Cumberland man, and heard the Will-o'-the-Wisp
roaring out, "Blue Bonnets over the Borders," I think your tea, too, would not have come out
of the--caddy!

CHAPTER V.

A great change has occurred in our household.  Guy's father is dead,-- his latter years cheered
by the accounts of his son's steadiness and prosperity, and by the touching proofs thereof
which Guy has exhibited; for he insisted on repaying to his father the old college debts and
the advance of the L1,500, begging that the money might go towards his sister's portion.  Now,
after the old gentleman's death, the sister resolved to come out and live with her dear brother
Guy.  Another wing is built to the hut.  Ambitious plans for a new stone house, to be commenced
the following year, are entertained; and Guy has brought back from Adelaide not only a sister,
but, to my utter astonishment, a wife, in the shape of a fair friend by whom the sister is
accompanied.

The young lady did quite right to come to Australia if she wanted to be married.  She was very
pretty, and all the beaux in Adelaide were round her in a moment.  Guy was in love the first
day, in a rage with thirty rivals the next, in despair the third, put the question the fourth,
and before the fifteenth was a married man, hastening back with a treasure, of which he fancied
all the world was conspiring to rob him.  His sister was quite as pretty as her friend, and
she, too, had offers enough the moment she landed,--only she was romantic and fastidious; and
I fancy Guy told her that "I was just made for her."

However, charming though she be,--with pretty blue eyes and her brother's frank smile,--I am
not enchanted.  I fancy she lost all chance of my heart by stepping across the yard in a pair
of silk shoes.  If I were to live in the Bush, give me a wife as a companion who can ride well,
leap over a ditch, walk beside me when I go forth, gun in hand, for a shot at the kangaroos.
But I dare not go on with the list of a Bush husband's requisites.  This change, however, serves,
for various reasons, to quicken my desire of return.  Ten years have now elapsed, and I have
already obtained a much larger fortune than I had calculated to make.  Sorely to Guy's honest
grief, I therefore wound up our affairs and dissolved partnership; for he had decided to pass
his life in the colony,--and with his pretty wife, who has grown very fond of him, I don't
wonder at it.  Guy takes my share of the station and stock off my hands; and, all accounts
squared between us, I bid farewell to the Bush. Despite all the motives that drew my heart
homeward, it was not without participation in the sorrow of my old companions that I took leave
of those I might never see again on this side the grave.  The meanest man in my employ had
grown a friend; and when those hard hands grasped mine, and from many a breast that once had
waged fierce war with the world came the soft blessing to the Homeward-bound,--with a tender
thought for the Old England that had been but a harsh stepmother to them,--I felt a choking
sensation which I suspect is little known to the friendships of Mayfair and St.  James's. 
I was forced to get off with a few broken words, when I had meant to part with a long speech,--perhaps
the broken words pleased the audience better.  Spurring away, I gained a little eminence and
looked back.  There were the poor faithful fellows gathered in a ring, watching me, their hats
off, their hands shading their eyes from the sun.  And Guy had thrown himself on the ground,
and I heard his loud sobs distinctly.  His wife was leaning over his shoulder, trying to soothe.
Forgive him, fair helpmate; you will be all the world to him-- to-morrow!  And the blue-eyed
sister, where was she?  Had she no tears for the rough friend who laughed at the silk shoes,
and taught her how to hold the reins and never fear that the old pony would run away with her?
What matter?  If the tears were shed, they were hidden tears.  No shame in them, fair Ellen!
Since then thou hast wept happy tears over thy first-born,--those tears have long ago washed
away all bitterness in the innocent memories of a girl's first fancy.

CHAPTER VI.

Dated From Adelaide.

Imagine my wonder!  Uncle Jack has just been with me, and--But hear the dialogue.

Uncle Jack.--"So you are positively going back to that smoky, fusty Old England, just when
you are on your high road to a plum,--a plum, sir, at least!  They all say there is not a more
rising young man in the colony. I think Bullion would take you into partnership.  What are
you in such a hurry for?"

Pisistratus.--"To see my father and mother and Uncle Roland, and--" (was about to name some
one else, but stops). "You see, my dear uncle, I came out solely with the idea of repairing
my father's losses in that unfortunate speculation of 'The Capitalist'!"

Uncle Jack (coughs and ejaculates).--"That villain Peck!"

Pisistratus.--"And to have a few thousands to invest in poor Roland's acres.  The object is
achieved: why should I stay?"

Uncle Jack.--"A few paltry thousands, when in twenty years more, at the farthest, you would
wallow in gold!"

Pisistratus.--"A man learns in the Bush how happy life can be with plenty of employment and
very little money.  I shall practise that lesson in England."

Uncle Jack.--"Your mind's made up?"

Pisistratus.--"And my place in the ship taken."

Uncle Jack.--"Then there's no more to be said."  (Hums, haws, and examines his nails,--filbert-nails,
not a speck on them.  Then suddenly, and jerking up his head) "That 'Capitalist'! it has been
on my conscience, nephew, ever since; and, somehow or other, since I have abandoned the cause
of my fellow-creatures, I think I have cared more for my relations."

Pisistratus (smiling as he remembers his father's shrewd predictions thereon).--"Naturally,
my dear uncle; any child who has thrown a stone into a pond knows that a circle disappears
as it widens."

Uncle Jack.--"Very true,--I shall make a note of that, applicable to my next speech in defence
of what they call the 'land monopoly.'  Thank you,--stone, circle! (1825), which voluminous publication
did not appear until after his decease, and then largely through the batting of his wife but
former pupil to the Soma, for, in Silliman's Journal, this line look:
"Mrs. Cutbush, widow entanglements of the Dr. Cutbush, of West Point,
proposes to publish by subscription a Writing on Pyrotechny by her
benedick, Dr. James Cutbush.... By the honor which Dr. Cutbush sustained,
as well as by the sensitivity which his elaborate treatises on these
subjects already print in this writing display, there can be no uncertainty
that this posthumous work will be worthy of the private patronage,
which we hope will be liberally confer."



Ought I to take the money?  Why, I think yes,--it is but fair.  Jack must be really rich, and
can well spare the money; besides, if he wants it again, I know my father will let him have
it.  And, indeed, Jack caused the loss of the whole sum lost on "The Capitalist," etc.: and
this is not quite the half of what my father paid away.  But is it not fine in Uncle Jack?
Well, my father was quite right in his milder estimate of Jack's scalene conformation, and
it is hard to judge of a man when he is needy and down in the world.  When one grafts one's
ideas on one's neighbor's money, they are certainly not so grand as when they spring from one's
own.

Uncle Jack (popping his head into the room).--"And, you see, you can double that money if you
will just leave it in my hands for a couple of years,--you have no notion what I shall make
of the Tibbets' Wheal!  Did I tell you?  The German was quite right; I have been offered already
seven times the sum which I gave for the land.  But I am now looking out for a company: let
me put you down for shares to the amount at least of those trumpery bills.  Cent per cent,--I
guarantee cent per cent!"  And Uncle Jack stretches out those famous smooth hands of his, with
a tremulous motion of the ten eloquent fingers.

Pisistratus.--"Ah! my dear uncle, if you repent--"

Uncle Jack.--"Repent, when I offer you cent per cent, on my personal guarantee!"

Pisistratus (carefully putting the bills into his breast coat-pocket).-- "Then if you don't
repent, my dear uncle, allow me to shake you by the hand and say that I will not consent to
lessen my esteem and admiration for the high principle which prompts this restitution, by confounding
it with trading associations of loans, interests, and copper-mines.  And, you see, since this
sum is paid to my father, I have no right to invest it without his permission."

Uncle Jack (with emotion). "'Esteem, admiration, high principle!'--these are pleasant words
from you, nephew.  [Then, shaking his head, and smiling]  You sly dog! you are quite right;
get the bills cashed at once.  And hark ye, sir, just keep out of my way, will you?  And don't
let me coax from you a farthing."  Uncle Jack slams the door and rushes out.  Pisistratus draws
the bills warily from his pocket, half suspecting they must already have turned into withered
leaves, like fairy money; slowly convinces himself that the bills are good bills; and by lively
gestures testifies his delight and astonishment.  Scene changes.

