"But, mother, tell me more about this wonderful change. Where are the new rooms and what is
their purpose? I can't really believe that I have some bodily organs that I never heard of.
What are they and where are they; when will they be finished off? I am all curiosity. Didn't
we study about them in our school physiology?"

"You have given me a good many questions to answer, little girl, and I hardly know where to
begin answering them.

"In your school physiology you studied all about the organs that keep you alive. What did you
learn about your bodily house? How many stories is it?"

"Three stories high, and then there is a cupola on the top of all. I like to think of the head
as a cupola or observatory, resting on the tower of the neck and turning from side to side
as we want to look around us."

"And what is the furniture in the different stories?" 

In 1837 secularization was made by Ramon Estrada. The 1839-1840 reports show that two thirds
of the cattle and sheep had disappeared. Destruction of the mission was very quick. The neophyte
population in 1832 was 1,125, in 1834 around 800 and by the end of the decade around 290,
with 150 more scattered in the district.

The total baptism from 1777 to 1874 is 8640, deaths 6950th 
The
old record of marriage records from 3222 weddings January 12, 1778,
to August 15, 1863.

In 1833 Padre Viader closed his missionary work of nearly forty years
in California to leave the country, and Padre Francisco Garcia Diego,
the prefect of Zacatecan monks, became his successor.

Diego then became the first bishop of California.
In July 1839 a party called Yozcolos, doubtless after their leader, attacked neophytes guarding
Santa Clara wheat fields, killing one of them. The attackers were persecuted and their leader
killed, and the placing of his head on a pole seemed to act as a deterrent further actions for
a while.
In December the same year Prado Mesa submits an expedition against
gentile robbers in the region of the Stanislaus River.

He was surprised by the enemy, three men were killed, and he and six others wounded, besides
losing a number of his arms.

The Indian success is due to great alarm, and a regular patrol was organized to operate between
San Jose and San Juan Mission for the protection of ranches. This uprising of the Indians was
almost inevitable.

Deprived of their maintenance at the missions, they were almost thrown
on their own resources, and in many cases left them a prey to the
evil leadership of desperate men of their own class.

Santa Clara was one of those missions directly affected by the decree of Micheltorena, of 29 Mar.
1843, requires that the Padres resume management of temporalities. They bring its work to gather
up what fragments they could find, but flocks and herds were "loaned" where they could not
be recovered, and a flock of 4000 sheep - the padre says 6000 - were taken by MJ Vallejo, "legally
in aid from the government. "

Pio Pico's decree of 5 June 1845 hit Santa Clara. Andrés Pico made an assessment of the property
at $ 16,173.

There were then 130 ex-neophytes, live-stock had sunk to 430 cattle, 215 horses and 809 sheep.
The padre found it necessary to write a sharp letter to the alcalde of San Jose in grog-shops
Pueblo, who encouraged drinking among his Indians to the extent that
they were completely demoralized.

March 19, 1851, the parish priest, who was a cultivated and learned Jesuit, who had prepared the
way succeeded in that Santa Clara, which was established in the old Mission buildings. On the
28th April 1855, it was chartered with all rights and privileges of a university. In due time, the
College grew to large proportions, and it was found important to
either remove the old Mission structure wholly or renovate it out
beyond recognition.

The latter was done so, but little of the old church back.
I restore it in 1861-1862 the ship was allowed to stay, but in 1885 it was found necessary to
remove it.

Its walls were five feet thick.

The adobe bricks were thrown out on the square behind the cross.
The current occupation of Santa Clara as a university and a church made necessary an adaptation
of the old convents to meet modern conditions. Therefore, casual visitors will hardly notice that the
reception in the room, which he has ushered in is a part of the old
monasteries.

The walls are about three meters thick and are of adobe.

In the garden rays from the monastery roofs are to be seen.
The Old Mission winery where the grapes to thrive, has now transformed into a garden. A number of
old olive trees still. Of the three original bells of the mission, two still call the faithful
to worship. One of them was broken and would culminate in San Francisco.
On the altar there are angels with flambeaux in their hands, wood
carving.

These are considered work of Indians.

There are also several old statues of saints, including San Joaquin, Santa Ana, San Juan Capistrano,
and Santa Colette. In sodality chapel, which also has statues of
San Francisco and San Antonio.

Altar rail of the restored Santa Clara Church were made from bars
in the old Mission.

"Yes, it might be possible; but no girl of fourteen should be a mother, for she is not fully
developed and her children will not be strong as if she had not married until after she were
twenty."

"But tell me, mother, all about it. I don't see now how the baby grows?"

"Well, I was showing you the ovary in which are many ova. The universe consists of more than what
we can see. Everything solid  is only a fraction of everything that needs to be considered. One
must add mental activity generated by sentient beings, and more if one is to study the whole of
physics. 

I cannot exactly set any price, but it seems like the price of a sequin
apiece should fit.

He certainly never did anything like that: when a customer purchases the quantity requested of
me, I find that is enough, one with another. At least, if I were to purchase as many as two
hundred, I would not even think about going any further than that.

What you have told me about the Spaniards makes me in no way comfortable.

Anymore, I only have hope in winter and what it may bring. I do not
see ours turning out well.

The disappointments with Hanover hang in the air and become greater
every day.

The army is currently on its way to Flanders, where it will take winter quarters, but the King
and Duke are no longer with it. Even though He will not arrive in time for his birthday, it
will be celebrated when he comes. The Parliament is set to meet on November 22nd, and the atmosphere
is chaotic. The Court is divided, nothing is certain for the House of Commons, and as the King
is making enemies, so is Lord Carteret not making allies.

Mr. Pelham is attempting to court Pitt, but that is not working as he planned. Pultney remains
unresolved.

What will the end result look like? Only the Jacobies will find happiness. I know nothing more
than this, and as such, turn to Mr. Chute.

I am indebted to you, my dear Colleague, for your poem! Patapan's vanity will not permit him to
read anything else. Upon offering Patapan a Marital for comparison, that coxcomb, throwing it
into the fire, stated that, "He never came across a lapdog that could
reading Latin; let the rural house-dos and pointers with plenty of
spare time on their hands learn that language." He then finished this
by asking me, "who has ever seen a Latin book on my couch?" 

Due to it the mind develops a habit of being inactive--a habit which, unless some reasonably common
mutiny takes place, is vulnerable to the whims of its current professor, and that general mindset
which by the passage of time will overthrow its professor's authority.
 I have often wondered why the important organs of the abdominal cavity should
not have been better protected."

