I do not intend to weary you with details of my childhood, as I think that children are generally
very uninteresting subjects of conversation to any except their parents, who naturally discover
what is beautiful and attractive in them, and appreciate what is said in correspondence with
their own feelings. I shall, therefore, only tell you a few facts of this period of my life,
which I think absolutely necessary to illustrate my character and nature.

I was born in Berlin, Prussia, on the 6th of September, 1829; and am the eldest of a family
of five sisters and one brother. My early childhood passed happily, though heavy clouds of
sorrow and care at times overshadowed our family circle. I was of a cheerful disposition; and
was always in good humor, even when sick. I was quiet and gentle in all my amusements: my chief
delight consisting in telling stories to my sister, one year younger than myself, who was always
glad to listen to these products of my imagination, which were wholly original; for no stories
were told me, nor had I any children's books. My heroes and heroines were generally distinguished
for some mental peculiarity,--being kind or cruel, active or indolent,--which led them into
all sorts of adventures till it suited my caprice to terminate their career. In all our little
affairs, I took the lead, planning and directing every thing; while my playmates seemed to
take it for granted, that it was their duty to carry out my commands.

My memory is remarkable in respect to events that occurred at this time, while it always fails
to recall dates and names. When twenty years of age, I asked my father what sort of a festival
he took me to once, in company with a friend of his with only one arm, when we walked through
meadows where daisies were blossoming in millions, and where we rode in carriages that went
round continually until they were wound up. My father answered, with much surprise, that it
was a public festival of the cabinet-makers, which was celebrated in a neighboring village;
and that I was, at that time, only nineteen months old.

He was so much interested in my story, that I related another of my memories. One dark morning,
my mother wakened me, and hastened my dressing. After this was accomplished, she handed me
a cup of something which I had never tasted before, and which was as disagreeable as assafoetida
in later years. This was some coffee, which I had to take instead of my usual milk. Then I
went with my father to the large park called Thiergarten, where we saw the sun rise. I began
to spring about; looking at the big oaks which seemed to reach into the heavens, or stooping
down to pluck a flower. Birds of all kinds were singing in chorus, while the flower-beds surrounding
the statue of Flora scented the pure morning air with the sweetest of perfumes. The sun ascended,
meanwhile, from the edge of a little pond covered with water-lilies. I was intoxicated with
joy. The feeling of that morning is as fresh to-day as when I related this to my father. I
know I walked till I got fairly tired, and we reached a solitary house beyond the park. Probably
fatigue took entire possession of me; for I remember nothing more till we were on our way home,
and the sun was setting. Then I begged for some large yellow plums which I saw in the stores.
My father bought some, but gave me only a few; while I had a desire for all, and stole them
secretly from his pockets; so that, when we reached home, I had eaten them all. I was sick
after I went to bed, and remember taking some horrible stuff the next morning (probably rhubarb);
thus ending the day, which had opened so poetically, in rather a prosaic manner.