At twelve the gates of the castle were thrown open, and the company quitted it for the woods,
which were splendidly illuminated. Arcades of light lined the long vistas, which were terminated
by pyramids of lamps that presented to the eye one bright column of flame. At irregular distances
buildings were erected, hung with variegated lamps, disposed in the gayest and most fantastic
forms. Collations were spread under the trees; and music, touched by unseen hands, breathed
around. The musicians were placed in the most obscure and embowered spots, so as to elude the
eye and strike the imagination. The scene appeared enchanting. Nothing met the eye but beauty
and romantic splendour; the ear received no sounds but those of mirth and melody. The younger
part of the company formed themselves into groups, which at intervals glanced through the woods,
and were again unseen. Julia seemed the magic queen of the place. Her heart dilated with pleasure,
and diffused over her features an expression of pure and complacent delight. A generous, frank,
and exalted sentiment sparkled in her eyes, and animated her manner. Her bosom glowed with
benevolent affections; and she seemed anxious to impart to all around her, a happiness as unmixed
as that she experienced. Wherever she moved, admiration followed her steps. Ferdinand was as
gay as the scene around him. Emilia was pleased; and the marquis seemed to have left his melancholy
in the castle. The marchioness alone was wretched. She supped with a select party, in a pavilion
on the sea-shore, which was fitted up with peculiar elegance. It was hung with white silk,
drawn up in festoons, and richly fringed with gold. The sofas were of the same materials, and
alternate wreaths of lamps and of roses entwined the columns. A row of small lamps placed about
the cornice, formed an edge of light round the roof which, with the other numerous lights,
was reflected in a blaze of splendour from the large mirrors that adorned the room. The Count
Muriani was of the party;--he complimented the marchioness on the beauty of her daughters;
and after lamenting with gaiety the captives which their charms would enthral, he mentioned
the Count de Vereza. 'He is certainly of all others the man most deserving the lady Julia.
As they danced, I thought they exhibited a perfect model of the beauty of either sex; and if
I mistake not, they are inspired with a mutual admiration.' The marchioness, endeavouring to
conceal her uneasiness, said, 'Yes, my lord, I allow the count all the merit you adjudge him,
but from the little I have seen of his disposition, he is too volatile for a serious attachment.'
At that instant the count entered the pavilion: 'Ah,' said Muriani, laughingly, 'you was the
subject of our conversation, and seem to be come in good time to receive the honors allotted
you. I was interceding with the marchioness for her interest in your favor, with the lady Julia;
but she absolutely refuses it; and though she allows you merit, alleges, that you are by nature
fickle and inconstant. What say you--would not the beauty of lady Julia bind your unsteady heart?'.

'I know not how I have deserved that character of the marchioness,' said the count with a smile,
'but that heart must be either fickle or insensible in an uncommon degree, which can boast
of freedom in the presence of lady Julia.' The marchioness, mortified by the whole conversation,
now felt the full force of Vereza's reply, which she imagined he pointed with particular emphasis.

