In this delightful city Marco Polo lived until he was seventeen years of age. About this time,
his father, who owned a large commercial house in Constantinople, told Marco that he might
go with him on a long journey to Eastern countries. The boy was very glad to go, and set out
with his father and his uncle, who were anxious to trade and gain more wealth in the East.
This was in the year 1271.

The three Polos traveled across Persia into China, and across the Desert of Gobi to the northwest,
where they found the great ruler, Kublai Khan. This monarch was a kind-hearted and able man.
He wanted to help his subjects to become civilized and learned, as the Europeans were. So Kublai
Khan assisted the two elder Polos in their business of trading, and took Marco into his service.

Soon Marco learned the languages of Asia, and then he was sent by the khan on errands of state
to different parts of the country. He visited all the great cities in China, and traveled into
the interior of Asia to places almost unknown at the present time.

At length the three Polos expressed a desire to return to Venice. The great khan did not wish
to part with them, but he at last consented; for he found that by going they could do him a
service. The service required was their escort for a beautiful young princess who was to be
taken from Peking to Tabriz, where she was to marry the Khan of Persia.

It was difficult to find any one trustworthy enough to take charge of so important a person
on so long and dangerous a journey. But Kublai Khan had faith in the Polos. They had traveled
more than any one else he knew, and were cautious and brave.

So he gave them permission to return to their home, and requested them to take the princess
to Tabriz on the way. It was decided that the journey should be made by sea, as the land route
was so beset by robbers as to be unsafe. Besides, the Polos were fine sailors.

They started from the eastern coast of China, and continued their voyage for three years, around
the peninsula of Cochin China, and through the Indian Ocean to the Persian Gulf. Here they
went ashore, and then proceeded by land across Persia to Tabriz. They left the princess in
that city, and resumed their journey by way of the Bosporus to Venice.

When they reached Venice they found that they had been forgotten by their friends. They had
been away twenty-four years, and in that time everything had changed very much. They themselves
had grown older, and their clothes differed from those worn by the Venetians; for fashions
changed even in the thirteenth century, although not so often as they change at the present
time. It is no wonder that the Polos were not known until they recalled themselves to the memory
of their friends.

One evening they invited a few of their old friends to dinner, and during the evening they
brought out three old coats. These coats they proceeded to rip apart, and out from the linings
dropped all kinds of precious stones--diamonds, sapphires, emeralds, and rubies. In this way
these wary travelers had hidden their wealth and treasure while on their perilous journey.
The visitors were astonished at the sight of so great riches, and listened eagerly to the accounts
of the countries from which they came.

Soon after the return of Marco Polo to Venice, he took part with his countrymen in a battle
against the Genoese. The city of Genoa, like the city of Venice, had a large trade with the
East. These two cities were rivals in trade, and were very jealous of each other. Whenever
Venetian ships and those of the Genoese met on the Mediterranean Sea, the sailors found some
way of starting a quarrel. The quarrel quickly led to a sea fight, and it was in one of these
combats that Marco Polo engaged. The Venetians were defeated, and Marco Polo was taken prisoner
and cast into a dungeon. Here he spent his time in writing the wonderful book in which he described
his travels.

The descriptions Polo gave of the East were as wonderful as fairy tales. He told of countries
rich in gold, silver, and precious stones, and of islands where diamonds sparkled on the shore.
The rulers of these countries wore garments of rich silk covered with glittering gems, and
dwelt in palaces, the roofs of which were made of gold.

He described golden Cathay, with its vast cities rich in manufactures, and also Cipango, Hindustan,
and Indo-China. He knew of the Indies Islands, rich in spices, and he described Siberia, and
told of the sledges drawn by dogs, and of the polar bears. The fact that an ocean washed the
eastern coast of Asia was proved by him, and this put at rest forever the theory that there
was an impassable swamp east of Asia.

This book by Marco Polo was eagerly read, and the facts that it stated were so remarkable that
many people refused to believe them. It stirred others with a desire to travel and see those
lands for themselves.

Traveling by land, however, was very dangerous, because of the bands of robbers by which the
country was occupied. These outlaws robbed every one whom they suspected of having any money,
and often murdered travelers in order to gain their possessions. Sea travel, too, was just
as dangerous, but in a different way.

You will remember why sailors dared not venture far out upon the ocean and search for a water
route to the Eastern countries and islands. The time was soon coming, however, when they would
dare to do so, and two wonderful inventions helped navigators very much.

One came from the finding of the loadstone, or natural magnet. This is a stone which has the
power of attracting iron. A steel needle rubbed on it becomes magnetized, as we say, and, when
suspended by the center and allowed to move freely, always swings around until it points north
and south. Hung on a pivot and inclosed in a box, this instrument is called the mariners' compass.
It was of great importance to sailors, because it always told them which way was north. On
cloudy days, and during dark, stormy nights, when the sun and stars could not be seen, the
sailors could now keep on their way, far from land, and still know in which direction they
were going.

The other invention was that of the astrolabe. This was an instrument by means of which sailors
measured the height of the sun above the horizon at noon, and could thus tell the distance
of the ship from the equator. It is in use on all the ships at the present time, but it has
been greatly improved, and is now called the quadrant.

The compass and the astrolabe, together with improved maps and charts, made it possible for
navigators to tell where their ship was when out of sight of land or in the midst of storm
and darkness. This made them more courageous, and they ventured a little farther from the coast,
but still no one dared to sail far out upon the Sea of Darkness.

COLUMBUS.

One day a man appeared in Portugal, who said he was certain that the earth was round, and that
he could reach India by sailing westward. Every one laughed at him and asked him how he would
like to try. He answered that he would sail round the earth, if any one would provide him with
ships.

People jeered and scoffed.

"If the earth is a sphere," they said, "in order to sail round it you must sail uphill! Who
ever heard of a ship sailing uphill?"

But this man, whose name was Christopher Columbus, remained firm in his belief.

When a boy, Columbus had listened eagerly to the stories the sailors told about strange lands
and wonderful islands beyond the water. He was in the habit of sitting on the wharves and watching
the ships. Often he would say, "I wish, oh, how I wish I could be a sailor!"

At last his father, who was a wool comber, said to him, "My son, if you really wish to become
a sailor, I will send you to a school where you will be taught navigation."

Columbus was delighted at this, and told his father that he would study diligently. He was
sent to the University of Pavia, where he learned all the geography that was then known, as
well as how to draw maps and charts. He became a skillful penman, and also studied astronomy,
geometry, and Latin.

But he did not spend a long time at his studies, for at the age of fourteen he went to sea.
What he had learned, however, gave him an excellent groundwork, and from this time forward
he made use of every opportunity to inform himself and to become a scholarly man.

His first voyage was made with a distant relative, who was an adventurous and daring man, and
who was ever ready to fight with any one with whom he could pick a quarrel. In course of time
Columbus commanded a ship of his own, and became known as a bold and daring navigator. He made
a voyage along the coast of Africa as far south as Guinea, and afterwards sailed northward
to Iceland.

At an early day he became familiar with the wildest kind of adventure, for at this time sea
life on the Mediterranean was little more than a series of fights with pirates. Some say that
during one of these conflicts Columbus's ship caught fire. In order to save his life, he jumped
into the water and swam six miles to shore, reaching the coast of Portugal. Others say that
he was attracted to that country by the great school of navigation which Prince Henry had established.
However that may be, he appeared at Lisbon at the age of thirty-five, filled with the idea
of sailing westward to reach those rich Eastern countries in which every one was so much interested.

He was laughed at for expressing such an idea. It is not pleasant to be laughed at, but Columbus
was courageous and never wavered in his belief.

"The earth is a sphere," he said; "those foolish stories of its being flat and supported on
a turtle's back cannot be true."

But those persons to whom he talked only laughed the more.

"Is there anything more foolish," they asked, "than to believe that there are people who walk
with their heels up and with their heads hanging down?" "Think of a place where the trees grow
with their branches down, and where it snows, hails, and rains upward!"

Everybody thought him an idle dreamer.

Columbus tried to persuade King John to furnish him with ships and allow him to test his belief.
But King John cruelly deceived Columbus; for, after obtaining his maps and charts, he sent
off an expedition of his own. He hoped in this way to gain the glory of the discovery. The
sailors whom he sent, however, were not brave enough to continue the voyage, and returned,
frightened by a severe storm.

Columbus was so disgusted by the treachery of King John that he made up his mind to leave Portugal
and go to Spain. So, taking his little son, Diego, with him, he started on his journey. He
traveled from place to place, trying to find some person who would help him make his ideas
known to King Ferdinand and Queen Isabella. He thought that if he could talk with them he could
persuade them to furnish him with ships.

One day he came to a convent called La Rabida. Here Diego, who was weary and thirsty, begged
his father to stop and ask for a drink of water. Columbus knocked at the big iron gate, and
while he was conversing with the attendant a priest approached.

This priest was attracted by the noble bearing and refined speech of Columbus, and saw at once
that he was not a beggar. He asked him what he wished, and Columbus related his story.

The good priest believed in him and said he would try to influence the king and queen to furnish
him with ships. The priest brought the matter before the king; but at this time Spain was at
war with the Moors, and King Ferdinand had no time to attend to anything else. Columbus was
patient and waited. But as year after year passed and brought no prospect of obtaining the
ships he wished, his hopes fell. After seven long, weary years of waiting, he was about to
leave Spain in despair.

Just as he was leaving, however, a message was brought to him from the queen, asking him to
explain his plans to her once more. Columbus did so, and the queen was so fully convinced that
she exclaimed: "I will provide ships and men for you, if I have to pledge my jewels in order
to do so!"

Three ships were fitted out for the voyage. These ships were very different from those we see
to-day. They were light, frail barks called caravels, and two of them, the Pinta and Nina,
had no decks. The third, the Santa Maria, had a deck. It was upon this largest caravel that
Columbus placed his flag.

On the 3d of August, 1492, the little fleet set sail from Palos, entering upon the most daring
expedition ever undertaken by man. The people of the town gathered on the wharf to see the
departure of the vessels. Many of them had friends or relatives on board whom they expected
never to look upon again. Sad indeed was the sight as the little caravels sailed out of the
harbor and faded from view.

After sailing a few days, the Pinta broke her rudder. This accident the sailors took to be
a sign of misfortune. They tried to persuade Columbus to put back to Palos, but he would not
listen to such a suggestion. Instead of sailing back, he pushed on to the Canary Islands. Here
his ships were delayed three weeks, after which they continued the voyage into unknown waters.

After they had sailed westward for many days, the sailors began to show signs of alarm, and
they implored Columbus to return. He tried to calm their fears. He described the rich lands
he hoped to find, and reminded them of the wealth and fame this voyage would bring to them.
So they agreed to venture a little farther.

At last the compass began to point in a different direction, and the sailors became almost
panic-stricken. They thought they were sailing straight to destruction, and when they found
that Columbus would not listen to their entreaties they planned a mutiny. Though Columbus knew
what the sailors were plotting, he kept steadily on his course. Fortunately, signs of land
soon began to appear. A branch with berries on it floated past, a rudely carved paddle was
picked up, and land birds were seen flying over the ships.

A prize had been offered to the sailor who first saw land, and all eagerly watched for it night
and day. At last, early one morning, a gun was fired from the Pinta, and all knew that land
had been sighted. The sailors were filled with the wildest joy, and crowded around Columbus
with expressions of gratitude and admiration, in great contrast to the distrustful manner in
which they had treated him a few days before.

The land they were approaching was very beautiful. It was a green, sunny island with pleasant
groves in which birds were singing. Beautiful flowers were blooming all around and the trees
were laden with fruit. The island was inhabited, too, for groups of strange-looking men were
seen running to the shore.

At length the ships cast anchor, the boats were lowered, and Columbus, clad in rich scarlet
and carrying in his hand the royal banner of Spain, was taken ashore. As soon as he stepped
on the beach, Columbus knelt down and gave thanks to God. He then planted the banner of Spain
in the ground and took possession of the country in the name of Ferdinand and Isabella.

This island he called San Salvador, because he and his crew had been saved from a watery grave,
and also because October 12 was so named in the Spanish calendar.

Columbus supposed San Salvador to be one of the islands near the coast of Asia, but it is one
of the Bahamas.

Thus was America discovered on the 12th of October, 1492.

The natives of this island were different from any people the Spaniards had ever seen. They
were of a reddish-brown color, and had high cheek bones, small black eyes, and straight black
hair. They were entirely naked, and their bodies were greased and painted. Their hair was decorated
with feathers, and many of them were adorned with curious ornaments.

They were at first very much afraid of the white men and kept far away. But gradually they
lost their fear and brought the Spaniards presents of bananas and oranges. Some of them gathered
courage enough to touch the Spaniards and pass their hands over them, as if to make certain
that they were real beings. These men, whose skin was so white, they thought to be gods who
had come down from the sky.

When Columbus asked them where they found the gold of which many of their ornaments were made,
they pointed toward the south. Then Columbus took some of them with him to search for the land
of gold.

The next land he reached was the island of Cuba. Thinking that this was a part of India, he
called the natives Indians. He then sailed to Haiti, which he called Hispaniola, or "Little
Spain." For more than three months Columbus cruised among these islands, where the air was
always balmy, the sky clear, and the land beautiful. The sailors believed these new lands were
Paradise, and wanted to live there always.

At length, however, they thought of returning to their home and friends. So, taking several
Indians with them, and many curious baskets and ornaments, they set out on their return voyage.

This voyage proved to be very stormy, and at one time it seemed certain that the ships would
go down; but after a time the sea grew quiet, and on the 15th of March they sailed again into
the little harbor of Palos.

You can imagine the excitement.

"What! has Columbus returned?" asked the people. "Has he really found the East by sailing westward?"

"Yes, he has," was the answer. "He has found India."

Columbus was given a royal welcome. The king and queen held a great celebration in his honor
at Barcelona; and when the Indians marched into court the astonishment of every person was
great. The Indians were half naked; their dark bodies were painted, and their heads were adorned
with feathers. They carried baskets of seed pearls, and wore strange ornaments of gold. Some
carried the skins of wild animals, and others carried beautiful birds of brilliant plumage.
Every inhabitant of Barcelona rejoiced, and the bells were rung in honor of the great discoverer.

It was a happy time for Columbus. He felt repaid for all his suffering and trouble.

King Ferdinand and Queen Isabella now wished Columbus to go again to these newly discovered
islands and search for the gold that was thought to be there. You may be sure Columbus was
willing to go. So they fitted out seventeen vessels, manned by fifteen hundred men, and placed
Columbus in command of this fleet. It was no trouble to find men who were willing to go on
this voyage. All wanted to see the new world that had been found.

During this second voyage, which was made in 1493, Columbus discovered Jamaica, Puerto Rico,
and some small islands in the Caribbean Sea.

On the island of Jamaica the Spaniards came upon the footprints of some strange animal which
they thought to be a dragon. This dragon they believed was guarding the gold which they supposed
was on the island. So they ran back to their ships in fear. Later on they became used to seeing
these footprints, and found that they were those of alligators. At Puerto Rico they suffered
from a savage attack made by the natives, who shot poisoned arrows and threw javelins at them.
But in most other places the natives were very friendly.

Columbus thought this land was a part of the east coast of Asia, and he could not understand
why he did not find cities such as Marco Polo had described.

