Morale

A Story of the War of 1941-43

By Murray Leinster

PART I

    "... The profound influence of civilian morale upon the
    course of modern war is nowhere more clearly shown than
    in the case of that monstrous war-engine popularly
    known as a 'Wabbly.' It landed in New Jersey Aug. 16,
    1942, and threw the whole Eastern Coast into a frenzy.
    In six hours the population of three States was in a
    panic. Industry was paralyzed. The military effect was
    comparable only to a huge modern army landed in our
    rear...." (Strategic Lessons of the War of
    1941-43.--U. S. War College. Pp. 79-80.)

Sergeant Walpole made his daily report at 2:15. He used a dinky telephone that should have
been in a museum, and a rural Central put him on the Area Officer's tight beam. The Area Officer
listened drearily as the Sergeant said in a military manner:

"Sergeant Walpole, sir, Post Fourteen, reports that he has nothing of importance to report."

    +--------------------------------------------------+
    |The Wabbly, uncombatable engine of war, spreads   |
    |unparalleled death and destruction--until Sergeant|
    |Walpole "strikes at the morale" of its crew.      |
    +--------------------------------------------------+

The Area Officer's acknowledgment was curt; embittered. For he was an energetic young man,
and he loathed his job. He wanted to be in the west, where fighting of a highly unconventional
nature was taking place daily. He did not enjoy this business of watching an unthreatened coast-line
simply for the maintenance of civilian confidence and morale. He preferred fighting.

Sergeant Walpole, though, exhaled a lungful of smoke at the telephone transmitter and waited.
Presently the rural Central said:

"All through?"

"Sure, sweetie," said Sergeant Walpole. "How about the talkies tonight?"

That was at 2:20 P. M. There was coy conversation, while the civilian telephone-service suffered.
Then Sergeant Walpole went back to his post of duty with a date for the evening. He never kept
that date, as it turned out. The rural Central was dead an hour after the first and only Wabbly
landed, and as everybody knows, that happened at 2:45.

       *       *       *       *       *

But Sergeant Walpole had no premonitions as he went back to his hammock on the porch. This
was Post Number Fourteen, Sixth Area, Eastern Coast Observation Force. There was a war on,
to be sure. There had been a war on since the fall of 1941, but it was two thousand miles away.
Even lone-wolf bombing planes, flying forty thousand feet up, never came this far to drop their
eggs upon inviting targets or upon those utterly blank, innocent-seeming places where munitions
of war were now manufactured underground.

Here was peace and quiet and good rations and a paradise for gold-brickers. Here was a summer
bungalow taken over for military purposes, quartering six men who watched a certain section
of coast-line for a quite impossible enemy. Three miles to the south there was another post.
Three miles to the north another one still. They stretched all along the Atlantic Coast, those
observation-posts, and the men in them watched the sea, languidly observed the television broadcasts,
and slept in the sun. That was all they were supposed to do. In doing it they helped to maintain
civilian morale. And therefore the Eastern Coast Observation Force was enviously said to be
"just attached to the Army for rations," by the other services, and its members rated with
M. P.'s and other low forms of animal life.

Sergeant Walpole reclined in his hammock, inhaling comfortably. The ocean glittered blue before
him in the sun. There was a plume of smoke out at sea indicating an old-style coal-burner,
its hull down below the horizon. Anything that would float was being used since the war began,
though a coal-burning ship was almost a museum piece. A trim Diesel tramp was lazing northward
well inshore. A pack of gulls were squabbling noisily over some unpleasantness floating a hundred
yards from the beach. The Diesel tramp edged closer inshore still. It was all very peaceful
and placid. There are few softer jobs on earth than being a member of a "force in being" for
the sake of civilian morale.

       *       *       *       *       *

But at 2:32 P. M. the softness of that job departed, as far as Sergeant Walpole was concerned.
At that moment he heard a thin wailing sound high aloft. It was well enough known nearer the
front, but the Eastern Coast Observation Force had had no need to become unduly familiar with
it. With incredible swiftness the wailing rose to the shrillest of shrieks, descending as lightning
might be imagined to descend. Then there was a shattering concussion. It was monstrous. It
was ear-splitting. Windows crashed in the cottage and tinkled to the sandy earth outside. There
was a pause of seconds' duration only, during which Sergeant Walpole stared blankly and gasped,
"What the hell?" Then there was a second thin wailing which rose to a scream....

Sergeant Walpole was in motion before the second explosion came. He was diving off the veranda
of Post Number Fourteen. He saw someone else coming through a window. He had a photographic
glimpse of one of his men emerging through a doorway. Then he struck earth and began to run.
Like everybody else in America, he knew what the explosions and the screamings meant.

But he had covered no more than fifty yards when the third bomb fell from that plane so far
aloft that it was not even a mote in the sky. Up there the sky was not even blue, but a dull
leaden gray because of the thinness of the atmosphere yet above it. The men in that high-flight
bomber could see the ground only as a mass of vaguely blending colors. They were aiming their
bombs by filtered light, through telescopes which used infra-red rays only, as aerial cameras
did back in the 1920's. And they were sighting their eggs with beautifully exact knowledge
of their velocity and height. By the time the bombs had dropped eight miles they were traveling
faster than the sound of their coming. The first two had wiped out Posts Thirteen and Fifteen.
The third made no sound before it landed, except to an observer at a distance. Sergeant Walpole
heard neither the scream of fall nor the sound of its explosion.

       *       *       *       *       *

He was running madly, and suddenly the earth bucked violently beneath his feet, and he had
a momentary sensation of things flying madly by over his head, and then he knew nothing at
all for a very long time. Then his head ached horribly and someone was popping at something
valorously with a rifle, and he heard the nasty sharp explosions of the hexynitrate bullets
which have remodeled older ideas of warfare, and Sergeant Walpole was aware of an urgent necessity
to do something, but he could not at all imagine what it was. Then a shell went off, the earth-concussion
banged his nose against the sand, and the rifle-fire stopped.

"For Gawd's sake!" said Sergeant Walpole dizzily.

He staggered to his feet and looked behind him. Where the cottage had been there was a hole.
Quite a large hole. It was probably a hundred yards across and all of twenty deep, but sea-water
was seeping in to fill it through the sand. Its edge was forty or fifty feet from where he
stood. He had been knocked down by the heaving earth, and the sand and mud blown out of the
crater had gone clean over him. Twenty feet back, the top part of his body would have been
cut neatly off by the blast. As it was....

       *       *       *       *       *

He found his nose bleeding and plugged it with his handkerchief. He was still rather dazed,
and he still had the feeling that there was something extremely important that he must do.
He stood rocking on his feet, trying to clear his head, when two men came along the sand-dunes
behind the beach. One of them carried two automatic rifles. The other was trying to bandage
a limp and flapping arm as he ran. They saw the Sergeant and ran to him.

"Hell, Sarge, I thought y'were blown to little egg-shells."

"I ain't," said Sergeant Walpole. He looked again at the hole in the ground and swore painedly.

"Look at that," said the man with the flapping arm. "Hell's goin' to pop around here, Sarge."

The sergeant swung around. Then his mouth dropped open. Just half a mile away and hardly more
than two hundred yards from the shore-line, the Diesel tramp was ramming the beach. A wake
still foamed behind it. A monstrous bow-wave spread out on either hand, over-topping even the
combers that came rolling in. It was being deliberately run ashore. It struck, and its fore-mast
crumpled up and fell forward, carrying its derrick-booms with it. There was the squeal of crumpled
metal plates.

"Flyin' a yeller flag just now," panted one of the two privates. "We started poppin' hexynitrate
bullets at her an' she flung a shell at us. She's a enemy ship. But what the hell?"

Smoke spurted up from the beached ship. Her stern broke off and settled in the deeper water
out from the shore. More smoke spurted out. Her bow split wide. There were the deep rumbles
of black-powder explosions. Sergeant Walpole and his two followers stared blankly. More explosions,
and the ship was hidden in smoke, and when it blew away her funnel was down and half or more
of her upper works was sliding into the sea, and she had listed suddenly.

       *       *       *       *       *

Sergeant Walpole gazed upward. Futilely, of course; there was nothing in sight overhead. But
these explosions did look like the hexynitrate stuff they put in small-arm bullets nowadays.
A thirty-caliber bullet had the explosive effect of an old-style six-pound T.N.T. shell. Only,
hexynitrate goes off with a crack instead of a boom. It wasn't an American plane opening up
with a machine-gun.

Then the beached ship seemed to blow up. A mass of thick smoke covered her from stem to stern,
and bits of plating flew heavily through the air, and there were a few lurid bursts of flame.
Sergeant Walpole suddenly remembered that there ought to be survivors, only he hadn't seen
anybody diving overboard to try to get ashore. He half-started forward....

Then the sea-breeze blew this smoke, too, away from the wreckage. And the tramp was gone, but
there was something else left in its place--so that Sergeant Walpole took one look, and swallowed
a non-existent something that came up instantly into his throat again, and remembered the urgent
thing he had to do.

"Pete," he said calmly, "you hunt up the Area Officer an' tell him what you seen. Here! I'll
give you a report that'll keep 'em from slammin' you in clink for bein' drunk. Grab a monocycle
somewheres. It's faster than a car, the way you'll be travelin'. First telephone you come to
that's workin', make Central put you in the tight beam to head-quarters. Then go on an' report,
y'self. See?"

Pete started, and automatically fumbled with his limp and useless arm. Then he carefully tucked
the unmanageable hand in the pocket of his uniform blouse.

"That don't matter now," he said absurdly.

He was looking at the thing left in place of the tramp, as Sergeant Walpole scribbled on one
of the regulation report-forms of the Eastern Coast Observation Force. And the thing he saw
was enough to upset anybody.

       *       *       *       *       *

Where the tramp had been there was a single bit of bow-plating sticking up out of the surf,
and a bunch of miscellaneous floating wreckage drifting sluggishly toward the beach. And there
was a solid, rounded, metallic shape apparently quite as long as the original tramp had been.
There was a huge armored tube across its upper part, with vision-slits in two bulbous sections
at its end. There were gun-ports visible here and there, and already a monstrous protuberance
was coming into view midway along its back, as if forced into position from within. Where the
bow of the tramp had been there were colossal treads now visible. There was a sort of conning-tower,
armored and grim. There was a ghastly steel beak. The thing was a war-machine of monstrous
size. It emitted a sudden roaring sound, as of internal-combustion engines operating at full
power, and lurched heavily. The steel plates of the tramp still visible above water, crumpled
up like paper and were trodden under. The thing came toward the shore. It slithered through
the shallow sea, with waves breaking against its bulging sides. It came out upon the beach,
its wet sides glittering. It was two hundred feet long, and it looked somehow like a gigantic
centipede.

It was a tank, of sorts, but like no tank ever seen on earth before. It was the great-grandfather
of all tanks. It was so monstrous that for its conveyance a ship's hull and superstructure
had been built about it, and its own engines had been the engines of that ship. It was so huge
that it could only be landed by blasting away a beached ship from about itself, so it could
run under its own power over the fragments to the shore.

Now it stopped smoothly on the sandy beach, in which its eight-foot-wide steel treads sank
almost a yard. Men dropped down from ports in its swelling sides. They made swift, careful
inspections of predetermined points. They darted back up the ladders again. The thing roared
once more. Then it swung about, headed for the sand-dunes, and with an extraordinary smoothness
and celerity disappeared inland.

PART II

    "... The Wabbly was meant for one purpose, the
    undermining of civilian morale. To accomplish that
    purpose it set systematically about the establishment
    of a reign of terror; and so complete was its success
    that half the population of a state was in headlong
    flight within two hours. It was, first, mysterious;
    secondly, deadly, and within a very few hours it had
    built up a reputation for invincibility. Judged on the
    basis of its first twelve hours' work alone, it was the
    most successful experiment of the war. Its effect on
    civilian morale was incalculable." Sergeant Walpole scribbled on the official form.
Just as the monstrous thing dipped down out of sight there was a
vicious, crashing report from its hinder part. Something shrieked....

Sergeant Walpole got up, spitting sand. There was blood on the report-form in his hand. He
folded it painstakingly. Of the two men who had been with him, one was struggling out of the
sand as Sergeant Walpole had had to do. The other was scattered over a good many square yards
of sandy beach.

"Um. They seen us," said Sergeant Walpole, "an' they got Pete. You'll have to take this report.
I'm goin' after the damn thing."

"What for?" asked the other man blankly.

"To keep it in sight," said Sergeant Walpole. "That's tactics. If somebody springs somethin'
you ain't able to fight, run away but keep it in sight an' report to the nearest commissioned
officer. Remember that. Now get on. There's monocycles in the village. Get there an' beat that
damn Wabbly thing with the news."

He saw his follower start off, sprinting. That particular soldier, by the way, was identified
by his dog-tag some days later. As nearly as could be discovered, he had died of gas. But Sergeant
Walpole picked up one of the two rifles, blew sand out of the breech-mechanism, and started
off after the metal monster. He walked in the eight-foot track of one of its treads. As he
went, he continued the cleaning of sand from the rifle in his hands. The rifle was useless
against such a monster, of course, but it is quaint to reflect that in that automatic rifle,
firing hexynitrate bullets, each equivalent to a six-pounder T.N.T. shell in destructiveness,
Sergeant Walpole carried greater "fire-power" than Napoleon ever disposed in battle.

The tread of the Wabbly made a perfect roadway. Presently Sergeant Walpole looked up to find
himself scrutinizing somebody's dining-room table, set for lunch. The Wabbly had crossed a
house in its path without swerving. Walls, chimneys, timbers and planks, all had gone beneath
its treads. But they had been pressed so smoothly flat that until Sergeant Walpole looked down
at his footing, he would not have known he was walking on the wreckage of a building.

It was half an hour before he reached the village. The Wabbly had gone from end to end, backed
up, and gone over the rest of it again. There was the taint of gas in the air. Sergeant Walpole
halted outside the debris. His gas-mask had been blown to atoms with Observation-Post Fourteen.

"They're tryin' to beat the news o' their comin'," he reflected aloud, "which is why they smashed
up the village. The telephone exchange was there.... Tillie's under there somewheres...."

He fumbled with the rifle, suddenly swearing queerly hate-distorted oaths. Tillie had not been
the great love of Sergeant Walpole's life. She was merely a country telephone operator, reasonably
pretty, and flattered by his uniform. But she was under a mass of splintered wood and crushed
brick-work, killed while trying to connect with the tight beam to Area Headquarters to report
the monster rushing upon the village. That monster had destroyed the little settlement. There
was nothing left at all but wreckage and the eight-foot tracks of monster treads. Sometimes
those tracks crossed each other. Between them wreckage survived to a height of as much as four
feet, which was the clearance of the Wabbly's body.

Something roared low overhead. Sergeant Walpole swore bitterly, looked upward, and waited to
die. But the small plane was American, and old. It was a training-plane, useless for front-line
work. It dived to earth, the pilot waved impatiently, and Walpole plunged to a place beside
him. Instantly thereafter the plane took off.

"What was it?" shouted the pilot, sliding off at panic-stricken speed across the tree-tops.
"They heard the bombs go off all the way to Philly. Sent me. What in hell was it?"

       *       *       *       *       *

A thin, high, wailing sound coming down as lightning might be imagined to descend.... The pilot
dived madly and got behind a pine forest before the explosion and the concussion that followed
it. Sergeant Walpole saw the pine-trees shiver. The sheer explosion-wave of that egg, if it
hit an old ship like this in mid-air, would have stripped the fabric from its wings.

"Set me down," said Sergeant Walpole. "They're watchin' us from aloft. I sent a man on a monocycle
to report." But he told luridly of the thing that had come ashore, and of its destructiveness.
"Now set me down. Gimme a gas-mask an' clear out. You ain't got a burglar's chance of gettin'
back."

The pilot set him down, and began ticking away on a code sender even as he landed. Then he
climbed swiftly away from the Sergeant, headed in a weaving, crazy line to westward. Then things
screamed downward and the Sergeant clapped hands over his ears once more. The ground quivered
underfoot, though the eggs landed a good three-quarters of a mile away. The training-plane
dropped like a plummet. The sharpness of a hexynitrate explosion carries its effect to quite
incredible distances. The fabric of its wings split to ribbons. The ship landed somewhere and
smoke rose from it.

"He shouldn't ha' gone up so high," said Sergeant Walpole.

He struck across country for the treads of the Wabbly once more. He saw a school-house. The
Wabbly had passed within a hundred yards of it. The school-house seemed deserted. Then the
Sergeant saw the hole in its roof. Then he caught the infinitely faint taint of gas.

"Mighty anxious," said Sergeant Walpole woodenly, "not to let news get ahead of 'em. Yeah....
If it busts on places without warnin', it'll have that much easier work. I hope I'm in on the
party when we get this damn thing."

There was no use in approaching the school-house, though he had a gas-mask now. Sergeant Walpole
went on.

PART III

    "... The Wabbly made no attempt to do purely military
    damage. The Enemy command realized that the destruction
    of civilian morale was even more important than the
    destruction of munitions factories. In this, the Enemy
    displayed the same acumen that makes the war a fruitful
    subject of study to the strategic student."
It showed no lights. It did not even make very much noise. Then the
second flight of home-defense planes made their attack. Sergeant Walpole
heard them droning overhead. He lit a fire instantly. A little
helicopter dropped from the blackness above him and he began to heap
dirt desperately on the blaze.

"Who's there?" demanded a voice.

"Sergeant Walpole, Post Fourteen, Eastern Coast Observation," said the Sergeant in a military
manner. "Beg to report, sir, that the dinkus that brought down the other ships is housed in
that big bulge on top of the Wabbly."

"Get in," said the voice.

The Sergeant obeyed. With a purring noise the helicopter shot upward. Then something went off
in mid-sky, miles ahead, where a faint humming noise had announced the flight of attack-planes.
A lurid, crackling detonation lit up the sky. One of the ships of the night-flying squadron.
From the helicopter they could see the rest of the flight limned clearly in the flash of the
explosion. Instantly thereafter there was another such flash. Then another.

"Three," said the voice beside Sergeant Walpole. Another flash. "Four...." The invisible operator
of the screw-lifted ship was very calm about it. "Five. Six." The explosions lit the sky. Presently
he said grimly. "That's all of them. I'd better report it."

       *       *       *       *       *

He was silent for a while. Sergeant Walpole saw his hand flicking a key up and down in the
faint light of radio bulbs.

"Now shoot the works," said the helicopter man evenly. "All the ships that attacked this afternoon
went down. One of them started to report, but didn't get but two words through. What did that
damned thing use on them?"

"A dinkus on top, sir," said Sergeant Walpole formally. "I'd found a monocycle, sir, and was
trailing the thing. I'd come to the top of a hill and seen it moving through a pine-wood, crashing
down the trees in front of it like they wasn't there. Then a egg came down from Gawd-knows-where
up aloft. I stopped up my ears, thinkin' it was aimin' for me. Then I seen the ships. Two of
'em were fallin'. They landed, an' I heard a coupla other explosions. Little ones, they sounded
like."

The helicopter man's wrist was flicking up and down.

"Little ones!" he said sardonically. "Those ships were carrying five-hundred-pound bombs! It
was those you heard going off!"

"Maybe," conceded Sergeant Walpole. "There was twenty or thirty ships flyin' in formation,
goin' hell-for-leather for the Wabbly. They were trailin' it from the air. They were comin',
natural, for me, because I was between them an' it. Then my pants caught on fire--"

"What?"

"My pants caught on fire," said Sergeant Walpole, woodenly. "I was sittin' on the monocycle,
tryin' to figure out which way to duck. An' my pants caught on fire. The bike was gettin' hot.
I climbed off it an' it blew up. My rifle was hot, too, an' I chucked it away. Then I saw a
ship go down, on fire. The Wabbly'd stopped still an' it didn't fire a shot. I'll swear to
that. Just my monocycle got hot an' caught on fire, an' then a ship busted out in flames an'
went down. A couple more eggs come down an' three ships dropped. Didn't hit 'em. The concussion
blew the fabric off 'em. Another one caught fire an' crashed. Then another one. I looked, an'
saw the next one catch. Then the next. It was like a searchlight beam hittin' 'em. They flamed
up, blew up, an' that was that. The last two tried to get away, but they lit up an' crashed."

       *       *       *       *       *

The pilot's hand flicked up and down, interminably. There was the steady fierce down-beat of
the slip-stream from the vertical propellers. The helicopter swept forward in a swooping dash.

"The whole east coast's gone crazy," said the 'copter man drily. "Crazy fools trying to run
away. Roads jammed. Work stopped. It leaked out about the planes being wiped out to-day, and
everybody in three states has heard those eggs going off. You're the only living man who's
seen that crawling thing and lived to tell about it. I've sent your stuff back. What's that
about the thing on top?"

"I hid," said Sergeant Walpole, woodenly. They had three rows of oars on each other (Fig. 1 and 2). See Galley.

Trisection
of the angle of the same division into three equal parts, one famous
in antiquity problem of geometry with which Pappus, Proclus, Nicomedes,
of the moderns Vieta, Albrecht have employed Dürer, Newton and others;
with ruler and compass (circle and straight line) alone not solvable.

Trisetum Beauv. (Yellow oat grass), genus of the family of grasses, the genus Avena, Oats, very
close to standing, with two to dreiblütigen spikelets, fertile flowers
and only a little darker at the base of the awn on lemma.

T. pratense Pers. (Avena flavescens L., small meadow oat, see Fig), a perennial grass with
more or less finely hairy Leaves and flower only in the spread-out, yellow-green panicles, growing
on good fresh-ground Meadows is one of the first class and cutting grasses are abundant, very
fine, soft hay.

Trishagion (Greek, Hymnus angelicus, cherubicus, triumphant), who
in the Konsekrationsakt Fair customary singing of the "Thrice Holy",
taken from Isa.

6, 3, was already in the 4th Century common and was regarded as a liturgical confession of the
Trinity.

Trismegistus, Hermes Trismegistus see.

Trismus (Greek), gag, often one of the symptoms of tetanus.

Trissino, Giovanni Giorgio, Italian poet and scholar, born 8 June 1478 to Vicenza, lived under
the Popes Leo X. and Clement VII as Papal Nuncio some time in Venice and Died 1550 in Vienna and Rome.
He is best known as author of Sofonisba "(Rome, 1524; ed with the comments of T. Tasso. by Paglierani,
Bologna 1885; German by Feit, Lübeck 1888), the oldest regular tragedy of the Italians. The same
is strictly to the Aristotelian Rules drawn up, iambic pentameter Italian in blank (sciolti insured),
the first in the T. Literature is introduced, written, and reveals, in spite of their dependence
on ancient Patterns, a non-ordinary talent, but nowadays almost exclusively a litterarhistorischen
Value. Trissinos comedy "Isimillimi (Vened. 1548) is an imitation of Plautus. His Epic "Italia
Liberata da 'Goti (Vened. 1547-48, 3 vols, Par 1729, 3 vols), in 27 songs, unpoetic and boring and
is now forgotten. are not without value, however, some his "Rime" (Vicenza 1529). He is also
author of a poetics (Vicenza 1529) and various Records of the Italian language and has written Dante
De vulgari eloquio "first translated into Italian.

A complete edition of his works appeared in Venice 1729th See Nicolini,
Giangiorgio T. (Vicenza 1864); Morsolin, GT (ibid.

1878).

Trist (Latin), sad, sad; desolate.

Tristan da Cunha (pronounced Kunja), island group in the South Atlantic. Ocean, southwest of the
Cape of Good Hope, consists of three volcanic islands, the largest,
preferably T. called really only an extinct volcano, which rises up
to 2600 m and 116 sq km (2.1 sq.m.) covers.

It was named after the Portuguese explorer (1506), is round in form
and well watered and appears as a good place for fishing and water
turtles Oral for seafarers, as determined by India or Australia, not
to the Cape

853

Tristan and Isolde - Triton horns.

want to place.

During the captivity of Napoleon at St. Helena was the British government
occupied the island, as it should be abandoned in 1821, acquired the
Corporal William Glass and two sailors permission to settle permanently
on the island.

The result was a small colony, which in 1886 counted 94 heads, it is under the protection of Kapgouverneurs
out since 1867 and the name of Edinburgh.

Tristan and Isolde, the two main characters originally a Celtic legend, which by several northern
French poets in the 12th Cent, was treated and then in the Spanish,
Italian, Slavic, Scandinavian and even in the Greek literature passed.

On German soil transplanted first Eilhart by Oberg (sd), the forecast at the end of the 12th
Century edited by French after the poem, which is also a later prose resolution (First printed
in 1484, also in Simrock's "people's books" included) is based. Most excellent German literature,
however, which the legend of T. and I. the subject, which is also edited by a French original poem
by Gottfried von Strassburg. About the content the forecast and recent edits them see Gottfried
von Strassburg. See Mone, On the Legend of Tristan (Heidelb. 1822); Golther, The saga of T. & I. (Münch.
1887).

Tristen, s. Feimer.

Tristichon (Greek), three-part poem.

Tristien (Latin), sorrow songs (originally wrote songs of elegies,
which Ovid in exile).

Tristychius, s. Selachier.

Trisyllabum (Greek) word of three syllables.

Triterne (Latin), s. Duerne.

Tritheim (Trittenheim Latinized, Trithemius), John, actually Heidenberg, famous Humanist, born 1 February
1462 to kick home in Trier's, studied in Heidelberg, was in 1482
Benedictine monk died and 16 December 1516 as abbot of St. Jacob in
Würzburg.

He has to the transport of Sciences merits acquired, but he took in his historical Works without all
the fake stories and criticism. His "Opera spiritualia" (Mainz 1604) and "Paralipomena" (ibid. 1605)
were Busäus, his "Opera historica" ​​by Frehe (Frankf. 1601, 2 vols) published. See Silbert,
John Trithemius (2nd edition, Regensb 1885th), snow goose, JT Abbot
and monastery of Sponheim (Kreuzn.

1882).

Tritheism (Greek), predominant in the Christian doctrinal history
the unity of the essence Emphasis on the personal distinction within
the Trinity (qv), as the same in the church The ancient Monophysite
John Philoponus, and later given to the scholastics Roscellinus blame
was.

Triticum, genus, see wheat.

Tritogeneia, epithet of Athena (sd).

Triton, Newt.

Triton, in Greek myth, son of Poseidon and Amphitrite, lived with those at the bottom the sea in
a golden palace. When his real home was in the fabulous Tritonis Africa, in particular the
Argonauts. One imagined him with a human torso, the tail ends in a Delphi before; him too, short
bull horns and pointed ears given. His attribute is a spiral sea shell on which he sometimes stormy,
sometimes gently blows to energize or to calm the waters.

Then gradually formed the idea by a large number of tritons, which
also double as a protean nature, except occasionally the human torso
and a fish tail or with the forelegs of a horse, thought and appear.

From ancient sculptures is especially the torso of the Vatican Museum (Fig. 1) to mention, what with
the wild, untamed nature, which are in motion and Body utters those caused sadness in the trains,
as all sea-gods of the ancient Art is given, combined excellent. See also the beautiful statuary group
of the Neapolitan Museums (2), plays around in what T., of Cupids, kidnapped a Nereid.

Tritonikon, see contrabassoon.

Triton Horns (Tritoniidae ad.) Snail family of Procedure of the prosobranch (Prosobranchia), have a
large, widely protruding head, a long snout and a long breathing tube, large, cone-shaped probe
with eyes in the middle of its outer side and an ovoid or spindle-shaped Scrape with straight or
slightly aufgebogenem channel, thornless bumps on the turns and sought
or wrinkled spindle.

Tritonium nodiferum Lam.

854

Tritone - Triumvirate.

(Kinkhorn, conch), the Mediterranean, the Buccina of the ancients, which even the ancient Quirites
called to arms and even today the signal type used in rural work place. Variegatum T. Lam.,
In the Indian Ocean, is still a war trumpet. A large Role played by T. in the mythological representations,
and then in the pictures, statuary and relief of the Rococo period.

See also Faßschnecke.

Tritone, augmented fourth of the Greek name, which is an interval of three whole tones (Eg,
fh); as voices step of T. in the strict sentence was frowned upon. See voice-leading.

Tritoprismen and Tritopyramiden, s. Deuteroprismen, Deuteropyramiden and Crystal, p. 232 f.

Tritschinapalli
(Trichinopolly), capital of a district (or the 9104 sq km 165.3 QM
with [1881] 1,215,033 inhabitants) in the indobrit.

Madras Presidency, at the Kaweri and the Southern Railway, is Seat
of a Catholic bishop, has a meteorological observatory, several hospitals
and churches, three Protestant missions (2 English, a German) and
2 colleges.

On a 91 m high pinnacle in the middle of the city a famous pilgrimage temple of the Hindu. T.
has a And Garrison (1883) 84.449 inhabitants (11.155 including Christians),
what famous cigars and gold products .

Fabricate

Tritschler, Alexander, architect, born 10th Feb. 1828 to Biberach, visited the Polytechnic
in Stuttgart, from 1848 to 1859 was engaged in railway construction in Württemberg and Switzerland
and in 1860 Professor at the Technical University in Stuttgart, later became town planner and by
presentation of the first class of the Württemberg Crown knighted. His most Renaissance performed
major works are: the restoration of the chapel of the old castle, the Central Post Office,
the junior high school, the House of Württemberg mortgage bank, which Magnification of the Royal Polytechnic
Institute in Stuttgart.

Occurs, the print-run of the game, kicking the feet of chickens, pigeons and small birds.

Trittau, village in the Prussian. Province of Schleswig-Holstein, Stormarn, near the Bille, has a
Protestant church, a district court and (1885) 1386 inh

Occurs iron, see iron plate.

Occurs machine, treadmill see.

Triumph (Latin), the ancient Romans of the solemn entry of a victorious general with his army
in the city of Rome. The request went to the Senate from the commander, and was, as the same
foot in front of the T. The city was not allowed in the temple of Bellona, ​​or on the Campus
made. Had the Senate approved the expense of state to organizing T. so granted the people of
the commander for the day of triumph, the empire in the city. The train moved from the Field of
Mars through the Porta triunmphalis in the Circus Flaminius, in which a suitable Room for a lot
of the audience, offered from there through the Porta Carmentalis in the city, then the Velabrum
and Forum Boarium in the Circus Maximus, continue along the Via Sacra on the Forum to the Capitol.
The train opened the magistrates and the Senate, followed them Musician and a long series of
superb objects captured in images of the captured Cities or countries and the golden crowns,
which were dedicated to the provinces to the victor (See the table "Sculpture IV", Figure 14,
where a group from the triumph of Titus with the spoils of the Jewish War is shown). A train
of white oxen with gilded Horns, the victim in the Capitol was designed, which make the prisoners
in Chains joined, who were executed immediately after the T.. At last, after his purple-robed
lictors appeared the victor himself on a white four horses drawn
chariot.

His robes, the tunica palmata (sd) and the toga picta (sd), was the of the Capitoline Jupiter and
lent itself to the temple treasury, in the right He led a laurel branch in his left hand an ivory,
decorated with an eagle Scepter. Above his head a slave held a golden crown of Jupiter, but it also Jo
the triumphs, the cheers of the people called out: "Remember that you are human!" The Sons
and daughters and their nearest relatives surrounded the victor, by the victory of the same freed
from the bondage of Roman citizenship followed, and the whole army was the end. At the Capitol
the victor performed a prayer of thanksgiving, let the sacrificial slaughter laid the laurel branch,
and later a palm tree in the lap of Jupiter down and dedicated to the god part of the booty.
A banquet, which he considered his friends and the men of the City was determined to the day. A lesser
kind of triumph was the Ovation (sd). Since of Augustus, and still more since Vespasian's government,
the triumph of rare and were usually only to the emperors. about the triumphs were celebrated
directories that sucked. Fasti triumphant, out. Besides the actual T. came before the Triumphus
navalis and Triumphus in monte Albano, the latter of commanders, not those of the solemn T.
was granted, was held at the Alban Berg.

Arc de Triomphe (arch or fornix triumphalis), a detached, thor-shaped
building, which Originally built in Rome in honor of the emperor or
triumphant generals and was either only one pass or a main passage
and two side passages, all with a semicircular Contains conclusion.

T. preserved in Rome, except the ruins of the triumphal arch of the
Drusus, those of Titus, Septimius Severus and Constantine (see table
"architecture VI, Fig 7).

Other buildings of the kind are triumphal arch, like that of Gallienus,
or archway, as that of Janus and the Dolabella.

Outside Rome have been preserved: the temple of Augustus at Rimini,
then to Susa, Aosta and Fano, that of Trajan at Benevento and Ancona,
the Hadrian in Athens, that of Marius at Orange in France.

There are also temple at Pola, Verona, Saint-Remy Capara in southern
France and in Spain.

More recently, partly in Paris (Arc de Triomphe de l'Etoile du Carrousel and), Milan (Arco della
Pace), Innsbruck, Munich (Victory gate), etc. O. been established. T. All these are rich with
artistic decoration, particularly with reliefs fitted (see table "Sculpture IV, Fig 14). In
the early Christian and Armenian Is the Gothic Basilica of T. in front of the sanctuary, the church between
nave and choir vagina located high arch, which usually represented the triumphant Redeemer was
or what was hanging in a powerful cross.

Triumvirate (Latin), s. triumvirate.

Triumvirate (triumviri or Tresviri, Latin, "Three-

855

Triunfo - Trochu.

men "), in Rome the names of the three-member colleges whose determination
is given in detail by an addition.

The magistrates minores, the inferior magistrates, included: the triumviri capitales, used
up 289 BC, over which the surveillance the Prisons, the execution
of death sentences and most actions of the lower public Police were
transferred, and the T. monetales, the head of the coinage, probably
269 used BC and the T. nocturni that ensure the safety of cities at
night had on their other obligations, however, and the time it was
set up nothing certain is determined.

Of far greater importance are the political associations of three Men in the last century of
the Republic for the purpose of the entire state power per se tear, which are called Triumvirate. The
first of the Triumvirate, that of Caesar, Pompey and Crassus, closed 60 BC, was a mere private association.
The second was concluded in AD 43 on an island of Reno between Antony,
Octavian and Lepidus.

After they were recovered in Rome, they were 27th Nov. through a
law as T. rei publicae constituendae, ie the order of the State with
the highest authorities at the time until the last December 38 confirmed
by the people, and after that time they were this power to another
five years.

Triunfo (El T), city in the southern part of the territory
mexikan. California, in the interior, with silver and gold mines and
4,000 inhabitants

Trivandrum, the capital of indobrit. Vassal principality
Travankor, 3 ½ km from the Indian Ocean, Residence of the Maharajah
in an old fort and the British resident and a Catholic Bishop has
several very nice building, a medical school, college, museum, hospitals,
an observatory, a Protestant missionary and 41.173 (1881) inh

Trivento,
town in the Italian
To hell with morale!"

Sergeant Walpole reached in and pulled out the battery. Bissel batteries turn out six hundred
volts these days, and they make a fat spark when short-circuited.

"For Gawd's sake!" said Sergeant Walpole. "If they can pick up sparks from a motor, can't they
pick 'em up from this? What the hell y'doin'? Y'want 'em droppin' eggs on us? Say!"

       *       *       *       *       *

He stopped short, his eyes burning. He began to talk, suddenly groping for words while he waved
the high-powered small battery in his hand. The helicopter man listened, at first skeptically
and then with an equally hungry enthusiasm.

"Sergeant," he said evenly, "that's an idea! A whale of an idea! A hell of a fine idea! Let's
get some rockets!"

"Why rockets?" demanded Sergeant Walpole in his turn. "Whatcha want to do? Celebrate the Fourth
o' July?"

The 'copter man explained, this time, and Sergeant Walpole seized upon the addition. Then they
began a hunt. They roved the town over, and it was not pleasant. When the Wabbly had gone into
that town there had still been very many living human beings in it. Some of them had believed
in the ability of the artillery to defend the town against a single monster. Some had had no
means of getting away. But all of them had tried to get away when the Wabbly went lurching
in among the houses.

For them, the Wabbly had spewed out deadly gases. Also it had simply forged ahead. And the
two living men in their gas-masks paid as little attention as possible to the bodies in the
streets, most of them in flimsy night-clothing, struck down in frenzied flight, but they could
not help seeing too much....

In the end they went back to the artillery-positions and found signal-rockets there. Two full
cases of them, marvelously unexploded. A little later two monocycles purred madly in the beaten-down
paths of the monstrous treads. Sergeant Walpole bore very many Bissel batteries, which will
deliver six hundred volts even on short-circuit for half an hour at a time. The 'copter man
carried some of them, too, and both men were loaded down.

       *       *       *       *       *

When dawn came they were hollow-eyed and gaunt and weary. It had started to rain, too, and
both of them were drenched. They could see no more than a couple of hundred yards in every
direction, and they were hungry, and they had seen things no man should have to look upon,
in the way of destruction. They came upon a wrecked artillery-train just as the world lightened
to a pallid gray. Guns twisted and burst. Caissons, no more than shattered scraps of metal,
because of the explosion of the shells within them. And the tread-tracks of the Wabbly led
across the mess. Steam still rose, hissing softly, from the bent and twisted guns which had
burst when they were heated to redness by the power-beam. And there was a staff gyrocar crumpled
against a tree where it had been flung by some explosion or other. There were neither sound
nor wounded men about; only dead ones. The Wabbly had been here.

"Hullo," said the helicopter man in a dreary levity, "there's a portable vision set in this
car. Let's call up the general and see how he is?"

Sergeant Walpole spat. Then he held up his hand. He was listening. Far off in the drumming
downpour of the rain there was a rumbling sound. He had heard it before. It was partly made
up of the noise of internal-combustion engines of unthinkable power, and partly of grumbling
treads forcing a way through reluctant trees. It was a long way off, now, but it was coming nearer.

"The Wabbly," said Sergeant Walpole. "Comin' back. Why? Hell's bells! Why's it comin' back?"

"I don't know," said the 'copter man, "but let's get some rockets fixed up."

The two of them worked almost lackadaisically. They were tired out. But they took the tiny
Bissel batteries and twisted the attached wires about the rocket-heads. They had twenty or
thirty of them fixed by the time the noise of the Wabbly was very near. There was the noise
of felled trees, pushed down by the Wabbly in its progress. Great, crackling crashes, and then
crunching sounds, and above them the thunderous smooth purring rumble of the monster. The 'copter
man climbed into the upside-down staff car. He turned the vision set on and fiddled absurdly
with the controls.

"I'm getting something," he announced suddenly. "The bomber up aloft is sending its stuff down
a beam, a tight beam to the Wabbly. Listen to it!"

       *       *       *       *       *

The uncouth, clacking syllables of the enemy tongue came from the vision set. Someone was speaking
crisply and precisely somewhere. Blurred, indistinct flashes appeared on the vision set screen.

"They ought to be worried," the 'copter man said wearily. "Even an infra-red telescope can't
pick up a damned thing through clouds like this. And the Wabbly's in a mess without a bomber
to help...."

Sergeant Walpole did not reply. He was exhausted. He sat looking tiredly off through the rain
in the direction of the approaching noise. Somehow it did not occur to him to run away. He
sat quite still, smoking a soggy cigarette.

Something beaked and huge appeared behind a monstrous oak-tree. It came on. The oak-tree crackled,
crashed, and went down. It was ground under by the monstrous war-engine that went over it.
The Wabbly was unbelievably impersonal and horrible in its progress. There had been a filling-station
for gyrocars close by the place where the artillery-train had been wrecked. One of the eight-foot
treads loomed over that station, descended upon it--and the filling-station was no more. The
Wabbly was then not more than a hundred yards from Sergeant Walpole, less than a city block.
He looked at it in a weary detachment. It was as high as a four-story house, and it was two
hundred feet long, and forty feet wide at the treads with the monstrous gun-bulges reaching
out an extra ten or fifteen feet on either side above. And it came grumbling on toward him.

PART VI

    "... Considered as a strategic move, the Wabbly was a
    triumph. Eighteen hours after its landing, the orders
    for troops called for half a million men to be
    withdrawn from the forces at the front and in reserve,
    and munitions-factories were being diverted from the
    supply of the front to the manufacture of devices
    designed to cope with it. This, in turn, entailed
    changes in the front-line activities of the Command....
    Altogether, it may be said that the Wabbly, eighteen
    hours after its landing, was exerting the military
    pressure of an army of not less than half a million men
    upon the most vulnerable spot in our defenses--the
    rear.... And when its effect upon civilian morale is
    considered, the Wabbly, as a force in being,
    constituted the most formidable military unit in
    history." If ignition of the prostate gland, the patients complain of
severe pain at the dam, and the swollen gland is felt from the rectum, urination and defecation
are complaining and very painful. The patients can neither walk nor sit, but are forced to
lie. The lymph glands in the groin are swollen, can ignite and fester. The Night Ripper, the symptoms
are less severe, lack the pain or are very insignificant, but the slimy discharge can cause weeks
and persist for months. The opening of the urethra, bonded especially liked the night. As Episodes
of gonorrhea are primarily narrowing of the urethra, which usually deep to the back Sitting
highlighted (see stricture). The treatment of gonorrhea requires, above all, peace and even
heat, with violent inflammation and swelling of the testicles cold, leech or warm, moist fomentations,
internally cooled salts and soothing agents, hard-working, drinking water and narrow, non-irritating
diet. Above all, the patient has many beers entirely to contain, to wear when walking a jockstrap.
As a specific means are the Kopaivabalsam and cubeb, but it is in most cases with correct
general behavior without them the goal. Later, when the pain subsides, you turn slightly astringent
Injections (weak solutions of zinc sulfate) in the urethra, it's against the painful Erections opium
lupulin. T. of the female sex is restricted almost never the urethra, rather it is only a partial
manifestation of the malignant white river (qv). In both sexes can be complicated sometimes with
syphilis (see Syphilis). - About balanorrhœa s. glans inflammation.

Trippergicht (Tripperrheumatismus), a joint inflammation, which is not especially in men rarely in the
course of gonorrhea, often at the stage of the night ripper, is established.

The seat is usually the knee joint (Tripperknie), but also hand, foot and other Joints affected.
As the stripper itself by the occurrence of an infectious substance in Body is formed, it
is also the part as a result of the same Fortschleppung Gifts the tissues of the joints to be
understood. Course and treatment of T. is the same as any otherwise incurred by joint inflammation.

Tripsis
(Greek), friction; trip table, caused by friction.

Triptis, city in Weimar.

Neustadt district, at the origin of Orla, intersection of lines Gera-Eichicht
and T. Blankenstein, the Prussian State Railways, 361 m above sea
level.

M. has 2 churches, an old tower from the sorbent time, tanning, and Leimsiederei (1885) 1632 Protestant
inhabitants.
 It nearly paralleled, here, a ribbon of concrete road which once
had been a reasonably important feeder-highway.

"Let's go."

They went off through the rain along the road, nearly parallel to the route the Wabbly was
taking. Rain beat at them. Off in the woods to their right the Wabbly's noise grew louder as
they overtook it. They passed it, and came abruptly out of the wooded area upon cultivated
fields, rolling and beautifully cared-for. There had been a farm-headquarters off to one side,
a huge central-station for all the agricultural work on what once would have been half a county,
but there were jagged walls where buildings had been, and smoke still rose from the place.

Then the Wabbly came out of the woods, a dim gray monstrous shape in the rain.

       *       *       *       *       *

The helicopter man pulled the ignition-cord and a rocket began to sputter. He made a single
wipe with his knife-blade along the twisted insulated wires of the Bissel battery, and a wavering
blue spark leaped into being. The rocket shot upward, curved down, and landed with enough force
to bury its head in the muddy ploughed earth and conceal the signal-flare that must have ignited.

"That ought to do it," said the 'copter man. "Let's send some more."

Sergeant Walpole got exhaustedly off his monocycle and duplicated the 'copter man's efforts.
A second rocket, a third.... A dozen or more rockets went off, each one bearing a wavering,
uncertain blue spark at its tip. And that spark would continue for half an hour or more. In
a loop aerial, eight miles up, it might sound like a spark-plug, or it might sound like something
else. But it would not sound like the sort of thing that ought to spring up suddenly in front
of the Wabbly, and it would sound like something that had better be bombed, for safety's sake.

The Wabbly was moving across the ploughed fields with a deceptive smoothness. It was drawing
nearer and nearer to the spot where the rockets had plunged to earth.

It stopped.

Another rocket left the weary pair of men, its nearly flashless exhaust invisible in the daytime,
anyway. The Wabbly backed slowly from the irregular line where the first rockets sparked invisibly.
It was no more than a distinct gray shadow in the falling rain, but the queer bulk atop its
body moved suddenly. Like a searchlight, the power-beam swept the earth before the Wabbly.
But nothing happened.

The 'copter man turned on the vision set he had packed from the staff gyrocar. Voices, crisp
and anxious, came out of it. He caressed the set affectionately.

"Listen to 'em, Sergeant," he said hungrily. "They're worried!"

       *       *       *       *       *

The voice changed suddenly. There was a sudden musical buzzing in the set, as of two dozen
spitting sparks, in as many tones, all going at once.

"Letting the guys in the Wabbly hear what they hear," said the 'copter man grimly. "If God's
good to us, now...."

The voices changed again. They stopped.

The Wabbly itself was still, halted in its passage across a clear and rain-swept field by little
sparking sounds which seemed to indicate the presence of something that had better be bombed
for safety's sake.

A thin whining noise came down from aloft. It rose to a piercing shriek, and there was a gigantic
crater a half mile from the Wabbly, from which smoke rose lazily. The Wabbly remained motionless.
Another whining noise which turned to a shriek.... The explosion was terrific. It was a bit
nearer the Wabbly.

"We'll send 'em some more rockets," said the 'copter man.

They went hissing invisibly through the rain. The Wabbly backed cautiously away from the spot
where they landed, because they were wholly invisible and they made a sound which those in
the Wabbly could not understand. Always, to a savage, the unexplained is dangerous. Modern
warfare has reached the same high peak of wisdom. The Wabbly drew off from the sparks because
it could not know what made them, and because it had used its power-beam and the bomber had
dropped its bombs without stopping or destroying them. It was not conceivable to anybody on
either the Wabbly or the bombers aloft that inexplicable things could be especially contrived
to confront the Wabbly, unless they were contrived to destroy it.

"They don't know what in hell they're up against," said the 'copter man joyously. "Now lets
give 'em fits!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Rockets went off in swift succession. To the blinded men in the bomber above the clouds it
seemed that unexplained mechanisms were springing into action by dozens, all about the Wabbly.
They were mechanisms. They were electric mechanisms. They were obviously designed to have some
effect on the Wabbly. And the Wabbly had no defense against the unguessed-at effects of unknown
weapons except....

Bombs began to rain from the sky. The Wabbly crawled toward the last gap left in the ring of
mysterious mechanisms. That closed. Triumphant, singing sparks sang viciously in the amplifiers.
Nothing was visible. Nothing! Perhaps that was what precipitated panic. The bombers rained
down their deadly missiles. And somebody forgot the exact length of time it takes a bomb to
drop eight miles....

Sergeant Walpole and the 'copter man were flat on the ground with their hands to their ears.
The ground bucked and smote them. As he lies there
in his dilapidated body shape, and occasionally picks up a long, rattling breath the bony chest,
which is visible under the tattered shirt. The arms and legs, broken not only in the joints, take
it as the most unnatural positions. The heel of the small foot is rotated forward. The arms tremble
on the edge of the stretcher.

Lene whines on and on, every trace of her former defiance is gone from her being. They continually
repeated a story that they wash away of all blame in the incident
should.

Thiel does not seem to be observed, with terribly anxious expression stick to his eyes the child.

It
is still grown around, dead silent, black and hot, the tracks rest
on the dazzling Gravel.

The lunch has stifled the winds, and motionless as stone stands of forest.

The men advised quietly.

You have to order the fastest way to Frederick Hagen come back to the station, which lies in the
direction Breslau, since the next train, a accelerated passenger train, not on the Friedrichshagen
nearer to stop.

Thiel seems to consider whether he should go with. At present there is no one of the service
understands.

A silent gesture means his wife to take up the bier, she does not dare to oppose, although
she is concerned about the remaining infant. She and the stranger carry the stretcher. Thiel
accompanied the train to the border of his district, then He remains there and looked after
him for long. Suddenly he hits with his open hand before the end is that we still resounds.

He means to give themselves, "because it will be a dream, like yesterday," he says to himself. -
In vain. - More staggering than running, he reached his house.

Inside, he fell on the Earth, the face-first. His cap rolled into the corner, his embarrassment
was maintained Clock from his pocket, jumped the capsule, the glass broke. It was as if he held
an iron fist packed in the neck, so tightly that he could not move, so he also groans groans
and tried to make himself free. His forehead was cold, dry his eyes, his throat burned.

The signal bell woke him. Under the impression that repeating three bells left after the attack.
Thiel was able to stand up and do its job.

Although his feet were leaden, but it revolved around the track like the spoke of a huge wheel,
the Axis of his head was, but he won at least as much force to maintain itself for some time.

The
passenger train was approaching. Tobias had to be in it. The closer
he drew, the more blurred the images before Thiel's eyes. In the end
he only saw the battered boy with the bloody Mouth. Then it was night.

After
a while he awoke from a swoon. He found himself close to the barrier
in the hot Sands lie. He stood up, shook the sand from his clothes
and spat them out his mouth. At this critical moment it was Sam to lose his hat, as if the wind had been blowing
it to him, in consequence of which he a loud, peculiar to him Cry uttered by which Elisha
was aware of him. | |                                                           |
|Page 414 Moral                                             | |Morale effect," said the major-general
| |                                                           | |Page 417 Pp. 93 (Normalized
to match other epigram styles.)| |War College. P. 93                                      
| |                                                           | |Page 406 protuberence    
| |there, and already a monstrous protuberance                | |                         
| |Page 416 Lets                                              | |of a fine idea! It turns then a
discolored, Later purely purulent discharge from the urethra. The above phenomena usually reach the highest
level at the end of the first eight days. interfere in the night painful erections sleep.
 The same     | +-----------------------------------------------------------+

