Years have rolled away, and some of the actors in this wayside drama have passed into the Unknown;
other onions have arisen, have flourished, have gone their way, and the offending hen has long
since expiated her misdeeds and lain with trussed feet and a look of ineffable peace under
the arched roof of Barnstaple market.

But the Blood-feud of Toad-Water survives to this day.

A YOUNG TURKISH CATASTROPHE IN TWO SCENES

The Minister for Fine Arts (to whose Department had been lately added the new sub-section of
Electoral Engineering) paid a business visit to the Grand Vizier.  According to Eastern etiquette
they discoursed for a while on indifferent subjects.  The minister only checked himself in
time from making a passing reference to the Marathon Race, remembering that the Vizier had
a Persian grandmother and might consider any allusion to Marathon as somewhat tactless. Presently
the Minister broached the subject of his interview.

"Under the new Constitution are women to have votes?" he asked suddenly.

"To have votes?  Women?" exclaimed the Vizier in some astonishment. "My dear Pasha, the New
Departure has a flavour of the absurd as it is; don't let's try and make it altogether ridiculous.
Women have no souls and no intelligence; why on earth should they have votes?"

"I know it sounds absurd," said the Minister, "but they are seriously considering the idea
in the West."

"Then they must have a larger equipment of seriousness than I gave them credit for.  After
a lifetime of specialised effort in maintaining my gravity I can scarcely restrain an inclination
to smile at the suggestion.  Why, out womenfolk in most cases don't know how to read or write.
How could they perform the operation of voting?"

"They could be shown the names of the candidates and where to make their cross."

"I beg your pardon?" interrupted the Vizier.

"Their crescent, I mean," corrected the Minister.  "It would be to the liking of the Young
Turkish Party," he added.

"Oh, well," said the Vizier, "if we are to do the thing at all we may as well go the whole
h- " he pulled up just as he was uttering the name of an unclean animal, and continued, "the
complete camel. I will issue instructions that womenfolk are to have votes."

* * *

The poll was drawing to a close in the Lakoumistan division.  The candidate of the Young Turkish
Party was known to be three or four hundred votes ahead, and he was already drafting his address,
returning thanks to the electors.  His victory had been almost a foregone conclusion, for he
had set in motion all the approved electioneering machinery of the West.  He had even employed
motorcars.  Few of his supporters had gone to the poll in these vehicles, but, thanks to the
intelligent driving of his chauffeurs, many of his opponents had gone to their graves or to
the local hospitals, or otherwise abstained from voting.  And then something unlooked-for happened.
The rival candidate, Ali the Blest, arrived on the scene with his wives and womenfolk, who
numbered, roughly, six hundred.  Ali had wasted little effort on election literature, but had
been heard to remark that every vote given to his opponent meant another sack thrown into the
Bosphorus.  The Young Turkish candidate, who had conformed to the Western custom of one wife
and hardly any mistresses, stood by helplessly while his adversary's poll swelled to a triumphant
majority.

"Cristabel Columbus!" he exclaimed, invoking in some confusion the name of a distinguished
pioneer; "who would have thought it?"

"Strange," mused Ali, "that one who harangued so clamorously about the Secret Ballot should
have overlooked the Veiled Vote."

And, walking homeward with his constituents, he murmured in his beard an improvisation on the
heretic poet of Persia:

"One, rich in metaphors, his Cause contrives To urge with edged words, like Kabul knives; And
I, who worst him in this sorry game, Was never rich in anything but--wives."

JUDKIN OF THE PARCELS

A figure in an indefinite tweed suit, carrying brown-paper parcels. That is what we met suddenly,
at the bend of a muddy Dorsetshire lane, and the roan mare stared and obviously thought of
a curtsey. The mare is road-shy, with intervals of stolidity, and there is no telling what
she will pass and what she won't.  We call her Redford. That was my first meeting with Judkin,
and the next time the circumstances were the same; the same muddy lane, the same rather apologetic
figure in the tweed suit, the same--or very similar-- parcels.  Only this time the roan looked
straight in front of her.

Whether I asked the groom or whether he advanced the information, I forget; but someway I gradually
reconstructed the life-history of this trudger of the lanes.  It was much the same, no doubt,
as that of many others who are from time to time pointed out to one as having been aforetime
in crack cavalry regiments and noted performers in the saddle; men who have breathed into their
lungs the wonder of the East, have romped through life as through a cotillon, have had a thrust
perhaps at the Viceroy's Cup, and done fantastic horsefleshy things around the Gulf of Aden.
And then a golden stream has dried up, the sunlight has faded suddenly out of things, and the
gods have nodded "Go."  And they have not gone.  They have turned instead to the muddy lanes
and cheap villas and the marked- down ills of life, to watch pear trees growing and to encourage
hens for their eggs.  And Judkin was even as these others; the wine had been suddenly spilt
from his cup of life, and he had stayed to suck at the dregs which the wise throw away.  In
the days of his scorn for most things he would have stared the roan mare and her turn-out out
of all pretension to smartness, as he would have frozen a cheap claret behind its cork, or
a plain woman behind her veil; and now he was walking stoically through the mud, in a tweed
suit that would eventually go on to the gardener's boy, and would perhaps fit him. The dear
gods, who know the end before the beginning, were perhaps growing a gardener's boy somewhere
to fit the garments, and Judkin was only a caretaker, inhabiting a portion of them.  That is
what I like to think, and I am probably wrong.  And Judkin, whose clothes had been to him once
more than a religion, scarcely less sacred than a family quarrel, would carry those parcels
back to his villa and to the wife who awaited him and them--a wife who may, for all we know
to the contrary, have had a figure once, and perhaps has yet a heart of gold--of nine-carat
gold, let us say at the least--but assuredly a soul of tape.  And he that has fetched and carried
will explain how it has fared with him in his dealings, and if he has brought the wrong sort
of sugar or thread he will wheedle away the displeasure from that leaden face as a pastrycook
girl will drive bluebottles off a stale bun.  And that man has known what it was to coax the
fret of a thoroughbred, to soothe its toss and sweat as it danced beneath him in the glee and
chafe of its pulses and the glory of its thews.  He has been in the raw places of the earth,
where the desert beasts have whimpered their unthinkable psalmody, and their eyes have shone
back the reflex of the midnight stars--and he can immerse himself in the tending of an incubator.
It is horrible and wrong, and yet when I have met him in the lanes his face has worn a look
of tedious cheerfulness that might pass for happiness.  Has Judkin of the Parcels found something
in the lees of life that I have missed in going to and fro over many waters?  Is there more
wisdom in his perverseness than in the madness of the wise?  The dear gods know.

I don't think I saw Judkin more than three times all told, and always the lane was our point
of contact; but as the roan mare was taking me to the station one heavy, cloud-smeared day,
I passed a dull-looking villa that the groom, or instinct, told me was Judkin's home.  From
beyond a hedge of ragged elder-bushes could be heard the thud, thud of a spade, with an occasional
clink and pause, as if some one had picked out a stone and thrown it to a distance, and I knew
that HE was doing nameless things to the roots of a pear tree. Near by him, I felt sure, would
be lying a large and late vegetable marrow, and its largeness and lateness would be a theme
of conversation at luncheon.  It would be suggested that it should grace the harvest thanksgiving
service; the harvest having been so generally unsatisfactory, it would be unfair to let the
farmers supply all the material for rejoicing.

And while I was speeding townwards along the rails Judkin would be plodding his way to the
vicarage bearing a vegetable marrow and a basketful of dahlias.  The basket to be returned.

GABRIEL-ERNEST

"There is a wild beast in your woods," said the artist Cunningham, as he was being driven to
the station.  It was the only remark he had made during the drive, but as Van Cheele had talked
incessantly his companion's silence had not been noticeable.

"A stray fox or two and some resident weasels.  Nothing more formidable," said Van Cheele.
The artist said nothing.

"What did you mean about a wild beast?" said Van Cheele later, when they were on the platform.

"Nothing.  My imagination.  Here is the train," said Cunningham.

That afternoon Van Cheele went for one of his frequent rambles through his woodland property.
He had a stuffed bittern in his study, and knew the names of quite a number of wild flowers,
so his aunt had possibly some justification in describing him as a great naturalist.  At any
rate, he was a great walker.  It was his custom to take mental notes of everything he saw during
his walks, not so much for the purpose of assisting contemporary science as to provide topics
for conversation afterwards.  When the bluebells began to show themselves in flower he made
a point of informing every one of the fact; the season of the year might have warned his hearers
of the likelihood of such an occurrence, but at least they felt that he was being absolutely
frank with them.

What Van Cheele saw on this particular afternoon was, however, something far removed from his
ordinary range of experience.  On a shelf of smooth stone overhanging a deep pool in the hollow
of an oak coppice a boy of about sixteen lay asprawl, drying his wet brown limbs luxuriously
in the sun.  His wet hair, parted by a recent dive, lay close to his head, and his light-brown
eyes, so light that there was an almost tigerish gleam in them, were turned towards Van Cheele
with a certain lazy watchfulness.  It was an unexpected apparition, and Van Cheele found himself
engaged in the novel process of thinking before he spoke.  Where on earth could this wild-looking
boy hail from?  The miller's wife had lost a child some two months ago, supposed to have been
swept away by the mill-race, but that had been a mere baby, not a half-grown lad.

"What are you doing there?" he demanded.

"Obviously, sunning myself," replied the boy.

"Where do you live?"

"Here, in these woods."

"You can't live in the woods," said Van Cheele.

"They are very nice woods," said the boy, with a touch of patronage in his voice.

"But where do you sleep at night?"

"I don't sleep at night; that's my busiest time."

Van Cheele began to have an irritated feeling that he was grappling with a problem that was
eluding him.

"What do you feed on?" he asked.

"Flesh," said the boy, and he pronounced the word with slow relish, as though he were tasting it.

"Flesh!  What Flesh?"

