The American Negro Academy Occasional Papers, No. 2 THE CONSERVATION OF RACES W.E. Burghardt
Du Bois 1897

Announcement

The American Negro Academy believes that upon those of the race who have had the advantage
of higher education and culture, rests the responsibility of taking concerted steps for the
employment of these agencies to uplift the race to higher planes of thought and action.

Two great obstacles to this consummation are apparent:  (a) The lack of unity, want of harmony,
absence of a self- sacrificing spirit, and no well-defined line of policy seeking definite
aims; and (b) The persistent, relentless, at times covert opposition employed to thwart the
Negro at every step of his upward struggles to establish the justness of his claim to the highest
physical, intellectual and moral possibilities.

The Academy will, therefore, from time to time, publish such papers as in their judgment aid,
by their broad and scholarly treatment of the topics discussed the dissemination of principles
tending to the growth and development of the Negro along right lines, and the vindication of
that race against vicious assaults.

THE CONSERVATION OF RACES

	The American Negro has always felt an intense personal interest in discussions as to the origins
and destinies of races:  primarily because back of most discussions of race with which he is
familiar, have lurked certain assumptions as to his natural abilities, as to his political
, intellectual and moral status, which he felt were wrong. He has, consequently, been led to
deprecate and minimize race distinctions, to believe intensely that out of one blood God created
all nations, and to speak of human brotherhood as though it were the possibility of an already
dawning to-morrow.

	Nevertheless, in our calmer moments we must acknowledge that human beings are divided into
races; that in this country the two most extreme types of the world's races have met, and the
resulting problem as to the future relations of these types is not only of intense and living
interest to us, but forms an epoch in the history of mankind.

	It is necessary, therefore, in planning our movements, in guiding our future development,
that at times we rise above the pressing, but smaller questions of separate schools and cars,
wage-discrimination and lynch law, to survey the whole questions of race in human philosophy
and to lay, on a basis of broad knowledge and careful insight, those large lines of policy
and higher ideals which may form our guiding lines and boundaries in the practical difficulties
of every day. For it is certain that all human striving must recognize the hard limits of natural
law, and that any striving, no matter how intense and earnest, which is against the constitution
of the world, is vain. The question, then, which we must seriously consider is this:  What
is the real meaning of Race; what has, in the past, been the law of race development, and what
lessons has the past history of race development to teach the rising Negro people?

	When we thus come to inquire into the essential difference of races we find it hard to come
at once to any definite conclusion. Many criteria of race differences have in the past been
proposed, as color, hair, cranial measurements and language. And manifestly, in each of these
respects, human beings differ widely. They vary in color, for instance, from the marble-like
pallor of the Scandinavian to the rich, dark brown of the Zulu, passing by the creamy Slav,
the yellow Chinese, the light brown Sicilian and the brown Egyptian. Men vary, too, in the
texture of hair from the obstinately straight hair of the Chinese to the obstinately tufted
and frizzled hair of the Bushman. In measurement of heads, again, men vary; from the broad-headed
Tartar to the medium-headed European and the narrow-headed Hottentot; or, again in language,
from the highly- inflected Roman tongue to the monosyllabic Chinese. All these physical characteristics
are patent enough, and if they agreed with each other it would be very easy to classify mankind.
Unfortunately for scientists, however, these criteria of race are most exasperatingly intermingled.
Color does not agree with texture of hair, for many of the dark races have straight hair; nor
does color agree with the breadth of the head, for the yellow Tartar has a broader head than
the German; nor, again, has the science of language as yet succeeded in clearing up the relative
authority of these various and contradictory criteria. The final word of science, so far, is
that we have at least two, perhaps three, great families of human beings–the whites and Negroes,
possibly the yellow race. That other races have arisen from the intermingling of the blood
of these two. This broad division of the world's races which men like Huxley and Raetzel have
introduced as more nearly true than the old five-race scheme of Blumenbach, is nothing more
than an acknowledgment that, so far as purely physical characteristics are concerned, the differences
between men do not explain all the differences of their history. It declares, as Darwin himself
said, that great as is the physical unlikeness of the various races of men their likenesses
are greater, and upon this rests the whole scientific doctrine of Human Brotherhood.

	Although the wonderful developments of human history teach that the grosser physical differences
of color, hair and bone go but a short way toward explaining the different roles which groups
of men have played in Human Progress, yet there are differences–subtle, delicate and elusive,
though they may be– which have silently but definitely separated men into groups. While these
subtle forces have generally followed the natural cleavage of common blood, descent and physical
peculiarities, they have at other times swept across and ignored these. At all times, however,
they have divided human beings into races, which, while they perhaps transcend scientific definition,
nevertheless, are clearly defined to the eye of the Historian and Sociologist.

	If this be true, then the history of the world is the history, not of individuals, but of
groups, not of nations, but of races, and he who ignores or seeks to override the race idea
in human history ignores and overrides the central thought of all history. What, then, is a
race? It is a vast family of human beings, generally of common blood and language, always of
common history, traditions and impulses, who are both voluntarily and involuntarily striving
together for the accomplishment of certain more or less vividly conceived ideals of life.

	Turning to real history, there can be no doubt, first, as to the widespread, nay, universal,
prevalence of the race idea, the race spirit, the race ideal, and as to its efficiency as the
vastest and most ingenious invention of human progress. We, who have been reared and trained
under the individualistic philosophy of the Declaration of Independence and the laisser- faire
philosophy of Adam Smith, are loath to see and loath to acknowledge this patent fact of human
history. We see the Pharaohs, Caesars, Toussaints and Napoleons of history and forget the vast
races of which they were but epitomized expressions. We are apt to think in our American impatience,
that while it may have been true in the past that closed race groups made history, that here
in conglomerate America NOUS AVONS CHANGER TOUT CELA–we have changed all that, and have no
need of this ancient instrument of progress. This assumption of which the Negro people are
especially fond, can not be established by a careful consideration of history.

	We find upon the world's stage today eight distinctly differentiated races, in the sense in
which History tells us the word must be used. They are, the Slavs of eastern Europe, the Teutons
of middle Europe, the English of Great Britain and America, the Romance nations of Southern
and Western Europe, the Negroes of Africa and America, the Semitic people of Western Asia and
Northern Africa, the Hindoos of Central Asia and the Mongolians of Eastern Asia. There are,
of course, other minor race groups, as the American Indians, the Esquimaux and the South Sea
Islanders; these larger races, too, are far from homogeneous; the Slav includes the Czech,
the Magyar, the Pole and the Russian; the Teuton includes the German, the Scandinavian and
the Dutch; the English include the Scotch, the Irish and the conglomerate American. Under Romance
nations the widely-differing Frenchman, Italian, Sicilian and Spaniard are comprehended. The
term Negro is, perhaps, the most indefinite of all, combining the Mulattoes and Zamboes of
America and the Egyptians, Bantus and Bushmen of Africa. Among the Hindoos are traces of widely
differing nations, while the great Chinese, Tartar, Corean and Japanese families fall under
the one designation–Mongolian.

	The question now is:  What is the real distinction between these nations? Is it the physical
differences of blood, color and cranial measurements? Certainly we must all acknowledge that
physical differences play a great part, and that, with wide exceptions and qualifications,
these eight great races of to-day follow the cleavage of physical race distinctions; the English
and Teuton represent the white variety of mankind; the Mongolian, the yellow; the Negroes,
the black. Between these are many crosses and mixtures, where Mongolian and Teuton have blended
into the Slav, and other mixtures have produced the Romance nations and the Semites. But while
race differences have followed mainly physical race lines, yet no mere physical distinctions
would really define or explain the deeper differences–the cohesiveness and continuity of these
groups. The deeper differences are spiritual, psychical, differences– undoubtedly based on
the physical, but infinitely transcending them. The forces that bind together the Teuton nations
are, then, first, their race identity and common blood; secondly, and more important, a common
history, common laws and religion, similar habits of thought and a conscious striving together
for certain ideals of life. The whole process which has brought about these race differentiations
has been a growth, and the great characteristic of this growth has been the differentiation
of spiritual and mental differences between great races of mankind and the integration of physical
differences.

	The age of nomadic tribes of closely related individuals represents the maximum of physical
differences. They were practically vast families, and there were as many groups as families.
As the families came together to form cities the physical differences lessened, purity of blood
was replaced by the requirement of domicile, and all who lived within the city bounds became
gradually to be regarded as members of the group; i.e., there was a slight and slow breaking
down of physical barriers. This, however, was accompanied by an increase of the spiritual and
social differences between cities. This city became husbandmen, this, merchants, another warriors,
and so on. The IDEALS OF LIFE for which the different cities struggled were different. When
at last cities began to coalesce into nations there was another breaking down of barriers which
separated groups of men. The larger and broader differences of color, hair and physical proportions
were not by any means ignored, but myriads of minor differences disappeared, and the sociological
and historical races of men began to approximate the present division of races as indicated
by physical researches. At the same time the spiritual and physical differences of race groups
which constituted the nations became deep and decisive. The English nation stood for constitutional
liberty and commercial freedom; the German nation for science and philosophy; the Romance nations
stood for literature and art, and the other race groups are striving, each in its own way,
to develop for civilization its particular message, it particular ideal, which shall help to
guide the world nearer and nearer that perfection of human life for which we all long, that
"one far off Divine event."

	This has been the function of race differences up to the present time. What shall be its function
in the future? Manifestly some of the great races of today–particularly the Negro race–have
not as yet given to civilization the full spiritual message which they are capable of giving.
I will not say that the Negro-race has yet given no message to the world, for it is still a
mooted question among scientists as to just how far Egyptian civilization was Negro in its
origin; if it was not wholly Negro, it was certainly very closely allied. Be that as it may,
however, the fact still remains that the full, complete Negro message of the whole Negro race
has not as yet been given to the world:  that the messages and ideal of the yellow race have
not been completed, and that the striving of the mighty Slavs has but begun. The question is,
then:  How shall this message be delivered; how shall these various ideals be realized? The
answer is plain:  By the development of these race groups, not as individuals, but as races.
For the development of Japanese genius, Japanese literature and art, Japanese spirit, only
Japanese, bound and welded together, Japanese inspired by one vast ideal, can work out in its
fullness the wonderful message which Japan has for the nations of the earth. For the development
of Negro genius, of Negro literature and art, of Negro spirit, only Negroes bound and welded
together, Negroes inspired by one vast ideal, can work out in its fullness that great message
we have for humanity. We cannot reverse history; we are subject to the same natural laws as
other races, and if the Negro is ever to be a factor in the world's history–if among the gaily-colored
banners that deck the broad ramparts of civilizations is to hang one uncompromising black,
then it must be placed there by black hands, fashioned by black heads and hallowed by the travail
of 200,000,000 black hearts beating in one glad song of jubilee.

	For this reason, the advance guard of the Negro people–the 8,000,000 people of Negro blood
in the United States of America– must soon come to realize that if they are to take their just
place in the van of Pan-Negroism, then their destiny is NOT absorption by the white Americans.
That if in America it is to be proven for the first time in the modern world that not only
Negroes are capable of evolving individual men like Toussaint, the Saviour, but are a nation
stored with wonderful possibilities of culture, then their destiny is not a servile imitation
of Anglo-Saxon culture, but a stalwart originality which shall unswervingly follow Negro ideals.

	It may, however, be objected here that the situation of our race in America renders this attitude
impossible; that our sole hope of salvation lies in our being able to lose our race identity
in the commingled blood of the nation; and that any other course would merely increase the
friction of races which we call race prejudice, and against which we have so long and so earnestly
fought.

	Here, then, is the dilemma, and it is a puzzling one, I admit. No Negro who has given earnest
thought to the situation of his people in America has failed, at some time in life, to find
himself at these cross-roads; has failed to ask himself at some time:  What, after all, am
I? Am I an American or am I a Negro? Can I be both? Or is it my duty to cease to be a Negro
as soon as possible and be an American? If I strive as a Negro, am I not perpetuating the very
cleft that threatens and separates Black and White America? Is not my only possible practical
aim the subduction of all that is Negro in me to the American? Does my black blood place upon
me any more obligation to assert my nationality than German, or Irish or Italian blood would?

	It is such incessant self-questioning and the hesitation that arises from it, that is making
the present period a time of vacillation and contradiction for the American Negro; combined
race action is stifled, race responsibility is shirked, race enterprises languish, and the
best blood, the best talent, the best energy of the Negro people cannot be marshalled to do
the bidding of the race. They stand back to make room for every rascal and demagogue who chooses
to cloak his selfish deviltry under the veil of race pride.

	Is this right? Is it rational? Is it good policy? Have we in America a distinct mission as
a race–a distinct sphere of action and an opportunity for race development, or is self- obliteration
the highest end to which Negro blood dare aspire?

	If we carefully consider what race prejudice really is, we find it, historically, to be nothing
but the friction between different groups of people; it is the difference in aim, in feeling,
in ideals of two different races; if, now, this difference exists touching territory, laws,
language, or even religion, it is manifest that these people cannot live in the same territory
without fatal collision; but if, on the other hand, there is substantial agreement in laws,
language and religion; if there is a satisfactory adjustment of economic life, then there is
no reason why, in the same country and on the same street, two or three great national ideals
might not thrive and develop, that men of different races might not strive together for their
race ideals as well, perhaps even better, than in isolation. Here, it seems to me, is the reading
of the riddle that puzzles so many of us. We are Americans, not only by birth and by citizenship,
but by our political ideals, our language,  our religion. Farther than that, our Americanism
does not go. At that point, we are Negroes, members of a vast historic race that from the very
dawn of creation has slept, but half awakening in the dark forests of its African fatherland.
We are the first fruits of this new nation, the harbinger of that black to-morrow which is
yet destined to soften the whiteness of the Teutonic to-day. We are that people whose subtle
sense of song has given America its only American music, its only American fairy tales, its
only touch of pathos and humor amid its mad money-getting plutocracy. As such, it is our duty
to conserve our physical powers, our intellectual endowments, our spiritual ideals; as a race
we must strive by race organization, by race solidarity, by race unity to the realization of
that broader humanity which freely recognizes differences in men, but sternly deprecates inequality
in their opportunities of development.

	For the accomplishment of these ends we need race organizations:  Negro colleges, Negro newspapers,
Negro business organizations, a Negro school of literature and art, and an intellectual clearing
house, for all these products of the Negro mind, which we may call a Negro Academy. Not only
is all this necessary for positive advance, it is absolutely imperative for negative defense.
Let us not deceive ourselves at our situation in this country. Weighted with a heritage of
moral iniquity from our past history, hard pressed in the economic world by foreign immigrants
and native prejudice, hated here, despised there and pitied everywhere; our one haven of refuge
is ourselves, and but one means of advance, our own belief in our great destiny, our own implicit
trust in our ability and worth. There is no power under God's high heaven that can stop the
advance of eight thousand thousand honest, earnest, inspired and united people. But–and here
is the rub–they MUST be honest, fearlessly criticising their own faults, zealously correcting
them; they must be EARNEST. No people that laughs at itself, and ridicules itself, and wishes
to God it was anything but itself ever wrote its name in history; it MUST be inspired with
the Divine faith of our black mothers, that out of the blood and dust of battle will march
a victorious host, a mighty nation, a peculiar people, to speak to the nations of earth a Divine
truth that shall make them free. And such a people must be united; not merely united for the
organized theft of political spoils, not united to disgrace religion with whoremongers and
ward-heelers; not united merely to protest and pass resolutions, but united to stop the ravages
of consumption among the Negro people, united to keep black boys from loafing, gambling and
crime; united to guard the purity of black women and to reduce the vast army of black prostitutes
that is today marching to hell; and united in serious organizations, to determine by careful
conference and thoughtful interchange of opinion the broad lines of policy and action for the
American Negro.

	This, is the reason for being which the American Negro Academy has. It aims at once to be
the epitome and expression of the intellect of the black-blooded people of America, the exponent
of the race ideals of one of the world's great races. As such, the Academy must, if successful,
be 	(a).  Representative in character. 	(b).  Impartial in conduct. 	(c).  Firm in leadership.

	It must be representative in character; not in that it represents all interests or all factions,
but in that it seeks to comprise something of the BEST thought, the most unselfish striving
and the highest ideals. There are scattered in forgotten nooks and corners throughout the land,
Negroes of some considerable training, of high minds, and high motives, who are unknown to
their fellows, who exert far too little influence. These the Negro Academy should strive to
bring into touch with each other and to give them a common mouthpiece.

	The Academy should be impartial in conduct; while it aims to exalt the people it should aim
to do so by truth–not by lies, by honesty–not by flattery. It should continually impress the
fact upon the Negro people that they must not expect to have things done for them–they MUST
DO FOR THEMSELVES; that they have on their hands a vast work of self-reformation to do, and
that a little less complaint and whining, and a little more dogged work and manly striving
would do us more credit and benefit than a thousand Force or Civil Rights bills.

	Finally, the American Negro Academy must point out a practical path of advance to the Negro
people; there lie before every Negro today hundreds of questions of policy and right which
must be settled and which each one settles now, not in accordance with any rule, but by impulse
or individual preference; for instance:  What should be the attitude of Negroes toward the
educational qualification for voters? What should be our attitude toward separate schools?
How should we meet discriminations on railways and in hotels? Such questions need not so much
specific answers for each part as a general expression of policy, and nobody should be better
fitted to announce such a policy than a representative honest Negro Academy.

	All this, however, must come in time after careful organization and long conference. The immediate
work before us should be practical and have direct bearing upon the situation of the Negro.
The historical work of collecting the laws of the United States and of the various States of
the Union with regard to the Negro is a work of such magnitude and importance that no body
but one like this could think of undertaking it. If we could accomplish that one task we would
justify our existence.

	In the field of Sociology an appalling work lies before us. First, we must unflinchingly and
bravely face the truth, not with apologies, but with solemn earnestness. The Negro Academy
ought to sound a note of warning that would echo in every black cabin in the land:  UNLESS
WE CONQUER OUR PRESENT VICES THEY WILL CONQUER US; we are diseased, we are developing criminal
tendencies, and an alarmingly large percentage of our men and women are sexually impure. The
Negro Academy should stand and proclaim this over the housetops, crying with Garrison:  I WILL
NOT EQUIVOCATE, I WILL NOT RETREAT A SINGLE INCH, AND I WILL BE HEARD. The Academy should seek
to gather about it the talented, unselfish men, the pure and noble-minded women, to fight an
army of devils that disgraces our manhood and our womanhood. There does not stand today upon
God's earth a race more capable in muscle, in intellect, in morals, than the American Negro,
if he will bend his energies in the right direction; if he will Burst his birth's invidious
bar And grasp the skirts of happy chance, And breast the blow of circumstance, And grapple
with his evil star.

	In science and morals, I have indicated two fields of work for the Academy. Finally, in practical
policy, I wish to suggest the following ACADEMY CREED:

1.	We believe that the Negro people, as a race, have a contribution to make to civilization
and humanity, which no other race can make.

2.	We believe it the duty of the Americans of Negro descent, as a body, to maintain their race
identity until this mission of the Negro people is accomplished, and the ideal of human brotherhood
has become a practical possibility.

3.	We believe that, unless modern civilization is a failure, it is entirely feasible and practicable
for two races in such essential political, economic and religious harmony as the white and
colored people in America, to develop side by side in peace and mutual happiness, the peculiar
contribution which each has to make to the culture of their common country.

4.	As a means to this end we advocate, not such social equality between these races as would
disregard human likes and dislikes, but such a social equilibrium as would, throughout all
the complicated relations of life, give due and just consideration to culture, ability, and
moral worth, whether they be found under white or black skins.

5.	We believe that the first and greatest step toward the settlement of the present friction
between the races–commonly called the Negro Problem-lies in the correction of the immorality,
crime and laziness among the Negroes themselves, which still remains as a heritage from slavery.
We believe that only earnest and long continued efforts on our own part can cure these social ills.

6.	We believe that the second great step toward a better adjustment of the relations between
races, should be a more impartial selection of ability in the economic and intellectual world,
and a greater respect for personal liberty and worth, regardless of race. We believe that only
earnest efforts on the part of the white people of this country will bring much needed reform
in these matters.

7.	On the basis of the foregoing declaration, and firmly believing in our high destiny, we,
as American Negroes, are resolved to strive in every honorable way for the realization of the
best and highest aims, for the development of strong manhood and pure womanhood, and for the
rearing of a race ideal in America and Africa, to the glory of God and the uplifting of the
Negro people.

W.E. Burghardt Du Bois

