 This saw the crab washed their wounds and they brought flew and asked what's happened was.

The crab told her the folly of the monkey, about which the wasp was very upset and decided to punish
the monkey, she flew to some other friends, which told the story further and had finally brought
also to the extent that two of them, namely, an egg and a large, heavy rice mortar agree with
her told the monkeys to punish. But first had the crab until well again, so who visited three
of them and their suffering so well cared for, that she was soon restored completely paralyzed
except for a small In the right front leg.

But when the crab could go out again, war was held. The crab, the good-natured was, and with the
cessation of pain did not have any more thoughts of revenge, but wanted to such a severe punishment,
such as know the killing of the monkeys, which suggested the others, nothing. Finally it was agreed
that if the monkey ask for forgiveness and promise nothing More evil to do about the crab, should
be forgiven, if not, it must him go to life.

The Hornet was commissioned to announce this decision to the monkeys and to urge appear before
the House of crab to make his apology. It flew, sum, sum, in the not to distant forest, where
the monkey lived, and had the good fortune to meet him. Be reassured, my father has come home healthy and waiting for you. I
am against you come to expect you and to guide in our house. So, please, come and follow me! "

There
was the man of the heart was glad and happy to voranhüpfenden Sperling.

 "It
has been in the realm of the Fisher King praised the wonderful views that you have from here
should, and I am sent to determine whether this is so. You allow it, I am a little look around!
"

"Please, please," replied the bunny.

The turtle then looked forward, looked back, looked right and looked to the left, a few steps
made soon after this, now to that side and behaved as whether they
looked at everything carefully, then said, "Something very beautiful
I can not see, there we have the area boasted more than it's worth!

"

"Yes, Mrs. Turtle," said the hare, "on this side of the hill there
is nothing special to see, but you've got you care quite to the other
side!

Come, I will lead you! "

"What is there on the other side of the hill?"

"Much, much better than this! There are only meadows and pastures, but on the other side magnificent
cabbage and beet fields, so juicy, so delicious, a true joy, "cried the hare.
The turtle laughed and said, "You see the thing with the stomach
rather than with the eyes. But there is only, I have no desire to
see cabbage and beet fields, as I praise me the land of the king fish,
as there is everything good and beautiful, beautiful, cool forests,
beautiful Meadows, valleys, heights and areas in which the cabbage
heads are much larger and juicier than here on the dry earth. And
then the convenience, no effort, and effort. 

On the half-way she tormented the curiosity, it was imperative to know how much in the Box was.
Their curiosity and greed, it could not admit that she waited until she went home was. On a
space in the forest, they sat on the box and raised his trembling with excitement them the cover
to fall upon the wealth.

But with a terrible roar, the lid flew from her hands and climbed out of the box a Innumerable terrible
figures, ghosts, ghosts, devils and dragons and threatened the woman, which fell on his back
in shock, but then jumped up and ran away screaming, the crowd of
the box sprung fearful figures with a roar behind her.

The woman ran as fast as she could walk, she kept it to the ears to the terrible Roar not to hear
and every moment she thought that the claws of one of the monsters in feeling neck. So they ran through
the forest, met to trees and smashed his forehead, while the branches they whipped in the face
and the thorns tore her clothes, feet and hands. Only at the edge of the forest was quiet
and the noise stopped completely at last, when she exhausted battered and bruised before they
arrived home, where she fell unconscious. Your Man came out, carried her into the house and took
care of them.

When she finally opened her eyes and was healthy, because it was all converted, it was quiet
and patient and did not say a bad Word.

Furthermore, the man was very happy and lived with his now good woman many, many For many years,
during which charges both of their wealth to the poor and friends
and protectors the animal world were.

The birds and animals of the forest, they were then happy to house the old People were afraid
and no longer safe from the evil woman, now completely evil by their
Passions was free and happy to feed the animals scattered.

  

Thus, a sparrow was found grateful and improved the woman who cut off his tongue had, by the terrible
shock which she never forgot.

[Decoration]

The troubled crab.
In ancient times, when the animals were still alive as the people
who built houses and ordered fields, once lived in a small, clean
a crab house, close to a mountain, and although on its dark side,
because there is not too hot, but still pretty cool and moist the
constant is the love crabs. This crab was a hardworking and talented
housewife who with their hands painfully honest but struck through
life, while her house is always ok and was so busy from morning till
late. One day there was a Pilgrims in the shade near comfortable in
their home made and kept his dinner. Du Barry,
with whom he rose and fell (1720-1782). This can not go there with impunity. Your insolence will now cost you your life while you
shall taste quite nice to me, because I eat eggs for you! "

"Beware, monkey," cried the crab warned, "you know what is waiting
for thee, if thou thy evil Pranks can not!

"

"Lo, how I make your friends and your so-called threat of fear," said the monkey as and the egg
is laid on the coals to bake it. But the punishment was swift; for as he bent down on the
eggs to see how hot the dish by the Glut-brown colored, burst open
the shell and the hot pieces flew into his eyes and burned his face.

To relieve the pain, he hurried to the water bucket, but here waiting for him, the wasp, which,
when he wanted to put his face into the water, relentless losstach on him, so that before would
hasten pain screaming from the room, but when he walked through the door, jumped from the top
the mortar down and struck one with his flail at the monkey, and
now came the crab and the wasp out; former sat down on the monkey's
neck and pinched him, the wasp drew her sword and stabbed him to death
too, the egg had recovered and watched the spectacle.

Sun punished the inconspicuous nature of the malicious monkey.

It follows that evil deeds will always find their wages and that the
avenger even the youngest should give consideration not small.

  

    
    After the death of the monkeys survived the crab still many, many years
    in peace and contentment in the shadow of Kakibaumes and if it has
not been killed, but she now lives no more.

    
    

    [Image]

    
    [Note 1: Kaki = Persimonpflaume. Diospyros Kaki in Japan has the
    size of an apple and is very popular.

When eaten fresh, also dried after Feigenart.]

[Note 2: Ame (accent
on the e) = wheat gluten.

  Wheat fermented syrup, honey accordingly.]

[Note 3: = sake rice
wine.]

[Note 4: The Japanese do not know, sitting on chairs but squat
on the floor, how different images of this Book shows.]

[Colored
image]

[Decoration]

The clever rabbit.

One fine day, the fish swam King [1] in his kingdom around cheerfully, and it was a beautiful
day and the sun lit up the water to near the bottom. Then he saw Suddenly before him a big fat
worm that appeared to him at all appetizing, and he just felt a little hungry, so he swam to
the worm, snapped at him and - terrible pain shot through his body because he was sitting
on a fishing rod, the hook him in its mouth was. He tugged and tugged, and succeeded after a violent
struggle, and in great pain him finally to break the line and to swim in his palace, where
he focused on threw his camp and call the physicians did. When these were at the bedside of the Fisher
King, told He will be hardship, as he sat on the hook set and how he had finally succeeded in
to free themselves by breaking the fishing line and to forbid that his royal Ordinary two-legged
body that is hot man, to serve food.

"But the damn hook," he concluded his narrative, "who is sitting here in the throat and set me
It is impossible to remove him, I am suffering terrible pain. Whoever brings me out, I will
royally.

"There were now baffled doctors at the bedside of Fish King and discussed what to do.

The king became angry and left in his kingdom announcing who sent the fish hook from the Neck removed,
he will bear royal honor, and rich reward.

And there was a large movement in the water from all sides rushed
the subjects, the Great and dignitaries to the smallest, from the
whale until the stint.

All, all were heard the message, but she shook her head, because no one knew what to say, no
one could how to remove a fishing hook from the throat of a fish.

As reported at last a turtle that had been completely in the background. They pushed she explained
to the front and since, that the best means two very fresh rabbit
eyes (lights) and that that one must place it on the spot where sat
the hook, then would the hook by the rabbit eyes pulled out.

Those present agreed to the turtle, and the doctors, had listened to the Council, he appeared
well.

But where are they the rabbits eyes? The king ruled: "Whoever proposes a tool has also to provide
for such, so go get me the turtle and rabbit eyes, or you allowed to you in my kingdom can not
look!

"

"Well," said the Tortoise, "I will procure you a rabbit, the eyes
have to their Doctors even take him and allow me to remove me, because
I see no blood, and smell can! "

Of the turtle were all satisfied
and went on his way and was already the great honors and gifts that
you would be given, if she succeeds the hare to bring in the king's
palace. The sparrow accompanied
him part of the way and when he abandoned the old man on the edge of the forest adopted, he warned
him to open the box on the road. He could only open at home. The old man promised, as he now walked
his way, was the case on his Back harder still, so that he could scarcely bear and several times
was tempted to depose him and to see what was in it, but he remembered the warning of the sparrow
and walked on bravely until he finally exhausted all arrived at his house. Here he received his
wife with bad words and called him a loafer and vagabonds.

When the man told her, however, as it was delivered to him because it was very curious, and both
opened the box.

Imagine the joy! The box was up to the brim with gold and precious stones and precious Things
filled. Now had all the misery out. The old man again his experience had exactly . Tell When the
woman heard that he had chosen the smaller of the two boxes, there was they pale with anger
and rage and screamed at the old man: "You are and always will be a stupid Guy! No such boundless
stupidity never happened to me, a small box to To take if you can get a big one. Soon you'll
carry back the box and pick the larger, "

"Then I would be" really
stupid, "replied the old man," what we have now is sufficient for
our Live by, yes, it's more than too much.

What are we supposed to even greater wealth. I am completely satisfied and happy! "

Since the woman was still angry and said, "Then you had it, but I
want the big box must have and will get it myself!

"

No sooner had she said this, since it was already out of the house
and on the way to the sparrow's home.

Arriving at the bushes again stood the little sparrow.

»Take me to your father," she snapped at him.

"Come," said the sparrow, and short hopped forward.

In Sperling home only a few sparrows were present. The sparrow, which the woman's tongue cut off,
had received the woman and said to her: "I know why you come. But first sit down and recover
you from your path! "

She was led into the house and had to sit down, then they brought her a variety of food and drink
in closed basins.

When they cover the lust of the first bowl, raised
a frog jumped out. Then made they are to the other bowls, but everyone
was in any monster as toads, snakes and the like hidden in the drinking
vessels and foul-smelling water was so that they can in disgust horror
and had to get up and turn away hungry. Then she was led into the
room, where again two boxes were, one large, the other small. Without
waiting for a long time, took to the big box, took him on his back
and hurried away. The sparrow, she called out By:!, "Open the box
do not go" All right, all right, "shouted back the old woman, without
to stay, because she could not hide their desire at all. 

The next day had the crab is still out sick and she lay on her bed in to the head cover, stood
outside the mortar on a ledge above the door, the egg lay on the hearth, and the wasp sat on
the edge of a water bucket, the in a dark corner stood. As expected all four of the monkeys.
It did not take long he was creeping very scary. His nose was horrible due to the wasp sting swollen,
it looked so funny that the mortars shook with laughter and almost his place would have fallen
if he had not held fast. The monkey looked carefully to all sides, but when he saw anyone he
came closer and peered through the door to the room where he saw the crab still.
 As the hare, the sound of the approaching
tortoise heard this, he dropped the frightened cabbage head and sat up its hind legs up to
see who come there. Then he saw that it only the turtle was, he calmed down and welcomed.
 There is nothing left, " he added,
hypocritically, "than that you send the turtle back to shore and my Eyes get let-"" Yes, because
the turtle's eyes are too? "Remarked one of the Doctors'.
