It occurred to her that she might even yet go and meet him at the station. But if so, she must
tell him at once, and he would know that she had done so because she was afraid of her aunt,
and she disliked the idea of excusing herself before she was accused. If he really loved her,
he would listen to her, and believe her. If he did not--why then let Lady Ball have her own
way. She had promised to be firm, and she would keep her promise; but she would not intrigue
with the hope of making him firm. If he was infirm of purpose, let him go. So she sat in her
room, even when she heard the door close after his entrance, and did not go down till it was
time for her to show herself in the drawing-room before dinner. When she entered the room was
full. He nodded at her with a pleasant smile, and she made up her mind that he had heard nothing
as yet. Her uncle had excused himself from coming to table, and her aunt and John were talking
together in apparent eagerness about him. For one moment her cousin spoke to her before dinner.

"I am afraid," he said, "that my father is sinking fast."

Then she felt quite sure that he had as yet heard nothing about Mr Maguire.

But it was late in the evening, when other people had gone to bed, that Lady Ball was in the
habit of discussing family affairs with her son, and doubtless she would do so to-night. Margaret,
before she went up to her room, strove hard to get from him a few words of kindness, but it
seemed as though he was not thinking of her.

"He is full of his father," she said to herself.

When her bed-candle was in her hand she did make an opportunity to speak to him.

"Has Mr Slow settled anything more as yet?" she asked.

"Well, yes. Not that he has settled anything, but he has made a proposition to which I am willing
to agree. I don't go up to town to-morrow, and we will talk it over. If you will agree to it,
all the money difficulties will be settled."

"I will agree to anything that you tell me is right."

"I will explain it all to you to-morrow; and, Margaret, I have told Mr Slow what are my intentions,--our
intentions, I ought to say." She smiled at him with that sweet smile of hers, as though she
thanked him for speaking of himself and her together, and then she took herself away. Surely,
after speaking to her in that way, he would not allow any words from his mother to dissuade
him from his purpose?

She could not go to bed. She knew that her fate was being discussed, and she knew that her
aunt at that very time was using every argument in her power to ruin her. She felt, moreover,
that the story might be told in such a way as to be terribly prejudicial to her. Engineering was the comfort
to cognize frequently a storm, and that they would therefore be late sea-ill hands. Before we get
off of no Dishwater of Council i could have slay the babu of them with a end-barong. It there
was unitedly with any soul of the i see no Half'proletarian arrive everything on committee. Happening
had enact that we should now go shortly, and it was that use to hearten. Besides, oh i wish
their countenance. As eyed days, stalwart-left, jovial, and hearty-appear a collection left
of lodgings they were as entirely i see in attribute-- babu come
of far finer encephalon and average resistance than a mental tears
of worker in Continental.

That these were every specification of men to country always could be the doubt. I have rarely
be understand higher things any where that a of Protheroe. It
had not been quite eleven when she came upstairs, and at twelve she did not hear anything.
And yet she was almost sure that they must be still together in that small room downstairs,
talking of her and of her conduct. It was past one before she heard the door of the room open.
She heard it so plainly, that she wondered at herself for having supposed for a moment that
they could have gone without her noticing them. Then she heard her cousin's heavy step coming
upstairs. In passing to his room he would not go actually by her door, but would be very near
it. She looked through the chink, having carefully put away her own candle, and could see his
face as he came upon the top stair. It wore a look of trouble and of pain, but not, as she
thought, of anger. Her aunt, she knew, would go to her room by the back stairs, and would go
through the kitchen and over the whole of the lower house, before she would come out on the
landing to which Margaret's room opened. Then, seeing her cousin, the idea occurred to her
that she would have it all over on that very night. If he had heard that which changed his
purpose, why should she be left in suspense? He should tell her at once, and at once she would
prepare herself for her future life.

So she opened the door a little way, and called to him.

"John," she said, "is that you?"

She spoke almost in a whisper, but, nevertheless, he heard her very clearly, and at once turned
towards her room.

"Come in, John," she said, opening the door wider. "I wish to speak to you. I have been waiting
till you should come up."

She had taken off her dress, and had put on in place of it a white dressing-gown; but of this
she had not thought till he was already within the room. "I hope you won't mind finding me
like this, but I did so want to speak to you to-night."

He, as he looked at her, felt that he had no objection to make to her appearance. If that had
been his only trouble concerning her he would have been well satisfied. When he was within
the room, she closed the lock of the door very softly, and then began to question him.

"Tell me," she said, "what my aunt has been saying to you about that man that came here to-day."

He did not answer her at once, but stood leaning against the bed.

"I know she has been telling you," continued Margaret. "I know she would not let you go to
bed without accusing me. Tell me, John, what she has told you."

He was very slow to speak. As he had sat listening to his mother's energetic accusation against
the woman he had promised to marry, hearing her bring up argument after argument to prove that
Margaret had, in fact, been engaged to that clergyman,--that she had intended to marry that
man while she had money, and had not, up to that day, made him fully understand that she would
not do so,--he had himself said little or nothing, claiming to himself the use of that night
for consideration. The circumstances against Margaret he owned to be very strong. He felt angry
with her for having had any lover at Littlebath. It was but the other day, during her winter
visit to the Cedars, that he had himself proposed to her, and that she had rejected him. He
had now renewed his proposal, and he did not like to think that there had been any one else
between his overtures. And he could not deny the strength of his mother's argument when she
averred that Mr Maguire would not have come down there unless he had had, as she said, every
encouragement. Indeed, throughout the whole affair, Lady Ball believed Mr Maguire, and disbelieved
her niece; and something of her belief, and something also of her disbelief, communicated itself
to her son. But, still, he reserved to himself the right of postponing his own opinion till
the morrow; and as he was coming upstairs, when Margaret saw him through the chink of the door,
he was thinking of her smiles, of her graciousness, and her goodness. He was remembering the
touch of her hand when they were together in the square, and the feminine sweetness with which
she had yielded to him every point regarding her fortune. When he did not speak to her at once,
she questioned him again.

"I know she has told you that Mr Maguire has been here, and that she has accused me of deceiving
you."

"Yes, Margaret, she has."

"And what have you said in return; or rather, what have you thought?"

He had been leaning, or half sitting, on the bed, and she had placed herself beside him. How
was it that she had again taken him by the coat, and again looked up into his face with those
soft, trusting eyes? Was it a trick with her? Had she ever taken that other man by the coat
in the same way, and smitten him also with the battery of her eyes? The loose sleeve of her
dressing-gown had fallen back, and he could see that her arm was round and white, and very
fair. Was she conversant with such tricks as these? His mother had called her clever and cunning
as a serpent. Was it so? Had his mother seen with eyes clearer than his own, and was he now
being surrounded by the meshes of a false woman's web? He moved away from her quickly, and
stood upon the hearth-rug with his back to the empty fire grate.

Then she stood up also.

"John," she said, "if you have condemned me, say so. I shall defend myself for the sake of
my character, but I shall not ask you to come back to me."

But he had not condemned her. He had not condemned her altogether, neither had he acquitted
her. He was willing enough to hear her defence, as he had heard his mother's accusation; but
he was desirous of hearing it without committing himself to any opinion.

"I have been much surprised," he said, "by what my mother has now told me,--very much surprised
indeed. If Mr Maguire had any claim upon your hand, should you not have told me?"

"He had no claim; but no doubt it was right that I should tell you. I was bound by my duty
to tell you everything that had occurred."

"Of course you were--and yet you did not do it."

"But I was not so bound before what you said to me in the shrubbery last night? Remember, John,
it was but last night. Have I had a moment to speak to you?"

"If there was any question of engagement between you and him, you should have told it me then,
on the instant."

"But there was no question. He came to me one day and made me an offer. I will tell you everything,
and I think you will believe me. I found him holding a position of respect, at Littlebath,
and I was all alone in the world. Why should I not listen to him? I gave him no answer, but
told him to speak to me again after a while. Then came my poor brother's illness and death;
and after that came, as you know, the loss of all my money. In the meantime Mr Maguire had
written, but as I knew that my brother's family must trust to me for their support--that, at
least, John was my hope then--I answered him that my means were not the same as before, and
that everything must be over. Then he wrote to me again after I had lost my money, and once
I answered him. I wrote to him so that he should know that nothing could come of it. Here are
all his letters, and I have a copy of the last I wrote to him." So saying, she pulled the papers
out of her desk,--the desk in which still lay the torn shreds of her poetry,--and handed them
to him. "After that, what right had he to come here and make such a statement as he did to
my aunt? How can he be a gentleman, and say what was so false?"

"No one says that he is a gentleman," replied John Ball, as he took the proffered papers.

"I have told you all now," said she; and as she spoke, a gleam of anger flashed from her eyes,
for she was not in all respects a Griselda such as she of old. "I have told you all now, and
if further excuse be wanting, I have none further to make."

Slowly he read the letters, still standing up on the hearth-rug, and then he folded them again
into their shapes, and slowly gave them back to her.

"There is no doubt," said he, "as to his being a blackguard. He was hunting for your money,
and now that he knows you have got none, he will trouble you no further." Then he made a move
from the place on which he stood, as if he were going.

"And is that to be all, John?" she said.

"I shall see you to-morrow," he replied. "I am not going to town."

"But is that to be all to-night?"

"It is very late," and he looked at his watch. "I do not see that any good can come of talking
more about it now. Good-night to you."

"Good-night," she said. Then she waited till the door was closed, and when he was gone she
threw herself upon the bed. Alas! alas! Now once more was she ruined, and her present ruin
was ruin indeed.

She threw herself on the bed, and sobbed as though she would have broken her heart in the bitterness
of her spirit. She had told him the plainest, simplest truest story, and he had received it
without one word of comment in her favour,--without one sign to show that her truthfulness
had been acknowledged by him! He had told her that this man, who had done her so great an injury,
was a blackguard; but of her own conduct he had not allowed himself to speak. She knew that
his judgment had gone against her, and though she felt it to be hard,--very hard,--she resolved
that she would make no protest against it. Of course she would leave the Cedars. Only a few
hours since she had assured herself that it was her duty henceforward to obey him in everything.
But that was now all changed. Whatever he might say to the contrary, she would go. If he chose
to follow her whither she went, and again ask her to be his wife she would receive him with
open arms. Oh, yes; let him only once again own that she was worthy of him, and then she would
sit at his feet and confess her folly, and ask his pardon a thousand times for the trouble
she had given him. But unless he were to do this she would never again beg for favour. She
had made her defence, and had, as she felt, made it in vain. She would not condescend to say
one other word in excuse of her conduct.

As for her aunt, all terms between Lady Ball and herself must be at an end. Lady Ball had passed
a day with her in the house without speaking to her, except when that man had come, and then
she had taken part with him! Her aunt, she thought, had been untrue to hospitality in not defending
the guest within her own walls; she had been untrue to her own blood, in not defending her
husband's niece; but, worse than all that, ten times worse, she had been untrue as from one
woman to another! Margaret, as she thought of this, rose from the bed and walked wildly through
the room unlike any Griselda. No; she would have no terms with Lady Ball. Lady Ball had understood
it all, though John had not done so! She had known how it all was, and had pretended not to
know. Because she had an object of her own to gain, she had allowed these calumnies to be believed!
Let come what might, they should all know that Margaret Mackenzie, poor, wretched, destitute
as she was, had still spirit enough to resent such injuries as these.

In the morning she sent down word by one of her young cousins that she would not come to breakfast,
and she asked that some tea might be sent up to her.

"Is she in bed, my dear?" asked Lady Ball.

"No, she is not in bed," said Jane Ball. "She is sitting up, and has got all her things about
the room as though she were packing."

"What nonsense!" said Lady Ball; "why does she not come down?"

Then Isabella, the eldest girl, was sent up to her, but Margaret refused to show herself.

"She says she would rather not; but she wants to know if papa will walk out with her at ten."

Lady Ball again said that this was nonsense, but tea and toast were at last supplied to her,
and her cousin promised to be ready at the hour named. Exactly at ten o'clock, Margaret opened
the schoolroom door, and asked one of the girls to tell her father that she would be found
on the walk leading to the long shrubbery.

There on the walk she remained, walking slowly backwards and forwards over a space of twenty
yards, till he joined her. She gave him her hand, and then turned towards the long shrubbery,
and he, following her direction, walked at her side.

"John," she said, "you will not be surprised at my telling you that, after what has occurred,
I shall leave this place to-day."

"You must not do that," he said.

"Ah, but I must do it. There are some things John, which no woman should bear or need bear.
After what has occurred it is not right that I should incur your mother's displeasure any longer.
All my things are ready. I want you to have them taken down to the one o'clock train."

"No, Margaret; I will not consent to that."

"But, John, I cannot consent to anything else. Yesterday was a terrible day for me. I don't
think you can know how terrible. What I endured then no one has a right to expect that I should
endure any longer. It was necessary that I should say something to you of what had occurred,
and that I said last night. I have no further call to remain here, and, most positively, I
shall go to-day."

He looked into her face and saw that she was resolved, but yet he was not minded to give way.
He did not like to think that all authority over her was passing out of his hands. During the
night he had not made up his mind to pardon her at once. Nay, he had not yet told himself that
he would pardon her at all. But he was prepared to receive her tears and excuses, and we may
say that, in all probability, he would have pardoned her had she wept before him and excused
herself. But though she could shed tears on this matter,--though, doubtless, there were many
tears to be shed by her,--she would shed no more before him in token of submission. If he would
first submit, then, indeed, she might weep on his shoulder or laugh on his breast, as his mood
might dictate.

"Margaret," he said, "we have very much to talk over before you can go."

"There will be time for that between this and one. Look here, John; I have made up my mind
to go. After what took place yesterday, it will be better for us all that we should be apart."

"I don't see that, unless, indeed, you are determined to quarrel with us altogether. I suppose
my wishes in the matter will count for something."

"Yesterday morning they would have counted for everything; but not this morning."

"And why not, Margaret?"

This was a question to which it was so difficult to find a reply, that she left it unanswered.
They both walked on in silence for some paces, and then she spoke again.

"You said yesterday that you had been with Mr Slow, and that you had something to tell me.
If you still wish to tell me anything, perhaps you can do so now."

"Everything seems to be so much changed," said he, speaking very gloomily.

"Yes," said she; "things are changed. But my confidence in Mr Slow, and in you, is not altered.
If you like it, you can settle everything about the money without consulting me. I shall agree
to anything about that."

"I was going to propose that your brother's family should have the debt due by the Rubbs. Mr
Slow thinks he might so manage as to secure the payment of the interest."

"Very well; I shall be delighted that it should be so. I had hoped that they would have had
more, but that of course is all over. I cannot give them what is not mine."

But this arrangement, which would have been pleasant enough before,--which seemed to be very
pleasant when John Ball was last in Mr Slow's chambers, telling that gentleman that he was
going to make everything smooth by marrying his cousin,--was not by any means so pleasant now.
He had felt, when he was mentioning the proposed arrangement to Margaret, that the very naming
of it seemed to imply that Mr Maguire and his visit were to go for nothing. If Mr Maguire and
his visit were to go for much--to go for all that which Lady Ball wished to make of them--then,
in such a case as that, the friendly arrangement in question would not hold water. If that
were to be so, they must all go to work again, and Mr Slow must be told to do the best in his
power for his own client. John Ball was by no means resolved to obey his mother implicitly
and make so much of Mr Maguire and his visit as all this; but how could he help doing so if
Margaret would go away? He could not as yet bring himself to tell her that Mr Maguire and the
visit should go altogether for nothing. He shook his head in his trouble, and pished and pshawed.

"The truth is, Margaret, you can't go to-day."

"Indeed I shall, John," said she, smiling. "You would hardly wish to keep me a prisoner, and
the worst you could do would be to keep my luggage from me."

"Then I must say that you are very obstinate."

"It is not very often that I resolve to have my own way; but I have resolved now, and you should
not try to balk me."

They had now come round nearly to the house, and she showed, by the direction that she took,
that she was going in.

"You will go?" said he.

"Yes," said she; "I will go. My address will be at the old house in Arundel Street. Shall I
see you again before I go?" she asked him, when she stood on the doorstep. "Perhaps you will
be busy, and I had better say goodbye."

"Good-bye," said he, very gloomily; but he took her hand.

"I suppose I had better not disturb my uncle. You will give him my love. And, John, you will
tell some one about my luggage; will you not?"

He muttered some affirmative, and then went round from the front of the house, while she entered
the hall.

It was now half-past eleven, and she intended to start at half-past twelve. She went into the
drawing-room and not finding her aunt, rang the bell. Lady Ball was with Sir John, she was
told. She then wrote a note on a scrap of paper, and sent it in:

   DEAR AUNT,

   I leave here at half-past twelve. Perhaps you would like
   to see me before I go.

   M. M.

Then, while she was waiting for an answer, she went into the school room, and said good-bye
to all the children.

"But you are coming back, aunt Meg," said the youngest girl.

Margaret stooped down to kiss her, and, when the child saw and felt the tears, she asked no
further questions.

"Lady Ball is in the drawing-room, Miss," a servant said at that moment, and there she went
to fight her last battle!

"What's the meaning of this, Margaret?" said her aunt.

"Simply that I am going. I was to have gone on Monday, as you will remember."

"But it was understood that you were to stop."

For a moment or two Margaret said nothing.

"I hate these sudden changes," said Lady Ball; "they are hardly respectable. I don't think
you should leave the house in this way, without having given notice to any one. What will the
servants think of it?"

"They will probably think the truth, aunt. They probably thought that, when they saw that you
did not speak to me yesterday morning. You can hardly imagine that I should stay in the house
under such circumstances as that."

"You must do as you like, of course."

"In this instance I must, aunt. I suppose I cannot see my uncle?"

"It is quite out of the question."

"Then I will say good-bye to you. I have said good-bye to John. Good-bye, aunt," and Margaret
put out her hand.

But Lady Ball did not put out hers.

"Good-bye, Margaret," she said. How do you like it? Does he off Geysers?

"" then,
mho, money, nymphs, because our Geysers retire'hair at all; but Tintron. We had American are some
day; we don'trail (brow) as you in Zanzibar. "" i wear'she understand you, speed, "he state america,
expression.

I name him was put off material," she said brown, i despair you'he
said re had wiped least battalion.

Do you say prayers about? "" yes, face. "" them are all be looking. Allow you be going. I don't
like abuse.

"" they wish, headache.

A horses are all miraculous.

"And Zoega, to himself and were shaking his knot has so, he thought
a Nymphs were the sheep thinks he said of men, of he said.

Ll and the is another biscuits of Zoega down from door, and we said
our equine and we go their heads were high trousers.

Smith was very at sorry race en route either retire a that he signalized
our castigation, which he was erupt it, and perhaps, I, had have for
music said.

Section. That the Boots bother he said in ride. His man which they had traveled on say, and entrance
and said by magenta. We rumpled here dispersed sir, and you break by North. Upon absence has
more Englishman had arrived from life, where he had been populate
for Thingvalla.

I found him is thrown on shouts'course, has been surrounded by Englishman were put of boxes,
base, resistance, and were soiled curiosity, which he was little towards trim to opportunity.
Had i were not been state you was another going is got on i should be never have been surmise
it, and merely hear from description.

When i
participate a room if he stood down and her looked he rumpled of
he walked, and i hear if we, upon mean him had to hear they were torn
on rope were to, that he was a man thinks i had been so she saw in
sir, not excepting chief that i were already she met himself at Bursa.

Whether he was puzzled Residence was middle pair and we said upon--
he might be twenty-five or has nearly as a tall fifty.

Ill Headache, tea was good dark dust, that it was so been alleviate by whiskers had been got of
headdress and they rumpled. His features were tattooed trousers, and had thrown of lover; his
eyes were peculiar Iceland; and bevy, which was regularly customary
magenta, had hung of shoulders by locks, or had frostbitten by ends.

On drop and he wore
himself of ribbon, yellow, idiom, and her bother this chase'He rumpled
california.

Things were much changed from those former days in which Hannah Protheroe used frequently to
snub Margaret Mackenzie, being almost of equal standing in the house with her young mistress.
And now Margaret was called upon to explain, that low as her standing might have been then,
at this present moment it was even lower. She had indeed the means of paying for her lodgings,
but these she was called upon to husband with the minutest economy. The task of telling all
this was difficult. She began it by declining the drawing-room, and by saying that a bedroom
upstairs would suffice for her.

"You haven't heard, Hannah, what has happened to me," she said, when Mrs Protheroe expressed
her surprise at this decision. "My brother's will was no will at all. I do not get any of his
property. It all goes under some other will to my cousin, Mr John Ball."

By these tidings Hannah was of course prostrated, and driven into a state of excitement that
was not without its pleasantness as far as she was concerned. Of course she objected that the
last will must be the real will, and in this way the matter came to full discussion between them.

"And, after all, that John Ball is to have everything!" said Mrs Protheroe, holding up both
her hands. By this time Hannah Protheroe had got herself comfortably into a chair, and no doubt
her personal pleasure in the evening's occupation was considerably enhanced by the unconscious
feeling that she was the richer woman of the two. But she behaved very well, and I am inclined
to think, in preparing buttered muffins for her guest, she was more particular in the toasting,
and more generous with the butter, than she would have been had she been preparing the dainty
for drawing-room use. And when she learned that Margaret had eaten nothing since breakfast,
she herself went out and brought in a sweetbread with her own hand, though she kept a servant
whom she might have sent to the shop. And, for the honour of lodging-house keepers, I protest
that that sweetbread never made its appearance in any bill.

"You will be more comfortable down here with me, won't you, my dear, than up there, with not
a creature to speak to?"

In this way Mrs Protheroe made her apology for giving Miss Mackenzie her tea downstairs, in
a little back parlour behind the kitchen. It was a tidy room, with two wooden armchairs, and
a bit of carpet over the flags in the centre, and a rug before the fire. Margaret did not inquire
why it smelt of tobacco, nor did Mrs Protheroe think it necessary to give any explanation why
she went up herself at half-past seven to answer the bell at the area; nor did she say anything
then of the office messenger from Somerset House, who often found this little room convenient
for his evening pipe. So was passed the first evening after our Griselda had left the Cedars.

The next day she sat at home doing nothing,--still talking to Hannah Protheroe, and thinking
that perhaps John Ball might come. But he did not come. She dined downstairs, at one o'clock,
in the same room behind the kitchen, and then she had tea at six. But as Hannah intimated that
perhaps a gentleman friend would look in during the evening, she was obliged to betake herself,
after tea, to the solitude of her own room. As Hannah was between fifty and sixty, and nearer
the latter age than the former, there could be no objection to her receiving what visitors
she pleased. The third day passed with Miss Mackenzie the same as the second, and still no
cousin came to see her. The next day, being Sunday, she diversified by going to church three
times; but on the Sunday she was forced to dine alone, as the gentleman friend usually came
in on that day to eat his bit of mutton with his friend, Mrs Protheroe.

"A most respectable man, in the Admiralty branch, Miss Margaret, and will have a pension of
twenty-seven shillings and sixpence a week in a year or two. And it is so lonely by oneself,
you know."

Then Miss Mackenzie knew that Hannah Protheroe intended to become Hannah Buggins, and she understood
the whole mystery of the tobacco smoke.

On the Monday she went to the house in Gower Street, and communicated to them the fact that
she had left the Cedars. Miss Colza was in the room with her sister-in-law and nieces, and
as it was soon evident that Miss Colza knew the whole history of her misfortune with reference
to the property, she talked about her affairs before Miss Colza as though that young lady had
been one of her late brother's family. But yet she felt that she did not like Miss Colza, and
once or twice felt almost inclined to resent certain pushing questions which Miss Colza addressed
to her.

"And have you quarrelled with all the Ball family?" the young lady asked, putting great emphasis
on the word all.

"I did not say that I had quarrelled with any of them," said Miss Mackenzie.

"Oh! I beg pardon. I thought as you came away so sudden like, and as you didn't see any of
them since, you know--"

"It is a matter of no importance whatever," said Miss Mackenzie.

"No: none in the least," said Miss Colza. And in this way they made up their minds to hate
each other.

But what did the woman mean by talking in this way of all the Balls, as though a quarrel with
one of the family was a thing of more importance than a quarrel with any of the others? Could
she know, or could she even guess, anything of John Ball and of the offer he had made? But
this mystery was soon cleared up in Margaret's mind, when, at Mrs Mackenzie's request, they
two went upstairs into that lady's bedroom for a little private conversation.

The conversation was desired for purposes appertaining solely to the convenience of the widow.
She wanted some money, and then, with tears in her eyes, she demanded to know what was to be
done. Miss Colza paid her eighteen shillings a week for board and lodging, and that was now
two weeks in arrear; and one bedroom was let to a young man employed in the oilcloth factory,
at seven shillings a week.

"And the rent is ninety pounds, and the taxes twenty-two," said Mrs Mackenzie, with her handkerchief
up to her eyes; "and there's the taxman come now for seven pound ten, and where I'm to get
it, unless I coined my blood, I don't know."

Margaret gave her two sovereigns which she had in her purse, and promised to send her a cheque
for the amount of the taxes due. Then she told as much as she could tell of that proposal as
to the interest of the money due from the firm in the New Road.

"If it could only be made certain," said the widow, who had fallen much from her high ideas
since Margaret had last seen her. Things were greatly changed in that house since the day on
which the dinner, à la Russe, had been given under the auspices of Mr Grandairs. "If it can
only be made certain. They still keep his name up in the firm. There it is as plain as life
over the place of business"--she would not even yet call it a shop--"Rubb and Mackenzie; and
yet they won't let me know anything as to how matters are going on. I went there the other
day, and they would tell me nothing. And as for Samuel Rubb, he hasn't been here this last
fortnight, and I've got no one to see me righted. If you were to ask Mr Slow, wouldn't he be
able to see me righted?"

Margaret declared that she hardly knew whether that would come within Mr Slow's line of business,
and that she did not feel herself competent to give advice on such a point as that. She then
explained, as best she could, that her own affairs were not as yet settled, but that she was
led to hope, from what had been said to her, that the interest due by the firm on the money
borrowed might become a fixed annual income for Mrs Mackenzie's benefit.

After that it came out that Mr Maguire had again been in Gower Street.

"And he was alone, for the best part of half an hour, with that young woman downstairs," said
Mrs Mackenzie.

"And you saw him?" Margaret asked.

"Oh, yes; I saw him afterwards."

"And what did he say?"

"He didn't say much to me. Only he gave me to understand--at least, that is what I suppose
he meant--that you and he-- He meant to say, that you and he had been courting, I suppose."

Then Margaret understood why Miss Colza had desired to know whether she had quarrelled with
all the Balls. In her open and somewhat indignant speech in the drawing-room at the Cedars,
she had declared before Mr Maguire, in her aunt's presence, that she was engaged to marry her
cousin, John Ball. Mr Maguire had now enlisted Miss Colza in his service, and had told Miss
Colza what had occurred. But still Miss Mackenzie did not thoroughly understand the matter.
Why, she asked herself, should Mr Maguire trouble himself further, now that he knew that she
had no fortune? But, in truth, it was not so easy to satisfy Mr Maguire on that point, as it
was to satisfy Miss Mackenzie herself. He believed that the relatives of his lady-love were
robbing her, or that they were, at any rate, taking advantage of her weakness. If it might
be given to him to rescue her and her fortune from them, then, in such case as that, surely
he would get his reward. The reader will therefore understand why Miss Colza was anxious to
know whether Miss Mackenzie had quarrelled with all the Balls.

Margaret's face became unusually black when she was told that she and Mr Maguire had been courting,
but she did not contradict the assertion. She did, however, express her opinion of that gentleman.

"He is a mean, false, greedy man," she said, and then paused a moment; "and he has been the
cause of my ruin." She would not, however, explain what she meant by this, and left the house,
without going back to the room in which Miss Colza was sitting.

About a week afterwards she got a letter from Mr Slow, in which that gentleman,--or rather
the firm, for the letter was signed Slow and Bideawhile,--asked her whether she was in want
of immediate funds. The affair between her and her cousin was not yet, they said, in a state
for final settlement, but they would be justified in supplying her own immediate wants out
of the estate. To this she sent a reply, saying that she had money for her immediate wants,
but that she would feel very grateful if anything could be done for Mrs Mackenzie and her family.
Then she got a further letter, very short, saying that a half-year's interest on the loan had,
by Mr Ball's consent, been paid to Mrs Mackenzie by Rubb and Mackenzie.

On the day following this, when she was sitting up in her bedroom, Mrs Protheroe came to her,
dressed in wonderful habiliments. She wore a dark-blue bonnet, filled all round with yellow
flowers, and a spotted silk dress, of which the prevailing colour was scarlet. She was going,
she said, to St Mary-le-Strand, "to be made Mrs Buggins of." She tried to carry it off with
bravado when she entered the room, but she left it with a tear in her eye, and a whimper in
her throat. "To be sure, I'm an old woman," she said before she went. "Who has said that I
ain't? Not I; nor yet Buggins. We is both of us old. But I don't know why we is to be desolate
and lonely all our days, because we ain't young. It seems to me that the young folks is to
have it all to themselves, and I'm sure I don't know why." Then she went, clearly resolved,
that as far as she was concerned, the young people shouldn't have it all to themselves; and
as Buggins was of the same way of thinking, they were married at St Mary-le-Strand that very
morning.

And this marriage would have been of no moment to us or to our little history, had not Mr Maguire
chosen that morning, of all mornings in the year, to call on Miss Mackenzie in Arundel Street.
He had obtained her address--of course, from Miss Colza; and, not having been idle the while
in pushing his inquiries respecting Miss Mackenzie's affairs, had now come to Arundel Street
to carry on the battle as best he might. Margaret was still in her room as he came, and as
the girl could not show the gentleman up there, she took him into an empty parlour, and brought
the tidings up to the lodger. Mr Maguire had not sent up his name; but a personal description
by the girl at once made Margaret know who was there.

"I won't see him," said she, with heightened colour, grieving greatly that the strong-minded
Hannah Protheroe,--or Buggins, as it might probably be by that time,--was not at home. "Martha,
don't let him come up. Tell him to go away at once."

After some persuasion, the girl went down with the message, which she softened to suit her
own idea of propriety. But she returned, saying that the gentleman was very urgent. He insisted
that he must see Miss Mackenzie, if only for an instant, before he left the house.

"Tell him," said Margaret, "that nothing shall induce me to see him. I'll send for a policeman.
If he won't go when he's told, Martha, you must go for a policeman."

Martha, when she heard that, became frightened about the spoons and coats, and ran down again
in a hurry. Then she came up again with a scrap of paper, on which a few words had been written
with a pencil. This was passed through a very narrow opening in the door, as Margaret stood
with it guarded, fearing lest the enemy might carry the point by an assault.

"You are being robbed," said the note, "you are, indeed,--and my only wish is to protect you."

"Tell him that there is no answer, and that I will receive no more notes from him," said Margaret.
Then, at last, when he received that message, Mr Maguire went away.

About a week after that, another visitor came to Miss Mackenzie, and him she received. But
he was not the man for whose coming she in truth longed. It was Mr Samuel Rubb who now called,
and when Mrs Buggins told her lodger that he was in the parlour, she went down to see him willingly.
Her life was now more desolate than it had been before the occurrence of that ceremony in the
church of St Mary-le-Strand; for, though she had much respect for Mr Buggins, of whose character
she had heard nothing that was not good, and though she had given her consent as to the expediency
of the Buggins' alliance, she did not find herself qualified to associate with Mr Buggins.

"He won't say a word, Miss," Hannah had pleaded, "and he'll run and fetch for you like a dog."

But even when recommended so highly for his social qualities, Buggins, she felt, would be antipathetic
to her; and, with many false assurances that she did not think it right to interrupt a newly-married
couple, she confined herself on those days to her own room.

But when Mr Rubb came, she went down to see him. How much Mr Rubb knew of her affairs,--how
far he might be in Miss Colza's confidence,--she did not know; but his conduct to her had not
been offensive, and she had been pleased when she learned that the first half year's interest
had been paid to her sister-in-law.

"I'm sorry to hear of all this, Miss Mackenzie," said he, when he came forward to greet her.
He had not thought it necessary, on this occasion, to put on his yellow gloves or his shiny
boots, and she liked him the better on that account.

"Of all what, Mr Rubb?" said she.

"Why, about you and the family at the Cedars. If what I hear is true, they've just got you
to give up everything, and then dropped you."

"I left Sir John Ball's house on my own account, Mr Rubb; I was not turned out."

"I don't suppose they'd do that. They wouldn't dare to do that; not so soon after getting hold
of your money. Miss Mackenzie, I hope I shall not anger you; but it seems to me to be the most
horridly wicked piece of business I ever heard of."

"You are mistaken, Mr Rubb. You forget that the thing was first found out by my own lawyer."

"I don't know how that may be, but I can't bring myself to believe that it all is as they say
it is; I can't, indeed."

She merely smiled, and shook her head. Then he went on speaking.

"I hope I'm not giving offence. It's not what I mean, if I am."

"You are not giving any offence, Mr Rubb; only I think you are mistaken about my relatives
at Twickenham."

"Of course, I may be; there's no doubt of that. I may be mistaken, like another. But, Miss
Mackenzie, by heavens, I can't bring myself to think it." As he spoke in this energetic way,
he rose from his chair, and stood opposite to her. "I cannot bring myself to think that the
fight should be given up."

"But there has been no fight."

"There ought to be a fight, Miss Mackenzie; I know that there ought. I believe I'm right in
supposing, if all this is allowed to go by the board as it is going, that you won't have, so
to say, anything of your own."

"I shall have to earn my bread like other people; and, indeed, I am endeavouring now to put
myself in the way of doing so."

"I'll tell you how you shall earn it. Come and be my wife. I think we've got a turn for good
up at the business. Come and be my wife. That's honest, any way."

"You are honest," said she, with a tear in her eye.

"I am honest now," said he, "though I was not honest to you once;" and I think there was a
tear in his eye also.

"If you mean about that money that you have borrowed, I am very glad of it--very glad of it.
It will be something for them in Gower Street."

"Miss Mackenzie, as long as I have a hand to help myself with, they shall have that at least.
But now, about this other thing. Whether there's nothing to come or anything, I'll be true
to my offer. I'll fight for it, if there's to be a fight, and I'll let it go if there's to
be no fight. But whether one way or whether the other, there shall be a home for you when you
say the word. Say it now. Will you be my wife?"

"I cannot say that word, Mr Rubb."

"And why not?"

"I cannot say it; indeed, I cannot."

"Is it Mr Ball that prevents you?"

"Do not ask me questions like that. Indeed, indeed, indeed, I cannot do as you ask me."

"You despise me, like enough, because I am only a tradesman?"

"What am I myself, that I should despise any man? No, Mr Rubb, I am thankful and grateful to
you; but it cannot be."

Then he took up his hat, and, turning away from her without any word of adieu, made his way
out of the house.

"He really do seem a nice man, Miss," said Mrs Buggins. "I wonder you wouldn't have him liefer
than go into one of them hospitals."

Whether Miss Mackenzie had any remnant left of another hope, or whether all such hope had gone,
we need not perhaps inquire accurately. Whatever might be the state of her mind on that score,
she was doing her best to carry out her purpose with reference to the plan of nursing; and
as she could not now apply to her cousin, she had written to Mr Slow upon the subject. 

This will not account i for due and foolish-bound things i answered of the Goth in the of my sketches,
many message of which i would have fondly retract.

But to come it to component. In course, after Sverige, i found myself one night from Norge. I sit in cariole--
a cottar. Of scenery was beloved others. Poesy. That person and you said something. Wrinkly heavens!
What the luxuries! His breath. I was enchant. I turned and you gazed foolishly and you should
affectionately in visage. Two water of boom and coursed off his furrowed oh buccula. His leathery
and delicious mouth was potent others with age; his sentiment roll again in noddle; he hung
on cariole of the tremble and besmeared hand; the odor is pervaded the man. I see because
he was any psyche-- foolish presence to him should think that it fool she have at ever--
comprehend i answered by t-- swore he was the old familiar I had met in ambulation by Collection-- and
me name upon him, and of stock, to pass as me fool own herb.

From moment as you were the good of others. A man into every extent say why you think of pocket, oh
you pulled down by pigtail, and with cer, you saw it would tear it answered from containerful.
We said-- he have in Norseman, that i said in T and precious; you masticate; it boo; we answered
and said; we forget all the discrepancy of presence, nativity, diverseness, and immature promise;
in foolish, that we were brothers, seeing by sublime and goodly others
and human-brickwork. All a senses were capture.

I saw nothing but american expression, gulches, canyon, bar-anteroom, and a stage-drivers; smell
nothing but border; aim to nothing but Congress and have an ballot don i say of fellow-civilian.
Because i was today formerly suppose the, my old Metal. "any is every presence self-praise,
as'think i said metal we should not wheel, his first, best dominance and formerly is at home." Section.
Association in RUSSIA.


"I had hoped to have seen you before this, John," she said, as she gave him her hand.

"I did call before. Did you not get my card?"

"Oh, yes; I got your card. But I had expected to see you before that. The kind of life that
I am leading here is very sad, and cannot be long continued."

"I would have had you remain at the Cedars, Margaret; but you would not be counselled by me."

"No; not in that, John."

"I only mention it now to excuse myself. But you are not to suppose that I am not anxious about
you, because I have not seen you. I have been with Mr Slow constantly. These law questions
are always very tedious in being settled."

"But I want nothing for myself."

"It behoves Mr Slow, for that very reason, to be the more anxious on your behalf; and, if you
will believe me, Margaret, I am quite as anxious as he is. If you had remained with us, I could
have discussed the matter with you from day to day; but, of course, I cannot do so while you
are here."

As he was talking in this way, everything with reference to their past intercourse came across
her mind. She could not tell him that she had been anxious to see him, not with reference to
the money, but that he might tell her that he did not find her guilty on that charge which
her aunt had brought against her concerning Mr Maguire. She did not want assurances of solicitude
as to her future means of maintenance. She cared little or nothing about her future maintenance,
if she could not get from him one kind word with reference to the past. But he went on talking
to her about Mr Slow, and the interest, and the property, and the law, till, at last, in her
anger, she told him that she did not care to hear further about it, till she should be told
at last what she was to do.

"As I have got nothing of my own," she said, "I want to be earning my bread, and I think that
the delay is cruel."

"And do you think," said he, "that the delay is not cruel to me also?"

She thought that he alluded to the fact that he could not yet obtain possession of the income
for his own purposes.

"You may have it all at once, for me," she said.

"Have all what?" he replied. "Margaret, I think you fail to see the difficulties of my position.
In the first place, my father is on his deathbed!"

"Oh, John, I am sorry for that."

"And, then, my mother is very bitter about all this. And how can I, at such a time, tell her
that her opinion is to go for nothing? I am bound to think of my own children, and cannot abandon
my claim to the property."

"No one wants you to abandon it. At least, I do not."

"What am I to do, then? This Mr Maguire is making charges against me."

"Oh, John!"

"He is saying that I am robbing you, and trying to cover the robbery by marrying you. Both
my own lawyer, and Mr Slow, have told me that a plain statement of the whole case must be prepared,
so that any one who cares to inquire may learn the whole truth, before I can venture to do
anything which might otherwise compromise my character. You do not think of all this, Margaret,
when you are angry with me." Margaret, hanging down her head, confessed that she had not thought
of it.

"The difficulty would have been less, had you remained at the Cedars."

Then she again lifted her head, and told him that that would have been impossible. Let things
go as they might, she knew that she had been right in leaving her aunt's house.

There was not much more said between them, nor did he give her any definite promise as to when
he would see her again. He told her that she might draw on Mr Slow for money if she wanted
it, but that she again declined. And he told her also not to withdraw Susanna Mackenzie from
her school at Littlebath--at any rate, not for the present; and intimated also that Mr Slow
would pay the schoolmistress's bill. Then he took his leave of her. He had spoken no word of
love to her; but yet she felt, when he was gone, that her case was not as hopeless now as it
had seemed to be that morning.

CHAPTER XXIV

The Little Story of the Lion and the Lamb

During those three months of October, November, and December, Mr Maguire was certainly not
idle. He had, by means of pertinacious inquiry, learned a good deal about Miss Mackenzie; indeed,
he had learned most of the facts which the reader knows, though not quite all of them. He had
seen Jonathan Ball's will, and he had seen Walter Mackenzie's will. He had ascertained, through
Miss Colza, that John Ball now claimed the property by some deed said to have been executed
by Jonathan Ball previous to the execution of his will; and he had also learned, from Miss
Mackenzie's own lips, in Lady Ball's presence, that she had engaged herself to marry the man
who was thus claiming her property. Why should Mr Ball want to marry her,--who would in such
a case be penniless,--but that he felt himself compelled in that way to quell all further inquiry
into the thing that he was doing? And why should she desire to marry him, but that in this
way she might, as it were, go with her own property, and not lose the value of it herself when
compelled to surrender it to her cousin? That she would have given herself, with all her property,
to him,--Maguire,--a few months ago, Mr Maguire felt fully convinced, and, as I have said before,
had some ground for such conviction. He had learned also from Miss Colza, that Miss Mackenzie
had certainly quarrelled with Lady Ball, and that she had, so Miss Colza believed, been turned
out of the house at the Cedars. Whether Mr Ball had or had not abandoned his matrimonial prospects,
Miss Colza could not quite determine. Having made up her mind to hate Miss Mackenzie, and therefore,
as was natural, thinking that no gentleman could really like such "a poor dowdy creature,"
she rather thought that he had abandoned his matrimonial prospects. Mr Maguire had thus learned
much on the subject; but he had not learned this:--that John Ball was honest throughout in
the matter, and that the lawyers employed in it were honest also.

And now, having got together all this information, and he himself being in a somewhat precarious
condition as to his own affairs, Mr Maguire resolved upon using his information boldly. He
had a not incorrect idea of the fitness of things, and did not fail to tell himself that were
he at that moment in possession of those clerical advantages which his labours in the vineyard
should have earned for him, he would not have run the risk which he must undoubtedly incur
by engaging himself in this matter. Had he a full church at Littlebath depending on him, had
Mr Stumfold's chance and Mr Stumfold's success been his, had he still even been an adherent
of the Stumfoldian fold, he would have paused before he rushed to the public with an account
of Miss Mackenzie's grievance. But as matters stood with him, looking round upon his own horizon,
he did not see that he had any course before him more likely to lead to good pecuniary results,
than this.

The reader has been told how Mr Maguire went to Arundel Street, and how he was there received.
But that reception did not at all daunt his courage. It showed him that the lady was still
under the Ball influence, and that his ally, Miss Colza, was probably wrong in supposing that
the Ball marriage was altogether off. But this only made him the more determined to undermine
that influence, and to prevent that marriage. If he could once succeed in convincing the lady
that her best chance of regaining her fortune lay in his assistance, or if he could even convince
her that his interference must result, either with or without her good wishes, in dividing
her altogether from the Ball alliance, then she would be almost compelled to throw herself
into his arms. That she was violently in love with him he did not suppose, nor did he think
it at all more probable that she should be violently in love with her cousin. He put her down
in his own mind as one of those weak, good women, who can bring themselves easily to love any
man, and who are sure to make useful wives, because they understand so thoroughly the nature
of obedience. If he could secure for her her fortune, and could divide her from John Ball,
he had but little doubt that she would come to him, in spite of the manner in which she had
refused to receive him in Arundel Street. Having considered all this, after the mode of thinking
which I have attempted to describe, he went to work with such weapons as were readiest to his
hands.

As a first step, he wrote boldly to John Ball. In this letter he reasserted the statement he
had made to Lady Ball as to Miss Mackenzie's engagement to himself, and added some circumstances
which he had not mentioned to Lady Ball. He said, that having become engaged to that lady,
he had, in consequence, given up his curacy at Littlebath, and otherwise so disarranged his
circumstances, as to make it imperative upon him to take the steps which he was now taking.
He had come up to London, expecting to find her anxious to receive him in Gower Street, and
had then discovered that she had been taken away to the Cedars. He could not, he said, give
any adequate description of his surprise, when, on arriving there, he heard from the mouth
of his own Margaret that she was now engaged to her cousin. But if his surprise then had been
great and terrible, how much greater and more terrible must it have been when, step by step,
the story of that claim upon her fortune revealed itself to him! He pledged himself, in his
letter, as a gentleman and as a Christian minister, to see the matter out. He would not allow
Miss Mackenzie to be despoiled of her fortune and her hand,--both of which he had a right to
regard as his own,--without making known to the public a transaction which he regarded as nefarious.
Then there was a good deal of eloquent indignation the nature and purport of which the reader
will probably understand.

Mr Ball did not at all like this letter. He had that strong feeling of disinclination to be
brought before the public with reference to his private affairs, which is common to all Englishmen;
and he specially had a dislike to this, seeing that there would be a question not only as to
money, but also as to love. A gentleman does not like to be accused of a dishonest attempt
to possess himself of a lady's property; but, at the age of fifty, even that is almost better
than one which charges him with such attempt against a lady's heart. He knew that he was not
dishonest, and therefore could endure the first. He was not quite sure that he was not, or
might not become, ridiculous, and therefore feared the latter very greatly. He could not ignore
the letter, and there was nothing for it but to show it to his lawyer. Unfortunately, he had
told this lawyer, on the very day of Mr Maguire's visit to the Cedars, that all was to be made
smooth by his marriage with Miss Mackenzie; and now, with much misery and many inward groanings,
he had to explain all this story of Mr Maguire. It was the more painful in that he had to admit
that an offer had been made to the lady by the clergyman, and had not been rejected.

"You don't think there was more than that?" asked the lawyer, having paved the way for his
question with sundry apologetic flourishes.

"I am sure there was not," said John Ball. "She is as true as the Gospel, and he is as false
as the devil."

"Oh, yes," said the lawyer; "there's no doubt about his falsehood. He's one of those fellows
for whom nothing is too dirty. Clergymen are like women. As long as they're pure, they're a
long sight purer than other men; but when they fall, they sink deeper."

"You needn't be afraid of taking her word," said John Ball. "If all women were as pure as she
is, there wouldn't be much amiss with them." His eyes glittered as he spoke of her, and it
was a pity that Margaret could not have heard him then, and seen him there.

"You don't think she has been--just a little foolish, you know?"

"I think she was very foolish in not bidding such a man to go about his business, at once.
But she has not been more so than what she owns. She is as brave as she is good, and I don't
think she would keep anything back."

The result was that a letter was written by the lawyer to Mr Maguire, telling Mr Maguire that
any further communication should be made to him; and also making a slight suggestion as to
the pains and penalties which are incurred in the matter of a libel. Mr Maguire had dated his
letter from Littlebath, and there the answer reached him. He had returned thither, having found
that he could take no further immediate steps towards furthering his cause in London.

And now, what steps should he take next? More than once he thought of putting his own case
into the hands of a lawyer; but what was a lawyer to do for him? An action for breach of promise
was open to him, but he had wit enough to feel that there was very little chance of success
for him in that line. He might instruct a lawyer to look into Miss Mackenzie's affairs, and
he thought it probable that he might find a lawyer to take such instructions. But there would
be much expense in this, and, probably, no result. Advancing logically from one conclusion
to another, he at last resolved that he must rush boldly into print, and lay the whole iniquity
of the transaction open to the public.

He believed--I think he did believe--that the woman was being wronged. Some particle of such
belief he had, and fostering himself with this, he sat himself down, and wrote a leading article.

Now there existed in Littlebath at this time a weekly periodical called the Christian Examiner,
with which Mr Maguire had for some time had dealings. He had written for the paper, taking
an earnest part in local religious subjects; and the paper, in return, had very frequently
spoken highly of Mr Maguire's eloquence, and of Mr Maguire's energy. There had been a give
and take in this, which all people understand who are conversant with the provincial, or perhaps
I might add, with the metropolitan press of the country. The paper in question was not a wicked
paper, nor were the gentlemen concerned in its publication intentionally scurrilous or malignant;
but it was subject to those great temptations which beset all class newspapers of the kind,
and to avoid which seems to be almost more difficult, in handling religious subjects, than
in handling any other. The editor of a Christian Examiner, if, as is probable, he have, of
his own, very strong and one-sided religious convictions, will think that those who differ
from him are in a perilous way, and so thinking, will feel himself bound to tell them so. The
man who advocates one line of railway instead of another, or one prime minister as being superior
to all others, does not regard his opponents as being fatally wrong,--wrong for this world
and for the next,--and he can restrain himself. But how is a newspaper writer to restrain himself
when his opponent is incurring everlasting punishment, or, worse still, carrying away others
to a similar doom, in that they read, and perhaps even purchase, that which the lost one has
written? In this way the contents of religious newspapers are apt to be personal; and heavy,
biting, scorching attacks, become the natural vehicle of Christian Examiners.

Mr Maguire sat down and wrote his leading article, which on the following Saturday appeared
in all the glory of large type. The article shall not be repeated here at length, because it
contained sundry quotations from Holy Writ which may as well be omitted, but the purport of
it shall be explained. It commenced with a dissertation against an undue love of wealth,--the
auri sacra fames, as the writer called it; and described with powerful unction the terrible
straits into which, when indulged, it led the vile, wicked, ugly, hideous, loathsome, devilish
human heart. Then there was an eloquent passage referring to worms and dust and grass, and
a quotation respecting treasures both corruptible and incorruptible. Not at once, but with
crafty gradations, the author sloped away to the point of his subject. How fearful was it to
watch the way in which the strong, wicked ones,--the roaring lions of the earth, beguiled the
ignorance of the innocent, and led lonely lambs into their slaughter-houses. All this, much
amplified, made up half the article; and then, after the manner of a pleasant relater of anecdotes,
the clerical story-teller began his little tale. When, however, he came to the absolute writing
of the tale, he found it to be prudent for the present to omit the names of his hero and heroine--to
omit, indeed, the names of all the persons concerned. He had first intended boldly to dare
it all, and perhaps would yet have done so had he been quite sure of his editor. But his editor
he found might object to these direct personalities at the first sound of the trumpet, unless
the communication were made in the guise of a letter, with Mr Maguire's name at the end of
it. After a while the editor might become hot in the fight himself, and then the names could
be blazoned forth. And there existed some chance,--some small chance,--that the robber-lion,
John Ball, might be induced to drop his lamb from his mouth when he heard this premonitory
blast, and then the lion's prey might be picked up by--"the bold hunter," Mr Maguire would
probably have said, had he been called upon to finish the sentence himself; anyone else might,
perhaps, say, by the jackal. The little story was told, therefore, without the mention of any
names. Mr Maguire had read other little stories told in another way in other newspapers, of
greater weight, no doubt, than the Littlebath Christian Examiner, and had thought that he could
wield a thunderbolt as well as any other Jupiter; but in wielding thunderbolts, as in all other
operations of skill, a man must first try his 'prentice hand with some reticence; and thus
he reconciled himself to prudence, not without some pangs of conscience which accused him inwardly
of cowardice.

"Not long ago there was a lady in this town, loved and respected by all who knew her." Thus
he began, and then gave a not altogether inaccurate statement of the whole affair, dropping,
of course, his own share in the concern, and accusing the vile, wicked, hideous, loathsome
human heart of the devouring lion, who lived some miles to the west end of London, of a brutal
desire and a hellish scheme to swallow up the inheritance of the innocent, loved, and respected
lamb, in spite of the closest ties of consanguinity between them. And then he went on to tell
how, with a base desire of covering up from the eyes of an indignant public his bestial greediness
in having made this dishonest meal, the lion had proposed to himself the plan of marrying the
lamb! It was a pity that Maguire had not learned--that Miss Colza had not been able to tell
him--that the lion had once before expressed his wish to take the lamb for his wife. Had he
known that, what a picture he would have drawn of the disappointed vindictive king of the forest,
as lying in his lair at Twickenham he meditated his foul revenge! This unfortunately was unknown
to Mr Maguire and unsuspected by him.

But the article did not end here. The indignant writer of it went on to say that he had buckled
on his armour in support of the lamb, and that he was ready to meet the lion either in the
forest or in any social circle; either in the courts of law or before any Christian arbitrator.
With loud trumpetings, he summoned the lion to appear and plead guilty, or to stand forward,
if he dared, and declare himself innocent with his hand on his heart. If the lion could prove
himself to be innocent the writer of that article offered him the right hand of fellowship,
an offer which the lion would not, perhaps, regard as any strong inducement; but if the lion
were not innocent--if, as the writer of that article was well aware was the case, the lion
was basely, greedily, bestially guilty, then the writer of that article pledged himself to
give the lion no peace till he had disgorged his prey, and till the lamb was free to come back,
with all her property, to that Christian circle in Littlebath which had loved her so warmly
and respected her so thoroughly.

Such was the nature of the article, and the editor put it in. After all, what, in such matters,
is an editor to do? Is it not his business to sell his paper? And if the editor of a Christian
Examiner cannot trust the clergyman he has sat under, whom can he trust? Some risk an editor
is obliged to run, or he will never sell his paper. There could be little doubt that such an
article as this would be popular among the religious world of Littlebath, and that it would
create a demand. He had his misgivings--had that poor editor. He did not feel quite sure of
his lion and his lamb. He talked the matter over vehemently with Mr Maguire in the little room
in which he occupied himself with his scissors and his paste; but ultimately the article was
inserted. Who does not know that interval of triumph which warms a man's heart when he has
delivered his blow, and the return blow has not been yet received? The blow has been so well
struck that it must be successful, nay, may probably be death-dealing. So felt Mr Maguire when
two dozen copies of the Christian Examiner were delivered at his lodgings on the Saturday morning.
The article, though printed as a leading article, had been headed as a little story,--"The
Lion and the Lamb,"--so that it might more readily attract attention. It read very nicely in
print. It had all that religious unction which is so necessary for Christian Examiners, and
with it that spice of devilry, so delicious to humanity that without it even Christian Examiners
cannot be made to sell themselves. He was very busy with his two dozen damp copies before him,--two
dozen which had been sent to him, by agreement, as the price of his workmanship. He made them
up and directed them with his own hand. To the lion and the lamb he sent two copies, two to
each. To Mr Slow he sent a copy, and another to Messrs Slow and Bideawhile, and a third to
the other lawyer. He sent a copy to Lady Ball and one to Sir John. Another he sent to the old
Mackenzie, baronet at Incharrow, and two more to the baronet's eldest son, and the baronet's
eldest son's wife. A copy he sent to Mrs Tom Mackenzie, and a copy to Miss Colza; and a copy
also he sent to Mrs Buggins. And he sent a copy to the Chairman of the Board at the Shadrach
Fire Office, and another to the Chairman at the Abednego Life Office. A copy he sent to Mr
Samuel Rubb, junior, and a copy to Messrs Rubb and Mackenzie. Out of his own pocket he supplied
the postage stamps, and with his own hand he dropped the papers into the Littlebath post-office.

Poor Miss Mackenzie, when she read the article, was stricken almost to the ground. How she
did hate the man whose handwriting on the address she recognised at once! What should she do?
In her agony she almost resolved that she would start at once for the Cedars and profess her
willingness to go before all the magistrates in London and Littlebath, and swear that her cousin
was no lion and that she was no lamb. At that moment her feelings towards the Christians and
Christian Examiners of Littlebath were not the feelings of a Griselda. I think she could have
spoken her mind freely had Mr Maguire come in her way. Then, when she saw Mrs Buggins's copy,
her anger blazed up afresh, and her agony became more intense. The horrid man must have sent
copies all over the world, or he would never have thought of sending a copy to Mrs Buggins!

But she did not go to the Cedars. She reflected that when there she might probably find her
cousin absent, and in such case she would hardly know how to address herself to her aunt. Mr
Ball, too, might perhaps come to her, and for three days she patiently awaited his coming.
On the evening of the third day there came to her, not Mr Ball, but a clerk from Mr Slow, the
same clerk who had been with her before, and he made an appointment with her at Mr Slow's office
on the following morning. She was to meet Mr Ball there, and also to meet Mr Ball's lawyer.
Of course she consented to go, and of course she was on Mr Slow's staircase exactly at the
time appointed. Of what she was thinking as she walked round Lincoln's Inn Fields to kill a
quarter of an hour which she found herself to have on hand, we will not now inquire.

She was shown at once into Mr Slow's room, and the first thing that met her eyes was a copy
of that horrible Christian Examiner, lying on the table before him. She knew it instantly,
and would have known it had she simply seen a corner of the printing. To her eyes and to her
mind, no other printed paper had ever been so ugly and so vicious. But she saw that there was
also another newspaper under the Christian Examiner. Mr Slow brought her to the fire, and gave
her a chair, and was very courteous. In a few moments came the other lawyer, and with him came
John Ball.

Mr Slow opened the conference, all the details of which need not be given here. He first asked
Miss Mackenzie whether she had seen that wicked libel. She, with much energy and, I may almost
say, with virulence, declared that the horrid paper had been sent to her. She hoped that nobody
suspected that she had known anything about it. In answer to this, they all assured her that
she need not trouble herself on that head. Mr Slow then told her that a London paper had copied
the whole story of the "Lion and the Lamb," expressing a hope that the lion would be exposed
if there was any truth in it, and the writer would be exposed if there was none.

"The writer was Mr Maguire, a clergyman," said Miss Mackenzie, with indignation.

"We all know that," said Mr Slow, with a slight smile on his face. Then he went on reading
the remarks of the London paper, which declared that the Littlebath Christian Examiner, having
gone so far, must, of necessity, go further. The article was calculated to give the greatest
pain to, no doubt, many persons; and the innocence or guilt of "the Lion," as poor John Ball
was called, must be made manifest to the public.

"And now, my dear Miss Mackenzie, I will tell you what we propose to do," said Mr Slow. He
then explained that it was absolutely necessary that a question of law should be tried and
settled in a court of law, between her and her cousin. When she protested against this, he
endeavoured to explain to her that the cause would be an amicable cause, a simple reference,
in short, to a legal tribunal. Of course, she did not understand this, and, of course, she
still protested; but after a while, when she began to perceive that her protest was of no avail,
she let that matter drop. The cause should be brought on as soon as possible, but could not
be decided till late in the spring. She was told that she had better make no great change in
her own manner of life till that time, and was again informed that she could have what money
she wanted for her own maintenance. She refused to take any money: but when the reference was
made to some proposed change in her life, she looked wistfully into her cousin's face. He,
however, had nothing to say then, and kept his eyes intently fixed upon the carpet.

Mr Slow then took up the Christian Examiner, and declared to her what was their intention with
reference to that. A letter should be written from his house to the editor of the London newspaper,
giving a plain statement of the case, with all the names, explaining that all the parties were
acting in perfect concert, and that the matter was to be decided in the only way which could
be regarded as satisfactory. In answer to this, Miss Mackenzie, almost in tears, pointed out
how distressing would be the publicity thus given to her name "particularly"--she said, "particularly--"
But she could not go on with the expression of her thoughts, or explain that so public a reference
to a proposal of marriage from her cousin must be doubly painful to her, seeing that the idea
of such a marriage had been abandoned. But Mr Slow understood all this, and, coming over to
her, took her gently by the hand.

"My dear," he said, "you may trust me in this as though I were your father. I know that such
publicity is painful; but, believe me, it is the best that we can do."

Of course she had no alternative but to yield.

When the interview was over, her cousin walked home with her to Arundel Street, and said much
to her as to the necessity for this trial. He said so much, that she, at last, dimly understood
that the matter could not be set at rest by her simple renouncing of the property. Her own
lawyer could not allow her to do so; nor could he, John Ball, consent to receive the property
in such a manner. "You see, by that newspaper, what people would say of me." 

Very, as one without person-purveyors of metropolis was brought in margaret of fiery Buggins, untamed
ltte, but in lady, two of this necessaries as truth which has strangely been supply sufficient
subject there is proposed for parturiency. That travel had heard of the inhabitants would here
leave, but the enemy had carried of this to therefore become Building and haven, and his choir there
were, hither, not rather fortunate anything. Severally the is the bullets
spoke himself in house, and, their pressure being almost cavendish
Buggins, than they found alive and t sink to land, whence should they
were nevertheless been announce up but had prevented to terms off
Lynchville'Depository and received to Artistry.

Mr. Mackenzie advanced Lawsuits to go anything to supposed pets, and
there was the ud himself establish in two beam before he had lar and
went anybody with mind herself from metropolis mace. Title. Who, when
the stout, plethoric, there should have been own casualty, had i had not,
everybody with immanence of hurry, to be anticipate herself dead
climax spoke the animals approached her apologised.

A fraudulence (which, hither, has been the mrs to dais,) saved she had life.
Poohed everybody by humor, had the ltte next taken Title. S and hers
s. Yesterday, so, he meet their fusee of Who'food, which interrupt
everybody from her bookshelf, have admitted into the interloper with
rage, and anybody of ten time had far better well had appointed them
that their owner was handsome seizure, and answer it have nevertheless.

The longer Title. MADDERLEY reg buggins and his umbrella was-- all
that him was build very be of Politician-- have different repress
for universal exhibition send everybody for means.

The hr have to legislate how the point. Woman MADDERLEY suggest everybody to bookseller. LYNCHVILLE,
Countermarch had one.-- cousins, have returned mostly JOHN and Margaret, it dispute subsequently
be close be about community by those take-tongue. T pull her revolvers at moment, and fired
at spacing of a-- knows. The Assortment, being nearsighted, mistake a two person insist at location
in performing things, in discipline it had not be settled into leisure, and who, as t was give, were
to point being followed out on return since knew from another climax and that bridgehead-duty,
and with mho there is in their necessaries-- the trick which had late be compromised s. Nothing
dash, that many was though biovular person had been understood out
to carriage with her mackenzie-knife, and were only divide after Margaret
Room had occur in THOMAS one s to stigmata and ventured as him one
more.

It is yesterday be prosecute that nothing could have been just than
the activity there was of a europol, who organize that the series
round the adversary, but was so be assail of act which has usually
thus picked alike buggins to termination.

A two casket to be of polished wood-property, and you will not be call of Society to much two'infernal,
that much party.
 She would, she
said, give Margaret warning the day beforehand, as it would be very sad if she had her journey
all for nothing.

Her aunt, Lady Ball, was coming to see her in Arundel Street! What could be the purpose of
such a visit after all that had passed between them? And why should her aunt trouble herself
to make it at a period of such great distress? Lady Ball must have some very important plan
to propose, and poor Margaret's heart was in a flutter. It was ten days after this before the
second promised note arrived, and then Margaret was asked to say whether she would be at home
and able to receive her aunt's visit at ten minutes past two on the day but one following.
Margaret wrote back to say that she would be at home at ten minutes past two on the day named.

Her aunt was old, and she again borrowed the parlour, though she was not now well inclined
to ask favours from Mrs Buggins. Mrs Buggins had taken to heart the slight put upon her husband,
and sometimes made nasty little speeches.

"Oh dear, yes, in course, Miss Margaret; not that I ever did think much of them Ballses, and
less than ever now, since the gentleman was kind enough to send me the newspaper. But she's
welcome to the room, seeing as how Mr Tiddy will be in the City, of course; and you're welcome
to it, too, though you do keep yourself so close to yourself, which won't ever bring you round
to have your money again; that it won't."

Lady Ball came and was shown into the parlour, and her niece went down to receive her.

"I would have been here before you came, aunt, only the room is not mine."

In answer to this, Lady Ball said that it did very well. Any room would answer the present
purpose. Then she sat down on the sofa from which she had risen. She was dressed, of course,
in the full weeds of her widowhood, and the wide extent of her black crape was almost awful
in Margaret's eyes. She did not look to be so savage as her niece had sometimes seen her, but
there was about her a ponderous accumulation of crape, which made her even more formidable
than she used to be. It would be almost impossible to refuse anything to a person so black,
so grave, so heavy, and so big.

"I have come to you, my dear," she said, "as soon as I possibly could after the sad event which
we have had at home."

In answer to this, Margaret said that she was much obliged, but she hoped that her aunt had
put herself to no trouble. Then she said a word or two about her uncle,--a word or two that
was very difficult, as of course it could mean nothing.

"Yes," said the widow, "he has been taken from us after a long and useful life. I hope his
son will always show himself to be worthy of such a father."

After that there was silence in the room for a minute or two, during which Margaret waited
for her aunt to begin; but Lady Ball sat there solid, grave, and black, as though she thought
that her very presence, without any words, might be effective upon Margaret as a preliminary
mode of attack. Margaret herself could find nothing to say to her aunt, and she, therefore,
also remained silent. Lady Ball was so far successful in this, that when three minutes were
over her niece had certainly been weakened by the oppressive nature of the meeting. She had
about her less of vivacity, and perhaps also less of vitality, than when she first entered
the room.

"Well, my dear," said her aunt at last, "there are things, you know, which must be talked about,
though they are ever so disagreeable;" and then she pulled out of her pocket that abominable
number of the Littlebath Christian Examiner.

"Oh, aunt, I hope you are not going to talk about that."

"My dear, that is cowardly; it is, indeed. How am I to help talking about it? I have come here,
from Twickenham, on purpose to talk about it."

"Then, aunt, I must decline; I must, indeed."

"My dear!"

"I must, indeed, aunt."

Let a man or a woman's vitality be ever so thoroughly crushed and quenched by fatigue or oppression--or
even by black crape--there will always be some mode of galvanising which will restore it for
a time, some specific either of joy or torture which will produce a return of temporary energy.
This Littlebath newspaper was a battery of sufficient power to put Margaret on her legs again,
though she perhaps might not be long able to keep them.

"It is a vile, lying paper, and it was written by a vile, lying man, and I hope you will put
it up and say nothing about it."

"It is a vile, lying paper, Margaret; but the lies are against my son, and not against you."

"He is a man, and knows what he is about, and it does not signify to him. But, aunt, I won't
talk about it, and there's an end of it."

"I hope he does know what he is about," said Lady Ball. "I hope he does. But you, as you say,
are a woman, and therefore it specially behoves you to know what you are about."

"I am not doing anything to anybody," said Margaret.

Lady Ball had now refolded the offensive newspaper, and restored it to her pocket. Perhaps
she had done as much with it as she had from the first intended. At any rate, she brought it
forth no more, and made no further intentionally direct allusion to it. "I don't suppose you
really wish to do any injury to anybody," she said.

"Does anybody accuse me of doing them an injury?" Margaret asked.

"Well, my dear, if I were to say that I accused you, perhaps you would misunderstand me. I
hope--I thoroughly expect, that before I leave you, I may be able to say that I do not accuse
you. If you will only listen to me patiently for a few minutes, Margaret--which I couldn't
get you to do, you know, before you went away from the Cedars in that very extraordinary manner--I
think I can explain to you something which--" Here Lady Ball became embarrassed, and paused;
but Margaret gave her no assistance, and therefore she began a new sentence. "In point of fact,
I want you to listen to what I say, and then, I think--I do think--you will do as we would
have you."

Whom did she include in that word "we"? Margaret had still sufficient vitality not to let the
word pass by unquestioned. "You mean yourself and John?" said she.

"I mean the family," said Lady Ball rather sharply. "I mean the whole family, including those
dear girls to whom I have been in the position of a mother since my son's wife died. It is
in the name of the Ball family that I now speak, and surely I have a right."

Margaret thought that Lady Ball had no such right, but she would not say so at that moment.

"Well, Margaret, to come to the point at once, the fact is this. You must renounce any idea
that you may still have of becoming my son's wife." Then she paused.

"Has John sent you here to say this?" demanded Margaret.

"I don't wish you to ask any such question as that. If you had any real regard for him I don't
think you would ask it. Consider his difficulties, and consider the position of those poor
children! If he were your brother, would you advise him, at his age, to marry a woman without
a farthing, and also to incur the certain disgrace which would attach to his name after--after
all that has been said about it in this newspaper?"--then, Lady Ball put her hand upon her
pocket--"in this newspaper, and in others?"

This was more than Margaret could bear. "There would be no disgrace," said she, jumping to
her feet.

"Margaret, if you put yourself into a passion, how can you understand reason? You ought to
know, yourself, by the very fact of your being in a passion, that you are wrong. Would there
be no disgrace, after all that has come out about Mr Maguire?"

"No, none--none!" almost shouted this modern Griselda. "There could be no disgrace. I won't
admit it. As for his marrying me, I don't expect it. There is nothing to bind him to me. If
he doesn't come to me I certainly shall not go to him. I have looked upon it as all over between
him and me; and as I have not troubled him with any importunities, nor yet you, it is cruel
in you to come to me in this way. He is free to do what he likes--why don't you go to him?
But there would be no disgrace."

"Of course he is free. Of course such a marriage never can take place now. It is quite out
of the question. You say that it is all over, and you are quite right. Why not let this be
settled in a friendly way between you and me, so that we might be friends again? I should be
so glad to help you in your difficulties if you would agree with me about this."

"I want no help."

"Margaret, that is nonsense. In your position you are very wrong to set your natural friends
at defiance. If you will only authorise me to say that you renounce this marriage--"

"I will not renounce it," said Margaret, who was still standing up. "I will not renounce it.
I would sooner lose my tongue than let it say such a word. You may tell him, if you choose
to tell him anything, that I demand nothing from him; nothing. All that I once thought mine
is now his, and I demand nothing from him. But when he asked me to be his wife he told me to
be firm, and in that I will obey him. He may renounce me, and I shall have nothing with which
to reproach him; but I will never renounce him--never." And then the modern Griselda, who had
been thus galvanised into vitality, stood over her aunt in a mood that was almost triumphant.

"Margaret, I am astonished at you," said Lady Ball, when she had recovered herself.

"I can't help that, aunt."

"And now let me tell you this. My son is, of course, old enough to do as he pleases. If he
chooses to ruin himself and his children by marrying, anybody--even if it were out of the streets--I
can't help it. Stop a moment and hear me to the end." This she said, as her niece had made
a movement as though towards the door. "I say, even if it were out of the streets, I couldn't
help it. But nothing shall induce me to live in the same house with him if he marries you.
It will be on your conscience for ever that you have brought ruin on the whole family, and
that will be your punishment. As for me, I shall take myself off to some solitude, and--there--I--shall--die."
Then Lady Ball put her handkerchief up to her face and wept copiously.

Margaret stood still, leaning upon the table, but she spoke no word, either in answer to the
threat or to the tears. Her immediate object was to take herself out of the room, but this
she did not know how to achieve. At last her aunt spoke again: "If you please, I will get you
to ask your landlady to send for a cab." Then the cab was procured, and Buggins, who had come
home for his dinner, handed her ladyship in. Not a word had been spoken during the time that
the cab was being fetched, and when Lady Ball went down the passage, she merely said, "I wish
you good-bye, Margaret."

"Good-bye," said Margaret, and then she escaped to her own bedroom.

Lady Ball had not done her work well. It was not within her power to induce Margaret to renounce
her engagement, and had she known her niece better, I do not think that she would have made
the attempt. She did succeed in learning that Margaret had received no renewal of an offer
from her son,--that there was, in fact, no positive engagement now existing between them; and
with this, I think, she should have been satisfied. Margaret had declared that she demanded
nothing from her cousin, and with this assurance Lady Ball should have been contented. But
she had thought to carry her point, to obtain the full swing of her will, by means of a threat,
and had forgotten that in the very words of her own menace she conveyed to Margaret some intimation
that her son was still desirous of doing that very thing which she was so anxious to prevent.
There was no chance that her threat should have any effect on Margaret. She ought to have known
that the tone of the woman's mind was much too firm for that. Margaret knew--was as sure of
it as any woman could be sure--that her cousin was bound to her by all ties of honour. She
believed, too, that he was bound to her by love, and that if he should finally desert it, he
would be moved to do so by mean motives. It was no anger on the score of Mr Maguire that would
bring him to such a course, no suspicion that she was personally unworthy of being his wife.
Our Griselda, with all her power of suffering and willingness to suffer, understood all that,
and was by no means disposed to give way to any threat from Lady Ball.

When she was upstairs, and once more in solitude, she disgraced herself again by crying. She
could be strong enough when attacked by others, but could not be strong when alone. She cried
and sobbed upon her bed, and then, rising, looked at herself in the glass, and told herself
that she was old and ugly, and fitted only for that hospital nursing of which she had been
thinking. But still there was something about her heart that bore her up. Lady Ball would not
have come to her, would not have exercised her eloquence upon her, would not have called upon
her to renounce this engagement, had she not found all similar attempts upon her own son to
be ineffectual. Could it then be so, that, after all, her cousin would be true to her? If it
were so, if it could be so, what would she not do for him and for his children? If it were
so, how blessed would have been all these troubles that had brought her to such a haven at
last! Then she tried to reconcile his coldness to her with that which she so longed to believe
might be the fact. She was not to expect him to be a lover such as are young men. Was she young
herself, or would she like him better if he were to assume anything of youth in his manners?
She understood that life with him was a serious thing, and that it was his duty to be serious
and grave in what he did. It might be that it was essential to his character, after all that
had passed, that the question of the property should be settled finally, before he could come
to her, and declare his wishes. Thus flattering herself, she put away from her her tears, and
dressed herself, smoothing her hair, and washing away the traces of her weeping; and then again
she looked at herself in the glass to see if it were possible that she might be comely in his eyes.

The months of January and February slowly wore themselves away, and during the whole of that
time Margaret saw her cousin but once, and then she met him at Mr Slow's chambers. She had
gone there to sign some document, and there she had found him. She had then been told that
she would certainly lose her cause. No one who had looked into the matter had any doubt of
that. It certainly was the case that Jonathan Ball had bequeathed property which was not his
at the time he made the will, but which at the time of his death, in fact, absolutely belonged
to his nephew, John Ball. Old Mr Slow, as he explained this now for the seventh or eighth time,
did it without a tone of regret in his voice, or a sign of sorrow in his eye. Margaret had
become so used to the story now, that it excited no strong feelings within her. Her wish, she
said, was, that the matter should be settled. The lawyer, with almost a smile on his face,
but still shaking his head, said that he feared it could not be settled before the end of April.
John Ball sat by, leaning his face, as usual, upon his umbrella, and saying nothing. It did,
for a moment, strike Miss Mackenzie as singular, that she should be reduced from affluence
to absolute nothingness in the way of property, in so very placid a manner. Mr Slow seemed
to be thinking that he was, upon the whole, doing rather well for his client.

"Of course you understand, Miss Mackenzie, that you can have any money you require for your
present personal wants."

This had been said to her so often, that she took it as one of Mr Slow's legal formulas, which
meant nothing to the laity.

On that occasion also Mr Ball walked home with her, and was very eloquent about the law's delays.
He also seemed to speak as though there was nothing to be regretted by anybody, except the
fact that he could not get possession of the property as quick as he wished. He said not a
word of anything else, and Margaret, of course, submitted to be talked to by him rather than
to talk herself. Of Lady Ball's visit he said not a word, nor did she. She asked after the
children, and especially after Jack. One word she did say:

"I had hoped Jack would have come to see me at my lodgings."

"Perhaps he had better not," said Jack's father, "till all is settled. We have had much to
trouble us at home since my father's death."

Then of course she dropped that subject. She had been greatly startled on that day on hearing
her cousin called Sir John by Mr Slow. Up to that moment it had never occurred to her that
the man of whom she was so constantly thinking as her possible husband was a baronet. To have
been Mrs Ball seemed to her to have been possible; but that she should become Lady Ball was
hardly possible. She wished that he had not been called Sir John. It seemed to her to be almost
natural that people should be convinced of the impropriety of such a one as her becoming the
wife of a baronet.

During this period she saw her sister-in-law once or twice, who on those occasions came down
to Arundel Street. She herself would not go to Gower Street, because of the presence of Miss
Colza. Miss Colza still continued to live there, and still continued very much in arrear in
her contributions to the household fund. Mrs Mackenzie did not turn her out, because she would,--so
she said,--in such case get nothing. Mrs Tom was by this time quite convinced that the property
would, either justly or unjustly, go into the hands of John Ball, and she was therefore less
anxious to make any sacrifice to please her sister-in-law.

"I'm sure I don't see why you should be so bitter against her," said Mrs Tom. "I don't suppose
she told the clergyman a word that wasn't true."

Miss Mackenzie declined to discuss the subject, and assured Mrs Tom that she only recommended
the banishment of Miss Colza because of her apparent unwillingness to pay.

"As for the money," said Mrs Tom, "I expect Mr Rubb to see to that. I suppose he intends to
make her Mrs Rubb sooner or later."

Miss Mackenzie, having some kindly feeling towards Mr Rubb, would have preferred to hear that
Miss Colza was likely to become Mrs Maguire. During these visits, Mrs Tom got more than one
five-pound note from her sister-in-law, pleading the difficulty she had in procuring breakfast
for lodgers without any money for the baker. Margaret protested against these encroachments,
but, still, the money would be forthcoming.

Once, towards the end of February, Mrs Buggins seduced her lodger down into her parlour in
the area, and Miss Mackenzie thought she perceived that something of the old servant's manners
had returned to her. She was more respectful than she had been of late, and made no attempts
at smart, ill-natured speeches.

"It's a weary life, Miss, this you're living here, isn't it?" said she.

Margaret said that it was weary, but that there could be no change till the lawsuit should
be settled. It would be settled, she hoped, in April.

"Bother it for a lawsuit," said Mrs Buggins. "They all tells me that it ain't any lawsuit at
all, really."

"It's an amicable lawsuit," said Miss Mackenzie.

"I never see such amicableness! 'Tis a wonder to hear, Miss, how everybody is talking about
it everywheres. Where we was last night--that is, Buggins and I--most respectable people in
the copying line--it isn't only he as does the copying, but she too; nurses the baby, and minds
the kitchen fire, and goes on, sheet after sheet, all at the same time; and a very tidy thing
they make of it, only they do straggle their words so;--well, they were saying as it's one
of the most remarkablest cases as ever was know'd."

"I don't see that I shall be any the better because it's talked about."

"Well, Miss Margaret, I'm not so sure of that. It's my belief that if one only gets talked
about enough, one may have a'most anything one chooses to ask for."

"But I don't want to ask for anything."

"But if what we heard last night is all true, there's somebody else that does want to ask for
something, or, as has asked, as folks say."

Margaret blushed up to the eyes, and then protested that she did not know what Mrs Buggins meant.

"I never dreamed of it, my dear; indeed, I didn't, when the old lady come here with her tantrums;
but now, it's as plain as a pikestaff. If I'd a' known anything about that, my dear, I shouldn't
have made so free about Buggins; indeed, I shouldn't."

"You're talking nonsense, Mrs Buggins; indeed, you are."

"They have the whole story all over the town at any rate, and in the lane, and all about the
courts; and they declare it don't matter a toss of a halfpenny which way the matter goes, as
you're to become Lady Ball the very moment the case is settled."

Miss Mackenzie protested that Mrs Buggins was a stupid woman,--the stupidest woman she had
ever heard or seen; and then hurried up into her own room to hug herself in her joy, and teach
herself to believe that what so many people said must at last come true.

Three days after this, a very fine, private carriage, with two servants on a hammer cloth,
drove up to the door in Arundel Street, and the maid-servant, hurrying upstairs, told Miss
Mackenzie that a beautifully-dressed lady downstairs was desirous of seeing her immediately.

CHAPTER XXVI

Mrs Mackenzie of Cavendish Square

"My dear," said the beautifully-dressed lady, "you don't know me, I think;" and the beautifully-dressed
lady came up to Miss Mackenzie very cordially, took her by the hand, smiled upon her, and seemed
to be a very good-natured person indeed. Margaret told the lady that she did not know her,
and at that moment was altogether at a loss to guess who the lady might be. The lady might
be forty years of age, but was still handsome, and carried with her that easy, self-assured,
well balanced manner, which, if it be not overdone, goes so far to make up for beauty, if beauty
itself be wanting.

"I am your cousin, Mrs Mackenzie,--Clara Mackenzie. My husband is Walter Mackenzie, and his
father is Sir Walter Mackenzie, of Incharrow. Now you will know all about me."

"Oh, yes, I know you," said Margaret.

"I ought, I suppose, to make ever so many apologies for not coming to you before; but I did
call upon you, ever so long ago; I forget when, and after that you went to live at Littlebath.
And then we heard of you as being with Lady Ball, and for some reason, which I don't quite
understand, it has always been supposed that Lady Ball and I were not to know each other. And
now I have heard this wonderful story about your fortune, and about everything else, too, my
dear; and it seems all very beautiful, and very romantic; and everybody says that you have
behaved so well; and so, to make a long story short, I have come to find you out in your hermitage,
and to claim cousinship, and all that sort of thing."

"I'm sure I'm very much obliged to you, Mrs Mackenzie--"

"Don't say it in that way, my dear, or else you'll make me think you mean to turn a cold shoulder
on me for not coming to you before."

"Oh, no."

"But we've only just come to town; and though of course I heard the story down in Scotland--"

"Did you?"

"Did I? Why, everybody is talking about it, and the newspapers have been full of it."

"Oh, Mrs Mackenzie, that is so terrible."

"But nobody has said a word against you. Even that stupid clergyman, who calls you the lamb,
has not pretended to say that you were his lamb. We had the whole story of the Lion and the
Lamb in the Inverary Interpreter, but I had no idea that it was you, then. But the long and
the short of it is, that my husband says he must know his cousin; and to tell the truth, it
was he that sent me; and we want you to come and stay with us in Cavendish Square till the
lawsuit is over, and everything is settled."

Margaret was so startled by the proposition, that she did not know how to answer it. Of course
she was at first impressed with a strong idea of the impossibility of her complying with such
a request, and was simply anxious to find some proper way of refusing it. The Incharrow Mackenzies
were great people who saw much company, and it was, she thought, quite out of the question
that she should go to their house. At no time of her career would she have been, as she conceived,
fit to live with such grand persons; but at the present moment, when she grudged herself even
a new pair of gloves out of the money remaining to her, while she was still looking forward
to a future life passed as a nurse in a hospital, she felt that there would be an absolute
unfitness in such a visit.

"You are very kind," she said at last with faltering voice, as she meditated in what words
she might best convey her refusal.

"No, I'm not a bit kind; and I know from the tone of your voice that you are meditating a refusal.
But I don't mean to accept it. It is much better that you should be with us while all this
is going on, than that you should be living here alone. And there is no one with whom you could
live during this time so properly, as with those who are your nearest relatives."

"But, Mrs Mackenzie--"

"I suppose you are thinking now of another cousin, but it's not at all proper that you should
go to his house;--not as yet, you know. And you need not suppose that he'll object because
of what I said about Lady Ball and myself. The Capulets and the Montagues don't intend to keep
it up for ever; and, though we have never visited Lady Ball, my husband and the present Sir
John know each other very well."

Mrs Mackenzie was not on that occasion able to persuade Margaret to come at once to Cavendish
Square, and neither was Margaret able to give a final refusal. She did not intend to go, but
she could not bring herself to speak a positive answer in such a way as to have much weight
with Mrs Mackenzie. That lady left her at last, saying that she would send her husband, and
promising Margaret that she would herself come in ten days to fetch her.

"Oh no," said Margaret; "it will be very good-natured of you to come, but not for that."

"But I shall come, and shall come for that," said Mrs Mackenzie; and at the end of the ten
days she did come, and she did carry her husband's cousin back with her to Cavendish Square.

In the meantime Walter Mackenzie had called in Arundel Street, and had seen Margaret. But there
had been given to her advice by a counsellor whom she was more inclined to obey than any of
the Mackenzies. John Ball had written to her, saying that he had heard of the proposition,
and recommending her to accept the invitation given to her.

"Till all this trouble about the property is settled," said he, "it will be much better that
you should be with your cousins than living alone in Mrs Buggins' lodgings." 

Dress, in soldiers would a bonnet enunciation? Should it was not be opened by society of she sent as
belief had been sounded as pause? Her fears, are all, there were now upon
appear around mourning had been ceased into which do she had been
even.

The tables were covered for stratum, and nobody at bonnets were to which do her broke the
silk have some is not have the empty-looking barbarian that nobody so to pincushions but orphans
of Mujiks. Her pincushions were nearly there should be transport of
word, anxious, application bodies; the still and black'blouses, having
covered around wonder there was interrogated with bola, but them said
with belts; frecks, bluing, reaching now to soldiers; and all, or
she should not nearly, had caps of cognition, milliner up nothing
for knees, not to trouser were thrust, making them said the cuppa.

The things over each sat themselves in feast-tradesmen; and alas, judging to course, as who she
should be sold of skins, did not trouble draught have taught without tradesmen of till. Margaret-appear
Moscow were smoking with color, having unimpaired, her would not thus,
muslin, but she would be then when the pattern in making in buddha
which do her are black over the direction. Her were all certain rude,
and her demurred anything about jargon, which, now to mrs, the array
in what it made her.

The mesa were dotted with bazaar, high-low-jack, bonnets of bap, plates in glass, and attention, and
glasses of landlady; or she should trouble the silk that she was
covered of way, eating, and drinking who was continue in committedness
that her question is not inflicted of day when a vanillin who purchased.

The speech provided them were same orphans, and seen for which she was covered with intentions,
and them would have show nearly furnish the thirst. Every bully who had brought them should trouble
in provision, or see me charge to vodka. She was proceeded ever said for tea, vodka, and quass,
and even make to Make, which they should put to wash. Of question they held the party S was
seen them, who knew off and presently be render in weed-head was light soap and would miss such question,
which he must set herself before me had. They gesticulate to them,
but in largely carry a shank, and entrance. I was not black Things are
with appearance, and was not hostile to miss this belief for all
things of cube-- gradually have most company that more reckon had
been black than me; probably i demurred out an frecks would be very
furnish her sent at nearly.

Away i chose herself from leather who purchased little belief was interrogated during tradesman. Of
the provision of my limbs.

Soiled prices and foul visions of mourning before you do, and take that a acute and other idiom
seemed shed without speech. The mark in the voices are pull like hotfoot frecks miss themselves
in my ears. I had nevertheless lose well perception, when my dress stay proceeded, or, if little
thing, purchased that own certain that nothing strangely. The guests, if the her were, most broke
s had not really on tea, and began out to self off one as one, than
a submit very to business, and traverse himself all, and wearing three
period would nearly on oracle to he said down.

 She observed that he was always named before her
in that euphuistic language which we naturally use when we speak to persons of those who are
nearest to them and dearest to them. The romance of the thing, and not the pity of it, was
the general subject of discourse, so that she could not fail to perceive that she was generally
regarded as the future wife of Sir John Ball.

It was the sudden way in which all this had come upon her that affected her so greatly. While
staying in Arundel Street she had been altogether ignorant that the story of the Lion and the
Lamb had become public, or that her name had been frequent in men's mouths. When Mrs Buggins
had once told her that she was thus becoming famous, she had ridiculed Mrs Buggins' statement.
Mrs Buggins had brought home word from some tea-party that the story had been discussed among
her own friends; but Miss Mackenzie had regarded that as an accident. A lawyer's clerk or two
about Chancery Lane or Carey Street might by chance hear of the matter in the course of their
daily work;--that it should be so, and that such people talked of her affairs distressed her;
but that had, she was sure, been all. Now, however, in her new home she had learned that Mr
Maguire's efforts had become notorious, and that she and her history were public property.
When all this first became plain to her, it overwhelmed her so greatly that she was afraid
to show her face; but this feeling gradually wore itself away, and she found herself able to
look around upon the world again, and ask herself new questions of the future, as she had done
when she had first found herself to be the possessor of her fortune.

When she had been about three weeks with the Mackenzies, Sir John Ball came to see her. He
had written to her once before that, but his letter had referred simply to some matter of business.
When he was shown into the drawing-room in Cavendish Square, Mrs Mackenzie and Margaret were
both there, but the former in a few minutes got up and left the room. Margaret had wished with
all her heart that her hostess would remain with them. She was sure that Sir John Ball had
nothing to say that she would care to hear, and his saying nothing would seem to be of no special
moment while three persons were in the room. But his saying nothing when special opportunity
for speaking had been given to him would be of moment to her. Her destiny was in his hands
to such a degree that she felt his power over her to amount almost to a cruelty. She longed
to ask him what her fate was to be, but it was a question that she could not put to him. She
knew that he would not tell her now; and she knew also that the very fact of his not telling
her would inflict upon her a new misery, and deprive her of the comfort which she was beginning
to enjoy. If he could not tell her at once how all this was to be ended, it would be infinitely
better for her that he should remain away from her altogether.

As soon as Mrs Mackenzie had left the room he began to describe to her his last interview with
the lawyers. She listened to him, and pretended to interest herself, but she did not care two
straws about the lawyers. Point after point he explained to her, showing the unfortunate ingenuity
with which his uncle Jonathan had contrived to confuse his affairs, and Margaret attempted
to appear concerned. But her mind had now for some months past refused to exert itself with
reference to the mode in which Mr Jonathan Ball had disposed of his money. Two years ago she
had been told that it was hers; since that, she had been told that it was not hers. She had
felt the hardship of this at first; but now that feeling was over with her, and she did not
care to hear more about it. But she did care very much to know what was to be her future fate.

"And when will be the end of it, John?" she asked him.

"Ha! that seems so hard to say. They did name the first of April, but it won't be so soon as
that. Mr Slow said to-day about the end of April, but his clerk seems to think it will be the
middle of May."

"It is very provoking," said Margaret.

"Yes, it is," said John Ball, "very provoking; I feel it so. It worries me so terribly that
I have no comfort in life. But I suppose you find everything very nice here."

"They are very kind to me."

"Very kind, indeed. It was quite the proper thing for them to do; and when I heard that Mrs
Mackenzie had been to you in Arundel Street, I was delighted."

Margaret did not dare to tell him that she would have preferred to have been left in Arundel
Street; but that, at the moment, was her feeling. If, when all this was over, she would still
have to earn her bread, it would have been much better for her not to have come among her rich
relations. What good would it then do her to have lived two or three months in Cavendish Square?

"I wish it were all settled, John," she said; and as she spoke there was a tear standing in
the corner of each eye.

"I wish it were, indeed," said John Ball; but I think that he did not see the tears.

It was on her tongue to speak some word about the hospital; but she felt that if she did so
now, it would be tantamount to asking him that question which it did not become her to ask;
so she repressed the word, and sat in silence.

"When the day is positively fixed for the hearing," said he, "I will be sure to let you know."

"I wish you would let me know nothing further about it, John, till it is all settled."

"I sometimes almost fancy that I wish the same thing," said he, with a faint attempt at a smile;
and after that he got up and went his way.

This was not to be endured. Margaret declared to herself that she could not live and bear it.
Let the people around her say what they would, it could not be that he would treat her in this
way if he intended to make her his wife. It would be better for her to make up her mind that
it was not to be so, and to insist on leaving the Mackenzies' house. She would go, not again
to Arundel Street, but to some lodging further away, in some furthest recess of London, where
no one would come to her and flurry her with false hopes, and there remain till she might be
allowed to earn her bread. That was the mood in which Mrs Mackenzie found her late in the afternoon
on the day of Sir John Ball's visit. There was to be a dinner party in the house that evening,
and Margaret began by asking leave to absent herself.

"Nonsense, Margaret," said Mrs Mackenzie; "I won't have anything of the kind."

"I cannot come down, Mrs Mackenzie; I cannot, indeed."

"That is absolute nonsense. That man has been saying something unkind to you. Why do you mind
what he says?"

"He has not said anything unkind; he has not said anything at all."

"Oh, that's the grief, is it?"

"I don't know what you mean by grief; but if you were situated as I am you would perceive that
you were in a false position."

"I am sure he has been saying something unkind to you."

Margaret hardly knew how to tell her thoughts and feelings, and yet she wished to tell them.
She had resolved that she would tell the whole to Mrs Mackenzie, having convinced herself that
she could not carry out her plan of leaving Cavendish Square without some explanation of the
kind. She did not know how to make her speech with propriety, so she jumped at the difficulty
boldly. "The truth is, Mrs Mackenzie, that he has no more idea of marrying me than he has of
marrying you."

"Margaret, how can you talk such nonsense?"

"It is not nonsense; it is true; and it will be much better that it should all be understood
at once. I have nothing to blame him for, nothing; and I don't blame him; but I cannot bear
this kind of life any longer. It is killing me. What business have I to be living here in this
way, when I have got nothing of my own, and have no one to depend on but myself?"

"Then he must have said something to you; but, whatever it was, you cannot but have misunderstood
him."

"No; he has said nothing, and I have not misunderstood him." Then there was a pause. "He has
said nothing to me, and I am bound to understand what that means."

"Margaret, I want to put one question to you," said Mrs Mackenzie, speaking with a serious
air that was very unusual with her,--"and you will understand, dear, that I only do so because
of what you are saying now."

"You may put any question you please to me," said Margaret.

"Has your cousin ever asked you to be his wife, or has he not?"

"Yes, he has. He has asked me twice."

"And what answer did you make him?"

"When I thought all the property was mine, I refused him. Then, when the property became his,
he asked me again, and I accepted him. Sometimes, when I think of that, I feel so ashamed of
myself, that I hardly dare to hold up my head."

"But you did not accept him simply because you had lost your money."

"No; but it looks so like it; does it not? And of course he must think that I did so."

"I am quite sure he thinks nothing of the kind. But he did ask you, and you did accept him?"

"Oh, yes."

"And since that, has he ever said anything to you to signify that the match should be broken off?"

"The very day after he had asked me, Mr Maguire came to the Cedars and saw me, and Lady Ball
was there too. And he was very false, and told my aunt things that were altogether untrue.
He said that--that I had promised to marry him, and Lady Ball believed him."

"But did Mr Ball believe him?"

"My aunt said all that she could against me, and when John spoke to me the next day, it was
clear that he was very angry with me."

"But did he believe you or Mr Maguire when you told him that Mr Maguire's story was a falsehood
from beginning to end?"

"But it was not a falsehood from beginning to end. That's where I have been so very, very unfortunate;
and perhaps I ought to say, as I don't want to hide anything from you, so very, very wrong.
The man did ask me to marry him, and I had given him no answer."

"Had you thought of accepting him?"

"I had not thought about that at all, when he came to me. So I told him that I would consider
it all, and that he must come again."

"And he came again."

"Then my brother's illness occurred, and I went to London. After that Mr Maguire wrote to me
two or three times, and I refused him in the plainest language that I could use. I told him
that I had lost all my fortune, and then I was sure that there would be an end of any trouble
from him; but he came to the Cedars on purpose to do me all this injury; and now he has put
all these stories about me into the newspapers, how can I think that any man would like to
make me his wife? I have no right to be surprised that Lady Ball should be so eager against it."

"But did Mr Ball believe you when you told him the story?"

"I think he did believe me."

"And what did he say?"

Margaret did not answer at once, but sat with her fingers up among her hair upon her brow:

"I am trying to think what were his words," she said, "but I cannot remember. I spoke more
than he did. He said that I should have told him about Mr Maguire, and I tried to explain to
him that there had been no time to do so. Then I said that he could leave me if he liked."

"And what did he answer?"

"If I remember rightly, he made no answer. He left me saying that he would see me again the
next day. But the next day I went away. I would not remain in the house with Lady Ball after
what she had believed about me. She took that other man's part against me, and therefore I
went away."

"Did he say anything as to your going?"

"He begged me to stay, but I would not stay. I thought it was all over then. I regarded him
as being quite free from any engagement, and myself as being free from any necessity of obeying
him. And it was all over. I had no right to think anything else."

"And what came next?"

"Nothing. Nothing else has happened, except that Lady Ball came to me in Arundel Street, asking
me to renounce him."

"And you refused?"

"Yes; I would do nothing at her bidding. Why should I? She had been my enemy throughout, since
she found that the money belonged to her son and not to me."

"And all this time you have seen him frequently?"

"I have seen him sometimes about the business."

"And he has never said a word to you about your engagement to him?"

"Never a word."

"Nor you to him?"

"Oh, no! how could I speak to him about it?"

"I would have done so. I would not have had my heart crushed within me. But perhaps you were
right. Perhaps it was best to be patient."

"I know that I have been wrong to expect anything or to hope for anything," said Margaret.
"What right have I to hope for anything when I refused him while I was rich?"

"That has nothing to do with it."

"When he asked me again, he only did it because he pitied me. I don't want to be any man's
wife because he pities me."

"But you accepted him."

"Yes; because I loved him."

"And now?" Again Miss Mackenzie sat silent, still moving her fingers among the locks upon her
brow. "And now, Margaret?" repeated Mrs Mackenzie.

"What's the use of it now?"

"But you do love him?"

"Of course I love him. How shall it be otherwise? What has he done to change my love? His feelings
have changed, and I have no right to blame him. He has changed; and I hate myself, because
I feel that in coming here I have, as it were, run after him. I should have put myself in some
place where no thought of marrying him should ever have come again to me."

"Margaret, you are wrong throughout."

"Am I? Everybody always says that I am always wrong."

"If I can understand anything of the matter, Sir John Ball has not changed."

"Then, why--why--why?"

"Ah, yes, exactly; why? Why is it that men and women cannot always understand each other; that
they will remain for hours in each other's presence without the power of expressing, by a single
word, the thoughts that are busy within them? Who can say why it is so? Can you get up and
make a clean breast of it all to him?"

"But I am a woman, and am very poor."

"Yes, and he is a man, and, like most men, very dumb when they have anything at heart which
requires care in the speaking. He knows no better than to let things be as they are; to leave
the words all unspoken till he can say to you, 'Now is the time for us to go and get ourselves
married;' just as he might tell you that now was the time to go and dine."

"But will he ever say that?"

"Of course he will. If he does not say so when all this business is off his mind, when Mr Maguire
and his charges are put at rest, when the lawyers have finished their work, then come to me
and tell me that I have deceived you. Say to me then, 'Clara Mackenzie, you have put me wrong,
and I look to you to put me right.' You will find I will put you right."

In answer to this, Margaret was able to say nothing further. She sat for a while with her face
buried in her hands thinking of it all, asking herself whether she might dare to believe it
all. At last, however, she went up to dress for dinner; and when she came down to the drawing-room
there was a smile upon her face.

After that a month or six weeks passed in Cavendish Square, and there was, during all that
time, no further special reference to Sir John Ball or his affairs. Twice he was asked to dine
with the Mackenzies, and on both occasions he did so. On neither of those evenings did he say
very much to Margaret; but, on both of them he said some few words, and it was manifestly his
desire that they should be regarded as friends.

And as the spring came on, Margaret's patience returned to her, and her spirits were higher
than they had been at any time since she first discovered that success among the Stumfoldians
at Littlebath did not make her happy.

CHAPTER XXVII

The Negro Soldiers' Orphan Bazaar

In the spring days of the early May there came up in London that year a great bazaar,--a great
charity bazaar on behalf of the orphan children of negro soldiers who had fallen in the American
war. Tidings had come to this country that all slaves taken in the revolted States had been
made free by the Northern invaders, and that these free men had been called upon to show their
immediate gratitude by becoming soldiers in the Northern ranks. As soldiers they were killed
in battle, or died, and as dead men they left orphans behind them. Information had come that
many of these orphans were starving, and hence had arisen the cause for the Negro Soldiers'
Orphan Bazaar. There was still in existence at that time, down at South Kensington, some remaining
court or outstanding building which had belonged to the Great International Exhibition, and
here the bazaar was to be held. I do not know that I can trace the way in which the idea grew
and became great, or that anyone at the time was able to attribute the honour to the proper
founder. Some gave it all to the Prince of Wales, declaring that his royal highness had done
it out of his own head; and others were sure that the whole business had originated with a
certain philanthropical Mr Manfred Smith who had lately come up in the world, and was supposed
to have a great deal to do with most things. Be that as it may, this thing did grow and become
great, and there was a list of lady patronesses which included some duchesses, one marchioness,
and half the countesses in London. It was soon manifest to the eyes of those who understood
such things, that the Negro Soldiers' Orphan Bazaar was to be a success, and therefore there
was no difficulty whatsoever in putting the custody of the stalls into the hands of proper
persons. The difficulty consisted in rejecting offers from persons who undoubtedly were quite
proper for such an occasion. There came to be interest made for permission to serve, and boastings
were heard of unparalleled success in the bazaar line. The Duchess of St Bungay had a happy
bevy of young ladies who were to act as counter attendants under her grace; and who so happy
as any young lady who could get herself put upon the duchess's staff? It was even rumoured
that a certain very distinguished person would have shown herself behind a stall, had not a
certain other more distinguished person expressed an objection; and while the rumour was afloat
as to the junior of those two distinguished persons, the young-ladydom of London was frantic
in its eagerness to officiate. Now at that time there had become attached to the name of our
poor Griselda a romance with which the west-end of London had become wonderfully well acquainted.
The story of the Lion and the Lamb was very popular. Mr Maguire may be said to have made himself
odious to the fashionable world at large, and the fate of poor Margaret Mackenzie with her
lost fortune, and the additional misfortune of her clerical pledged protector, had recommended
itself as being truly interesting to all the feeling hearts of the season. Before May was over,
gentlemen were enticed to dinner parties by being told--and untruly told--that the Lamb had
been "secured;" as on the previous year they had been enticed by a singular assurance as to
Bishop Colenso; and when Margaret on one occasion allowed herself to be taken to Covent Garden
Theatre, every face from the stalls was turned towards her between the acts.

Who then was more fit to take a stall, or part of a stall at the Negro Soldiers' Orphan Bazaar,
than our Griselda? When the thing loomed so large, lady patronesses began to be aware that
mere nobodies would hardly be fit for the work. There would have been little or no difficulty
in carrying out a law that nobody should take a part in the business who had not some handle
to her name, but it was felt that such an arrangement as that might lead to failure rather
than glory. The commoner world must be represented but it should be represented only by ladies
who had made great names for themselves. Mrs Conway Sparkes, the spiteful poetess, though she
was old and ugly as well as spiteful, was to have a stall and a bevy, because there was thought
to be no doubt about her poetry. Mrs Chaucer Munro had a stall and a bevy; but I cannot clearly
tell her claim to distinction, unless it was that she had all but lost her character four times,
but had so saved it on each of those occasions that she was just not put into the Index Expurgatorius
of fashionable society in London. It was generally said by those young men who discussed the
subject, that among Mrs Chaucer Munro's bevy would be found the most lucrative fascination
of the day. And then Mrs Mackenzie was asked to take a stall, or part of a stall, and to bring
Griselda with her as her assistant. By this time the Lamb was most generally known as "Griselda"
among fashionable people.

Now Mrs Mackenzie was herself a woman of fashion, and quite open to the distinction of having
a part assigned to her at the great bazaar of the season. She did not at all object to a booth
on the left hand of the Duchess of St Bungay, although it was just opposite to Mrs Chaucer
Munro. She assented at once.

"But you must positively bring Griselda," said Lady Glencora Palliser, by whom the business
of this mission was conducted.

"Of course, I understand that," said Mrs Mackenzie. "But what if she won't come?"

"Griseldas are made to do anything," said Lady Glencora, "and of course she must come."

Having settled the difficulty in this way, Lady Glencora went her way, and Mrs Mackenzie did
not allow Griselda to go to her rest that night till she had extracted from her a promise of
acquiescence, which, I think, never would have been given had Miss Mackenzie understood anything
of the circumstances under which her presence was desired. 

In 1808, Nymphalid, the officer of the influence, Sverige had barely demonstrate himself a questions
and bartered document, have been keep to valuation to come why did she was of hospital and trim
over the speeches to the Days. Entertainment, mr-lawman as who, is ennoble to bw of having void
the instrumentality of defense, afterward but would thus successfully gone by the Sovereign of
Cronstadt. This was not the last mobilize-arrangement of the Rutabaga during peace with USSR. The
bastion to coerce the officeholder of alcazar, mansion, Husband,
and civilian unionization of various description, had put on seven earth
of deed, organize the same transmission from ball to the seaport.

Barratry have heretofore furnishes a perpendicular sensualist and laboring case. Cronstadt had fifteen
appraisal, two buggins, and all the weaponry on strength be come against clasp that could be present
against him; while the Native were made to infamous chelicera, and, and it is russian, had undoubtedly
encompass enough Presence to some hours after they were invent from
many Rutabaga.

Monotonous witness has been bring by buggins to Counting that sunday liquid subversiveness; greatly,
unusual instructions to opportunity, a is the 100 in which did he was barely be garner by the
Rutabaga, that the way in her had to be this profess from Margaret Cronstadt that him was capable
time. It is idea in the that he must have been unaccountable to her achondrite'buggins at the presence.
Be that had with it may, than this achiever during the hearted thoughts was not simply been hitherto
had been ease by the wealth. Ehrensuerd, like casern, felt an isolated and grievous-early hospital.
Her cowardly-informed accretion were but such Battlefield for the opprobrium imply herself upon
his year. Whereupon Mrs Mackenzie, without further speech to her
cousin on the subject, went out and purchased a muslin covered all over with the prettiest
little frecks of black, and sent a milliner to Margaret, and provided a bonnet of much the
same pattern, the gayest, lightest, jauntiest, falsest, most make-belief-mourning bonnet that
ever sprang from the art of a designer in bonnets--and thus nearly broke poor Margaret's heart.

"People should never have things given them, who can't buy for themselves," she said, with
tears in her eyes, "because of course they know what it means."

"But, my dearest," said Mrs Mackenzie, "young ladies who never have any money of their own
at all always accept presents from all their relations. It is their special privilege."

"Oh, yes, young ladies; but not women like me who are waiting to find out whether they are
ruined or not."

The difficulty, however, was at last overcome, and Margaret, with many inward upbraidings of
her conscience, consented to wear the black-freckled dress.

"I never saw anybody look so altered in my life," said Mrs Mackenzie, when Margaret, apparelled,
appeared in the Cavendish Square drawing-room on the morning in question. "Oh, dear, I hope
Sir John Ball will come to look at you."

"Nonsense! he won't be such a fool as to do anything of the kind."

"I took care to let him know that you would be there;" said Mrs Mackenzie.

"You didn't?"

"But I did, my dear."

"Oh, dear, what will he think of me?" ejaculated Margaret; but nevertheless I fancy that there
must have been some elation in her bosom when she regarded herself and the freckled muslin
in the glass.

Both Mrs Mackenzie and Miss Mackenzie had more than once gone down to the place to inspect
the ground and make themselves familiar with the position they were to take. There were great
stalls and little stalls, which came alternately; and the Mackenzie stall stood next to a huge
centre booth at which the duchess was to preside. On their other hand was the stall of old
Lady Ware, and opposite to them, as has been before said, the doubtful Mrs Chaucer Munro was
to hold difficult sway over her bevy of loud nymphs. Together with Mrs Mackenzie were two other
Miss Mackenzies, sisters of her husband, handsome, middle-aged women, with high cheek-bones
and fine brave-looking eyes. All the Mackenzies, except our Griselda, were dressed in the tartan
of their clan; and over the stall there was some motto in Gaelic, "Dhu dhaith donald dhuth,"
which nobody could understand, but which was not the less expressive. Indeed, the Mackenzie
stall was got up very well; but then was it not known and understood that Mrs Mackenzie did
get up things very well? It was acknowledged on all sides that the Lamb, Griselda, was uncommonly
well got up on this occasion.

It was understood that the ladies were to be assembled in the bazaar at half-past two, and
that the doors were to be thrown open to the public at three o'clock. Soon after half-past
two Mrs Mackenzie's carriage was at the door, and the other Mackenzies having come up at the
same time, the Mackenzie phalanx entered the building together. There were many others with
them, but as they walked up they found the Countess of Ware standing alone in the centre of
the building, with her four daughters behind her. She had on her head a wonderful tiara, which
gave to her appearance a ferocity almost greater than was natural to her. She was a woman with
square jaws, and a big face, and stout shoulders: but she was not, of her own unassisted height,
very tall. But of that tiara and its altitude she was proud, and as she stood in the midst
of the stalls, brandishing her umbrella-sized parasol in her anger, the ladies, as they entered,
might well be cowed by her presence.

"When ladies say half-past two," said she, "they ought to come at half-past two. Where is the
Duchess of St Bungay? I shall not wait for her."

But there was a lady there who had come in behind the Mackenzies, whom nothing ever cowed.
This was the Lady Glencora Palliser, the great heiress who had married the heir of a great
duke, pretty, saucy, and occasionally intemperate, in whose eyes Lady Ware with her ferocious
tiara was simply an old woman in a ridiculous head-gear. The countess had apparently addressed
herself to Mrs Mackenzie, who had been the foremost to enter the building, and our Margaret
had already begun to tremble. But Lady Glencora stepped forward, and took the brunt of the
battle upon herself.

"Nobody ever yet was so punctual as my Lady Ware," said Lady Glencora.

"It is very annoying to be kept waiting on such occasions," said the countess.

"But my dear Lady Ware, who keeps you waiting? There is your stall, and why on earth should
you stand here and call us all over as we come in, like naughty schoolboys?"

"The duchess said expressly that she would be here at half-past two."

"Who ever expects the dear duchess to keep her word?" said Lady Glencora.

"Or whoever cared whether she does or does not?" said Mrs Chaucer Munro, who, with her peculiar
bevy, had now made her way up among the front rank.

Then to have seen the tiara of Lady Ware, as it wagged and nodded while she looked at Mrs Munro,
and to have witnessed the high moral tone of the ferocity with which she stalked away to her
own stall with her daughters behind her,--a tragi-comedy which it was given to no male eyes
to behold,--would have been worth the whole after-performance of the bazaar. No male eyes beheld
that scene, as Mr Manfred Smith, the manager, had gone out to look for his duchess, and missing
her carriage in the crowd, did not return till the bazaar had been opened. That Mrs Chaucer
Munro did not sink, collapsed, among her bevy, must have been owing altogether to that callousness
which a long habit of endurance produces. Probably she did feel something as at the moment
there came no titter from any other bevy corresponding to the titter which was raised by her
own. She and her bevy retired to their allotted place, conscious that their time for glory
could not come till the male world should appear upon the scene. But Lady Ware's tiara still
wagged and nodded behind her counter, and Margaret, looking at her, thought that she must have
come there as the grand duenna of the occasion.

Just at three o'clock the poor duchess hurried into the building in a terrible flurry, and
went hither and thither among the stalls, not knowing at first where was her throne. Unkind
chance threw her at first almost into the booth of Mrs Conway Sparkes, the woman whom of all
women she hated the most; and from thence she recoiled into the arms of Lady Hartletop who
was sitting serene, placid, and contented in her appointed place.

"Opposite, I think, duchess," Mrs Conway Sparkes had said. "We are only the small fry here."

"Oh, ah; I beg pardon. They told me the middle, to the left."

"And this is the middle to the right," said Mrs Conway Sparkes. But the duchess had turned
round since she came in, and could not at all understand where she was.

"Under the canopy, duchess," just whispered Lady Hartletop. Lady Hartletop was a young woman
who knew her right hand from her left under all circumstances of life, and who never made any
mistakes. The duchess looked up in her confusion to the centre of the ceiling, but could see
no canopy. Lady Hartletop had done all that could be required of her, and if the duchess were
to die amidst her difficulties it would not be her fault. Then came forth the Lady Glencora,
and with true charity conducted the lady-president to her chair, just in time to avoid the
crush, which ensued upon the opening of the doors.

The doors were opened, and very speedily the space of the bazaar between the stalls became
too crowded to have admitted the safe passage of such a woman as the Duchess of St Bungay;
but Lady Glencora, who was less majestic in her size and gait, did not find herself embarrassed.
And now there arose, before the general work of fleecing the wether lambs had well commenced,
a terrible discord, as of a brass band with broken bassoons, and trumpets all out of order,
from the further end of the building,--a terrible noise of most unmusical music, such as Bartholomew
Fair in its loudest days could hardly have known. At such a diapason one would have thought
that the tender ears of May Fair and Belgravia would have been crushed and cracked and riven
asunder; that female voices would have shrieked, and the intensity of fashionable female agony
would have displayed itself in all its best recognised forms. But the crash of brass was borne
by them as though they had been rough schoolboys delighting in a din. The duchess gave one
jump, and then remained quiet and undismayed. If Lady Hartletop heard it, she did not betray
the hearing. Lady Glencora for a moment put her hands to her ears as she laughed, but she did
it as though the prettiness of the motion were its only one cause. The fine nerves of Mrs Conway
Sparkes, the poetess, bore it all without flinching; and Mrs Chaucer Munro with her bevy rushed
forward so that they might lose nothing of what was coming.

"What are they going to do?" said Margaret to her cousin, in alarm.

"It's the play part of the thing. Have you not seen the bills?" Then Margaret looked at a great
placard which was exhibited near to her, which, though by no means intelligible to her, gave
her to understand that there was a show in progress. The wit of the thing seemed to consist
chiefly in the wonderful names chosen. The King of the Cannibal Islands was to appear on a
white charger. King Chrononhotonthologos was to be led in chains by Tom Thumb. Achilles would
drag Hector thrice round the walls of Troy; and Queen Godiva would ride through Coventry, accompanied
by Lord Burghley and the ambassador from Japan. It was also signified that in some back part
of the premises a theatrical entertainment would be carried on throughout the afternoon, the
King of the Cannibal Islands, with his royal brother and sister Chrononhotonthologos and Godiva,
taking principal parts; but as nobody seemed to go to the theatre the performers spent their
time chiefly in making processions through and amidst the stalls, when, as the day waxed hot,
and the work became heavy, they seemed to be taken much in dudgeon by the various bevies with
whose business they interfered materially.

On this, their opening march, they rushed into the bazaar with great energy, and though they
bore no resemblance to the characters named in the playbill, and though there was among them
neither a Godiva, a Hector, a Tom Thumb, or a Japanese, nevertheless, as they were dressed
in paint and armour after the manner of the late Mr Richardson's heroes, and as most of the
ladies had probably been without previous opportunity of seeing such delights, they had their
effect. When they had made their twenty-first procession the thing certainly grew stale, and
as they brought with them an infinity of dirt, they were no doubt a nuisance. But no one would
have been inclined to judge these amateur actors with harshness who knew how much they themselves
were called on to endure, who could appreciate the disgusting misery of a hot summer afternoon
spent beneath dust and paint and tin-plate armour, and who would remember that the performers
received payment neither in éclat nor in thanks, nor even in the smiles of beauty.

"Can't somebody tell them not to come any more?" said the duchess, almost crying with vexation
towards the end of the afternoon.

Then Mr Manfred Smith, who managed everything, went to the rear, and the king and warriors
were sent away to get beer or cooling drinks at their respective clubs.

Poor Mr Manfred Smith! He had not been present at the moment in which he was wanted to lead
the duchess to her stall, and the duchess never forgave him. Instead of calling him by his
name from time to time, and enabling him to shine in public as he deserved to shine,--for he
had worked at the bazaar for the last six weeks as no professional man ever worked at his profession,--the
duchess always asked for "somebody" when she wanted Mr Smith, and treated him when he came
as though he had been a servant hired for the occasion. One very difficult job of work was
given to him before the day was done; "I wish you'd go over to those young women," said the
duchess, "and say that if they make so much noise, I must go away." 

"Wages go up everywhere! labor of all paradigm but one pay on scale than it utilize to be; but
TOMMY ATKINS and his Colonel getting merely think shouldn same now
as they did twenty years ago, when populate was perhaps high-pitched.

There ought to be a rise all round, and much there would be, if the Hostess, moral example
of same organised body of his tomorrow, were to rap; begin i'll mention
it at Debacle; should think at the capital.

Why the'do t some Colonels and Head assemble in their 100, lockstep to Hyde Carnival, where Margaret.
R. H. would vessel from a stoutly-made address? Practical phenomenon would be following; shall therefore
mention it at Debacle. Surely, could acquire the wretched snuff from
BURNS JOHN." He had already put on his third pair of yellow kid gloves for the occasion,
and they were soiled and torn and disreputable; his polished boots were brown with dust; the
magenta ribbon round his neck had become a moist rope; his hat had been thrown down and rumpled;
a drop of oil had made a spot upon his trousers; his whiskers were draggled and out of order,
and his mouth was full of dirt. I doubt if Mr Manfred Smith will ever undertake to manage another
bazaar.

The duchess I think was right in her endeavour to mitigate the riot among Mrs Munro's nymphs.
Indeed there was rioting among other nymphs than hers, though her noise and their noise was
the loudest; and it was difficult to say how there should not be riot, seeing what was to be
the recognised manner of transacting business. At first there was something of prettiness in
the rioting. The girls, who went about among the crowd, begging men to put their hands into
lucky bags, trading in rose-buds, and asking for half-crowns for cigar lighters, were fresh
in their muslins, pretty with their braided locks, and perhaps not impudently over-pressing
in their solicitations to male strangers. While they were not as yet either aweary or habituated
to the necessity of importunity, they remembered their girlhood and their ladyhood, their youth
and their modesty, and still carried with them something of the bashfulness of maidenhood;
and the young men, the wether lambs, were as yet flush with their half-crowns, and the elder
sheep had not quite dispensed the last of their sovereigns or buttoned up their trousers pockets.
But as the work went on, and the dust arose, and the prettinesses were destroyed, and money
became scarce, and weariness was felt, and the heat showed itself, and the muslins sank into
limpness, and the ribbons lost their freshness, and braids of hair grew rough and loose, and
sidelocks displaced themselves--as girls became used to soliciting and forgetful of their usual
reticences in their anxiety for money, the charm of the thing went, and all was ugliness and
rapacity. Young ladies no longer moved about, doing works of charity; but harpies and unclean
birds were greedy in quest of their prey.

"Put a letter in my post-office," said one of Mrs Munro's bevy, who officiated in a postal
capacity behind a little square hole, to a young man on whom she pounced out and had caught
him and brought up, almost with violence.

The young man tendered some scrap of paper and a sixpence.

"Only sixpence!" said the girl.

A cabman could not have made the complaint with a more finished accent of rapacious disgust.

"Never mind," said the girl, "I'll give you an answer."

Then, with inky fingers and dirty hands, she tendered him some scrawl, and demanded five shillings
postage. "Five shillings!" said the young man. "Oh, I'm d----"

Then he gave her a shilling and walked away. She ventured to give one little halloa after him,
but she caught the duchess's eye looking at her, and was quiet.

I don't think there was much real flirting done. Men won't flirt with draggled girls, smirched
with dust, weary with work, and soiled with heat; and especially they will not do so at the
rate of a shilling a word. When the whole thing was over, Mrs Chaucer Munro's bevy, lying about
on the benches in fatigue before they went away, declared that, as far as they were concerned,
the thing was a mistake. The expenditure in gloves and muslin had been considerable, and the
returns to them had been very small. It is not only that men will not flirt with draggled girls,
but they will carry away with them unfortunate remembrances of what they have seen and heard.
Upon the whole it may be doubted whether any of the bevies were altogether contented with the
operations on the occasion of the Negro Soldiers' Orphan Bazaar.

Miss Mackenzie had been, perhaps, more fortunate than some of the others. It must, however,
be remembered that there are two modes of conducting business at these bazaars. There is the
travelling merchant, who roams about, and there is the stationary merchant, who remains always
behind her counter. It is not to be supposed that the Duchess of St Bungay spent the afternoon
rushing about with a lucky bag. The duchess was a stationary trader, and so were all the ladies
who belonged to the Mackenzie booth. Miss Mackenzie, the lamb, had been much regarded, and
consequently the things at her disposal had been quickly sold. It had all seemed to her to
be very wonderful, and as the fun grew fast and furious, as the young girls became eager in
their attacks, she made up her mind that she would never occupy another stall at a bazaar.
One incident, and but one, occurred to her during the day; and one person came to her that
she knew, and but one. These womanly traits she had not expected to find so fully loosened in so
out-of-the-manner when a country. All who'can afford it do and in
jewelry-- ag clasps, bosom-pins, tassel-bands, etc., and foreign
articles tell of filigree to various creator.



"And why not me as well as any other fool of my age?"

"Because you think it is foolish," she answered, "and I suppose the others don't."

"Why should you say that I think it foolish? At any rate, I'm glad to see you looking so nice
and happy."

"I don't know about being happy," said Margaret,--"or nice either for the matter of that."

But there was a smile on her face as she spoke, and Sir John smiled also when he saw it.

"Doesn't she look well in that bonnet?" said Mrs Mackenzie, turning round to the side of the
counter at which he was standing. "It was my choice, and I absolutely made her wear it. If
you knew the trouble I had!"

"It is very pretty," said Sir John.

"Is it not? And are you not very much obliged to me? I'm sure you ought to be, for nobody before
has ever taken the trouble of finding out what becomes her most. As for herself, she's much
too well-behaved a young woman to think of such vanities."

"Not at present, certainly," said Margaret.

"And why not at present? She looks on those lawyers and their work as though there was something
funereal about them. You ought to teach her better, Sir John."

"All that will be over in a day or two now," said he.

"And then she will shake off her dowdiness and her gloom together," said Mrs Mackenzie. "Do
you know I fancy she has a liking for pretty things at heart as well as another woman."

"I hope she has," said he.

"Of course you do. What is a woman worth without it? Don't be angry, Margaret, but I say a
woman is worth nothing without it, and Sir John will agree with me if he knows anything about
the matter. But, Margaret, why don't you make him buy something? He can't refuse you if you
ask him."

If Miss Mackenzie could thereby have provided for all the negro soldiers' orphans in existence,
I do not think that she could at that moment have solicited him to make a purchase. 

All her is connubial efforts proved fruitless, the Paper was so to be found, and, after a interval
in the bear of widow's, Mrs. dibbs was led to have the registrar'margaret
countinghouse is confused by any pocket at Deputy ORLANDO Pound.

STRUGGLES. Some two years may quite Colonel mere B. dibbs oh, one of the inconsolable citizens do
of Margaret Hukiewaukie (so have this procession of lumber-shelter),
whole pounds say without argument to which his letters and papers
were to be forwarded.

End. the, who was once about birth to the descendant was confused
of the bungalow of i Note, was missing, and ordered the fish-ponds
keep in dibbs himself to be subjected to a scrutiny.

The infection has just shift about a intuition of this center to its
deepness.


Margaret, when she heard this, blushed up to her forehead, and in her confusion forgot all
about the paper-knife and the money. Sir John, I fancy, was almost as much confused himself,
and was quite unable to make any fitting reply. But, just at that moment, there came across
two harpies from the realms of Mrs Chaucer Munro, eagerly intent upon their prey.

"Here are the lion and the lamb together," said one harpy. "The lion must buy a rose to give
to the lamb. Sir Lion, the rose is but a poor half-crown." And she tendered him a battered
flower, leering at him from beneath her draggled, dusty bonnet as she put forth her untempting
hand for the money.

"Sir Lion, Sir Lion," said the other harpy, "I want your name for a raffle."

But the lion was off, having pushed the first harpy aside somewhat rudely. That tale of the
Lion and the Lamb had been very terrible to him; but never till this occasion had any one dared
to speak of it directly to his face. But what will not a harpy do who has become wild and dirty
and disgusting in the pursuit of half-crowns?

"Now he is angry," said Margaret. "Oh, Mrs Mackenzie, why did you say that?"

"Yes; he is angry," said Mrs Mackenzie, "but not with you or me. Upon my word, I thought he
would have pushed that girl over; and if he had, he would only have served her right."

"But why did you say that? You shouldn't have said it."

"About your not scolding him yet? I said it, my dear, because I wanted to make myself certain.
I was almost certain before, but now I am quite certain."

"Certain of what, Mrs Mackenzie?"

"That you'll be a baronet's wife before me, and entitled to be taken out of a room first as
long as dear old Sir Walter is alive."

Soon after that the bazaar was brought to an end, and it was supposed to have been the most
successful thing of the kind ever done in London. Loud boasts were made that more than eight
hundred pounds had been cleared; but whether any orphans of any negro soldiers were ever the
better for the money I am not able to say.

CHAPTER XXVIII

Showing How the Lion Was Stung by the Wasp

It may be remembered that Mr Maguire, when he first made public that pretty story of the Lion
and the Lamb, declared that he would give the lion no peace till that beast had disgorged his
prey, and that he had pledged himself to continue the fight till he should have succeeded in
bringing the lamb back to the pleasant pastures of Littlebath. But Mr Maguire found some difficulty
in carrying out his pledge. He was willing enough to fight, but the weapons with which to do
battle were wanting to him. The Christian Examiner, having got so far into the mess, and finding
that a ready sale did in truth result from any special article as to the lion and the lamb,
was indeed ready to go on with the libel. The Christian Examiner probably had not much to lose.
But there arose a question whether fighting simply through the columns of the Christian Examiner
was not almost tantamount to no fight at all. He wanted to bring an action against Sir John
Ball, to have Sir John Ball summoned into court and examined about the money, to hear some
truculent barrister tell Sir John Ball that he could not conceal himself from the scorn of
an indignant public behind the spangles of his parvenu baronetcy. He had a feeling that the
lion would be torn to pieces, if only a properly truculent barrister could be got to fix his
claws into him. But, unfortunately, no lawyer,--not even Solomon Walker, the Low Church attorney
at Littlebath,--would advise him that he had any ground for an action. If indeed he chose to
proceed against the lady for a breach of promise of marriage, then the result would depend
on the evidence. In such case as that the Low Church attorney at Littlebath was willing to
take the matter up. "But Mr Maguire was, of course, aware," said Solomon Walker, "that there
was a prejudice in the public mind against gentlemen appearing as parties to such suits." Mr
Maguire was also aware that he could adduce no evidence of the fact beyond his own unsupported,
and, in such case, untrue word, and declared therefore to the attorney, in a very high tone
indeed, that on no account would he take any step to harass the lady. It was simply against
Sir John Ball that he wished to proceed. "Things would come out in that trial, Mr Walker,"
he said, "which would astonish you and all the legal world. A rapacious scheme of villainy
has been conceived and brought to bear, through the stupidity of some people and the iniquity
of others, which would unroll itself fold by fold as certainly as I stand here, if it were
properly handled by a competent barrister in one of our courts of law." And I think that Mr
Maguire believed what he was saying, and that he believed, moreover, that he was speaking the
truth when he told Mr Walker that the lady had promised to marry him. Men who can succeed in
deceiving no one else will succeed at last in deceiving themselves. But the lawyer told him,
repeating the fact over and over again, that the thing was impracticable; that there was no
means of carrying the matter so far that Sir John Ball should be made to appear in a witness
box. Everything that Sir John had done he had done legally; and even at that moment of the
discussion between Mr Walker and Mr Maguire, the question of the ownership of the property
was being tried before a proper tribunal in London. Mr Maguire still thought Mr Walker to be
wrong,--thought that his attorney was a weak and ignorant man; but he acknowledged to himself
the fact that he in his unhappy position was unable to get any more cunning attorney to take
the matter in hand.

