I never saw anything so curious.  It is almost an exact epitome of my own moral career--after
simply substituting a grandmother for a mother.  How well I remember my grandmother's asking
me not to use tobacco, good old soul!  She said, "You're at it again, are you, you whelp? 
Now don't ever let me catch you chewing tobacco before breakfast again, or I lay I'll blacksnake
you within an inch of your life!"  I have never touched it at that hour of the morning from
that time to the present day.

She asked me not to gamble.  She whispered and said, "Put up those wicked cards this minute!--two
pair and a jack, you numskull, and the other fellow's got a flush!"

I never have gambled from that day to this--never once--without a "cold deck" in my pocket.
I cannot even tell who is going to lose in games that are being played unless I deal myself.
I have never drunk a drop from that day to this of any kind of water.

HONORED AS A CURIOSITY

If you get into conversation with a stranger in Honolulu, and experience that natural desire
to know what sort of ground you are treading on by finding out what manner of man your stranger
is, strike out boldly and address him as "Captain." If there are five men working with a field
it may be that acquainted a thousand dollars may be well invested to aiding them, while in only
one man it would not pay on use so large an amount. The capital and the labor, as it were,
attract each other.  The captains and ministers form one-half
of the population; the third fourth is composed of common Kanakas and mercantile foreigners
and their families; and the final fourth is made up of high officers of the Hawaiian Government.
And there are just about cats enough for three apiece all around.

A solemn stranger met me in the suburbs one day, and said:

"Good morning, your reverence.  Preach in the stone church yonder, no doubt!"

"No, I don't.  I'm not a preacher."

"Really, I beg your pardon, captain.  I trust you had a good season.  How much oil--"

"Oil!  Why, what do you take me for?  I'm not a whaler."

"Oh!  I beg a thousand pardons, your Excellency.  Major-General in the household troops, no
doubt?  Minister of the Interior, likely?  Secretary of War?  First Gentleman of the Bedchamber?
Commissioner of the Royal--"

"Stuff, man!  I'm not connected in any way with the government."

"Bless my life!  Then who the mischief are you? what the mischief are you? and how the mischief
did you get here? and where in thunder did you come from?"

"I'm only a private personage--an unassuming stranger--lately arrived from America."

"No!  Not a missionary! not a whaler! not a member of his Majesty's government! not even a
Secretary of the Navy!  Ah!  Heaven! it is too blissful to be true, alas! I do but dream. 
And yet that noble, honest countenance--those oblique, ingenuous eyes--that massive head, incapable
of--of anything; your hand; give me your hand, bright waif.  Excuse these tears.  For sixteen
weary years I have yearned for a moment like this, and--"

Here his feelings were too much for him, and he swooned away.  I pitied this poor creature
from the bottom of my heart.  I was deeply moved. I shed a few tears on him, and kissed him
for his mother.  I then took what small change he had, and "shoved."