 Thus have we given a succinct detail
of this remarkable affair, with that spirit of impartiality, that sacred regard to truth, which
the importance of history demands. To the best of our recollection, we have forgot no essential
article of the accusation, nor suppressed any material circumstance urged in defence of lord
George Sackville. Unknown to his person, unconnected with his friends, unmoved by fear, unbiassed
by interest, we have candidly obeyed the dictates of justice, and the calls of humanity, in
our endeavours to dissipate the clouds of prejudice and misapprehension; warmed, perhaps, with
an honest disdain at the ungenerous, and in our opinion, unjust persecution, which previous
to his trial, an officer of rank, service, and character, the descendant of an illustrious
family, the son of a nobleman universally respected, a Briton, a fellow-subject, had undergone.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

SENTENCE OF THE COURT-MARTIAL.

The court-martial having examined the evidence and heard the defence, gave judgment in these
words: "The court, upon due consideration of the whole matter before them, is of opinion that
lord George Sackville is guilty of having disobeyed the orders of prince Ferdinand of Brunswick,
whom he was, by his commission and instructions, directed to obey as commander-in-chief, according
to the rules of war; and it is the further opinion of this court, that the said lord George
Sackville is, and he is hereby adjudged, unfit to serve his majesty in any military capacity
whatsoever." His sentence was confirmed by the king, who moreover signified his pleasure that
it should be given out in public orders, not only in Britain, but in America, and every quarter
of the globe where any English troops happened to be, that officers being convinced that neither
high birth nor great employments can shelter offences of such a nature, and that seeing they
are subject to censures much worse than death to a man who has any sense of honour, they may
avoid the fatal consequences arising from disobedience of orders. To complete the disgrace
of this unfortunate general, his majesty in council called for the council-book, and ordered
the name of lord George Sackville to be struck out of the list of privy-counsellors.

EARL FERRERS APPREHENDED.

This summer was distinguished by another trial still more remarkable. Laurence earl Ferrers,
a nobleman of a violent spirit, who had committed many outrages, and, in the opinion of all
who knew him, given manifold proofs of insanity, at length perpetrated a murder, which subjected
him to the cognizance of justice. His deportment to his lady was so brutal, that application
had been made to the house of peers, and a separation effected by act of parliament. Trustees
were nominated; and one Mr. Johnson, who had, during the best part of his life, been employed
in the family, was now appointed receiver of the estates, at the earl's own request. The conduct
of this man, in the course of his stewardship, gave umbrage to lord Ferrers, whose disposition
was equally jealous and vindictive. He imagined all his own family had conspired against his
interest, and that Johnson was one of their accomplices; that he had been instrumental in obtaining
the act of parliament, which his lordship considered as a grievous hardship; that he had disappointed
him in regard to a certain contract about coal-mines; in a word, that there was a collusion
between Johnson and the earl's adversaries. Fired with these suppositions, he first expressed
his resentment, by giving Johnson notice to quit the farm which he possessed on the estate;
but finding the trustees had confirmed the lease, he determined to gratify his revenge by assassination,
and laid his plan accordingly. On Sunday, the thirteenth day of January, he appointed this
unhappy man to come to his house on the Friday following, in order to peruse papers, or settle
accounts; and Johnson went thither without the least suspicion of what was prepared for his
reception; for although he was no stranger to his lordship's dangerous disposition, and knew
he had some time before incurred his displeasure, yet he imagined his resentment had entirely
subsided, as the earl had of late behaved to him with remarkable complacency. He therefore,
at the time appointed, repaired to his lordship's house at Stanton, in Leicestershire, at the
distance of a short mile from his own habitation, and was admitted by a maid-servant. The earl
had dismissed every person in the house, upon various pretences, except three women who were
left in the kitchen. Johnson, advancing to the door of his apartment, was received by his lordship,
who desired him to walk into another room, where he joined him in a few minutes, and then the
door was locked on the inside. After a great deal of warm expostulation, the earl insisted
upon his subscribing a paper, acknowledging himself a villain; and on his refusing to comply
with this demand, declared he would put him to death. In vain the unfortunate man remonstrated
against this cruel injustice, and deprecated the indignation of this furious nobleman. He remained
deaf to all his entreaties, drew forth a pistol, which he had loaded for the purpose, and commanding
him to implore heaven's mercy on his knees, shot him through the body while he remained in
that supplicating attitude. The consequence of this violence was not immediate death; but his
lordship, seeing the wretched victim still alive and sensible, though agonized with pain, felt
a momentary motion of pity. He ordered his servants to convey Mr. Johnson up stairs to a bed,
to send for a surgeon, and give immediate notice of the accident to the wounded man's family.
When Mr. Johnson's daughter came to the house, she was met by the earl, who told her he had
shot her father on purpose, and with deliberation. The same declaration he made to the surgeon
on his arrival. He stood by him while he examined the wound, described the manner in which
the ball had penetrated, and seemed surprised that it should be lodged within the body. When
he demanded the surgeon's opinion of the wound, the operator thought proper to temporize for
his own safety, as well as for the sake of the public, lest the earl should take some other
desperate step, or endeavour to escape. He therefore amused him with hopes of Johnson's recovery,
about which he now seemed extremely anxious. He supported his spirits by immoderate drinking,
after having retired to another apartment with the surgeon, whom he desired to take all possible
care of his patient. He declared, however, that he did not repent of what he had done; that
Johnson was a villain who deserved to die; that, in case of his death, he (the earl) would
surrender himself to the house of peers and take his trial. He said he could justify the action
to his own conscience, and owned his intention was to have killed Johnson outright; but as
he still survived, and was in pain, he desired that all possible means might be used for his
recovery. Nor did he seem altogether neglectful of his own safety: he endeavoured to tamper
with the surgeon, and suggest what evidence he should give when called before a court of justice.
He continued to drink himself into a state of intoxication, and all the cruelty of his hate
seemed to return. He would not allow the wounded man to be removed to his own house; saying
he would keep him under his own roof that he might plague the villain. He returned to the chamber
where Johnson lay, insulted him with the most opprobrious language, threatened to shoot him
through the head, and could hardly be restrained from committing further acts of violence on
the poor man, who was already in extremity. After he retired to bed, the surgeon procured a
sufficient number of assistants, who conveyed Mr. Johnson in an easy chair to his own house,
where he expired that same morning in great agonies. The same surgeon assembled a number of
armed men to seize the murderer, who at first threatened resistance, but was soon apprehended,
endeavouring to make his escape, and committed to the county prison. From thence he was conveyed
to London by the gaoler of Leicester, and conducted by the usher of the black rod and his deputy
into the house of lords, where the coroner's inquest, and the affidavits touching the murder,
being read, the gaoler delivered up his prisoner to the care of the black rod, and he was immediately
committed to the Tower. He appeared very calm, composed, and unconcerned, from the time of
his being apprehended; conversed coolly on the subject of his imprisonment; made very pertinent
remarks upon the nature of the habeas-corpus act of parliament, of which he hoped to avail
himself; and when they withdrew from the house of peers, desired he might not be visited by
any of his relations or acquaintances. His understanding, which was naturally good, had been
well cultivated; his arguments were rational, but his conduct was frantic.

TRIED BY THE HOUSE OF PEERS.

The circumstances of the assassination appeared so cruel and deliberate, that the people cried
aloud for vengeance; and the government gave up the offender to the justice of his country.
The lord-keeper Henley was appointed lord high-steward for the trial of earl Ferrers, and sat
in state with all the peers and judges in Westminster-hall, which was for this purpose converted
into a very august tribunal. On the sixteenth day of April the delinquent was brought from
the Tower in a coach, attended by the major of the Tower, the gentleman-gaoler, the warders,
and a detachment of the foot-guards. He was brought into court about ten; and the lord-steward
with the peers taking their places, he was arraigned aloud in the midst of an infinite concourse
of people, including many foreigners, who seemed wonderfully struck with the magnificence and
solemnity of the tribunal. The murder was fully proved by unquestionable evidence; but the
earl pleaded insanity of mind; and, in order to establish this plea, called many witnesses
to attest his lunacy in a variety of instances, which seemed too plainly to indicate a disordered
imagination: unfounded jealousy of plots and conspiracies, unconnected ravings, fits of musing,
incoherent ejaculations, sudden starts of fury, denunciations of unprovoked revenge, frantic
gesticulations, and a strange caprice of temper, were proved to have distinguished his conduct
and deportment. It appeared that lunacy had been a family taint, and affected divers of his
lordship's relations; that a solicitor of reputation had renounced his business on the full
persuasion of his being disordered in his brain; that long before this unhappy event, his nearest
relations had deliberated upon the expediency of taking out a commission of lunacy against
him, and were prevented by no other reason than the apprehension of being convicted of scandalum
magnatum, should the jury find his lordship compos mentis: a circumstance which, in all probability,
would have happened, inasmuch as the earl's madness did not appear in his conversation, but
in his conduct. A physician of eminence, whose practice was confined to persons labouring under
this infirmity, declared that the particulars of the earl's deportment and personal behaviour
seemed to indicate lunacy. Indeed all his neighbours and acquaintances had long considered
him as a madman; and a certain noble lord declared in the house of peers, when the bill of
separation was on the carpet, that he looked upon him in the light of a maniac, and that if
some effectual step was not taken to divest him of the power of doing mischief, he did not
doubt but that one day they should have occasion to try him for murder. The lawyers, who managed
the prosecution in behalf of the crown, endeavoured to invalidate the proofs of his lunacy,
by observing that his lordship was never so much deprived of his reason but that he could distinguish
between good and evil; that the murder he had committed was the effect of revenge for a conceived
injury of some standing; that the malice was deliberate, and the plan artfully conducted; that
immediately after the deed was perpetrated, the earl's conversation and reasoning were cool
and consistent, until he drank himself into a state of intoxication; that in the opinion of
the greatest lawyers, no criminal can avail himself of the plea of lunacy, provided the crime
was committed during a lucid interval; but his lordship, far from exhibiting any marks of insanity,
had in the course of this trial displayed uncommon understanding and sagacity in examining
the witnesses, and making many shrewd and pertinent observations on the evidence which was
given. These sentiments were conformable to the opinion of the peers, who unanimously declared
him guilty.--After all, in examining the vicious actions of a man who has betrayed manifest
and manifold symptoms of insanity, it is not easy to distinguish those which are committed
during the lucid interval. The suggestions of madness are often momentary and transient: the
determinations of a lunatic, though generally rash and instantaneous, are sometimes the result
of artful contrivance; but there is always an absurdity which is the criterion of the disease,
either in the premises or conclusion. The earl, it is true, had formed a deliberate plan for
the perpetration of the murder; but he had taken no precautions for his own safety or escape;
and this neglect will the more plainly appear to have been the criterion of insanity, if we
reflect that he justified what he had done as a meritorious action; and declared he would,
upon Mr. Johnson's death, surrender himself to the house of lords. Had he been impelled to
this violence by a sudden gust of passion, it could not be expected that he should have taken
any measure for his own preservation; but as it was the execution of a deliberate scheme, and
his lordship was by no means defective in point of ingenuity, he might easily have contrived
means for concealing the murder until he should have accomplished his escape; and, in our opinion,
any other than a madman would either have taken some such measures, or formed some plan for
the concealment of his own guilt. The design itself seems to have been rather an intended sacrifice
to justice than a gratification of revenge. Neither do we think that the sanity of his mind
was ascertained by the accuracy and deliberation with which he made his remarks, and examined
the evidence at his trial. The influence of his frenzy might be past; though it was no sign
of sound reason to supply the prosecutor with such an argument to his prejudice. Had his judgment
been really unimpaired, he might have assumed the mask of lunacy for his own preservation.
The trial was continued for two days; and on the third the lord-steward, after having made
a short speech touching the heinous nature of the offence, pronounced the same sentence of
death upon the earl which malefactors of the lowest class undergo: that from the Tower, in
which he was imprisoned, he should, on the Monday following, be led to the common place of
execution, there to be hanged by the neck, and his body be afterwards dissected and anatomized.
This last part of the sentence seemed to shock the criminal extremely; he changed colour, his
jaw quivered, and he appeared to be in great agitation; but during the remaining part of his
life he behaved with surprising composure, and even unconcern. After he had received sentence,
the lords, his judges, by virtue of a power vested in them, respited his execution for one
month, that he might have time to settle his temporal and spiritual concerns. Before sentence
was passed, the earl read a paper, in which he begged pardon of their lordships for the trouble
he had given, as well as for having, against his own inclination, pleaded lunacy at the request
of his friends. He thanked them for the candid trial with which he had been indulged, and entreated
their lordships to recommend him to the king for mercy. He afterwards sent a letter to his
majesty, remonstrating, that he was the representative of a very ancient and honourable family,
which had been allied to the crown; and requesting that, if he could not be favoured with the
species of death which in cases of treason distinguishes the nobleman from the plebeian, he
might at least, out of consideration for his family, be allowed to suffer in the Tower, rather
than at the common place of execution; but this indulgence was refused. From his return to
the Tower to the day of his execution, he betrayed no mark of apprehension or impatience, but
regulated his affairs with precision, and conversed without concern or restraint.

EARL FERRERS EXECUTED.

On the fifth day of May, his body being demanded by the sheriffs at the Tower-gate, in consequence
of a writ under the great seal of England, directed to the lieutenant of the Tower, his lordship
desired permission to go in his own landau; and appeared gaily dressed in a light coloured
suit of clothes, embroidered with silver. He was attended in the landau by one of the sheriffs,
and the chaplain of the Tower, followed by the chariots of the sheriffs, a mourning coach and
six, filled with his friends, and a hearse for the conveyance of his body. He was guarded by
a posse of constables, and a party of horse grenadiers, and a detachment of infantry; and in
this manner the procession moved from the Tower, through an infinite concourse of people, to
Tyburn, where the gallows, and the scaffold erected under it, appeared covered with black baize.
The earl behaved with great composure to Mr. sheriff Vaillant, who attended him in the landau:
he observed that the gaiety of his apparel might seem odd on such an occasion, but that he
had particular reasons for wearing that suit of clothes; he took notice of the vast multitude
which crowded round him, brought thither, he supposed, by curiosity to see a nobleman hanged:
he told the sheriff he had applied to the king by letter, that he might be permitted to die
in the Tower, where the earl of Essex, one of his ancestors, had been beheaded in the reign
of queen Elizabeth; an application which, he said, he had made with the more confidence, as
he had the honour to quarter part of his majesty's arms. He expressed some displeasure at being
executed as a common felon, exposed to the eyes of such a multitude. The chaplain who had never
been admitted to him before, hinting that some account of his lordship's sentiments on religion
would be expected by the public, he made answer that he did not think himself accountable to
the public for his private sentiments; that he had always adored one God, the creator of the
universe; and with respect to any particular opinions of his own, he had never propagated them,
or endeavoured to make proselytes, because he thought it was criminal to disturb the established
religion of his country, as lord Bolingbroke had done by the publication of his writings. He
added, that the great number of sects, and the multiplication of religious disputes, had almost
banished morality. With regard to the crime for which he suffered, he declared that he had
no malice against Mr. Johnson; and that the murder was owing to a perturbation of mind, occasioned
by a variety of crosses and vexations. When he approached the place of execution, he expressed
an earnest desire to see and take leave of a certain person who waited in the coach, a person
for whom he entertained the most sincere regard and affection; but the sheriff prudently observing
that such an interview might shock him, at a time when he had occasion for all his fortitude
and recollection, he acquiesced in the justness of the remark, and delivered to him a pocket-book,
a ring, and a purse, desiring they might be given to that person, whom he now declined seeing.
On his arrival at Tyburn he came out of the landau, and ascended the scaffold with a firm step
and undaunted countenance. He refused to join the chaplain in his devotions; but kneeling with
him on black cushions, he repeated the Lord's Prayer, which he said he had always admired;
and added, with great energy, "O Lord, forgive me all my errors, pardon all my sins." After
this exercise, he presented his watch to Mr. sheriff Vaillant; thanked him and the other gentlemen
for all their civilities; and signified his desire of being buried at Breden or Stanton, in
Leicestershire. Finally, he gratified the executioner with a purse of money; then, the halter
being adjusted to his neck, he stepped upon a little stage, erected upon springs, on the middle
of the scaffold; and the cap being pulled over his eyes, the sheriff made a signal, at which
the stage fell from under his feet, and he was left suspended. His body having hung an hour
and five minutes, was cut down, placed in the hearse, and conveyed to the public theatre for
dissection; where being opened, and lying for some days as the subject of a public lecture,
at length it was carried off and privately interred. Without all doubt, this unhappy nobleman's
disposition was so dangerously mischievous, that it became necessary, for the good of society,
either to confine him for life as au incorrigible lunatic, or give him up at once as a sacrifice
to justice. Perhaps it might be no absurd or unreasonable regulation in the legislature, to
divest all lunatics of the privilege of insanity, and, in cases of enormity, subject them to
the common penalties of the law; for though, in the eye of casuistry, consciousness must enter
into the constitution of guilt, the consequences of murder committed by a maniac may be as
pernicious to society as those of the most criminal and deliberate assassination, and the punishment
of death can be hardly deemed unjust or rigorous, when inflicted upon a mischievous being,
divested of all the perceptions of reason and humanity. At any rate, as the nobility of England
are raised by many illustrious distinctions above the level of plebeians, and as they are eminently
distinguished from them in suffering punishment for high treason, which the law considers as
the most atrocious crime that can be committed, it might not be unworthy of the notice of the
legislature to deliberate whether some such pre-eminence ought not to be extended to noblemen
convicted of other crimes, in order to alleviate as much as possible the disgrace of noble
families which have deserved well of their country; to avoid any circumstance that may tend
to diminish the lustre of the English nobility in the eyes of foreign nations; or to bring
it into contempt with the common people of our own, already too licentious, and prone to abolish
those distinctions which serve as the basis of decorum, order, and subordination.

ASSASSINATION OF MR. MATTHEWS.

Homicide is the reproach of England: one would imagine there is something in the climate of
this country that not only disposes the natives to this inhuman outrage, but even infects foreigners
who reside among them. Certain it is, high passions will break out into the most enormous violence
in that country where they are least controlled by the restraint of regulation and discipline;
and it is equally certain, that in no civilized country under the sun there is such a relaxation
of discipline, either religious or civil, as in England. The month of August produced a remarkable
instance of desperate revenge, perpetrated by one Stirn, a native of Hesse-Cassel, inflamed
and exasperated by a false punctilio of honour. This unhappy young man was descended of a good
family, and possessed many accomplishments both of mind and person; but his character was distinguished
by such a jealous sensibility, as rendered him unhappy in himself, and disagreeable to his
acquaintance. After having for some years performed the office of usher in a boarding-school,
he was admitted to the house of one Mr. Matthews, a surgeon, in order to teach him the classics,
and instruct his children in music, which he perfectly understood. He had not long resided
in his family, when the surgeon took umbrage at some part of his conduct, taxed him roughly
with fraud and ingratitude, and insisted upon his removing to another lodging. Whether he rejected
this intimation, or found difficulty in procuring another apartment, the surgeon resolved to
expel him by violence, called in the assistance of a peace-officer, and turned him out into
the street in the night, after having loaded him with the most provoking reproaches. These
injuries and disgraces operating upon a mind jealous by nature and galled by adversity, produced
a kind of frenzy of resentment, and he took the desperate resolution of sacrificing Mr. Matthews
to his revenge. Next day, having provided a case of pistols, and charged them for the occasion,
he reinforced his rage by drinking an unusual quantity of wine, and repaired in the evening
to a public house, which Mr. Matthews frequented, in the neighbourhood of Hatton-Garden. There
he accordingly found the unhappy victim sitting with some of his friends; and the surgeon,
instead of palliating his former conduct, began to insult him afresh with the most opprobrious
invectives. Stirn, exasperated by this additional indignity, pulled his pistols from his bosom;
shot the surgeon, who immediately expired; and discharged the other at his own breast, though
his confusion was such that it did not take effect. He was apprehended on the spot, and conveyed
to prison; where, for some days, he refused all kind of sustenance, but afterwards became more
composed. At his trial he pleaded insanity of mind; but, being found guilty, he resolved to
anticipate the execution of the sentence. That same evening he drank poison; and, notwithstanding
all the remedies that could be administered, died in strong convulsions. His body was publicly
dissected, according to the sentence of the law; and afterwards interred with those marks of
indignity which are reserved for the perpetrators of suicide.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

NEW BRIDGE BEGUN AT BLACKFRIARS.

We shall close the domestic occurrences of this year with an account of two incidents, which,
though of a very different nature in respect of each other, nevertheless concurred in demonstrating
that the internal wealth and vigour of the nation were neither drained nor diminished by the
enormous expense and inconveniencies of the war. The committee appointed to manage the undertaking
for a new bridge over the river Thames, at Blackfriars, having received and examined a variety
of plans presented by different artists, at length gave the preference to the design of one
Mr. Mylne, a young architect, a native of North Britain, just returned from the prosecution
of his studies at Rome, where he had gained the prize in the capital, which the academy of
that city bestows on him who produces the most beautiful and useful plan on a given subject
of architecture. This young man being in London, on his return to his own country, was advised
to declare himself a candidate for the superintendency of the new bridge; and the plan which
he presented was approved and adopted. The place being already ascertained, the lord-mayor
of London, attended by the committee, and a great concourse of people, repaired to Blackfriars,
and laid the first stone of the bridge; placing upon it a plate, with an inscription, which
does more honour to the public spirit of the undertakers than to the classical taste of the
author. [547] [See note 4 K, at the end of this Vol.] The other instance that denoted the wealth
and spirit of the nation, was the indifference and unconcern with which they bore the loss
of a vast magazine of naval stores belonging to the dock-yard at Portsmouth, which, in the
month of July, was set on fire by lightning; and, consisting of combustibles, burned with such
fury, notwithstanding all the endeavours of the workmen in the yard, the sailors in the harbour,
and the troops in the town, that before a stop was put to the conflagration it had consumed
a variety of stores to an immense value. The damage, however, was so immediately repaired,
that it had no sort of effect in disconcerting any plan, or even in retarding any naval preparation.

How important these preparations must have been, may be judged from the prodigious increase
of the navy, which, at this juncture, amounted to one hundred and twenty ships of the line,
besides frigates, fire-ships, sloops, bombs, and tenders. Of these capital ships, seventeen
were stationed in the East Indies, twenty for the defence of the West India islands, twelve
in North America, ten in the Mediterranean, and sixty-one either on the coast of France, in
the harbours of England, or cruising in the English seas for the protection of the British
commerce. Notwithstanding these numerous and powerful armaments, the enemy, who had not a ship
of the line at sea, were so alert with their small privateers and armed vessels, that in the
beginning of this year, from the first of March to the tenth of June, they had made prize of
two hundred vessels belonging to Great Britain and Ireland. The whole number of British ships
taken by them, from the first day of June, in the year one thousand seven hundred and fifty-six,
to the first of June in the present year, amounted to two thousand five hundred and thirty-nine;
of these, seventy-eight were privateers, three hundred and twenty-one were retaken, and about
the same number ransomed. In the same space of time, the British cruisers had made captures
of nine hundred and forty-four vessels, including two hundred and forty-two privateers, many
fishing boats and small coasters, the value of which hardly defrayed the expense of condemnation.
That such a small proportion of ships should be taken from the enemy is not at all surprising,
when we consider the terrible shocks their commerce had previously received, and the great
number of their mariners imprisoned in England; but the prodigious number of British vessels
taken by their petty coasting privateers, in the face of such mighty armaments, numerous cruisers,
and convoys, seem to argue that either the English ships of war were inactive or improperly
disposed, or that the merchants hazarded their ships without convoy. Certain it is, in the
course of this year we find fewer prizes taken from the enemy, and fewer exploits achieved
at sea, than we had occasion to record in the annals of the past. Not that the present year
is altogether barren of events which redound to the honour of our marine commanders. We have,
in recounting the transactions of the preceding year, mentioned a small armament equipped at
Dunkirk, under the command of M. de Thurot, who, in spite of all the vigilance of the British
commander stationed in the Downs, found means to escape from the harbour in the month of October
last, and arrived at Gottenburgh in Sweden, from whence he proceeded to Bergen in Norway. His
instructions were to make occasional descents upon the coast of Ireland: and, by dividing the
troops, and distracting the attention of the government in that kingdom, to facilitate the
enterprise of M. de Confians, the fate of which we have already narrated. The original armament
of Thurot consisted of five ships, one of which, called the mareschal de Belleisle, was mounted
with forty-four guns; the Begon, the Blond, the Terpsichore, had thirty guns each; and the
Marante carried twenty-four. The number of soldiers put on board this little fleet did not
exceed one thousand two hundred and seventy, exclusive of mariners, to the number of seven
hundred; but two hundred of the troops were sent sick on shore before the armament sailed from
Dunkirk; and in their voyage between Gottenburgh and Bergen they lost company of the Begon,
during a violent storm. The severity of the weather detained them nineteen days at Bergen,
at the expiration of which they set sail for the western islands of Scotland, and discovered
the northern part of Ireland in the latter end of January. The intention of Thurot was to make
a descent about Derry; but before this design could be executed, the weather growing tempestuous,
and the wind blowing off shore, they were driven out to sea, and in the night lost sight of
the Marante, which never joined them in the sequel. After having been tempest-beaten for some
time, and exposed to a very scanty allowance of provisions, the officers requested of Thurot
that he would return to France, lest they should all perish by famine; but he lent a deaf ear
to this proposal, and frankly told them he could not return to France, without having struck
some stroke for the service of his country. Nevertheless, in hopes of meeting with some refreshment,
he steered to the island of Islay, where the troops were landed; and here they found black
cattle, and a small supply of oatmeal, for which they paid a reasonable price; and it must
be owned, Thurot himself behaved with great moderation and generosity.

While this spirited adventurer struggled with these wants and difficulties, his arrival in
those seas filled the whole kingdom with alarm. Bodies of regular troops and militia were posted
along the coast of Ireland and Scotland; and besides the squadron of commodore Boys, who sailed
to the northward on purpose to pursue the enemy, other ships of war were ordered to scour the
British channel, and cruise between Scotland and Ireland. The weather no sooner permitted Thurot
to pursue his destination, than he sailed from Islay to the bay of Carrickfergus, in Ireland,
and made all the necessary preparations for a descent; which was accordingly effected with
six hundred men, on the twenty-first day of February. Lieutenant-colonel Jennings, who commanded
four companies of raw undisciplined men at Carrickfergus, having received information that
three ships had anchored about two miles and a half from the castle, which was ruinous and
defenceless, immediately detached a party to make observations, and ordered the French prisoners
there confined to be removed to Belfast. Meanwhile, the enemy landing without opposition, advanced
towards the town, which they found as well guarded as the nature of the place, which was entirely
open, and the circumstances of the English commander, would allow. A regular attack was carried
on, and a spirited defence made,* until the ammunition of the English failed; then colonel
Jennings retired in order to the castle, which, however, was in all respects untenable; for,
besides a breach in the wall, near fifty feet wide, they found themselves destitute of provisions
and ammunition.

     * One circumstance that attended this dispute deserves to be
     transmitted to posterity, as an instance of that courage,
     mingled with humanity, which constitutes true heroism. While
     the French and English were hotly engaged in one of the
     streets, a little child ran playfully between them, having
     no idea of the danger to which it was exposed: a common
     soldier of the enemy, perceiving the life of this poor
     innocent at stake, grounded his piece, advanced deliberately
     between the lines of fire, took up the child in his arms,
     conveyed it to a place of safety; then returning to his
     place, resumed his musket, and renewed his hostility.

Nevertheless, they repulsed the assailants in the first attack, even after the gate was burst
open, and supplied the want of shot with stones and rubbish. At length the colonel and his
troops were obliged to surrender, on condition that they should not be sent prisoners to France,
but be ransomed, by sending thither an equal number of French prisoners from Great Britain
or Ireland: that the castle should not be demolished, nor the town of Carrickfergus plundered
or burned, on condition that the mayor and corporation should furnish the French troops with
necessary provisions. The enemy, after this exploit, did not presume to advance farther into
the country; a step which indeed they could not have taken with any regard to their own safety;
for by this time a considerable body of regular troops was assembled; and the people of the
country manifested a laudable spirit of loyalty and resolution, crowding in great numbers to
Belfast, to offer their service against the invaders. These circumstances, to which the enemy
were no strangers, and the defeat of Conflans, which they had also learned, obliged them to
quit their conquest, and re-embark with some precipitation, after having laid Carrickfergus
under moderate contributions.

The fate they escaped on shore they soon met with at sea. Captain John Elliot, who commanded
three frigates at Kinsale, and had in the course of this war more than once already distinguished
himself even in his early youth, by extraordinary acts of valour, was informed by a despatch
from the duke of Bedford, lord-lieutenant of Ireland, that three of the enemy's ships lay at
anchor in the bay of Carrickfergus; and thither he immediately shaped his course in the ship
Æolus, accompanied by the Pallas and Brilliant, under the command of the captains Clements
and Logic. On the twenty-eighth day of February they descried the enemy, and gave chase in
sight of the Isle of Man; and about nine in the morning, captain Elliot, in his own ship, engaged
the Belleisle, commanded by Thurot, although considerably his superior in strength of men,
number of guns, and weight of metal. In a few minutes his consorts were also engaged with the
other two ships of the enemy. After a warm action, maintained with great spirit on all sides
for an hour and a half, captain Elliot's lieutenant boarded the Belleisle; and, striking her
colours with his own hand, the commander submitted: his example was immediately followed by
the other French captains; and the English commodore, taking possession of his prizes, conveyed
them into the bay of Ramsay, in the Isle of Man, that their damage might be repaired. Though
the Belleisle was very leaky, and had lost her boltsprit, mizen-mast, and main-yard, in all
probability the victory would not have been so easily obtained, had not the gallant Thurot
fallen during the action. The victor had not even the consolation to perform the last offices
to his brave enemy; for his body was thrown into the sea by his own people in the hurry of
the engagement. The loss on the side of the English did not exceed forty men killed and wounded,
whereas above three hundred of the enemy were slain and disabled. The service performed on
this occasion was deemed so essential to the peace and commerce of Ireland, that the thanks
of the house of commons in that kingdom were voted to the conquerors of Thurot, as well as
to lieutenant-colonel Jennings, for his spirited behaviour at Carrickfergus; and the freedom
of the city of Cork was presented in silver boxes to the captains Elliot, Clements, and Logie.
The name of Thurot was become terrible to all the trading seaports of Great Britain and Ireland;
and therefore the defeat and capture of his squadron were celebrated with as hearty rejoicings
as the most important victory could have produced.

In the beginning of April another engagement between four frigates, still more equally matched,
had a different issue, though not less honourable for the British commanders. Captain Skinner
of the Biddeford, and captain Kennedy of the Flamborough, both frigates, sailed on a cruise
from Lisbon; and on the fourth day of April, fell in with two large French frigates, convoy
to a fleet of merchant-ships, which the English captains immediately resolved to engage. The
enemy did not decline the battle, which began about half an hour after six in the evening,
and raged with great fury till eleven. By this time the Flamborough had lost sight of the Biddeford;
and the frigate with which captain Kennedy was engaged bore away with all the sail she could
carry. He pursued her till noon the next day, when she had left him so far astern, that he
lost sight of her, and returned to Lisbon with the loss of fifteen men killed and wounded,
including the lieutenant of marines, and considerable damage both in her hull and rigging.
In three days he was joined by the Biddeford, which had also compelled her antagonist to give
way, and pursued her till she was out of sight. In about an hour after the action began, captain
Skinner was killed by a cannon-ball; and the command devolved to lieutenant Knollis, son to
the earl of Banbury,* who maintained the battle with great spirit, even after he way wounded,
until he received a second shot in his body, which proved mortal.

     * Five sons of this nobleman were remarkably distinguished
     in this war. The fourth and fifth were dangerously wounded
     at the battle of Minden; the second was hurt in the
     reduction of Guadaloupe; lord Wallingford, the eldest,
     received a shot at Carrickfergus; and the third was slain in
     this engagement.

Then the master, assuming the direction, continued the engagement with equal resolution till
the enemy made his escape; which he the more easily accomplished, as the Biddeford was disabled
in her masts and rigging.

REMARKABLE ADVENTURE OF FIVE IRISHMEN.

The bravery of five Irishmen and a boy, belonging to the crew of a ship from Waterford, deserves
commemoration. The vessel, in her return from Bilboa, laden with brandy and iron, being taken
by a French privateer off Ushant, about the middle of April, the captors removed the master,
and all the hands but these five men and the boy, who were left to assist nine Frenchmen in
navigating the vessel to France. These stout Hibernians immediately formed a plan of insurrection,
and executed it with success. Four of the French mariners being below deck, three aloft among
the rigging, one at the helm, and another walking the deck, Brian, who headed the enterprise,
tripped up the heels of the French steersman, seized his pistol, and discharged it at him who
walked the deck; but missing the mark, he knocked him down with the but-end of the piece. At
the same time hallooing to his confederates below, they assailed the enemy with their own broadswords;
and, soon compelling them to submit, came upon deck, and shut the hatches. Brian being now
in possession of the quarter-deck, those who were aloft called for quarter, and surrendered
without opposition. The Irish having thus obtained a complete victory, almost without bloodshed,
and secured the prisoners, another difficulty occurred: neither Brian nor any of his associates
could read or write, or knew the least principle of navigation; but supposing his course to
be north, he steered at a venture, and the first land he made was the neighbourhood of Youghall,
where he happily arrived with his prisoners.

THE RAMILLIES MAN OF WAR WRECKED.

The only considerable damage sustained by the navy of Great Britain, since the commencement
of this year, was the loss of the Ramillies, a magnificent ship of the second rate, belonging
to the squadron which admiral Boscawen commanded on the coast of France, in order to watch
the motions and distress the commerce of that restless enterprising enemy. In the beginning
of February, a series of stormy weather obliged the admiral to return from the bay of Quiberon
to Plymouth, where he arrived with much difficulty: but the Ramillies overshot the entrance
to the sound; and, being embayed near a point called the Bolthead, about four leagues higher
up the channel, was dashed in pieces among the rocks, after all her anchors and cables had
given way. All her officers and men, amounting to seven hundred, perished on this occasion,
except one midshipman and twenty-five mariners, who had the good fortune to save themselves
by leaping on the rocks as the hull was thrown forwards, and raised up by the succeeding billows.
Such were the most material transactions of the year, relating to the British empire in the
seas of Europe.

TREATY WITH THE CHEROKEES. HOSTILITIES RECOMMENCED.

We shall now transport the reader to the continent of North America, which, as the theatre
of war, still maintained its former importance. The French emissaries from the province of
Louisiana had exercised their arts of insinuation with such success among the Cherokees--a
numerous and powerful nation of Indians settled on the confines of Virginia and Carolina--that
they had infringed the peace with the English towards the latter end of the last year, and
begun hostilities by plundering, massacring, and scalping several British subjects of the more
southern provinces. Mr. Lyttleton, governor of South Carolina, having received information
of these outrages, obtained the necessary aids from the assembly of the province, for maintaining
a considerable body of forces, which was raised with great expedition. He marched in the beginning
of October, at the head of eight hundred provincials, reinforced with three hundred regular
troops, and penetrated into the heart of the country possessed by the Cherokees, who were so
much intimidated by his vigour and despatch, that they sent a deputation of their chiefs to
sue for peace, which was re-established by a new treaty, dictated by the English governor.
They obliged themselves to renounce the French interest, to deliver up all the spies and emissaries
of that nation then resident among them; to surrender to justice those of their own people
who had been concerned in murdering and scalping the British subjects; and for the performance
of these articles two-and-twenty of their head men were put as hostages into the hands of the
governor. So little regard, however, was paid by these savages to this solemn accommodation,
that Mr. Lyttleton had been returned but a few days from their country, when they attempted
to surprise the English fort Prince George, near the frontiers of Carolina, by going thither
in a body, on pretence of delivering up some murderers; but the commanding officer, perceiving
some suspicious circumstances in their behaviour, acted with such vigilance and circumspection
as entirely frustrated their design. [549] [See note 4 L, at the end of this Vol.] Thus disappointed,
they wreaked their vengeance upon the English subjects trading in their country, all of whom
they butchered without mercy. Not contented with this barbarous sacrifice, they made incursions
on the British settlements at the Long Lanes, and the forks of the Broad River, and massacred
about forty defenceless colonists, who reposed themselves in full security on the peace so
lately ratified. As views of interest could not have induced them to act in this manner, and
their revenge had not been inflamed by any fresh provocation, these violences must be imputed
to the instigation of French incendiaries; and too plainly evinced the necessity of crowning
our American conquests with the reduction of Louisiana, from whence these emissaries were undoubtedly
despatched.

The cruelty and mischief with which the Cherokees prosecuted their renewed hostilities alarmed
all the southern colonies of the English, and application was made for assistance to Mr. Amherst,
the commander-in-chief of the king's forces in America. He forthwith detached twelve hundred
chosen men to South Carolina, under the command of colonel Montgomery, brother to the earl
of Eglinton, an officer of approved conduct and distinguished gallantry. Immediately after
his arrival at Charles-Town, he advanced to Ninety-Six, and proceeded to Twelve-mile river,
which he passed in the beginning of June, without opposition. He continued his route by forced
marches until he arrived in the neighbourhood of the Indian town called Little Keowee, where
he encamped in an advantageous situation. Having reason to believe the enemy were not yet apprized
of his coming, he resolved to rush upon them in the night by surprise. With this view, leaving
his tents standing with a sufficient guard for the camp and waggons, he marched through the
woods towards the Cherokee town of Estatoe, at the distance of five-and-twenty miles: and in
his route detached a company of light infantry to destroy the village of Little Keowee, where
they were received with a smart fire; but they rushed in with their bayonets, and all the men
were put to the sword. The main body proceeded straight to Estatoe, which they reached in the
morning; but it had been abandoned about half an hour before their arrival. Some few of the
Indians, who had not time to escape, were slain; and the town, consisting of two hundred houses,
well stored with provisions, ammunition, and all the necessaries of life, was first plundered,
and then reduced to ashes: some of the wretched inhabitants who concealed themselves perished
in the flames. It was necessary to strike a terror into those savages by some examples of severity;
and the soldiers became deaf to all the suggestions of mercy when they found in one of the
Indian towns the body of an Englishman, whom they had put to the torture that very morning.
Colonel Montgomery followed his blow with surprising rapidity. In the space of a few hours
he destroyed Sugar-Town, which was as large as Estateo, and every village and house in the
Lower Nation. The Indian villages in this part of the world were agreeably situated, generally
consisting of about one hundred houses, neatly and commodiously built, and well supplied with
provisions. They had in particular large magazines of corn, which were consumed in the flames.
All the men that were taken suffered immediate death; but the greater part of the nation had
escaped with the utmost precipitation. In many houses the beds were yet warm, and the table
spread with victuals. Many loaded guns went off while the houses were burning. The savages
had not time to save their most valuable effects. The soldiers found some money, three or four
watches, a good quantity of wampum, clothes, and peltry. Colonel Montgomery having thus taken
vengeance on the perfidious Cherokees, at the expense of five or six men killed or wounded,
returned to Fort Prince George, with about forty Indian women and children whom he had made
prisoners. Two of their warriors were set at liberty, and desired to inform their nation, that,
though they were now in the power of the English, they might still, on their submission, enjoy
the blessings of peace. As the chief called Attakullakulla, alias the Little Carpenter, who
had signed the last treaty, disapproved of the proceedings of his countrymen, and had done
many good offices to the English since the renovation of the war, he was now given to understand
that he might come down with some other chiefs to treat of an accommodation, which would be
granted to the Cherokees on his account; but that the negotiation must be begun in a few days,
otherwise all the towns in the Upper Nation would be ravaged and reduced to ashes.

These intimations having produced little or no effect, colonel Montgomery resolved to make
a second irruption into the middle settlements of the Cherokees, and began his march on the
twenty-fourth day of June. On the twenty-seventh, captain Morrison, of the advanced party,
was killed by a shot from a thicket, and the firing became so troublesome that his men gave
way. The grenadiers and light infantry being detached to sustain them, continued to advance,
notwithstanding the fire from the woods; until, from a rising ground, they discovered a body
of the enemy. These they immediately attacked, and obliged to retire into a Swamp; which, when
the rest of the troops came up, they were after a short resistance compelled to abandon: but,
as the country was difficult, and the path extremely narrow, the forces suffered on their march
from the fire of scattered parties who concealed themselves behind trees and bushes. At length
they arrived at the town of Etchowee, which the inhabitants had forsaken after having removed
every thing of value. Here, while the army encamped on a small plain, surrounded by hills,
it was incommoded by volleys from the enemy, which wounded some men, and killed several horses.
They were even so daring as to attack the piquet guard, which repulsed them with difficulty;
but, generally speaking, their parties declined an open engagement. Colonel Montgomery, sensible
that, as many horses were killed or disabled, he could not proceed farther without leaving
his provisions behind, or abandoning the wounded men to the brutal revenge of a savage enemy,
resolved to return; and began his retreat in the night, that he might be the less disturbed
by the Indians. Accordingly, he pursued his route for two days without interruption; but afterwards
sustained some straggling fires from the woods, though the parties of the enemy were put to
flight as often as they appeared. In the beginning of July he arrived at Fort Prince George;
this expedition having cost him about seventy men killed and wounded, including five officers.

FATE OF THE GARRISON AT FORT LOUDOUN.

In revenge for these calamities, the Cherokees assembled to a considerable number, and formed
the blockade of Fort Loudoun, a small fortification near the confines of Virginia, defended
by an inconsiderable garrison, ill supplied with provisions and necessaries. After having sustained
a long siege, and being reduced to the utmost distress, captain Demere, the commander, held
a council of war with the other officers, to deliberate upon their present situation; when
it appeared that their provisions were entirely exhausted; that they had subsisted a considerable
time without bread upon horse-flesh, and such supplies of pork and beans as the Indian women
could introduce by stealth: that the men were so weakened with famine and fatigue, that in
a little time they would not be able to do duty; that, for two nights past, considerable parties
had deserted, and some thrown themselves upon the mercy of the enemy; but the garrison in general
threatened to abandon their officers, and betake themselves to the woods; and that there was
no prospect of relief, their communication having been long cut off from all the British settlements:
for these reasons they were unanimously of opinion that it was impracticable to prolong their
defence; and they should accept of an honourable capitulation; and captain Stuart should be
sent to treat with the warriors and the head men of the Cherokees, about the conditions of
their surrender. This officer, being accordingly despatched with full powers, obtained a capitulation
of the Indians, by which the garrison was permitted to retire. The Indians desired that, when
they arrived at Keowee, the Cherokee prisoners confined at that place should be released, all
hostilities cease, a lasting accommodation be re-established, and a regulated trade revived.
In consequence of this treaty the garrison evacuated the fort, and had marched about fifteen
miles on their return to Carolina, when they were surrounded and surprised by a large body
of Indians, who massacred all the officers except captain Stuart, and slew five and twenty
of the soldiers: the rest were made prisoners, and distributed among the different towns and
villages of the nation. Captain Stuart owed his life to the generous intercession of the Little
Carpenter, who ransomed him at the price of all he could command, and conducted him safe to
Holston River, where he found major Lewis advanced so far with a body of Virginians. The savages,
encouraged by their success at Fort Loudoun, undertook the siege of Ninety-Six, and other small
fortifications; but retired precipitately on the approach of a body of provincials.

BRITISH INTEREST ESTABLISHED ON THE OHIO.

In the meantime, the British interest and empire were firmly established on the banks of the
Ohio, by the prudence and conduct of major-general Stanwix, who had passed the winter at Pittsburgh,
formerly Du Quesne, and employed that time in the most effectual manner for the service of
his country. He repaired the old works, established posts of communication from the Ohio to
Monongahela, mounted the bastions that cover the isthmus with artillery, erected casemates,
store-houses, and barracks, for a numerous garrison, and cultivated with equal diligence and
success the friendship and alliance of the Indians. The happy consequences of these measures
were soon apparent in the production of a considerable trade between the natives and the merchants
of Pittsburgh, and in the perfect security of about four thousand settlers, who now returned
to the quiet possession of the lands from whence they had been driven by the enemy on the frontiers
of Pennsylvania, Maryland, and Virginia.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

THE FRENCH UNDERTAKE THE SIEGE OF QUEBEC.

The incidents of the war were much more important and decisive in the more northern parts of
this great continent. The reader will remember that brigadier-general Murray was left to command
the garrison of Quebec, amounting to about six thousand men; that a strong squadron of ships
was stationed at Halifax, in Nova-Scotia, under the direction of lord Colville, an able and
experienced officer, who had instructions to revisit Quebec in the beginning of summer, as
soon as the river St. Laurence should be navigable; and that general Amherst, the commander-in-chief
of the forces in America, wintered in New-York, that he might be at hand to assemble his troops
in the spring, and re-commence his operations for the entire reduction of Canada. General Murray
neglected no step that could be taken by the most vigilant officer for maintaining the important
conquest of Quebec, and subduing all the Lower Canada; the inhabitants of which actually submitted,
and took the oath of allegiance to the king of Great Britain. [550] [See note 4 M, at the end
of this Vol.] The garrison., however, within the walls of Quebec, suffered greatly from the
excessive cold in the winter, and the want of vegetables and fresh provisions; insomuch that,
before the end of April, one thousand soldiers were dead of the scurvy, and twice that number
rendered unfit for service. Such was the situation of the garrison, when Mr. Murray received
undoubted intelligence that the French commander, the chevalier de Levis, was employed in assembling
his army, which had been cantoned in the neighbourhood of Montreal; that from the inhabitants
of the country he had completed his eight battalions, regimented forty companies of the troops
de Colonie, and determined to undertake the siege of Quebec, whenever the river St. Laurence
should be so clear of ice that he could use his four frigates, and other vessels, by means
of which he was entirely master of the river.

The brigadier, considering the city of Quebec as no other than a strong cantonment, had projected
a plan of defence, by extending lines, and intrenching his troops on the heights of Abraham,
which at the distance of eight hundred paces, entirely commanded the ramparts of the city,
and might have been defended by a small force against a formidable army. Fascines, and every
other necessary for this work, had been provided; and in the month of April the men were set
at work upon the projected lines: but the earth was so hardened by the frost, that it was found
impracticable to proceed. Being informed on the night of the twenty-sixth, that the enemy had
landed at Point-au-Tremble, to the number of ten thousand men, with five hundred savages, he
ordered all the bridges over the river Cape Rouge to be broken down, secured the landing places
at Sylleri and the Foulon; and next day, marching in person with a strong detachment, and two
field-pieces, took possession of an advantageous situation, and thus defeated the scheme which
the French commander had laid for cutting off the posts which the English had established.
These being all withdrawn, the brigadier that same afternoon marched back to Quebec, with little
or no loss, although his rear was harassed by the enemy. Here he formed a resolution which
hath been censured by some critics in war, as a measure that savoured more of youthful impatience
and overboiling courage than of that military discretion which ought to distinguish a commander
in such a delicate situation; but it is more easy to censure with an appearance of reason,
than to act in such circumstances with any certainty of success. Mr. Murray, in his letter
to the secretary of state, declared, that, although the enemy were greatly superior to him
in number, yet, when he considered that the English forces were habituated to victory, that
they were provided with a fine train of field-artillery; that, in shutting them at once within
the walls, he should have risked his whole stake on the single chance of defending a wretched
fortification; a chance which could not be much lessened by an action in the field, though
such an action would double the chance of success: for these reasons he determined to hazard
a battle; should the event prove unprosperous, he resolved to hold out the place to the last
extremity; then to retreat to the Isle of Orleans, or Coudres, with the remainder of the garrison,
and there wait for a reinforcement. In pursuance of these resolutions he gave the necessary
orders over night; and on the twenty-eighth day of April, at half an hour after six in the
morning, marched out with his little army of three thousand men, which he formed on the heights
in order of battle. The right brigade, commanded by colonel Burton, consisted of the regiments
of Amherst, Anstruther, Webb, and the second battalion of Royal Americans; the left, under
colonel Fraser, was formed of the regiments of Kennedy, Lascelles, Town-shend, and the Highlanders.
Otway's regiment, and the third battalion of Royal Americans, constituted the corps de reserve.
Major Dalling's corps of light infantry covered the right flank; the left was secured by captain
Huzzen's company of rangers, and one hundred volunteers, under the command of captain Donald
Mac-donald; and each battalion was supplied with two field-pieces. Brigadier Murray, having
reconnoitred the enemy, perceived their van had taken possession of the rising grounds about
three quarters of a mile in his front; but that their army was on the march in one column.
Thinking this was the critical moment to attack them before they were formed, he advanced towards
them with equal order and expedition. They were soon driven from the heights, though not without
a warm dispute; during which the body of their army advanced at a round pace, and formed in
columns. Their van consisted of ten companies of grenadiers, two of volunteers, and four hundred
savages; eight battalions, formed in four columns, with some bodies of Canadians in the intervals,
constituted their main body; their rear was composed of two battalions, and some Canadians
in the flanks; and two thousand Canadians formed the reserve. Their whole army amounted to
upwards of twelve thousand men. Major Balling, with great gallantry, dispossessed their grenadiers
of a house and windmill which they occupied, in order to cover their left flank; and in this
attack the major and some of his officers were wounded: nevertheless, the light infantry pursued
the fugitives to a corps which was formed to sustain them; then the pursuers halted, and dispersed
along the front of the right; a circumstance which prevented that wing from taking advantage
of the first impression they had made on the left of the enemy. The light infantry, being ordered
to regain the flank, were, in attempting this motion, furiously charged, and thrown into disorder:
then they retired to the rear in such a shattered condition, that they could never again be
brought up during the whole action. Otway's regiment was instantly ordered to advance from
the body of the reserve, and sustain the right wing, which the enemy twice in vain attempted
to penetrate. Meanwhile the left brigade of the British forces did not remain inactive: they
had dispossessed the French of two redoubts, and sustained with undaunted resolution the whole
efforts of the enemy's right, until they were fairly fought down, overpowered by numbers, and
reduced to a handful, notwithstanding the assistance they received from the third battalion
of Royal Americans, which had been stationed with the body of the reserve, as well as from
Kennedy's regiment, posted in the centre. The French attacked with great impetuosity; and at
length a fresh column of the regiment de Rousillon penetrating the left wing of the British
army, it gave way; the disorder was soon communicated to the right; so that after a very obstinate
dispute, which lasted an hour and three quarters, brigadier Murray was obliged to quit the
field, with the loss of one thousand men killed or wounded, and the greater part of his artillery.
The enemy lost twice the number of men and reaped no essential advantage from their victory.

QUEBEC BESIEGED.

Mr. Murray, far from being dispirited by his defeat, no sooner retired within the walls of
Quebec, than he resolved to prosecute the fortifications of the place, which had been interrupted
by the severity of the winter; and the soldiers exerted themselves with incredible alacrity,
not only in labouring at the works, but also in the defence of the town, before which the enemy
had opened trenches on the very evening of the battle. Three ships anchored at the Foulon below
their camp; and for several days they were employed in landing their cannon, mortars, and ammunition.
Meanwhile they worked incessantly at their trenches before the town; and on the eleventh day
of May, opened one bomb-battery, and three batteries of cannon. Brigadier Murray made the necessary
dispositions to defend the place to the last extremity: he raised two cavaliers, contrived
some out-works, and planted the ramparts with one hundred and thirty-two pieces of artillery,
dragged thither mostly by the soldiery. Though the enemy cannonaded the place with great vivacity
the first day, their fire soon slackened; and their batteries were in a manner silenced by
the superior fire of the garrison: nevertheless, Quebec would in all probability have reverted
to its former owners, had a French fleet from Europe got the start of an English squadron in
sailing up the river.

THE ENEMIES SHIPPING DESTROYED.

Lord Colville had sailed from Halifax, with the fleet under his command, on the twenty-second
day of April; but was retarded in his passage by thick fogs, contrary winds, and great shoals
of ice floating down the river. Commodore Swanton, who had sailed from England with a small
reinforcement, arrived about the beginning of May at the Isle of Bee, in the river St. Laurence,
where, with two ships, he purposed to wait for the rest of his squadron, which had separated
from him in the passage: but one of these, the Lowestoffe, commanded by captain Deane, had
entered the harbour of Quebec on the ninth day of May, and communicated to the governor the
joyful news that the squadron was arrived in the river. Commodore Swanton no sooner received
intimation that Quebec was besieged, than he sailed up the river with all possible expedition,
and on the fifteenth in the evening anchored above Point Levi. The brigadier expressing an
earnest desire that the French squadron above the town might be removed, the commodore ordered
captain Schomberg of the Diana, and captain Deane of the Lowestoffe, to slip their cables early
next morning, and attack the enemy's fleet, consisting of two frigates, two armed ships, and
a great number of smaller vessels. They were no sooner in motion than the French ships fled
in the utmost disorder. One of their frigates was driven on the rocks above Cape Diamond; the
other ran ashore, and was burned at Point-au-Tremble, about ten leagues above the town; and
all the other vessels were taken or destroyed.

The enemy were so confounded and dispirited by this disaster, and the certain information that
a strong English fleet was already in the river St. Laurence, that in the following night they
raised the siege of Quebec, and retreated with great precipitation, leaving their provisions,
implements, and artillery to governor Murray, who had intended to make a vigorous sally in
the morning, and attempt to penetrate into the camp of the besiegers, which, from the information
of prisoners and deserters, he conceived to be a very practicable scheme. For this purpose
he had selected a body of troops, who were already under arms, when a lieutenant, whom he had
sent out with a detachment to amuse the enemy, came and assured him that their trenches were
abandoned. He instantly marched out of Quebec at the head of his forces, in hopes of overtaking
and making an impression on their rear, that he might have ample revenge for his late discomfiture;
but they had passed the river Cape Rouge before he could come up with their army: however,
he took some prisoners, and a great quantity of baggage, including their tents, stores, magazines
of provision and ammunition, with thirty-four pieces of battering cannon, ten field-pieces,
six mortars, four petards, a great number of scaling ladders, intrenching tools, and every
other implement for a siege. They retired to Jaques-Quartiere, where their ammunition began
to fail, and they were abandoned by great part of the Canadians; so that they resigned all
hope of succeeding against Quebec, and began to take measures for the preservation of Montreal,
against which the force under general Amherst was directed. There M. Vaudreuil had fixed his
head-quarters, and there he proposed to make his last stand against the efforts of the British
general. He not only levied forces, collected magazines, and erected new fortifications in
the island of Montreal, but he had even recourse to feigned intelligence, and other arts of
delusion, to support the spirits of the Canadians and their Indian allies, which had begun
to flag in consequence of their being obliged to abandon the siege of Quebec. It must be owned,
he acted with all the spirit and foresight of an experienced general, determined to exert himself
for the preservation of the colony, even though very little prospect of success remained. His
hopes, slender as they were, depended upon the natural strength of the country, rendered almost
inaccessible by woods, mountains, and morasses, which might have retarded the progress of the
English, and protracted the war until a general pacification could be effected. In the meantime,
major-general Amherst was diligently employed in taking measures for the execution of the plan
he had projected, in order to complete the conquest of Canada. He conveyed instructions to
general Murray, directing him to advance by water towards Montreal, with all the troops that
could be spared from the garrison of Quebec. He detached colonel Haviland, with a body of troops
from Crown-Point, to take possession of the Isle-aux-Noix, in the lake Champlain, and from
thence penetrate the shortest way to the bank of the river St. Laurence; while he himself,
with the main body of the army, amounting to about ten thousand men, including Indians, should
proceed from the frontiers of New York, by the rivers of the Mohawks and Oneidas, to the lake
Ontario, and sail down the river St. Laurence to the island of Montreal. Thus, on the supposition
that all these particulars could be executed, the enemy must have been hemmed in and entirely
surrounded. In pursuance of this plan, general Amherst had provided two armed sloops to cruise
in the lake Ontario, under the command of captain Loring; as well as a great number of bateaux,
or smaller vessels, for the transportation of the troops, artillery, ammunition, implements,
and baggage. Several regiments were ordered to proceed from Albany to Oswego: and the general
taking his departure from Schenectady, with the rest of the forces, in the latter end of June,
arrived at the same place on the ninth day of July.

GENERAL AMHERST REDUCES THE FRENCH FORT AT THE ISLE ROYALE.

Being informed that two French vessels had appeared off Oswego, he despatched some bateaux
to Niagara, with intelligence to captain Loring, who immediately set sail in quest of them;
but they escaped his pursuit, though they had twice appeared in the neighbourhood of Oswego
since the arrival of the general, who endeavoured to amuse them, by detaching bateaux to different
parts of the lake. The army being assembled, and joined by a considerable body of Indians,
under the command of sir William Johnston, the general detached colonel Haviland, with the
light infantry, the grenadiers, and one battalion of highlanders, to take post at the bottom
of the lake, and assist the armed vessels in finding a passage to La Galette. On the tenth
day of August the army embarked on board the bateaux and whale-boats, and proceeded on the
lake towards the mouth of the river St. Laurence. Understanding that one of the enemy's vessels
had run aground and was disabled, and that the other lay off La Galette, he resolved to make
the best of his way down the river to Swegatchie, and attack the French fort at Isle Royale,
one of the most important posts on the river St. Laurence, the source of which it in a great
measure commands. On the seventeenth, the row-galleys fell in with the French sloop commanded
by M. de la Broquerie, who surrendered after a warm engagement. Mr. Amherst having detached
some engineers to reconnoitre the coasts and islands in the neighbourhood of Isle Royale, he
made a disposition for the attack of that fortress, which was accordingly invested, after he
had taken possession of the islands. Some of these the enemy had abandoned with such precipitation,
as to leave behind a few scalps they had taken on the Mohawk river, a number of tools and utensils,
two swivels, some barrels of pitch, and a large quantity of iron. The Indians were so incensed
at sight of the scalps, that they burned a chapel and all the houses of the enemy. Batteries
being raised on the nearest islands, the fort was cannonaded not only by them, but likewise
by the armed sloops, and a disposition was made for giving the assault, when M. Pouchart, the
governor, thought proper to beat a parley, and surrender on capitulation. The general, having
taken possession of the fort, found it so well situated for commanding the lake Ontario and
the Mohawk river, that he resolved to maintain it with a garrison, and employed some days in
repairing the fortifications.

From this place his navigation down the river St. Laurence was rendered extremely difficult
and dangerous, by a great number of violent riffs or rapids, and falls; among which he lost
above fourscore men, forty-six bateaux, seventeen whale-boats, one row-galley, with some artillery,
stores, and ammunition. On the sixth day of September the troops were landed on the island
of Montreal, without any opposition, except from some flying parties, which exchanged a few
shot, and then fled with precipitation. That same day he repaired a bridge which they had broken
down in their retreat; and, after a march of two leagues, formed his army on a plain before
Montreal, where they lay all night on their arms. Montreal is, in point of importance, the
second place in Canada, situated in an island of the river St. Laurence, at an equal distance
from Quebec and the lake Ontario. Its central situation rendered it the staple of the Indian
trade; yet the fortifications of it were inconsiderable, not at all adequate to the value of
the place. General Amherst ordered some pieces of artillery to be brought up immediately from
the landing-place at La Chine, where he had left some regiments for the security of the boats,
and determined to commence the siege in form; but in the morning of the seventh he received
a letter from the marquis de Vaudreuil by two officers, demanding a capitulation; which, after
some letters had passed between the two generals, was granted upon as favourable terms as the
French had reason to expect, considering that general Murray, with the troops from Quebec,
had by this time landed on the island; and colonel Haviland, with the body under his command,
had just arrived on the south side of the river, opposite to Montreal; circumstances equally
favourable and surprising, if we reflect upon the different routes they pursued, through an
enemy's country, where they had no intelligence of the motions of each other. Had any accident
retarded the progress of general Amherst, the reduction of Montreal would have been attempted
by general Murray, who embarked with his troops at Quebec on board of a great number of small
vessels, under the command of captain Deane in the Diana. This gentleman, with uncommon abilities,
surmounted the difficulties of an unknown, dangerous, and intricate navigation; and conducted
the voyage with such success, that not a single vessel was lost in the expedition. M. de Levis,
at the head of his forces, watched the motions of general Murray, who, in advancing up the
river, published manifestoes among the Canadians, which produced all the effect he could desire.
Almost all the parishes on the south shore, as far as the river Sorrel, submitted, and took
the oath of neutrality; and lord Rolle disarmed all the inhabitants of the north shore, as
far as Trois Rivieres, which, though the capital of a district, being no more than an open
village, was taken without resistance. In a word, general Amherst took possession of Montreal,
and thus completed the conquest of all Canada; a conquest the most important of any that ever
the British arms achieved, whether we consider the safety of the English colonies in North
America, now secured from invasion and encroachment; the extent and fertility of the country
subdued; or the whole Indian commerce thus transferred to the traders of Great Britain. The
terms of the capitulation may perhaps be thought rather too favourable, as the enemy were actually
enclosed and destitute of all hope of relief: but little points like these ought always to
be sacrificed to the consideration of great objects; and the finishing the conquest of a great
country without bloodshed, redounds as much to the honour as it argues the humanity of general
Amherst, whose conduct had been irreproachable during the whole course of the American operations.
At the same time, it must be allowed he was extremely fortunate in having subordinate commanders,
who perfectly corresponded with his ideas; and a body of troops whom no labours could discourage,
whom no dangers could dismay. Sir William Johnston, with a power of authority and insinuation
peculiar to himself, not only maintained a surprising ascendancy over the most ferocious of
all the Indian tribes, but kept them within the bounds of such salutary restraint, that not
one single act of inhumanity was perpetrated by them during the whole course of this expedition.
The zeal and conduct of brigadier-general Gage, the undaunted spirit and enterprising genius
of general Murray, the diligence and activity of colonel Haviland, happily co-operated in promoting
this great event.

FRENCH SHIPS DESTROYED, &c.

The French ministry had attempted to succour Montreal by equipping a considerable number of
store ships, and sending them out in the spring under convoy of a frigate; but as their officers
understood that the British squadron had sailed up the river St. Laurence before their arrival,
they took shelter in the bay of Chaleurs, on the coast of Acadia, where they did not long remain
unmolested. Captain Byron, who commanded the ships of war that were left at Louisbourg, having
received intelligence of them from brigadier-general Whitmore, sailed thither with his squadron,
and found them at anchor. The whole fleet consisted of one frigate, two large store-ships,
and nineteen sail of smaller vessels; the greater part of which had been taken from the merchants
of Great Britain; all these were destroyed, together with two batteries which had been raised
for their protection. The French town, consisting of two hundred houses, was demolished, and
the settlement totally ruined. All the French subjects inhabiting the territories from the
bay of Funda to the banks of the river St. Laurence, and all the Indians through that tract
of country, were now subdued, and subjected to the English government. In the month of December
of the preceding year, the French colonists at Miramachi, Rickebuctou, and other places lying
along the gulf of St. Laurence, made their submission by deputies to colonel Frye, who commanded
in Fort Cumberland at Chignecto. They afterwards renewed this submission in the most formal
manner, by subscribing articles, by which they obliged themselves, and the people they represented,
to repair in the spring to Bay Verte, with all their effects and shipping, to be disposed of
according to the direction of colonel Laurence, governor of Halifax, in Nova-Scotia. They were
accompanied by two Indian chiefs of the nation of the Mickmacks, a powerful and numerous people,
now become entirely dependent upon his Britannic majesty. In a word, by the conquest of Canada,
the Indian fur trade, in its full extent, fell into the hands of the English. The French interest
among the savage tribes, inhabiting an immense tract of country, was totally extinguished;
and their American possessions shrunk within the limits of Louisiana, an infant colony on the
south of the Mississippi, which the British arms may at any time easily subdue.

DEMOLITION OF LOUISBOURG.

The conquest of Canada being achieved, nothing now remained to be done in North America, except
the demolition of the fortifications of Louisbourg on the island of Cape Breton; for which
purpose some able engineers had been sent from England with the ships commanded by captain
Byron. By means of mines artfully disposed and well constructed, the fortifications were reduced
to a heap of rubbish, the glacis was levelled, and the ditches were filled. All the artillery,
ammunition, and implements of war, were conveyed to Halifax; but the barracks were repaired,
so as to accommodate three hundred men occasionally; the hospital, with the private houses,
were left standing. The French still possessed, upon the continent of America, the fertile
country lying on each side of the great river Mississippi, which disembogues itself into the
gulf of Florida; but the colony was so thinly peopled, and so ill provided, that, far from
being formidable, it scarcely could have subsisted, unless the British traders had been base
and treacherous enough to supply it from time to time with provisions and necessaries. The
same infamous commerce was carried on with divers French plantations in the West Indies; insomuch
that the governors of provinces, and commanders of the squadrons stationed in those seas, made
formal complaints of it to the ministry. The temptation of extraordinary profit excited the
merchants not only to assist the enemies of their country, but also run all risks in eluding
the vigilance of the legislature. The inhabitants of Martinique found a plentiful market of
provision furnished by the British subjects at the Dutch islands of Eustatia and Curaeoa: and
those that were settled on the island of Hispaniola were supplied in the same manner at the
Spanish settlement of Monte-Christo.

INSURRECTION IN JAMAICA.

While the British commanders exerted themselves by sea and land with the most laudable spirit
of vigilance and courage against the foreign adversaries of their country, the colonists of
Jamaica ran the most imminent hazard of being extirpated by a domestic enemy. The negro slaves
of that island, grown insolent in the contemplation of their own formidable numbers, or by
observing the supine indolence of their masters, or stimulated by that appetite for liberty
so natural to the mind of man, began, in the course of this year, to entertain thoughts of
shaking off the yoke by means of a general insurrection. Assemblies were held and plans resolved
for this purpose. At length they concerted a scheme for rising in arms all at once in different
parts of the island, in order to massacre all the white men, and take possession of the government.
They agreed that this design should be put in execution immediately after the departure of
the fleet for Europe; but their plan was defeated by their ignorance and impatience. Those
of the conspirators that belonged to captain Forest's estate, being impelled by the fumes of
intoxication, fell suddenly upon the overseer, while he sat at supper with some friends, and
butchered the whole company. Being immediately joined by some of their confederates, they attacked
the neighbouring plantations, where they repeated the same barbarities; and, seizing all the
arms and ammunition that fell in their way, began to grow formidable to the colony. The governor
no sooner received intimation of this disturbance, than he, by proclamation, subjected the
colonists to martial law. All other business was interrupted, and every man took to his arms.
The regular troops, joined by the troop of militia, and a considerable number of volunteers,
marched from Spanish Town to Saint Mary's, where the insurrection began, and skirmished with
the insurgents; but as they declined standing any regular engagement, and trusted chiefly to
bush-fighting, the governor employed against them the free blacks, commonly known by the name
of the wild negroes, now peaceably settled under the protection of the government. These auxiliaries,
in consideration of a price set upon the heads of the rebels, attacked them in their own way,
slew them by surprise, until their strength was broken, and numbers made away with themselves
in despair; so that the insurrection was supposed to be quelled about the beginning of May,
but in June it broke out again with redoubled fury, and the rebels were reinforced to a very
considerable number. The regular troops and the militia, joined by a body of sailors, formed
a camp under the command of colonel Spragge, who sent out detachments against the negroes,
a great number of whom were killed, and some taken; but the rest, instead of submitting, took
shelter in the woods and mountains. The prisoners, being tried and found guilty of rebellion,
were put to death by a variety of tortures. Some were hanged, some beheaded, some burned, and
some fixed alive upon gibbets. One of these last lived eight days and eighteen hours, suspended
under a vertical sun, without being refreshed by one drop of water, or receiving any manner
of sustenance. In order to prevent such insurrections for the future, the justices assembled
at the sessions of the peace established regulations, importing, that no negro-slave should
be allowed to quit his plantation without a white conductor, or a ticket of leave; that every
negro playing at any sort of game should be scourged through the public streets; that every
publican suffering such gaming in his house should forfeit forty shillings; that every proprietor
suffering his negroes to beat a drum, blow a horn, or make any other noise in his plantation,
should be fined ten pounds; and every overseer allowing these irregularities should pay half
that sum, to be demanded, or distrained for, by any civil or military officer; that every free
negro, or mulatto, should wear a blue cross on his right shoulder, on pain of imprisonment;
that no mulatto, Indian, or negro, should hawk or sell any thing, except fresh fish or milk,
on pain of being scourged; that rum and punch houses should be shut up during divine service
on Sundays, under the penalty of twenty shillings; and that those who had petit licenses should
shut up their houses on other nights at nine o'clock.

ACTION AT SEA OFF HISPANIOLA.

Notwithstanding these examples and regulations, a body of rebellious negroes still subsisted
in places that were deemed inaccessible to regular forces; and from these they made nocturnal
irruptions into the nearest plantations, where they acted with all the wantonness of barbarity:
so that the people of Jamaica were obliged to conduct themselves with the utmost vigilance
and circumspection; while rear-admiral Holmes, who commanded at sea, took every precaution
to secure the island from insult or invasion. He not only took measures for the defence of
Jamaica, but also contrived and executed schemes for annoying the enemy. Having in the month
of October received intelligence that five French frigates were equipped at Cape François,
on the island of Hispaniola, in order to convoy a fleet of merchant-ships to Europe, he stationed
the ships under his command in such a manner as was most likely to intercept this fleet; and
his disposition was attended with success. The enemy sailed from the Cape to the number of
eight sail, on the sixteenth; and next day they were chased by the king's ships the Hampshire,
Lively, and Boreas; which however made small progress, as there was little wind, and that variable.
In the evening the breeze freshened; and about midnight the Boreas came up with the Sirenne,
commanded by commodore M'Cartie. They engaged with great vivacity for about twenty-five minutes,
when the Sirenne shot a-head, and made the best of her way. The Boreas was so damaged in her
rigging, that she could not close with the enemy again till next day, at two in the afternoon,
when the action was renewed off the east end of Cuba, and maintained till forty minutes past
four, when Mr. M'Cartie struck. In the meantime, the Hampshire and Lively gave chase to the
other four French frigates, which steered to the southward with all the sail they could carry,
in order to reach the west end of Tortuga, and shelter themselves in Port-au-Prince. On the
eighteenth, the Lively, by the help of her oars, came up with the Valeur, at half an hour past
seven in the morning; and after a hot action, which continued an hour and a half, compelled
the enemy to submit. The Hampshire stood after the three others, and about four in the afternoon
ran up between the duke de Choiseul and the prince Edward. These she engaged at the same time;
but the first, having the advantage of the wind, made her retreat into Port-au-Paix, the other
ran ashore about two leagues to leeward, and struck her colours; but at the approach of the
Hampshire the enemy set her on fire, and she blew up. This was also the fate of the Fleur de
Lys, which had run into Freshwater Bay, a little farther to leeward of Port-au-Prince. Thus,
by the prudent disposition of admiral Holmes, and the gallantry of his three captains Norbury,
Uvedale, and Maitland, two large frigates of the enemy were taken, and three destroyed. The
spirit of the officers was happily supported by an uncommon exertion of courage in the men,
who cheerfully engaged in the most dangerous enterprises. Immediately after the capture of
the French frigates, eight of the enemy's privateers were destroyed or brought into Jamaica.
Two of these, namely, the Vainqueur of ten guns, sixteen swivels, and ninety men, and the Mackau
of six swivels, and fifteen men, had run into shoal water in Cumberland harbour on the island
of Cuba. The boats of the Trent and Boreas, manned under the direction of the lieutenants Miller
and Stuart, being rowed up to the Vainqueur, boarded and took possession under a close fire,
after having surmounted many other difficulties. The Mackau was taken without any resistance;
then the boats proceeded against the Guespe, of eight guns, and eighty-five men, which laid
at anchor farther up in the Lagoon, but before they came up the enemy had set her on fire,
and she was destroyed.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

GALLANT BEHAVIOUR OF CAPTAINS O'BRIEN AND TAYLOR.

The same activity and resolution distinguished the captains and officers belonging to the squadron
commanded by sir James Douglas off the Leeward islands. In the month of September, the captains
O'Brien and Taylor, of the ships Temple and Griffin, being on a joint cruise off the islands
Granadas, received intelligence that the Virgin, formerly a British sloop of war, which had
been taken by the enemy, then lay at anchor, together with three privateers, under protection
of three forts on the island, sailed thither in order to attack them, and their enterprise
was crowned with success. After a warm engagement which lasted several hours, the enemy's batteries
were silenced, and indeed demolished, and the English captains took possession of the four
prizes. They afterwards entered another harbour of that island, having first demolished another
fort; and there they lay four days unmolested, at the expiration of which they carried off
three other prizes. In their return to Antigua, they fell in with thirteen ships bound to Martinique
with provisions, and took them all without resistance. About the same time eight or nine privateers
were taken by the ships which commodore sir James Douglas employed in cruising round the island
of Guadaloupe, so that the British commerce in those seas flourished under his care and protection.

TRANSACTIONS IN THE EAST-INDIES.

In the East-Indies the British arms still continued to prosper. After the reduction of Arcot,
the garrisons of Permacoil and Allumparva surrendered themselves prisoners of war in the beginning
of May. The Falmouth obliged the Haarlem, a French ship from Meguy, to run ashore to the northward
of Pondicherry. The important settlement of Carical was reduced by the sea and land forces
commanded by rear-admiral Cornish and major Monson, and the French garrison made prisoners
of war; and colonel Coote formed the blockade of Pondicherry by laud, while the harbour was
beset by the English squadron.

ACHIEVEMENTS IN THE BAY OF QUIBERON.

No action of importance was in the course of this year achieved by the naval force of Great
Britain in the seas of Europe. A powerful squadron still remained in the hay of Quiberon, in
order to amuse and employ a body of French forces on that part of the coast, and interrupt
the navigation of the enemy; though the principal aim of this armament seems to have been to
watch and detain the few French ships which had run into the river Vil-laine, after the defeat
of Confians; an object, the importance of which will doubtless astonish posterity. The fleet
employed in this service was alternately commanded by admiral Boscawen and sir Edward Hawke,
officers of distinguished abilities, whose talents might have been surely rendered subservient
to much greater national advantages. All that Mr. Boscawen could do in this circumscribed scene
of action was, to take possession of a small island near the river Vannes, which he caused
to be cultivated, and planted with vegetables, for the use of the men infected with scorbutic
disorders arising from salt provision, sea air, and want of proper exercise. In the month of
September, sir Edward Hawke, who had by this time relieved Mr. Boscawen, detached the gallant
lord Howe, in the Magnanime, with the ships Prince Frederick and Bedford, to reduce the little
island of Dumet, about three miles in length, and two in breadth, abounding with fresh water.
It was defended by a small fort, mounted with nine cannon, and manned with one company of the
regiment of Bourbon, who surrendered in a very short time after the ships had begun the attack.
By this small conquest a considerable expense was saved to the nation in the article of transports
employed to carry water for the use of the squadron.

Admiral Rodney still maintained his former station off the coast of Havre de Grace, to observe
what should pass at the mouth of the Seine. In the month of July, while he hovered in this
neighbourhood, five large flat bottomed boats, laden with cannon and shot, feet sail from Harfleur
in the middle of the day, with their colours flying, as if they had set the English squadron
at defiance; for the walls of Havre de Grace, and even the adjacent hills, were covered with
spectators, assembled to behold the issue of this adventure. Having reached the river of Caen,
they stood backwards and forwards upon the shoals, intending to amuse admiral Rodney till night,
and then proceed under cover of the darkness. He perceived their drift, and gave directions
to his small vessels to be ready, that, as soon as day-light failed, they should make all the
sail they could for the mouth of the river Orne, in order to cut off the enemy's retreat, while
he himself stood with the larger ships to the steep coast of Port Bassin. The scheme succeeded
to his wish. The enemy, seeing their retreat cut off, ran ashore at Port Bassin, where the
admiral destroyed them, together with the small fort which had been erected for the defence
of this harbour. Each of those vessels was one hundred feet in length, and capable of containing
four hundred men for a short passage. What their destination was we cannot pretend to determine;
but the French had provided a great number of these transports, for ten escaped into the river
Orne leading to Caen; and in consequence of this disaster one hundred were unloaded, and sent
up again to Rouen. This was not all the damage that the enemy sustained on this part of the
coast. In the month of November, captain Curry, of the Acteon, chased a large privateer, and
drove her ashore between Cape Barfleur and La Hogue, where she perished. The cutters belonging
to admiral Rodney's squadron scoured the coast towards Dieppe, where a considerable fishery
was carried on, and where they took or destroyed near forty vessels of considerable burden.
Though the English navy suffered nothing from the French during this period, it sustained some
damage from the weather. The Conqueror, a new ship of the line, was lost in the channel, on
the island of St. Nicholas, but the crew and cannon were saved. The Lyme, of twenty guns, foundered
in the Categat, in Norway, and fifty of the men perished; and, in the West Indies, a tender
belonging to the Dublin, commanded by commodore sir James Douglas, was lost in a single wind,
with a hundred chosen mariners.

Of the domestic transactions relating to the war, the most considerable was the equipment of
a powerful armament destined for some secret expedition. A numerous body of forces was assembled,
and a great number of transports collected at Portsmouth. Generals were nominated to the command
of this enterprise. The troops were actually embarked with a great train of artillery; and
the eyes of the whole nation were attentively fixed upon this armament, which could not have
been prepared without incurring a prodigious expense. Notwithstanding these preparations, the
whole summer was spent in idleness and inaction; and in the latter end of the season the undertaking
was laid aside. The people did not fail to clamour against the inactivity of the summer, and
complained that, notwithstanding the immense subsidies granted for the prosecution of the war,
no stroke of importance was struck in Europe for the advantage of Great Britain; but that her
treasure was lavished upon fruitless parade, or a German alliance still more pernicious. It
must be owned indeed, that no new attempt was made to annoy the enemy on British principles;
for the surrender of Montreal was the natural consequence of the steps which had been taken,
and of the measures concerted in the course of the preceding year. It will be allowed, we apprehend,
that the expense incurred by the armament at Portsmouth, and the body of troops there detained,
would have been sufficient, if properly applied, to reduce the island of Mauritius in the Indian
ocean, Martinique in the West Indies, or Minorca in the Mediterranean; and all these three
were objects of importance. In all probability, the design of the armament was either to intimidate
the French into proposals of peace; to make a diversion from the Rhine, by alarming the coast
of Bretagne; or to throw over a body of troops into Flanders, to effect a junction with the
hereditary prince of Brunswick, who, at the head of twenty thousand men, had made an irruption
as far as the Lower Rhine, and even crossed that river; but he miscarried in the execution
of his design.

ASTRONOMERS SENT TO THE EAST INDIES.

In the midst of these alarms some regard was paid to the improvements of natural knowledge.
The Royal Society having made application to the king, representing that there would be a transit
of Venus over the disc of the sun, on the sixth day of June; and that there was reason to hope
the parallax of that planet might be more accurately determined by making proper observations
of this phenomenon at the island of St. Helena, near the coast of Africa, and at Bencoolen
in the East Indies, his majesty granted a sum of money to defray the expense of sending able
astronomers to those two places, and ordered a ship of war to be equipped for their conveyance.
Accordingly, Mr. Nevil Maskelyne and Mr. Robert Waddington were appointed to make the observations
at St. Helena; and Mr. Charles Mason and Mr. Jeremiah Dixon undertook the voyage to Bencoolen,
on the island of Sumatra.*

     * In the beginning of April, the king granted to his
     grandson prince Edward Augustus, and to the heirs male of
     his royal highness, the dignities of duke of the kingdom of
     Great Britain, and of earl of the kingdom of Ireland, by the
     names, styles, and titles, of duke of York and Albany, and
     earl of Ulster.

EARTHQUAKES IN SYRIA.

Except the countries that were actually the scenes of war, no political revolution or disturbance
disquieted the general tranquillity. Syria, indeed, felt all the horrors and wreck of a dreadful
earthquake, protracted in repeated shocks, which began on the thirteenth day of October, in
the neighbourhood of Tripoli. A great number of houses were overthrown at Seyde, and many people
buried under the ruins. It was felt through a space of ten thousand square leagues, comprehending
the mountains of Libanus and Antilibanus, with an infinite number of villages, that were reduced
to heaps of rubbish. At Acra, or Ptolemais, the sea overflowed its banks, and poured into the
streets, though eight feet above the level of the water. The city of Saphet was entirely destroyed,
and the greatest part of its inhabitants perished. At Damascus, all the minarets were overthrown,
and six thousand people lost their lives. The shocks diminished gradually till the twenty-fifth
day of November, when they were renewed with redoubled havoc; the earth trembled with the most
dreadful convulsions, and the greater part of Tripoli was destroyed. Balbeck was entirely ruined,
and this was the fate of many other towns and castles; so that the people who escaped the ruins
were obliged to sojourn in the open fields, and all Syria was threatened with the vengeance
of heaven. Such a dangerous ferment arose at Constantinople, that a revolution was apprehended.
Mustapha, the present emperor, had no sons; but his brother Bajazet, whose life he had spared,
contrary to the maxims of Turkish policy, produced a son by one of the women with whom he was
indulged in his confinement; a circumstance which aroused the jealousy of the emperor to such
a degree, that he resolved to despatch his brother. The great officers of the Porte opposed
this design, which was so disagreeable to the people, that an insurrection ensued. Several
Turks and Armenians, taking it for granted that a revolution was at hand, bought up great quantities
of grain; and a dreadful dearth was the consequence of this monopoly. The sultan assembled
the troops, quieted the insurgents, ordered the engrossers of corn to be executed, and in a
little time the repose of the city was reestablished.

Notwithstanding the prospect of a rupture in Italy, no new incident interrupted the tranquillity
which the southern parts of Europe enjoyed. The king of Spain, howsoever solicited by the other
branch of the house of Bourbon to engage in the war as its ally, refused to interpose in any
other way than as a mediator between the courts of London and Versailles. He sent the condé
de Fuentes, a nobleman of high rank and character, in quality of ambassador-extraordinary to
the king of Great Britain, in order to offer his good offices for effecting a peace; and the
condé, after having conferred with the English minister, made an excursion to Paris: but his
proposal with respect to a cessation of hostilities, if in reality such a proposal was ever
made, did not meet with a cordial reception. Other differences subsisting between the crowns
of Great Britain and Spain, he found no difficulty in compromising. His catholic majesty persisted
in the execution of a plan truly worthy of a patriot king. In the first place, he spared no
pains and application to make himself thoroughly acquainted with the state of his kingdom.
He remitted to his people all they owed the crown, amounting to threescore millions of reals:
he demanded an exact account of his father's debts, that they might be discharged with the
utmost punctuality: an order was sent to the treasury, that ten millions of reals should be
annually appropriated for this purpose, until the whole should be liquidated; and to the first
year's payment be added fifty millions, to be divided equally among the legal claimants. He
took measures for the vigorous execution of the laws against offenders; encouraged industry;
protected commerce; and felt the exquisite pleasure in being beloved as the father of his people.
To give importance to his crown, and extend his influence among the powers of Europe, he equipped
a powerful squadron of ships at Carthagena; and is said to have declared his intention to employ
them against Algiers, should the dey refuse to release the slaves of the Spanish nation.

AFFAIRS OF PORTUGAL.

Portugal still seemed agitated from the shock of the late conspiracy which was quelled in that
kingdom. The pope's nuncio was not only forbid the court, but even sent under a strong guard
to the frontiers; an indignity which induced the pontiff to order the Portuguese minister at
Rome to evacuate the ecclesiastical dominions. In the meantime, another embarkation of Jesuits
was sent from Lisbon to Civita Vecchia; yet the expulsion of these fathers did not restore
the internal peace of Portugal, or put an end to the practice of plotting; for, even since
their departure, some persons of rank have either been committed to close prison, or exiled
from the kingdom. The Jesuits were not more fortunate in America; for in the month of October,
in the foregoing year, an obstinate battle was fought between the united forces of Spain and
Portugal and the Indians of Paraguay, who were under the dominion of the Jesuits: victory at
length declared in favour of the two crowns; so that the vanquished were obliged to capitulate,
and lay down their arms. As the court of Portugal had made remonstrances to the British ministry
against the proceedings of the English squadron under admiral Boscawen, which had attacked
and destroyed some French ships under the Portuguese fort in the bay of Lagos, his Britannic
majesty thought proper to send the earl of Kinnoul as ambassador-extraordinary to Lisbon, where
that nobleman made such excuses for the insult of the English admiral, as entirely removed
all the misunderstanding between the two crowns; and could not fail of being agreeable to the
Portuguese monarch, thus respected, soothed, and deprecated by a mighty nation, in the very
zenith of power and prosperity. On the sixth of June, being the birthday of the king of Portugal,
the marriage of his brother don Pedro with the princess of Brazil was celebrated in the chapel
of the palace where the king resides, to the universal joy of the people. The nuptials were
announced to the public by the discharge of cannon, and celebrated with illuminations and all
kinds of rejoicing.

An accident which happened in the Mediterranean had like to have drawn the indignation of the
Ottoman Porte on the knights of the order of Malta. A large Turkish ship of the line, mounted
with sixty-eight brass cannon, having on board a complement of seven hundred men, besides seventy
christian slaves, under the immediate command of the Turkish admiral, had, in company with
two frigates, five galleys, and other smaller vessels, sailed in June from the Dardanelles;
cruised along the coast of Smyrna, Scio, and Trio; and at length anchored in the channel of
Stangie, where the admiral, with four hundred persons, went on shore, on the nineteenth day
of September: the christian slaves, seizing this opportunity, armed themselves with knives,
and fell upon the three hundred that remained with such fury and effect, that a great number
of the Turks were instantly slain; many leaped overboard into the sea, where they perished;
and the rest sued for mercy. The christians, having thus secured possession of the ship, hoisted
sail, and bore away for Malta: which, though chased by the two frigates and a Ragusan ship,
they reached by crowding all their canvas, and brought their prize safe into the harbour of
Valette, amidst the acclamations of the people. The order of Malta, as a recompence for this
signal act of bravery and resolution, assigned to the captors the whole property of the ship
and slaves, together with all the effects on board, including a sum of money which the Turkish
commander had collected by contribution, amounting to a million and a half of florins. The
grand seignior was so enraged at this event, that he disgraced his admiral, and threatened
to take vengeance on the order of Malta, for having detained the ship, and countenanced the
capture.

PATRIOTIC SCHEMES OF THE KING OF DENMARK.

With respect to the disputes which had so long embroiled the northern parts of Europe, the
neutral powers seemed as averse as ever to a participation. The king of Denmark continued to
perfect those plans which he had wisely formed for increasing the wealth, and promoting the
happiness of his subjects; nor did he neglect any opportunity of improving natural knowledge
for the benefit of mankind in general. He employed men of ability, at his own expense, to travel
into foreign countries, and to collect the most curious productions, for the advancement of
natural history: he encouraged the liberal and mechanic arts at home, by munificent rewards
and peculiar protection: he invited above a thousand foreigners from Germany to become his
subjects, and settle in certain districts in Jutland, which had lain waste above three centuries;
and they forthwith began to build villages, and cultivate the lands, in the dioceses of Wibourg,
Arhous, and Ripen. Their travelling expenses from Altona to their new settlement were defrayed
by the king, who moreover maintained them until the produce of the lands could afford a comfortable
subsistence. He likewise bestowed upon each colonist a house, a barn, and a stable, with a
certain number of horses and cattle. Finally, this generous patriot having visited these new
subjects, who received him with unspeakable emotions of joy and affection, he ordered a considerable
sum of money to be distributed among them as an additional mark of his favour. Such conduct
in a prince cannot fail to secure the warmest returns of loyalty and attachment in his people;
and the execution of such laudable schemes will endear his name to the contemplation of posterity.

MEMORIAL PRESENTED TO THE STATES-GENERAL.

The Dutch, as usual, persevered in prosecuting every branch of commerce, without being diverted
to less profitable schemes of state-policy by the insinuations of France, or the remonstrances
of Great Britain. The violation of the peace by their subjects in Bengal was no sooner known
at the court of London, than orders were sent to general Yorke, the English ambassador at the
Hague, to demand an explanation. He accordingly presented a memorial to the states-general,
signifying that their high mightinesses must doubtless be greatly astonished to hear, by the
public papers, of the irregularities committed by their subjects in the East Indies; but that
they would be much more amazed on perusing the piece annexed to his memorial, containing a
minute account, specified with the strictest regard to truth, of the irregular conduct observed
by the Dutch towards the British subjects in the river Bengal, at a time when the factors and
traders of Holland enjoyed all the sweets of peace and all the advantages of unmolested commerce:
at a time when his Britannic majesty, from his great regard to their high mightinesses, carefully
avoided giving the least umbrage to the subjects of the United Provinces. He observed that
the king his sovereign was deeply affected by these outrageous doings and mischievous designs
of the Dutch in the East Indies, whose aim was to destroy the British settlements in that country;
an aim that would have been accomplished, had not the king's victorious arms brought them to
reason, and obliged them to sue for an accommodation. He told them his majesty would willingly
believe their high mightinesses had given no order for proceeding to such extremities, and
that the directors of their India company had no share in the transaction: nevertheless, he
(the ambassador) was ordered to demand signal satisfaction, in the name of the king his master;
that all who should be found to have shared in the offence, so manifestly tending to the destruction
of the English settlements in that country, should be exemplarily punished; and that their
high mightinesses should confirm the stipulations agreed upon immediately after the action
by the directors of the respective companies, in consideration of which agreement the Dutch
ships were restored, after their commanders acknowledged their fault, in owning themselves
the aggressors. To this remonstrance the states-general replied, that nothing of what was laid
to the charge of their subjects had yet reached their knowledge: but they requested his Britannic
majesty to suspend his judgment until he should be made perfectly acquainted with the grounds
of those disputes; and they promised he should have reason to be satisfied with the exemplary
punishment that would be inflicted upon all who should be found concerned in violating the
peace between the two nations. *

     * In the month of March, the states of Holland and West
     Friesland having, after warm debates, agreed to the proposed
     match between the princess Caroline, sister to the prince of
     Orange, and the prince of Nassau Weilbourg, the nuptials
     were solemnized at the Hague with great magnificence.

STATE OF THE POWERS AT WAR.

The war in Germany still raged with unrelenting fury, and the mutual rancour of the contending
parties seemed to derive fresh force from their mutual disappointments; at least the house
of Austria seemed still implacable, and obstinately bent upon terminating the war with the
destruction of the Prussian monarch. Her allies, however, seemed less actuated by the spirit
of revenge. The French king had sustained so much damage and disgrace in the course of the
war, that his resources failed, and his finances fell into disorder; he could no longer afford
the subsidies he had promised to different powers; while his subjects clamoured aloud at the
burden of impositions, the ruin of trade, and the repeated dishonour entailed upon the arms
of France. The czarina's zeal for the alliance was evidently cooled by the irregular and defective
payments of the subsidies she had stipulated. Perhaps she was disappointed in her hope of conquest,
and chagrined to see her armies retire from Germany at the approach of every winter; and the
British ministry did not fail to exert all their influence to detach her from the confederacy
in which she had embarked. Sweden still languished in an effectual parade of hostilities against
the house of Bran-denburgh; but the French interest began to lose ground in the diet of that
kingdom. The king of Prussia, howsoever exhausted in the article of men, betrayed no symptom
of apprehension, and made no advance towards a pacification with his adversaries. He had employed
the winter in recruiting his armies by every expedient his fertile genius could devise; in
levying contributions to reinforce the vast subsidy he received from England, in filling magazines,
and making every preparation for a vigorous campaign. In Westphalia, the same foresight and
activity were exerted by prince Ferdinand of Brunswick, who in the beginning of summer found
himself at the head of a very numerous army, paid by Great Britain, and strengthened by two-and-twenty
thousand national troops.

DEATH OF THE LANDGRAVE OF HESSE-CASSEL.

No alteration in the terms of this alliance was produced by the death of William, landgrave
of Hesse-Cassel, who breathed his last, in an advanced age, on the twenty-eighth day of January,
at Rintelen upon the Weser. He was succeeded in the landgraviate by his son Frederick, whose
consort, the princess Mary, daughter to the king of Great Britain, now, in quality of governess
of her children, assumed the regency and administration of the county of Hanau-Muntzenberg,
by virtue of the settlement made in the lifetime of her father-in-law, and confirmed by her
husband. She had for some years been separated from him, and resided with his father, at whose
decease she retired with her children to the city of Zell. The present landgrave, who lived
at Magdebourg as vice-governor under the kin g of Prussia, no sooner learned the news of his
father's death, than he sent an intimation of it to that prince and the king of Great Britain;
declaring, at the same time, that he would scrupulously adhere to the engagements of his predecessor.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

OFFERS MADE BY THE NEUTRAL POWERS, &c.

The advances towards a peace, which had been made in the preceding year by the kings of England
and Prussia, in their declaration published at the Hague by prince Louis of Brunswick, seemed
to infuse in the neutral powers a good opinion of their moderation. We have already seen that
the king of Spain offered his best offices in quality of mediator. When a congress was proposed,
the states-general made an offer of Breda, as a place proper for the negotiation. The king
of Great Britain, by the mouth of his ambassador, thanked their high mightinesses for the sincere
desire they expressed to put an end to the ravages of war, which had extended desolation over
the face of Europe: he readily closed with their gracious offer; and in consequence of his
high regard and invariable friendship for their high mightinesses, wished earnestly that it
might be acceptable to the other powers at war. The French king expressed his sentiments nearly
to the same purpose. His ambassador declared, that his most christian majesty was highly sensible
of the offer they had made of Breda for holding the congress; that, in order to give a fresh
proof of his sincere desire to increase the good harmony that subsisted between him and the
states-general, he accepted their offer with pleasure; butas he could take no step without
the concurrence of his high allies, he was obliged to wait for their answer, which could not
fail to be favourable, if nothing remained to be settled but the place for holding the congress.
King Stanislaus having written a letter to his Britannic majesty, offering the city of Nancy
for the same purpose, he received a civil answer, expressing the king of England's sense of
his obliging offer, which however he declined, as a place not conveniently situated for all
the powers interested in the great works of pacification. Civilities of the same nature likewise
passed between the sovereign of Nancy and the king of Prussia. As the proposals for an accommodation
made by the king of England and his allies might have left an unfavourable impression of their
adversaries had they been altogether declined, the court of Vienna was prevailed upon to concur
with her allies in a declaration professing their desire of peace; which declaration was delivered,
on the third day of April, by the Austrian minister residing at the Hague, to his serene highness
prince Louis of Brunswick; and a paper of the same nature was also delivered to him separately
by the French and Russian ministers. [558] [See note 4 N, at the end of this Vol.] These professions,
however, did not interrupt the operations of the campaign.

SKIRMISHES IN WESTPHALIA.

Though the French army under the mareschal duke de Broglio remained in cantonment in the neighbourhood
of Friedberg, and prince Ferdinand had retired from Corsdorff to Marburg, where in the beginning
of January he established his head-quarters, nevertheless the winter was by no means inactive.
As far back as the twenty-fifth day of December, the duke de Broglio, having called in his
detachments, attempted to surprise the allied army by a forced march to Kleinlinnes; but finding
them prepared to give him a warm reception, nothing but a cannonade ensued, and he retreated
to his former quarters. On the twenty-ninth, colonel Luckner, at the head of the Hanoverian
hunters, fell in with a detachment of the enemy, consisting of four hundred men, under the
command of count Muret. These he attacked with such vigour, that the count was made prisoner,
and all his party either killed or taken, except two-and-twenty, who escaped. On the third
day of January, the marquis de Vogue attacked the town of Herborn, which he carried, and took
a small detachment of the allies who were posted there. At the same time the marquis Dauvet
made himself master of Dillembourg, the garrison of the allied troops being obliged to retire
into the castle, where they were closely besieged. Prince Ferdinand no sooner understood their
situation, than he began his march with a strong detachment for their relief, on the seventh
day of the month, when he attacked and totally defeated the besiegers, took seven hundred prisoners,
including forty officers, with seven pair of colours, and two pieces of cannon. On that very
day, the Highlanders, under major Keith, supported by the hussars of Luckner, who commanded
the whole detachment, attacked the village of Ryebach, where Beaufremont's regiment of dragoons
was posted on the side of Dillembourg, and routed them with great slaughter. The greater part
of the regiment was killed, and many prisoners were taken, together with two hundred horses,
and all their baggage. The Highlanders distinguished themselves on this occasion by their intrepidity,
which was the more remarkable, as they were no other than raw recruits, just arrived from their
own country, and altogether unacquainted with discipline. On the eighth day of January, M.
de St. Germain advanced on the left of the allies with the grenadiers of the French army, supported
by eight battalions, and a body of dragoons; but he was encountered by the duke of Holstein,
at the head of a strong detachment, in the neighbourhood of Ersdorff, who, by dint of a furious
cannonade, obliged him to retreat with precipitation. After this attempt the French parties
disappeared, and their army retired into winter-quarters, in and about Franckfort on the Maine;
while prince Ferdinand quartered the allies at Cassel, Paderborn, Munster, and Osnabruck; this
last place being allotted to the British troops, as being the nearest to Embden, where the
reinforcements from Britain were to be landed. In the beginning of February, the hereditary
prince of Brunswick, with the detachment of the allied army under his command, began his march
from Chemnitz in Saxony for Westphalia, where he safely arrived, after having assisted at a
long conference in Hamelen, with his father the reigning duke, his uncle prince Ferdinand,
and some principal members of the regency of Hanover.

The French general continued to send out detachments to beat up the quarters of the allies,
and lay their towns under contribution. In the beginning of March, the marquis de Blaisel marched
at the head of two thousand four hundred men from Giessen, where he commanded, to Marburg,
forced the gates of the town, and compelled the garrison of the allies to take shelter in the
castle. As he could not pretend to undertake the siege of the fortress, by the fire of which
he was exceedingly galled, he demanded of the town a contribution of one hundred thousand florins,
and carried some of the magistrates along with him as hostages for the payment of this imposition.
He afterwards appeared at Hombourg, Alsfeldt, and Hartzberg, the frontier posts of the allies;
but did not think proper to attack either, because he perceived that measures were taken for
his reception. The French, with all their boasted politeness and humanity, are sometimes found
as brutal and rapacious as the most barbarous enemy. On pretence of taking umbrage at the town
of Hanau Muntzenberg, for having without their permission acknowledged the regency of the landgraviate
of Hesse-Cassel, they, in the month of February, ordered the magistrates of that place to pay,
within the term of twenty-four hours, the sum of seven hundred and fifty thousand livres, on
pain of being subjected to plunder. This order was signified by the prince de Robecq; to whom
the magistrates represented the impossibility of raising such a sum, as the country was totally
exhausted, and their credit absolutely destroyed, in consequence of their inability to pay
the interest of the capitals negotiated in the course of the preceding year. He still insisted
upon their finding the money before night; they offered to pay eighty thousand florins, which
they raised with the utmost difficulty, and begged the payment of the rest might be postponed
for a few weeks: but their request was rejected with disdain. The garrison was reinforced by
two battalions, and four squadrons dispersed in the principal squares and markets of the city,
and the gates were shut. They even planted cannon in the streets, and tarred matches were fixed
to many houses, in order to intimidate the inhabitants. These expedients proving ineffectual,
detachments of grenadiers entered the houses of the principal magistrates and merchants, from
whence they removed all their best effects to the town-hall, where they were kept in deposit,
until they were redeemed with all the money that could possibly be raised. This exaction, so
little to the honour of a civilized nation, the French minister declared to the diet at Ratisbon
was agreeable to the instructions of his most christian majesty.

By way of retaliation for the cruelty practised at Hanau, a detachment of the allied army under
general Luckner was sent to raise contributions in Fulda, and actually carried off hostages
from that city; but retired before a strong body of the enemy, who took possession of the place.
From hence the French marched, in their turn, to plunder the towns of Hirchfeldt and Vacha.
Accordingly, they appeared at Vacha, situated on the frontiers of Hesse, and formed the head
of the chain of cantonments which the allies had on the Werra. This place was attacked with
such vigour, that colonel Frey-tag, who commanded the post, was obliged to abandon the town:
but he maintained himself on a rising ground in the neighbourhood, where he amused the enemy
until two battalions of grenadiers came to his assistance. Thus reinforced, he pursued the
French for three leagues, and drove them with considerable loss from Giessa, where they had
resolved to fix their quarters. These skirmishes happened in the beginning of May, when the
grand armies were just in motion to begin the campaign.

SITUATION OF THE FRENCH ARMIES.

By this time the forces under the mareschal duke de Broglio were augmented to one hundred thousand;
while the count de St. Germain commanded a separate army on the Rhine, consisting of thirty
thousand men, assembled from the quarters of Dusseldorp, Cologn, Cleves, and Wesel. The second
corps was intended to divide the allied army, wrhich, by such a division, would be considerably
weakened; and the French court threatened to form a third army under the prince de Soubise;
but this did not appear. The duke de Broglio was in such high favour with the French ministry
at this juncture, that he was promoted over the heads of many old generals, who now demanded
and obtained their dismission; and every step was taken to render the campaign glorious to
this admired commander: but notwithstanding all their care, and his own exertion, he found
it impossible to take the field early in the season, from want of forage for his cavalry. While
his quarters were established at Franckfort, his troops were plentifully supplied with all
sorts of provisions from the Upper Rhine; but this convenience depended upon his being master
of the course of the river; but he could not move from this position without forfeiting the
advantage, and providing magazines for the use of his forces; so that he was obliged to lie
inactive until he could have the benefit of green forage in his march. The same inconveniences
operated more powerfully on the side of prince Ferdinand, who, being in an exhausted country,
was obliged to fall back as far as Paderborn, and draw his supplies from Hamburg and Bremen
on the Elbe and the Weser. By this time, however, he had received a reinforcement of British
troops from Embden, under the direction of major-general Griffin; and before the end of the
campaign, the forces of that nation in Germany were augmented to five-and-twenty thousand;
a greater number than had served at one time upon the continent for two centuries. The allied
army marched from their cantonments on the fifth day of May, and proceeded by the way of Paderborn
to Fritzlar, where, on the twentieth, they encamped: but part of the troops left in the bishopric
of Munster, under general Sporcken, were ordered to form a camp at Dulmen, to make head against
the French corps commanded by the count de St. Germain.

EXPLOIT OF COLONEL LUCKNER.

General Imhoff was sent with a detachment to Kirchaven on the Orme: and general Gilsoe, with
another corps, advanced to the neighbourhood of Hirchfeldt on the Fulda. The former of these
having ordered colonel Luckner to scour the country with a body of hussars, that officer, on
the twenty-fourth of May, fell in with a French patrole, which gave the alarm at Butzbach;
when the garrison of that place, amounting to five hundred piquets, under general Waldemar,
fled with great precipitation. Being, however, pursued, and overtaken near a wood, they were
routed and dispersed. Colonel Luckner, entering Butzbach, found a considerable quantity of
forage, flour, wine, and equipage, belonging to the fugitives. What he could not carry off
he distributed among the poor inhabitants, and returned to general Imhoff's camp at Ameneberg,
with about an hundred prisoners. This excursion alarmed the enemy to such a degree, that their
whole army was put in motion; and the duke de Broglio in person advanced with a large body
of troops as far as Friedberg: but undemanding the allies had not quitted their camp at Fritzlar,
he returned to Franckfort, after having cantoned that part of his army in the Wetteraw. This
alarm was not so mortifying as the secession of the Wirtemberg troops, amounting to ten thousand
men, commanded by their duke in person, who left the French army in disgust, and returned to
his own country. The imperial army, under the prince de Deuxponts, quartered at Bamberg, began
their march to Naumberg on the twentieth of May: but one of their detachments of cavalry having
received a check from a body of Prussians near Lutzen, they fell back; and on the fourth day
of June encamped at Litchenfels upon the Maine. The small detachments of the grand armies,
as well as those belonging to the bodies commanded by general Sporcken and the count de St.
Germain, in the neighbourhood of Dusseldorp, skirmished with various success. The hereditary
prince of Brunswick being detached from the allied army, with some battalions of grenadiers,
and two regiments of English dragoons, advanced to the country of Fulda, where he was joined
by the troops under general Gilsoe, and achieved some inconsiderable exploits, particularly
at Hosenfeldt and Zielbach, where he surprised and took divers parties of the enemy.

By the twenty-fourth of June, prince Ferdinand, quitting his situation at Fritzlar, marched
to Frillendorf, and encamped on the hills between Ziegenheim and Freysa; general Imhoff commanding
at a small distance on the right, and the hereditary prince, now returned from Fulda, being
posted on the left of the army. In the meantime, the duke de Broglio, assembling his forces
between Merlau and Laubach, advanced to Neustadt, where he encamped on the twenty-eighth day
of the month, and at the same time occupied a strong post at Wassenburgh. His intention was
to penetrate through the country of Hesse into Hanover, and make himself entirely master of
that electorate. With this view he resolved to effect a junction with the count de St. Germain,
whom he directed to advance towards Brilau and Corbach; while he himself, decamping from Neustadt
on the eighth day of July, advanced by the way of Frankenburg. Prince Ferdinand, having received
intelligence that the count de St. Germain was in motion, began his march from Ziegenheim,
and on the ninth day of July reached the heights of Bruneau, in the neighbourhood of Wildungen.

THE HEREDITARY PRINCE OF BRUNSWICK DEFEATED.

The hereditary prince, at the head of the advanced corps, reinforced with some battalions and
squadrons under major-general Griffin, was sent forward to Sauxenhausen, whither the army followed
the next morning. The hereditary prince continuing to advance, found the enemy already formed
at Corbach; but judging their whole force did not exceed ten thousand infantry and seventeen
squadrons, and being impelled by the impetuosity of his own courage, he resolved to give them
battle. He accordingly attacked them about two in the afternoon, and the action became very
warm and obstinate; but the enemy being continually reinforced with fresh battalions, and having
the advantage of a numerous artillery, all the prince's efforts were ineffectual. Prince Ferdinand,
being at too great a distance to sustain him, sent him an order to rejoin the army which was
by this time formed at Sauxenhausen. He forthwith made dispositions for a retreat, which however
was attended with great confusion. The enemy observing the disorder of the allied troops, plied
their artillery with redoubled diligence, while a powerful body of their cavalry charged with
great vivacity. In all likelihood the whole infantry of the allies would have been cut off,
had not the hereditary prince made a diversion in their favour, by charging in person at the
head of the British dragoons, who acted with their usual gallantry and effect. This respite
enabled the infantry to accomplish their retreat to Sauxenhausen; but they lost above five
hundred men and fifteen pieces of cannon. General count Kielmansegge, major-general Griffin,
and major Hill, of Bland's dragoons, distinguished themselves by their conduct and intrepidity
on this occasion. The hereditary prince exposed his life in the hottest part of the action,
and received a slight wound in the shoulder, which gave him far less disturbance than he felt
from the chagrin and mortification produced by his defeat.

Many days, however, did not pass before he found an opportunity of retaliating this disgrace.
Prince Ferdinand, receiving advice that a body of the enemy, commanded by major-general Glaubitz,
had advanced on the left of the allies to Ziegenheim, detached the hereditary prince to oppose
them, at the head of six battalions of Hanoverians and Hessians, with Elliot's regiment of
English light-horse, Luckner's hussars, and two brigades of chasseurs; on the sixteenth day
of the month, he engaged the enemy near the village of Exdorf, and a very warm action ensued,
in which Elliot's regiment signalized themselves remarkably by repeated charges.*

     * Though this was the first time that Elliot's regiment
     appeared in the field, it performed wonders. They charged
     five different times, and broke through the enemy at every
     charge; but these exploits they did not achieve without
     sustaining a heavy loss in officers, men, and horses.

At length victory declared for the allies. Five battalions of the enemy, including the commander-in-chief
and the prince of Anhalt Cothen, were taken, with six pieces of cannon, all their arms, baggage,
and artillery. During these transactions, the mareschal duke de Broglio remained encamped on
the heights of Corbach. He had, in advancing from Franckfort, left detachments to reduce the
castles of Marburg and Dillembourg, which were occupied by the allies, and they fell into his
hands, the garrison of both being obliged to surrender prisoners of war. These were but inconsiderable
conquests; nor did the progress of the French general equal the idea which had been formed
of his talents and activity. The count de St. Germain, who was his senior officer, and believed
by many to be at least his equal in capacity, having now joined his corps to the grand army,
and conceiving disgust at his being obliged to serve under the duke de Broglio, relinquished
his command, in which he was succeeded by the chevalier de Muy. At the same time, the marquis
de Voyer and the count de Luc, two generals of experience and reputation, quitted the army,
and returned to France, actuated by the same motives.

VICTORY OBTAINED BY THE ALLIES.

The allied army having moved their camp from Saxenhansen to the village of Kalle near Cassel,
remained in that situation till the thirtieth day of July, when the troops were again put in
motion. The chevalier de Muy, having passed the Dymel at Stradtbergen, with the reserve of
the French army, amounting to thirty-five thousand men, extended this body down the banks of
the river, in order to cut off the communication of the allies with Westphalia; while the duke
de Broglio marched up with his main wing to their camp at Kalle, and prince Xavier of Saxony,
who commanded their reserve on the left, advanced towards Cassel; prince Ferdinand, leaving
general Kielmansegge with a body of troops for the defence of the city, decamped in the night
of the thirtieth, and passed the Dymel without loss between Gibenau and Dringleberg. The hereditary
prince, who had the preceding day passed the same river, in order to reinforce general Sporcken,
who was posted near Corbeke, now reconnoitred the position of the enemy, and found them possessed
of a very advantageous camp between Warbourg and Ochsendorff. Prince Ferdinand having resolved
to attack them, ordered the hereditary prince and general Sporcken to turn their left, while
he himself advanced against their front, with the main body of the army.. The enemy was accordingly
attacked almost at the same instant, both in flank and in rear, with equal impetuosity and
success. As the infantry of the allied army could not march fast enough to charge at the same
time, the marquis of Granby was ordered to advance with the cavalry of the right; and the brigade
of English artillery, commanded by captain Phillips, made such expedition, that they were up
in time to second the attack in a most surprising manner. The French cavalry, though very numerous,
retired at the approach of the marquis, except three squadrons, who stood the charge and were
immediately broken. Then the English horse fell upon the enemy's infantry, which suffered greatly,
while the town of Warbourg was assaulted by the Britannic legion. The French, finding themselves
hard pressed on both flanks, as well in front as in rear, retired precipitately, with considerable
damage, occasioned chiefly by the British cannon and dragoons, and many were drowned in attempting
to ford the Dymel. The battalion of Maxwell, and a brigade under colonel Beckwith, composed
of grenadiers and highlanders, distinguished themselves remarkably on this occasion. The enemy
left about fifteen hundred men killed or wounded on the field of battle; with some colours,
and ten pieces of cannon; and about the same number were made prisoners. Monsieur de Muy lay
all night under arms, on the heights of Volk-Missen, from whence he next day retired towards
Wolfshagen. On the evening of the battle, the marquis of Granby received orders to pass the
river in pursuit of them, with twelve British battalions and ten squadrons, and encamped at
Wilda, about four miles from Warbourg, the heights of which were possessed by the enemy's grand
army. [561] [See note 4 O, at the end of this Vol.] By this success, prince Ferdinand was enabled
to maintain his communication with Westphalia, and keep the enemy at a distance from the heart
of Hanover; but to these objects he sacrificed the country of Cassel: for prince Xavier of
Saxony, at the head of a detached body, much more numerous than that which was left under general
Kielmansegge, advanced towards Cassel, and made himself master of that city; then he reduced
Munden, Gottengen, and Eimbeck in the electorate of Hanover. All that prince Ferdinand could
do, considering how much he was out-numbered by the French, was to secure posts and passes,
with a view to retard their progress, and employ detachments to harass and surprise their advanced
parties. In a few days after the action at Warbourg, general Luckner repulsed a French detachment
which had advanced as far as Eimbeck, and surprised another at Nordheim. At the same period,
colonel Donap, with a body of the allied army, attacked a French corps of two thousand men,
posted in the wood of Sababourg, to preserve the communication between their grand army and
their troops on the other side of the Weser; and, notwithstanding the strength of their situation,
drove them from their posts, with the loss of five hundred men, either killed or made prisoners;
but this advantage was overbalanced by the reduction of Ziegenheim, garrisoned by seven hundred
men of the allied army, who, after a vigorous resistance, were obliged to surrender themselves
prisoners of war.

On the fifth day of August, prince Ferdinand, being encamped at Buhne, received intelligence
that a considerable body of the enemy, amounting to upwards of twenty thousand men, were in
motion to make a general forage in the neighbourhood of Geismar. He passed the Dymel early
in the morning, with a body of troops and some artillery, and posted them in such an advantageous
manner, as to render the enemy's attempt totally ineffectual, although the foragers were covered
with great part of their army. On the same morning, the hereditary prince set out on an expedition
to beat up the quarters of a French detachment. Being informed that the volunteers of Clermont
and Dauphiné, to the number of one thousand, horse and foot, were cantoned at Zierenberg, at
a small distance from the French camp at Dierenberg, and passed their time in the most careless
security, he advanced towards them from his camp at Warbourg, within a league of their cantonment,
without seeing any of their posts, or meeting with any of their patrols, a circumstance that
encouraged him to beat up their quarters by surprise; for this service he pitched upon five
battalions, with a detachment of Highlanders, and eight regiments of dragoons. Leaving their
tents standing, they began their march at eight in the evening, and passed the Dymel near Warbourg.
About a league on the other side of the Dymel, at the village of Witzen, they were joined by
the light troops under major Bulow; and now the disposition was made both for entering the
town, and securing a retreat in case of being repulsed. When they were within two miles of
Zierenberg, and in sight of the fires of the enemy's grand guard, the grenadiers of Maxwell,
the regiment of Kinsley, and the Highlanders, advanced by three separate roads, and marched
in profound silence: at length the noise of their feet alarmed the French, who began to fire,
when the grenadiers proceeded at a round pace with unloaded firelocks, pushed the piquets,
slew the guard at the gate, and rushing into the town, drove everything before them with incredible
impetuosity. The attack was so sudden, and the surprise so great, that the French had not time
to assemble in any considerable number; but they began to fire from the windows; and in so
doing, exasperated the allied troops, who, bursting into the houses, slaughtered them without
mercy. Having remained in the place from two to three in the morning, they retreated with about
four hundred prisoners, including forty officers, and brought off two pieces of artillery.
This nocturnal adventure, in which the British troops displayed equal courage and activity,
was achieved with very little loss; but after all, it deserves no other appellation than that
of a partisan exploit; for it was attended with no sort of advantage to the allied army.

Considering the superiority of the French army, we cannot account for the little progress made
by the duke de Broglio, who, according to our conception, might either have given battle to
the allies with the utmost probability of success, or penetrated into the heart of Hanover,
the conquest of which seemed to be the principal object of the French ministry. Instead of
striking an important stroke, he retired from Immenhausen towards Cassel, where he fortified
his camp as if he had thought himself in danger of being attacked; and the war was carried
on by small detachments. Major Bulow, being sent with a strong party from the camp of the allied
army at Buline, surprised the town of Marburg, destroyed the French ovens, and brought off
a considerable quantity of stores and baggage, with some prisoners. He met with the same success
at Butzback, where he surprised and took two companies belonging to the regiment of Baugrave,
and retired with this body to Franckenberg, where he joined colonel Forsen. On the twelfth
day of September they made a movement towards Franckenau; and M. de Stainville, who was posted
with a body of French troops at Merdenhagen, advanced to check their progress. He came up with
their rear in the neighbourhood of Munden, and attacked them in passing the river Orck with
such vigour, that Forsen, with some of his cavalry, was taken, and Bulow obliged to abandon
some pieces of cannon. The action was just determined, when this last was reinforced by the
hereditary prince of Brunswick, who had made a forced march of five German miles, which had
fatigued the troops to such a degree, that he deferred his attack till next morning; but, in
the meantime, M. de Stainville retired towards Franckenberg. The Hanoverian general Wangenheim,
at the head of four battalions and six squadrons, had driven the enemy from the defiles of
Soheite, and encamped at Lawenthagen; but, being attacked by a superior number, he was obliged
in his turn to give way, and his retreat was not effected without the loss of two hundred men,
and some pieces of artillery. When the enemy retired, general Wangenheim repassed the Weser,
and occupied his former situation at Ussar. Meanwhile, general Luckner gained an advantage
over a detachment of French cavalry near Norten. Prince Ferdinand, when mareschal Broglio quitted
his camp at Immenhausen, made a motion of his troops, and established his head-quarters at
Geismer-wells, the residence of the landgrave of Hesse-Cassel; from thence, however, he transferred
them, about the latter end of September, to Ovilgune, on the Westphalian side of the Dymel.

THE HEREDITARY PRINCE MARCHES TO THE LOWER RHINE.

Such was the position of the two opposite grand armies, when the world was surprised by an
expedition to the Lower Rhine, made by the hereditary prince of Brunswick. Whether this excursion
was intended to hinder the French from reinforcing their army in Westphalia--or to co-operate
in the Low Countries with the armament now ready equipped in the ports of England; or to gratify
the ambition of a young prince, overboiling with courage and glowing with the desire of conquest--we
cannot explain to the satisfaction of the reader; certain it is, that the Austrian Netherlands
were at this juncture entirely destitute of troops, except the French garrisons of Ostend and
Nieuport, which were weak and inconsiderable. Had ten thousand English troops been landed on
the coast of Blankenburg, they might have taken possession of Bruges, Ghent, Brussels, and
Antwerp, without resistance, and joined the hereditary prince in the heart of the country;
in that case he would have found himself at the head of thirty thousand men, and might have
made such a diversion in favour of Hanover, as to transfer the seat of war from Westphalia
into Flanders. The empress-queen might, indeed, have complained of this invasion, as the formality
of declaring war against her had not been observed by Great Britain; but considering that she
was the declared enemy of Hanover, and had violated the barrier-treaty, in establishing which
the kingdom of Great Britain had lavished away so much blood and treasure, a step of this kind,
we apprehend, might have been taken, without any imputation of perfidy or injustice. Whatever
the motives of the prince's expedition might have been, he certainly quitted the grand army
of the allies in the month of September; and traversing Westphalia, with twenty battalions,
and as many squadrons, appeared on the Lower Ehine, marching by Schermbeck and Dusseldorp.
On the twenty-ninth day of the month he sent a large detachment over the river at Rocroot,
which surprised part of the French partisan Fischer's corps at Ehynberg, and scoured the country.
Next day, other parties, crossing at Eees and Emmerick, took possession of some redoubts which
the French had raised along the bank of the river; and here they found a number of boats sufficient
to transport the rest of the forces. Then the prince advanced to Cleves; and at his approach
the French garrison, consisting of five hundred men, under the command of M. de Barrai, retired
into the castle, which, however, they did not long defend; for on the third day of October
they capitulated, and surrendered themselves prisoners of war, after having in vain endeavoured
to obtain more favourable conditions.

A more important object was Wesel, which the prince invested, and began to besiege in form.
The approaches were made on the right of the Ehine, while the prince in person remained on
the left to cover the siege; and kept his communication open with the other side, by a bridge
above, and another below the place. He had hoped to carry it by a vigorous exertion, without
the formality of a regular siege; but he met with a warmer reception than he expected; and
his operations were retarded by heavy rains, which, by swelling the river, endangered his bridges,
and laid his trenches under water. The difficulties and delays occasioned by this circumstance
entirely frustrated his design. The French, being made acquainted with his motions, were not
slow in taking measures to anticipate his success. M. de Castries was detached after him with
thirty battalions, and thirty-eight squadrons; and, by forced marches, arrived on the fourteenth
day of October at Ehynberg, where the prince's light troops were posted. These he attacked
immediately, and compelled to abandon the post, notwithstanding all the efforts of the prince,
who commanded in person, and appeared in the warmest parts of this short but sanguinary affair.
The enemy leaving five battalions, with some squadrons, at Ehynberg, marched by the left, and
encamped behind the convent of Campen. The prince, having received intimation that M. de Castries
was not yet joined by some reinforcements that were on the march, determined to be beforehand
with them, and attempt that very night to surprise him in his camp. For this purpose he began
his march at ten in the evening, after having left four battalions, and five squadrons, under
general Beck, with instructions to observe Rhynberg, and attack that post, in case the attempt
on Campen should succeed. Before the allied forces could reach the enemy's camp, they were
under the necessity of overpowering Fischer's corps of irregulars, which occupied the convent
of Campen, at the distance of half a league in their front. This service occasioned some firing,
the noise of which alarmed the French army. Their commander formed them with great expedition,
and posted them in the wood, where they were immediately attacked, and at first obliged to
give ground; but they soon retrieved all they had lost, and sustained without flinching an
unceasing fire of musketry, from five in the morning till nine at night, when they reaped the
fruits of their perseverance. The hereditary prince, whose horse was killed under him, seeing
no prospect of success in prolonging an action which had already cost him a considerable number
of men, thought proper to give orders for a retreat, which was not effected without confusion,
and left the field of battle to the enemy. His loss on this occasion did not fall short of
sixteen hundred choice men, killed, wounded, and taken; and his loss fell chiefly on the troops
of Great Britain, who were always found in the foremost ranks of danger. All the officers,
both of infantry and dragoons, distinguished themselves remarkably, and many were dangerously
wounded. Among these, the nation regretted the loss of lord Downe, whose wounds proved mortal:
he was a young nobleman of spirit, who had lately embraced a military life, though he was not
regularly trained in the service.

Next day, which was the sixteenth of October, the enemy attacked an advanced body of the allies,
which was posted in a wood before Elverick, and extended along the Rhine. The firing of cannon
and musketry was maintained till night. Meanwhile, a column of the French infantry, commanded
by M. de Cabot, marched through Walach, and took post among the thickets, at the distance of
a quarter of a league, in the front of the prince's army. By this time the Ehine was so much
swelled by the rains and the banks of it were overflown in such a manner, that it was necessary
to repair, and move lower down, the bridge which had been thrown over that river. This work
was accordingly performed in the presence of the enemy; and the prince passing without molestation,
proceeded to Bruymen, where he fixed his head-quarters. His passing the Ehine so easily, under
the eye of a victorious army so much superior to him in number, may be counted among the fortunate
incidents of his life. Such was the issue of an expedition which exposed the projector of it
to the imputation of temerity. Whatever his aim might have been, besides the reduction of Wesel,
with the strength of which he did not seem to have been very well acquainted, he certainly
miscarried in his design; and his miscarriage was attended with a very considerable loss of
troops, occasioned not only by the action, but also by the diseases engendered from the wet
weather, the fatigue of long marches, and the want of proper conveniences; not to mention the
enormous expense in contingencies incurred by this fruitless undertaking.

In the month of November, while he lay encamped in the neighbourhood of Schermbeck, a body
of the enemy attempted to beat up his quarters; having received intimation of their design,
he immediately called in his advanced posts, and made a disposition for giving them a proper
reception. He abandoned the tents that were in the front of his camp, and posted his infantry
in ambuscade behind those that were in the rear; at the same time he ordered some regiments
of horse and hussars to fetch a compass, and fall upon the back of the enemy. This stratagem
succeeded to his wish. The French detachment, believing the allies had actually abandoned their
camp, began to pillage the tents in the utmost dis -order: then the infantry sallied from the
place where they were concealed, and fell upon them with great impetuosity: the artillery opened,
and the cavalry charged them in flank. In a word, of twelve hundred who marched from Wesel
on this expedition, scarcely two hundred escaped.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

ADVANTAGES GAINED by M. DE STAINVILLE.

The duke de Broglio endeavoured, by sundry means, to take advantage of the allied army on the
other side of the Weser, thus weakened by the absence of the troops under the hereditary prince;
but he found prince Ferdinand too vigilant to be surprised, and too strongly situated to be
attacked with any prospect of success. He therefore contented himself with ravaging the country
by detachments: he sent M. de Stainville, with a considerable body of forces, to penetrate
into the heart of Hanover; and on the fifteenth day of September, that officer, falling in
with a detachment of the allies, commanded by major Bulow, attacked them near the abbey of
Schaken. After a warm and obstinate engagement, they were defeated, and driven to Bulemont,
with the loss of their cannon, baggage, and a good number of men, who fell into the hands of
the victors. After this exploit, M. de Stainville advanced to Halberstadt, and demanded of
that capital a contribution of one million five hundred thousand livres; but the citizens had
been so drained by former exactions, that they could not raise above thirty thousand: for the
remainder the French partisan took hostages, with whom he returned to the grand army encamped
at Cassel, from whence they in a little time fell back as far as Gottengen.

THE ALLIES AND FRENCH GO INTO WINTER QUARTERS.

As the enemy retreated, prince Ferdinand advanced as far as Hurste, where he established his
head-quarters about the latter end of November. While he remained in this position, divers
skirmishes happened in the neighbourhood of Gottengen. Major-general Briedenbach, at the head
of two regiments of Hanoverian and Brunswick guards, with a detachment of cavalry, attacked,
on the twenty-ninth day of November, the French post at Heydemunden, upon the river Worrau.
This he carried, and took possession of the town, which the enemy hastily abandoned. Part of
their detachment crossed the river in boats; the rest threw themselves into an intrenchment
that covered the passage, which the allies endeavoured to force in several unsuccessful attempts,
galled as they were by the fire of the enemy's redoubts on the other side of the river. At
length M. Briedenbach was obliged to desist, and fall back into the town; from whence he retired
at midnight, after having sustained considerable damage. Prince Ferdinand had it very much
at heart to drive the French from Gottengen, and accordingly invested that city; but the French
garrison, which was numerous and well provided, made such a vigorous defence, as baffled all
the endeavours of the allies, who were moreover impeded by the rainy weather, which, added
to other considerations, prevented them from undertaking the siege in form. Nevertheless, they
kept the place blocked up from the twenty-second day of November to the twelfth of the following
month, when the garrison, in a desperate sally, took one of their principal posts, and compelled
them to raise the blockade. About the middle of December, prince Ferdinand retired into winter-quarters;
he himself residing at Uslar, and the English troops being cantoned in the bishopric of Paderborn.
Thus the enemy were left in possession of Hesse, and the whole country to the eastward of the
Weser, to the frontiers of the electorate of Hanover. If the allied army had not been weakened
for the sake of a rash, ill-concerted, and unsuccessful expedition to the Lower Rhine, in all
probability the French would have been obliged to abandon the footing they had gained in the
course of this campaign; and, in particular, to retreat from Gottengen, which they now maintained
and fortified with great diligence and circumspection.

CHAPTER XX.

     Exploit of the Swedes in Pomerania..... Skirmishes between
     the Prussians and Austrians in Saxony..... Position of the
     Armies in Saxony and Silesia..... General Laudohn defeats
     General Fouquet, and reduces Glatz..... and then undertakes
     the Siege of Breslau, which is relieved by Prince Henry of
     Prussia..... The King of Prussia makes an unsuccessful
     Attempt upon Dresden..... He marches into Silesia.....
     Defeats General Laudohn, and raises the Blockade of
     Schweidnitz..... Action between General Hulsen and the
     Imperial Army in Saxony..... Dangerous Situation of the
     Prussian Monarch..... The Russians and Austrians make an
     Irruption into Brandenburgh, and possess themselves of
     Berlin..... The Ring of Prussia defeats the Austrians at
     Torgau..... Both Armies go into Quarters of Cantonment.....
     The Diets of Poland and Sweden assembled..... Intimation
     given by the King of Prussia to the States of
     Westphalia..... King of Poland's Remonstrance..... Reduction
     of Pondicherry..... Part of the British Squadron wrecked in
     a Storm..... Death of King George II..... His Character.....
     Recapitulation of the principal Events of his Reign..... His
     Death universally lamented..... Account of the Commerce of
     Great Britain..... State of Religion and Philosophy.....
     Fanaticism..... Metaphysics and Medicine..... Mechanics.....
     Genius..... Music..... Painting, and Sculpture

EXPLOIT OF THE SWEDES IN POMERANIA.

The king of Prussia, after all his labours, notwithstanding the great talents he had displayed,
and the incredible efforts he had made, still found himself surrounded by his enemies, and
in danger of being-crushed by their closing and contracting their circle. Even the Swedes,
who had languished so long, seemed to be roused to exertion in Pomerania, during the severity
of the winter season. The Prussian general Manteuffel had, on the twentieth day of January,
passed the river Peene, overthrown the advanced posts of the enemy at Ziethen, and penetrated
as far as the neighbourhood of Griessewalde; but finding the Swedes on their guard, he returned
to Anclam, where his head-quarters were established. This insult was soon retaliated with interest.
On the twenty-eighth day of the month, at five in the morning, a body of Swedes attacked the
Prussian troops posted in the suburbs of Anclam, on the other side of the Peene, and drove
them into the city, which they entered pell-mell. General Manteuffel, being alarmed, endeavoured
to rally the troops; but was wounded and taken, with about two hundred men, and three pieces
of cannon. The victors, having achieved this exploit, returned to their own quarters. As for
the Russian army, which had wintered on the other side of the Vistula, the season was pretty
far advanced before it could take the field; though general Tottleben was detached from it,
about the beginning of June, at the head of ten thousand cossacks, and other light troops,
with which he made an irruption into Pomerania, and established his head-quarters at Belgarden.

SKIRMISHES BETWEEN THE PRUSSIANS AND

AUSTRIANS IN SAXONY.

At the beginning of the campaign, the king of Prussia's chief aim was to take measures for
the preservation of Silesia, the conquest of which seemed to be the principal object with the
court of Vienna. While the Austrian army, under mareschal count Daun, lay strongly intrenched
in the neighbourhood of Dresden, the king of Prussia had endeavoured, in the month of December,
to make him quit that advantageous situation, by cutting off his provisions, and making an
irruption into Bohemia. For these purposes he had taken possession of Dippeswalde, Maxen, and
Pretchendorff, as if he intended to enter Bohemia by the way of Passberg: but this scheme being
found impracticable, he returned to his camp at Fribourg, and in January the Prussian and Austrian
armies were cantoned so near each other, that daily skirmishes were fought with various success.
The head of the Prussian camp was formed by a body of four thousand men under general Zettwitz,
who, on the twenty-ninth day of January, was attacked with such impetuosity by the Austrian
general Beck, that he retreated in great confusion to Torgau, with the loss of five hundred
men, eight pieces of artillery, and a considerable quantity of new clothing and other baggage.
Another advantage of the same nature was gained by the Austrians at Neustadt, over a small
body of Prussians who occupied that city. In the month of Maroh, general Laudohn advanced with
a strong detachment of horse and foot, in order to surprise the Prussians, who, in attempting
to effect a retreat to Steinau, were surrounded accordingly, and very roughly handled. General
Laudohn summoned them twice by sound of trumpet to lay down their arms; but their commanders,
the captains Blumenthal and Zettwitz, rejecting the proposal with disdain, the enemy attacked
them on all hands with a great superiority of number. In this emergency the Prussian captains
formed their troops into a square, and by a close continued fire kept the enemy at bay; until,
perceiving that the Croats had taken possession of a wood between Siebenhausen and Steinau,
they, in apprehension of being intercepted, abandoned their baggage, and forced their way to
Steinau, which they reached with great difficulty, having been continually harassed by the
Austrians, who paid dear for this advantage. Several other petty exploits of this kind were
achieved by detachments on both sides, before the campaign was begun by the grand armies.

POSITION OF THE ARMIES IN SAXONY AND SILESIA.

Towards the end of April the king of Prussia altered his position, and withdrew that part of
his chain of cantonments, extending from the forest of Thurundt to the right of the Elbe. He
now took possession of a very strong camp between the Elbe and the Mulda, which he intrenched
in every part that was accessible, and fortified with two hundred and fifty pieces of cannon.
By these precautions he was enabled to keep his ground against the army of count Daun, and
at the same time detach a body of troops, as a reinforcement to his brother prince Henry, who
assembled a separate army near Franckfort upon the Oder, that he might be at hand either to
oppose the Russians, or march to the relief of Silesia, which the enemy was bent upon invading.
It was for this purpose that the Austrian general Laudohn advanced, with a considerable army,
into Lusatia about the beginning of May; and general Beck, with another body of troops, took
possession of Corbus: meanwhile count Daun continued in his old situation on the Elbe; general
Lascy formed a small detached army upon the frontiers of Saxony, to the southward of Dresden;
and the prince de Deuxponts marched into the same neighbourhood with the army of the empire.
Prince Henry of Prussia having encamped with his army for some time at Sagan, in Silesia, moved
from thence to Gorlitz, in Lusatia, to observe the motions of general Laudohn, encamped at
Koningsgratz; from whence, in the beginning of June, he marched into the country of Glatz,
and advanced to the neighbourhood of Schweidnitz, which he seemed determined to besiege, having
a train of eight pieces of cannon. With a view to thwart his designs, prince Henry reinforced
the body of troops under general Fouquet; and at the same time he sent a detachment into Pomerania,
under colonel Lessow, who defeated the rear guard of general Tottleben, and compelled that
officer to evacuate Pomerania. By this time, however, mareschal Soltikoff had arrived from
Petersburg, and taken the command of the grand Russian army, which passed the Vistula in June,
and began its march towards the frontiers of Silesia.

GEN. LAUDOHN DEFEATS GEN. FOUQUET, AND REDUCES GLATZ.

In the month of June, general Laudohn made an unsuccessful attempt to carry Glatz by assault;
but he succeeded better in his next enterprise. Understanding that general Fouquet, who occupied
the posts at Landshut, had weakened himself by sending off detachments under the majors-general
Zeithen and Grant, he resolved to attack him with such a superiority of number that he should
not be able to resist. Accordingly, on the the twenty-third day of June, at two in the morning,
he began the assault with his whole army upon some redoubts which Fouquet occupied; and these
were carried one after another, though not without a very desperate opposition. General Fouquet
being summoned to surrender, refused to submit; and having received two wounds, was at length
taken prisoner: about three thousand of his men escaped to Breslan; the rest were killed or
taken: but the loss of the victors is said to have exceeded that of the vanquished. In July,
general Laudohn undertook the siege of Glatz, which was taken after a very faint resistance;
for, on the very day the batteries were opened against the place, the garrison abandoned part
of the fortifications, which the besiegers immediately occupied. The Prussians made repeated
efforts to regain the ground they had lost; but they were repulsed in all their attempts. At
length the garrison laid down their arms, and surrendered at discretion. From this tame behaviour
of the Prussians, one would imagine the garrison must have been very weak; a circumstance which
we cannot reconcile with the known sagacity of the Prussian monarch, as the place was of great
importance, on account of the immense magazine it contained, including above one hundred brass
cannon, a great number of mortars, and a vast quantity of ammunition.

Laudohn, encouraged by this success at Glatz, advanced immediately to Breslau, which he began
to bombard with great fury [564] [See Note 4 P, at the end of this Vol.]; but, before he could
make a regular attack, he found himself obliged to retire. Prince Henry of Prussia, one of
the most accomplished generals which this age produced, having received repeated intelligence
that the Russian army intended to join Laudohn at Breslau, resolved to advance and give them
battle before the purposed junction. In the latter end of July he began his march from Gleissen,
and on the last day of that month had reached Linden, near Slauve, where he understood that
Tottleben's detachment only had passed through the plains of Polnich-Lissa, and that the grand
Russian army had marched through Kosten and Gustin. The prince finding it impossible to pursue
them by that route, directed his march to Glogau, where he learned that Breslau was besieged
by general Laudohn, and immediately advanced by forced marches to its relief. Such was his
expedition, that in five days he marched above one hundred and twenty English miles; and at
his approach the Austrian general abandoned his enterprise. Thus, by his prudence and activity,
he not only prevented the junction of the Russian and Austrian armies, but also saved the capital
of Silesia; and hampered Laudohn in such a manner as subjected him to a defeat by the Prussian
monarch, to whose motions we shall now turn our attention.

THE KING OF PRUSSIA MAKES AN UNSUCCESSFUL ATTEMPT UPON DRESDEN.

Whether his design was originally upon Dresden, or he purposed to co-operate with his brother
prince Henry in Silesia, which his adversaries seemed to have pitched upon as the scene of
their operations, we cannot presume to determine; but certain it is, he, in the beginning of
July, began his march in two columns through Lusatia; and count Daun being informed of his
march, ordered his army to be put in motion. Leaving the army of the empire, and the body of
troops under Lascy, to guard Saxony in his absence, he marched with great expedition towards
Silesia, in full persuasion that the Prussian monarch had thither directed his route. On the
seventh day of July, the king knowing that Daun was now removed at a distance, repassed the
Polsnitz, which he had passed but two days before, and advanced with the van of his army towards
Lichtenberg, in order to attack the forces of general Lascy, who was posted there; but the
Austrians retired at his approach. Then the army marched to Marienstern, where the king received
intelligence that count Daun was in full march for Lauban, having already gained two marches
upon the Prussians. Perhaps it was this intimation that determined the king to change his plan,
and return to the Elbe. On the eighth day of the month he repassed the Sprehe, in the neighbourhood
of Bautzen, and marched towards Dresden with extraordinary diligence. On the thirteenth, his
army having passed the Elbe at Kadetz, on a bridge of boats, encamped between Pirna and Dresden,
which last he resolved to besiege, in hopes of reducing it before count Daun could return to
its relief. How far this expectation was well grounded, we must leave the reader to judge,
after having observed that the place was now much more defensible than it had been when the
last attempt of the Austrians upon it miscarried; that it was secured with a numerous garrison,
commanded by general Macguire, an officer of courage and experience. This governor being summoned
to surrender, answered that, having the honour to be intrusted with the defence of the capital,
he would maintain it to the last extremity. Batteries were immediately raised against the town
on both sides of the Elbe; and the poor inhabitants subjected to a dreadful visitation, that
their calamities might either drive them to despair, or move the heart of the governor to embrace
articles of capitulation; but these expedients proved ineffectual. Though the suburbs towards
the Pirna gate were attacked and carried, this advantage made no impression on general Macguire,
who made several vigorous sallies, and took every necessary precaution for the defence of the
city; encouraged moreover by the vicinity of Lascy's body, and the army of the empire, encamped
in an advantageous position near Gross Seydlitz; and confident that count Daun would hasten
to his relief. In this hope he was not disappointed. The Austrian general, finding himself
duped by the stratagem of the Prussian monarch, and being made acquainted with his enterprise
against Dresden, instantly wheeled about, and marched back with such rapidity, that on the
nineteenth day of the month he reached the neighbourhood of the capital of Saxony. In consequence
of his approach, the king of Prussia, whose heavy artillery was now arrived, redoubled his
efforts against the city, so as to reduce to ashes the cathedral church, the new square, several
noble streets, some palaces, together with the curious manufactory of porcelain. His vengeance
must have been levelled against the citizens; for it affected neither the fortifications, nor
the Austrian garrison, which count Daun found means to reinforce with sixteen battalions. This
supply, and the neighbourhood of three hostile armies, rendered it altogether impossible to
prosecute the siege with any prospect of success; the king therefore abandoned the undertaking,
withdrew his troops and artillery, and endeavoured to bring Daun to a battle, which that general
cautiously avoided.

The fate of this prince seemed now at its crisis. Notwithstanding all the efforts of his brother
prince Henry, the Russians were fast advancing to join Laudohn, who had already blocked up
Schweidnitz and Neifs, and their junction seemed to threaten the loss of all Silesia. The king
had nothing to oppose to superior numbers but superior activity, of which he determined to
avail himself without delay. Instead of making a feint towards Silesia, he resolved to march
thither in earnest; and for that purpose, crossing the Elbe, encamped at Dallwitz, on the further
bank of the river; leaving general Hulsen, with fifteen thousand men, in the intrenched camp
of Schlettow, to maintain his footing in Saxony. On the third day of August he began his march
for Silesia, followed by count Daun with the grand Austrian army; while the detached body under
Lascy took post at Reichenberg, and the imperial army encamped at Kesseldorf. Both the Prussians
and Austrians marched at the rate of one hundred miles in five days; on the tenth the king
took possession of the camp at Lidnitz; and here he seemed in danger of being quite surrounded
by the enemy, who occupied the whole ground between Parchwitz and Cossendau, an extent of thirty
miles. Count Daun's army formed the centre of this chain, possessing the heights of Wahlstadt
and Liochkirk; general Laudohn covered the ground between Jeschkendorf and Coschitz; the rising
grounds of Parchwitz were secured by general Nauendorff; and M. de Beck, who formed the left,
extended his troops beyond Cossendau. The king marched in the night of the eleventh, with a
view to turn the enemy and reach Jauer; but at break of day he discovered a new camp at Prausnitz,
which consisted of Lascy's detachment, just arrived from Lauban. The Prussians immediately
passed the Katzbach, to attack this general; but he made such a skilful disposition for a retreat
towards the army of count Daun, that he not only baffled the endeavours of the king to bring
him to action, but, by posting himself on the heights of Hennersdorff, anticipated his march
to Jauer. In vain the Prussian monarch attempted next day to turn the enemy on the side of
the mountains by Pomsen and Jagersdorff, the roads were found impassable to the ammunition
waggons, and the king returned to the camp at Lignitz.

While he remained in this situation, he received advice that four-and-twenty thousand Russians,
under count Czernichew, had thrown bridges over the Oder at Auras, where they intended to cross
that river; and he concluded the enemy had formed a design to close him in, and attack him
with their joint forces. Daun had indeed projected a plan for surprising him in the night,
and had actually put his army in motion for that purpose; but he was anticipated by the vigilance
and good fortune of the Prussian monarch. That prince reflecting, that if he should wait for
his adversaries in his camp, he ran the risk of being attacked at the same time by Lascy on
his right, by Daun in his front, and by Laudohn on his left, he altered his disposition, in
order to disconcert their operations; and, on the fourteenth day of the month, marched to the
heights of Psaffendorff, where he formed his army in order of battle. Receiving intimation
about two in the morning, that Laudohn was in full march advancing in columns by Benowitz,
he divided his army into two separate bodies. One of these remained on the ground, in order
to maintain the post against any attempts that might be made by count Daun to succour Laudohn;
and that this service might be the more effectually performed, the heights were fortified with
batteries, so judiciously disposed, as to impede and overawe the whole Austrian army. The king
having taken this precaution, wheeled about with sixteen battalions and thirty squadrons, to
fall upon Laudohn as he should advance; but that general knew nothing of his design, until
he himself arrived at the village of Psaffendorff, about three in the morning, when the day
dawning, and a thick fog gradually dispersing, the whole detachment of the Prussian army appeared
in order of battle, in a well-chosen situation, strengthened with a numerous train of artillery,
placed to the best advantage. Laudohn was not a little mortified to find himself caught in
his own snare, but he had advanced too far to recede; and therefore, making a virtue of necessity,
resolved to stand an engagement. With this view he formed his troops, as well as the time,
place, and circumstances would permit; and the Prussians advancing to the attack, a severe
action ensued. The king rode along the line to animate the troops, and superintended every
part of the charge; hazarding his life in the most dangerous scenes of the battle to such a
degree, that his horse was killed under him, and his clothes were shot through in several places.
The Austrians maintained the conflict with great obstinacy, until six in the morning, when
they gave ground, and were pursued to the Katzbach; beyond which the king would not allow his
troops to prosecute the advantage they had gained, that they might be able to succour the right
in case mareschal count Daun should succeed in his attempt to advance against them from Lignitz.
That general had actually begun his march to fall upon the Prussians on one side, while Laudohn
should attack them on the other; but he was not a little surprised to find they were decamped;
and when he perceived a thick cloud of smoke at a distance, he immediately comprehended the
nature of the king's management. He then attempted to advance by Lignitz; but the troops and
artillery, which had been left on the height of Psaffendorff, to dispute his march, were so
advantageously disposed, as to render all his efforts abortive. Laudohn is said to have lost
in the action above eight thousand men, killed, wounded, and taken, including eighty officers,
with twenty-three pair of colours, and eighty-two pieces of cannon; over and above this loss,
the Austrian general suffered greatly by desertion. The Prussians obtained the victory at the
expense of one general, with five hundred men killed, and twelve hundred wounded. Immediately
after the action the victor inarched to Parchwitz; while Daun detached prince Lowenstein and
general Beck with the reserve of his army, to join prince Czernichew, who had crossed the Oder
at Auras; but he was so intimidated by the defeat at Lignitz, that he forthwith repassed that
river, and prince Lowenstein retired on the side of Jauer. By this bold and well-conducted
adventure, the Prussian monarch not only escaped the most imminent hazard of a total defeat
from the joint efforts of two strong armies, but also prevented the dreaded junction of the
Eussian and Austrian forces. His business was now to open the communication with Breslau and
his brother prince Henry, whom he joined at Neumarcke. The prince, after Laudohn was obliged
to relinquish the siege of Breslau, had kept a watchful eye over the motions of the Eussian
army, which had advanced into the neighbourhood of that city; and, without all doubt, would
have bombarded it from some commanding heights, had they not been prevented by prince Henry,
who took possession of these posts, and fortified them with redoubts. The king having freed
Breslau from the neighbourhood of his enemies, and being strengthened by the junction with
his brother, left a considerable detachment under the command of general Boltze, to protect
the country against the Eussian irregulars; and advanced with his whole force to the relief
of Schweidnitz, which was blocked up by the Austrian forces under the command of the mareschal
count Daun. In his march he fell upon a separate body under general Beck, made two battalions
of Croats prisoners, and dispersed several squadrons. This achievement had such an effect upon
the enemy, that they raised the blockade, and retreated with some precipitation to the mountains
of Landshut.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

ACTION BETWEEN GENEEAL HULSEN AND THE IMPERIAL ARMY IN SAXONY.

While the king thus exerted himself, with a spirit altogether unexampled, in defending Silesia,
general Hulsen, who commanded his troops in Saxony, was exposed to the most imminent danger.
Understanding that the army of the empire had formed a design to cut off his communication
with Torgau, he quitted his camp at Meissen, and marched to Strehla. The enemy having divided
their forces into two bodies, one of them, on the twentieth clay of August, attacked an advanced
post of the Prussians; while the other was disposed in such a manner, as to overawe Hulsen's
camp, and prevent him from taking any step for the relief of his battalions, who maintained
their ground with difficulty against a superior number of assailants. In this emergency the
Prussian general ordered his cavalry to make a circuit round a rising ground, and, if possible,
charge the enemy in flank. This order was executed with equal vigour and success. They fell
upon the imperial army with such impetuosity, as drove their battalions and horse upon each
other in the utmost confusion. A considerable number of the enemy were slain, and forty-one
officers, with twelve hundred men, made prisoners. By this advantage, which was obtained at
a very small expense, general Hulsen opened for himself a way to Torgau, whither he instantly
retreated, perceiving that the whole army of the imperialists was advancing to cut off his
communication with the Elbe. This retreat furnished the enemy with a pretext for claiming the
victory.

SITUATION OF THE KING OF PRUSSIA.

After all these heroic endeavours of the Prussian monarch and his officers, his affairs remained
in such a desperate situation as seemed to presage approaching ruin; for, though in person
he commanded a numerous and well-appointed army, he found it absolutely impossible to guard
against the different detachments from the three separate armies of his adversaries. Bodies
of Austrian troops scoured the country of Lusatia; the Russians traversed part of Silesia,
and made irruptions even into Brandenburgh; the imperial army domineered in Saxony; the Swedish
army, meeting with no opposition, advanced into the heart of Pomerania; so that the king was
not only threatened on every side, but all correspondence between him and his hereditary dominions
was at this juncture intercepted.

THE RUSSIANS AND AUSTRIANS POSSESS THEMSELVES OF BERLIN.

His adversaries, having been hitherto baffled by his activity and resolution in their designs
upon Silesia, now meditated a scheme, the execution of which he could not but feel in the most
sensible manner. The Russian army being on its retreat from Silesia, count Czernichew was sent
with a strong detachment into the marche of Brandenburgh; while a numerous body of Austrians,
under Lascy and Brentano, penetrated into the same country from Saxony, with instructions to
join the Russians at the gates of Berlin. The Prussian general Hulsen, finding himself too
weak to cope with the army of the empire in Misnia, had fallen back to this capital, where
he was joined by the troops under general Werner, lately returned from Pomerania; but as their
forces, after this junction, did not exceed sixteen thousand men, and the allies advancing
against them amounted to forty thousand, they would not pretend to oppose the enemy in the
open field, nor to defend a city of such extent, and so imperfectly fortified. Such an attempt
would have only exposed their troops to ruin, without being able to save the capital, which,
on the contrary, would have been the more severely handled, in consequence of their opposition.
They therefore resolved to retire, after having repulsed the advanced guard of the Russians
under Tottleben, which attacked the gates, and even bombarded the town, before the great armies
appeared. At their approach the Prussian generals retreated, leaving three weak battalions
in the place, in hopes they might be the means of obtaining some sort of terms for the city.
They made no resistance, however; but on the first summons proposed articles of capitulation,
which being refused, they surrendered themselves prisoners of war. In favour of the city, the
foreign ministers there residing interposed their mediation with such zeal and success, that
tolerable conditions were obtained. The inhabitants were indulged with the free exercise of
their religion, and an immunity from violence to their persons and effects. The enemy promised
that the Russian irregulars should not enter the town; and that the king's palace should not
be violated. These articles being ratified, the Austrian and Russian troops entered the place,
where they totally destroyed the magazines, arsenals, and foundries, with an immense quantity
of military stores, and a great number of cannon and small arms: then they demanded the immediate
payment of eight hundred thousand guilders; and afterwards exacted a contribution of one million
nine hundred thousand German crowns. Many outrages were committed by the licentious soldiery,
in spite of all the precautions which the officers could take to preserve the most exact discipline.
The houses of the private inhabitants were tolerably protected, but the king's palaces were
subjected to the most rigorous treatment. In the royal palace of Charlottenburg they pillaged
and spoiled the rich furniture: they defaced and mutilated the valuable pictures and antique
statues collected by cardinal de Polignac, and purchased by the house of Brandenburgh. The
castle of Schonhausen, belonging to the queen, and that of Fredericksfeldt, the property of
the margrave Charles, were pillaged of effects to a very considerable value. The palace of
Potsdam was effectually protected by prince Esterhasi, who would not suffer one article of
furniture to be touched; but desired leave to take one picture of the king, and two of his
German flutes, that he might preserve them as memorials of an illustrious prince, whose heroic
character he admired. The Austrian and Russian troops entered Berlin on the ninth day of October,
and quitted it on the thirteenth, on hearing that the king was in full march to the relief
of his capital. In their retreat, by different routes, from Brandenburgh, they drove away all
the cattle and horses they could find, ravaged the country, and committed brutal outrages on
the inhabitants, which the pretence of retaliation could never excuse. The body of Russians
which entered Berlin marched from thence into Poland, by the way of Furstenwalde; while the
Austrians took the route of Saxony, from whence they had advanced into Brandenburgh. Meanwhile
the town of Wirtem-berg, in that electorate, was reduced by the duke de Deux-Ponts, commander
of the imperial army, which, in conjunction with the Austrians, made themselves masters also
of Torgau and Leipsic.

KING OF PRUSSIA DEFEATS THE AUSTRIANS AT TORGAU.

The king of Prussia, in his march through Lusatia, was still attended by count Daun, at the
head of his grand army, and both passed the Elbe about the latter end of October. The Prussian
crossed the river at Coswick, where he was joined by the troops under prince Eugene of Wirtemberg
and general Ilulsen, so that his army now amounted to eighty thousand fighting men, with whom
he resolved to strike some stroke of importance. Indeed, at this time his situation was truly
critical. General Laudohn, with a considerable body of Austrians, remained in Silesia; the
Russian army still threatened Breslau, the capital of that country. The Imperialists and Austrians
had taken possession of all the great towns in Saxony, and were masters on both sides of the
Elbe. In the eastern part of Pomerania, the Russians had invested Colberg by sea and land,
seemingly determined to reduce the place, that they might have a seaport by which they could
be supplied with provisions, ammunition, necessaries, and reinforcements, without the trouble
and inconvenience of a long and laborious march from the banks of the Vistula. On the western
side of Pomerania, the war, which had hitherto languished, was renewed by the Swedes with uncommon
vivacity. They passed the river Pene without opposition; and obliging general Stutterheim to
retreat, advanced as far as Stransberg. That officer, however, being reinforced, attacked a
Swedish post at Passelvalik, slew about five hundred of the enemy, and took an equal number,
with six pieces of cannon; but he was not numerous enough to keep the field against their whole
army. Thus the Prussian monarch saw himself obliged to abandon Silesia, deprived of all the
places he held in Saxony, which had been his best resource; and in danger of being driven into
his hereditary country of Brandenburgh, which was unable either to maintain, or even to recruit,
his army. On this emergency he resolved to make one desperate effort against the grand Austrian
army under count Daun, who had passed the Elbe at Torgau, and advanced to Eulenbourg, from
whence, however, he retreated to his former camp at Torgau; and the king chose his situation
between this last place and Schilda, at Lang-Reichenbach, where the hussars attacked a body
of horse under general Brentano, and made four hundred prisoners. The right wing of the Austrians
being at Groswich, and their left at Torgau, the Prussian king determined to attack them next
day, which was the third of November. His design was to march through the wood of Torgau by
three different routes, with thirty battalions and fifty squadrons of his left wing: the first
line was ordered to advance by the way of Mackrene to Neiden; the second by Peckhutte to Elsnick;
and the third, consisting of cavalry, to penetrate by the wood of Wildenhayn to Vogelsand.
On the other hand, general Ziethen was directed to take the great Leipsic road, with thirty
battalions and seventy squadrons of the right; and quitting it at the ponds of Torgau, to attack
the village of Suptitz and Groswich. The king's line, in its march, fell in with a corps of
Austrians under general Reid, who retired into the wood of Torgau; and another more considerable
body, posted in the wood of Wildenhayn, likewise retreated to Groswich, after having fired
some pieces of artillery; but the dragoons of Saint Ignon, being enclosed between two columns
of Prussian infantry, were either killed or taken. By two in the afternoon the king had penetrated
through the wood to the plain of Neiden, from whence another body of the enemy retired to Torgau,
where a continued noise of cannon and small arms declared that general Ziethen was already
engaged. The Prussians immediately advanced at a quicker pace, and passing the morasses near
Neiden, inclined to the right in three lines, and soon came to action. Daun had chosen a very
advantageous position: his right extended to Groswich, and his left to Zinne: while his infantry
occupied some eminences along the road of Leipsic, and his front was strength-ened with no
less than two hundred pieces of cannon. His second line was disposed on an extent of ground,
which terminated in hillocks towards the Elbe; and against this the king directed his attack.
He had already given his troops to understand that his affairs were in such a situation, that
they must either conquer or perish: and they began the battle with the most desperate impetuosity;
but they met with such a warm reception from the artillery, small arms, and in particular from
the Austrian carabineers, that their grenadiers were shattered and repulsed. The second charge,
though enforced with incredible vigour, was equally unsuccessful: then the king ordered his
cavalry to advance, and they fell upon some regiments of infantry with such fury as obliged
them to give way. These, however, were compelled to retire, in their turn, before about seventy
battalions of the enemy, who advanced towards Torgau, stretching with their right to the Elbe,
and their left to Zinne. While the prince of Holstein rallied his cavalry, and returned to
the charge, the third line of Prussian infantry attacked the vineyard of Suptitz, and general
Ziethen with the right wing took the enemy in rear. This disposition threw the Austrians into
disorder; which was greatly augmented by the disaster of count Daun, who was dangerously wounded
in the thigh, and carried off the field of battle. But the Prussians could not pursue their
victory, because the action had lasted until nine; and the night being unusually dark, facilitated
the retreat of the enemy, who crossed the Elbe on three bridges of boats thrown over the river
at Torgau. The victor possessed the field of battle, with seven thousand prisoners, including
two hundred officers, twenty-nine pair of colours, one standard, and about forty pieces of
cannon. The carnage was very great on both sides; about three thousand Prussians were killed,
and five thousand wounded; and, in the first attacks, two general officers, with fifteen hundred
soldiers, were made prisoners by the enemy. The king, as usual, exposed his person in every
part of the battle, and a musket-ball grazed upon his breast. In the morning, the king of Prussia
entered Torgau; then he secured Meissen, and took possession of Fribourg: so that, in consequence
of this well-timed victory, his position was nearly the same as at the opening of the campaign.

The Austrians, however, notwithstanding this check, maintained their ground in the neighbourhood
of Dresden; while the Prussians were distributed in quarters of cantonment in and about Leipsic
and Meissen. As the Austrian general had, after the battle, recalled his detachments, general
Laudohn abandoned Landshut, wrhich again fell into the hands of the Prussians, and the Imperial
army was obliged to retire into Franconia. The Swedes having penetrated a great way into Pom-crania,
returned again to their winter-quarters at Stralsund; and the Russian generals measured back
their way to the Vistula: so that the confederates gained little else in the course of this
campaign but the contributions which they raised in Berlin, and the open country of Brandenburgh.
Had the allies been heartily bent upon crushing the Prussian monarch, one would imagine the
Russians and Swedes might have joined their forces in Pomerania, and made good their winter-quarters
in Brandenburgh, where they could have been supplied with magazines from the Baltic, and been
at hand to commence their operations in the spring; but, in all probability, such an establishment
in the empire would have given umbrage to the Germanic body.

DIETS of POLAND AND SWEDEN ASSEMBLED.

The diet of Poland being assembled in the beginning of October, the king entertained the most
sanguine hope they would take some resolution in his favour, but the partisans of Prussia frustrated
all his endeavours: one of the deputies protesting against holding a diet while there were
foreign troops in the kingdom, the assembly broke up in a tumultuous manner, even before they
had chosen a mareschal. The diet of Sweden, which was convoked about the same period, seemed
determined to proceed upon business. They elected count Axel Person their grand mareschal,
in opposition to count Horn, by a great majority; which was an unlucky circumstance for the
Prussian interest at Stockholm, inasmuch as the same majority obstinately persisted in opinion,
that the war should be prosecuted in the spring with redoubled vigour, and the army in Germany
reinforced to the number of at least thirty thousand fighting men. This unfavourable circumstance
made but little impression upon the Prussian monarch, who had maintained his ground with surprising
resolution and success since the beginning of the campaign; and now enjoyed in prospect the
benefit of winter, which he is said to have termed his best auxiliary.

INTIMATION GIVEN TO THE STATES OF WESTPHALIA BY THE KING OF PRUSSIA.

The animosity which inflamed the contending parties was not confined to the operations in war,
but broke out, as usual, in printed declarations, which the belligerent powers diffused all
over Europe. In the beginning of the season, the states of the circle of Westphalia had been
required, by the Imperial court, to finish their contingent of troops against the king of Prussia,
or to commute for this contingent with a sum of money. In consequence of this demand, some
of the Westphalian estates had sent deputies to confer with the assembly of the circle of Cologn;
and to these the king signified, by a declaration dated at Munster, that as this demand of
money, instead of troops, was no less extraordinary than contrary to the constitutions of the
empire, should they comply with it, or even continue to assist his enemies either with troops
or money, he would consider them as having actually taken part in the war against him and his
allies, and treat them accordingly on all occasions. This intimation produced little effect
in his favour. The duke of Mecklenburgh adhered to the opposite cause; and the elector of Cologn
co-operated with the French in their designs against Hanover. By way of retaliation for this
partiality, the Prussians ravaged the country of Mecklenburgh, and the Hanoverians levied contributions
in the territories of Cologn. The parties thus aggrieved had recourse to complaints and remonstrances.
The duke's envoy at Ratisbon communicated a rescript to the Imperial ministers, representing
that the Prussian troops under general Werner and colonel de Belling had distressed his country
in the autumn by grievous extortions; that afterwards prince Eugene of Wirtemberg, in the service
of Prussia, had demanded an exorbitant quantity of provisions, with some millions of money,
and a great number of recruits; or, in lieu of these, that the duke's forces should act under
the Prussian banner. He therefore declared that, as the country of Mecklenburgh was impoverished,
and almost depopulated, by these oppressions, the duke would find himself obliged to take measures
for the future security of his subjects, if not immediately favoured with such assistance from
the court of Vienna as would put a stop to these violent proceedings. This declaration was
by some considered as the prelude of his renouncing his engagements with the house of Austria.
As the Imperial court had threatened to put the elector of Hanover under the ban of the empire,
in consequence of the hostilities which his troops had committed in the electorate of Cologn,
his resident at Ratisbon delivered to the ministers who assisted at the diet a memorial, remonstrating
that the emperor hath no power, singly, to subject any prince to the ban, or declare him a
rebel; and that, by arrogating such a power, he exposed his authority to the same contempt
into which the pope's bulls of excommunication were so justly fallen. With respect to the elector
of Cologn, he observed that this prince was the first who commenced hostilities, by allowing
his troops to co-operate with the French in their invasion of Hanover, and by celebrating with
rejoicings the advantages which they had gained in that electorate; he therefore gave the estates
of the empire to understand, that the best way of screening their subjects from hostile treatment
would be a strict observance of neutrality in the present disputes of the empire.

THE KING OF POLAND'S REMONSTRANCE.

This was a strain much more effectual among princes and powers who are generally actuated by
interested motives, than was the repetition of complaints, equally pathetic and unavailing,
uttered by the unfortunate king of Poland, elector of Saxony. The damage done to his capital
by the last attempt of the Prussian monarch on that city, affected the old king in such a manner,
that he published at Vienna an appeal to all the powers of Europe, from the cruelty and unprecedented
outrages which distinguished the conduct of his adversaries in Saxony. All Europe pitied the
hard fate of this exiled prince, and sympathized with the disasters of his country: but in
the breasts of his enemies, reasons of state and convenience overruled the suggestions of humanity;
and his friends had hitherto exerted themselves in vain for the deliverance of his people.

REDUCTION OF PONDICHERRY.

From this detail of continental affairs, our attention is recalled to Great Britain, by an
incident of a very interesting nature; an account of which, however, we shall postpone until
we have recorded the success that, in the course of this year, attended the British arms in
the East Indies. We have already observed that colonel Coote, after having defeated the French
general Lally in the field, and reduced divers of the enemy's settlements on the coast of Coromandel,
at length cooped them up within the walls of Pondicherry, the principal seat of the French
East India company, large, populous, well-fortified, and secured with a numerous garrison,
under the immediate command of their general. In the month of October, admiral Stevens sailed
from Trincomalê with all his squadron, in order to its being refitted, except five sail of
the line, which he left under the command of captain Ilaldane, to block up Pondicherry by sea,
while Mr. Coote carried on his operations by land. By this disposition, and the vigilance of
the British officers, the place was so hampered as to be greatly distressed for want of provisions,
even before the siege could be undertaken in form; for the rainy season rendered all regular
approaches impracticable. These rains being abated by the twenty-sixth day of November, colonel
Coote directed the engineers to pitch upon proper places for erecting batteries that should
enfilade or flank the works of the garrison, without exposing their own men to any severe fire
from the enemy. Accordingly, four batteries were constructed in different places, so as to
answer these purposes, and opened altogether on the eighth day of December at midnight. Though
raised at a considerable distance, they were plied with good effect, and the besieged returned
the fire with great vivacity. This mutual cannonading continued until the twenty-ninth day
of the month, when the engineers were employed in raising another battery, near enough to effect
a breach in the north-west counter-guard and curtain. Though the approaches were retarded some
days by a violent storm, which almost ruined the works, the damage was soon repaired: a considerable
post was taken from the enemy by assault, and afterwards regained by the French grenadiers,
through the timidity of the sepoys, by whom it was occupied. By the fifteenth clay of January,
a second battery being raised within point-blank, a breach was made in the curtain: the west
face and flank of the north-west bastion were ruined, and the guns of the enemy entirely silenced.
The garrison and inhabitants of Pondicherry were now reduced to an extremity of famine which
would admit of no hesitation. General Lally sent a colonel, attended by the chief of the Jesuits,
and two civilians, to Mr. Coote, with proposals of surrendering the garrison prisoners of war,
and demanding a capitulation in behalf of the French East India company. On this last subject
he made no reply; but next morning took possession of the town and citadel, where he found
a great quantity of artillery, ammunition, small arms, and military stores; then he secured
the garrison, amounting to above two thousand Europeans. Lally made a gallant defence; and
had he been properly supplied with provisions, the conquest of the place would not have been
so easily achieved. He certainly flattered himself with the hope of being supplied; otherwise
an officer of his experience would have demanded a capitulation, before he was reduced to the
necessity of acquiescing in any terms the besieger might have thought proper to impose. That
he spared no pains to procure supplies, appears from an intercepted letter,* written by this
commander to monsieur Raymond, French resident at Pullicat...... The billet is no bad sketch
of the writer's character, which seems to have a strong tincture of oddity and extravagance.

     * "Monsieur Raymond--The English squadron is no more, sir--
     of the twelve ships they had in our road seven are lost,
     crews and all; the other four dismasted; and no more than
     one frigate hath escaped--therefore lose not an instant in
     sending chelingoes upon chelingoes, laden with rice. The
     Dutch have nothing to fear now. Besides, according to the
     law of nations, they are only restricted from sending us
     provisions in their own bottoms; and we are no longer
     blockaded by sea. The salvation of Pondicherry hath been
     once in your power already: if you neglect this opportunity
     it will be entirely your own fault--don't forget some small
     chelingoes also--offer great rewards--in four days I expect
     seventeen thousand Mahrattas. In short, risk all--attempt
     all--force all, and send us some rice, should it be but half
     a garse at a time."

PART OF THE BRITISH SQUADRON WRECKED IN A STORM.

By the reduction of Pondicherry, the French interest was annihilated on the coast of Coromandel,
and therefore of the utmost importance to the British nation. It may be doubted, however, whether
colonel Coote, with all his spirit, vigilance, and military talents, could have succeeded in
this enterprise without the assistance of the squadrons, which co-operated with him by sea,
and effectually excluded all succour from the besieged. It must be owned, for the honour of
the service, that no incident interrupted the good understanding which was maintained between
the land and sea officers, who vied with each other in contributing their utmost efforts towards
the success of the expedition. On the twenty-fifth day of December, rear-admiral Stevens arrived
with four ships of the line, having parted with rear-admiral Cornish and his division in stormy
weather: but he joined them at Pondicherry before the place was surrendered. On the first day
of January a violent tempest obliged admiral Stevens to slip his cables and to put to sea,
where he parted with the rest of the squadron; and when in three days he returned to the road
of Pondicherry, he had the mortification to find that his division had suffered severely from
the storm. The ships of war called the duke of Aquitaine and the Sunderland foundered in the
storm, and their crews perished. The Newcastle, the Queenborough, and the Protector fireship,
were driven ashore and destroyed; but the men were saved, together with the cannon, stores,
and provisions. Many other ships sustained considerable damage, which however was soon repaired.
Admiral Stevens having intercepted the letter from Lally to Raymond, (See-note *), immediately
despatched letters to the Dutch and Danish settlements on this coast, intimating that, notwithstanding
the insinuations of general Lally, he had eleven sail of the line, with two frigates, under
his command, all fit for service, in the road of Pondicherry, which was closely invested and
blockaded both by sea and land: he therefore declared, that, as in that case it was contrary
to the law of nations for any neutral power to relieve or succour the besieged, he was determined
to seize any vessel that should attempt to throw provisions into the place.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

DEATH and CHARACTER of KING GEORGE II.

While the arms of Great Britain still prospered in every effort tending to the real interest
of the nation, an event happened which for a moment obscured the splendour of her triumphs,
and could not but be very alarming to those German allies, whom her liberality had enabled
to maintain an expensive and sanguinary war of humour and ambition. On the twenty-fifth day
of October, George II. king of Great Britain, without any previous disorder, was in the morning
suddenly seized with the agony of death, at the palace at Kensington. He had risen at the usual
hour, drank his chocolate, and inquired, about the wind, as anxious for the arrival of the
foreign mails; then he opened a window of his apartment, and perceiving the weather was serene,
declared he would walk in the garden. In a few minutes after this declaration, while he remained
alone in his chamber, he fell down upon the floor; the noise of his fall brought his attendants
into the room, who lifted him on the bed, where he desired, in a faint voice, that the princess
Amelia might be called; but before she could reach the apartments he had expired. An attempt
was made to bleed him, but without effect: and indeed his malady was far beyond the reach of
art; for when the cavity of the thorax or chest was opened, and inspected by the sergeant-surgeons,
they found the right ventricle of the heart actually ruptured, and a great quantity of blood
discharged through the aperture into the surrounding pericardium; so that he must have died
instantaneously, in consequence of the effusion. The case, however, was so extraordinary, that
we question whether there is such another instance upon record. A rupture of this nature appears
the more remarkable, as it happened to a prince of a healthy constitution, unaccustomed to
excess, and far advanced beyond that period of life, when the blood might be supposed to flow
with a dangerous impetuosity.

Thus died George II. at the age of seventy-seven, after a long reign of thirty-four years,
distinguished by a variety of important events, and chequered with a vicissittide of character
and fortune. He was in his person rather lower than the middle size, well shaped, erect, with
eyes remarkably prominent, a high nose, and fair complexion. In his disposition he is said
to have been hasty, prone to anger, especially in his youth, yet soon appeased; otherwise mild,
moderate, and humane; in his way of living temperate, regular, and so methodical in every branch
of private economy, that his attention descended to objects which a great king, perhaps, had
better overlook. He was fond of military pomp and parade; and personally brave. He loved war
as a soldier--he studied it as a science; and corresponded on this subject with some of the
greatest officers whom Germany has produced. The extent of his understanding, and the splendour
of his virtue, we shall not presume to ascertain, or attempt to display; we rather wish for
opportunities to expatiate on his munificence and liberality--his generous regard to genius
and learning--his royal encouragement and protection of those arts by which a nation is at
once benefited and adorned. With respect to his government, it very seldom deviated from the
institutions of law, or encroached upon private property, or interfered with the common administration
of justice. The circumstances that chiefly marked his public character, were a predilection
for his native country, and a close attention to the political interests of the Germanic body;
points and principles to which he adhered with the most invincible fortitude: and if ever the
blood and treasure of Great Britain were sacrificed to these considerations, we ought not so
much to blame the prince, who acted from the dictates of natural affection, as we should detest
a succession of venal ministers, all of whom in their turns devoted themselves, soul and body,
to the gratification of his passion, or partiality, so prejudicial to the true interest of
their country.

{GEORGE II., 1727-1760}

RECAPITULATION OF THE PRINCIPAL EVENTS OF HIS REIGN.

The reign of George II. produced many revolutions, as well in the internal schemes of economy
and administration, as in the external projects of political connexions; revolutions that exposed
the frailties of human nature, and demonstrated the instability of systems founded upon convenience.
In the course of this reign, a standing army was, by dint of ministerial influence, engrafted
on the constitution of Great Britain. A fatal stroke was given to the liberty of the press,
by the act subjecting all dramatic writings to the inspection of a licenser. The great machine
of corruption, contrived to secure a constant majority in parliament, was overturned, and the
inventor of it obliged to quit the reins of government. Professed patriots resigned the principles
they had long endeavoured to establish, and listed themselves for the defence of that fortress
against which their zeal and talents had been levelled. The management of a mighty kingdom
was consigned into the hands of a motley administration--ministers without knowledge, and men
without integrity, whose councils were timid, weak, and wavering; whose folly and extravagance
exposed the nation to ridicule and contempt; by whose ignorance and presumption it was reduced
to the verge of ruin. The kingdom was engaged in a quarrel truly national, and commenced a
necessary war on national principles: but that war was starved; and the chief strength of the
nation transferred to the continent of Europe, in order to maintain an unnecessary war, in
favour of a family whose pride and ambition can be equalled by nothing but its insolence and
ingratitude. While the strength of the nation was thus exerted abroad for the support of worthless
allies, and a dangerous rebellion raged in the bowels of the kingdom, the sovereign was insulted
by his ministers, who deserted his service at this critical juncture, and refused to resume
their functions, until he had truckled to their petulant humour, and dismissed a favourite
servant, of whose superior talents they were meanly jealous. Such an unprecedented secession
at any time would have merited the imputation of insolence; but at that period, when the sovereign
was perplexed and embarrassed by a variety of dangers and difficulties; when his crown, and
even his life, were at stake; to throw up their places, abandon his councils, and, as far as
in them lay, detach themselves from his fortune, was a step so likely to aggravate the disorder
of the nation, so big with cruelty, ingratitude, and sedition, that it seems to deserve an
appellation which, however, we do not think proper to bestow. An inglorious war was succeeded
by an ignominious peace, which proved of short duration; yet in this interval the English nation
exhibited such a proof of commercial opulence as astonished all Europe. At the close of a war
which had drained it of so much treasure, and increased the public debt to an enormous burden,
it acquiesced under such a reduction of interest as one would hardly think the ministry durst
have proposed, even before one-half of the national debt was contracted. A much more unpopular
step was a law that passed for natural-izing the Jews--a law so odious to the people in general,
that it was soon repealed, at the request of that minister by whom it had been chiefly patronized.
An ill-concerted peace was in a little time productive of fresh hostilities, and another war
with France, which Britain began to prosecute under favourable auspices. Then the whole political
system of Germany was inverted. The king of England abandoned the interest of that house which
he had in the former war so warmly espoused, and took into his bosom a prince whom he had formerly
considered as his inveterate enemy. The unpropitious beginning of this war against France being
imputed to the misconduct of the administration, excited such a ferment among the people, as
seemed to threaten a dangerous insurrection. Every part of the kingdom resounded with the voice
of dissatisfaction, which did not even respect the throne. The king found himself obliged to
accept of a minister presented by the people; and this measure was attended with consequences
as favourable as his wish could form. From that instant all clamour was hushed--all opposition
ceased. The enterprising spirit of the new minister seemed to diffuse itself through all the
operations of the war, and conquest everywhere attended the efforts of the British arms. Now
appeared the fallacy of those maxims, and the falsehood of those assertions, by which former
ministers had established, and endeavoured to excuse, the practices of corruption. The supposed
disaffection, which had been insisted on as the source of parliamentary opposition, now entirely
vanished; nor was it found necessary to use any sinister means for securing a majority, in
order to answer the purposes of the administration. England for the first time saw a minister
of state in full possession of popularity. Under the auspices of this minister, it saw a national
militia formed, and trained to discipline by the invincible spirit of a few patriots, who pursued
this salutary measure in the face of unwearied opposition, discouraged by the jealousy of a
court, and ridiculed by all the venal retainers to a standing army. Under his ministry it saw
the military genius of Great Britain revive, and shine with redoubled lustre; it saw her interest
and glory coincide, and an immense extent of country added by conquest to her dominions. The
people, confiding in the integrity and abilities of their own minister, and elevated by the
repeated sounds of triumph, became enamoured of the war, and granted such liberal subsidies
for its support, as no other minister would have presumed to ask, as no other nation believed
they could afford. Nor did they murmur at seeing great part of their treasure diverted into
foreign channels; nor did they seem to bestow a serious thought on the accumulating load of
the national debt, which already exceeded the immense sum of one hundred millions.

In a word, they were intoxicated with victory; and as the king happened to die in the midst
of their transports, occasioned by the final conquest of Canada, their good humour garnished
his character with a prodigality of encomiums. A thousand pens were drawn to paint the beauties
and sublimity of his character, in poetry as well as prose. They extolled him above Alexander
in courage and heroism, above Augustus in liberality, Titus in clemency, Antoninus in piety
and benevolence, Solomon in wisdom, and Saint Edward in devotion. Such hyperbolical eulogiums
served only to throw a ridicule upon a character which was otherwise respectable. The two universities
vied with each other in lamenting his death; and each published a huge collection of elegies
on the subject: nor did they fail to exalt his praise, with the warmest expressions of affection
and regret, in the compliments of condolence and congratulation which they presented to his
successor. The same panegyric and pathos appeared in all the addresses with which every other
community in the kingdom approached the throne of our present sovereign: insomuch that we may
venture to say, no prince was ever more popular at the time of his decease. The English are
naturally warm and impetuous; and in generous natures, affection is as apt as any other passion
to run riot. The sudden death of the king was lamented as a national misfortune by many, who
felt a truly filial affection for their country; not that they implicitly subscribed to all
the exaggerated praise which had been so liberally poured forth on his character, but because
the nation was deprived of him at a critical juncture, while involved in a dangerous and expensive
war, of which he had been personally the chief mover and support. They knew the burden of royalty
devolved upon a young prince, who, though heir-apparent to the crown, and already arrived at
years of maturity, had never been admitted to any share of the administration, nor made acquainted
with any schemes or secrets of state. The real character of the new king was very little known
to the generality of the nation. They dreaded an abrupt change of measures, which might have
rendered useless all the advantages obtained in the course of the war. As they were ignorant
of his connexions, they dreaded a revolution in the ministry, which might fill the kingdom
with clamour and confusion. But the greatest shock occasioned by his decease was undoubtedly
among our allies and fellow-subjects in Germany, who saw themselves suddenly deprived of their
sole prop and patron, at a time when they could not pretend of themselves to make head against
the numerous enemies by whom they were surrounded. But all these doubts and apprehensions vanished
like mists before the rising sun; and the people of Great Britain enjoyed the inexpressible
pleasure of seeing their loss repaired in such a manner, as must have amply fulfilled the most
sanguine wish of every friend to his country.

ACCOUNT OF THE COMMERCE OF GREAT BRITAIN.

The commerce of Great Britain continued to increase during the whole course of this reign;
but this increase was not the effect of extraordinary encouragement. On the contrary, the necessities
of government, the growing expenses of the nation, and the continual augmentation of the public
debt, obliged the legislature to hamper trade with manifold and grievous impositions; its increase,
therefore, must have been owing to the | natural progress of industry and adventure extending
themselves to that farthest line or limit beyond which they will not be able to advance: when
the tide of traffic has flowed to its highest mark, it will then begin to recede in a gradual
ebb, until it is shrunk within the narrow limits of its original channel. War, which naturally
impedes the traffic of other nations, had opened new sources to the merchants of Great Britain.
The superiority of her naval power had crushed the navigation of France, her great rival in
commerce; so that she now supplied, on her own terms, all those foreign markets, at which,
in time of peace, she was undersold by that dangerous competitor. Thus her trade was augmented
to a surprising pitch; and this great augmentation alone enabled her to maintain the war at
such an enormous expense. As this advantage will cease when the French are at liberty to re-establish
their commerce, and prosecute it without molestation, it would be for the interest of Great
Britain to be at continual variance with that restless neighbour, provided the contest could
be limited to the operations of a sea-war, in which England would be always invincible and
victorious.

STATE OF RELIGION AND PHILOSOPHY.

The powers of the human mind were freely and fully exercised in this reign. Considerable progress
was made in mathematics and astronomy by divers individuals; among whom we number Sanderson,
Bradley, Maclaurin, Smith, and the two Simpsons. Natural philosophy became a general study;
and the new doctrine of electricity grew into fashion. Different methods were discovered for
rendering sea-water potable and sweet; and divers useful hints were communicated to the public
by the learned doctor Stephen Hales, who directed all his researches and experiments to the
benefit of society. The study of alchemy no longer prevailed; but the art of chemistry was
perfectly understood, and assiduously applied to the purposes of sophistication. The clergy
of Great Britain were generally learned, pious, and exemplary. Sherlock, Hoad-ley, Seeker,
and Conybeare, were promoted to the first dignities of the church. Warburton, who had long
signalized himself by the strength and boldness of his genius, his extensive capacity and profound
erudition, at length obtained the mitre. But these promotions were granted to reasons ef state
convenience and personal interest, rather than as rewards of extraordinary merit. Many other
ecclesiastics of worth and learning were totally overlooked. Nor was ecclesiastical merit confined
to the established church. Many instances of extraordinary genius, unaffected piety, and universal
moderation, appeared among the dissenting ministers of Great Britain and Ireland; among these
we particularize the elegant, the primitive Foster; the learned, ingenious, and penetrating Leland.

FANATICISM.

